US	13994502	R1876RUUQCFFFB	0140193375	251739920	Cosmic Consciousness: A Study in the Evolution of the Human Mind (Compass)	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Like a Who's Who of Gnosis	When I was very young, I had a moment of godblasted UNDERSTANDING.  Not merely an intellectual understanding, but an emotional and spiritual understanding.  I KNEW what the bleep is going on.  That moment (which lasted I still have no idea how long) informed my life.  At the time, though, I also had no idea where it fit in human experience.  I had no church (thank goodness).  I hadn't yet read all I've read since.  So, being as ELECTRIC as Whitman when he too had his \\"moment,\\" I went looking for others who could tell me more about that sweet slice of perfect peace and perfect safety and perfect connectedness.  One of the first books I found was this book.  I discovered that Bucke called my moment Cosmic Consciousness, but that it had and has many names over thousands of years.  In the East, it was what we Westerners translate as Enlightenment.  In the West, it is Gnosis.  Enlightenment lives on in the East.  But in the West we have long been denied Gnosis by our churches.  I can see why.  If we all have direct access to the Godhead and Complete Understanding, then we don't need churches.  Bucke gave me the names I sought, those who knew what I knew, and each name widened out my intellectual understanding of what I had experienced.  I still look for those who've had \\"my\\" moment and can speak of it with clarity.  This is why months after reading Ki Longfellow's [[ASIN:0307346676 The Secret Magdalene: A Novel]] I am still shouting about it.  If I'd been able to read Longfellow's book long long ago, I'd have known a great deal about the seminal moment of my life, long long ago.	2005-10-02
US	13994502	R3RMVAXKLRQJY1	1878424068	872041235	The Nature of Personal Reality: Specific, Practical Techniques for Solving Everyday Problems and Enriching the Life You Know (Jane Roberts)	Books	5	30	31	N	N	Socrates would turn cartwheels of joy	No philosophy on earth, and I've read a lot of the stuff, comes near the cohesiveness of Seth.  Whether Jane Roberts found him deep in her psyche or whether he was truly a separate entity speaking through her from an alternate reality makes virtually no difference.  What matters is the material and the material is first rate, rock solid, and mind expanding.  Whether you're into cutting edge quantum physics or the purest Gnosticism, Seth knows of what he speaks.  Not only knows it, but speaks of it in the most breath-takingly practical terms.  There isn't any body of work I can think of that will turn your head round faster, as well as your life and your joy, than meeting Seth...whoever or whatever or wherever he is.  I'd bet anything that Ki Longfellow in her miraculous [[ASIN:0307346676 The Secret Magdalene: A Novel]] is familiar with Seth.  Her book is full of his kind of \\"knowing.\\"  I do know her Mary Magdalene's mentor is called \\"Seth.\\"  Might be a coincidence, but I don't think so.  Do yourself a favor.  Read Seth and understand your Self.  Read Longfellow.  Understand Gnosis.	2005-09-25
US	13994502	R1YD4II5OAE86K	0439784549	162568542	Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince (Book 6)	Books	2	19	27	N	N	A crusty old lover of fantasy and myth reports:	Well, I tried.  Perhaps you have to come on these books fresh-faced and dewy. In other words, innocent of all that has come before.  And so much has come before.  I fully confess the last time I thought my face looked \\"fresh\\" was about thirty years ago.  And perhaps you have to love words more than many do now.  The names of characters, of places, of whole peoples, made me retch.  Only slightly, but there was certainly a small gag reflex.  Muggles and Quidditch and Dumblebarf, and whatever.  Hogwart itself makes me blench.  Hogwart?  For poetry's sake: why?  (Because it makes the little ones giggle?)  No, I shall retire from the field.  Harry shall never hold any kind of sway in my heart.  Tolkien, on the other paw, will ever stand tall.  And as for Gormenghast, oh my - now there's a world to enthrall the most untidy soul.  And run that name around your tongue.  This alone will tell you where you're going before you ever open the book. I imagine if I had not read all the Wizard of Oz books by the age of nine, I should think them badly written.  But I shall never think them badly imagined.  Plus - they are America's only home-grown fairy tales, and for that must be allowed shelf room in any self respecting bibliophiles homes.  But Harry?  What Harry shows me is our hunger for magic...at any age.  And this is a powerful thing to show people, so hurrah for J.K.Rowling, and for getting folks to read.  Me, I already read, and there's so much out there to still devour before I die.  So goodbye Harry.  To me, you're not worth what's left of my precious reading time.  But I _did_ try.      And now I shall wait to collect all my \\"this review did not help me\\" clicks.  I humbly accept my fate.	2005-09-08
US	13994502	RABFHX9DTGHCI	0425182894	912786438	Gunman's Rhapsody	Books	2	6	10	N	N	Pishposh and bleh	What did Parker do here for source material?  Watch Costner's \\"Wyatt Earp\\"?  Throw in a little \\"Tombstone\\"?  Buy into the myth Wyatt's \\"Josie\\" created for herself...and this is the woman (real name Sarah but who hid her Jewishness behind the name Josie) who gambled all his money away for over 45 years and then let him die of neglect.  I loved the spotlight review from back in 2001, that bit of delicious parody up there - spot on, matey.  In a few easy lines of perfect dialogue it captures the scope and style of this rather unimpressive book.  Doc Holliday is intro'd as a southerner merely by saying he's a southerner...and then proceeds to speak in a coarse uneducated way from then on.  Pooey on this book.  Daniel P. Smith who wrote the spotlight review would have written a much better book.  Probably has.	2005-08-23
US	13994502	R2RNMF40VDNH4F	0738705918	718267178	Gnosis of the Cosmic Christ: A Gnostic Christian Kabbalah	Books	5	36	47	N	N	The Inner Christ	Always looking.  Always hoping.  In this book, I've found the brilliant referential background to follow on after the powerful lessons, as well as powerful reading, I found in Ki Longfellow's [[ASIN:0307346676 The Secret Magdalene: A Novel]].  Tau Malachi's work is monumental in scope and understanding.  It seems to me that with people now writing (Longfellow, Malachi, Freke & Gandy, Pagels, others of course) such inspiring new myth and new Gnosis, that we're experiencing not only a turning back to what has been hidden for so long in favor of the madness of Literalist religion, but a turning towards a new world of Consciousness that might bring us through these dark days of Bush and his insane belief that the world ends soon, and he might as well be the one to end it.  (I've always thought of the Catholic Church as the antiChrist insofar as they are anti-Gnosis, which _is_ The Christ.  But now I just wonder if Bush isn't our boy.)  If you're looking for Christ, as He always hoped you would, look inside.  Christ is in you.  Gnosis is not a teaching, but an experience of Christ Consciousness.  In the East, you would call it the GodHead or Buddha.  It's the same experience.  Reading the books I've mentioned here will get you started looking.  The rest is up to you.	2005-08-16
US	13994502	R3MQ7O3LIGF5GT	0449005615	678550726	Seabiscuit: An American Legend (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Writing herself into our blood	As I said in my review of Funny Cide, I love horses.  It's the horse that brought me to this book.  It's the horse that enthralled me.  But what I came away with after all is said and done, is a glowing respect for the writer.  Under circumstances I can barely credit, Hillenbrand wrote something luminous, something far beyond a book about a horse and the men who followed him into history.  Hillenbrand is an artist.  The book is a product of her supreme artistry and is nothing short of honest-to-god literature.  Here's to it lasting as long as all good books last...as long as human culture lasts.      These days of publishing conglomerates making a quick buck from the topical or the briefly celebrated or \\"how-to\\" books---or those odious Rapture travesties---writing like this is thin on the ground.  When I see an example, I become a bit like Don Quixote...I become a crusader.  Hoeg's [[ASIN:0385315147 Smilla's Sense of Snow]], Longfellow's [[ASIN:0307346676 The Secret Magdalene: A Novel]], Martel's [[ASIN:184195425X Life of Pi]], Atwood's [[ASIN:0385490445 Alias Grace: A Novel]].  Hillenbrand's \\"Seabiscuit.\\"  I can't help myself.  I shout out their names 'til I'm hoarse.  (Hoarse.  Horse.  I knew I'd get back to horses.)	2005-07-30
US	13994502	R3HFE0IF9X970P	1400082781	850914802	The Laughing Jesus: Religious Lies and Gnostic Wisdom	Books	5	8	14	N	N	Pipped at the post	Came here to write a nice fat review about how terrific this book is, and look at that.  I mean, look at that last review.  That guy did all the work for me.  Oh well.  Can't say I'm disappointed.  These reviews take a lot of thought and effort.  So in conclusion: I'm with the last guy.  You know, what he says.  Hey, wait.  I can at least add my stars...and silent applause.	2005-07-30
US	13994502	R25FBJZ7V8FR53	0385315147	373503319	Smilla's Sense of Snow	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Let's make this short and sweet	Reading Smilla's Sense of Snow was like walking into a meat locker...white and cold and terrifying.	2005-07-28
US	13994502	R32OBRGPTRT1LQ	0842329129	46316172	Left Behind: A Novel of the Earth's Last Days (Left Behind No. 1)	Books	1	29	41	N	N	Leave these books behind....	Most people look for God when they've lost themselves.  By then, it's too late.  Because if you're lost, you'll cling to anything.  Embrace anything.  Especially anything that promises peace of mind, or of body, or safety from all the fears that beset so many people.  When you're lost, you'll give your very soul to be found.  And there's a whole lot of religions out there that want your soul.  Not to mention your money.  And your vote.  But if you go looking for God from a position of strength, then virtually no religion extant today can cage you, or bamboozle you, or steal your divinity.  If you look before you're lost, you'll find you need no redeeming, no saving.  Life is good.  Your life is good.  You are good.  The only bad things in life are those done in ignorance.  The only evil is ignorance.  And most of that ignorance is not knowing everyone and everything is connected to you, is part of you.  If you harm any, you harm yourself.  If you know that to be true, how can you do harm to yourself?  So, as I said, you are good.  Albeit, perhaps, momentarily in a position of ignorance.      In any case, it looks like the Christian publishing business is having a whale of a time.  Money flowing into its coffers with every new book promising the lost that they'll be found.  Most especially promising them they'll be part of the Rapture.  And all those things that hurt them, or anger them, or scare them---meaning one hell of a lot of other people---will not be part of the Rapture but will be left behind to experience hell on earth.  What kind of man or woman wishes this on someone else?  Wishes it on millions of someone elses?  The same kind of man or woman who could strap on a bomb and walk into a bustling bistro in Tel Aviv.  Or set up explosives to blow up London commuter trains full of people just trying to get to work, earn a living, feed their families.  The Rapture Seekers (who have no idea what Rapture actually means, not a single clue...simple souls that theyare) with their desire to see millions of other people left to endure torment simply because they are not Rapture Seekers, are not one jot different from those who blew up the Twin Towers.  They are all brothers and sisters united in ugly belief.  And their \\"gods\\" are nothing more than reflections of their sad lonely frightened minds.    As for the \\"writers\\" of this tripe, well, you've made them very very rich.  And that's rich.	2005-07-11
US	13994502	RU4E588UGQWP6	0842329218	726324360	Tribulation Force: The Continuing Drama of Those Left Behind (Left Behind No. 2)	Books	1	16	26	N	N	Leave this book behind 2 too...	Most people look for God when they've lost themselves.  By then, it's too late.  Because if you're lost, you'll cling to anything.  Embrace anything.  Especially anything that promises peace of mind, or of body, or safety from all the fears that beset so many people.  When you're lost, you'll give your very soul to be found.  And there's a whole lot of religions out there that want your soul.  Not to mention your money.  And your vote.  But if you go looking for God from a position of strength, then virtually no religion extant today can cage you, or bamboozle you, or steal your divinity.  If you look before you're lost, you'll find you need no redeeming, no saving.  Life is good.  Your life is good.  You are good.  The only bad things in life are those things done in ignorance.  The only evil is ignorance.  And most of that ignorance is not knowing everyone and everything is connected to you, is part of you.  If you harm any, you harm yourself.  If you know that to be true, how can you do harm to yourself?  So, as I said, you are good.  Albeit, perhaps, momentarily in a position of ignorance.      In any case, it looks like the Christian publishing business is having a whale of a time.  Money flowing into its coffers with every new book promising the lost that they'll be found.  Most especially promising them they'll be part of the Rapture.  And all those things that hurt them, or anger them, or scare them---meaning one hell of a lot of other people---will not be part of the Rapture but will be left behind to experience hell on earth.  What kind of man or woman wishes this on someone else? Actually wishes it on millions of someone elses?  The same kind of man or woman who could strap on a bomb and walk into a bustling bistro in Tel Aviv.  Or set up explosives to blow up London commuter trains full of people just trying to get to work, earn a living, feed their families.  The Rapture Seekers (who have no idea what Rapture actually means, not a single clue...simple souls that they are) with their desire to see millions of other people left to endure torment simply because they are not Rapture Seekers, are not one jot different from those who blew up the Twin Towers.  They are all brothers and sisters united in ugly belief.  And their \\"gods\\" are nothing more than reflections of their sad lonely frightened minds.    I expect I shall now be deluged by all you kool-aid drinkers clicking the \\"this review did not help me.\\"   Well, maybe it didn't help you, but it helped me.  I feel better getting it off my chest.    As for the \\"writers\\" of this tripe, well, you've made them very very rich.  And that's rich.	2005-07-11
US	13994502	R3V1VDQ4Q1ZB9I	0939040158	747046357	The Book Your Church Doesn't Want You to Read	Books	5	54	76	N	N	Growing up, a book at a time	What an amazing time to be alive.   Two thousand year old dogma is in its death throes and all around I hear terrified \\"believers\\" scramble to return to the certainties that once chained almost everyone to a wall inside a deep dark cave of Ignorance.  (Could it be Plato's cave?  It certainly could.)  Apparently being chained to a wall in a dark cave is comforting.  People can lean on walls in the dark.  They can hide in the cave.  There's no light to hurt their eyes.  They can lob PRAISE JAYSUS bombs out the cave entrance at their enemies - which, of course, are all those who no longer \\"have faith\\" in irrational mind-numbing ideas about reality, or who have irrational mind-numbing ideas about reality within \\"foreign\\" faiths.  Or worse, at those who have never had so-called faith at all.  But those walls are falling down.  The caves are crumbling.  You can tell from all the terrified fundamentalist literalist Christians.  And the equally terrified Muslims.  Look at them react all around the world.  Violence in the name of their cave God increases daily.  But that's to be expected.  Poke a big stick into a cave, and the mindless bats go nuts.  Or expect the rest of us to endure an eternal earthly hell while they float nekkid up to Hebbin.  Hope for their sakes when dat ol' Rapture comes, they've scrubbed all their naughty bits, had the decency to use a little deodorant and some mouthwash.  And lost a little weight.  Some things float better than others.    It's a little dangerous to live in times like these.  People can get hurt by brainwashed frothing fundies of all stripes.  But after our latest \\"Holy\\" Wars, should we survive them, and should the earth survive us, I think we might be headed for the return we all crave.  My idea of the return is a return to the individual's direct contact with God Consciousness.  No church, no priest, no Ayatollah, no monk, no Bush.  Just you and the sweet still voice within you telling you that you are loved and you are safe and this is just one holy hell of an adventure.  Enjoy it.  And leave your fellow man's beliefs alone.  They're his or hers and they have a right to them.  So long as they don't think they also have the right to blow you up for their Good GOD damn.    More books like this, please.  And more and more.  Until there comes a day when the world grows up.  If that's possible.  There IS something going on that's miraculous, this world is miraculous, but organized religion misses the mark about anything miraculous or spiritual by about the distance from one galaxy to the next.    Someone here said: go have a look at Gnosticism.  That's not a bad idea.  Even Elaine Pagels is doing it.  Lots of sincere seeking intelligent people are doing it.  Go read [[ASIN:0307346676 The Secret Magdalene: A Novel]] by Ki Longfellow.  It's the best and quickest way to the understanding of gnosis I can think of.  Plus it's a GREAT read.	2005-06-29
US	13994502	ROYB9MKPFXECR	0743260791	83547129	The Big Horse	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Right idea, wrong horse	Hmmm.  I'm a McGinniss fan.  Was bowled over by his handling of the material in Fatal Vision.  Ditto for The Third Brother...or whatever his book about Ted Kennedy was called.  So when I saw he'd written a book about the Big Horse--no hesitation.  I bought the thing sight unseen, reviews unread.  But, like another reviewer said, McGinniss is either tired of writing, or living, or once he'd chosen his trainer and his horse, he got tired of them.  The book just hasn't got that electric feel McGinniss usually delivers in spades.  And it's short.  Way too short.  Is this also reflective of his interest?  Now, if he'd chosen a better subject?  Funny Cide and Barclay Tagg?  And leaving out the \\"loveable\\" owners?  Maybe we might have had a book.  As it is, there's some lovely stuff here, but there's not enough of it.  I was slightly cheesed off.  A book called The Big Horse should be a big book about a really Big Horse.	2005-06-25
US	13994502	R2MXPNKSBOMJXW	0425200302	704362196	Funny Cide : How a Horse, a Trainer, a Jockey, and a Bunch of High School Buddies Took on the Sheiks and Bluebloods...and Won	Books	5	4	5	N	N	The five stars are for the horse	Loved horses when I was young.   Crazy about them, more like.  Somewhere along the way, I lost the feeling.  But then, in May of 2003 I found myself at a racetrack.  Long story, funny story, but nothing to do with this review.  Anyway, there I was at a racetrack and bedad, it was the Day of the Run for the Roses.  I liked Peace Rules, felt nothing for the favorite (can't even remember his name as I write this...a Frankel horse, and I trust Frankel about as much as I trust Bush), but somehow this delicate chestnut beauty pranced by, shining in the Kentucky sun like a hot new penny.  Funny Cide.  Funny Cide.  I saw him...and all of a sudden my love for horses came flooding back, filling up my blood and emptying my head.  As I write, it's stronger than ever...I still love Funny Cide.  I love him even though he seems to have decided he doesn't want to race anymore.  (I hope he understands the game.  I hope he's privy to some inside scoop that assures him he'll be \\"retired\\" somewhere nice and safe.)  I won on him that day.  I won on the Preakness.  By the afternoon of Belmont, a complete bog of total mud, I knew things would be different, so I boxed Funny, and still won.  He's a gelding.  I'm paying a lot of attention to those \\"charming\\" old buds who had the incredible luck to buy him.  Funny's never going to make them a dime at stud.  And when he stops winning races?  Like now.  What are our old fun buds going to do then?  Keep paying for his keep for no return on their charming old bud's moolah?  I don't think so.  No matter that the horse gave them the wildest ride of their lives, as well as earned them a pretty penny.  Me, I'm cynical.  I know what happens to race horses when they lose races.  So I'm saving every penny I can get, all the color of Funny Cide, to buy him before they sell him on down the line, a line that leads to allowance races, then claimers, then a slaughterhouse.  You do know, do you not, that people eat racehorses?  Even great racehorses.  The Japanese ate Ferdinand a few years back, like Funny, a winner of the Kentucky Derby.  Now back to the book.  It was a perfectly fine book.  It wasn't the brilliant [[ASIN:B00024DT7U Seabiscuit: An American Legend]] by Laura Hillenbrand.  (Is that her last name?)  I couldn't give a rip about the cute stories of the guys and their wives.  Not too interested in Santos either.  But all the stuff about Barclay Tagg, a man after my own crusty heart, and Funny, now there was the stuff.  I wish that when Joe McGinniss decided to do a book on a racehorse and a trainer, he'd chosen Funny Cide instead of Volponi.  I tell you, when it comes to my copper gelding with the big heart, I'm nothing but a sucker.  I bought the book just to have the spine in my bookcase.  Just to look over at it.  FUNNY CIDE.    These days, I'm getting kind of silly about Afleet Alex.  Once hooked, I stay hooked.  So I'll follow the loveable Alex straight through.  I also have a little thing for Pollard's Vision and for Evening Attire.  Not to mention Funny's half-brothers: Commentator who just won the Whitney and Flower Alley who won the Travers (with me watching!).  But Funny Cide is first all the way.    You might not believe this, but I'm way over 13.	2005-06-24
US	13994502	R2AYY8PZ5MBZQX	0684848910	114374014	The Templar Revelation: Secret Guardians of the True Identity of Christ	Books	3	19	27	N	N	3 stars for the entertainment...	and no stars for the scholarship.  Four or five years ago, I read this book with absolute delight.  It was just stuffed with things Pixel Studios could do wonders with...if Pixel were in the religion business.  Secret knights dashing about in great heraldic clothing, snorting horses in hoods, earnest Cathars, secret rides by night, blood oaths and cabals and bad guys wearing silly Catholic clothing...I had a great time.  Later, of course, I learned through some rather easy research that it was all a pack of hooey, as was \\"Holy Blood, Holy Grail.\\"  I do wish they weren't a load of horsewallop.  But they are.  I also wish it didn't matter if they were, or if they weren't.  The myths, based on other myths, are so much good fun.  It becomes much less fun when folks take it all for truths and get into spats over it.  Silly, really.  Worst of all is missing the spirit of the stories in the wild chase for \\"facts\\" which will never be found because this is all MYTH.  For instance, the Grail that many think of as the cup Jesus drank from at the Last Supper, or these days as the bloodline of Jesus and the Magdalene, is actually taken from ancient Celtic myths and legends of their owns gods and goddesses.  The Grail cup is a reworking of the mythic horn of plenty of Bran the Blessed, a Celtic god.  The Christian legend grew from this in the Middle Ages.  Since it did, the Grail could hardly go back to earlier Christian \\"history\\" and have anything to do with Jesus or the Magdalene.  I don't know why I enjoy specious books like this one, but I do.  For instance, I loved [[ASIN:B000S5R9QK JACK THE RIPPER: THE FINAL SOLUTION]] about Jack the Ripper.  Maybe because I just can't resist a ripping yarn.  Now, if people could only tell a ripping yarn from an actual event...or, whether they could or they couldn't, they felt no need to quarrel about it.  That'll be  the day.	2005-06-16
US	13994502	R3G3FQ7KNPJD32	0892819111	665638156	The Gospel of Mary Magdalene	Books	4	19	22	N	N	After the appetizer, a main course, please.	If your interest is gnosticism, as it is mine, and if that interest extends to the Magdalene, as does mine, then after reading LeLoup/Needleman's fine contribution to the Gospel of Mary Magdalene, run, do not walk, to buy Ki Longfellow's [[ASIN:0307346676 The Secret Magdalene: A Novel]].  In The Secret Magdalene, what you've only tasted here becomes a groaning feast.  Mary Magdalene is the \\"Woman Who Knew the All.\\"  Why is she called that?  What could \\"knowing the all\\" mean? Can you think of any other disciple or follower of Jesus Christ described as such? Can you recall a single pope achieving such heights?  Or a TV evangelist, no matter how popular?  It seems to me that if the Magdalene knew the all, I'd want to know what she \\"knew.\\"  After all, it's what Christ taught. After all these years of listening to what this church teaches and what that church teaches, I'm really _really_ ready to hear what Christ teaches.  Mary knew.  And her day comes round again.  Which is only Good News for us.  Read The Secret Magdalane.  You won't be disappointed.	2005-06-11
US	13994502	R3VL529179LAFF	0310205719	36906356	The Purpose Driven Life	Books	1	14	35	N	N	Why can't we have NO STAR?	God doesn't _want_ anything from you.  God isn't a person.  God isn't even a Being.  The concept of God is so far beyond our everyday egoic comprehension, books like this are laughable.  That is, if there were any laughs in them.  They're not funny.  And the idea that God has a Plan for you is not funny.  And it's not comforting.  It's terrifying in its childishness.  God is not your Big Daddy.  God is not watching you.  If there's any need for saving, it's a need to be saved from manmade gods like this one.  For heaven's sake, Jesus never taught any such thing.  No mystic ever teaches any such thing.  Ideas like this spring from the addled heads of fearful controlling people...poor things.  And poor us for listening to them.  If you really want to get an inkling of God and your eternal unchanging place therein, read [[ASIN:0307346676 The Secret Magdalene: A Novel]] by Ki Longfellow.  Or [[ASIN:0609807986 The Jesus Mysteries: Was the \\"Original Jesus\\" a Pagan God?]] by Freke and Gandy.  Or Elaine Pagels [[ASIN:0394502787 The Gnostic Gospels]].  We really should all grow up and look around.  We live in the Kingdom if we only knew it.  And God has no plan other than a magical dance of joyous experience.	2005-06-02
US	13994502	R2ZFS9FJAF2L5B	0385513755	315416156	The Da Vinci Code: Special Illustrated Edition	Books	2	9	13	N	N	Why do I do this to myself?	How long has this book been out? How long have I managed to avoid reading it?  So then what happens? A quiet evening at a friend's house and nothing to read, I cave in, I crumble. I must read. I am a reader. I read cereal boxes. I read receipts. So I read \\"The da Vinci Code.\\"  To make it a complete treat, it's the Special Illustrated Edition.  Oh joy.  This man does not need a review from me. He's made his millions no matter what I think. But here I am anyway, soon to be pushed out of sight by all the other reviews coming along after me. Ok. Calm down. First, take all the deepy darky \\"mystery\\" away (Grails, bloodlines, secret societies, Leonardo's paintings) and what we have here is a mediocre thriller that could have been written by any number of jobbing hacks and sold in hundreds of airport lounges all over the world. Flat, dull, short chapters for ever shorter attention spans...where is Agatha Christie when you need her? Dame Agatha could have taken this whole thing and made the puzzle of a lifetime out of it. I'm not even going to bother with the code and the Templars and the French who call Jesus greatgreatgreatgreatgreatgreat-grandpap and as for Leonardo, I leave the poor man in peace. Besides, whole tomes have been written in rebuttal. Are still being written in rebuttal from all angles. Nope. What I get out of all this is the terrible need we each of us have to touch something meaningful again...something our churches have long denied us, or have lost themselves over the long years of playing politics with people's hearts--not to mention, souls. We are so needy we make a sort of icon out of a bit of hack work, talk about it endlessly. But what the hey. Brown's doggerel is sending a lot of people on journeys they might never have taken. They're looking for God again. They're looking for the Goddess. One place to find Her is in a book I cannot praise highly enough: Ki Longfellow's \\"The Secret Magdalene.\\" If Brown's efforts lead to books like this book, I forgive his every hackneyed word.ve his every hackneyed word.	2005-05-31
US	13994502	RW756B58RONZX	0316184136	844504752	The Complete Poems of Emily Dickinson	Books	5	9	11	N	N	After all this time...	here is a voice undimmed.  A voice so rare it's no wonder that the life lived behind it was as it was.  Perfect voice, perfect life.  Like others here, I too see there's no need to \\"review\\" a thing like Emily.  I merely take this opportunity in this new medium to state that Emily lived in Gnosis...this is her mysterious subject.  Here is where she becomes seemingly impenetrable...until you know her terms and her Terms, and then--she stands revealed as the Mystic she was and is.	2005-05-30
US	13994502	R2MOS6P0AX321E	0679724532	275081924	The Gnostic Gospels	Books	5	19	26	N	N	Come gentle reader, rethink your myths	If someone so obviously sincere and so obviously gifted as Elaine Pagels can look again at what she once also so obviously embraced without question, surely we all can.  Each of us is unique.  Each is here to experience Life.  We've come from somewhere, and someday we shall be going back.  In our short span of time it seems criminal to spend it believing only what others believe, thinking thoughts others have thought before us.  Even more devastating to the human spirit is to be cowed before Popes or Ayatollahs or Presidents...politicians to a man.  Socrates said: the only thoughts that count are a man's (or woman's) own thoughts.  Here is Elaine pushing slowly out into the depths of original thought.  All power to her.  And when she gets there she'll find the water is safe and warm.  Mystics from the beginning of time have tried to tell us this...but those listening either cannot hear, or hear instead a way to forge a religion in which they themselves can shine, linking it Law by Law into a Cage for the Human Soul.  If you would go further with gnosis which is the direct experience of God, I sincerely recommend reading [[ASIN:0307346676 The Secret Magdalene: A Novel]] by Ki Longfellow.  Longfellow is swimming far out into the deep.  As for Elaine, I expect to see her doing the butterfly soon enough.	2005-05-26
US	13994502	R133UZOXYS4HK8	0440136482	598516960	Holy Blood, Holy Grail	Books	2	8	12	N	N	Better late than never...	I read this book when it first came out, whenever that was.  Years ago. Back then I didn't know my elbow from a hole in the ground when it came to the Christian religion.  Disclaimer: I am not a Christian nor do I care to be.  On the other hand, I am deeply interested in Gnosticism.  So in the intervening years I studied everything I could about early Christianity, Judaism of two thousand years ago, the development of the Catholic Church, and so on and so on.  If I'd picked up Holy Blood, Holy Grail two years ago I might well have seen it for what it was...as someone else here quipped: a huge conspiracy theory with no more basis in fact than Bigfoot.  (I'd bet on finding Bigfoot before the bloodline of Mary Magdalene and Jesus Christ.) Of course, all power to Dan Brown and taking a terrific idea and writing a rather ordinary thriller around it.  He's certainly made his millions out of the idea. And he's tapped into a worldwide yearning for the Goddess, meaning Mary Magdalene.  Understandable.  In any case, I'm on a mission here.  I just read The Secret Magdalene by Ki Longfellow and if you really want a great read about the Magdalene and the man she called Yeshu, plus delving deep into what the heck they were all about in the first place, I'd buy that book if I were you.  The \\"secret\\" of this Magdalene is not something so easy as being the bride of Christ (ancient symbolism, all this) or having his children, or even being the Beloved Disciple (which she was)...no, the secret is the original teachings...long before the Church hid them from you knowing no Church that wished to hold great power could get far with Gnosis and finding the God within.  Longfellow's Magdalene is the most wonderfully realized companion-teacher-philosopher-beloved disciple-\\"woman\\" I've ever encountered.  She is unforgettable. Just like the Goddess who will not be silenced.	2005-05-11
US	13994502	R3BPLWHPNJWJ8C	0944344585	455650073	The Gospel of Mary of Magdala: Jesus and the First Woman Apostle	Books	3	26	44	N	N	A question, please?	Admired this book.  Enjoyed it.  But why does the author assume Mary is from Magdala?  This bothers me.  If in all her obvious research, she's found proof of Mary having anything at all to do with the little town of Magdala I'd like to know what that is.  Magdala might not even have been the name of the town at the time.  Magdala comes from a root word meaning tower.  The name Magdalene, with its obvious reference to a tower, could have come from any number of sources.  The one that springs to my mind is Magdal-eder, She of the Temple Tower...which would connect rather well to a sect around at the time led by a Mariamne, called \\"priest.\\"  To decide Mary was born in a small Galilean fishing village called Magdala is, well, to be blunt, sloppy scholarship.  Not that it might not be true, but that it's so much accepted as true by Ms. King, she uses it in her title, thus making it appear true.  This makes all the rest of her work somewhat suspect to me.  So I had to settle for three stars.	2005-05-08
US	13994502	R1TCJC80PYX0OR	0140064842	264926159	Legs	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Prose reads like Chandler in the shower...	It fairly sings.  What's not to love about Legs?  He's selfish, he's beautiful, he has style to burn, he's amoral, he's a one-off, and he dies in the end.  Break my heart, why don't you.	2005-05-07
US	13994502	R1C87L74M19D13	1592573452	968487098	The Complete Idiot's Guide to Mary Magdalene	Books	5	21	34	N	N	Just what's needed	Mary Magdalene has come a long way since the bad old days of prostitution and weeping all over Christ's feet.  We won't even discuss why prostitution exists in the first place...we'll just leave men to their needs, and then allow them to debase those who give them what they need, shall we?  People really are odd.  But as I was saying, the Magdalene has come a long way...and now it seems she might even be the mother of the children of Jesus.  Although, if Jesus is God, aren't we all his children?  Never mind that.  Here we are, with a Mary Magdalene who begins to be all sorts of things to all sorts of people...and it's getting so complex, not to mention messy, it seems we need a guidebook to keep track of it all.  And thank goodness, here's that guidebook.  Who was the Magdalene anyway?  Will we ever know?  Even more importantly, who is she today?  It's not really so much what she was that matters, but who she's becoming.  As ever, we need our myths and in these days of rejecting the Stern and Judgmental Father, we're turning to the Mother.  Hot damn...we're seeking the Goddess again.  In the nick of time too.  And since we need guideposts to take us back to Her, this is a damned good one.  A must on everyone's Magdalene shelf.  My shelf now holds this book, and about ten others...all chosen with great care.  One of those others is Ki Longfellow's [[ASIN:0307346676 The Secret Magdalene: A Novel]] which I shall keep bleating on about until it gets read by everyone looking for a Magdalene that looks like THE Magdalene.	2005-05-05
US	13994502	R1QJ5K98PFS7E7	0142002798	435397103	Mary, Called Magdalene	Books	2	9	13	N	N	I have to agree with the last reviewer...	This is one of those big fat books that usually works by overwhelming the reader.  Once you've invested so many hours and so many pages, it becomes a snowball effect.  You just keep rolling on.  The writing is, at best, serviceable.  The imagination involved less so.  It seems that Ms George, making what I imagine is a very good living cranking these things out, just looks for the best subject at the best time, and then goes to work with her shovel.  Sorry, to sound a bit cruel...but there's so much better out there.  First and foremost, a novel I just read which has me running around waving my arms about it.    But when I find something like this, I can't help it.  Ki Longfellow, whose book is called [[ASIN:0307346676 The Secret Magdalene: A Novel]], takes the same material (sort of) and makes lasting literature out of it.  Not only that, but it's full of blazing ideas and profound moments of \\"gnosis,\\" which is basically the deepest truest mystical experience.  Jesus and the Magdalene, Simon Magus and Philo of Alexandria---these people not only come alive, but they sear themselves into your brain and your heart.  For the handling of Judas the Sicarii alone, the book is worth every moment spent on it.  I really can't recommend it highly enough.  Sorry, Ms George, I did want to like your book.	2005-05-03
US	13994502	R3SYKQAVD9DHXN	060960581X	395300413	The Jesus Mysteries: Was the "Original Jesus" a Pagan God?	Books	5	15	20	N	N	Here's to you, boys!	I must have read every book these two blokes ever read...and after reading them, if I'd then written a book, this is the book I would have written.  Perhaps nothing like as well, but the intention and conclusions would have been entirely the same.  Good grief, to think I could have spared myself five years of this fat book and that blindingly obtuse book if I'd found this little beauty first.  On the other hand, having read all those books, I know where Freke and Gandy got their information, I know it's rock solid, and I know the early Church \\"fathers\\" knew all this a long time ago.  What they did was try and bury it.  But the early letters they sent each other acknowledging the various godmen who existed then, and whose existence went back for a few thousand years, make it very very clear they spent quite some time and a lot of thought working away on how to get rid of these contenders, how to debunk them in the eyes of their new converts...and how to do it quickly.  It wouldn't do for the hoi polloi, the new followers of the new Christianity, to begin making comparisons and asking questions.  One of the more convoluted, not to mention thoroughly dishonest, ways they had of refuting the extant godmen like Persia's Mithras and the Greek Dionysus and Osiris of Egypt was teaching that Satan knew the real GODMAN would come one day in the form of Jesus Christ, and so planted these earlier phoney godmen throughout history and nations to confuse things when the true godman, namely Jesus, came along.  It's not amazing how many bought into this little trick.  People would do the same thing today, and _do_ do the same thing today.      Freke and Gandy know their stuff backwards and forwards.  They're the little boy standing in the crowd when the Emperor walks by.   \\"No clothes!\\" they could be shouting.  Or, in this case, \\"Jesus is wearing borrowed clothes!\\"  The real point is: it doesn't matter.  All the godmen from the beginning of godmen (and a few godwomen too) are symbolic of powerful psychological truths.  As we continue to argue over whether one particular godman is the One and the Only Son of God---leaving the rest of us exactly where and made of what?---we miss the beauty of the psychic truth.  So hurrah for Freke and Gandy and hurrah for Gandy and Freke.  I'll tell you, if I was in Blighty right now I'd look 'em both up and stand 'em to a round of the best of the best in the best of all possible pubs.    And not to forget to say that if you'd like to experience this wonderful information dressed up in style and in beauty and told as thoroughly compelling story, go on and read [[ASIN:0307346676 The Secret Magdalene: A Novel]] by Ki Longfellow.  It's my latest fave rave, and I would imagine both Gandy and Freke would love this Magdalene.  I know I do.	2005-05-02
US	13994502	R1YOWHJ6X7W6X4	0968601405	865805341	The Jesus Puzzle. Did Christianity Begin with a Mythical Christ? : Challenging the Existence of an Historical Jesus	Books	5	41	53	N	N	Five stars for just being out there...	I spent ten years coming to the same essential conclusion as Doherty.  Being a non-Christian, then and now, I went in without bias.  In other words, it was all right with me if there really had been a Jesus.  And it was all right with me if there had never been an actual Jesus.  The existance or non-existance of a man, any man (or for that matter, woman) did nothing to color my own idea of ultimate reality...something I've been chewing on since I was a wee lad.  And I mean a very wee lad.  I find much to inpsire me in quantum physics, since these days it's in the field of quantum physics where the big questions are being asked.  As we all know, this used to be the purpose of philosophy...but nowadays, physics and philosophy are melding into each other like smoke into fog.  But Earl Doherty is made of different stuff.  I have no idea if he's into guantum physics, but I do know he's a rationalist...and all power to him.  He wants to know the \\"truth.\\"  And not be fed some namby pamby postmoderistic: well, everything's true, man.  Or nothing is true.  Or what is truth?  (Didn't Pontius Pilate ask that of Jesus?  I do wish those two had sat the heck down, had a glass of wine or three, and talked that question over half the night.  I'd love to read _that_ gospel.)  In any case, Doherty, being a supreme rationalist, and no fool, brings to the table an enormous reserve of intellectual vigor, and an even more enormous reserve of patience.  His is the kind of mind that can really get down to work.  I admire that.  I admire his work.  I think he's much more right than wrong.  I've read a lot of the same things he's read and have come to most of the same conclusions.  The world needs this kind of spiritual house cleaning.  Human beings need to wake up.  You'd think by now we'd have grown out of a need to have Big Daddy for a god.  You'd think by now we'd begin getting that REALITY is vastly more complex than any of our childish religions deem it.  But I'm afraid we're in for along haul as primitive fear-response religions go through their death throes.  Not to mention the death grip of those who make big bucks and hold vast power through organized religion: popes and ayatollahs and presidents and such.  In any case, here's Doherty in the vanguard.  He and his book are a breath of fresh air.  Great, say I.	2005-05-01
US	13994502	RKPH6SHFEIN38	0879757043	652411153	The Life of Jesus (Great Minds)	Books	5	18	28	N	N	Hold on there a minute...	This is one of the very first attempts at a real Jesus, one who speaks to us through himself, and not through one of the many churches who shout his name...thereby drowning all thought.  It's superbly written by a leading Hebrew scholar of his day.  I gave it five stars for two reasons.  One.  To try to reflect its worth more accurately than the above review.  Two.  It bloody deserves it.	2005-04-29
US	13994502	R3EWS2T96936ML	1879181037	228962299	The Woman with the Alabaster Jar: Mary Magdalen and the Holy Grail	Books	3	27	33	N	N	A very nice try...	A nicely thought out book, passionate in its response to our need to recognize the feminine in our spiritual lives.  But what always astounds me in our search for \\"truth,\\" (damned elusive Pimpernel) is our blindness to the great truth staring us all in the face from the first moment any of us ever questions our own religion, or our neighbor's religion.  I know this.  I was subject to the same belief-blindness when I first began my quest to know God...or at least Jesus.  The blindness is simply this: all these stories are MYTH.  I know.  I know.  Many of you think myth is just another way to say: lie, to commit a falsehood.  Wrong.  Myth is one of the most powerful words/tools in any language.  Joseph Campbell tried to tell us all this.  But Christians appear to be amongst the only people on earth who can't face their deeply symbolic stories as anything but literal truth.  (For which we have so many early Church Fathers with so many early agendas to thank.)  Myth tells the ultimate in truths about the state of being human.  In myth is woven all that we believe about ourselves, and that we hope for ourselves: as individuals...and as an entire race.  This book is Ms Starbird's myth. And I like it very much.  It's not mine since I don't need there to be an actual Jesus or an actual Mary Magdalene who were actually married and had an actual child.  It's more than enough for me to know that Jesus = Christ = Cosmic Consciousness.  And that Mary = Bride of Christ = the body coming to consciousness through Christ.  The child can only symbolize US.  We are the Grail.      This is all Gnostic teaching.  You can find all this by a careful and open-hearted reading of Gnostic texts, which very much include the four canonical gospels.  (Elaine Pagels is trying to tell us all this without going too far out on her own establishment limb.)  But still, Ms. Starbird's plea for Mary as the Bride is sweetly sung.  If it weren't so tied to the literal, it would soar higher.      Now, if you want some real red meat about Gnostic ideas, some profound scholarship,  and some storytelling on the order of the master story-tellers, you could do much worse than go read something I just stumbled across: Ki Longfellow's [[ASIN:0307346676 The Secret Magdalene: A Novel]].  For me, the best of the best.	2005-04-17
US	13994502	R2BGA628C7F1EJ	0802714498	376783371	The Pagan Christ: Recovering the Lost Light	Books	4	59	78	N	N	A story is worth a million discussions.	Following the advice of Socrates: \\"an unexaminied life is not worth living,\\" I read all I can get my hands on for years now.  But so much of what passes for religious writing has an agenda, usually made obvious from the first page.  It's either for or against Christianity.  If it's for, it's almost always an apologia.  If against, it often strays way too far from psychological truth.  But I've been searching for the source of Christianity.  I want to know what excited people all those years ago.  And this book, like the work of Timothy Freke and Peter Gandy, is somewhat of a revelation.  Not that that I didn't suspect some such might be the case (or something very like)...after all, so much of it is obvious if one does NOT have an agenda, but still--to have it laid out with chapter verse is so satisfying.  Of course, this is not to say I agree with Harpur completely.  I certainly don't.  But he's opening boxes that need to be opened.  It's been so long since people (of the West) understood their own myths.  It's been so long since they even knew they were myths, and not literal truths as both the Catholics and Protestants would have us believe.  By not knowing either of these things, few understand the deep symbolic truth behind the myth that drives their world.  If they did, life would be so much richer and \\"safer\\" and fulfilling.  Sad really.  Now, having said all this, the strongest way to get to grips with myth and its meaning is not in endless discussion--but in story.  Storytelling is our truest truth-telling.  Like silent movies used to, story speaks to everyone, not just scholarly types.  I recommend a book I just read, one that absolutely stunned me...[[ASIN:0307346676 The Secret Magdalene: A Novel]] by Ki Longfellow. This book takes material from everywhere and weaves together a spell-binding story about Mary Magdalene, Jesus, Judas, John the Baptist, Philo of Alexandria, Gnosticism, even Apollonius of Tyana, into a fascinating unput-downable tale of an astonishing woman (\\"who knew the All\\").  I can't recommend it highly enough.  Eat your heart out, Dan Brown.      And of course, I recommend Harpur's books, as well as Gandy and Freke.  Dandy stuff.	2005-04-10
US	13994502	R2SQRRP0XRJIPH	0975925539	871866639	The Secret Magdalene	Books	5	183	187	N	N	A living breathing thinking Mary Magdalene...	Never read anything quite like this.  Thought Nikos Kazanzakis in his \\"Last Temptation of Christ\\" was fairly daring when he wrote the usual story of Christ--but made Mary Magdalene and Jesus, if not quite lovers, then tempted.  Thought various scholars who put forth the idea that Mary Magdalene was the Beloved Disciple were on to something.  Thought those who actually posited she was the disciple John \\"himself\\" were also on to something.  But this book, with its astonishing scholarship combined with truly masterful storytelling has, as they used to say, blown my mind.  It's all from Mary's point of view.  And this Mary is a real woman.  She's an extraordinary person worthy of the extraordinary man called Jesus.  A brilliant woman.  A thinker.  A questioner.  She even has a sense of humor.  And so does Jesus!  Add to this the exceedingly clever weaving of historical facts, some obscure, some very obscure, some known by everyone--or at least we think we know them, until they're presented in this new and startling way, making the mind leap through ahas! and oh dears! and my gods!  You think as you read: parts of this could be true.  Great heavens, all of it could be true, it could really have happened this way.  It's so plausible, so well thought out.  And the stories based on the gospels!  Each and every one of them are turned inside out so that we see them from a completely new vantage point and in a truly different and exciting way.      The \\"secret\\" of this Magdalene is not something so, by now, utterly expected, as Mary being the bride of Christ (ancient symbolism, all this) or bearing his children, or even being the Beloved Disciple (which she was and is)...no, the secret is the original teachings.  The secret is the Gnosis that the Church has long hidden from us knowing no Church that wished to hold great power could get very far with the individual being allowed direct access to the God within. (What?  No priests?  No Popes?  No ministers?  No rules and laws?Never!)  Longfellow's Magdalene is the most wonderfully realized companion-teacher-philosopher-beloved disciple-\\"woman\\" I've ever encountered. She is unforgettable. Just like the Goddess who will not be silenced.    What a feast for the mind.  What a treasury of ideas.  But the best of all is that this whole book is not only a character study of a stunning human being, it's the study of the birth of Gnosticism.  Gnosticism is what was taught first, before Christianity as we know it today.  It seems to be what Jesus Christ actually taught and what the later Church tried to hide from us.  Time and again I've attempted to \\"get\\" what it is the very early Gnostics believed...and why.  This book lays it out so clearly even I can grasp it.      But maybe best of all is the story.  It's a page turner.  It's compulsive reading.  Did I like it?  I absolutely loved it!	2005-04-05
