US	14337050	RGE812Y71B4AD	0439358078	667539744	Harry Potter And The Order Of The Phoenix	Books	3	1	6	N	N	Yikes! I don't know......	870 pages??? Doesn't that seem a little long to anyone here? I can't read books that are over 500 pages for the most part, or it loses my attention. It is great credit to JK Rowling that she was able to keep me reading this long. But even though The Order of the Phoenix was filled with action and drama, it seemed to go a bit slowly in some parts to me. I'm reading the HP series to see what everyone likes about them, and I must admit I can see the appeal. They do seem to draw you in, especially to people like me who love fantasy. But I just think that she needs an editor, and she needs to stop using those annoying capitol letters every time someone is talking loudly. I was very upset when Sirius died near the end of the book, because he was probably one of the most interesting characters and I didn't see any reason why he had to die. I think Rowling is just trying to make the series darker now that her readers are getting older. So on the whole, I did like it, but I can't say it was a great book. Too many flaws. But it's one of those you're just supposed to read for pleasure isn't it? Well, for that, it's definitely a good read. Just make sure you have at least five hours you can dedicate to reading first!	2005-09-25
US	14337050	R2R0JAU69QSLAG	0689854137	778756000	1: Flame (Book of Sorahb)	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Slow going	This book definitely had promise as the start of a series, but in my opinion, it took to long to set up the plot. It is a 300+ page book and the first 200 pages are setting everything up so the action can occur. It also took me a long time to start liking the characters. I disliked the peddler, Kavi, from the start, and towards the middle of the book I began hating him. It was only in the last chapter that he did something good. As for Jiaan, he was probably my favorite character. He actually seemed to have some motivation and actual problems. He reminded me a little of Taran in the Prydain Chronicles. Soraya I found totally intolerable in the first half of the book. It was only when she encountered the desert tribe that she actually seemed like a person. By the end of the book, I was definitely rooting for her though. I thought it was interesting that the enemies of Farsala weren't portrayed as being terrible people. That intrigued me. The whole set up reminded me a little of when the Romans conquered Britain. Has that sort of feel to it, like it might be true, almost. So, I'd say it has promise, and hopefully the next book will be better.	2005-09-25
US	14337050	RU7AZMNTI5CI8	0385731531	994415339	Conspiracy (The Grace Mysteries)	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Not bad, but more for a younger crowd.	I read this book because I really like Historical Fiction, and I was hoping for a different kind of book. Instead of only reading about royalty, I wanted to read about the other people. I thought it was a good book in that way, and the plot wasn't bad, although it was pretty easy to figure out who was behind the accidents. I guess it was designed more for younger kids, like the 9-13 range. It's just that it was pretty obvious plot-wise and aside from that it was just your standard historical fiction book. So, I think the younger set would like it, but teens might want to look elsewhere for a good Historical Fiction book.	2005-09-25
US	14337050	R2WAG76O8IULD1	0451457897	921168810	The Glasswrights' Apprentice	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Finally! A realistic female heroine!	I was very excited to finally get my hands on this book, as I have heard some good things about it and have been waiting to get it from the library for ages! At first, I had a tough time getting into it. In the first few pages, Rani came across as being sort of a spoiled brat, not caring about other people at all. I was slightly disappointed in her because of this. But at the same time I felt sorry for her when she was treated terribly by the guildmasters. <br /> Rani lives in a country where everyone is divided into classes. There is the royalty and priests, the soldiers, the guildsman, the merchants and the homeless Touched, casteless ones. Rani is a trader whose parents bought her way into the glasswrights guild. <br />  On the day the heir to the throne is to be announced, Rani sneaks into the cathedral to watch, and sees something she will regret forever. As the rites are being performed, Rani sees an archer aiming at the prince and shouts a warning. The prince turns around, directly into the path of the arrow and is assassinated. Rani, terrified, flees the cathedral, and heads back to her guildhouse. They won't open the door for her, so she sneaks in, only to witness the destruction of the guild by the soldiers who have somehow found out that it was someone from the glasswright's guild who commited the murder. <br /> After she sees her fellow apprentices tortured and beaten, she realizes she must save herself (though in the rest of the book, she feels that she abandoned her friends and is filled with inner turmoil) and hides in the street like the touched. She meets a Touched child named Mare who is leader of a gang, and Rani becomes Rai (the amount of syllables in names determines class) and joins the band. <br /> However, this is not to be for long. Soon, Rani is swept away in the intrigue and danger raging through the city as the king searches for her. Eventually, she winds up hiding in the least likely place: right under the royal nose, in the palace as the First Pilgrim, again with an assumed name. <br /> However, Rani's one surviving brother seems to have had something to do with the murder as well and Rani feels more and more torn about the right thing to do, especially after she befriends the next prince in line, Halaravilli, or Hal. <br /> This was a very unusual fantasy and one that I really enjoyed. I would recommend it to those in search of a more realistic, gritty plot and heroine, and to those who want a lot of character development. I can't wait to read the rest of the series! <br />	2005-09-08
US	14337050	RUHY878QD74V4	044100945X	392803311	First Truth (Truth, Book 1)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Not bad for your standard fantasy	This was sort of your standard fantasy. The heroine, Alissa, goes on a magical quest, once she discovers her true heritage as a Keeper(?). She sets off alone, except for her bird, Talon, but soon heads right into trouble, in the form of a steep ravine and a sprained ankle. However, Strell, a minstrell from the plains who has just lost all his family, finds her and takes her in. They don't get along at all, but are traveling in the same direction, so they decide to go together for a while. Soon however, Alissa starts having strange visions and fainting spells, and meanwhile, another person takes over her body to talk to Strell, who becomes increasingly worried. <br /> Alissa dreams of her fathers death several years before, and of Bailic, the evil man now in charge of the Keep. However, despite the warnings of Useless (the spirit who takes her body at times), Alissa is determined to continue. She and Strell become friends, though they still squabble a lot, and he agrees to come with her. Some of this is from Strell's perspective, so you get a lot of how he views Alissa. <br /> Anyway, finally they reach the Keep and meet Bailic, disguised as minstrells. At first everything goes well, but soon they are embroiled in deep magical trouble that neither of them understand, which could result in both of them losing their lives! Things get even worse when Bailic uses them against eachother and Alissa almost loses her magic... and her life! How will they survive and get out of the Keep? Read to find out!	2005-09-08
US	14337050	R1JECLWMVEG63U	074342221X	555906109	Beauty Sleep	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A new twist on Sleeping Beauty	This was a great version of sleeping beauty. I must admit, I've never really liked this particular fairy tale, but this one changed my mind. The heroine, Aurore, was likeable and funny, and by the end of the book, I really wanted her to have a happy ending. <br /> <br /> Aurore was cursed at birth by Jane, a lady in waiting, to die at the age of 16 by pricking herself. Her mother's friend managed to change the curse so that she would sleep for a hundred years and then wake when someone kissed her. However, in this version, it doesn't have to be true love's kiss. So Aurore grows up and has adventures and life continues as normal. Oswald, possibly the most intriguing character, and Aurore's cousin, is her confidant and friend. <br /> <br /> Then, after her 16th birthday, strange things begin to occur in the kingdom. Catastrophes so strange that the conflicting spells on Aurore are blamed. She feels she must leave the kingdom to save her people, and so sets of for the enchanted forest, La Foret. Before she runs off though, Oswald catches her, and there is an interesting conversation. I won't give it away here though. <br /> <br /> So she steps into La Foret, and finds a young prince by the name of Ironheart. He is looking for a princess sleeping in the wood that sounds frighteningly like Aurore. But that can't be, because she's not asleep yet! Things get more confusing when they make it to the center of the forest and Aurore pricks herself and falls asleep, only to be awakened moments later by Ironheart. But how can this be? Has she gone forward in time? And IS Ironheart her true love, or could it be someone else, someone she never suspected? Read it, it's a great version!	2005-08-27
US	14337050	R28KBZU0MRD80W	0440229308	24397004	Goddess of Yesterday: A Tale of Troy	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Pretty good retelling	This is a good book if you are a fan of the Greek myths, especially if you have already studied the Trojan War. It is told from the point of view of Anaxandra, an island girl, first abducted by the king of another island and then adopted by King Menelaus of Sparta after her island was ransacked. When this happens, she is forced to pretend to be the dead king's daughter to survive. For a time, she lives happily with Menelaus, with only the jealous Helen to worry about. Then Menelaus leaves Sparta and Helen runs off with Paris. To save Hermione, Menelaus daughter, Anaxandra pretends to be her instead and takes her place with the Trojans. In Troy, she makes a few friends, and begins to feel torn about the coming war. As much as she hates Helen, she doesn't want the Greeks to win because then her Trojan friends will be killed. In the end, she makes a daring escape from Troy to bring Menelaus's son back to him. She then sails to Lemnos, which is neutral, to stay with her friend Eueneus. I thought it was good because it took a more objective stand (or at least a different perspective) on the Trojan War. <br />	2005-08-24
US	14337050	R271F3QAYVPTPR	0618378235	215129408	The Princess, the Crone, and the Dung-Cart Knight (The Squire's Tales)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Not quite up to standard	Although I absolutely love all of Gerald Morris's books so far, this one was probably my least favorite. I'm not quite sure why, since it had most of our old favorite characters like Terence and Sir Gawain. But I guess I thought Sarah wasn't a great main character. She was just a little too annoying at times. And also, there wasn't quite as much humor in this book as in the previous ones. Definitely no romance, if you're interested in that sort of thing. Anyway, it was still very good and definitely worth reading, especially for fans.	2005-08-24
US	14337050	R10AFHL2TX35EX	1582349908	725310764	The Goose Girl (Books of Bayern)	Books	5	4	6	N	N	A new kind of fairy tale	I really liked this new kind of fairy tale! For once in these new books, the plot is nice and simple, but still holds your interest. You find yourself rooting for the likeable characters, and in some cases, even the unlikeable ones. <br /> The story begins with the childhood of princess Anidori of Kildenree. She has the gift of speaking to animals, especially birds. But she is misunderstood and awkward among people as a result. When she turns 16 she is betrothed to the prince of the neighboring country and journeys to marry him. However, her handmaiden Selia, betrays Ani and there is a revolt among the soldiers. The ones loyal to Ani are defeated and she is forced to flee for her life. <br /> She winds up at a cottage in the woods which belongs to a friendly woman and her son. She pretends that she is a native of the country by covering her give-away yellow hair and changes her name to Isi. Afterwards, her new friends give her a ride to the capitol so she can find work. <br /> A bit later she becomes a goose girl and makes friends with some of the other children there. She also sees a lone soldier get bucked off his horse one day and helps him. His name is Geric, as she soon discovers and they quickly become good friends, or maybe something more? <br /> Before she has the chance to find out, he tells her that he \\"can never love her as a man loves a woman\\" and that they shouldn't see eachother anymore. Naturally, she is heartbroken. Still, in the back of her mind is her plan to tell the king the truth about his sons fiancee. Selia's men are still chasing Ani and she is forced to run into the woods to escape them. After that, she comes clean with her friends and tells them the truth about who she is. To her vast surprise, they agree to help her. <br /> <br /> So they march toward the bridal estate. The prince's wedding is only days away. When they arrive there, Ani pretends to be Selia's sister to get into the palace. Then, she presents her case to the king. She alsosees the prince for the first time, and is shocked as to his identity. I'm not going to tell you who he is though. :) Needless to say, her case is not strong, and the king decides to leave her with the much more persuasive Selia (+ entourage) to sort things out. Selia tries to murder Ani, who desperately cries out for help.  <br /> Unbeknownst to them both, the kings men have listened in on their conversation, and now know the truth. However, Selia will not give up so easily. How will they defeat her and will Ani get her happy ever after? Read to find out!	2005-08-23
US	14337050	R2CIBNSLDSFH7Y	0439139597	667539744	Harry Potter And The Goblet Of Fire (Book 4)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Better	I am only reading the Harry Potter series as a sort of social study, if you will. :) I'm curious to see what kids (and adults) these days are so into. So far I have read the first 4 books. They do keep getting better, I will say that, and in my opinion, this book was the best one so far. I have never read a book quite this long before, but somehow, the 753 pages did not drag all that much. Sure she definitely could use a better editor and some scenes could go or be cut, but on the whole, it hung together very nicely. I liked the small plot variation in this one, because I must admit, it does get old having the same plot all the time. This book takes a much more serious tone than the previous ones, and ends with the return of Voldemort. However, I found it more believable than the others. I am looking forward to getting the next two books and completing my \\"experiment.\\" Hope this is helpful to the one or two people in the world who have not yet read these! ;)	2005-08-22
US	14337050	RY4WXQBJA4F6H	0812549333	576398746	Wind from a Foreign Sky (The Tielmaran Chronicles, Book 1)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Very Good	It took a while for me to get through this book, but it was worth it! It is slow going in a few spots, but for the most part is pure action/adventure with a dash of romance! I must say, I'm looking forward to reading the rest of the trilogy(?). Gaultry was a likable character, once you got used to her, and very realistic. Martin was very interesting - I didn't feel like I got to know him well enough to decide whether I liked him or not. Hopefully he will feature more in the next book. The plot of the book was good and plausible (well, as plausible as you can get in fantasy) with one country, Tielmark, having split from Bissanty. Bissanty obviously wants it back and the perfect opportunity is coming - the three hundred year anniversary. Gaultry and her sister Mervion, plus the unfathomable Martin, must intervene with the evil chancellor's plans and save Tielmark before it is too late!	2005-08-12
US	14337050	R2UIFJOX3KPB21	0061056294	481848404	Kingmaker's Sword (The Rune Blade Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Not bad, but it didn't grab me	I thought this book was okay. It had a good plot and story line. It just seemed to drag on and on! Usually I can read a book of this length in a day or two at most. This took me a week to muddle through! I just don't understand why. The writing didn't flow for me at all. <br /> <br /> The basic plot is that Kian, a slave boy who can't remember anything of his past, runs away and is found by Cullin, a Tyran noble. They realize that Kian is his long lost nephew (ha! to those of you who thought \\"son\\"). Cullin adopts him and they live happily ever after...for seven years. Then Kerridwen comes into the picture. She is a girl that Kian healed years earlier, and now they are bonded for life, though they are not thrilled with the idea. Kerri is from Skai and she is looking for a lost prince because Skai is being threatened. Then, for the next 200 pages, they run all over the countryside being chased by a variety of people, from the general of the Maidun who practices dreaded blood magic, to some of their own people. Kian has a Celi Rune blade as does Kerri. The problem is, his is supposed to belong to Kerri's prince. So they chase around some more, Cullin dies and we all miss him, and gradually Kian and Kerri become closer. Until Kian finds out that he is really the lost prince. Wow, like we didn't see that one coming for at LEAST 200 pages! Then they have one last battle with the terrible general, defeat him, and THEN they all live happily ever after. <br /> <br /> I just don't get this book. It had a lot of potential, a LOT, but it did not flow at all. And this Celtic stuff is my favorite kind of fantasy. So it was a big disappointment.	2005-08-06
US	14337050	RD2YHX97XML3K	0061057045	591885108	The Conjurer Princess	Books	4	2	2	N	N	I am fast becoming a V.V.V.  fan!	This is only the second book I read by Vivian Vande Velde, and it was very good. It is a quick fun read, but don't let that throw you off the deeper point - the cost of magic, and the responsibility that comes with having it. <br /> <br /> Lylene's sister Beryl is kidnapped on her wedding day by an evil bandit, who kills several people in the process. Furious, Lylene decides to learn magic in order to rescue her sister. However, the magician tries to trick her, and in the end, she winds up being able to duplicate any object she can touch. The catch is she becomes about 80 years old! She is able to wish her years off onto anyone that she can touch though. <br /> <br /> She leaves the magician and soon takes up with two bandits. They decide to help her, not that they have much choice after they have the whole county after them, but well.... And the rest of the story is about how she rescues her sister. Except at the end there is a twist that NO ONE sees coming, so I won't give it away. The ending is sad, but satisfying and has a good moral. I just want to know what happens to Lylene and Weiland!	2005-08-06
US	14337050	REPWIN8TP1PWE	0525471936	972683992	The Wishing Moon	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Interesting...	I have never read anything quite like this book. And I mean that as a good thing. It is a new take on the Arabian Nights stories, and a very good one at that. <br /> <br /> Aminah, a young beggar girl, goes to the princess to ask her for help. Their fathers knew eachother, so she has reason to hope. However, the princess scorns her and throws and old lamp at her, which later turns out to be Aladdin's lamp. (Aladdin is the princess's husband) Aminah gets three wishes every month. However, her Jinni likes to trick people, so she has to watch out what she wishes for. <br /> <br /> Soon she is living like royalty, with her own cook and a boy named Idris that she picked up off the street living with her. However, she finds her wealth hollow. She now has an endless supply of money, so she uses her wishes to help other people in need. Meanwhile, the vengeful princess realizes what she cast away and is searching madly for Aminah. <br /> <br /> Eventually, Aminah finds a young man in need of help. He turns out to be a man that had been kind to her once when she was poor. So Aminah is happy and her relationships with her cook (Barra), Idris, Jinni and Hassan (the kind baker) slowly develop. However, because of the way she acquired the lamp, she must hide her past from those she loves. But this takes a terrible toll. Idris runs off when he overhears something by accident. Will she ever find him again. And she loves them all, but who will she choose, Hassan, Idris or Jinni? And then the man she loves is captured by the princess and she must find a way to get them all out of the city. <br /> <br /> I really enjoyed this book. The characters were very believable and well developed. Aminah was a likeable character and I literally cringed when she made a bad choice. However, it has a happy ending and a good moral. So I say, fantasy lovers, read it! Based on the two other reviews, this book isn't getting enough attention!	2005-08-06
US	14337050	R35P6667PYKFEG	015204616X	120914957	The Grand Tour	Books	4	4	4	N	N	As good a sequel as can be expected.	I must say I LOVED Sorcery and Cecelia. It is one of my favorite books which is why I wasn't expecting the sequel to be as good. It wasn't. Oh, it was still a good fantasy novel, but the plot seemed to drag and was a bit confusing in some parts. Cecy, who was so much fun in the previous book, is overshadowed by Kate. Kate seems to have all the entries in the book and all the good parts. Cecy only gets her share towards the end of the nearly 500 page novel. The plot was still good and exciting near the end, but it did seem about 100 pages too long. Still, if you are dedicated Kate and Cecy fan, read it since it is the sequel, but definitely don't start with this book. It is fun, but not anywhere near as good as the first.	2005-08-02
US	14337050	R2VS5S628GNCYO	0439136350	667539744	Harry Potter And The Prisoner Of Azkaban	Books	4	1	1	N	N	The best so far	First I must say that I am only reading the Harry Potter series to see what all the fuss is about. I am not a fan or anything like that, so I guess I can say my opinion is unbiased. This book was the best one so far. It seemed much more interesting and there was more going on than in the first two books. The characters are finally starting to become interesting. However, I find it very annoying that Rowling uses the same basic plot over and over in her books. To anyone who is paying attention, it is plain that this is the same book as the other two, just written with a different problem and characters. It is enjoyable, if not great. The writing is just not as wonderful as everyone seems to think. Anyway, I do have one thing to say in defense of Harry Potter. IT IS NOT DEMONIC WORSHIP OR WHATEVER IT IS YOU CHRISTIANS THINK IT IS. I am not a Christian, I will say that quite openly. I don't know what all the fuss is about with the Christians. I know many fundamental Christians and they all LOVE Lord of the Rings. I do not get the difference. They are both fantasy about trying to defeat evil. Is it because Tolkien was Christian? I don't know, maybe Rowling is Christian too. I just want to say that this book will not poison your children's minds. If you don't want your children to read this book, it means you aren't secure enough in your faith to face anyone who disagrees. It's as simple as that. And people don't seem to get that these books are FANTASY. It's made up - a story - we all know that.	2005-08-02
US	14337050	R3EE7Q9YRO0ISU	0152012001	275065800	A Hidden Magic	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Cute Story	This book was really cute. That's the best word to describe it. It is about a girl named Jennifer who falls in love with a handsome and arrogant prince, Alexander. He falls under a spell because of his vanity and she sets out on a dangerous quest to save him. Soon she meets up with a wizard named Norman who decides against his better judgement to help her. However, something dreadful happens and he is stuck in the shape of an old man. Finally, after many trials involving giants, dragons and evil witches, the prince is freed. However, Jennifer has changed her mind about him and decides that good looks aren't everything after all. Norman is eventually returned to his real shape and they all live happily ever after. It is a good quick read with humor and likeable characters. Kids will love it!	2005-08-02
US	14337050	R1HEIHHHET1BSH	0385730721	278667968	Snakecharm: The Kiesha'ra: Volume Two	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Nowhere near as good as the first	I don't know what happened after the first book. I really loved Hawksong, but Snakecharm took some effort to get into. The first 100 pages really dragged. After that it picked up a little, but still not enough. I found some parts hard to believe. e.g. that a falcon could take on the form of a dead hawk and people wouldn't notice a difference. A personality difference, if nothing else? Well, I guess one of the problems with this book is the narrator. Zane is just a boring narrator. Danica was interesting to listen to, and had some personality. Zane just comes off flat and boring. That bothered me. The plot wasn't bad once you got into it, but the book is 150 pages and 100 are set up. So I guess after Hawksong I was expecting better.	2005-07-26
US	14337050	RKXZ2VUTOXD96	0439064872	667539744	Harry Potter And The Chamber Of Secrets	Books	3	2	6	N	N	I don't know...	Well, I decided to give this series another try after originally reading the first two. I didn't particularly like them before, but now I think they're enjoyable, if definitely standard, fantasy. I read this book in a couple of hours, and it was a very easy read. The plot is much like the first book, but maybe that's intentional. I like the fact that there is a mystery involved in these books, but the suspense is not built up anywhere near enough. I don't get it, really. I don't understand WHAT everyone sees in these books. I think they're just a fad. We'll see what happens in 30 years... Anyway, I'm determined to finish the series now, just to keep up with things, but I know they get progressivly longer, so I don't think that's a good sign. Anyway, I don't know, maybe I'm missing something, but I just don't get it...	2005-07-26
US	14337050	R33KWOAPYRF9R5	0618150749	370985430	The Sherwood Ring	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Great book!	I read this book after reading (and loving) The Perilous Gard. Although not quite as good as that book, it is still DEFINITELY worth reading for any historical fiction or fantasy fans. I loved it and couldn't put it down! <br /> <br /> The book weaves together the stories of several different characters, some from the revolutionary war and some from modern times. Peggy is a young orphaned girl who goes to live with her uncle in the family's historical home. She meets up with an Englishman named Pat, one of whose relatives fought in the war, but her uncle kicks him out of the house upon hearing his name.  <br /> <br /> The other four main characters, Eleanor, Dick, Barbara and Peaceable, are all ghosts. One by one they appear to Peggy, each telling a bit of their story. Gradually,a pattern begins to appear. Somehow, the story of the ghosts is related directly to Peggy's own life and problems.  <br /> <br /> There is a good bit of romance in the book too, if you like that sort of thing. But it's a sweet and gentle kind, not overdone or sappy. I really liked seeing the characters (Dick/Eleanor, Peaceable/Barbara and finally Pat/Peggy) get their happy endings. The characters aren't developed as much as they could be, but the story is still great with an unexpected twist at the end. Not as good as The Perilous Gard, but close!	2005-07-22
US	14337050	R1Z3PFM2XEBFDY	0590353403	667539744	Harry Potter And The Sorcerer's Stone	Books	3	3	10	N	N	It was okay...	My mother read me the first two books in this series when I was about 8 years old. After that we agreed that we didn't really want to read the rest of the series. I just wasn't grabbed by the story at all.<br /><br /> Now I am nearly fifteen years old. Throughout my life, most of my friends LOVED Harry Potter, and I could never understand why. No one will believe you if you say you didn't like Harry Potter. A few days ago, I decided to give the first book another try. (This was partially due to an experimenting mood since I had just made a deal with my friend to try a soda if she would try Indian food.)<br /><br /> Well, I finished it the next day, and it certainly wasn't BAD. It seemed sort of like a standard fantasy to me. What I don't understand is what made this book so special. There are thousands of good children's fantasy books out there... why this one? Maybe because it is set in our own world, with characters kids can identify with. I really don't know. It just wasn't that special to me. I enjoyed it, but I didn't love it. I just can't fathom what everyone sees in Harry Potter. And no offense to JK Rowling. I think it's a good first book. But it doesn't live up to the hype. I'm sorry... it just doesn't.	2005-07-21
US	14337050	RZNHP4X9158ZS	0373802056	720489435	The Wizard's Ward (Luna)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	3 and a half stars	I really don't know why I liked this book as much as I did. I usually like books that are a little less... well overdramatic. In some places the story seemed kind of set up, and I usually like a more SUBTLE romance, (esp. at the end) but I still wound up liking it overall. <br /> <br /> It starts of when the wizard's ward Maura finds out that she is the Destined Queen, and she must go on a journey to wake the Sleeping King so they can reclaim their country from the evil Hans and their death-mages. She has lived a quiet life previously, and is not thrilled with the news, so she wanders into the woods to ponder - and walks right into the midst of a battle between the Han and a band of Outlaws. Against her better judgement, she uses a spell to save the outlaw leader, and brings him back to her home. <br /> <br /> She and the wizard take care of the rude and jaunty Rath and nurse him back to health. They hope to have him accompany him on their journey (to find a map to the sleeping king) as a bodyguard, though they do not reveal the true nature of their quest. Maura and Rath do not hit it off, though there is some mutual attraction. You know where this is going. <br /> <br /> Well, the day before they are supposed to leave, while Maura and Rath are out, the wizard is killed by death mages and their house is burned. Rath still feels obligated to Maura, now more than ever, and so escapes the town with her and agrees to still accompany her on her journey. <br /> <br /> During the next weeks, Maura realizes that her initial distrust of Rath was unfounded, and a friendship of sorts developes between them. Each are more and more fond of the other, but hold back for different reasons. They have numerous adventures on the journey, from Maura being kidnapped by a band of renegade outlaws, to wolves attacking the campsite, to trapsing through enemy infested towns. When Maura reaches her destination and finds the woman with the map dead, Rath demands to know the truth. He doesn'tbelieve in her religion, and so it sounds like a bunch of nonsense to him, but against his better judgement, he still decides to go with her. <br /> <br /> They do eventually find the map, and start off towards the resting place of the sleeping king. Things soon get worse. Rath is captured by the Han and sent to the terrible mines, where he organizes a revolt. Maura tries to help him and arrives at the climax of the battle when she tries to protect him from the torture of the death mage's wand. The effort nearly kills her, but somehow Rath manages to revive her, and they make a narrow escape. <br /> <br /> Finally, after weeks of travel and hardship, they reach the glade of the Sleeping King, only to find it empty! The only thing there is a well, carved with a prophecy. Maura and Rath look into the well and realize... guess what? Rath was the Sleeping King all along, and Maura awakened his heart. Now their forbidden love is not forbidden any longer, and the book ends with a rather descriptive scene, which I didn't really appreciate. <br /> <br /> I still am not sure WHY I liked this book. It was fast-paced and full of adventure and romance (though not always the kind I like). I did like the way the point of view switched from Maura to Rath because it gave you insight into why they did the things they did. I love getting inside the characters heads! Anyway, although this is a fairly long book, it is still a fun, quick read. I would recommend it to 14-up only though, for a couple of bad scenes.	2005-07-19
US	14337050	R3BIIMI1KBFO	0689848919	680149957	Fever 1793	Books	3	0	1	N	N	A good historical fiction book	I  have read quite a few historical fiction books for kids, and I've eventually found that their plots are pretty much all the same. This is a bit annoying after a while, but I still like some of the books. Fever was good because it was about a time period in history that I've never read about before. <br /> <br /> The story's heroine is a young girl named Mattie who lives in Philadelphia in 1793. Yellow fever strikes the city, and her mother gets sick and orders her and her grandfather out of the city. They plan to go to a farm out in the country, but they never make it cause her grandfather falls ill (not with yellow fever) and they are kicked off the wagon. The rest of the story follows her adventures in and out of the city. She is also struck down with the fever, but recovers, then her grandfather dies during an raid on their house at night. She can't find her mother or her friend Eliza, the maid, and the city is nearly starving to death. <br /> <br /> Naturally this book has a happy ending. Mattie is the typical heroine of a historical fiction novel. Strong, with a few shortcomings, not content to let others make the decisions or to be treated like a girl. My favorite character was probably Mattie's \\"friend\\" Nathanial Benson. (at the end of the book it is hinted that they are engaged) He at least was interesting! But he is only in a couple of scenes, and at one point we go a hundred pages without hearing from him. Oh well, all in all, it is a good historical fiction and I would recommend it to most girls.	2005-07-19
US	14337050	REQ6NLFVFO0A0	0767906993	947714454	Geeks: How Two Lost Boys Rode the Internet Out of Idaho	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Geeks	I wasn't too thrilled when my mother told me to read this book over the summer. It didn't appear to be all that interesting, and since I have no experience with computers, and already a lot of experience being the outsider, I didn't see the point.     Well, the book wasn't exceptionally well written, and was even slightly boring in some parts, but I still enjoyed it. The reason is that I liked hearing what the actual kids had to say about being outsiders. It is a wonderful feeling to realize that other people have had the same sensations as you about not belonging. It makes you feel less alone. Not to mention the fact that Jesse was very eloquent about the way it feels.     I'm lucky. I have never been beaten up or badly insulted to my face, and I haven't had anywhere near as many bad experiences as these kids have. But it was good to finally hear someone addressing the issue of... well I don't know what to call it. I can't think of the right words. It's like being sexist, except against people who are different. I'll make up a new word and call it boxism. :)     The story was very inspirational, if not the best told one I have read. Against seemingly impossible odds, Jesse and Eric actually made something of themselves. Sounds familiar, huh? But this is actually a TRUE story. Everyone should read this book to learn something. If you've experienced this kind of mistreatment you should read it - it's a story you can identify with. If you have never experienced being an outsider, you should still read it to gain some insight into what it's like. And just because some people are different doesn't mean they need medication or social counseling, as other people seem to think!!!      I don't think I'm doing the story justice in this review, but words can't really describe it. Just read it - once you get past the intro, it's great. Even just to read how a real outsider feels.	2005-07-18
US	14337050	R3F35X8B32E8HS	0140366679	900054889	White Fang (Puffin Classics)	Books	2	2	8	N	N	I couldn't finish it	I had to read this book for a book club, but unfortunately, I couldn't finish it. I found it utterly boring and very slow. I made it about 70 pages into the book before I called it quits. Now, I almost never stop reading a book in the middle, but this book just wasn't worth it. <br /> <br /> First of all, there is no dialogue, which by itself makes the reading slow. Then, absolutely nothing HAPPENED in 70 pages. These two wolves have a litter, only one of which survives. That's it. In 70 PAGES!!!! I just don't have enough time to waste it on books like this. I'm not saying it's terrible, just that I found it boring. Since I was only reading it for pleasure, not assignment, I didn't see any reason to finish it. It might have gotten better towards the end, but I gave it 70 pages to grab me and it didn't.	2005-07-17
US	14337050	R296B4OK4IB2WM	0441909116	831855539	Work Of The Sun (The Green Lion Trilogy, Book 3)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Great end to the trilogy!	I really loved this trilogy, and this book was a perfect ending. I do wish we knew more about Gwenlliant, but I know there is another trilogy about her. <br /> In this book, Ceilyn returns from his life with the wolves, only to have someone try to poison him and Teleri immediately. Meanwhile, the protective Sidhe stone of Caer Cadwy, the Clach Ghealach, has been stolen by Princess Diaspad. All of the men of the castle suddenly go mad and run off on the adventures of their younger days. All, that is, except for Ceilyn.  <br /> <br /> He and Teleri set off in hot pursuit and soon meet up with Fflergant and Tryffin. Soon they arrive at the castle of ice that Diaspad has chosen as her stronghold. Ceilyn has a terrible fight with a griffon and is badly wounded. Then, inside the castle, Ceilyn and Teleri are isolated from Fflergant and Tryffin. Alone, they are forced to pass through a series of tests, only to find Diaspad at the end. Diaspad winds up unintentionally destroying herself using the Clach Ghealach.  <br /> <br /> Meanwhile, Fflergant and Tryffin have killed Diaspad's twisted son, completing their triumph. However, their problems are not over yet. Ceilyn's wound lays them up for several days, during which he must finally come to terms with Prescelli. Teleri and Ceilyn have a terrible falling out on their journey home, and afterwards Teleri falls deathly ill from the harmful influence of the Sidhe stone. The only thing that might save her is unthinkable for Ceilyn. I won't give away the ending, but it does tie up all of the problems from the last two books as well. A great ending! <br /> <br /> I really love Edgerton's characters in these books, especially Ceilyn. I identify really strongly with him and his inner turmoils and bad moods. Her descriptions are also wonderful and make you feel as if you are there, watching. And the plot is fast moving and mysterious. You also get an inside look at the villains. What more could you want?	2005-07-14
US	14337050	R6BVZS9TIVHLA	0441009077	459127178	Never After	Books	3	1	1	N	N	A lot of potential, but...	I was very excited when I got this book via inter-library loan. I sat down to read it immediately and found it an enjoyable, if very light, read. <br /> <br /> Like many of these \\"fractured fairy-tales\\" it turns the story upside down. But this book doesn't confine itself to one fairy tale - it combines five! If you mix together Cinderella, Sleeping Beauty, Rumplestiltskin, the Frog Prince, and the Princess and the Pea, this is what you get. <br /> <br /> The book is written in the third person, but changes perspective very often among the different characters. Princess Vevila starts the book by trying to escape from the stifling, adventureless, court life. She runs into her cousin Prince Althelstan who is looking for a princess to wake three sleeping princes in an enchanted castle, so that a girl he wants to marry and believes to be a princess (he must marry a princess) will wake up. On the way, they meet up with three renegade wizards of the University Recondite (something like that) who decide to accompany them.  <br /> <br /> When they arrive back at the enchanted castle, they are greeted by a furious fairy godmother. She explains that the three princes are really one prince that she divided at birth to protect. Later she sent the whole castle to sleep to protect him. She becomes so angry at their intrusion that she throws a spell at one of the wizards that causes him to speak only verses of plays. Vevila is locked up in a tower for a princess test (she must spin straw into gold) for three days before she is allowed near the princes. Needless to say, she is furious with this arrangement and tries various ways to escape. <br /> <br /> Meanwhile, a strange short man comes every night to her cell, and in exchange for unnamed favors, he spins the straw into gold for her. Sound familiar? Another princess turns up at the castle and is also tested. She has to sleep on a bed of twenty mattress, twenty feather beds, and twenty blankets. The fairy godmother hides a pea underneath to see if she will feel it. The next morning the poor girl is covered in bruises and complains about the uncomfortable bed. (actually, she kept falling off the bed all night) <br /> <br /> Finally things come to a head when Althelstan, the fairy godmother, and the three wizards are invited to a ball of all the eligible princes of the land for this lady and her two ugly daughters (and one beautiful step-daughter in disguise who recks their ball) <br /> <br /> Finally, Vevila, the only true princess, is allowed to wake the princes. Then Rumpelstiltskin (the mysterious little man) askes her to kiss a frog that turns into a prince. How will this all end? Well, everyone gets married of course! <br /> <br /> The reasons I didn't like this book were that the characters were very flat and undeveloped, and the plot had no serious or emotional aspects. It was basically a comedy. So it's a good light read if you like this sort of thing, but don't expect a great story.	2005-07-14
US	14337050	R32E6THIXW5YZT	0395971268	945167925	The Savage Damsel and the Dwarf (The Squire's Tales)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Hilarious King Arthur Retelling!	I absolutely loved this book! It is a retelling of the story of Beaumains (beautiful hands) the Kitchen Knight. Perhaps some of you are familiar with this story. The basic plot is that a young man comes to King Arthur's court to work in the kitchen. He has beautiful hands unused to hard work, hence the name. Anyway, one day a lady comes to Court to find a champion to rescue her sister who is besieged by the red knight. The kitchen boy is knighted and offers to go with her. She treats him badly throughout their journeys, though he often proves himself. At the end he frees and marries the sister and shows himself as Sir Gareth, younger brother to Sir Gawain. <br /> Well, leave it to Morris to mix this story up! First of all, Lady Lynet is helped on her journey by a mysterious dwarf, Beaumains is a complete dolt, the sister, Lady Lyonesse is a disgraceful cold-hearted flirt, and far more is happening than appears to be! The ending is delightfully satisfying and romantic, and I cracked up hysterically several times during this book. I finished it in one sitting! Definitely a must-read for King Arthur fans!	2005-07-04
US	14337050	R27BBK2CFFH549	0142402443	249940838	Water: Tales of Elemental Spirits	Books	3	4	7	N	N	Not bad	I don't really like short story collections, as I always find them hard to get into. I had the same problem with this book. The writing wasn't bad, and I even got into a few of the stories (the Mckinley ones) but I had a tough time finishing the book. I don't know. The stories were original and definitely worth reading for fans, but if you don't like water or Robin Mckinley, don't read it! I guess I thought it was just okay, and I probably won't reread it any time soon. And I don't plan on reading anything else by Dickinson.	2005-07-04
US	14337050	R3122OCK0LQ25T	0618190996	215938896	The Ballad of Sir Dinadan (The Squire's Tales)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Gerald Morris does it again!	I love all of Gerald Morris's books, but this is one of my favorites! Despite the title, it is a retelling of Tristan and Isolde. Now everyone knows that tragic love story -- but not this way! <br /> <br /> The story is told from Dinadan's point of view. He is the younger brother of the famous Tristan, but doesn't really know his brother. After his drunken father knights him, Dinadan leaves to go adventuring. During his travels, he meets his brother (who doesn't remember him). He realizes that the famous Tristan is really a self-centered idiot. He also meets the beautiful cruel Isolde. Dinadan learns a few life lessons on his travels, and also meets a spunky young lady with a terrible secret, who turns out to be the former handmaiden of Isolde. The ending is wonderful and quite unexpected, and everyone gets what they deserve. Althought it doesn't stick to the actual tale, it's still great fun for everyone!	2005-07-04
US	14337050	R1HNJK1PO8354B	067980112X	113567060	The Woman Who Rides Like a Man (Song of the Lioness Quartet, Book 3)	Books	2	8	11	N	N	I'm sick of Alanna!	Well, I wish I could love Tamora Pierce as much as all the other people seem to, but I can't. I started reading the Song of the Lioness quartet about six months ago. So far, I made it through 3 books. Once I finish the book, I feel no desire to go pick up the next one. None.  <br /> <br />Maybe the problem is Alanna. I don't find her a very realistic or likable character. First of all, her relationships with George and Jon drive me nuts! I'm all for romance in books and all that, and I've read many good ones. But there is absolutely no SUBTLETY in Alanna's relationships. Apparently, there is no such thing as the kind of love where you just really care about someone else. Once Alanna decides she does care something about anyone, she just goes and jumps in bed with them. I hate that!  <br /> <br />The other problem is that the plot is really... well, boring. I hate to use that word, because it's not exactly what I mean, but all Alanna does is fight a series of battles using magic and swords. I love spunky heroines, but this is pushing it! I mean, she can't ALWAYS win. And she seems far too perfect a character. She's modest, can do everything, is insecure enough for a typical romance, is really tough, and beautiful. I mean, what kind of a character is that? She has NO FAULTS!! The characters seem too contrived. You have the handsome, somewhat arrogant prince who loves her, the dashing dangerous thief who also loves her, but is more willing to let her be who she is. And the beautiful, talented, modest, young, fierce, warrior maiden. And the suave, handsome, evil, magician. I mean, come ON.  <br /> <br />So, I wish I could enjoy these books the way everyone else does, but I can't. I thought I would just provide a slightly different opinion for the readers.  <br />	2005-06-28
US	14337050	R123UTJOYW6FLP	0689860080	601203914	Dragonsong (Harper Hall Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	1	4	30	N	N	Couldn't finish it.	Yikes! I was excited to finally read one of Anne McCaffrey's books, but boy was I disappointed! I only got 60 pages into this one before I had to quit. I skimmed some of the rest of the book to see if it got any better, but nothing happened! And Menolly (aside from the great name) was really a nothing character! She just lets everyone beat her up and didn't do anything. When she finally runs away, it is by accident! And she had no personality! Uggh! Don't read this book! I would not attempt to read any others in the Pern series, especially if they are at all like this book.	2005-06-28
US	14337050	RZ8C0Y3IP89JN	0142401609	366425094	Wren to the Rescue (Wren Books)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Wren To The Rescue!	Wren to the Rescue is a great read! It keeps you hooked and after you read it, you'll run to find the sequels! I just finished reading it for the second time, and it was just as good as I remembered it. <br /> <br /> Wren, an orphan at Three Groves Orphanage, finds out that her friend Tess is really a long lost princess, hidden there because the wicked king Andreus wants to kidnap her. Wren is invited to come back to the palace in Cantirmoor with her friend. Unfortunately, the day after they arrive, Andreus strikes and Tess is spirited off to his stronghold in Senna Lirwan. Wren, being the spunky girl that she is, is not content to sit back and watch everyone else search. She uses a magic spell she saw to transport herself to the magic school, and from there decides to run off with a young magic prentice, Tyron, to rescue Tess. <br /> <br /> They decide to find the mysterious mage Idres Rhiscarlan, to see if she will help them. When she refuses, they set out on their own to try to prevent the coming war. After a while, they are joined by Connor, Tyron's friend and a prince. After many adventures, involving warrie beasts, secret passages, bridges, armies, thieves and chraucans, they make it into Senna Lirwan. <br /> <br /> Wren drinks from a poisoned stream and Andreus tries to take her, but Idres somehow pops back into the stream and saves her, turning Wren into a dog in the process! Poor Wren! But it doesn't seem to bother her all that much, though she is in danger of being a dog forever.  <br /> <br /> However, more problems soon come their way. Connor has a terrible secret, Wren's friends are captured, and she must find a way to rescue them alone AND get Tess out, before she becomes a dog for good! How does she do it? Read the book to find out!	2005-06-19
US	14337050	R3MYT9MKBAK9NS	0441006787	820879497	Song for the Basilisk	Books	3	4	6	N	N	Not one of McKillip's best	I have recently read quite a bit of McKillip's books, and I have liked or loved all of them. This one, however, didn't grap me. First of all, there were far to many disturbing descriptions of fire, burned houses, burned people. Unless you are a pyromaniac, I really don't think you would enjoy it all that much. However, it does describe a city under the grip of a tyrant very well. I also found the plot a little confusing. Normally, McKillip's books are written about unusual ides, they make you think. This book was your typical revenge story, written in a McKillip style.  <br /> <br /> Caladrius's (He has many names, but we'll call him that here) family was burned by the tyrant ruler in the city. You see, there were four ruling houses, Caladrius was from Tormalyne House, which was fighting with Pellior house, ruled by the Basilisk. Caladrius is rescued from the ruins and spirited away to an island where he learns music. He tries to forget his past, but by the time he reaches about 40, he can no longer hide from it. He goes searching for his forgotten identity, finds it, and then goes back for revenge on the Basilisk.  <br /> <br /> The ending isn't really clear either. I was left with too many questions. If you are a veteran McKillip reader and like all of her books, I would still recommend this as a pretty good, if tiring read. However, if you are looking to try a Mckillip book for the first time, I would recommend something clearer and lighter, perhaps The Changeling Sea (my all-time favorite of hers). Happy reading!	2005-06-19
US	14337050	R36QJ9C5VKUY8I	0152046151	973407263	Sorcery and Cecelia or The Enchanted Chocolate Pot	Books	5	1	1	N	N	It was the outside of enough!	This book was so funny! I believe I cracked up several times, greatly startling the people around me. I wasn't sure what to expect, because sometimes books written as diaries or letters become a little tedious, but this was excellent. <br /> <br /> The plot is somewhat confusing, but it involves an interesting and magical bright blue chocolate pot, not one, but TWO villians, two cousins, two friends and a lot of trouble! Kate goes to London for her Season, but her cousin and best friend, Cecy must stay home. However, things soon become interesting. Kate meets a mysterious marquis, her cousin Oliver turns into a tree and disappears, the marquis (Thomas) proposes marriage for the most ridiculous reason, and Kate's life may be in danger!  <br />  <br /> Meanwhile, Cecy is not exactly bored either. A new girl comes to town and none of the men can resist her, a strange man named James is following her around and Miranda Griscomb seems to be trying to kill her! Neither Thomas nor James will tell the girls what is really going on and they must figure it out themselves, resulting in danger, intrigue, hilarity and romance. Definitely a must read, and I plan to track down the sequel, The Grand Tour, as well.	2005-06-16
US	14337050	R3PJKVYBJCPZFZ	0441542158	476971623	Moon In Hiding	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The Moon In Hiding	First of all, I like the title of this book. It sounds exactly the way the book is written. You'll know what I mean if you read it. I really liked this book, so far the series has just kept getting better! I am planning to read the last book, _The Work Of The Sun_, as soon as possible.  <br /> <br /> In this book, Diaspad makes another try for power, this time trying to eliminate Fflergant and Tryffin. Ceilyn and Teleri must go against their principles of not using the old heathen rites to stop her. Afterwards this leads to awful consequences. The romance between Ceilyn and Teleri is really sweet, but sad. This book ends on another cliffhanger. The other thing I like about this author is how she tells you the story from many people's perspectives, but still in third person. Even the villian has her own chapters! I wouldn't suggest reading this book until you've read _Child Of Saturn_, because it won't make any sense to you and you won't know the characters or their backgrounds. However, this series is definitely a must-read for fantasy and Arthurian fans!	2005-06-12
US	14337050	R3B1CYHI5ZRDZZ	0441003273	483810306	Guardian's Key	Books	3	2	8	N	N	I could take it or leave it...	After reading all of the raving reviews on this page, I thought to myself, \\"Wow, this must be something special!\\" I went out and bought the book, but now I wish I hadn't wasted the money. It's not that I thought the book was terrible or anything, but it wasn't believable, didn't really have a sense of humor, and was just a let-down.     It begins with Dara, a serving maid who goes off to find the Crystal Keep to ask for whatever she needs to win the man she loves. Who in this case happens to be a prince, named Cav. Apparently, he loves her too, but his parents don't approve. Anyway, Dara finds the Crystal Keep, and is greeted by the cold and mysterious Guardian of the Keep, Lord Vanian. She is given a key and told to look for the Oracle, which will answer her question. Then she sets off to look for it.     The Keep is a long, long corridor with many doors leading into different worlds. Dara begins searching them and has many adventures with hostile creatures, She finds someone's lost wish, meets a demon named Gespry, and an old woman named Granny Good, and also has a few nasty encounters with Lord Vanian. Very gradually, the mysteries of the Keep become clearer to her. But it is only when Lord Vanian takes a poisoned dart meant for Dara that things start to get interesting (this was about 20 pages from the end) Dara has to take care of him and begins to take pity on him. At the end of the book, Dara gets her magical powers, finds the Oracle, and somehow or other decides to stay with Lord Vanian.     My main problems with the book were: the plot was very unbelievable and somewhat boring. Dara goes around into more rooms looking for things and being scared of Lord Vanian popping in on her. Gespry just goes around being scared, and Granny goes around being mysterious, like Lord Vanian. The other problem was the romance. Some people have said that they liked Lord Vanian, but I didn't, and I thought the romance was totally unbelievable. I mean one second she wants to goback to Cav, the next she is deciding to stay in the Crystal Keep with Lord Vanian forever. There is no communication between them of loving each other, so I thought it was a ridiculous ending. The other thing was the addition of a couple of somewhat graphic scenes that were really unneccesary to the story. Because of that I would only recommend it for teens or up. Anyway, I didn't hate it, and it wasn't a total waste of time, but I could take it or leave it.	2005-06-11
US	14337050	RKEF62C20VJM5	0152050523	410861931	The Enchanted Forest Chronicles: Dealing with Dragons / Searching for Dragons / Calling on Dragons / Talking to Dragons	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Not your ordinary princess...	Cimorene is not your ordinary princess. In fact, she's exactly the opposite: she's sensible, interested in magic and sword fighting, doesn't want to get married, and isn't afraid of dragons! These are some of the greatest making-fun-of-fantasy fantasy books ever! All fantasy lovers looking to get out of the old cliched plots will find their answers here! <br /> <br /> Book One: Dealing With Dragons. In which Cimorene runs away from home, becomes a dragon's princess, learns magic, helps solve a murder and defeat and evil wizard, and helps Kazul (the dragon) to become king. What a romp! <br /> <br /> Book Two: Searching For Dragons. In which Mendenbar (king of the enchanted forest) has some problems with wizards and withering plants, goes to find Kazul to see if dragons are responsible, finds Cimorene instead, hears that Kazul is missing, sets off to look for her with Cimorene, has misadventures with a pink teddybear-covered flying carpet, nearly gets killed, rescues Kazul, and marries Cimorene. Whew, I'm tired just reading it here! <br /> <br /> Book Three: Calling On Dragons. In which Morwen tells the story, wizards start to invade the enchanted forest AGAIN, they meet a gigantic rabbit named Killer which then turns into a blue donkey, the king's sword is stolen, Killer, Morwen, nine cats, Cimorene and Telemain (the magician) set off to find it leaving Mendenbar home, they have adventures with wizards, firewitches, poisonous plants, and magic mirrors, they find the sword and bring it back, the king is captured and locked away by the wizards, the wizards have put up a protective bubble around the castle so no one but them can get in, the dragons put up another bubble so the wizards can't get in, Cimorene takes her baby boy Daystar out of the enchanted forest to wait for him to grow up so he can take back the castle, and the book ends in a stand off. Whoa!  <br /> <br /> Book Four: Talking To Dragons. In which, Daystar is grown up, Cimorene sends him into the enchanted forest with a strange sword, he meets a lizard named Suz, he encounters a firewitch named Shiara who likes to be rude, they set off together, wizards pervade the scene with their terrible magic, nasty elves and firewitches try to kill them, they meet Morwen who gives them a cat named Nightwitch, they meet a young dragon who decides to accompany them, Shiara turns into a statue, Telemain directs them to travel through the Caves of Chance where they meet the terrible quozzel, find a key, and are buried under a rock slide, Kazul appears and tells Daystar how to break the spell on the castle, he breaks the castle, meets Mendenbar, finds his father, has the last battle with the wizards, and a happy ending (involving Morwen and Telemain) occurs. What a terrific finale! <br /> <br /> These are wonderfully funny books that everyone should read, and I wish there were more! (Incidently, I have heard murmured rumors of a fifth book, but don't count on it.) Well, what are you waiting for? Go read them!	2005-06-05
US	14337050	R3G30XGMVZT872	0060562250	846890982	Lemony Snicket: The Unauthorized Autobiography (A Series of Unfortunate Events)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Great Fun!	This is a terrific book to read - but don't attempt it until you've read all of the other books in A Series Of Unfortunate Events, or it won't make any sense! I think all of Lemony Snicket's books are hilarious and definitely worth reading. This one is yet another piece of the puzzle. All fans should definitely read it, it tells you things about the families and previous history of the other characters and gives you some tantalizing glimpses of what is to come... Warning though; it is confusing and is organized in 13 chapters of letters, photos and hidden messages. Quite a puzzle to read, so don't begin unless you have some time on your hands; you won't want to put it down!	2005-06-05
US	14337050	RW7YKAIS75V5D	044100315X	67186609	The Bellmaker: A Novel of Redwall	Books	4	0	0	N	N	The Bellmaker	The Bellmaker wasn't as good as Mariel of Redwall, but since it had all of the same characters I still thought it was a pretty good sequel. The plot is pretty much the same as always, the bellmaker (Mariel's father) gets a message from Martin telling him to take a few friends and go search for Mariel and Dandin. He leaves to find them. Meanwhile, Mariel and Dandin are in a lot of trouble in Southsward with a horrible tyrant called the Foxwolf or Urgan Nagru. Basically all of the plots in the Redwall series are the same, with a few variations. I read them because I happen to like the plot and it's just like reading any other series. You should read the books for the likable (or evil) characters, the adventure, the songs, the food descriptions (they make me ravenous) and of course the accents! I didn't think it was the best one I've read, but it was still pretty good. Definitely give it a try if you are a fan.	2005-06-04
US	14337050	R1H2CB90Y3XOYM	0439554799	890779868	The Chanters of Tremaris #1: Singer of All Songs: Book One In The Chanters Of Tremaris Trilogy	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Musical Fantasy?	I'd never really thought about fantasy being based on music before, but the idea is very interesting. In the land of Tremaris, all the nine different kinds of magic, or chantment, work using songs. The heroine, Calwyn, is a young ice priestess. She has always been restless, but never really thought of going anywhere out of the walls around Antaris until the day she finds a stranger lying on the path. He is badly injured and she brings him back to the temple with her to be healed. <br /> <br /> The stranger's name is Darrow and he found Antaris by accident while fleeing from his enemy, Samis. He and Calwyn sort of become friends, and everything still seems fairly peaceful, until Samis reaches Antaris. Forced to flee, Darrow has to jump in the river and be carried out of Antaris, with a little help from Calwyn. Suddenly, Calwyn realizes that she wants to get out of Antaris and follows him in the river, almost drowning in the process. She and Darrow begin to travel together to find a way to defeat Samis and prevent him from becoming the Singer of All Songs and ruling all the chantments in Tremaris. They decide to try to gather one of each kind of chanter to stop him, but this plan soon seems hopeless. Samis already has five of the nine and there don't seem to be many chanters around anymore. <br /> <br /> One of Darrow's friends is killed by Samis, though they do pick up a few other friends along the way. Calwyn continually saves Darrow's life, but is never sure whether she can completely trust him. In the end of the book, they find Samis about to become the Singer of All Songs and must stop him without all of the powers together. There is a twist though, and the interesting part is finding out how they do it. <br /> <br /> The characters were good, the plot was good and fast moving, and there was a little romance beginnng which will probably be continued in the next book. I wouldn't give it five stars simply because I didn't love it. I don't know why, and I'm lookingforward to reading the next book, but not five star material. All the same, read it, it's very good.	2005-06-04
US	14337050	R3ECM37B7GXL62	0141312629	966511661	The Changeling Sea (Firebird Fantasy)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	The Changeling Sea	The Changeling Sea is a truly beautiful book to read. It is only 160 or so pages and can be read in about 2 hours, but the story will stay with you for a long time afterwards. It is told from the point of view of Periwinkle, or Peri, a poor fisher's daughter. Her father was lost one day in his boat and her mother sits by the window all day, looking out at the sea. Peri works at the inn and lives in the house of an old woman who taught her spells and hexes and then vanished one day. <br /> <br /> Peri's life is fairly boring until one day she sees a dark horseman down by the sea at night. The next day, she meets the prince, Kir, at the old woman's cottage. She realizes that he was the horseman and he tells her that he used to talk to the old woman too. She tells him that she wants to hex the sea for stealing both of her parents and he asks her to deliver a message for him when she does. The message is a ring with the king's initials in it and several locks of hair. Peri is curious, but she does tie the message to one of her hexes when she throws them into the sea with a curse. Suddenly, she sees a great golden dragon rise out of the sea in front of her with a gigantic golden chain around its neck. She is naturally frightened and tries to get away. <br /> <br /> The next day all of the fisher folk are talking about the dragon; they want the gold chain. That much gold would be enough to make them all rich, they say. Soon strange things begin to happen to the fishermen though. They are caught in strange fogs, and see mermaids where others see only fish or sharks. Confused and scared, they decide to get a magician to take the gold chain off for them. Some phony magicians come and go, and then one day, Peri meets Lyo. He slips on her newly sponged floor and washes to a halt right under her nose. She can see the magic in his strange color-shifting eyes, and becomes convinced when he dries himself off with a wave of his hand. <br /> <br /> When Lyo understands what they want him to do, he asks Peri to row him out in her father's boat. They reach the dragon and Lyo sings him children's songs until he can get close enough. Then he takes the chain off. But before anything else happens, the chain turns into periwinkles and Lyo vanishes.  <br /> <br />Meanwhile, Kir has told his secret to Peri as they become closer. He thinks his mother lives in the land under the sea. He wants to go back, but the sea won't let him in. <br />One night, Peri stands at the shore and wishes aloud that Kir were \\"a little more human.\\" The next thing she knows, the sea dragon comes ashore and turns into a man at her feet. He doesn't know many words, so Peri begins to teach him. Meanwhile, Lyo has somehow found out what is really behind Kir and the sea dragon and the gold chain, at least partially, and is trying to help them all. <br /> <br /> Eventually, Lyo tells the king what his son really is, and brings him to Peri's cottage where he meets his other son. As it turns out, the king knew Kir's mother before he married and had a son. Somehow at birth, the two sons were changed. Kir was brought onto land, and the other was taken under the sea and chained. Kir is becoming more and more desperate, so they agree on a final course of action. I won't give the ending away, but Peri discovers an unknown talent, the fishermen get their gold, Kir gets back where he belongs and so does the sea dragon, now called Aidon.  <br /> <br /> The romance in this book is very sweet and, in some cases, unexpected. It was a beautiful, but bittersweet book to read, like many of McKillip's are. I thought the writing was great and the characters were really well developed, even at 160 pages. It had that familiar dream-like quality, but it did have a pretty happy ending. I would recommend this book to everyone. This is one of my favorite books ever; it will bring a tear to your eyes and a smile to your face. Go read it!	2005-06-04
US	14337050	R2T5FKKFDRVTA4	044023803X	460925244	Hawksong: The Kiesha'ra: Volume One (Kiesha'ra (Paperback))	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Interesting Shapeshifter Story	I have never really read any other books quite like this, it is very origional, at least in terms of setting. I'll give you a brief plot run through: A war is going on between the two kinds of shapeshifters, the avians and the serpiente. They are killing eachother off, as they have been for generations, and no end is in sight. Finally the two sides decide to meet to discuss peace terms. The mediators suggest that Danica, (our narrator, and the heir the the avian throne) marry Zane, heir to the serpiente throne. Both of their families dismiss this as crazy, and Danica's mother forces her to leave early from the meeting. <br /> <br /> However, Zane seems to have considered the idea more logically and won't give it up so easily. He manages to sneak into the avian palace and meets secretly with Danica to talk. Finally they agree that they will have to give it a shot, and they basically elope. Or course it is not a love match, and Zane informs Danica that he doesn't think he can ever love her either. However, they have to pretend to be in love in front of their people, which presents something of a problem for the reserved Danica. <br /> <br /> After a while, things seem to be settling down between the avians and the serpiente. But just then, Zane is attacked in the hallway, and Danica is poisoned as she tries to help him. Several more attempted murders, and one actual murder (Zane's mother) occur, before the culprits are found. After it is all over, Danica and Zane say what has been on their minds for quite a while, which is basically that they do love eachother. Everything winds up here, not a happy ending, but not a sad one either. <br /> <br /> I actually thought the romance in this book was very believable, (I know it doesn't sound that way from my description) and Danica and Zane were well developed. The other characters weren't well developed, but they weren't that important to the story either, so it didn't matter that much. I thought the setting was good, and so were all of the names and descriptions. You can argue that the writing needs work, of course, but all quibbles aside, read this book because it's fun, not because it's great literature.	2005-06-04
US	14337050	R95OOFLB6M9ZL	0060241497	611302574	Beauty: A Retelling of the Story of Beauty and the Beast	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Great retelling!	I've read a bunch of different things by this author now, and I definitely liked this one the best! I thought Beauty was a really likable character, and I identified with her right away. All of the other characters were realistic too and I just thought it was great. <br /> <br /> I won't go into the plot, since everyone knows how the story goes, but I will say that there were a couple of neat twists that made the story worth reading. I really like fairy tale retellings and this is definitely in the top three that I have read. The plot was fast moving and kept you interested, the characters were great (I really liked the beast) and it was fairly short, unlike Spindle's End, another retelling by Mckinley. I would recommend this book to all girls; you'll love it! Five stars! *****	2005-06-03
US	14337050	RIP36KE13H2JA	0929292839	5908720	It's a Jungle Out There!: Book One of the Rani Adventures (The Rani Adventures Series)	Books	3	4	6	N	N	A good premise, but...	I have to say, I thought I'd really enjoy this book. It seemed to have a lot of the kind of stories I like, about exotic countries and adventures. The stories themselves were very good, I can't say believable, because they weren't, but they are all true. It is organized roughly chronilogically, but in places it tends to bounce around a little. <br /> <br /> I thought his descriptions of life in the book were excellent, and often hilarious. Especially about the car trip, (hark to all kids who have mother's who love to grip handles when the fathers speed)! However, for some reason, I couldn't get into this book. It took me over a month, in between reading about 10 other books, to finish it! Maybe it is because it is divided into about 16 unrelated stories and I tend to like books that flow, rather than short stories. Anyway, it's a good read if you like this sort of thing, and worth a try to anyone!	2005-06-01
US	14337050	R2I9HL0XJJAU69	0441104002	57260788	Child Of Saturn	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A wonderful Arthurian-type tale	I was so happy to read this book, it is one of the best I have read recently! I had never heard of this author before and took a chance buying the book before I had read it. I am very glad I did too, and as soon as I finished it I bought the two sequels. (I'm still waiting for them to be delivered, please hurry!) <br />  <br /> The story is told from the points of view of Teleri, a magician's girl apprentice, and Ceilyn, a knight. The plot line is a little complex, so I won't go into detail. Glastyn, the magician, has left the island where the story takes place. The knights are becoming lax and unprincipled and hardly anyone trusts magic anymore. Meanwhile, the king's sister, Diaspad, has come to visit, bringing her cruel servants with her. She is bent on taking over the kingdom by causing a rift between the king and queen. <br /> <br /> When the story begins, Teleri accidentally finds out that Ceilyn is a shapeshifter, who changes into a wolf. He believes it is a curse, but she thinks it might be one of the ancient noble gifts. Because of his problem, Ceilyn is thrown together with the shy, timid Teleri and they eventually become friends. <br /> <br /> During this time, Diaspad is beginning to put her plans to work. An aura of strange dark magic surrounds the castle, and strange things begin to happen. Sudden thick fogs occur and some ancient ancestoral artifacts that have been lost for centuries appear out of nowhere. Gradually Ceilyn begins to suspect Diaspad, but knows that the king will never accept this. He is completely under his sister's influence. Also, Ceilyn avoids Teleri for a while because of other influences, (read it if you want to know) but eventually they make up. <br /> <br /> Things come to a head one night when two of Diaspad's henchmen, disguised as the queen's brothers, try to dig up the artifacts from their vault. Ceilyn is watching and tries to stop them, but is badly wounded. He barely makes it back to the castle, after Diaspad leaves, before collapsing. Luckily, it is Teleri who finds him. He is worried because Diaspad doesn't know yet who stopped her scheme, but if he doesn't recover quickly she will find out. Also, iron is poison to him, so the wound is particularly bad. However, Teleri manages to help him begin to heal and the story ends with this part. Arrgh, I hate cliffhanger endings!!! <br /> <br /> The main things I liked about this book were the Arthurian feel, (it was just like a King Arthur story without Arthur), the made up literary bits she put at the beginning of every chapter, (it made it feel very real), and the really sweet romance between Teleri and Ceilyn. It was very well done. However, I would only recommend this book to kids over 13 (unless you are very mature) for a couple of scenes. My only other problem is the ending. It didn't tie up anything! I can't wait to read the next book now to see what happens! But, the writing is good, the setting is great and the characters are great, not to mention the fast-paced plot. Definitely a must-read! <br />	2005-05-31
US	14337050	R17E62OVAO4766	1567181694	480672128	The Dream Warrior: Book One of the Dream Warrior Trilogy	Books	4	4	4	N	N	The Dream Warrior	I finished this book recently, and although it is not one of the best fantasy books I have read, it was pretty good. <br /> <br /> Corri, a thief in Hadliden, is being forced to marry the master thief, a disgusting man named Grimmel. She would rather do anything than marry him, but is locked in her room so she can't run away. A mysterious sorcerer uses magic to let her escape and then they ride off together. Later she discovers that the sorcerer's name is Imandoff. He speaks of some debt towards her, but isn't clear as to what it is. Fearful of pursuit by Grimmel's assassins, they head to the mountains. <br /> <br /> Soon, they meet the Tuonela warrior woman, Takra, and decide to journey together for a bit. They have some adventures in the valley of shadows, and Corri is almost caught by one of Grimmel's men. However, they manage to escape. After more journeying and wandering, during which Corri realizes that having friends can be a good thing, they arrive at the Tuonela gathering place. One of the Shakkas (like priestesses) declares Corri the Dream Warrior, though she doesn't really know what this means. There is also a geas on her, which is a sort of spell to guide her life. There she also meets one of Takra's kinsmen, Tirkul. <br /> <br /> After saving Tirkul's sister from a flood, he asks her to marry him in the Tuonela way. Corri needs more time to think, and decides to wait. I thought this part needed work. You don't just meet someone and fall in love two days later! Corri leaves the camp when she feels she is endangering the Tuonela. Takra goes with her and after more journeying and narrow escapes, they finally have a battle with Corri's father.  <br /> <br /> Corri's father is one of the ancient people that came from the stars. He want's to use the dark magic to gain control over all of Sar Akka. Corri decides she needs to fight him. At this point, Tirkul reenters the scene to help. Corri winds up destroying her father's star ship, which is a serious blow.However, she cannot kill him. After the battle, she realizes she really does love Tirkul, and here the book ends. Of course it is a trilogy, so it ends on a bit of a cliffhanger without a real resolution. <br /> <br /> My main criticisms are that the relationships were too quickly developed and slightly unreal. For example, Imandoff and Takra at the end. Where did that come from? The only other thing is that the plot was a little hard to follow. They had all of these adventures, but they don't seem that important and one is kind of hard to tell from another. So it was good, but not great. However, I think it is sadly overlooked.	2005-05-27
US	14337050	RW614DCGWUKU4	0441009344	739800863	Winter Rose	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Tapestry of Roses	McKillip has done it again! This is such a beautiful book to read; I couldn't put it down. It is sweet and sad and somewhat unfufilling, but it has that dream-like quality of all of McKillip's books. When you close the book, it's like waking up from a dream that wasn't quite finished yet. This book is a retelling of the ballad of Tam Lin, which I happened to particularly like. <br /> <br /> Rois Melior and her sister Laurel live in a small quiet town. Laurel is engaged to Perrin, a neighboring farmer, but Rois feels much happier roaming in the woods, though she has never wondered why... One day, a mysterious stranger moves into the old Lynn Hall. Apparently it is the old master's grandson. Strange rumors of curses surround him and no one is quite sure where he came from. Everyone knows the story of how cruel the old Master Lynn was to his son, until his son was driven mad and ran away leaving a dead father and no tracks. It is common knowledge that with his last breath, the father cursed his son and all the coming generations, however the actual curse is debated.  <br /> <br />The stranger reveals himself as Corbet Lynn, and Rois is immediately drawn to him because of his secrets, and because he came out of the wood. She eventually becomes entangled in Corbet's life and the curse. Dream and reality blur and combine in this book so delicately that it is hard to describe it and make any sense. It is so detailed, yet so bare; elegant, but not frilly. Laurel is also drawn to Corbet, and Rois must free her before she is dragged out of this world and into the wood. The rest of the book is about Rois's dreams and experiences in the wood. In order to free Corbet from the curse, she must love him and \\"hold him fast.\\" It is so beautifully written, but I can't do it justice here. You must read this book if you like fantasy!  <br /> <br /> Although the ending is not happy, exactly, it has that possibly-a-happy-ending feel that most of her books do. In some ways this is a morerealistic ending, but it also feels as if you aren't sure if it was all something the characters dreamed or if it was real. Roses appear over and over in this book, and ivy, though I couldn't really figure out what the significance was. This is definitely a must read, if only to enjoy McKillip's beautiful, graceful writing style, however, the story will probably pull you in once you begin. It is a disappointment to find yourself back in real life after this book!	2005-05-25
US	14337050	R2JKKJZCPMY06Z	0449213447	370928266	The Chosen	Books	5	3	4	N	N	The Chosen	From the very first page, this story grabbed me and wouldn't let go. At first, I thought it would be a pretty boring, run-of-the-mill type story, but for once I was wrong! It begins with the protagonist, Reuven Malter, in a basball game. Now, I'm not a fan of baseball (what can I say? I'd rather play it than watch it) but I still got really into it. Reuven is Jewish, but of a more moderate sect, while the other team is of a fanatic Jewish sect. I won't even try to spell it because I'll almost certaintly get it wrong. Anyway, the other team is pretty awful at baseball except for one boy, Danny Saunders.  <br /> <br /> The baseball game is long and intense, with both sides feeling that there is more going on than a simple game. Finally, Danny faces off with Reuven. Danny is hitting and Reuven is pitching. Danny strikes out on the first two pitches, but then figures out Reuven's trick and hits the ball straight into Reuven's face, breaking his glasses. Needless to say, Reuven is in a lot of pain and has a terrible headache. The other team wins the game and Reuven is rushed to the hospital where it is discovered that a piece of glass is lodged in his eye. He goes through a successful surgery, but no one knows whether he will regain sight in that eye. <br /> <br /> The next day, Danny comes to visit Reuven and to apologize, but Reuven, still angry, sends him away. Reuven's father tries to explain the importance of listening to someone when he wants to talk to you, so when Danny returns the next day, Reuven is ready to listen. Danny apologizes and they begin to get to know one another a little. In spite of his religion, Danny is interested in psyco-analisis, while Reuven wants to be a rabbi. <br /> <br /> This is the beginning of a wonderful, if sometimes rocky, friendship between the two. The rest of the book deals with each boy and his own problems, although it is mainly about Danny. Danny feels trapped in his religion. His father is the leader of the sect, and as theoldest son, Danny is destined to take his place. He doesn't have a good relationship with his father, and they don't talk except during Talmud memorization battles. Both boys learn something and benefit from the friendship and the ending is heart-wrenching, with a twist you'll never expect. Overall, I have almost no criticism for this book, it is a moving story and everyone can learn from it. I will try to find the sequal as soon as possible, and in the meantime, I advise everyone to read this book. You will never regret it!	2005-05-24
US	14337050	R22WWE59L9OCFD	0140432620	374464565	Daisy Miller (Penguin Classics)	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Daisy Miller, A Study on What?	The full title of this book is Daisy Miller: a study in two parts. I couldn't figure out what it was a study ON, which drove me nuts. I felt like James was trying to convey some message about society in this book, but it was certainly a very foggy one.      The story is told from the point of view of Mr. Winterbourne, an American in Rome. He meets Daisy at a hotel in Vevey, Switzerland, where he is visiting his aunt. He at first does not know what to make of the outgoing, but unsophisticated Daisy. He is impressed by her beauty and apparent innocence, but can't decide if she is a \\"nice girl\\" or something else. He quickly finds her to be a temperamental flirt. He has only known her for 3 days when he must leave Vevey. When Daisy is told, she throws a fit and is only consoled when he promises to visit her in Rome in the winter. End of part one.     Well, Winterbourne goes to see Daisy in Rome, just as he promised. However, he decides to stop in at another lady friend's house first. To his surprise, Daisy is visiting her at the same time. Daisy also seems to have found quite a few friends in Rome, mainly gentlemen. Especially one low born Italian, Giovanelli. Winterbourne is not sure what to make of this, and spends the next few weeks agonizing over the nature of Daisy's character. She gradually becomes the object of scorn among the polite society of Rome, because she is seen alone with gentlemen in the street and does all sorts of scandalous things. Winterbourne tries to guide her a bit, but she does not seem to care. He still can't make up his mind about her until he sees her one night in the Colosseum with Giovanelli. At that moment, he decides she is not worth his attention and he gives this away to her in something he says. She seems strangely hurt by this particular rejection and drives away.     A few days later, Daisy falls seriously ill and sends Winterbourne a message, saying that there was nothing between her and Giovanelli. A few weeks later, she dies. Thelast scene is between Winterbourne and his aunt, discussing the message. Winterbourne thinks that he misjudged her and that she would have liked at least one person to respect her. However, this doesn't appear to change him in the least and the last we hear, he's off chasing another foreign girl.     I didn't really understand the point of this book. It wasn't dull, but not much happened in 90 pages and I would have liked the point to be a little clearer. However, it's a slightly enjoyable book to read, and maybe other people can puzzle it out. It just wasn't my cup of tea.	2005-05-24
US	14337050	R3DBT5C6RRK3G2	0385327137	200912112	The Minstrel's Tale	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Just okay.	I was hoping that this would be a very enjoyable book to read, since I really like historical fiction. However, it didn't meet my expectations at all. It took me a week to finish it, whereas, I finish most books this length in a couple days.     The plot had some promise, though it was a bit cliched, as some other reviewers have said. It starts when Judith, a 13 year old noble's daughter, is betrothed to a horrible, ugly old man. Sound familiar? Anyway, at her betrothal banquet, she plays music with the visiting minstrel, named Robin. Music is her gift and Robin takes pity on her: before he leaves, he gives her an alternative. She can disguise herself as a boy and go to play with the king's minstrels.     Judith decides to run away; she cuts her hair and dresses like a boy, calling herself Jude. The next 100 pages is mainly about her ho hum travels through England. She is robbed, visits a friend, meets a mysterious old woman, goes to a monastery, has a run in with a blacksmith, etc. She finally arrives at the palace to begin her musical training.     She rapidly becomes a star pupil in terms of music at least, but is mercilessly teased and even beaten up by the boys at the school, who are jealous of her gift. Robin is one of her teachers, and she eventually finds out that he knows her secret. However, Robin is called away on family matters and later has to leave for good to manage his family's estate. Meanwhile, Jude is suffering worse and worse treatment. She finally decides to run away and goes to tell Robin before he leaves.     Okay, well, you can guess what happens next. They were really in love with eachother all along and Robin wants her to be his wife and doestn't care that she's only good at music. So in the end, they ride off together, both perfectly content.     My objections were that the plot was very predictable, the characters were boring and hardly developed and the ending didn't make any sense. We only find out in the last five pages that Robin cares anything about Jude at all. It felt like the author just threw it in there at the end.     So, it was just okay. Not awful, but it could have been much, much better. It left a lot to be desired.	2005-05-15
US	14337050	R9VT8O8AHTYZE	0395564018	766367076	The Island and the Ring	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Short, but sweet. One of my new favorites!  **SPOILERS	Ahh, what can I say about The Island And The Ring? It is a truly beautiful story, but given the amount of reviews, I'd say it's not well known. That is terrible as far as I'm concerned, so I'll try to do a basic plot outline for everyone out there.     Tania is the daughter of Campion, a king of one of the provinces in Elyssonne, and island kingdom. Campion wants to bring back the golden age in Elyssonne, a time of peace and beauty before the evil and manipulative (as well as seemingly immortal) ruler Ascanet conquered it. Campion is trying to form an alliance of some of the other provinces to defeat Ascanet and Tania is informed that she will have to marry Prince Radnor to help accomplish this.     Naturally, she isn't thrilled with the idea, especially when she sees how cold he is. The only people who seem to feel sympathy for her are her brother and the enigmatic, disfigered lutenist, Eliar. During her betrothal banquet, an army of Ascanet's fearsome warriors, the Silver Souls, appears and Tania rushes to the secret door in the stables to escape. There she overhears a struggle between Prince Radnor and a captain of the Silver Souls. Apparently, Campion was betrayed by his allies. However, the captain kills Radnor to prevent him from talking and Tania notices a strange ring that falls off his hand. She hides it in her skirt to keep it from glinting in the moonlight and betraying her and forgets it until later. (title hint: the ISLAND and the RING. Paying attention?)      Tania escapes to a cave in the woods where she hides until dawn. Then she meets up with Eliar who also escaped from the castle. He informs her of the death of her father and brother, and tells her that they are the only two survivors. He offers to take her to her mother's people, where she will be safe, and Tania agrees. Tania's mother died when she was very young and no one knows who her people are. They set off and a good portion of the story is about their trek through the country to the secret land of Dacaria. They have many adventures which I won't go into for brevity's sake, but it is still very exciting.     When they near Dacaria, Eliar reveals some more of his life to Tania. He once studied the lute with Ascanet and Ascanet told him that he could become the master of music if he only corrupted Dacaria. He refused, but can never go back to Dacaria for fear of the temptation. He finally tells Tania that he cares for her in a round about Eliarish sort of way. She misunderstands and thinks that he is trying to use her the same way her father wanted to - for political reasons. It is only after she hurts Eliar that she realizes that she misunderstood him and how painful it is for him to not talk to her.     However, before they reach Dacaria, and before they can make up, a hippogriff attacks and wounds both Eliar and Tania. They are discovered by the Dacarians and Tania is brought into their valley. Eliar stays in a hermit's hut outside the valley since he feels he can't safely enter it.     When they are both sufficiently recovered, Tania visits Eliar and they come to a better understanding of eachother. Later, she shows her ring to the hermit, who identifies it as Ascanet's ring - an extremely dangerous thing to have in Dacaria. She decides to journey alone to Ascanet and give him the ring, but also try to defeat him by not putting the ring on, no matter what he says.     Before she can leave, one of the Dacarians, Damon, (actually, he's Ascanet's son) tries to take the ring from her and Eliar is forced to defend her. He almost provokes an act of violence which would ruin Dacaria, but in the end, Damon goes off a cliff without any \\"help\\" from Eliar. Eliar has a relapse and Tania runs for help, but when she returns, the hippogriffs have taken him to Ascanet.     She eventually finds Ascanet and Eliar. Ascanet has distorted Eliar's hearing so he only hears dissonance, which of course is a terrible punishment for a musician. Tania needs to rescue him andfast, because he is slowly dying. How she does it and what happens afterwards I'll leave for you to find out. But I will say that there are an unexpected and heart-wrenching few pages near the end, but everything does end fairly happily, with Eliar and Tania having a chance at a happy ending together.     The best things about this book were the characters; they were so real, you actually felt like you knew them and how they would react to situations. The romance was also really sweet; I hate these love-at-first-sight type romances, they are so shallow. This romance took times and understanding to develop, which made it much more realistic. The descriptions were really nice and the story was fast-paced but believable. I also liked the mind-reading element, though it was a little confusing about when it worked and when it didn't. I certaintly highly recommend this book and I'm just sorry this author didn't write more fantasy. Please read it, you won't regret the effort!!!!	2005-05-15
US	14337050	R21NLXSPQJK8FU	0441011578	913252418	In the Forests of Serre	Books	4	6	6	N	N	In the Forests of Serre, who knows what will happen?	In the Forests of Serre was my first McKillip novel and after reading it I was hooked! I'll admit that it is a bit confusing and you have to think quite a bit before you figure out what it is about. However, it is definitely worth reading and you will probably find yourself grabbing every single one of her books that you can lay a hand on afterwards!     It alternates point of view between several characters: Prince Ronan, Princess Sidonie, the wizard Gyre, and Euan Ashe, a scribe. The story begins with Prince Ronan returning from a military campain in the south of Serre. On his way back to the palace, he accidently runs over a white hen which belongs to the elusive witch, Brume. When he refuses to enter her house (for good reason; the witch is known to eat anyone who does), she lays a curse on him that he will have a very bad day, and be forced to wander in the forest until he finds her again.     He returns home and finds his father, King Ferus, in a rage that his sone went off to fight without his permission. He tells Ronan that a Princess from Dacia (a smaller neighboring country with a reputation for magic) is coming and that he will have to marry her. Ronan is obviously upset by this, the more so because his own wife and child died in childbirth. Ever since then he has been trying to be killed.     Ronan wants to escape, but doesn't know what to do. He happens to glance out the window and sees a bird made of fire perched in the forest. (This is the mystical firebird, which gives anyone who follows it his heart's desire.) The bird calls to Ronan and he flees the castle, following the bird into the forests of Serre.     Meanwhile, in Dacia, Princess Sidonie is not exactly thrilled with the match either. She must marry Ronan to prevent a disastrous war between Serre and Dacia. Since Dacia had lost most of it's magic in the last generation. She runs to the wizard Unciel for guidance, but eventually she determines to go and make the best of it. Unciel puts a wizard named Gyre in charge of watching the princess in the dangerous and unpredictable forests of Serre.      Arggh, this story is hard to explain! So much happens and there is so much that is only implied, but has so much impact on the story. Well, I'll just give you a brief idea. Sidonie makes it through the forests to the palace only to find Ronan missing. Ronan has been wandering in the forest, following the firebird, but no one knows where he is. He does find the witch, but she won't release him until he captures the firebird and brings it to her. To Ronan this is unthinkable, because he has lost his heart to the firebird.     Somehow, Gyre decides he wants to take over Serre and become Ronan. So he captures Ronan and turns him into a firebird. Then Gyre takes Ronan's shape and leaves the real Ronan at the witch's house. Now he can go home. He makes it to the palace and is about to marry Sidonie before he says something that gives him away. Ferus blows him out the tower window in a blast of fire. However, this doesn't kill Gyre. Ronan manages to free himself from Brume, and agrees to bring Gyre to her in return, but he has to leave his heart with her as a guarantee.     Gyre is lured to Brume's cottage by the firebird and Ronan forgets his heart and goes home. When Sidonie finds him completely heartless (no pun intended) and discovers why, she sneaks out of the palace to find Brume and get Ronan's heart. Ronan's mother sends him out after her, and long story short, Ronan, Sidonie and Gyre all find themselves thrown together in Brume's cottage. Gyre appears to have realized how evil he was becoming. They are only free when Gyre gives the firebird's egg to Brume. Apparently they are somehow connected.     The story ends with Gyre going off on his travels alone, as before. Ronan realizes that what he really needed was something (or someone) to live for. It seems like he and Sidonie have a chance for a happy ending after all.     Another thing is that it is rather unclear why we keep having flashbacks to Unciel and Euan. Somehow, in an amazingly intricate way, they are all connected, but it is very foggy. I still don't really understand all of it, but it was so delicately embroidered together that it was a joy to read. However, if you like action-packed, clear-cut, black and white fantasy, this is not for you. This book is all about the grey areas. What does it really mean to have a heart? To be evil or kind? To be dreaming or awake? How can you really tell what is real and what is not? I mean, at the end, you're not even sure Brume is bad! I highly recommend it to all fantasy lovers, but be prepared to have a lot to think about after reading this.     If for nothing else, read this book for McKillip's graceful prose and her gorgeous descriptions. It is one of the most beautifully written books I have ever read!	2005-05-14
US	14337050	R2LSDJFSLOLLRC	0684801221	737092002	The Old Man and The Sea	Books	3	2	6	N	N	I don't know, I thought it was boring!	Well, I have never read a book by Hemingway before, although I have heard quite a lot about him, so I wasn't sure what to expect. What I ended up with was a pretty obvious and boring story about, (big surprise) and old man and the sea. <br /> <br /> A fisherman named Santiago (though his name is mentioned only about 3 times) has had 84 days of bad luck. He hasn't caught anything and the boy who helps him has had to leave because he needed a more profitable job. So Santiago decides to fish out deeper than he usually does. He hooks a really big fish, which begins pulling him out to sea. <br /> <br /> It keeps pulling him for 2 days before they finally battle it out, and Santiago kills the fish. He manages to lash it to his little boat and begins rowing for shore. However, before he gets very far, sharks start coming to feed on the carcass of the fish. Santiago fights them off for a while, but eventually nothing is left of the fish but a skeleton. He makes it back to land in the middle of the night and crawls home to bed, bruised, battered and defeated. The next day the boy takes care of him and the rest of the town marvels at the gigantic skeleton. At the end, nothing really changed. <br />  <br /> So the story (and this is a 117 page book) has very little to it. I didn't like the writing at all. It was too spare, it reminded me of the fish's skeleton AFTER the sharks ate it! Instead of describing stuff, he'd just state it blankly and without any emotion or eloquence. Instead of describing how or why the boy loved the man, he just says \\" The boy loved the old man.\\" How interesting is that? This was a short and easy read, but it totally bored me. It was a struggle to finish it. <br /> <br /> I think he was trying to prove a point about how desperate and determined the old man was, and how even though he succeeded, it all came to nothing. Three days later, after his big adventure, nothing had changed at all. However, this book didn't reach me at all. Too bad, I had hoped I would enjoy it. <br />	2005-05-11
US	14337050	R3PGWI55739V5B	0441008291	947376342	The Tower at Stony Wood	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Three sisters, three towers	First let me say that I absolutely love Mckillip's books, although I have only read three. I am sure the others are just as good though and I intend to read them soon.  <br /> This book is really several tales wound seamlessly together into one story. Each chapter alternates between several characters: Cyan Dag, a knight of Gloinmere, Thayne Ysse, heir to the throne in the North Islands, Melanthos, a baker's daughter in Skye and Sel, the baker.  <br /> The plot is complex and confusing, but if you are willing to not know any more than the characters and try to figure it out yourself, you will love it. Mckillip doesn't give you all the answers, she makes you think before you can find them.  <br /> The basic plot is that the king of Gloinmere has married a lady from Skye, but Cyan has reason to think that she is not who she seems to be. The real lady has been imprisoned in a tower in Skye and the Bard of Skye (she helps Cyan figure this all out) sends him off to rescue her.  <br /> Meanwhile, in the North Islands, Thayne's father has sent him off to find another tower in Skye. This one is supposed to have a dragon guarding it and treasure within. They want to use this treasure to build an army and free the islands from Gloinmere. <br /> Thayne and Cyan meet several times on their quests and Thayne thinks that Cyan is trying to find the treasure tower too. They both wind up there eventually and Thayne masters the dragon and almost kills Cyan. However, he stops himself at the end because he realizes that Cyan saved his brother in a long ago battle. Cyan also meets the Bard's sister. <br /> In the baker's house, other events are going on. Melanthos goes to a tower everyday with a mirror that shows her stories. She embroiders the stories and lets the wind take her work. However, these keep ending up in strange places. Her mother, Sel, is also drawn to the tower, but she is making something entirely different.  <br /> These stories all eventually meet up and come togetherin the end. I won't spoil it for you by giving away what the truth of everyone's situation is, but the three mysterious sisters are identified and we finally know some of the secrets of the three towers. The resolution still leaves you with a lot of questions, but it makes you think about what the story is really about.  <br /> One interesting thing in this book is that there are no villains. Mckillip's characters are not two-dimensional \\"good\\" or \\"bad\\" characters. You find yourself rooting for all of them, in different ways. One other thing I'd like to mention: there is an actual place called Skye. It's in Scottish history, if you've ever heard of Culloden or anything. In reality it's an island, and the one in the book isn't, but I thought it was an interesting coincidence. <br /> Anyway, I really liked this book and I would highly recommend it to any fantasy lovers who don't mind books that aren't clear cut. Mckillip's beautiful prose more than makes up for that. As she says, \\"We embroider our days. Life weaves.\\" So embroider your day by reading this book, it will leave you in awe. <br />	2005-05-02
US	14337050	R1JYF9NEGMFPH9	0380806215	254186423	The Assassins of Tamurin	Books	3	2	3	N	N	I was expecting better.	I was somewhat disappointed in this book, I have to say. When I read the reviews and the back cover, I was expecting to find an exciting, if long, book. The idea for the plot was very intriguing: an orphan girl, trained as a spy and an assassin is sent to watch, and eventually kill, the Sun Lord. She gradually falls in love with him (naturally) and her loyalty is tested. Which side will she choose?  <br /> Well, you pretty much know what's going to happen in the book from that. She completes her spy training, goes to the capital, becomes the Sun Lord's lover to spy better, reports on him, and discovers things that gradually fray her loyalty. This book did not need to be 450 pages. It could easily have been cut down to 300 - 350. There was so much detail to wade through! And you can only hear \\"We Durdana\\" do this and \\"We Durdana\\" do that so many times before it's not cute anymore. For those of you who've read this, you know what I mean. It was on almost every page! <br /> The first 75 pages of the book were fast-moving and gripping. I thought, \\"Oh wow! This is going to be great!\\" But as soon as she goes to the school, everything slows down! There was almost no action or even interesting things about being a spy for the next 200 pages! I kept going because I wanted to see if it got better. <br /> As a matter of fact, it did pick up again after that, and was very fast at the end. But it felt very uneven. The ending wound up a little too perfectly. How could the Sun Lord forgive her so fast, even if she did save his life?  <br /> I'm making it sound like I hated this book; I didn't. The story was good and Lale was a strong and likable character. I also enjoyed the romance and the Asian setting. But there was way too much foreshadowing and cute turns of phrase. Every chapter ends with something of the sort of \\"little did I know that...\\"  <br /> I thought it was just okay. It wasn't bad, though a little slow. But it could have been much better and more interesting. So unless you have a lot of time to spend and you like long fantasies, put it off until summer. I hope this was helpful.	2005-05-01
US	14337050	R3LSZMDJ4FPOAX	0684801523	193175702	The Great Gatsby	Books	3	3	7	N	N	The Great Gatsby	I have to say, this is one of those books where you feel like there is something important that you are missing when you read it. It seems to be about nothing on the surface, but for some reason, it feels like there is an undercurrent of meaning that just didn't come through for me.<br /> The book is narrated by a man named Nick, who moves out to West Egg on Long Island to learn about bonds in the 1920s. His cousin Daisy lives on East Egg with her husband Tom, though they don't have a good relationship.<br /> Next door to Nick lives a self-made millionare named Gatsby, who throws weekly wild parties at his house, but seems to have a sad secretive side. Gradually, Nick gets to know these people, but not a whole lot else seems to happen for quite a while. Tom has a mistress named Myrtle, who is married to a car mechanic.<br /> Eventually, Gatsby begins to confide in Nick, and tells him that he once knew Daisy and wanted to marry her, but left to fight in the war. By the time he came back she was already married. His wild parties were designed to attract her attention so he could see her again. Nick eventually gets them back together, and finally one hot day, Gatsby confronts Tom.<br /> They had gone into NYC for the day, and argue hotly over who Daisy really loves and who she's going to live with, but eventually, Tom pretty much wins. He sends Gatsby back to East Egg with Daisy while he stays with Nick and another girl, Jordan.<br /> Meanwhile, the car mechanic has finally discovered that his wife is cheating on him. He tries to lock her up, but she runs out the door and is hit by Gatsby's car. Driving by a little later, Nick and Tom see this and are convinced that Gatsby was driving, though it was really Daisy. Gatsby decides not to tell anyone the truth to protect her.<br /> By the next day, Tom and Daisy have left the state and Gatsby seems tranquil, but there is a sense of foreboding. Nick has to leave for work and when he returns, Gatsby is dead in his pool, killed by the mechanic because he thought Gatsby had killed his wife. This part was a little confusing.<br /> In the end, Daisy doesn't seem to really care about Gatsby, and no one comes to his funeral except for his father and Nick.<br /> By the end of the book, I definitely felt that it meant something, but it seemed very hazy and I couldn't figure out exactly what. I think it has something to do with caring more about appearances and money, than anything else. I would recommend reading this book as it was fairly enjoyable after the first chapter, but if you're a teenager you probably won't understand it completely. I'm going to do a re-read when I'm older and hopefully it will become clearer.cause he thought Gatsby had killed his wife. This part was a little confusing.   In the end, Daisy doesn't seem to really care about Gatsby, and no one comes to his funeral except for his father and Nick.   By the end of the book, I definitely felt that it meant something, but it seemed very hazy and I couldn't figure out exactly what. I think it has something to do with caring more about appearances and money, than anything else. I would recommend reading this book as it was fairly enjoyable after the first chapter, but if you're a teenager you probably won't understand it completely. I'm going to do a re-read when I'm older and hopefully it will become clearer.	2005-04-29
US	14337050	R3K1QAMBNQ9R36	0345342968	383457570	Fahrenheit 451	Books	2	1	6	N	N	I beg to differ.	Sorry to all of the people who loved this book: I didn't.  <br /> The plot wasn't bad, I'll admit, (I won't get into what it is about here, enough people already have) but I didn't care for the writing style at all. It was far too emotional, with all of this stuff that didn't make a whole lot of sense. Besides, whatever happened to Clarisse? She was the only good character, and she was only in it for two chapters! By the end, I hate to say, I really couldn't have cared less what happened to Montag. Don't get me wrong, I don't want to burn books or anything: the plot was an excellent idea, but the story didn't pull me in at all. I was hoping I'd enjoy it, even though I don't like science fiction, but I didn't. It was better than I had expected in some ways, which is why I'm giving it two stars. It makes you think about important things, like censorship and where it will lead us in the future. <br /> So, read it if you must, and think about its ideas, but don't expect too much. The best thing about this book is that it's short.	2005-04-25
US	14337050	R35QN2TTFTPTLY	068982033X	720940950	The Moorchild (Aladdin Fantasy)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	To all children who have ever felt different.	That is the dedication in this book, so it immediately caught my attention. Having often felt different myself, I thought I might identify with it and I found it to be a very enjoyable book.   It starts when Moql, one of the Folk who lives in the Mound in the moor, can't turn invisible. She is brought before the Prince and it is soon found that she is half human and only half Folk. (None of the Folk children know their parents) Since she will never fit in with the Folk, she is \\"changed\\" with a human baby against her will.    At first, she won't respond to anything her human parents do and tries to remember her old ways of living. But gradually, she teaches herself to forget, and to relearn everything from a human perspective. She has a new name too, Saaski. However, she never becomes totally human. She can't be around certain plants or metal, can climb unnaturally well, and can see runes where others can't. The other children tease and bully her unmercifully, but she can't seem to be like them, though she doesn't remember why.   She is drawn to the moor as well, although everyone else is afraid of it. Her parents try to keep her at home, but she still manages to go there frequently. Eventually, she meets a goatherd named Tam, who lives with an old, drunk tradesman. They become friends, and Saaski realizes that Tam is the only one who doesn't make her feel different. One day, he suggests that she might be a changeling. She brushes it off, but eventually realizes there is truth in it.   Meanwhile, trouble is brewing in the village. Nearly everyone suspects Saaski of being a changeling, so one day they ambush her with metal and the plants she can't abide. They are proved right, in front of her parents, when she miraculously climbs a house to escape. She has to leave the village. Only then does she remember who she is.   She resolves to get her parents' human child back from the Folk, and with Tam's aid, gets into the Mound. After many difficulties, they find the girland bring her out safely. They leave her with her real parents who naturally are overjoyed. Tam's master has somehow gotten into the Mound as well, and has eaten there, which means he has to stay, at least for a while.    So in the end, Saaski and Tam ride off into the sunset and live happily ever after together, although they never really belong anywhere. I thought it was a very satisfying, if bittersweet, ending. Anyone who has ever felt different should definitely read this book. Even if you haven't, you might still enjoy it!	2005-04-25
US	14337050	R3VL3A67N3CSUA	037582233X	411811908	Stargirl	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Stargirl	I decided to read Stargirl when I heard that it was about a homeschooler, since there aren't that many books with homeschoolers in them. (Being one myself, I was interested to see how they were portrayed.) I was pleasantly surprised, for once! Even though most homeschoolers aren't anything like Stargirl, it didn't give a bad impression. <br /> The story is told from the point of view of Leo Borlock, a student at Mica highschool. Stargirl comes to the school to make friends, apparently. At first, everyone in the school is slightly in awe of her. She has a pet rat, sings Happy Birthday to everyone with her banjo, wears strange clothes and changes her name whenever she \\"outgrows\\" it. Soon, however, she becomes very popular and everyone copies her.  <br /> Leo doesn't really know her in the first part of the book, but is very intrigued by her and even follows her into the desert one day. She is nothing like the other kids in the school, in general, much nicer. She cheers for the other basketball team as well as her own, helps people, leaves change on the sidewalk for little kids to find, and sends everyone cards. Gradually, her initial popularity fades, and the students become angry because of her impartial good-will. Leo decides to have her on his TV show, Hot Seat one day. At first, it goes really well, but when they allow the \\"jury\\" to question her, it soon turns into chaos. All of the kids shout insults at her and the tape is too awful to show. <br /> After this show, Leo and Stargirl become friends and a romance develops. However, everyone else is ignoring Stargirl and won't talk to her. She has only one friend left. Soon this treatment extends to Leo (Starboy) as well. He realizes that he has a choice: her or everyone else. But he puts off deciding because he can't face it. He explains to Stargirl how what she is doing is upsetting people and how she should try to be more normal. <br /> She listens to him and dresses and acts like all of the other girls in the school; she even changes her name back to Susan. But everyone still ignores her. Meanwhile, she is entering the state speech contest and expects to be greeted by a cheering mob when she gets back after winning the competition. Nobody in Mica has ever won anything. <br /> Sure enough, she easily wins the contest by speaking from the heart instead of the script. But when she gets back to the school, only one girl is there to welcome her. The next day she changes back to Stargirl, her attempt at being normal and popular having failed. She realizes that she can't be someone she isn't and still be happy. <br /> Leo finally decides that everyone else is more important than she is to him and stops talking to her. Strangely enough, she seems to understand this. <br /> On the day of the Ocotillo school ball, Stargirl goes to the dance by herself. She dances alone and no one talks to her, but she still seems to be having a good time. Gradually everyone realizes that although she is by herself, \\"...they were more alone than she was.\\" This is my favorite line in the book. Stargirl is the only person who isn't alone, because she is being herself. She doesn't need other people to be happy. Everyone else is pretending to be someone that they're not to be popular. So even though they have friends, they can't be themselves and are actually alone. <br /> Somehow, someone goes to dance with her and the school seems to accept her again. But instead of dancing normally, she leads everyone off on a bunny hop dance in the desert. When they return, she is gone. Then everyone sees her get into the side car of her bicycle (driven by her friend) and ride away. The next day, she moves away. No one ever sees her again. <br /> In the end of the book, Leo looks back on his experiences and realizes he made the wrong choice, but hopes he will have another chance someday.  <br /> No matter what the back of the book says, this book is not \\"a celebration of nonconformity\\"; it's a book about the need tobe YOURSELF above all other things. I think everyone can learn something from this book, whether it's how to be yourself, even if you're very different, or how to accept other people. So go read it! You won't be disappointed and you'll probably learn something too.	2005-04-23
US	14337050	R241Q5B4RB1RSI	0142400769	271589637	Things Not Seen	Books	3	1	1	N	N	A little weird...	This book was a little weird. I guess it was science fiction, and I'm not into that, but I couldn't really figure it out. <br /> It is about a boy named Bobby who wakes up one day and is invisible. He can't see himself and no one else can either. His parents are really frightened and want him to stay home, and not tell anyone because they are afraid the government will take him away for \\"scientific research\\". However, Bobby sneaks out and meets a blind girl named Alicia in the library. He knocks her down as he is going out of the library, and helps her up.  <br /> Meanwhile, when he gets home, he finds out that his parents had a car accident and he is on his own. He meets Alicia again and she finds out his secret and agrees to help him. <br /> The rest of the book is mainly about trying to find the cure and keep the government people from finding out what is going on. Bobby and Alicia become good friends, etc. You get the idea of where that is going. The end of the book is pretty mushy, so don't read it unless you don't mind that. <br /> Actually, the most interesting thing in the book for me was the comparison between being blind and being invisible. With one you can't see and with the other you can't be seen. I thought it was very interesting and it made you think about what it would be like to be blind. It was sad, but food for thought. <br /> Anyway, I thought the idea behind this book was good, but it didn't pull it off as well as I expected. Still worthwhile if you're looking for a book to read though.	2005-04-19
US	14337050	R1THRZ49PXRYN2	0439372941	194317773	Chasing Vermeer	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Mysterious events involving school kids and Vermeer?	This book was about two kids, Petra and Calder who try to find a stolen Vermeer painting. It is rather difficult to explain, because so much is going on in the book, but it involves codes, frogs, paintings and school. (If you don't already know what pentaminoes are, you will after reading this) It is so involved that even after I finished it I had to think for a few minutes to figure out what happened and why. I won't give anything else away, but it is a good mystery and somewhat weird. It gives you just enough info to keep you reading until the end. Great for a first novel! Well, since I find myself incapable of explaining this book any further without going into great detail, I leave you with a final word: go read it!!! (OK, several words, but lets not be picky...)	2005-04-19
US	14337050	R2KHR3DIT0CVID	006441034X	458436371	Howl's Moving Castle (World of Howl)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	What? Is that a flying castle?	This book had a very interesting premise: a flying castle. Who has ever heard of such a thing? I certaintly haven't. I wasn't really expecting much when I picked it up at the library, but it turned out to be a very humorous and origional fairytale.   It starts out when Sophie, the oldest of three sisters (so nothing good or exciting can happen to her) is starting her apprenticeship at the hat-making trade. She is very bored and talks to her hats (hah!) about what kind of people will wear them. Soon these predictions start to come true!    One day a beautiful woman sweeps into the shop and turns Sophie into and old woman without so much as a by-your-leave. Sophie reacts by calmly deciding to leave, although her reasons aren't really explained. Meanwhile, a flying castle, said to house a wizard who lures girls in and eats their hearts, is floating around the countryside. Sophie feels less timid as an old woman and walks right into the castle, where she meets the Wizard Howl's apprentice, Michael and a fire demon named Calcifer. Calcifer immediately asks her to break a contract involving himself and the wizard, but he can't tell her what it is about.   After this, things get a lot more complicated. Sophie finally meets Howl, who is not evil at all, though rather vain and a heartbreaker. The castle has one door that opens onto four different places, one in modern day Wales! A scarecrow appears to be chasing Sophie and the King's brother Justin has dissappeared. Sophie stays on at the castle, cleaning, and soon Howl asks her to visit the king to try to beg off searching for Justin. Howl and Michael also get mixed up with Sophie's sisters and they make a trip to Wales, where Sophie sees amazing things and meets Ms Angorian, a school teacher. There is also a dog/man under a spell, and other puzzles to be unriddled.   Sophie stays an old woman until the end of the book, when she breaks the bond between Calcifer (who is really a fallen star) and Howl, and the Witch is defeated. Then everything is explained and everyone has a happy ending. Sophie and Howl finally get together and are ready for a happy-ever-after that will be \\"...a good deal more eventful than any story made it sound...\\".    On the whole a very funny and origional story that turns fairytale conventions on its head. Fans of The Enchanted Forest Chronicles by Wrede might want to give this one a try. Very enjoyable!	2005-04-14
US	14337050	R1G8BEUFIK65TT	0440405823	207706290	13 CLOCKS, THE-P561636/4	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Another good James Thurber book.	For those of you who have read The Wonderful O by James Thurber, this book is very similar. It is a very short story of a prince who dresses up as a minstrel and an icy-hearted duke who keeps a princess locked up. Our prince gets it into his head to rescue the princess, so he goes to the duke and is told to collect a thousand gems in 99 hours and then restart all of the clocks in the castle (Time is frozen there). With a little help from a mysterious creature called the Golum, he finds his way to a lonely woman who is said to cry jewels instead of tears. However, when they arrive, she no longer cries about anything, because she has used all of her tears up. However she can make jewels by laughing but they don't last longer that 20 days. She manages to laugh enough jewels for them, and they hurry back to the Duke. It all works out happily in the end, the Duke is left with no jewels and the prince and princess ride off into the sunset and live happily ever after. <br />  This is a great book for kids as well as adults. The book is filled with wordplay and rhymes and is short and sweet, which is refreshing.	2005-04-14
US	14337050	R3AG3B6DM3D60K	006440966X	374371506	The Two Princesses of Bamarre	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Two VERY different princess!	I just finished reading this book recently and I was hoping I would enjoy it, since Ella Enchanted is one of my favorite books. I wasn't dissappointed! It is not as good as Ella Enchanted, but it has some of the same humor although it is completely different. <br /> Addie and Meryl are the two princesses of Bamarre. They are about as different as sisters can be: Addie is shy and scared of everything, while Meryl is intrepid and wants to be a heroine. Meanwhile, a terrible disease called the Gray Death is ravaging the country and it always kills its victims. When Addie turns 17 (Addie narrates the story) the Gray Death suddenly strikes down her sister. The king sets out to find the cure, but his book of Homely Truths keeps getting in his way. (You'll see what I mean when you read it). Anyway, Addie decides to go look for the cure herself, with a few helpful items from her friend, the wizard Rhys. She sets out and meets with several unsavory characters, namely and ogre and a specter. Soon she is captured by a dragon who likes company. The dragon keeps her in its cave for most of the period of her sister's illness. However, the dragon does reveal the cure to her. <br /> Just as the dragon is about to eat her, Addie escapes and again meets up with Rhys. (He appears several times during her journey). They rush home and take Meryl to a particular waterfall that will supposedly cure her after she drinks from it. Before they reach the waterfall, they are attacked by many different monsters that live in Bamarre. The ending is a little bittersweet, but it does end happily with a nice bit of romance. <br /> I think that putting in the epic poetry of Bamarre and all of the legends and traditions was a nice touch and made the story slightly more believable.  <br /> On the whole, this book is not as good as Ella Enchanted, but I would recommend it to anyone who liked that book. It is a good, happy fairytale story. Go read it!!!!	2005-04-11
US	14337050	R28WW4DYT4YLHL	0440472016	630512609	Proud Taste for Scarlet and Miniver	Books	3	5	7	N	N	Just didn't grab me...	This was a good kids book about Eleanor of Aquitaine, but it just didn't grab me. I guess I thought the whole premise of her telling her story after she is in heaven was a little weird, and I didn't really like the way she kept changing which person was telling the story. The actual story wasn't bad, and she did stick to the facts, but it just wasn't very interesting. The story begins when Eleanor is waiting for her husband Henry II to be judged on whether he'll get into heaven. Then one of her old friends, Abbot Suger tells the story of her first marriage. The book briefly returnes to heaven and then Mother Matilda tells the story of how Eleanor left King Louis for Henry. It again returns to heaven and next a knight tells of her years of marriage to King Henry. Another return to heaven and then Eleanor herself tells of her last 15 years after her husband's death. We again return to heaven just in time to greet Henry as he is escorted into heaven by Lincoln and Churchill. I guess it is a good book for younger kids for an intro to European history, but teens will probably be bored by this book.	2005-04-03
US	14337050	R19ZK9DX5W8EOT	0440995779	879872706	The Witch of Blackbird Pond	Books	5	3	4	N	N	The Witch	I read this book when I was younger and I picked it up again a few months ago and reread it. I thought it was excellent! The story begins when Kit, an orphan girl from Barbados goes to Connecticut. She lives with her stern aunt and uncle there, and eventually becomes friends with her cousins. At first she has a lot of trouble fitting in. She's not used to hard work and living in a cold climate. She can't wear her old clothes either. Then one day she meets the Quaker widow, Hannah, who lives on the marshes. They become friends and soon she meets up with Nat, the son of the captain of the ship she came on.  She winds up going to Hannah's cottage more and more, even though her aunt and uncle have forbade her to because Hannah is thought to be a witch. She becomes friends with Nat and gives secret reading and writing lessons to a neglected little girl. Meanwhile, at home, Kit and her cousins Judith and Mercy are having their own problems. Kit dreams persistantly of going home to Barbados. You sort of have a love triangle with Judith, Mercy and John. Then, a rich young man named William wants to marry Kit. Nat gets caught illuminating William's house with Jack o' lanterns, for obvious reasons to everyone but Kit, and is put in the stocks. It all comes to a head one day when people start accusing Hannah of practising witch-craft on their animals and children. Kit overhears and runs to get Hannah safely away on Nat's ship after the mob burns her house. Later the next day, she is arrested because people think she was the witch's apprentice. How will she escape? Will she see Nat again and mend things between them? And most of all, will she get her happy ending by going back to Barbados, or something much different? Read this book and find out!! It has everything: history, love, intrigue, danger, and lonliness. Go read it now, YOU WILL BE GLAD YOU DID!!!!	2005-04-01
US	14337050	R3QDAYYDYNYF4O	0060724757	257161727	Snow-walker	Books	4	8	8	N	N	This was very intriguing...	I have never read a fantasy book quite like this one. It took quite a bit from Norse mythology and some of it reminded me of Beowulf. It takes place in a very cold country in the north.  <br /> <br />  In the first book, Jessa and Thorkil are banished to Thrasirshall because their parents were not loyal to the present Jarl (ruler) and his evil Snow-walker bride from the north. The snow-walker, Gudrun, banished her monster son, Kari, to Thrasirshall with only one man to look after him. When they arrive, they find Kari to be the mirror image of his mother. (This theme recurrs over and over in the book; the same, but opposite, etc.)  He hates his mother as much as the rest of the country does. Soon the Jarl dies and Gudrun sends assassins to kill Kari. He escapes with his few friends and heads back to the Jarlshold. At the end of this book, he defeats his mother and she goes back to the land of the Snow-walkers, beyond the end of the world. <br /> <br />In the second book, a strange monster begins terrorizing the Jarlshold and surrounding countryside. Thorkil is dropped as a main character. Now the 6 main characters are Jessa, Kari, Brochael (Kari's guardian), Wulfgar (the new Jarl), Skapti (a poet) and Hakon (a servant or slave). This book takes place at the Jarlshold for the whole book and is mainly about how no one, not even his friends, will trust Kari because he has power to control people and looks like his mother. At the end of this book, the monster is neatly disposed of, though it had a satisfying ending. <br /> <br />In the third book, Wulfgar is about to be married when Gudrun sends a soul-stealing spell and takes his bride. It soon begins to affect the whole Jarlshold and the friends, except for Wulfgar, journey to the land of the Snow-walkers to try to defeat Gudrun once and for all. Along the way they meet a ghost army, a shape-shifter named Moongarm, a settlement that performs human sacrifice to appease the gods, etc. It was very fast paced. Eventually,they reach the Snow-walkers' land and good triumphs again. It has a happy, but strangely, also sad ending. You feel like something is missing for the characters and they will never completely have a happy ending where everything ties up perfectly. For this reason, the ending is well done. Good never triumphs completely. <br /> <br />The book was narrated from Jessa's point of view, except for a few changes to Hakon or Kari. I thought putting the Norse myths in gave it a very different feel than most other fantasy books I've read. Although it was a VERY long book, it moved along at a breath-taking speed and was never boring, just sort of dream-like. You were never sure what was real and what wasn't. It was definitely a unique read and I recommend it to any fantasy lovers who love a long, cold read! Im planning to look up other books by this author and I'm very glad I took the time to read it.	2005-03-31
US	14337050	REEXS5ONVPIGM	0142301515	642896985	Crown Duel (Crown Duel / Court Duel)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Please excuse my maladroitness in choosing a title.	This is one of my new favorite books! I read it several weeks ago and I am still thinking about it all the time! It is about a Countess named Meliara in the country of Remalna. In the first book, she and her brother stage a rebellion against the evil king. The plot is very complex, but basically, she is captured several times by the Marquis of Shevraeth, but later realizes that he was trying to help her and her brother. By the end of the first book, they have and alliance and the king is defeated. <br /> <br />In the second book, the Marquis is about to be crowned and Meliara's brother Branaric is about to be married. She goes to the capital and is soon caught up in the world of court intrigue and politics. I love all of the details of court life in this part, especially the fan language! I won't give away the ending, but it is very satisfying, though a bit abrupt. The second book has less fighting, but more magic and some romance too! <br /> <br />If you like fantasy, or want to try a good fantasy novel to start you off, READ THIS BOOK NOW!!! It is one of the best I have read, and is definitely one I'm keeping. It is very funny and has a lot of action, so go start reading! Enjoy!	2005-03-27
US	14337050	R33ALO0Z7Q0OSV	0064407055	505341703	Ella Enchanted (Trophy Newbery)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Fantastic Funny Fairy Tale!!!!	This is a really GREAT book, probably my favorite ever! It is the one that turned me on to fairy tales and fantasy! Ella was very funny and I really identified with her and her problems! Ella Enchanted is a good book for younger kids, but teenagers who still like happy endings and fairies will love it too! It is absolutely histerical in some spots, you will know them when you find them. Go and read this book if you haven't yet, it definitely a keeper!	2005-03-24
US	14337050	R255ZE6Z7A990Z	1571680926	887532930	Callie Shaw, Stableboy: A Novel	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Great But Overlooked Book For Horse-loving Girls	This is actually one of my favorite books! Nobody seems to know about it, but it is a great horse book and I loved it! The story is about Callie Shaw, a girl growing up in Texas during the depression. She lives with her aunt near a racetrack, and loves horses, but her aunt doesn't approve. Eventually, she disguises  herself as a boy to work as a stable boy at the track. She takes care of Pride, and makes friends with a real stable boy who knows who she is. Soon she is caught up in the racing world of intrigue. Horses are stolen, races won and lost and there is her father, a jockey she hasn't seen in years, to be found. It was a really funny horse book for girls who like adventure. And don't pay any attention to the reading level on the book. Ages 4-8 is ridiculous. Maybe 9-12 but teens can read it too. Every horse lover should read it! I hope my point is taken! Go and find this book!!!!	2005-03-23
US	14337050	R37787ODTXP8KX	0618150730	245463133	The Perilous Gard	Books	5	3	3	N	N	FANTASTIC!!!!	This was one of the best books I have ever read! I absolutely loved it! I thought the whole Tam Lin thing was really interesting and I loved how she put little bits of the ballad in it! The dialogue was great. Witty and sarcastic - my favorite kind! I loved all of the characters too, I identified so strongly with Kate that I wanted to BE her! I really liked her coolheadedness. Christopher was great too, and all of the other characters were really well done. The Lady in the Green was very mysterious, I wish we knew more about her! Well, bottom line, this was a great book! Anyone who likes historical fiction and fantasy (or both) should read it ASAP!	2005-02-25
