US	14376372	R38V10CY43970L	0375829164	481125233	Hoot	Books	5	1	1	N	N	creative	Hoot, by the creative Carl Hiaasen is one of my most favorite and well enjoyed books I've ever had the opportunity to dive into. Set in the environmentally sensitive and rich paradise of Florida- Coconut Grove to be precise, this setting is perfect for the book. Roy, a young boy is picked on to no end by the brawny Dana Matherson. Roy has only a select few friends and is the punching bag for Dana whenever he deems right. One day he deemed it right to shove Roy's face against the window of the school bus where he sees a barefooted boy jetting down the street. Roy doesn't just brush it off, like most would, the thought is lingering in his head all day of a boy with charcoal colored feet running amazingly fast- somebody he's never seen. Roy, a tall, quirky girl named Beatrice and her brother- the barefooted mystery boy nicknamed Mullet Fingers (who eventually beats up Dana) band together to stop a new Mother Paula's All-American Pancake House from being constructed after they discover a burrown of adorable endangered owls on the construction site. Mullet Fingers is extremely dedicated to saving this last piece of serenity in a tourist-bustling town \\"Ever since I was little... I've been watching this place disappear - the piney woods, the scrub, the creeks, the glades. Even the beaches, man - they put up these giant hotels and only goober tourists are allowed. It really sucks.\\" In order to stop the bulldozers the three set pranks on the site's construction supervisor- Curly including putting baby alliagtors in the portapotty and poisonous snakes all over the grounds. Curly hires a group of guard dogs to watch over the premises, but even that too is no match to the effective thinking of Mullet Fingers. After days of constant pranks, stalling of the construction, discontent with management at Mother Paula's the new building is in danger of being cancelled. What was so surprising is the fact that Mother Paula's knew about their existence. Then a string of great events happens and the three get what they want- I would elaborate, but the ending is too good. I recommend Hoot to anybody who wants a good read and a fast one chock full of humor and environmental conscience and stewardship. I wish everyone on Earth was this environmentally conscience and we wouldn't have global warming, endangered species and so on- a masterpiece.  <br />	2005-05-24
US	14376372	R1JLKEJQF2Y2CM	4770029314	710938373	The Girl with the White Flag	Books	5	7	8	N	N	the girl with the white flag	In \\"Girl with the white flag\\" you experience the harsh realities of warfare and the living conditions of civilians. You encounter a girl named Tomiko on the island of Okinawa in WWII. The background behind the story even being written was when later in life she had been flipping through a National Geographic and had recognized her own photo of her surrendering to United States troops. Upon discovering who was responsible for the picture, she wrote her long, horrifying tale of her taking on the role of a civilian in this time of war.  <br /> The story starts out with her describing everyday life in an average Okinawa household. Her father who's a samurai raises her as any person would when his wife passes away. Then all hell breaks loose when the shadowed war with the U.S. reaches their doorstep. Japan currently has rule over the island and they spread farfetched rumors of torture and killing. When Tomiko's father leaves home one day to visit the nearby town to help with recent bombings, he never returns. Upon hearing of fighting in the area they abandon their home and embark on a nightmarish quest. <br /> While hiding in caves amidst machine gun attacks, incendiary blitzes, and Japanese mass suicides and executions, she is split form her family. The betrayal of her home military, the losing of a second family, and the unfortold knowing that she may never see her family again add up in this compelling, emotional adventure. You'll feel heartbreaks, laughs of joy, and bitter hatred through out this novel. It's one book worth reading in a lifetime. <br />   Shane lakes <br />	2005-05-23
US	14376372	R29732KC9EAZXR	0689870752	219687707	Confessions of a Backup Dancer	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Confessions of a Backup Dancer Review.....GREAT!	Confessions of a Backup Dancer  By: Tucker Shaw     Confessions of a Backup Dancer is a nonfiction book about a girl, Kelly, who lives in San Diego and goes to an audition to later find herself going on a summer tour with the world's biggest pop star, Darcy Barnes. She gets all the insider secrets, and the real story behind all of the gossip. After getting in trouble with Darla Barnes, Darcy's control freak of a mother, Kelly is fired and then hired again by Darcy's rival, Pashmina. Over this hectic summer there are many true tests of friendship, loyalty, and \\"realness.\\" I like how the characters are very real and put into real situations. Over the course of the book, there was not a character I didn't except for Darla.   This was a great book. It was unlike any book I have ever read. This book gets inside Kelly's head and actually tells the situations for what they are from her point of view. I felt like I was actually inside of her world throughout the story and I really got to know what pop stars really acted like behind all of that entourage and press. I would recommend this book to older teens around age fifteen and older. The whole book talks about realness and how important this is, and Kelly struggled with staying real all summer without letting anything spin out of control. I really loved this out-of-control, wacky, and real-life story and any teenage girl would enjoy reading Confessions of a Backup Dancer.  S. C.	2005-05-23
US	14376372	R3LK1G285RB1NY	0786852895	442293804	The Opal Deception (Artemis Fowl, Book 4)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Another Excellent Novel	Artemis Fowl: The Opal Deception is another outstanding book by Eoin Colfer.  Mr. Colfer has done an exceptional job continuing on where he left off in the previous book in the series, Artemis Fowl: The Eternity Code.  Whether it's describing our own world or making up a whole new one, everything seems very real.  Pictures of both worlds become painted in the reader's head as they read on and on about the characters and settings.  As you read about what Artemis or Captain Short look like, it's as if you are right there with them.  Eoin Colfer does a fantastic job with this book.<br /><br />Along with this book comes excitement, tears, anger, and confusion.  Whatever the character is feeling, you come to feel it as well.  Mr. Colfer did an amazing job painting pictures in your head and feeding the reader emotions.  When there is some new scenery to be introduced, you end up feeling like you are there.  When characters experience happiness, pain, sadness, or anger, you feel it as well.  I enjoyed reading this book because Mr. Colfer did a wonderful job continuing on.  I felt as if I really were right there with Artemis, Butler, Captain Short, and whoever else was introduced.  Mr. Colfer also did very well showing how Artemis and Butler slowly started to remember things.  He slowly brought back the important magical creatures from previous books and reintroduced them to the human world.  Through intricate schemes and evil plots, Eoin Colfer's Artemis Fowl: The Opal Deception is an outstanding book and one of my personal favorites.<br /><br />Kerry Ward	2005-05-21
US	14376372	R3E3NHA0K2CVUJ	0446606812	372605776	Message in a Bottle	Books	5	12	14	N	N	A Touching Love Story	Message in a Bottle is a remarkable book, and like all Nicholas Sparks books it is a truly touching love story that leaves marks on your soul. This particular story is about a lady in her mid-thirties, named Theresa Osbourne that had recently gone through a divorce, and now single-handedly raised her twelve year old son, Kevin. On one of Theresa's vacations away from her home and job, writing a column in the Boston Times, she goes to a beach and finds a bottle washed up onto the shore. She picks up the bottle and opens it and there is a letter inside that she instinctively reads. The letter was written to a woman named Catherine by a man named Garret, and it is a very moving and romantic letter that amazes Theresa, considering it was written by a man. Taking out the names, she decides to print the letter in her column, hoping it would touch the readers as much as it had touched her. To Theresa's surprise she gets a phone call from someone who had also found a message in a bottle from Garret to Catherine. Theresa, only wondering what a man that writes such romantic and feeling filled letters, uses information in the messages to find him. When she finally finds him, pretending to be interested in the boat he recently remodeled, gets invited to go sailing with him. Not telling Garret about the letters she had found, she continued to spend time with Garret, and the two honestly fell in love with each other. Then Theresa finds out that Catherine is his ex-girlfriend that died when she was hit by a car. Having a long distance relationship, Theresa and Garret run into a lot of problems, but with true love like theirs, they are determined to work things out. <br /> <br />Nicolas Sparks has once again written a novel that will grasp the attention of people all over who like a good love story. I recommend this book for everyone that enjoys romance novels. <br />	2005-05-20
US	14376372	RR08SR3SQA2AF	0060541814	855829988	The Andromeda Strain	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Excellent book with great suspense	The Andromeda Strain is one of the best books I have ever read. This wonderfully written novel is a story concerning an extremely deadly organic structure that is introduced to human knowledge by killing the majority of  a small town while driving the rest insane. Outside of the main concept, the book tells of a special team that was set up just in case something like this happened. By the end, the team known as Wildfire is working restlessly to find a cure for this organism. The setting for this book is the southwest of the United States somewhere around the 1970's. The main characters in the novel are Jeremy Stone, Mark Hall, Leavitt, Burton, and Peter Jackson. I particularly enjoyed this book because of the knowledge the author appeared to hold in the subject discussed in the book such as; diseases, human health, micro-biology, biology, and several other areas. When reading this book, you have to pay attention to what you are reading the entire time, this is because there are small bits of important information throughout the book. I would highly recommend this book to any reader, especially those <br />who enjoy science-fiction. I thoroughly took delight in reading this fantastic book and thought one of the best aspects of it was the way it is written. it seemed as if this might have really happened, or will happen, especially in this day and age. I could hardly put this book down due to the suspense and how interesting I found it. This is the first of Michael Crichtons works I have read but I will doubtlessly read more of his works in part of this superb novel.  <br /> <br />Tom N.	2005-05-20
US	14376372	R13MD72THH8P1U	044022165X	511419057	The Rainmaker	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Comical Law Version of David and Goliath	I've only read a few books by John Grisham, but I can definitely say I've enjoyed them thus far. One day I was bored so I ransacked my bookshelf for books I haven't read (most often hand-me-downs from my brothers or books that caught my eye at a second hand book store), and The Pelican Brief caught my eye and I've been into John Grisham books ever since. Though I still view The Firm as Grisham's best book (that I've read anyway), The Rainmaker is definitely up there.  <br /> <br />When at a bookstore (second hand stores always have interesting books), I stumbled upon a copy of The Rainmaker, and for a bargain buck I start into it, reading whenever I could spare a minute. It's a very suspenseful, entertaining and yes, funny book. I could feel myself right there the entire way with Rudy. It seemed like when things finally got good, something bad happened. <br /> <br />The book is written from the point of view of a young lawyer named Rudy Baylor. Required to give free legal advice to the elderly in a Senior Citizens home. In his first visit, Rudy meets a serious smoker named Dot Black with a son who was screwed over by an insurance company in a fatal way planning to sue, and a woman who claims to be worth millions by the name of Mrs. Birdie. Everything seems to be going alone well for a while with Rudy until his future job falls through and he is left jobless and in big trouble. Unable to pay his bills, he is soon evicted, and things seem to go downhill from there. Later on in a rather shady firm when scavenging the hospital for new \\"customers\\", Rudy meets a young lady who he instantly likes. After he researches a bit, he finds out her husband beats her. They meet in secret and things further progress. In the courtroom, things seem to look up for Rudy when the judge who seemed to favor his opponent croaks and is replaced by a guy who takes a shining to Rudy instead. Who knows what will happen with Rudy in the courtroom and out? Read The Rainmaker to find out... <br /><br />L.M.	2005-05-19
US	14376372	R3FPB83FNUU7SM	0440439884	909727634	Island of the Blue Dolphins	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Left  Alone For 18 Years	Karana, a young girl abandoned on an island just south of Alaska.  She was left alone to survive for eighteen years.  Her entire tribe had left the island to flee from Aleutian enemies.  The Aleutians had tried to take over the island by stealing seals for trade and now the Russians were helping.  The only way to escape the continuing battles would be to leave the island.  In the confusion, her brother Ramo was left behind.  Karana was already on the ship and got off the ship to find him.  By some twist of fate she was left behind with him.   <br /> The wild dogs of the island had before been afraid of the humans but since there were two young people left alone with no men to protect them, they came and attacked.  The dogs killed Ramo and Karana was utterly alone.  She had to find food, shelter, and safety alone.  The dogs still came often and the threat remained on her life.  The ship that had promised to come back later never came... she waited for it but soon gave up hope.  She moved to a different part of the island and built a home in a cave with a whale bone fence to protect her.  She used her knowledge from her tribe's old ways to get food and store it for the future.  Also she learned how to fight off the dogs using her own weapons.   <br /> Through all the years she learns to love the island and it's beauty.  She grows up alone and her only friend is a dog she tamed.  Every once in a while she had tried to escape in the beginning but she stopped once she failed continuously.  She mastered how to use her resources and never waste.  In the end when it came time for her to be rescued she even was reluctant to leave the island because she had grown to love it so.  She learned of what had happened to her friends and family and accepted why they never returned.  She matured on the island and left her childhood there.  Karana made the best of what she had and looked on toward the future with no regrets.     <br />	2005-05-19
US	14376372	R1BQFIKCUWIFOQ	0786817070	442293804	Artemis Fowl (Artemis Fowl, Book 1)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A Must Read Fiction Novel	<br /> <br />Eoin Colfer's Artemis Fowl is a great book for people of all ages. It is a tale of a young boy genius who's name is Artemis Fowl (hence the title) who kidnaps a fairy in an effort to steal leprechauns gold. Well, as you can imagine, the People (a.k.a. the fairies) do not appreciate this. They send in everything from fairy swat teams to a bio-bomb but Artemis is always one step ahead of them. You follow the fairies as they (futilely) try to foil Artemis' plot. It has well-placed humor, action, and drama. <br />This book is an excellent display at fiction at it's finest, and it's just quirky enough to keep you into it. An example of this is, I always thought of centaurs as being quiet forest dwellers, but Foaly is a sarcastic tech wizard in this book .  <br />Needless to say I really enjoyed this book. It was very fun to read, with jokes planted just at the tense times and characters of all different backgrounds. There never was really a dull moment.  <br />Unfortunately though every cloud has a silver lining, every silver lining must also have a cloud. And so it is with this book. At certain points in this book I found myself going back to reread certain parts. Also it was kind of hard to sympathize with Artemis. I mean sure his Dad died, but he's kidnapping. <br />Obviously, I enjoyed the book. So if you enjoy trolls, fairies, centaurs, or warlocks this book definitely has a good time to offer you. <br />     A book report by: <br />      Daniel Marchioni <br />	2005-05-19
US	14376372	R2PE5M93JNXZLK	0671036017	641592894	Hindenburg,1937	Books	5	2	2	N	N	a great love story...	Hindenburg 1937 by Cameron Dokey is a great read, because it consists of romance, history, and a tad bit of adventure. I found myself not wanting to put it down because I so wanted to find out what would happen next. This book never gets boring, because there is always so much drama and events going on within the pages. <br />The main character is Anna Becker, a brave, young woman living in Germany. Her grandfather never finished his dying wish, but he was holding tickets for the trans-Atlantic voyage on the Hindenburg. Anna takes this as a sign to board the plane, despiter her fears. After all, if she doesn't leave her brother might marry her off so he can advance as a Nazi. Anna has bigger dreams than a housewife, which is another reason she takes the journey. She takes total trust in a stranger boarding the Hindenburg, because traveling alone is not safe. She soon finds out that his name is Erik Peterson and she really gets along with him until she sees that her first true love, Karl Mueller, is also on the plane, working for Germany.  <br />This book has lots of twists and turns, so you'll be sure to stay interested. The festivities on the plane are always exciting and its fun to go along with Anna'a adventure. What is even more enjoying is the love triangle that is soon created. This book also refers to the voyage from history that changed Germany forever. The book is not a difficult one, and it's also easy to fall in love with the awesome plot. <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-05-18
US	14376372	R14L2Y6LQT8BFP	0689836015	835820403	Silent To The Bone	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Silent to the Bone	Silent to the Bone was very well written. I found it to be somewhat childish. I think the author tried to make the book suspenseful but instead it was just a little slow for something to happen. Yet the whole time I honestly did want to know exactly what would happen to one of the main characters, Branwell. Silent to the Bone shows friendship while being a mystery type of book. There is excitement when you get to parts when you think the detective mystery is about to unfold, yet then you seem to just have to keep reading because something new happens. I would say this book isn't a difficult read and is meant for a mature teenager or younger adult. I think if you are looking for an easy read that is enjoyable you should read Silent to the Bone.	2005-05-18
US	14376372	R2475BSTJOJ5WJ	0064403688	527743600	Jacob Have I Loved	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Michael's Jacob Have I Loved Review	The driving force behind the book Jacob Have I Loved is sibling rivalry. The book is full of it as Caroline and Wheeze two sisters' battle back and forth looking for attention and love. During the entire book friendships are molded, torn apart, and put back together again all in the search of love and someone to care about.  <br /> Caroline is the princess the lovely and more loved of the two sisters. Wheeze as she is called is the tomboy that everyone takes for granted and treats as a boy. Ignored Wheeze finally finds someone she can confine in and his name is the captain. This legendary man was basically ostracized by means of humiliation by his fellow islander's years ago and has now returned. He is almost looked down upon by the other islanders but now by Wheeze. Wheeze is finally feeling good about herself now that she has someone to love and be loved by. However slowly the Captain begins to be taken over by Caroline's whit and charm. Wheeze once again is the outcast left lonely and cold. Will she ever find her identity as a human being? Will she find it on the island? You must read to find out.  <br /> This book is not exactly the best book I have ever read but it is however and easy read. The bad thing about this book is that the plot is extremely slow to develop and then information and new story lines barrage you. The ending in my idea could have used some work, and how the author came up with it I still do not know. All in all this book gets three out of five stars for it's slow but powerful plot and its dramatic love triangle. Another reason is the fact that you can read the book in two or three ours which is also appealing, so get yourself a copy and begin living the adventure of Jacob Have I Loved. <br />	2005-05-02
US	14376372	R3D4VBMNXVWGL2	0451526341	380925201	Animal farm: A Fairy Story	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Michael's Animal Farm Review	Animal farm follows suit with the rest of George Orwell's books, as a book with a good storyline but a gigantic amount of hidden meanings and symbolism. The plot of the story develops quickly which is a must if the book is to grab your attention and pull you in. The book is a quick read which makes it even better because you can finish it in a day or two at most. However the best part of the story has got to be by far actual plot and how the story takes place.<br /><br /> The story begins on a farm called Manor farm where animals are put to work as usual, just like on any other farm. Something however is different on this farm, the animals on this farm catch the wind of rebellion and decide to rise up against their masters. Together they run out the owners and workers of the farm and continually repel attacks by their human owners. They rename the farm Animal Farm hints the name of the book and everything is going smoothly. All the animals are fed and are happy except for a select few. The hunger with these few is not of food but of power and they crave it with a passion. Slowly the pigs begin pulling themselves up the power ladder one step at a time being careful not to offend anyone. However these acts go unnoticed so long that eventually the power hungry pigs are the ones with complete control and begin to rule over the animals just like the humans had, and that's how the book closes with the pigs toasting wine to mankind itself.<br /><br /> The vast symbolism and intriguing plot are two reasons why Animal Farm is a superb book that is greatly worth your time. You will root for the animals and hate the pigs and love every minute of it. That is why I am rating this book the highest rating five out of five stars for Animal Farm.	2005-04-27
US	14376372	R22HDHP22OY8WI	0446608955	721431789	A Walk to Remember	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Beautiful Love Story	The book, A Walk to Remember, by Nicholas Sparks, is a very moving book that draws the reader in and makes them feel as if they are in the story. The book is about a seventeen year old boy named Landon, and the Baptist minister's daughter, Jamie who both live in the small town of Beaufort, North Carolina.  <br />As a last resort, Landon decides to ask Jamie to the prom. Jamie says that she will go with him, but he has to promise not to fall in love with her. Landon, not believing what he just heard, doesn't have to think twice about promising, who would fall in love with Jamie? After the prom though, Landon starts spending more time with Jamie than he ever thought he would, and questions if he has kept his promise. Then Jamie tells Landon her biggest secret, and neither of their lives will ever be the same.  <br />This book is very descriptive and brings you into the mind of Landon Carter. You are destined to feel all of his happiness as well as all of his pain. The book will make you laugh and cry. This young love story was very well written and will draw you in right from the first page. I would recommend this book to everyone from teenagers to adults. This is a story for anyone who knows what it's like to be in love.  <br />Danielle <br />	2005-04-22
US	14376372	RXJPJI92CEH36	0446365386	716836572	Gone with the Wind	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Love this Book	\\"Gone with the Wind\\" by Margaret Mitchell is one of my favorite books of all time. Scarlet O'Hara, the foolish southern belle is in love with Ashley Wilkes, a scholar who won't have anything to do with her. To rebel, she marries his fiance' s brother and when the war breaks out, it turns ugly. She is then forced to move to Atlanta to her husband's house. In Atlanta, Georgia during the Civil War things aren't easy. It is hot and sandy. The sticky humidity is horrible to live in yet the feeling of \\"home\\" is evident everywhere. There are always barbecues and lazy afternoons up till the war. The south is mostly cotton fields, with little factories while the north is full of manufacturing. Things don't look too good for the south when the war breaks out and to make everything worse, the ports are soon closed off. All too soon Scarlet feels the bitterness of war as her childhood friends die for a losing cause. When she finds Atlanta being attacked by General Sherman she must flee for safety and there is nowhere to go.  <br />This story is about a girl who has been spoiled her entire life and then must learn to do things on her own. She faces the fact that she can't have everything and that she has to make sacrifices. Her whole life she has been the brat that depends on everyone else so she can't do anything on her own. She is blinded by her own insolence to the truth that nothing is fair. Sweet Melanie, her sister in law is kind to her and is too sweet hearted to see the wrong in anyone; she doesn't see how corrupt Scarlet' s mind is. She is always on Scarlet' s side despite the horrible things that she does. Scandalous Rhett Butler loves Scarlet for her foul heart and chases her throughout the whole book. Rhett has a history for doing unthinkable things to girls. (Unthinkable at the time; refusing to marry a girl he courted, publicly kissing, etc.) Everyone despises him for making a profit off of the war. All proper people support the failing cause and Rhett makes fun of them. He is a businessman, so nothing is personal till he meets Scarlet. As time progresses, Scarlet comes to realize the damage that she has done with her being wicked to everyone. She literally is and was a spoiled brat. Her suffering teaches her a lesson that we all should learn.  <br />If you love historical fiction with a little romance, this book is perfect for you. Scarlet is the perfect Southern belle who is incredible to read about. How she attracts men with her charm and little helpless acts is unbelievable. She is used to having slaves serve her and she treats them with little or no respect until she needs them. You cannot stop thinking about how much you would hate Scarlet if she was real, but you can't stop feeling sorry for her and you want to help her to realize how stupid she is.  <br />In this book you have a look at how the south was before and after the Civil War. They were still people with feelings, not horrible people who were wicked. You fall in love with the chivalry and way of life. You also realize how wrong slavery was. Even they knew it was wrong, they just couldn't imagine life without the slave labor. I think that the book is written well, you see why people did things and the reasoning behind their actions. I didn't always agree with what Scarlet did, but I knew why she did things. The book is very interesting and I couldn't put it down at all. I certainly would recommend it to just about anyone. I certainly understand the era better now. The book got me interested in other books about the war and now I can see why people felt the way they did. I can see the good and bad in slavery. I feel that lack of education on the issue is what caused such disastrous effects.  <br /> <br />Emily Norrod	2005-04-22
US	14376372	R1TAKE4NMSKJS8	0441172717	88529599	Dune	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Ingenious Science Fiction Masterpiece, February 21, 2005	Dune is probably the greatest Science Fiction book you can find, excluding Fantasy. If I were to recommend someone (especially someone who doesn't read Science Fiction) a Science Fiction novel, Frank Herbert's Dune is what I would primarily recommend. Frank Herbert adds myriad, quite verbose and hard to read details to intensify the condition of this story. While these details may be considered unneeded to some people, without them many people would probably be reading Arabian Nights even though these two books are scarcely similar.  <br /> <br />Frank Herbert creates a nearly uninhabitable landscape for the moisture-lacking desert planet of Arrakis for the Atreides family including Paul, the main character, to live on. However, Arrakis was once inhabited by House Atreides' archenemy, House Harkonnen and is also currently inhabited by Arrakis natives called Fremen during the story. The Fremen are an intelligent race that do everything they can to survive on the planet which includes wearing special suits called stillsuits to preserve the \\"body's water.\\"  <br /> <br />Adding yet another variable to the living conditions on Arrakis are the colossal sandworms; many are larger than whales. They reside under the sand and can hear movements on the sand's surface. They hunt down travelers and spice factories alike, completely consuming anything moving on the surface of the sand. Fremen have adapted to this way of life but people like the Atreides have much to learn.  <br /> <br />There are two things that are valuable on Arrakis. One is water and the other is mlange spice. Spice is the only reason why people other than Fremen inhabit Arrakis. It is the major export and profit maker of Arrakis. It is addictive like a drug to and is prized among the wealthy outside Arrakis. Atreides make portable spice factories to mine this spice despite their high vulnerability to sandworms.  <br /> <br />15 year-old Paul Atreides has intelligence beyond perceptibility in this novel. He is the son of the Duke Leto Atreides, leader of the Great House Atreides. Much of his intelligence comes from special training, but it is easy to doubt this is where he gets all of his superhuman adeptness. He is burdened by a self-founded \\"terrible purpose.\\"  <br /> <br />I really enjoyed this book. It isn't a book that I couldn't put down. It's too much of a mind-draining book to read it continuously for hours. I wouldn't recommend trying to read this book all at once. Dune gives you an idea of how good your present living situations are compared to the characters in this book. This is a book that I would have regretted not reading. <br /> <br />Tyler H.	2005-04-22
US	14376372	R1MPGFJ8MBQ480	0788789813	669379389	The Fellowship of the Ring (The Lord of the Rings, Book 1)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Neff 111  honors	Long ago in a distant land, there were nineteen magic rings forged for the Elven-kings, Dwarf-lords, and mortal men. The rings were magical and had bound in them the strength and will to rule. They were all deceived because the giver of this great knowledge was Sauron. Sauron then forged a powerful ring to rule all. Sauron takes advantage of this new knowledge by conquering Middle Earth. But not all resisted to Sauron. There were men who fought against Sauron to destroy his powerful and ominous empire. There was a great battle in Middle Earth. The battle was fought for the freedom of the men and other creatures for Middle Earth. During the battle, Isildur, heir of the throne of Gondor cut the Sauron's powerful ring from his hand. Isildur then tries to use the ominous power of the ring to perform the acts of good. One day Isildur was heading toward Minis Tirith, his home city, when an orc killed him. The ring left him. The ring was then lost, until a hobbit named Bilbo found the one ring of power.... If you want to find out the rest of the story, read the book!<br /><br />I loved the book for its exquisite details and amazing plot! This book will awe readers' imaginations. It gives readers a sense of hope as Frodo pursues to destroy the ring of power. I have learned the learned many things from this book, including the value of friendship, loyalty, and companionship.	2005-04-22
US	14376372	R34EGIE82PR6SO	0064407330	703135449	Abarat	Books	5	0	1	N	N	The best book ever!,	<br />How would you like to take a vacation from ordinary to extraordinary? In the book Abarat, by Clive Barker, young Candy Quackenbush does just that. One average day in Chickentown turns into the beginning of an adventure. Candy finds herself on the outskirts of the quiet, small town with a strange creature. This creature has a total of eight heads, with the extra seven sticking off of the original head. After her encounter with this creature, another weird being, and a broken down lighthouse, a sea appears out of nowhere. The sea takes Candy and the two creatures to the extraordinary world of the Abarat.  <br /> <br />Abarat is a wonderful book full of adventure and great oddities. Its cover alone will draw you in, and what you find inside keeps you there. Not only did Clive Barker write the most creative story ever, but he illustrated it as well. His paintings give you a clear image of what everyone and everything in the story looks like. I was very intrigued by the fact that Mr. Barker could paint the same picture with words as the picture he painted with colors. His descriptions put such a clear image in my head, I thought I was in the book.  <br /> <br />I would recommend Abarat to readers of all ages. I feel this because it can satisfy anybody's wants and needs. It contains humor, real-life experiences, fantasy, and much more. Abarat also contains a level of vocabulary that can be understood by all because of the amazing descriptions. This amazingly creative book is one of my favorites that can be loved by all.  <br />	2005-04-22
US	14376372	R1PFF7PQTZGKMX	0451192036	730789518	Black Like Me	Books	5	1	1	N	N	true meaning of racism	Black Like Me <br /> By John Howard Griffin <br /> <br /> Black Like me is a great book to show the true meaning of racism. In this book, the main character, John Howard Griffin, undergoes a temporary medical treatment that turns his skin dark. When he does not take the medication, he turns light again. While he is black, John Howard Griffin finds the experience to be much worse than he expected. Though fellow black people treat him with warmth, white people treat him with hostility and contempt. He never expected the comments on every street corner and the constant dirty looks. When he was white again, he found that white people then treated him with respect and were courteous. On the other hand blacks gave him weary looks filled with fear. John Griffin was soon discouraged within a few weeks and could see the exhaustion on his face just as well as the next black person. In the end, this experience brought him to the conclusion that racism was simply a huge misunderstanding between the different races.  <br /> I really like how this book shows not only more than one point of view, but from one person and one mind set. So he has taken his same views, and applied them to both worlds. It is interesting how John Howard Griffin goes takes the initiative to actually try and understand the other side of racism. He goes all the way through with his deal to write an article and finds how hard it really is to be black because of the reality of it all. I would recommend this book to anyone and everyone. The story is a true reality check for the main character, and, though it seems slow at first, it is a really eye-opening book for someone to read. <br />Shannon	2005-04-19
US	14376372	R2MUUIVSMZ396N	074343627X	241269653	Dreamcatcher	Books	4	2	2	N	N	dreamcatcher	Dream catcher by is a very interesting novel which is worth dedicating your time to. It was written by Stephen king and is one of his many science fiction books. The story takes place in current times and the setting spreads from suburban areas to deep in the woods. The author uses excellent descriptions which allow you to visualize the scene as if you were there. The interaction that the main characters have with the setting makes the book even easier to imagine by putting the readers in situation that they have personally been in. All of these factors make the book more enjoyable to read.    The setting is not the only well developed factor of the story.  Much time was also put into the development of all the stories characters. Each and every character could be looked at as a real person and if u saw them on the street you could walk up to them and have a conversation with them. Most of the characters are friendly and have you rooting for them in the end but a few just get under your skin and have you hoping that there future is not great. Overall the characters are well handled and are a contributing factor to the greatness of the book.   The most important feature of the book is of course the plot. The plot of this book would have to be one of my favorites. It feature the adventures of childhood friends  And spans to one final endeavor that will prove what friendship really is. It features everything from hunting to special force to aliens and many other things. This book is sure to appeal all audiences and offers something to anyone who enjoys reading.  Scot	2005-04-19
US	14376372	RHLUCBWDV2PA7	0805066691	820817223	Bury My Heart at Wounded Knee: An Indian History of the American West	Books	4	4	7	N	N	Bury My Heart At Wounded Knee	It's been over 3 decades since Bury My Heart at Wounded Knee was first written and it remains an authority on the history of the Native Americans in the American West.        Written from the native americans point of view, Dee Brown, an incredible historian, documents the conflicts and issues that eventually led to the settlement, forced settlement that is, of indians on reservations between 1860 and 1890. While describing these issues, Brown does not fall into the pattern of historians of exalting the white man while portraying the native Americans as savages. While sympathetic to the Natives, punches are not pulled about actions of either side. The history is much more complicated than a string of broken promises and broken treaties. The stories of different tribes as the Navajo, Apache, Ute, Cheyenne/Sioux, Kiowa/Puna have similar conflicts that these nations had with whites. Yet the side stories of the inter-tribal conflicts within nations and the different circumstances between the federal government and Indians are what make this book good, which are definitely explained with detail. The only bad things I have to say about the book are the lack of maps to explain the areas written about and the continuous, unchanging style of the book. It is a history book of course and therefore lacks the spunk of fiction novels.    Bury My Heart at Wounded Knee is an outstanding history explains many misconceptions caucasians have about the settlement of the west. I recommend it for anyone interested in the real history of the U.S.A., how the real American west was won, from the point of view of the people who lived it. All in all, I give this book a 4 out of 5 stars  Brian	2005-04-19
US	14376372	R2JW9MT07NRN4R	0812505158	691093854	The War of the Worlds (Tor Classics)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	michael's book review	The War of the Worlds is a amazing science fiction novel by H.G. Wells. It is a story about an alien invasion that takes place in Europe. All of the main action takes place in London and England. A man in a London suburb named Oglivy witnesses an alien cylinder crash into the Earth. Many of the towns people go to open it and see what's inside. The cylinder finally opens revealing sluggish aliens who have a killer heat ray. The ray shoots an invisible beam that incinerates anything in its path. A couple of more cylinders land and the invasion begins. The aliens built metal pods that walked on three legs so they could move around. They carry around the heat rays and start taking out cities. It has a very amazing ending but I don't want to give it away.<br /><br /> The war of the worlds is one of the bests books I've ever read. It contains a ton of action which really keeps me reading on and on. The details were so amazing that I just couldn't put the book down. My version of the book, The War of the Worlds, contained amazing illustrations that re-explained and put the correct picture in my head for a couple of the semi-confusing parts of the book. With the illustrations and the great detail made me feel like I was running away from the aliens along with the main character. Also H.G. Wells wrote descriptions about these crazy Twenty First century machines used by the aliens that I wouldn't believe existed even today. His descriptions of the action and the details of the machines made this book an excellent five star book.	2005-04-19
US	14376372	R3DBZ019DSNUCB	0441172695	445283043	Dune Messiah (The Dune Chronicles, Book 2)	Books	5	1	4	N	N	Dune Messiah	<br /> <br />Mr. Herbert's novel Dune Messiah is an excellently written book about an emperor named Paul Atreides. Ruling from Arrakis, he spots trouble from a mile away with his melange induced powers of prescience. <br />Of course if you have not yet read the prequal, Dune, then by now you are obscenely lost and would strongly encourage you to run to the nearest book store, pick up a copy of both books, and read them in chronological order. <br />This book, although difficult to understand is awesome to read and is very easy to get into. Some of the qualities are bewildering plot twists, bizarre characters, and an entertaining and action packed story line.  <br />This book is so awesome it has often been compared to The Lord of the Rings books, however like LOTR it is extremely difficult to read. Don't read this book unless you are both patient and have a lot of time on your hands because if you want to get all you can out of this book you will read some particularly hard sections over again. <br />This particular author, who has also written Dune, Children Of Dune, House Harkonnen, House Atreides, and many more. He has never ceased to amaze Science fiction fans and this is one of his best books yet. This book has reserved it's well deserved place among the ranks of Science Fiction Classics, so if you haven't read it ... Read It! <br />     A Dune Messiah review by, <br />     Daniel Marchioni  <br />	2005-04-18
US	14376372	R2I7TO8XPKHFBI	0757301002	264158449	Chicken Soup for the NASCAR Soul: Stories of Courage, Speed and Overcoming Adversity (Chicken Soup for the Soul)	Books	5	10	12	N	N	best nascar book	I read this book because I am a huge NASCAR fan and I thought it would suit me. This book includes exactly what the cover says it does, inspirational stories of courage, speed, and overcoming adversity. If you aren't usually a NASCAR fan, I think you can still enjoy this book. I also think you can enjoy this book if you aren't a common Chicken Soup reader. While watching coverage of races and reading the stories on the NASCAR drivers, you really only get to see the racing side of the drivers, but in this book, you get to know what some of the drivers are really like. For instance, some wouldn't have thought Gordon would be so charitable and take his show car to a kids' school, who was going blind and take him on a ride. Throughout this book, you hear from nearly every perspective in NASCAR, whether it be the drivers, fans, commentators, reporters, or even people who work in the garages. Something unique about this edition to the Chicken Soups' are the color images inserted in the middle of the book. I thought these were a bit out of place for this books theme because they were mostly images of drivers in victory lane or racing. This book will make you proud to be a NASCAR fan if you are one, and if you aren't, then you will probably begin tuning into the races on Sundays. My favorite story was the one where an older racer by the name of Joe Weaver takes one more lap around the track years after a highway accident left him rehabilitating in a nursing home and stopped him from racing. It was truly an inspirational story. I highly suggest this book to anyone and everyone, it is a great read. <br /> <br />By: Tom N. <br />	2005-04-18
US	14376372	R38PY91NKSQLAW	0345335465	496469815	Dragonflight (Dragonriders of Pern - Volume 1)	Books	3	8	10	N	N	Average Read	Dragonflight is the first book in Anne McCaffrey's highly acclaimed Dragonriders of Pern series. She carefully eases you into the world of Pern and the reader has no trouble visualizing the planet and its people. McCaffrey also has a nice, easy to understand writing style that will make this book popular among young adults and adults alike. Her characters are engaging and anyone will root for the stubborn, opinionated Lessa and her seemingly perfect mate, F'lar. Readers will also love the fact that this book is the start of a long series and that there will be a multitude of charecters other that F'lar and Lessa, but they do weave into the plots somewhat. <br /> <br /> I enjoyed the vivid environment the McCaffrey paints into this book. The system of government seems to take on its own as if she created it from actual happenings in history its self. Sometimes this yarn seems to unravel at the ends, dragging on at certain points, leaving the reader desperate for something to happen. If you can get past that this book is a great page-turner and will keep you on the edge of your desk...or, um bed, couch, and out other place you tend to read. <br /> <br />TYLER SMITH <br />	2005-04-18
US	14376372	RBJDZ4RA30PZA	0553274503	571684273	Flowers for Algernon (Bantam Classic)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Ingenious Story Idea	This story is ingenious and realistic.  I've never read a story even similar to this one before.  It is one of those stories that just brings out every emotion.  This original novel by Daniel Keyes receives my highest recommendations.      This is the story of a mentally disabled man, named Charlie, who is given a second chance to live a normal life.  After an experiment on a lab rat greatly improved its intelligence, Dr. Strauss is convinced that Charlie should be the first human to undergo the same operation as the rat, Algernon.  Every day Charlie must write a progress report on what happened each day.  After the operation, these reports rapidly improve.  The grammar, spelling, and punctuation get better with each progress report.    After a while, Charlie is allowed to look after himself.  He gets a job at a bakery and even rents his own apartment.  As the operation aimed to do, Charlie now lives a normal life.  Throughout the story, Charlie reflects on his not so great childhood, and what it was like, while he discovers his new, improve.    This book is moving, and causes you to discover a newfound great respect for the mentally disabled, who are just like anyone else, except with the misfortune of a life-changing disability.  This is definitely a novel that I encourage anyone to read.  By Tyler H.	2005-04-18
US	14376372	R1Y0T7N2RNMWCS	006447268X	537847885	The Chronicles of Chrestomanci, Volume 1: Charmed Life / The Lives of Christopher Chant	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Chrestomanci: Two tales of magic	If you like magic, mystery, mayham, and big long names, this book is calling you. The Chronicles of Chrestomanci(Volume 1) are two stories dealing with the lives of two very powerful enchanters: Eric Chant and Christopher Chant.   My personal opinion of this book was that it lived up to it's name. Mysterious and powerful, Volume 1 of the Chronicles of Chrestomanci is a favorite in my list. At first I barely touched it, mainly because the name confused me. But when I got past the first two chapters, the incredible story of Charmed Life entangled me in it's web of mayham, magic, and mystery. Then, I had a second helping with The Lives of Christopher Chant, a prequel to Charmed Life, dealing with the life of the current Chrestomanci in Charmed Life. If you are confused, don't despair, all of the answers you seek are the little book with the ginger on the cover.  Samoht(T.J.)	2005-04-18
US	14376372	RUQEUA1H9CHJR	0671039741	165977133	'Salem's Lot	Books	5	0	0	N	N	salems lot is the best ever ever ever ever.......	If you thought Jaws was scary, think again. If you thought Titanic was emotional, think again. If you thought Predator was gory and sadistic, you thought wrong again. These and other second rate films and novels aren't within comparison of this action/ love/ horror story. Steven King weaves an intricate web of stories into a brilliant tapestry referred to as Salem's Lot.  <br /> Ben Mears is a recent widower who is heading back to his childhood town of Jerusalem's lot in Massachusetts. He plans on writing his third best selling book here in the comforts of back road luxury. But it's not the luxury he's coming for, it's his dark and sinister encounter in the old towns mansion that draws him near. He frequently dreams of the horrifying event, but dares not speak of it. On his psychological path to break this evil spell, he comes to purchase the house, but is stunned to find it already bought. With the history of the house, (the home of an ex-mob boss and killer who is deceased) he wonders who possibly would want to purchase such a monstrous, run down, piece of junk.  <br /> As this and many other questions unfold in the mysterious happenings in Salem's lot as Mr. Mears arrives the terrible truth is unveiled. An unlikely group of heroes will emerge and have to use their talents, believe in the almighty god, and for some, pay the ultimate price. With many twists and turns this will frighten you and not let you put the book down as the author brings this compelling story right into the room. <br />By: shane lakes <br />	2005-04-17
US	14376372	R3239XHEF73AF3	0399501487	502818647	Lord of the Flies	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Michael's Lord of the Flies Review	One of the greatest books I have ever read and the best William Golding has written has to be by far The Lord of The Flies. This superbly written book has an extremely simple basis, which is human nature. William Golding illustrates human nature through words by telling the story of a group of schoolboys who crash land on a deserted island. At first the boys get along electing democratically a leader. The leader being Ralph who symbolizes everything good and righteous. Slowly however things on the island begin changing as human nature and a power hungry boy takes over.<br /><br /> The power hungry boy is named Jack who symbolizes evil and in my mind Nazi Germany. He slowly by force takes over Ralph, Piggy, and the rest of the weaker part of the group. This group could possibly symbolize the Jewish people in Nazi Germany. Jack and his band of strong classmates oppress and put down the weaker bunch continually. Slowly they become more and more physical until fights break out and two distinct groups are formed.<br /><br /> One group headed by Ralph was the weaker group and the other headed by Jack was the stronger group. Eventually, Simon a boy who was for peace and not dividing was \\"sacrificed\\" by Jack's group and total war broke out until Piggy had been killed and everyone else on Ralph's side fled to Jack's. Ralph alone and scared was hunted like an animal by Jack's band of hunters. The forest catches ablaze and Jack is on Ralph's heels with a spear in hand but what will happen next? You must read the book to find out!<br /><br /> This book is one of my personal favorites because of the immense amount of symbolism and hidden meanings. The characters can take on different groups in history and play out exactly what happened in those situations just like the one I provided about Nazi Germany. Another reason I adore this book is because of it's cold and raw reality about human nature and the scary fact that the school boys in the story could one day be anyone of us.	2005-04-17
US	14376372	R3DSZE519V7GLO	0385730586	122662979	Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants (Book 1)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Great Book	The Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants by Ann Brashares is one of my favorite books.  It goes through the lives of 4 teenage girls over their summer break.  As these four girls go through their first summer apart, you learn about what goes on in a typical teenage girl's brain.  I enjoyed reading how these girls dealt with problems and even learned a few valuable lessons.  Through letters, instant messages, and other conversations, I was pulled into reading on.  I found myself unable to put the book down because of teh flow between chapters.  One of the best parts of the book was reading the quotes that were placed between chapters.  Each quote led up to what would be found in the following chapter.  This book was really amazing.       At the beginning of the book, the girls are getting ready for their annual celebration after the end of the school year.  They find the magic pants in one of the girl's closets, and after they all put them on and saw that they fit everybody, they decided to form a sisterhood.  During the course of the summer,they send the pants from girl to girl and write back and forth.  I enjoyed reading about all of their experiences, good and bad.  I was so excited when I found out that there would be more.  All of the sequels have pulled me in and kept me waiting for more.  The Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants is the perfect book for girls of all ages.  Kerry W.	2005-04-17
US	14376372	R2IP2S83XBOZB4	0743412273	639916239	Pet Sematary	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Disturning, but you just can't put it down...	Many who have read this book find it as King's most frightening book. Personally I agree. This book is so realistic, it tricks you into believing things you thought not possible. It is suspenseful, a real nail biter by my terms. I've always been a King fan, and this simply reinforces my love of his work.    The book is about the Creed family, who moves to Ludlow, Maine. The family consists of Louis, a doctor at a university infirmary, Rachel, his wife, their daughter Ellie who is just starting kindergarten, their infant son gage, and their lovable cat Church. Louis instantly finds a friend and a father figure in his neighbor Jud. Jud shows the family a place called Pet Sematary hidden behind the forest near the Creed's new home. Ellie starts having prophetic dreams her cat Church will die, and Rachel is thoroughly disturbed due to the trauma she suffered as a child when her sister Zelda died. There's a gruesome secret behind Pet Sematary, and Louis will soon find out.    When Louis goes to work on his first day, he has a sickening experience with a patient named Victor Pascow. A car while jogging struck Pascow, and it isn't pretty. The most disturbing part, is the fact that Pascow warns Louis to stay away from the cemetery.    While the rest of the family goes to visit Rachel's parents, Louis stays home. Church is killed. Jud leads Louis to a place behind Pet Sematary, where they bury him. All seems well, until Church comes back, different...dead but alive. Soon Louis finds out more than pets can be buried there, and some things are just better off dead...  LM	2005-04-17
US	14376372	R3QMP0M368Y6SO	0805065210	85108845	Jericho Walls	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Jericho Walls	Jericho Walls is definitely a book of friendship. It is a rare friendship though, because it is in the 1950's and deals with an 11-year-old white girl named Jo Clawson and a 12-year-old black boy named Lucas Jefferson.        Jo is the preacher's daughter so she already has a lot to live up to in her new town of Jericho, South Carolina. However, she also has to make new friends which adds more to worry about. Before she moved to Jericho she had never seen a black person in her life. That all changes when her mother hires a black woman named Abeline to clean and cook for her family three days a week. Jo's parents raised her to treat everyone equal so she soon develops a friendship with Miss Abeline, and eventually a secret friendship with her son, Lucas. She spends long days by the river with him and eventually she finds a friend out of him that she never thought she could have. They go on little adventures together inspired by the ones they read about in books, but soon find themselves on a much bigger and real adventure when their friendship is revealed and the whole town starts talking. They both have to deal with the racist comments of the town, because no one is ready for the change into integration. Throughout all this though, the two stand strong, unlike the walls in Jericho that separate the people and eventually starts to fall down.       I thought this was a good book that held many life lessons. It teaches people to not care what other people think, but to follow your heart. It also teaches you not to judge people, because then you can be deceived. It shows everyone how it was like back then and how if you believed in something, you should fight for it, even if you are just a kid. This book was also easy to read and shows a true reality, even though it is fiction.  Lauren B	2005-04-17
US	14376372	RS26NU2FWBP7J	0446676098	430421115	The Notebook	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Story of Unbreakable Love	The Notebook by Nicholas Sparks is sure to captivate you. Right from the first sentence, (\\"Who am I? And how, I wonder, will this story end?\\"), you are drawn in and feel that you need to keep reading. This romance novel is very well written and organized, and easily takes you into the minds of the main characters, Noah Calhoun and Allie Nelson.   The Notebook is a tale of true love leading Allie back to Noah after fourteen years of absolutely no contact. One day Allie sees a newspaper article, and in it is Noah, her lost love she had spent a summer with when she was a teenager. It shows Noah in front of a recently fixed up house, and she remembered the summer the shared, and his vow to repair the old house. Allie, now engaged to a lawyer named Lon, and only a few weeks before the wedding, goes back to New Bern. She claims she is going to New Bern to do a little sopping and take her mind off the hectic planning. When she checks in to the hotel, though, she knows she has to go see Noah again.   She goes to Noah's house and after an awkward reunion they spend the night catching up on each others lives and sometime in the night Allie falls back in love with Noah. From there Allie struggles between Lon and Noah, and things keep popping up that make her decision more complicated.    I think this is a great book with a brilliant plot. This story of unbreakable love is a must read for any young adult or older that enjoys love stories.  Danielle G	2005-04-17
US	14376372	R1ZIZ76Y27XMY8	0380002930	498635851	Watership Down	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A True Masterpiece of Human Intellect and Literature	Watership Down, authored by the legendary Richard Adams is a masterpiece of human intellect, thoughts, and writing. This long (492 pages) yet fly-by book is full of action, courage, compassion, teamwork and friendship. The book starts with a clang of worrysome rabbits escaping their home-town burrow due to a virtual bunny-psychic having premonitions of something \\"bad\\". The group, headed by their pinnacle of a leader Hazel is soon on their way throughout the contryside. The \\"elements\\", death, which way to go, animals and the pounding thought of \\"is this worth it\\" linger around the clang of rabbits throughout the endeavour. The clang stumbles on other civilizations of rabbits, rivers and more but their spirits are boosted when they find an abandoned burrow they call the \\"Honeycomb\\" and their new home. They also have to fend off another civilization led by the sinister General Woundwart attacking their burrow and they meet a clumsy, stupid yet helpful seagull named Keehar. This stunning book is certainly enjoyable- as I've read it 3 times. This great novel has entertained millions of readers worldwide and will indefinately cntinue to do so for millions more. Ignore the uneducated common remarks of \\"Oh that book is SOOOOOO Boring\\", those people MUST have read a completely different book. Richard Adams uses great vocabulary from cover to cover. I have yet to read the sequel- Tails From Watership Down. Will it live up to the standard of its predecessor- only time will tell!	2005-04-14
US	14376372	R3OUFAV938KYV5	0156028352	730655858	The Color Purple	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Great Read	I am 14 years old and a student in the 8th grade at my town's junior high. I read this book last year during my 7th grade year. It was on our book of choice list to read. This book, granted was for a mature audience, based on its content, was actually a good lesson for people under the years for which it is to be directed towards. The lesson that is appopriate for any age, is that you must be content with who you are. It teaches you  not let anyone make you feel of less value than them, for no one is better than anyone else. This book illustrates a young girl's life, from my age, up to the age of my mother (late 40's)in the early 1900's. The young lady Celie had a terrible childhood. Her father of which turned out later to only be her stepfather, rape her and inpregnated her twice. Both of her children were taken away from her. Then a widowed man, with 3 children, comes courting Celie's sister Nettie. But then Mr. ______ ends up getting Celie, for her pa, thinks Nettie is too young to marry. So then Celie is given to Mr. _____, as the book does not show his name, but a blank line. Celie must live through constant abuse, rape, and hatred from Mr. _________ all her life. Until one day Shug Avery, the man of which Mr. ________ was really in love with comes. Then soon takes Celie away when she come back with her new husband, after the 2 ladies find all Nettie's hidden letters. This is when she finally stands up for herself against that who made her life feel like it was worth nothing, but household help. I believe, you must be a mature junior high student or older to read this book for the actual words printed. But the lesson that is learned about self confidence, and self acceptance and self respect should be taught to everyone. I believe this book should be read by all once they are the right age for such a read.	2005-04-13
US	14376372	R25XMRMQ57PD2W	0684863561	554760069	Where Are the Children?	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Where are the Children? By Mary Higgins Clark	\\"Where Are the Children?\\" by Mary Higgins Clark is a mystery about a woman named Nancy. She had lost her husband and two children a few years before, remarried and had two more children. When they are kidnapped out of their own backyard, all of the old feelings of the past come rushing back and she is determined to find them. The story captivates you and makes you want to keep reading more and more with each chapter, so if you don't like to read much, it's probably not the right book to choose because you wont be able to put it down.  Each chapter skips back and forth between characters and settings so, at the end of each chapter, you will be left hanging, wondering what is going to happen next. But then, just when you think the next chapter will answer your questions form the last, it doesn't. Needless to say, it isn't a very easy book to put down. By the end of the book, you still haven't put the pieces together and the ending will have sitting with your mouth dropped when you realize what you've just read. That is what makes it such good mystery! If it weren't a good mystery, it would be easily figured out during the middle of the story. I really enjoyed reading it: so much that the next book I read was another of Mary Higgins Clark's called \\"All around the Town\\". She has the ability to put everything in the story into perspective for you so that you feel like your there. Everyone should read this book!!  Kristin H.	2005-04-12
US	14376372	R1SUI530F9D3Z3	0385473788	636860937	The Diary of a Young Girl: The Definitive Edition	Books	5	2	5	N	N	A Touching Book For  Everyone	This book is a perfect example of what happens to people in hard times.  The four Franks are living in a cramped space with four other people.  For two years they hide from the authorities in the back of a warehouse.  Throughout the war they endure many hardships as food becomes scarce and tempers boil.  All of the emotion and reality of this book truly makes it an amazing read.  For me the book ended all too soon.<br /> In the beginning you see how Anne's life is normally before the war, the Jews have restrictions but nothing is too serious till people are taken away.  When suddenly one night her sister Margot was called to be taken away the Franks flee to a pre-arranged \\"Secret Annex.\\"  Later they are joined by the another family, a mother, father, and then Peter.  The Van Daans are people who don't get along with each other and soon they start to bicker with the Franks.  It is a big circle of mini-wars till a dentist comes to live with them.  Things become better but as time goes on and the war tightens their limits, things worsen.<br />This story of how humans react to terror and to each other is simply astonishing.  Several times the readers have to stop and say to themselves that this is real and actually happened.  The hatred for Jews and the rivalry against one another was all real.  You become attached to the characters because you want to help them; you see how to improve things, you are saddened when something goes wrong, you see the truth behind what the others do.  When Anne was fighting with her mother you could see where both of them were coming from and you wanted to end it.  You see how Anne grows up from an adolescent to a woman.  All of the time she is forced to mature for her own sake and survival, as with the others.  You also see how Peter changes too.  They bond together towards the end of the diary and you see how much Anne needed someone real to talk to.  Their friendship grows and then they grow affectionate in the end.  With each other they solve their problems and help each other to help others.  The community in the \\"Secret Annex\\" improves and then everything seems perfect till tragedy strikes.<br />The diary ends rather quickly and it takes you awhile to register all that you have read.  You probably soak in more when you're finished with the book than when you were reading it because you think about it and then realize the significance of everything.  You reflect on why people acted in certain ways, the motives of the burglars, the struggles of the \\"helpers\\"- it all connects.  In the end you learn that struggle builds character and even in the darkest times there is still hope.  Sadly the Franks were captured and all separated to die in different ways.  They live on in Anne's diary.<br />Emily Ny solve their problems and help each other to help others.  The community in the \\"Secret Annex\\" improves and then everything seems perfect till tragedy strikes.<br />The diary ends rather quickly and it takes you awhile to register all that you have read.  You probably soak in more when you're finished with the book than when you were reading it because you think about it and then realize the significance of everything.  You reflect on why people acted in certain ways, the motives of the burglars, the struggles of the \\"helpers\\"- it all connects.  In the end you learn that struggle builds character and even in the darkest times there is still hope.  Sadly the Franks were captured and all separated to die in different ways.  They live on in Anne's diary.<br />Emily N	2005-04-11
