US	14564680	RH2KILPT46E6O	0385901933	738488653	Angels in Pink: Kathleen's Story	Books	5	3	4	N	N	The Story of a Young Girl "Kathleen's Story"	Boys beware \\"Kathleen's Story\\" the first book in the Angels in Pink series is probably not for you.  This book is full of girl talk, romance, and all sorts of things that boys don't relate to.  Kathleen and her two friends Raina and Holly decide to spend their summer vacation as Pink Angels in Parker-Sloan General Hospital. <br />At first Kathleen is reluctant to volunteer because she has to care for her wheelchair bound mother, but her friends convinced her to volunteer anyway.  Kathleen is surprised she likes volunteering as much as she does.  Not only does she get a break from her mother, but she gets to help others, and meet new people.  Having to care for her mother didn't leave her with much time to socialize with boys, so when she meets Carson, another volunteer, she is unsure how to act. <br />The title of the series is what caught my attention, and the fact that is was written by Lurlene McDaniel, one of my favorite authors.  \\"Kathleen's Story\\" kept me interested and always wondering what would happen next.  Lurlene McDaniel's books are always centered on teenage girls which makes them seem more realistic and easy to relate to. <br />I loved the first book in the Angels in Pink series and can't wait to read the second \\"Raina's Story.\\" <br />	2005-05-11
US	14564680	R1ZME4MQQJITMH	0141313285	411554842	Camp X	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Great Mystery Book	Once I started reading this book it was hard to stop. Two boys were pretending to play war on a road where one was Canadian and the other was a Nazi. They were trying to go home but get stopped by a Jeep. That is how they find the spy camp. They have no idea what is going on in the camp, so they try to find out more and get caught. They get taken to the leader. They think they're in a lot of trouble but end up helping the camp do a few \\"jobs.\\" They end up finding out one of they're friends is a Nazi spy. They get kidnapped by him and interrogated. Then the other Nazi spies come in and hit them. They end up telling them everything. I can't tell you anymore because then that would ruin the book, and you would probably get mad at me. It is a great book if you like action mysteries. This book has great entertainment and excitement. The details in Camp X are very specific, so you can almost feel what is going on in the story. This book is full of great action. I'd give this book five stars.	2005-04-28
US	14564680	R11AFY7YACI897	0060007672	717517702	Surviving Hitler: A Boy in the Nazi Death Camps	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Surviving Hilter	Surviving Hilter is a great book. It teaches about all of the problem that the Jews had to go through,what the Nazi camps were like. What they had to do in the camps. I gave it 5 stars because I really liked the book.	2005-04-27
US	14564680	REPEQ7AP5AT1K	0142401269	656087016	Blind Sighted	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Being blind isn't only with your eyes	I thought that this book was a very exciting!!!! Kirk although short was brilliant.  I liked how when he thought about stuff he would write it out in poems or \\"ramblings\\" as he put it.  I thought it was well written also and the plot was good.  I liked the fact that they had described with so much detail it kind of felt like you knew how he felt like you were there or you knew how he was feeling.  I also like how Glenn had befriended him and used his \\"ramblings\\" as lyrics for his songs and then when he played with the socks band they used his song. I just really liked this book the only thing I didn't like was when they really went in to detail with Kirk and Laurens moments. But other than that it was a good book.	2005-04-27
US	14564680	R3EC8Q13M0O1AW	0060735376	592343874	AVP: Alien vs. Predator: The Movie Novelization	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Alien vs Predator	A mysterious structure has been detected by via satellite far below the ice in Antarctica at the bottom of the world. A crack team of scientists, drillers, archaeologists and adventurers assembled by a billionaire industrialist, Weyland Industries, has traveled to the Antarctic wastes to make history by exploring what is believed to be a fully preserved pyramid predating those built by early Egyptian and Mexican civilizations.  <br />But once this expedition crew enters, there will be no way out and no hope left for humankind. Because deep within the labyrinth, a terror is stirring, an alien monstrosity more vicious, cunning, evil, and unstoppable than any species in the universe except one: the otherworldly Predators who brought the nightmare to Earth to begin with and who are now returning here to face the beasts once more in the most unholy combat. The battle is about to begin and to the victor will go the planet. Who ever wins we lose.  <br />	2005-04-27
US	14564680	R2PZBJ4MKTV4S1	0441783589	242880671	Starship Troopers	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Starship Troopers	REVIEW<br /><br />This was a good but complicated book.  The plot was completely different from other science fiction thrillers.  Overall the book was great.<br /><br /> If you have seen the movie, don't expect this to be anything like it.  The book is far more adventurous and exciting.  What I liked about the book was the basic elements/locations in which it was told, it didn't just stay in one place the whole time.  It took you on a great journey of action and horror.  I liked it because of the outer space military action.  It has everything and more that should be in a book. If you're in the military you will have a blast while you read this and it will motivate you to do better in and throughout your life. What I thought was a let down on the book were the flashbacks.  I think it was complicated and it did not make any sense to me for a while.  It went back years than present time, years and then present time, it was just confusing for me.  Other than that it was great.  The basics of this book are it takes place in the future when the human race is at war with bugs from another world.  The humans must defeat the bugs in order to maintain life on earth.  This book is a heart thumping thriller and gets you on the edge of your seat as you read.  Robert A. Heinlein is the author of this and other great science fiction novels.  If you don't know what to read, make it Heinlein.	2005-04-27
US	14564680	R2XEV0ZZ13VF7S	0618404414	580560501	Messenger (Giver Quartet)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A Message About Messenger	I rather enjoyed reading the Messenger.  I read it quite quickly and rather easily.  Messenger's plot is unpredictable.  The reader is constantly kept on their toes.  There are a lot of nice details which really bring out the unique characters and their surrounding world.  I disliked one thing about this book.  I have read the previous two books of this series, The Giver and Gathering Blue, and felt that this book had a poor ending when it is supposed to end the book and the series.  Like The Giver, Messenger dramatizes the idea of a utopia gone wrong, and focus on a young person who must save the world that he or she belongs to.  The Village is a refuge for people fleeing from poverty and persecution.  Newcomers are kindly welcomed no matter what state they are in.  When comparing the Village to the real world it is much like the United States of America.  The wall being built because of rage against new immigrants is similar to the recent discussions of closing our border completely to foreign immigrants.  I think it is neat how this supposed to be perfect world can be related to our world and issues.  I would highly recommend this book especially if you enjoy The Giver, Gathering Blue, or any other books written by Lois Lowry.	2005-04-27
US	14564680	R3JQMHC1ZTFKT6	0451209699	538986329	Blacklist (A V.I. Warshawski Novel)	Books	5	2	7	N	N	Mysterious Thinking	<br />V.I. finds herself out at New Solway checking on her friends' elderly mother who has been seeing lights on in her old mansion. When V.I. checks it out she finds something else that V.I. didn't expect. The mansions' pool had a dead person. From there V.I. found out that today people are still racist. She also didn't expect to find herself in the middle of a federal investigation on a suspected terrorist. V.I. must figure out how to get out of that mess and save the investigation. <br /> <br />Blacklist is very mysterious. Even when you're not reading the book you try to figure out the mystery. Once you think you have it figured out the story twist and makes things more complicated to figure out. But that's what I like about it. Some of the politics was confusing with the Patriot Act. Under the circumstances, the book seems like if this happened in real life everything would happen. <br />	2005-04-27
US	14564680	R2MMLK3Q048BJY	0765306298	407069479	New Spring: The Novel (Wheel of Time)	Books	5	18	23	N	N	I'M STILL IN!!	No matter what people say, Robert Jordan's works are astounding.  I've read all the books in the Wheel of Time series and have to say, Robert Jordan is one of the greatest writers whose books I have read.  New Spring is an example of how great his books are.  <br /> <br />New Spring is filled with action, emotion, thoughts, and other great things to fill the gaps.  It is a great book, otherwise I would not be here writing about it.  New Spring lets you live as the older characters in books 1 through 10.  You really see how innocent those characters are and you feel for them. <br /> <br />Moiraine Damodred is one of the main characters.  In the other books, you see Moiraine as a rock, a person who doesn't have emotions, commands in a heartbeat, who everyone else dislikes and/or fears.  But in New Spring, Moiraine is directly opposite of what she is in 1 through 10.  She has big problems, she's innocent and helpless, you can't help not to dislike from the way the other books present her. It's because you now know what she is like under all those layers.  You feel for her. <br /> <br />Siuan Sanche is the same, tough in the old books, but innocent in New Spring.  The contrast of the characters in the difference of the years is amazing, and I love it. <br /> <br />I never expected less of Robert Jordan, and when his new book, The Knife of Dreams, comes out, I will be there to get it. <br /> <br />New Spring is a book for all those that are still loyal to Robert Jordan, and anyone else that is looking for a great book to fill up a couple hours.  Don't listen to what everyone else says about him, find out for yourself, and realize that Robert Jordan needs to do what he outstrips everyone else in doing.  Write. <br />	2005-04-27
US	14564680	R10A9KLNG8CYWK	0385729359	318256739	Girls in Pants: The Third Summer of the Sisterhood	Books	5	6	9	N	N	The Third Summer of the Sisterhood	The Third Summer of the Sisterhood is a fantastic third installment in Ann Brashares series of four girlfriends growing up together and spending their summers apart.  This is the last summer before the four girls head off to college and begin to journey on. <br /> After reading the first two books in the series I was eager to start reading the third to find out what would happen.  I enjoy how the author created such realistic characters, with real problems.  It seems so real that sometimes throughout the book you can identify with each girl at different times.  The feeling to relate to the characters and the real situations makes the book even more wonderful. <br /> If you have not read the first two books I recommend you do so.  Incase you haven't here is a little summary of what has been going on.  Four friends: Line, Tibby, Carmen, and Bridget have to spend their first summer apart.  During this time they have a magical pair of pants that they send back and fourth.  With the pants they have adventures and do things they would have never done before.   <br /> In this book, however; the girls are planning on going to different colleges in the fall.  This book was definitely one that got you interested in reading more and more until you were finished.  I highly recommend the third book in the series because the characters teach the reader valuable lessons to other girls my age without us really realizing it. <br /> I hope Ann Brashares continues the series to see what will happen to the characters during college.  <br />	2005-04-27
US	14564680	RK6FCRC80MY3K	0380773155	543226706	It Happened to Nancy: By an Anonymous Teenager, A True Story from Her Diary	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A sad true story, about a helpless teenager who is raped	It Happened to Nancy, by Beatrice Sparks, a true story, is about a fourteen year old girl that thinks she's found love, but she is very wrong. Collin, an 18 year old guy, is very kind to Nancy, and he says things that seem to be right. But he ends up raping her, and leaving her with nothing but horrible memories of that night, and AIDS.  I didn't like how this book was written, because it skips around a lot, and it's hard to follow. I also didn't like how some of the diary entries were so long and boring. It goes confusing in some parts, but overall it was an interesting book to read.  <br /> What I did like about this book is, how kind Nancy was, and even though she had AIDS she still cared about other people and always put other people first. Which I think that would be very hard to do if you have a deadly disease like that.  I also liked how Nancy did a good job explaining about AIDS.  Most people don't know what symptoms go along with having AIDS, but Nancy wrote a lot in her diary about things that I had no clue about.  This book had a lot of interesting facts about AIDS.  Another detail that I liked about this book is Nancy talks about other occasions in her life, not just about her having AIDS, but about happy occasions that occur in her life. <br /> Other diaries that Beatrice Sparks has written are Go Ask Alice. Go Ask Alice is about a girl that gets involved in drugs and about all the complications in her life. And how sad and messed up it becomes after becoming addicted to drugs. I like the books that Beatrice Sparks edits because they are all about really bad situations that teenagers get into, and all the books she edits are actual diaries from real teenagers that have experienced these kinds of things. I liked It Happened To Nancy better then Go Ask Alice because I didn't think Alice seemed like she was a very nice person, and she was a lot more negative then Nancy was about her situation.  I also liked the characters better in It Happened to Nancy because they were more positive, and they helped Nancy out with her situations.   <br /> I wouldn't recommend this book to people who are looking for a happy ending or a happy book all together.  It Happened to Nancy is a book about real teenage situations, that aren't good situations. You have to really pay attention to this book, and it does get confusing sometimes, but if you take your time, and really read over everything carefully, I guarantee you will be touched by It Happened to Nancy, and her positive attitude.   <br />	2005-04-27
US	14564680	R38R9NX39GSM7	0060589345	991167923	Away Laughing on a Fast Camel: Even More Confessions of Georgia Nicolson	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Georgia's back and full of Humoristy!	Georgia goes on another fabbity-fab adventure with pals Ellen, Mabs, Rosie, Jools, and Jas, but this time it's sheer desperadoes for the gang. Georgia's problems begin where they left off in Nuddy Pants with the horrifying news of her dearest Sex God moving away to snog sheep in Kiwi-ago-go-land , but her sadness doesn't last long when her red bottomosity flares and the general horn takes hold!  Soon Georgia finds herself falling for the hot new lead singer of the Stiff Dylans. You won't believe the DRAMA that follows! <br />Meanwhile the ever faithful gang has to stick together as two more friends fall into despair. Lets not forget the family either Libby's growing up, Angus has a family and Mutti and Vatti are doing everything they can to make Georgia's life an embarrassment. Vatti (the master loon himself) decides to buy a new reason for Georgia to never show her face to humanity and announces a family vacation! Where to this time I wonder? This time it's all humoristy as the adventure continues in a laugh out loud tale of boys, love, make -up, and school! There is no wonder why anybody would want to read this book with its humor drama and scandalous red bottomosity. It's a perfect link to Georgia's never ending story. Don't wait to read this book! <br />	2005-04-27
US	14564680	R30N3H7JHL08AR	078688200X	65790431	Sacred Hoops: Spiritual Lessons of a Hardwood Warrior	Books	4	3	4	N	N	A Great Book	Sacred Hoops is a verry good book.  It is not just for sportsfans, but for anyone who wants to read a good book.  I thought it was a verry goog book, not just about the game of basketball, but about life.  The book follows Phil Jackson in his march into the playoffs.  One bad thing about this book was it had some big words in it.  I think that anyone who enjoys sports or life in general should read this book.	2005-04-27
US	14564680	R3JSWQ1UR9K6A3	0152167056	324887263	A Northern Light	Books	3	3	5	N	N	A Northern Light	A Northern Light <br /> <br />-\\"To the death, Miss Gokey,\\" he said solemnly. <br />-\\"To the death, Mr. Smith.\\" <br /> Unfortunately, death it was for the young woman who was drowned unexpectedly, a murder that later shocked the small town where we make our setting.  A Northern Light is a story written by Jennifer Donnelly.  It incorporates a true story about a tragic murder that occurred in 1906 that inspired Theodore Dreiser to write his book, An American Tragedy. <br /> We find our heroine living on a farm by Uncas Road in Eagle Bay, a blink-and-miss town even in those days.  Mattie Gokey is a genius with words, but all of her writings seem to become morbid or sad; she told her teacher that she didn't want to \\"lie,\\" that life isn't filled with just happy endings.  Which she knows well since her mother just died of cancer and her brother is gone. <br /> Mattie has a friend in her small town that is going to attend Columbia University the following tear named Weaver Smith.  Mattie's teacher Miss Wilcox badly wants Mattie to ho to college.  Mattie wants to go too, but her father doesn't have enough money, or help, since Mattie's mother died.  Matt had to admit that the reason for her not going went deeper than that.  Would she let a promise keep her back from her dreams? <br /> There is also the problem of a stack of worn letters tied up in a faded ribbon, which fell into Matt's unsuspecting hands, by someone who wanted them destroyed.  She tries to get rid of them, but is continually foiled until she finally gives in to the crinkled notes and whispers that escape them.  Wanting to know their secrets she starts reading them one night very late and discovers the truth of the accident. <br /> The beginning of this book was rather slow.  I think the main characters become real to you, but everyone else you just get bits and pieces like snatches of a song that you can't remember all toe words to.  The author couldn't tall the life history of everyone, but there were so many things left unsaid. <br /> The book also down plays the murder a lot.  The author needed to in order for her own characters and plot to be in the lime-light, but the mention of it was so fragile and almost annoying in it's briefness that you nay wish it weren't even there.  Yet, it's outcomes were a major influence in the shaping of all the characters that it's impossible to leave out otherwise the characters would not be dynamic, but static. <br /> The reader may also think it was hypocritical of the author to glorify writers who told life as it truly was, with all the sadness and to condemn hood authors like Charles Dickens, and Louisa May Alcott for \\"lying\\" when in truth doesn't that mean that she lies as well? <br /> I really liked getting to know the characters, though.  It was easy to identify with Matt even if I could not completely understand what it's like to loose a family member.  The book also gives a good glimpse at what life was like so long ago.  The story has a simplicity that still manages to show the depth of heart and pain the people underwent. <br /> A Northern Light is a fast read which I would recommend to readers who like happy ending and faithful friends.  It was enjoyable and an informative journey through the life of a young girl to imagine what she did and how she survived to save so many others. <br />	2005-04-27
US	14564680	RK5LIMZ8LQI1G	0553074377	506062548	Drowning of Stephan Jones, The	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Drowning of beliefs	The book, The Drowning of Stephen Jones is full of excitement. <br />This book shows you insight into a topic that is not talked about very often,  <br />Homosexuals. This book tells a story of a young girl who gets placed in a very  <br />sticky situation, she tries to put aside her morals to fit in with her friends. It is  <br />a very insightful book. It's a good book to read in just a couple of sittings,  <br />it was definitely a page turner. You will feel so involved with the character  <br />that you wont be able to tell the difference between fact and fiction. <br />	2005-04-27
US	14564680	R22J9ZO9GQKAAC	0152053115	360511751	Now You See It . . .	Books	3	3	6	N	N	An Okay Read... If You're Ten	Now You See It... <br /> <br /> Now You See It... is a book that you would like if you're ten years old.  I thought this book was alright, but nothing set is over the edge, although, if I was younger, I think that I would have loved it.  This book has all the things that a ten-year-old would love; a different world, time travel, magic, and more.  Wendy finds a pair of glasses the make her see thing you couldn't think of.  She doesn't know who she could tell that would believe her of everything that is happening.  There is a strong family bond in this book that the reader will notice right away.  One thing that I did like about this book was that, Vivian Vande Velde, was able to tell the story in a way that you can relate to.  Wendy, who tells the story, lets you get inside her head.  Anything and everything that she thinks about you will read.  She is a typical teen and the author is able to show that by using slang and the interests of the average teenage girl.  I didn't like how the details were drug out because it seemed to lose the point of the story.  I did like Wendy's character, because we had a lot in common in our likes and dislikes about glasses.  I also liked the few twists and turns it had, because it keeps you guessing.  I would recommend this book for younger kids with big imaginations.   <br />	2005-04-27
US	14564680	R181Y7E5YT1IV3	0152046976	259156728	Born Blue	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Best Book I've Ever Read in My Llife!!!	Best Book I've Ever Read in My Life!!!! <br /> <br /> Born Blue has got to be one of the best books I have ever read in my life. It deals with things teens go through like sex, drugs, alcohol, rape, and teen pregnancy.  <br /> I would recommend this book to anyone who doesn't know what a teenager can really go through. It's a struggle being a teen, and Janie (who becomes Lashaea later on) really shows that in her character. <br /> Lashaea is a girl who is in foster care until one day she is kidnapped. After she is kidnapped she experience what life is really about after the people she now lives with are thrown in jail. Lashaea goes on to become a great singer and over comes some of life's difficulties. <br /> If you ever have time and take books seriously, I would really recomend this book. <br /> <br />Lysa Sell <br />Mid-Prairie Senior High <br />	2005-04-27
US	14564680	R3IRH21ZSNCGQN	0786868716	891971809	The Five People You Meet In Heaven	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A touching book that's strong enough to make you cry	The Five People You Meet in Heaven, is one of the best books I have ever read.  It is so interesting.  I got hooked just by the title.  Then I read it and it really made me think and wonder.  It told me that you can't let a single day go by without doing something fun.  It tied in people from where Eddie's lifetime that he has met or that had something to do with his life. They taught him life lessons like, \\"take one story viewed from two different angles.\\" I loved they all had something to do with him if it was a huge thing or just a little thing.  Meeting the five people helped you get a better image on what Eddie's life was like from when he was younger until his death.  This by far is my favorite book.  You could read this in one day it just takes you away into the story.  This is a book you can definitely read over and over because you get a different thought every time you read the book.  It is a good book to help you open your mind to new things.  You may wonder if you life is boring, but it really does teach you to live life to the fullest.  If you are a person who thinks that there are no good books out in the world you are wrong because this book goes out to everyone.  Even if you have different beliefs in religion you can read this book because it teaches you unique lessons.  When I got done with this book I wanted to read it over.  I would definitely recommend this to anyone who can read.	2005-04-27
US	14564680	R1EPPR4VKPUWRI	084230052X	327951572	The Atonement Child	Books	5	1	2	N	N	READ- The Atonement Child	I really enjoyed The Atonement Child. It made me question how strong my faith really was and how I would react if I ever got raped. This book gave me a new and clearer perspective on life, it also made me more aware of my surroundings. I now realize that even the streets near a church, school, or christian college aren't necessarily safe. I definitely think that my faith in God has become stronger since I read The Atonement Child.  <br /> I think Francine Rivers is a great writer, and expressed her opinion on abortion very clearly. I really liked the way Rivers represented each of the characters, and the way their thoughts and feelings revealed a descriptive picture of their personality. I also really liked the way the book flowed, so that we knew what all the characters were thinking. <br /> I think Denah's faith became stronger after she got raped. Even though she doubted God at times she never let anyone make her decisions. I loved the book but I wish that Denah and Joe had realized their love for one and other earlier in the story. I also wish that Ethan hadn't been so self- centered. I think that everyone should read this book, no matter whether you're male or female, old or young I believe that there is a message for everybody. <br />  <br />	2005-04-27
US	14564680	R3IUZFDDCAM6G8	0670036390	927114327	The Truth about Forever (Teen's Top 10 (Awards))	Books	5	2	3	N	N	造*A Grrreeeaaatttt Read!!!!*造	I LOVED THIS BOOK! This book is about 400 pages long, but it was so good that I COULDN'T PUT IT DOWN, and it did not take me that long to read. In this book Macy's boyfriend goes away to \\"brain camp\\" for the summer. This leaves her alone at the library where her boyfriend's counting on her to take over his job as a clerk for the summer. She thinks the summer will be terrible until she finds herself working for Wish Catering Company the next week, and wanting to quit her job at the library. Macy comes home to find an email from her boyfriend explaining that he wants to be on a break until the end of the summer when he returns because he has mixed feelings from an email she had sent him earlier. Then she meets Wes, a boy that works for Wish. She has never meet anyone like him, an artist and a great listener. She starts to wonder if she could ever have a chance with him. Will Macy go for Wes, the boy she secretly wants to be with? Or go back to her old boyfriend who makes her feel insecure? READ THE BOOK AND FIND OUT, YOU WON'T BE SORRY!!	2005-04-27
US	14564680	R229VDUT3O3Q4U	0345478274	13456449	Hard Contact (Star Wars: Republic Commando, Book 1)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Republic Commando is an Instant Star Wars Classic	Republic Commando: <br />Hard Contact <br /> <br /> Republic Commando is not just your stereotypical Star Wars novel.  I would even go a step further to classify it as a Sci-Fi War drama.  The plot is basically this: clone troopers are stranded with little ammo and resources to complete their objective and they must figure a way against the odds.  The book is a great novel because if the book didn't have Star Wars clearly on the cover, you might not know it was one until page 200. <br /> Republic Commando is one of those books that are good when they are good, and bad when it is bad.  For instance in the book the frequent perspective changing.  First it changes between 5 characters the whole book which makes it confusing.  If you're reading: the bunny hopped 3 feet (and all of a sudden), the jack rabbits are getting chased. Times this by 5 and you got pure confusion. You tend to get lost in what the character was just doing if you switch characters too often.  The change fluctuates in the middle but stays pretty good at the start and end.  <br /> One thing that was good though was the detail on all the events, you may get lost on the action, but you can't forget the described environment, packed with detail.  Everything is generally described well.  The events leading up to the end are good, because it contains rising action all the way up until the end, until they meet the big boss. <br /> The book is a good companion to the movies although it is not about the same time as the movie, and has none of the same plot, but in the same universe and great for the people who couldn't get enough of the Battle of Genosis in Episode 3.  The book is also very exciting at the end.  The charge of the fortress is enthralling; the battle is very dramatic and energetic. <br /> Another problem the book does have is the two boring subplots-The Hokan Character is an example of this.  He is the villain in the book, but we do not know much about his intentions and he basically through the whole book is a pest that you just want to skip...but you can't because it is an important part of the book to understand what is being developed.  To name another example is the Jedi character whose name I will not disclose because if I were to spell it, you might think it was a grammar/spelling error.  She is introduced somewhere in the middle and seems to complain a lot about the death of her master, and is a nuisance because she mixes with the troopers story.  There is a lot of interference with the plots.  The characters do not complement each other in the book, from my point of view, but I am looking forward to a sequel if they will make one, and I am sure they will, depending on the success of the upcoming movie. <br /> My conclusion is that the book is one that has a lot of high points, and some points begin to confuse a reader, the book is entertaining and you do want to come back for more.  It's a great companion to Episode Two and a very good Star Wars book in general.  Readers will have little to complain about after reading and it is a delightful choice to read.  The book has great detail, great action, and marvelous plot with a few weak characters and a confusing spin but overall is a great book that I would recommend it to any star wars fans or Sci-fi junkies... <br />  <br />	2005-04-27
US	14564680	R39N1J58JQHSFF	0345447581	112604634	Marque and Reprisal	Books	5	3	4	N	N	New series off to an awesome start	Marque and Reprisal were letters that would be given to privately armed warships, allowing them to attack other vessels and they would not be considered as pirates.  These warships would serve as somewhat of a navy, if none was available.     This is the first book written by Moon that I have read, and it was awesome. The setting reminded me of a combination of Lost in Space and Pirates of the Caribbean.  Traders must rely on the needs of independent planets and systems and outrun the cut-throat, greedy pirates.  And Ky, the young heroine in danger, with no backup, must rely on the protection of a group of stray mercenaries, who have their suspicions set on one of Ky's crew members.       Vatta Transport has been attacked, almost completely destroyed with a single, decisive blow by an unknown enemy, and no one knows why.  Accounts frozen and credits gone, Ky Vatta is fighting for the life she once knew.  On the run from pirates, highly skilled assassins and her other unrevealed enemies, Ky fights back using her military trained mind and her father's command implant.  She is determined to stop at nothing to save her father's, once grand, empire.      I thought that this was a really well written book and it had an awesome sci-fi warfare plot.  I don't think that I will ever be able to put this book down.  This book is awesome and I hope to be able to finish the series sometime.	2005-04-27
US	14564680	R1FLKCLAUZ58DH	0140366679	900054889	White Fang (Puffin Classics)	Books	2	0	8	N	N	white fang report	White Fang Report <br /> <br />This book is about a wolf with a hard life.  He gose to many places and has a lot of adventures.  he is cought and let go. <br />	2005-04-27
US	14564680	R37SRTUSBNZ5F1	1580628362	712773974	Please Stop Laughing At Me...: One Woman's Inspirational Story	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Something to Read for a Good look at your Life	Please Stop Laughing at Me, by Jodee Blanco was a moving story.  Through her ups and downs she tells her thoughts and feelings towards certain people and actions that she was made part of not by her choice.  When reading this book I got drawn into her life story and felt really bad for her.  Blanco has a way of letting you into her feelings with out pulling you in too much.  It is a very good book and has an ending to bring you up out of her misery.  This book shows caring characteristics from her parents and her true friends.  I think the main point to this book is Jodee had to find her true friends before she got a glimpse of happiness in her life.   <br /> Even though the book seems long for readers who don't like long books I would recommend this book to them.  Once you start reading you won't be able to put it down.  If you want to read an inspirational story and are a girl around the age of fifteen I grantee you will love this book.   <br /> I liked this book because her story moved me to try to be a better friend to my friends.  You can't run from your problems because the source of your problem follows you in this situation.  It also helps to have an open mind about the kinds of friends you want.  This book reinforced my thoughts about not judging people and how when you do what you want and think is right your life is reflected onto other people.   <br /> Over all I would have to rate this book with five stars because she does a very good job writing it and covering more than one area of writing.  It is hard to say without giving it away but to get the full affect of this book I would have to tell you to read it yourself. <br />	2005-04-27
US	14564680	R1UM3SHGJU6IW6	0060772522	546311867	Coach Carter	Books	5	6	7	N	N	This book was a slam dunk!!!!	Inspired by the life of Coach Ken Carter, the coach with a tough-as-nails approach. Set in the late 1990s and in California, Carter becomes the basketball coach of his former high school, Richmond High, where he excelled on the team when he was. The team he now coaches has had dismal seasons for years and he's here to bring the team and school to new heights. Part of his approach is to get his team to believe in something and that's education and discipline. Some of the kids on the team come from single parent families and the kids and have to hustle and get by on their own for financial support. Ken's son, Damien, has always played basketball under his father's guidance and transfers from a prestigious school to be on Richmond's team. The first day of practice is a day of reckoning for some players who are not used to being coach by a tough person; and Cruz takes his street mentality to challenge Coach Carter, which proves useless. Kenyon is a good kid and really believes that if the team starts winning, he could be looked upon for an academic scholarship for college. This doesn't go well with his girlfriend Kyra, who might be expecting, and put his future in a tailspin. To achieve success is to have goals, and Coach Carter has each player sign a contract stating that they will attain a 2.3 GPA in class in order to play. Everything is going good when the team starts winning and the spirits are high everywhere within the school, until the grade reports come in with unsatisfactorily results. Not only does Coach Carter stops the team from playing, but he has also locked the doors to the gym, forcing the school and the community to challenge him and his authority.	2005-04-27
US	14564680	R19FRRUUCOCW3R	0440407125	984560457	Guts	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Gut the Beginning	Guts the true stories behind Gary Paulsen's award wining Brian Books.  The book is an interesting read that is informative and exciting.  The book is short, but don't let that fool you.  What it lacks in size it makes up in shear thrill. <br /> The book comes directly from the true life experiences that Gary Paulsen lived threw. Some while he was a sled driver racing in the Iditarod dog race.  Some from his experiences in the woods as a boy hunting deer and then taking it back to town on his bike.  These all come together to make the greatest book written by any author.  He doesn't just tell stories.  He draws pictures with his words.  He tells you for instance how to make a birch bark bowl. <br /> I liked this book because it has a lot of anecdotes.  It's not just one story.  It's a bunch of stories put together into one great book.  Paulsen gives so much detail in his writing, and that's why I like this book so much. It's like I'm there with him.  I also liked the way he described the wood and nature in general. Like the quietness of the wood after a gunshot and that it will never be the same again. This is only one example of this in his book.  You'll have to read it to find out about more. <br /> If you liked this book you're sure to like these to.  Dog Song the book about a lot of Gary's old dogs.  Brian's Winter and Hatchet the book about survival, and the reason that Guts was written.  So race out and try some of these books.  You won't be disappointed. <br />	2005-04-27
US	14564680	R3Q170KVTLYZJ6	0738703915	721984088	Blue is for Nightmares (Stolarz Series)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	造*A Great Read!!*造	Blue is for Nightmares by: Laurie Faria Stolarz is a pretty good book.   I really liked it. It was one of the best books I've read.  It kept me in suspense until the very end.  This book has a lot of suspense and mystery in it.  I liked how it had a mystery character in it and no one knew anything about him, because that just adds to the story making you want to keep on reading the book until you find out more.  Stacy's room mate, who is her best friend, started receiving notes, phone calls and packages from this mysterious person.  He would leave her threatening letters telling and white lilies, which is the flower of death.  <br />I also liked how the author made Stacy have dreams about the stocker that's after Drea and what he's going to do to her and when.  <br />I didn't really like the fact that the author made Stacy wet the bed every time she has a dream about Drea, because it's not really normal.  Stacy is a little too old to be wetting the bed. I thought that was weird to have a 16 year old girl wetting the bed. There wasn't really anything that I didn't like about this book.  I thought it was a pretty good book. <br />I would recommend this book to anyone who likes books with a lot of mystery and suspense in them. This book just happens to have a lot of that in it. I think that teenagers would probably like this book, because it has mostly stuff that teenagers are going through with boyfriends in it.  <br />This was the first time I've read one of Laurie Faria Stolarz books and I thought that she is a good author.  I would give this book 4 stars, because I thought the book was pretty good and it was also strange at times. <br />	2005-04-27
US	14564680	R3EPLB38O939X5	0312924291	363722355	The Westies: Inside New York's Irish Mob	Books	2	3	10	N	N	The Westies: A Renter	The Westies is by T.J. English, an acclaimed author who spends most of his time doing books on the Irish culture.  The book is about a gang of Irish-American thugs that make their way up and down the underworld ladder.  It is done in a suspenseful way, much like the Film-Noir genre of today's movies.  The opening section of the book is the best part of the novel.  It describes one of the degenerate gamblers that the gang deals with.  He is just on a routine day, and then he is catapulted into a heap of troubles with enforcers.  It was one of the most intense sections in the whole book.  It was so exciting; it was almost worth reading the book to get this well written event.  Unfortunately, this cannot be said for the rest of the book.  T.J. English begins his next chapter with some very dull introduction.  After that, he continues with what seemed to be endless amount of pages filled with meaningless descriptions of the setting around the characters.  It was one of the hardest books to finish.  There was one part in particular that illustrates my point very well.  Jimmy is just talking to his friends about some of his daily [illegal] activities.  The next paragraph says the F.B.I. is listening in on a tap.  It was excellent delivery, but the next thing I was expecting was to read more of what the F.B.I. had caught him saying.  I was thoroughly disappointed, as it was describing the van the feds were in, and where Jimmy was located.  Also, it was very wimpy.  The Irish gangsters are brutal, and T.J. English seemed to try to cover this up.  It was very weak.  So you're asking yourself if you should read this book.  I hate to say that this book is definitely one you should pick up at the library or bookstore.  Just read the first chapter, and be done with it.  The rest of the book isn't worth your time or your money...	2005-04-27
US	14564680	R39KHVW2MDP38B	0812565959	882430933	Shadow of the Hegemon (The Shadow Series)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Shadow of the Hegemon	Shadow of the Hegemon is not as good as some of the other books in the original series, but it is nothing less still worth reading.  Maybe that's not fair to this second series of books, because even though they are set in the same world they lack a few of those characters that we knew from the originals.  This should not lead to too much disappointment because quite a few of the old favorites are back as well being joined by a few new ones. <br /> <br />Card has been writing his masterpiece with the Ender series and this book belongs in that masterpiece.  Every time I read a book of his, I realize his genius and ingenuity.  This book is no different.  Card knows what makes people tick and does that quite well in this book.  Card has never wanted to write just a book.  He is constantly trying to teach us something through his very real life lessons that are experienced by his characters.  Card really wants all his readers to think about what they are reading.  <br /> <br />I do want you to realize that this book is only the first part of a story that will continue, because Card once again didn't plan on writing as much as he did.  This book lacks some of the hard-core sci-fi that is present in Card's other Ender books but makes up for with his deep look into a futuristic political climate.   <br /> <br />Card has a way that makes his characters seen older and more mature without meaning to, and I do sometimes see that as a flaw.  These children are geniuses, but they do not I think, deserve the maturity and respect they are given to such a degree in the story.  Very few adults would let the reigns of humanity rest in these children's hands.  I guess this could also be why there are so many Card fans, because he does strain the borders of common sense at points while staying very original in thinking. <br /> <br />I genuinely enjoyed this story as Card once again explores Ender's world through Bean.  Bean and Petra come closer as dramatic changes happen around them.The plot is sometime rather unbelievable at time, but this is science fiction.  Bean archrival is back and hopes to bring the world into turmoil.  Bean has to decide his place in the world as two forces fight for world domination or at the very least manipulation.  This is also the story of Peter's ascension to the hegemony and control of the early fate of mankind.  Peter must overcome all his weaknesses to succeed.  Bean and Peter are not Ender but that doesn't hurt this story at all.  I applaud Card in this fine book. <br /> <br />I do hope that the sequels will continue the story of Shadow of the Hegemon and finish out what he has started.  If Card does as he usually does there will be a lot more books.  He never seems able to write a story with just one book.  I have never minded, and I can't wait to get to the new books. <br />	2005-04-27
US	14564680	R2FYJZ0PO52COT	0440918057	835409261	Down a Dark Hall	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Reviewing Down A Dark Hall	I thought this book was a great book.  I stayed up until 1:00 in the mourning reading this great book by Lois Duncan.  I have read many of her wonderful books and loved each and every one of them.  This book topped them all off.  Her books interest people who like magic or the abnormal.  This book has a scary mansion that I first would have guessed it to be hunted.  Lois Duncan is so good at making things feel like they are really happening and happening to you.<br /><br /> I liked that I feel like I'm the one to really be in the trouble that Kit gets her into.  She reminds me of myself when I get into a sticky situation.  I have to analyze everything and know everything that is going on.  This book will give you the goose bumps just thinking about what really is going on.  What could possible be going threw her mind?  That is all you can think about.<br /><br /> I don't think there is really anything that I didn't like about this book.  You know when someone likes the book when they stay up until 1:00 to figure out what happens in the book.<br /><br /> This book is about a girl named Kit who has to go to a private school.  She is scared to go bye herself and doesn't want her parents to leave her there.  When she finds out there are only three other girls there besides herself she starts to get a little nervous and wants to go home even more.  She finally makes a new friend in the bizarre place.  Then weird things start to happen at her new school that scares everyone.  She starts to snoop around and finds things that she wishes she didn't.  The weird and almost creepy things that happen scare you out of your mind.	2005-04-27
US	14564680	R23SFGEPO3XVSN	1400061849	714772964	Father Joe: The Man Who Saved My Soul	Books	5	0	2	N	N	Story of his life	<br /> <br />     It took awhile for me to write this review. The book is so strong that you would become a believer to what they say. <br /> I have never heard of Tony Hendera. This is the first book that I have ever read of his. The way he writes is strong and powerful. He is and amazing writer. How Tony could bare his soul and tell the truth about what happened to him as a young boy, I praise him for that. He is creative and vary understanding. Tony makes you feel as if you were there understand what he was going through. To tell everyone4 your life story is a gift that he has shared to everyone.  <br /> In the book O liked how there was truth in it. You could see how catholic schools work. It shows how, one boy's life was changed by the help of one man. Father Joe is a priest that everyone would like to have in the world or in there life. It was eventful and describes the littlest details. <br /> I don't like how it seemed too religious. It was a good book, but it had a lot to do with the churches and that didn't really interest me all that much. <br /> Over all I thought that the book was well writen by Tony Hendera. Anyone that can make it a life story and have people love it is, it would mean a lot to the writer. Read the book, you would like it as much as I have. <br /> <br /> <br />  Nikki Seitz <br />Mid-Prairie High School	2005-04-27
US	14564680	R3A39BJMF3WP74	0670035300	976305277	This Lullaby	Books	5	0	0	N	N	This Lullaby Plays On	I really enjoyed reading This Lullaby.  Remy, who has a heart of stone, always knows when to give her boyfriend \\"the speech\\".  She thinks relationships can run on a schedule.  I understand where she is coming from though because her mother, who just so happens to be an author, is going on her fifth marriage.  No matter how wonderful a guy is, Remy always finds something wrong with him that drives her crazy.  Every single one of Remy's boyfriends have been easy to give the speech to except Dexter, a spontaneous musician, who says they have a natural chemistry.  Even though Dexter breaks Remy's no musician rule, she can't seem to get ride of him. <br /> <br />The characters in this book seem so real to me.  They have all the flaws that normal people like you and me have and go through the same problems as us.  My favorite character is Dexter.  I love Dexter's what-ever-comes-my-way-I'll-take-it-on attitude.  He's just so clumsy and foolish, yet at the same time loving and so caring.  I wish there was a Dexter in my town!  The way Ms. Dessen created this book was very clever.  It was targeted for young adults and teenagers like you and me.  I see problems just like these from this book in my everyday life.  I would recommend this book to everyone who is up for a story that will remind you of your own life.	2005-04-27
US	14564680	R1AZ8X7I4NDUHI	0764110853	249975789	Dwarf Hamsters (Barron's Complete Pet Owner's Manuals)	Books	5	38	39	N	N	Hamsers Revealed!	I have always loved animals, and when I first bought my adorable Siberian Dwarf hamsters, it w as no exception. But sometimes people need a little help every once and a while. <br /> <br /> There were many things I didn't know before reading this book. My mother and I  looked up information on the internet, but the websites kept contradicting themselves and other sites, which only lead us in circle after circle. When the opportunity came at school to order any book that we wanted, I found this one and chose it. <br /> <br /> Dwarf Hamsters: The complete pet owner's manual was one of the most informative reading materials on hamsters that I've ever read. It explained in great detail how to house, feed, play with, and raise hamsters. They gave great examples to go along with these explanations, as well as gorgeous pictures of the animals in question. I liked that part of the book, since many of the pictured hamsters looked much like mine. All sixteen of them! <br /> <br /> This book also gave good histories on the hamster species. I liked the tables that listed their scientific names, origin, life span, and appearance. It explained where they came from also and how they act in the wild. That also helps, in case owners need to prepare for instinctive behavior.  <br /> <br /> I liked the pictures of the pups (infant hamsters) also. I enjoy when my female hamsters have babies, and it is so fun to watch them grow up and develop into the adults I own today. The pictures accurately captured what they look like and do at certain ages, and the text gave good tips on what to do when your hamster has pups. Any first-time raiser of pups should follow what is written in this book, even thought it may seem wrong to do otherwise. <br /> <br /> One thing I did not like about this book is the fact that the authors didn't focus on the Siberian Dwarf Hamsters enough. Most of the information about the species was for the Chinese  and Roborovskii hamsters. The book could have used moreinformation on the Siberians, but much of the information could go for them as well as the Chinese or Roborovskii hamsters. <br /> <br /> This book gave nice tips on how to communicate with your hamster when you first purchase it, and as it continues to reside with the owner. For example, they state ways to pick up your little pocket pet in a way that won't startle it. They say to hold it at least a few minutes every day, so that the hamster can get used to your smell and won't be as jittery around you. Another important communication subject this book talks about is how to differentiate a healthy hamster from an ill one. To me, that is one of the most important things to know when keeping these pets. <br /> <br /> All around, this book is a wonderful source of information for first-time raisers and seasoned raisers alike. I would suggest this book to anyone interested in hamsters of all species! <br />	2005-04-26
US	14564680	R2Z9DTCDOILXDL	0553280074	405747157	Goodbye Doesn't Mean Forever (A Bantam starfire book)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Heart Graber	This book Goodbye Doesn't Mean Forever; is about a girl named Melissa and her struggle with getting leukemia again.  Jory is Melissa's best friend and she throws a party at the beach for Melissa, because she was one of the finalists for a National Merit Scholarship.  It is at this party that Jory finds out Melissa's Leukemia is back.  The first time Melissa was able to have chemo therapy but this time Melissa has to have a bone marrow transplant and her brother is the bone marrow donor.  For a long time Melissa is sick after receiving the bone marrow.  To help pay for the medical bills Melissa's best friend Jory has a carnival and calls it Melissa Austin Day, all the money raised and donated on that day goes towards paying the medical bills.  Also Jory is able to get her parents (who are rich) to get their friends to donate money to Melissa's family.  Later the bone marrow ends up taking and then Melissa gets sick from meningitis. <br />I liked this book because it is sad and touching how Jory is such a good friend to help Melissa's family by raising money to help pay the medical bills.  If I was ever sick I hope my friends would care enough to do the same for my family.  It shows me how bad thing happen to good people even when they don't deserve to have this happen to them. <br />There is not anything that I did not like about this book.  I found it a very fast reading book and hard to put down. <br />The author of this book, Lurlene McDaniel, is one of my favorite authors.  I like her books because they are touching and have a lot to do with people with illnesses and real life issues. <br />	2005-04-21
US	14564680	R2FVK1CEOT8M0J	1572230657	93578106	Poetry for Guys: ... Who Thought They Hated Poetry	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Guys do like this!	My high school library has this book, and it's always the first poetry book the guys head for when they need to find a poem. I think they like the \\"manly guy\\" on the front! It's got a nice assortment of poems.	2005-04-11
