US	14613804	RWJAKYL56P8US	0671689746	642069685	Sweet Liar	Books	4	1	1	N	N	The New York Taggerts	Sweet Liar is a good read and kept my interest throughout. Samantha Elliot definitely had a disfunctional and sad life that caused her to be emotionally impaired and depressed. Although her father caused a large share of her misery, he did do one thing right, and that was to send her to New York to meet her \\"landlord\\" Michael Taggart. Michael is a dream come true, one of the nicest (sweetest) heroes ever! I would have been happy with pages upon pages about Michael, but maybe that would have been too much of a good thing. Samantha should be thankful that Michael was patient toward her or she may have never had a chance to blossom into the spunky woman that she truly was. The underlying gangster story adds to the intrigue. The reinactment of the 1928 massacre toward the end of the book was a little \\"over the top\\", but the majority of the book is an entertaining read. Jude did a good job with this one!	2005-09-23
US	14613804	R2KUPF32P6GEX7	0764125303	698427998	Learn Italian the Fast and Fun Way (Fast and Fun Way Series)	Books	5	16	16	N	Y	Molto buono!	I ordered this for an adult continuing education class that I am taking - Beginning Italian. This is truly a fun book - much better than the old French textbooks I had in high school. It is well illustrated, words are spelled phonetically, and it moves at an nice pace (not too elementary, but also not too challenging.) There are no audio tapes, but I have the advantage of a weekly class with an Italian instructor who is from Italy. The book comes with some flash cards and a small dictionary. The list price is $18.95, but Amazon sells it for less.	2005-09-19
US	14613804	R2X78QSMWSJTVV	0671023578	793793081	Remembrance	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Intriguing past-life concept	This is both an intriguing and confounding book. Let me first say that it is hard to put down and when I was away from it, I kept thinking about what I had read. Guess that warrants at least 4 stars. Jude has created an emotional and riveting tale of love and misunderstanding. <br /> <br />It starts out with Jude using her \\"alter-ego\\", Hayden Lane, to rant about the publishing business, book reviewers, etc. I loved the fact that Hayden is a modern 38 year old working woman with a great imagination, sense of humor, spunkiness, and some blatant weaknesses. It is nice that not every heroine has to be YOUNG, STUNNING, etc. etc. The past-life concept makes for an unusual plot, not a cookie cutter romance formula. Hayden discovers that the reason she has not found the love of her life is that there were curses in her past lives and she sets on a quest to find out what happened and how she can resolve them.  <br /> <br />First she is hypnotized and her \\"spirit\\" becomes one with Lady Catherine DeGrey, a 19th century lady. She discovers her soul mate is Adam Tavistock (Mr. DeGrey) who she meets after he dumps a load of manure on her. Hayden realizes there are only more questions in this time period. Catherine and Tavistock are headed for divorce even though they deeply love each other. Now comes the 2nd time Hayden/Catherine is hynotized. This time she lands in the body of a baby girl being born in the 16th century, the era of Queen Elizabeth 1. The majority of the novel takes place in the 16th century, following Callie (Hayden's 16th century recreation) and Talis (past life of Tavistock, her soul mate) as they are born, grow up, fall in love, are forced apart, deceived, etc. etc. This portion of the book is a variation of Romeo and Juliet. The story then returns to the 19th century for a few chapters and finally the last few pages are back to 1994 when it all began. <br /> <br />If this is a confusing summary, just wait until you read the book! The introduction and overlapof the many characters is the reason I could not give this 5 stars. This book spans three sets of characters in three time periods. Several of the characters are interwoven (past-life concept), but it is very difficult to remember who is who. (The title, Remembrance, was definitely not working for me.) It may be easier to follow if you are able to read this book in one sitting as opposed to my on-again/off-again reading style.  <br /> <br />All in all, I would recommend this book, but I would have liked Jude to include a cross reference of all the characters and time periods for those like me who are \\"past life\\" impaired! <br /> <br />After several attempts, I still haven't read a JD book as enchanting as \\"A Knight in Shining Armor\\".	2005-09-13
US	14613804	RMTW98F915LKP	155652532X	829916644	Katherine (Rediscovered Classics)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Subtitle says it all - "Classic love story of Medieval England"	There are not enough superlatives to describe this novel. The 50 previous reviews are not wrong - Katherine is excellent! It took me a long time to read the 500 pages of small print, but it was never boring. When I was finished it was like leaving my best friend. It will be worth reading again to become more familiar with the many characters and places that are introduced throughout. My typical read this year has been a stack of romance novels - strictly sophomoric stuff compared to Anya Seton's writing. Modern day romance writers should be using her classic for inspiration (this could be the textbook for excellent writing). The fact that this novel is based on historical facts and figures makes it even more remarkable. It has piqued my interest in British history, royal geneology, and the like. Don't be afraid to read this book, it will be your favorite!	2005-09-08
US	14613804	R3LGAA4U13LGSC	0425180050	794106396	Line of Control (Tom Clancy's Op-Center, Book 8)	Books	4	15	16	N	N	Fictional thriller	I may be one of the lone proponents of this book, but I have been a fan of the Op-Center series and wanted to defend it. None of the Op-Center books are written by Tom Clancy, but by Jeff Rovin, and I agree it is misleading to have TC's name in large bold letters on the cover. I call these books Tom Clancy \\"lite\\" because they are quick reads and do not get so bogged down with military strategy and techno-jargon. (There have been times I have fallen asleep as Tom Clancy goes on & on about some piece of military equipment). True military affectionados will probably not like these books.    The main characters of Paul Hood, Mike Rodgers, Bob Herbert, and Brett August have developed over the series. I think it would be difficult to appreciate their reactions/emotions, etc. without the benefit of knowing what they have experienced together in the previous 7 books in the series. The tragic loss of so many of the Strikers in Line of Control is more meaningful if you were familiar with their parts in other crisis situations from the other books. That being said, a better author would be able to weave a compelling story without the reader having to be familiar with the whole series.    Some of the reviewers commented on the inaccuracies in this book and that may very well be the case. I am not very familiar with the geo-political situation between Pakistan and India and did not consider this to be a textbook or a documentary. Most likely, a real Tom Clancy book would have been better researched and more accurate.     In my opinion, it was a chilling fictional story set in the Himalayans that passed the time on a hot Summer day. In case anyone would like to read the Op-Center series in order, they are as follows:     Op-Center  Mirror Image  Games of State  Acts of War  Balance of Power  State of Siege  Divide and Conquer  Line of Control	2005-08-21
US	14613804	R21EYA2R33EKFQ	0671737600	306967198	Double Standards	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Not THAT bad!  3.5 stars.	Judith McNaught is an amazing story-teller and she has written some better books than this one, but I didn't think it was as bad as some of the following reviews (nor as good as the 5 star reviews). The story does flow quickly and I was never bored. Her other contemporary romances such as Paradise, Perfect, and Remember When are better stories and go into great depth and character development. Each is a longer book and begins when the heroine is a child. Because we are given some insight into their early life, the reader really knows how the character thinks and feels. In Double Standards, Lauren is already an adult when the story begins (although 23 is still pretty young!) and I didn't feel like I knew her as well.    Due to a desperate financial situation, Lauren is forced to seek employment with a distant relative, who is a wealthy individual that decides to hire Lauren for his own unscrupulous purposes. Although she takes the job because she wants to be near a handsome and intriguing \\"engineer\\" that she stumbled upon at the company, Lauren takes the moral high ground and does not become a spy. Lauren quickly falls for Nick, literally & figuratively, AND who wouldn't? - He was attentive, charming, witty, and outrageously handsome. I can understand how she tossed better judgement aside and became quickly smitten. For a young gal, she is confronted with some daunting situations, for example: Who should she be loyal to - Nick or Phillip?  Should she have a relationship with her boss or not?    Nick has all the powerful alpha male qualities that Clayton,  Stephan, Jordan, etc. had in other JM novels. He wouldn't be cut from the same mold if he didn't jump to conclusions, mistrust his heroine, and shut down emotionally. He is a jerk at times, but so were all those other heroes! Luckily in the end, Nick listens to his heart and drops everything to travel to Missouri where he seeks Lauren's forgiveness. It is a sweet reconciliaton.    There are some weaknesses to this book. It is brief and some of the plot is left hanging. There are no in depth conversations as in other JM books. A more satisfying reunion is needed at the end or at least an epilogue. I would recommend this as a quick read to acquaint yourself with Judith McNaught if you have never read her books before, then go read Paradise and Perfect for some truly in-depth and delightful characters!	2005-08-18
US	14613804	R35O98C7QMDM2P	0671003348	937988197	Come the Spring (Clayborne Brothers)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Audio book review	I have enjoyed many of Julie Garwood's novels, including \\"For the Roses\\", the beginning of the Clayborne series. While I have to admit that I skipped \\"One Red, One White Rose\\", etc. about the other brothers; this one interested me because it was about Cole. He was my favorite brother in the original book. Unfortunately, \\"Come the Spring\\" is very drawn-out and predictable. The title doesn't even apply to anything, except a quick statement made in the last chapter (an after-thought?) Maybe it was just the narration by Richard Ferrone that turned me off, but I found my mind wandering. It was clear to me who the female villain was from early on. While Cole and Daniel were compelling in their parts as lawmen, the romance part of the book is disappointing. After all the passion in \\"For the Roses\\", this book was just lukewarm in that category. Maybe it was because there were too many characters. Oh well, Julie is still one of my favorite authors, but this one is not up to par with her others.	2005-08-13
US	14613804	R2TVJVG4WH1VG0	0743442237	225894437	Simple Gifts: Four Heartwarming Christmas Stories (Holiday Classics)	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Quick reads by the divas of romance!	Four quick reads that are perfect for your wait at the doctor's office or waiting at your child's sports practice.    \\"Just Curious\\" is a touching tale about a woman who is a widow and stuggling to move on with her life alone. Her boss makes her a business proposition that she can not refuse, not realizing that it will lead to true love.    Some reviewers were disappointed with \\"Miracles\\", the story of Nicki and Juliana. Nicki was such an intriguing secondary character in Whitney My Love and Until You (two of Judith McNaught's best sellers), that I can see why fans wanted him to have a longer story.     Those of you who follow the Montgomery/Taggart series written by Jude Deveraux will be interested in \\"Change of Heart\\", a story about Frank Taggart. This is a story of mature love between a struggling single mom and a wealthy businessman. Unbelievably, a young boy orchestrates the meeting of these two unlikely characters and it really is a heart-warming story.    \\"Double Exposure\\" is a prequel to Remember When written by Judith McNaught. It is Corey and Spence's story. I liked it because I was familiar with the characters. It is an interesting, if not bizarre, wedding.    These short stories may be a good way to become acquainted with these fabulous authors if you have not read any of their longer romance novels. Avid McNaught/Deveraux fans will feel right at home with them!	2005-08-11
US	14613804	R1L1Q5H8AL0KYC	067168972X	411049844	The Duchess (Montgomery/Taggert)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Had possiblities	This story really held my interest for about 3/4 of the way and then it fell flat! It has an interesting plot and an intriguing male \\"hero\\" who is not the typical gorgeous macho-man, but a unique and charismatic character.    Claire is wise beyond her years because she has two irresponsible parents who have blown $20 million inherited from her grandfather, an honorable American businessman. Having inherited some of her grandfather's business acumen and compassion toward others, it is her goal to make sure her parents do not waste her share of the remaining $10 million. In order to do so, she must marry a gentleman that her parents approve of. This takes the family to Scotland where Claire is courted by Harry, a very handsome \\"catch\\" who is supposedly the duke of McArran. Claire and her family visit the McArran estate, an old, partly delapidated castle, where they meet all sorts of odd and unfriendly residents. Harry thinks he has \\"won\\" Claire and her inheritance, so he goes off to hunt and ride horses and basically ignores Claire. Bored and restless, Claire explores the old part of the castle where she meets Trevelyan. At first she thinks he is an old and feeble man and has no idea that he is the rightful duke of McArran, as well as a famous explorer/author. Their relationship blossoms and Claire and Trevelyan are perfectly matched in their quest for knowledge, adventure, love of whiskey, etc. She realizes that he is younger and more handsome than her first impression. Unbeknownst to her, he also leads a double life as her favorite explorer/author. There is a lot of mystery and deception about Trevelyan which is a large part of the story. Needless to say, Claire and Trevelyan fall in love (after the requisite amount of anger and angst!). There is a very good love scene, but the reader wishes for more.    There are some sidetracks in this book that do not inhance the story (one which I thought was ridiculous was the character of Nyssa, an exotic beauty who must commit suicide due to the customs of her tribe.) As I stated earlier, the last 1/4 of this book is weak and should be rewritten. Trevelyan is such an unusual and interesting character. I was really rooting for him to rush in and swoop up Claire in his arms and declare his undying love for her, etc. The ending becomes boring and then rushed ... it just isn't very satisfying.     I have read some very good books by Jude Deveraux and this one had some great possiblities because it was different from the typical 19th century romance. Unfortunately, the ending and even the epilogue left me perplexed and disappointed.	2005-08-10
US	14613804	RFUQFR0X2TFOZ	0671016652	349044747	Three Wishes	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Have your Kleenex ready!	Barbara Delinsky is a new author for me and I happened upon this novel by chance. It is a heartwarming book that also has an ominous presence. I loved the small town atmosphere and characters that she created. The love between Bree and Tom was so strong and so sweet - oh! to be able to experience love like that! Bree's experience \\"out of body\\" with the light was well written. If it were me, I would also be wondering if it were real and be kind of unsure about things. One thing that Bree was totally sure of was her love for Tom and she made her choice with that in mind. Like other reviewers have said, I would probably have worded my wishes differently, but then again, fate sometimes over-rules what we \\"would have done\\". There are enough clues throughout the story so that the ending is not a big surprise. All in all, I felt good about this book and will be anxious to read some of her other works.	2005-08-06
US	14613804	R236LYM4UJ3V1V	0671739735	902935920	Velvet Angel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Great ending to series!	I just finished the Velvet series and thought this was the best of the four with charming characters and a great ending. I give out few 5 star ratings, so don't be discouraged by the 4 stars. Miles is totally lovable and its easy to see why women find him so irresistable. He meets his match in Elizabeth and what a challenge she becomes for him! Elizabeth carries a lot of anger and baggage from abuse by her older brother Edmund and a disfunctional family environment. Like Judith, Bronwyn, and Alyx before her, Elizabeth is a strong female heroine with both gifts and weaknesses to her personality. What I enjoyed most about this book was how the whole saga was tied together at the end. Even bad boy, Roger Chatworth, has some redeeming qualities and the reader is glad to see how his part in the story is resolved. Please read the series in order (Velvet Promise, Highland Velvet, Velvet Song, and Velvet Angel) and you will have spent a worthwhile time learning about the amazing Montgomery family.	2005-07-26
US	14613804	R1MOVNL91G6ALC	0380793342	271652627	The Heir (Reid Family)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Audio book review	This book is wonderful on tape! The love story of Duncan and Sabrina has been summarized in several other reviews, so I will stick with the basics. The narrator / voice actor, Laural Merlington, does an awesome job with the voice inflections. She makes an average story come to life. She switches flawlessly from a haughtly British accent for Ophelia, to the sweet and honorable voice of Sabrina, to the commanding Scottish burr of Duncan MacTavish. The unabridged version that I listened to is about 10 - 12 hours long and is good for a long car trip. The love scenes take place toward the last 1/3 of the story, so make sure the kids are asleep or aren't in the car then! There have been some negative reviews of this book, but I greatly enjoyed the audio version and would recommend it to any regency romance fan. The audio version may be available at your public library.	2005-07-16
US	14613804	R36R6P91LLD7P0	0671795554	706034749	Remember When (The Foster Saga)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Not quite fireworks, but still very good!	Judith McNaught is my favorite author and I have read most of her romance novels. I agree with a previous reviewer that Remember When is not quite on par with JM's previous work - Paradise, but it has several parallels and is still a good read. This book is not quite as suspenseful and the emotions are not quite as much of a roller coaster. <br /> <br />Diana Foster was a little too perfect at times, but there were two traits that I thought were especially endearing. She was very loyal and had alot of integrity. She stood up for her step-sister when her snobby teenage friends tried to snub her. She stood up for all her family members and most important, she was very loyal and supportive of Cole.  <br /> <br />The adult Cole Harrison was described as cold and calculating, but several of his actions proved him to be otherwise. I think he fell very hard and very quickly for Diana and that surprised him. The emotions of love did not fit with his logic. <br /> <br />This book has several charming secondary characters. It takes a little while for the love story between Diana and Cole to develop, but it is worth the read. <br /> <br />	2005-07-16
US	14613804	R3PQ6BSP4JMS2J	0671739727	635712327	Highland Velvet	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Strong female heroine.	I'll be brief since there are some longer summaries below. I didn't discover Jude Deveraux until recently and I am still getting used to her writing style. The first 2/3 of this book is very good - 5 stars, but the last 1/3 gets bogged down with some superfluous characters and redundant storyline. I liked Bronwyn - very strong and passionate (and for once a tall, dark haired heroine!). There was good chemistry between Stephen and Bronwyn when they weren't fighting! This one was more satisfying to me than Velvet Promise, the 1st in the series.	2005-07-05
US	14613804	R749MNFWS48BA	0671739743	598069709	The Velvet Promise	Books	3	2	3	N	N	What promise?	I recently read my 1st Deveraux romance, A Knight in Shining Armor, and was totally smitten by that enchanting story and its wonderful character development. It was so awesome that I decided to read the Montgomery series, but found the Velvet Promise disappointing. I understand this is the beginning book of the series and many characters had to be introduced, but that is not my gripe. Judith was a captivating and independent heroine - no real complaints there. I thought Gavin was perplexing because he lacked some of the qualities I have come to expect in the romantic hero. Their emotional connection just didn't come through to me - there was no real romance. Most of the book showed their relationship to be either adversarial or sexual with few intimate moments where they just got to know one another. There was some suspense plus some creepy secondary characters, but all in all I was dissatisfied. After all the emotional turmoil, I thought the ending was weak. I haven't given up on Jude; I just hope the next book in the series is better.	2005-07-01
US	14613804	R2WTW4Y0EZJNIL	0671737627	591607741	Once and Always (The Sequels series)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Great story, but don't read this one first!	There are some very good reviews of this book following, so I will be brief with my 2 cents worth! I love Judith McNaught's writing and this is a very good book - well conceived and convincing. If you are new to her brilliant romances, I would suggest you read Something Wonderful or Almost Heaven first. Although these Regency Romances are all from the same time period and have some common threads, Once and Always is a little darker and more disturbing. The characters are well developed and Jason's cruelty toward Victoria and mistrust of women in general is explained well as the story enfolds. Having said that, there are some very disturbing sex scenes in this book. I think Jason Fielding is the only one of Judith's alpha male characters that can make Clayton (Whitney My Love) look like a choir boy! While this is not my favorite McNaught book, I still have to give it 5 stars for an excellent storyline and memorable characters.	2005-06-29
US	14613804	R3A1BSV6TTG7QW	0553584391	539658459	Fatal Tide	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Audio book review	I listened to this book on tape during a long car trip. This is my first novel by this author and I have to rate it as 3 stars at best, maybe even 2. The main characters were not particularly likeable. On the jacket of the book(or cassette case), it is advertised as a suspense novel written by a woman, but enjoyed by the male audience as well. That is bogus! I'm a female, and even I was irritated by the syruppy emotional scenarios. There is some suspense and a lot of killing, but the underlying goal is romance. Since the romance part is not that well done, I'm not certain which category this book should fall under - suspense or romance. The narrator, Kate Burton, does an adequate job in her voice personifications, but sometimes the male voices sound like she has been breathing helium! Bottom line, don't waste your time.	2005-06-24
US	14613804	R2ET8RBSKARSNT	067187098X	887324024	For the Roses	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Love those Claybornes!	Once again, Julie Garwood writes a touching, entertaining, and witty novel. This story takes the reader from New York to the wilds of Montana and then to England in a non-traditional family saga.  <br /> <br />As a baby, Mary Rose is found abandoned in a basket by 4 street urchins who decide to become a family and raise her to have a better life than they have had. The four boys work hard and strive to better themselves along the way. They seek \\"parenting\\" advice by corresponding to Mama Rose, the mother of one of the boys who still lives in the South. Mary Rose becomes a charming and loving person who likes to help the \\"underdog\\". She is determined, has spunk, and wit. Our hero is Harrison McDonald, a Scottish/English lawyer who is determined to solve the puzzle of the kidnapped baby and attempt to return her to her father in England. Harrison is a tough and courageous opponent in the courtroom. Little does he know that he will not be immune to Mary Rose's charming personality and a wonderful love story begins.  <br /> <br />This book has many great features, one being the letters to Mama Rose at the end of each chapter that give incites into the Clayborne family through the years. This book does not disappoint - I am in the process of reading it for the 2nd time!	2005-06-22
US	14613804	R1ZH0FUHSY8WGH	0440241073	782272714	The Summons	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Audio book review	My husband & I listened to this novel on audio. Michael Beck does a good job with the voice acting and is enjoyable to listen to during a long car trip. I can not rate this book as high as other Grisham works. While he is known for depicting the human flaws and weaknesses in his characters, I really wanted to \\"like\\" the main character, Ray Atlee. However, there wasn't too much I found admirable about him. The main thrust of this story is about greed and lack of trust. The plot is not terribly complicated and is boring in places. There is adequate suspense, but the ending is rather weak and predictable. My husband liked this book a little more than me and that may be a male vs. female opinion. There are only 3 minor female characters in this book and none are likeable. Actually, I think Grisham went out of his way to depict the females as unpleasant. There are many other Grisham works that are superior to this, so I wouldn't waste time on this one.	2005-06-18
US	14613804	RE5EXSB0SIXQN	0671737635	931033724	Something Wonderful (The Sequels series)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Truly Magic!	Judith McNaught does it again! This is Jordan and Alexandra's captivating love story set in Regency England. This novel can be compared to a blending of \\"My Fair Lady\\", \\"Cinderella\\", and \\"Lifestyles of the Rich and Famous\\". The characters are well developed so the reader truly understands Jordan's severe actions & arrogance and Alex's bravery & naivety. There are many heartwarming and humorous moments in this quick read. It is never boring. In addition to the satisfying romance, there is an underlying storyline of suspense/intrigue. If you are a fan of regency romances, this novel will not disappoint. It is especially meaningful to those McNaught fans who have read Whitney My Love, Almost Heaven, etc.	2005-06-18
US	14613804	R26O22COG2FQJ4	0688142877	745711270	Say You Love Me	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Say You'll Write Something Better	This will be brief because I read this book \\"out of order\\" in the Malory series and am not as familiar with this author. While I liked Derek and Kelsey, there was minimal character development and I didn't feel like I knew them. There is limited understanding as to why Kelsey would sacrifice her honor and morals in such a way. Granted, she lucked out and was \\"bought\\" by a nice man who is pretty darned romantic, but I thought the whole scenario was contrived. There is too much superfluous interaction by dozens of other characters and they interupt the storyline.	2005-06-04
US	14613804	R2HR7FJDIJ5EMI	0743457269	386088520	A Knight in Shining Armor	Books	5	3	4	N	Y	The Ultimate Love Story	This is the best romance novel I have read to date ... I would love to give it 10 stars! It is satisfying on every level - great story, great writing, great characters, humor, quick read, etc.    Don't be turned off by the \\"time travel\\" aspect of this book. It is very well done - almost spiritual in nature. The love that develops between Dougless Montgomery (our modern heroine) and Nicholas Stafford (the most wonderful 16th century hero ever) is truly awesome and they become connected by heart, body, and soul. At first, Dougless seems to be a clingy-needy type who feels powerless in her circumstances. Who of us women, when faced with something unsurmountable, hasn't wished for a knight in shining armor?! Her strength and courage unfold throughout the story and her emotions seem so real they are palpable. The antagonists are Dougless' former boyfriend and his daughter, two self-centered and dreadful characters.      Oh, how do I describe Nicholas? ... too good to be true, but yet so real, gallant, honorable, etc. Some of the best parts of the book describe how he becomes accustomed to the 20th century. He also questions some of our modern day customs, \\"liberations\\", and morals, which in his eyes (and then in the readers' eyes) do not seem very wise. He is connected to Dougless on an psychic level - not reading her mind, but feeling her emotions and knowing her better than she knows herself.     Do yourself a favor and buy this book - it is worth rereading several times. I honestly did not want this story to end. This is the first book I have read by this author and I am almost afraid to read anymore. I don't know how Jude can top this one!	2005-05-28
US	14613804	R2GNSID90FLRNO	0671871005	65713554	The Wedding	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Blissful Highland romance!	I have grown to love these Highland romances. Julie Garwood consistently writes entertaining novels, full of touching scenes and humor. This is a very good sequel to The Bride, and the characters from that book also appear in this one.    Conner and Brenna are both wonderful and grow to deeply love and respect one another. There are so many adorable scenes!    This novel has more sinister evil characters than The Bride and the evil is more preverse.     It is a quick read ...ENJOY!	2005-05-20
US	14613804	R3DA2FO6RMEEF5	0671742558	7794510	Almost Heaven: A Novel (The Sequels series)	Books	4	11	11	N	Y	4.5 Stars!	I love Judith McNaught's writing style, her in-depth character development, her intelligent and courageous heroines, and her ability to weave an amazing story. After reading several of her romance novels (some more than once), it is not without much forethought that I've rated this work less than a 5. That being said, a 4-star McNaught novel is still better than the majority of other romance authors. Almost Heaven is a gripping tale that has a good dose of emotion, humor, betrayal, and reconciliation.    Elizabeth is a likable and brave young lady who single handedly holds together her family's estate, pays off mounting debts, and manages 18 servants after the death of her parents and disappearance of her older brother. She proves to be a very hard worker and good negotiator, even at her tender age. Prior to this period of hardship Elizabeth was involved in a scandal that made her a social outcast. Just after her social debut when she was 17 she met Ian Thornton at a party and was attracted by his magnetism. An error in judgement on her part and some careful seduction on his part resulted in them being alone together in a woodcutter's cottage. The impropriety of this rendevous did not hurt Ian because he was already known as a rogue and a gambler. Although shunned by the ton, Elizabeth does not seem to bemoan her lot in life until her heartless Uncle intends to marry her off to the man with the highest title and most money. Due to the scandal, there are few eligible bachelors available for Elizabeth. A secretarial error and fate cause Ian and Elizabeth to cross paths again.    I really like Ian's character and he is perhaps my 2nd favorite among Judith's long list of awesome heros. Ian has all the typical alpha male qualities; however, he is less arrogant and more able to express his emotions than others. He can be cold and give \\"icy\\" glares, but he also has many tender moments and has a lot of integrity and candor. I liked the fact that he knew that Elizabeth was The One for him and he did not pursue other women.    The story moves along quickly with all the twists, turns, and deceit that Judith McNaught is known for. There are wonderful moments at Ian's hunting lodge in Scotland. The growing love between Elizabeth and Ian is so well done and so amazing that the reader feels like they are there! It is well worth the time spent reading this book for the compelling love story alone.    Now if you will permit me to rant a bit ... Why, after a month of blissful marriage does Elizabeth run away with her brother? She and her brother had not had a close relationship. She knew her brother was untrustworthy and did not have integrity. I know that there had to be some reason for Ian and Elizabeth to be separated, but Judith, I need a better reason than you gave us. It did not fit into Elizabeth's character to put her faith in her rotten brother and ruin what she had with the husband who she is \\"head-over-heels\\" in love with! Just a little better explanation would have made this section of the book more credible. I guess the fact that I am still bothered about that part after finishing the book several days ago, proves that this is a memorable book!     Well, other than that little glitch, there is a good ending, a very sweet ending, actually. As an interesting little tidbit - I couldn't help but wonder if the Duke of Stanhope and Ian are distant ancestors to Zachary Benedict Stanhope, the hero from Judith's contemporary romance, PERFECT.	2005-05-19
US	14613804	RQ5P61TJETIPX	0671737791	378094364	The Bride	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Engaging love story!	Although this is only the 2nd Julie Garwood book I have read, I am already a fan ... WHAT TOOK ME SO LONG TO DISCOVER THIS AUTHOR!  <br /> <br />This is a fascinating tale set in the 12th century Scottish Highlands. Alec is a powerful laird of his clan and is used to having people submit to his commands. He is a strong, handsome warrior and a fair and respected leader. He meets Jamie and marries her on the same day, according to the mutual agreement of the Scottish and the English kings. Jamie is young, beautiful, spunky, head-strong, and a very hard worker. She is also smarter than most of her contemporaries. One of her weaknesses, other than her hot temper, is her insecurity about herself unless she is working, protecting, or helping others. She and Alec are a great match - only they don't know it yet! There are so many wonderful portrayals where they learn to trust and eventually love one another. There are some humorous misunderstandings along the way too. There is a little suspense thrown in, but it is far over-shadowed by a compelling love story. I highly recommend this romance - it is difficult to put down once you begin reading!	2005-05-06
US	14613804	R1DEUG4DIJJ7ID	0671870963	378094364	Prince Charming	Books	4	14	17	N	N	From England to the wild West!	I am a relatively new fan of Julie Garwood's and this book is a little different from the others that I've read. This novel takes place in several locations and is a very involved story.<br /><br />Taylor and Lucas are charismatic as the main characters. It takes a little while for Lucas' character to develop; he's a bit of a mystery man. Similar to other Julie Garwood heroines, Taylor is very likable (also young, beautiful, sweet, petite, from a disfunctional family, etc.) There are also some interesting secondary characters. Taylor's grandmother is only in a brief part of the book, but I began to think she was clairvoyant the way she arranged the marriage between Lucas and Taylor. They really were a perfect match! There is a \\"knock-your-socks-off\\" love scene about 2/3 of the way through the book.<br /><br />Although I really enjoyed this story, there were a couple weaknesses that I would like to point out. Taylor's friend Victoria is an unwed mother to be, but we never got to learn who her ex-boyfriend was. I thought maybe it would end up being William Merritt (Taylor's philandering ex-fiance). Also, Lucas has three half-brothers that are mentioned occasionally in the book, but we never get to meet them.	2005-05-06
US	14613804	R32XTTW6LAEN8L	0385490992	454775948	The Street Lawyer	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Audio book review	I listened to Michael Beck read this book on CD. While this is not Grisham's best work, I certainly enjoyed it being performed by Mr. Beck who has wonderful reading skills and voice inflection. This is worth listening to during a long car trip.	2005-05-01
US	14613804	RHZKOE8BX1XJK	074352635X	487696263	The Crush	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Audio book review	This is not as spellbinding as some of Sandra's earlier romantic-suspense novels and I was tempted to rate it 3 stars. However, I must say I thoroughly enjoyed Tom Wopat's reading skills as I listened to this on audio CD. He has good voice inflections and made a mediocre story come to life. On a long car trip, it sure beat listening to radio stations with poor reception. <br /> <br />Rennie Newton was a hard person to get to know and like. She was so controlled and emotionally suppressed that her true character did not show until the end. Wick Threadgill was a cowboy - likable, goodlooking, but a real loose cannon. There was good chemistry between the two, but at times it was a bit forced. <br /> <br />The story was interesting enough, but not up to her previous standards.	2005-04-24
US	14613804	RH8MTGA6ZY7Y5	0671870114	215596206	Saving Grace	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Tis the truth...this is a grand story!	I am so happy to have read SAVING GRACE as my first Julie Garwood novel. It was greatly entertaining and a very sweet story.  <br /> <br />Johanna is a brave, perky, and thoroughly interesting heroine. Gabriel is gruff, powerful, and a perfect hero. Their love story is wonderful - one of the best in the romance genre.  <br /> <br />Although I was slightly confused by all the characters and the author's writing style in the first few chapters, I am so glad that I continued reading. This novel has a well woven story that is compelling and humorous in places. Read this - you won't be disappointed!	2005-04-19
US	14613804	R1VT5CM68PC3DR	0671525832	187406427	Someone to Watch Over Me: A Novel (The Paradise series)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Audio-book review	I listened to this novel on audio while I was cleaning house - definitely a pleasant diversion to take one's mind off cleaning chores. Judith McNaught is one of my favorite authors who I discovered by accident a few months ago and have read voraciously ever since. Listening to the abridged version of this book is probably a different experience than reading it, but I will offer my views anyway. <br /> <br />The reader, Jan Maxwell, does a good job with her voice inflections and emotion. The timbre of her voice is easy to listen to. The story has an average amount of suspense, but the romance is lukewarm. Once again, this was an abridged audio version, so it may not have the total impact as the book. In comparison to many of the other McNaught novels that I have read, this one does not pass muster on either an emotional or character development level. But even an \\"average\\" J.M. book is better than most other romantic-suspense authors. <br /> <br />I thought Leigh was a believable character and it was rewarding to finally have a heroine that was past the age of 30. Michael was a really likable guy, much nicer than the typical arrogant male leads in her previous works. I got a kick out of Joe O'Hara's appearance in this book. He is Matt Farrell's chaufeur/bodyguard from PARADISE, one of Judith's 5-star novels. <br /> <br />While this is definitely not her best work, it is still an acceptable way to pass the time. <br /> <br />	2005-04-08
US	14613804	R1N0WMUEM0ZQTX	0671880608	457314081	Until You (The Westmoreland Dynasty Saga)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Edgy fairytale.	This novel completes the Westmoreland trilogy, after A Kingdom of Dreams and Whitney My Love. I enjoyed the entire series and despite some of the negative ratings by other reviewers, this is a worthwhile read. It is a lighter version of Whitney My Love due to less tension and a quicker resolution; in fact, it has more fairytale aspects. There are some far-fetched parts, but this is fiction and meant to be entertaining.     Sherry is a delightful heroine - earthy, spirited, and nice - too nice for the haughty London society that she is foisted upon as she is recovering from an accident that left her with amnesia. I loved the early chapters about her background as a child on the road with her father in America. It gives us a glimse into her character and makes us cheer for her even more. Stephen is a much more intense man than we briefly got to know in Whitney My Love. In fact, he's arrogant, demanding and sometimes difficult to like - similar to all the male leads in Judith's books. (Actually, I could picture Hugh Jackman in this role, if it were a movie.) It is Sherry's challenge to soften his heart and finally bring out his tender side.    This book takes place amid the prominent British social stratum of the early 19th century. There is ample description of clothing, furnishings, and the trappings of wealth. As with all the JM books I've read, money does not seem to be a problem for any of the heros and they use it for power and persuasion.    I liked the pace of this romance novel and the build-up of emotion and trust is very satisfying. There are obviously some weaknesses to this book as well. It wasn't completely clear to me how Nicki was able to change Stephen's mind about marrying Sherry and it wasn't too convincing. I also never felt that Stephen truly repented for his treatment of Sherry at Claymore and she was too forgiving once they met again. However, the ending is sweet and I am quite sure that this will be a book that I re-read in the future.	2005-04-03
US	14613804	R3K7FY3A46OVCS	0671776096	869998580	Whitney, My Love (The Westmoreland Dynasty Saga)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Hard to believe this was her first novel!	This is the 4th novel by Judith McNaught that I have read. Like the others, it was difficult to put down once I began reading it and hard not to think about when I wasn't. Is it possible for her books to be addictive? I read the special collector's addition which has some enhanced scenes and a new ending from the original version. It is a lengthy book that moves at a fast pace. It is certainly worth the read.    Whitney is often described as a hoyden which Webster's defines as is a woman of saucy, boisterous, or carefree behavior.  While that may be somewhat the norm for girls in the 21st century, it was scandalous behavior in the early 19th century. Whitney is more educated than most girls, says what she thinks, and is captivatingly beautiful (of course!). Clayton Westmoreland, the Duke of Claymore, is powerful, arrogant, handsome (of course!) and accustomed to getting what he wants. He is not a nice man due to his vile temper and tendency to jump to the wrong conclusions, but he is a formidible and unforgettable lead character. How these two meet and the trials and tribulations before they get married make for a fascinating story.     My favorite scenes were when Whitney and Clayton were getting to know one another while play chess or racing their horses. Whitney thinks she will marry Paul, her childhood heartthrob, but circumstances prevent that from happening. Even when Whitney finally decides that she loves Clayton, there are many heartbreaking barriers to overcome. Much later in the book, I liked the scene where Clayton finally resolved that his assumptions were wrong about Whitney and he humbled himself by becoming her hand-servant. I also loved the ending when Whitney was gifted with an antique treasure box, but I won't ruin it by telling you what was inside it! No doubt, there are some very disturbing scenes in this book. The rape scene was brutal and was obviously the most distressing. In addition, Clayton has incredible anger and control issues that wouldland him in jail in 2005, but you have to remember this was in the 19th century. Whether you judge Clayton a villain or a hero, you can not argue he is a memorable protagonist.    Some of the things that irritated me about this story were the large significance that physical \\"looks\\" and social-class level played in the characters' lives. These people seemed to have little to do other than go to parties, change clothes to go to more parties, and gossip about who was betrothed to whom. Few had to worry about working or helping the poor. In the writer's defense, those were some of the same issues I had with Pride and Prejudice and Emma, so I must be guilty of class envy! All in all, this is a fascinating story with strong characterizations. Please read this book and then read Until You, the next in the Westmoreland trilogy.	2005-03-31
US	14613804	R1AG2299Z6OKN8	079279981X	276509900	Standoff	Books	2	3	3	N	N	Best to pass this one by	I listened to this book on audio tape while in the car - a new experience for me. Maybe it's because I prefer reading or maybe  the narrator's voice became irritating, but this was not very entertaining. Sandra Brown is one of my favorite romantic-suspense authors and I have enjoyed many of her past works. Standoff is a light-weight story. Although the characters were together for many hours as hostages in a convenience store, I didn't feel like I knew them very well. The two teens who robbed the store and caused the problems definitely had some psychological issues, but I found myself not caring too much about them and waiting for the story to resolve. It does and ho-hum. Maybe it is more enjoyable in print, but judging from some of the other reviews, probably not. If you want to read a good Sandra Brown, try Witness or French Silk.	2005-03-29
US	14613804	R13LNILP1JPAP5	0671737619	535195561	A Kingdom of Dreams (The Westmoreland Dynasty Saga)	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Spellbinding!!!	This was the 3rd book I have read by Judith McNaught and I am in awe of her ability to create such spellbinding stories. She is able to captivate the reader from the first few pages and it is very hard to put the book down, even to sleep!    I had a little trepidation about reading a historical romance from the middle ages because my knowledge of medieval history is limited, but Judith has woven such a rich story that it was not an issue. I was soon fascinated with the surroundings, customs, and even the old English vocabulary that is scattered throughout. (I did seek the dictionary a couple times.)    AKOD has two of the strongest and most likeable characters that I have ever read in a novel. Jennifer and Royce each have a lot of charisma, independence, and intregity. When they are together the just sizzle! There are heart-wrenching emotions on every level in addition to several humorous scenes. Even the secondary characters are well developed. Goofy Aunt Elinor is a treat. The big strong knights are serious warriors, but also enjoy a good deal of teasing.    Many of the other reviewers have detailed some of the main scenes in the book and I will not go into it here. There are so many wonderful parts to this book. Jennifer's kindness to her new country-folk is eventually rewarded by their growing love and respect for her.    One of the main things I enjoy about Judith's writing is her ability to create such mesmerizing and intimate dialog between the lead characters. Jennifer and Royce are able to tell each other their dreams and share their weaknesses, even before they trust each other completely. I am convinced it is the dialog and character development, as well as the brilliantly woven story, that causes this book to be loved by so many. I am certain I will be reading this book at least a dozen more times!	2005-03-24
US	14613804	RCX8CWTYPX753	0446611085	706464487	Suzanne's Diary for Nicholas	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Very touching	This was the first time I've read James Patterson and I picked Suzanne's Diary simply because it was short and I wanted a quick read. It is a beautiful and touching love story and the diary format works well. The deep emotions, a mother's love, and the lesson of the five balls are all something that I will remember from this book. One minor disappointment that I found with this story was that I didn't feel like I got to know Katie as well as Suzanne, but that was probably intentional on the author's part.	2005-03-20
US	14613804	R1UHIYI92L6QO7	0446600342	351084286	Where There's Smoke	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Hooray for the heroine!	This is an intriguing read and difficult to put down. I have read several of Sandra's romantic/suspense novels and this is one of her best. The story line is complex and the characters fairly well developed. I really liked Lara, the heroine. She is a strong, intelligent, and very kind-hearted woman. There are several evil characters in this book to contrast with Lara's goodness. It is amazing all the challenges she faces and still remains sane! There were several occasions that she could have been vindictive, but she exhibits amazing poise and self-control. I liked the chemistry between the hero, Key, and Lara; although it bothered me that he relied on so much on alcohol to relieve his anger and mood swings. He does have some good cowboy qualities though. This book is good for a quick escape.	2005-03-05
US	14613804	R1SP9TN8RQKIXG	0671795538	936532040	Perfect (The Paradise series)	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	Almost 5 stars!	It took me until the wee hours of the morning to finish this enchanting story, so this review may not be too coherent. As suggested by other readers, I finished PARADISE first and that is good advice. The only reason I did not give PERFECT 5 stars is that I thought PARADISE was a notch above and the dialog between characters was slightly better than this book. PARADISE and PERFECT are the only two McNaught books I have read, but her writing style and character development are so real and the emotions and turmoil so strong that the stories come to life before your eyes. I am hooked after these two books! <br /> <br />Julie is such a big-hearted and sweet character, even from the first chapters when she is a child and attempting to rescue a dead fish from being attacked by the other fish in the tank. Her sincerity, goodness, and fun-loving attitude are just the thing to melt the cold heart of Zach. Oh, but so much deception, turmoil, and anxiety along the way!  <br /> <br />Zach is awesome and made from a similar mold as Matt Farrell from Paradise - strong willed, alpha male hunks! Tall, dark, rich, and handsome with an attitude! <br /> <br />As other reviewers have mentioned, the repetition of Hollywood star names in parts of the book becomes monotonous and somewhat unnecessary. I also would have liked the author to mention Zach's loyal cell mate (oops, forgot his name)at the end of the book so we could know what happened to him.  <br /> <br />All in all, this is a very satisfying read and I am about to buy both books so that I can re-read them again.	2005-02-28
US	14613804	R1AR9VDI31A9I3	0446608653	287482638	The Alibi	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Better mystery than romance!	This book is a fast read and a relatively good mystery. I have read several of Sandra Brown's romantic-suspense novels and have become a fan of this genre. The story line moves along quickly and has similarities to a made for TV movie. Since Sandra usually draws me in quickly and makes me really like and empathize with the main characters, this novel disappointed in that aspect. I had a little trouble believing the \\"love at first sight\\" element of this book. For me, the characters were not well enough developed to find their strong emotional ties believable after only a few brief encounters. It is obvious that Hammond and Alex were both very conflicted, but how did they fall in love when they barely knew each other - lust yes, but love? ...And for being a big city prosecutor, Hammond sure seemed to signal his emotions frequently  - maybe that was a fraility in his otherwise \\"alpha male\\" persona! The other discrepancy that I couldn't understand was what kept Hammond in a prior one year relationship with the other female character in this book (a truly obnoxious person) when Alex was the complete opposite. The ending was a surprise, which is good because I thought I had it figured out. Not a bad read, but Witness and French Silk are better.	2005-02-21
US	14613804	R30S70X06Z03OJ	0671776800	218610853	Paradise (The Paradise series)	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Wow! ... what a rollercoaster!	Are all Judith McNaught's books this good? I am not typically a big fan of romance novels, but after reading the glowing reviews of PARADISE here on Amazon, I picked it up at the library. Oh my, I can truly say that I lived and breathed this novel for the entire week. Even though it was written more than a dozen years ago, it still seems timeless and modern. Not only does Judith weave a brilliant story, she elicits emotions on every level - from anger, humor, lust, forgiveness, and ultimately love. I am still baffled by Meredith's ability to forgive her father after he deprived her not only of her mother, but also her husband. I guess learning to manage her tyranical father honed her for all the later trials in her life. Matt is just too good to be true - I loved his drive, decisiveness, leadership, and tenderness. As another reviewer already said, I particularly liked that Matt and Meredith's conversations had such intimacy, even when talking about business. The only negative I have to say is that the author rushed through several loose ends of the story all in the last few pages. After such detail in telling the story the ending was a little rushed, but that is a very minor negative. I hope you will read this book and savor its magic as much as I did. Guess I'll be reading PERFECT next; after my emotions have settled down a bit.	2005-02-11
US	14613804	R1056VIVGQC698	0446607193	159831924	Unspeakable	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Expected something better!	During the past 2 months, I have read 6 of Sandra Brown's romantic/thrillers and have become a big fan. This is the first time I have written a review. Unspeakable was harder for me to get through than Witness, French Silk, etc. It's a little darker and the character development is often slow. Carl was really evil and some of the crimes were pretty gross. The romance between Anna and Jack developed slowly and sweetly and finally reached a great crescendo! I appreciate that SB gave us some insight into the challenges of the hearing impaired and I loved the way that Anna and Jack communicated. This book is still worth reading, but not as satisfying as most of her other novels in the same genre.	2005-02-04
