US	14741883	R2WEX9FYY9C0HK	0821765221	63212231	Can't Take My Eyes Off You (Zebra Book)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	One of the best contemporaries I've ever read!	First of all I'd like to highlight the things about this book that make it stand out.... <br /> <br />PBS...Eliza on the ice floe...taking an early morning run, purely out of self-defense of a steak sandwich...alliteration on Practical Parker...growling cats...Uncle Alfred...a man that swoons...coasters...and the funniest set of secondary characters that you'll ever read. <br /> <br />Kasey Michaels has won me over.  There isn't a more hilarious author out there for the romance genre.  Her secondary characters are always comic relief and very vital for the story.  I've not enjoyed a contemporary romance in such a long time, and this one had me staying up all night.  Everyone should read this book.  If I have to have one complaint, that would be that her sex scenes are stale.  A little touching and an explosion, and that's it.  But the story itself is one in a million.  I'll will be reading more from this fabulous author.	2005-10-06
US	14741883	R2TQQPAGS6TCXI	0778322092	903472175	The Masquerade (de Warenne Dynasty)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	I agree with J. Peyton...	Five stars is definately not enough to rate this book.  I'm surprised at the bad reviews!  Lizzie was NOT being a martyr when she decided to keep little baby Ned.  Being a mother, I can imagine how she felt when she seen him for the first time and knew she couldn't just have her sister give him away.  The only bad thing about the situation was how she forgave her sister without scratching her eyeballs out.  Anna has got to be one of the most shallow characters that I've ever had the bad luck to read.  Never did we see her after she gave her son to Lizzie, except in letters that she sent at the end of the book.   <br /> <br />Now on to the hero of the novel...Tyrell was perfect.  That's the only way I can explain it.  Such a great hero, like all of the heroes of Joyce's novels.  I admit that I purchased The Prize (the previous book before this one) and read a few pages and got bored.  But now that I've read The Masquerade, I'm going to buy it again!  Romantic Times summed it up perfectly in their review when they said that this book was \\"a powerhouse of emotion and sensuality\\".  I'm glad that the entire first half of the book is told strictly from Lizzie's point of view.  It built her character and showed us how she felt about Tyrell and why.  Plus how her chance encounters with him meant so much to her.  When Tyrell is finally introduced to us, I did feel betrayed just slightly, because she made him seem like a paragon of virtue and nobility.  But I should have known that he would be an alpha male-rogue of the first rate, just because of how she had painted such a pretty picture of him.  To sum this review up, I think that the reviewers who didn't like this book must have been reading the wrong one, because I can't find one incrimanating thing that would make this book that bad.  This is a must read and every lover of historicals should try it out.	2005-09-22
US	14741883	RJKM6HCVVVUPK	0060543256	329679917	Sin and Sensibility (The Griffin Family)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Suzzane Enoch has penned a great regency!	I had bought this book from my local bookstore a while back, and never read it.  However, after getting some advice I got it again but this time from my library.  I'm so glad that I gave this author another chance.  I absolutely loved this book.  Enoch gives you such charming dialogue, and witty repartee from both characters.      Eleanor Griffin is tired of having her three brothers dictate every single nuance of her life, so she stages a rebellion.  Suprisingly her eldest brother Sebastian, Duke of Melbourne agrees to her terms of independence as long as scandal is never attached to the family name.  What she doesn't know is that Sebastian has asked a family friend to watch over her to make sure she doesn't do anything scandalous.      Valentine, Marquis of Deverill does not want to waste his hedonistic days watching over his friends little sister, a girl that he has known since she was quite young.  But, he owes Sebastian a favor and so he reluctantly does as asked.  He never expects that such a pure naive woman would end up stealing his heart with her little rebellion.  But he's so glad that she has.    There are such great romantic scenes between the two main characters.  I loved the scene when they were in the pond at midnight in Hyde Park so Eleanor could finally do something that wasn't quite so \\"lady like\\"...swim naked in it.  Valentine is your typical rake, that gets reformed by a lady of quality, but Enoch does it with such perfection that you can believe that this is how everyone in regency england was.  I loved it, and you will too.  I now have another author to add to my favorite list.	2005-09-19
US	14741883	R1GWAIUCRQERQ1	0380820838	493470499	London's Perfect Scoundrel (Lessons in Love, Book 2)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Four stars because of the heartless Saint at the beginning	This would have gotten five stars from me if it wasn't for how mean and callous that Saint was in the first half of the book.  The only thing that he ever had on his mind was bedding Evelyn, and everything else was inconsequential.  During the duration of the book though, he gradually gets better, and I loved it when the orphans and Evelyn shackled him in a celler to teach him a lesson.  This is very similar to Sin and Sensibility by Enoch but has enough differences to make it original.  Loved all the characters except for Evelyn's mother and brother.  There wasn't anything to endear them to me at all.  The brother kept accusing Evie of selfishness, but he was the one that was being selfish and cruel.  Her mother was a very minor character, but I couldn't stand her either.  I would have really enjoyed a better ending than the abrubt one at the end, but all in all, a great book that kept me up until four in the morning.	2005-09-19
US	14741883	R1HGO6W15DD2ZE	0446605832	322868217	Come Near Me	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A fantastical story that is one of a kind.	After reading some of the reviews here on amazon about this book, I wasn't sure that I wanted to read this.  But I'm glad that I went ahead and requested it from my library.  However, I'm not sure how to put what I feel about this book into words.   <br /> <br />First of all, it was weird.  The story line was odd for an historical romance.  Almost paranormal.  The fact that Adam and Sherry, (the h/h of the story) fell in love in less than 24 hours and were married within a week seemed unreal to me for the time period.  Still it intrigued me to read a romance that was pure fairytale, complete with the Devil and everything.  The writing is beautiful, and I found myself smiling when the story went back in time to when they first met.  Then frowning at how their love for each other had deteriorated when it reverted back to the present.   <br /> <br />One thing that I haven't read in the other reviews is how important the character of Chollie is.  Chollie is the Irish friend of Adam and Sherry.  This character added a lot of comic relief for an otherwise solemn story.  I'll add a couple of things that made me laugh about this character: <br /> <br />Chollie swore that all Irish were born mad as fire to be alive and therefore spent their lives looking for someone to punch, that's why he became a boxer. <br /> <br />\\"Being born is a calamity, marriage an anticlimax, and death looms ahead as a happy release.\\" <br /> <br />So, this story is not only fire and brimstone, hatred and betrayal.  It has lots of lovely moments and the way that Sherry and Adam met is beyond original.  This is truly a one of a kind story that will stay with you long after you have put it down.	2005-09-12
US	14741883	R1FI4KPMHOHNW7	051513449X	453010069	Guilty Pleasures (Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter: Book 1)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	"Some people smoke.  I collect stuffed penguins. If you won't tell, I won't."	In this first novel of the very much addictive Anita Blake:  Vampire Hunter series, we are introduced to the sometimes dangerous, always satisfying world of Laurell K. Hamilton's imagination.  I have already read all of the Blake series and Hamilton's Meredith Gentry series, but I decided to re-read them.  I'm glad that I did. <br /> <br />Anita Blake is a 24 year old, 5'3\\" mexican-german woman who is good at what she does:  raise the dead and slay vampires.  A necromancer and a slayer, and odd combination but as Anita says, \\"...a girl's got to have a goal\\".  Somehow, she finds herself blackmailed by the Master of the City, Nickolaos, a diminuative 1000 year old vampire trapped in a 13 year old body, to find out who (or what) is killing vampires in the city.  She spends much more of her time dodging fangs and bullets than investigating, but somehow she ends up solving the case near the end of the book.   <br /> <br />We are introduced to a few of the characters that we will see in her later books.  Edward, the one that Anita calls \\"Death Himself\\", a bounty hunter who hunts down Lycanthropes.  Ronnie, Anita's best friend who knows that hanging with Anita means she better carry a gun just in case.  Willie, a new vampire that Anita knew when he was human.  A weird character that pops up in future books randomly.  And of course, last but most definately not least, Jean-Claude, the vampire who is entranced by Anita and is determined to make her his human servant.  Without Jean-Claude the story would be moot.   <br /> <br />The thing that I love about Hamilton is her ability to make us readers feel as if this world she writes about could be real.  There is a lot of fantasy but somehow the way that she portrays the vampires and zombies and such, makes us believe that it is possible to live among the undead.  Anita is the perfect heroine for any story, and I'm glad that I picked this book up a long time ago while trying to find books close to Anne Rice's version of vampires.  As you read well into the series, it starts getting a little less action and a lot more sensual.  The taboos that she puts forth in her novels is much more than most authors, but I like that she makes the progression of Anita through the series seem more real.  Her struggles with trying to keep Jean-Claude at bay, and her relationships with all of the characters in general.  There is nothing to complain about with any of these books, so I urge readers of any genre to go out and purchase a few in this series.  It's breath-taking.	2005-09-08
US	14741883	R2VWAH0NDJZI69	0385339143	933103025	Spell of the Highlander	Books	5	4	6	N	N	THANK GOD FOR KAREN MARIE MONING!!!	I've been in a reading rut for a month or so, which is so unlike me.  Then, finally, I recieved this book which I pre ordered for Rhapsody Book Club about two months ago.  This book has snapped me out of my rut, and now I'm ready to read about more alpha males again! <br /> <br />First off, let me say that I've read all of Moning's books, and this is one of the best.  You really can't rank them because they are all THAT good.  Cian MacKelter was born with all the power of the Druids (and then some), the only one in existence that had ever been blessed, or cursed, with all the powers of the Druids.  Betrayed by his best friend Lucan, Cian has been trapped inside a mirror for over eleven hundred years, let out only occasionally to satisfy Lucan's cruel whims.  Then one day the Dark Glass is stolen and placed into Jessica St. James unwilling hands.   <br /> <br />Jessi doesn't understand why someone was trying to kill her.  Couldn't even begin to comprehend that a man had stepped out of the weird mirror and ran after her assailant.  It must all be a dream.  But she finds out that Cian Mackelter is not only NOT a dream, but he is overwhelmingly real.  Running from her assasins, and trying to keep her virginity intact, she goes on an adventure of a lifetime that she would have never thought possible. <br /> <br />There wasn't as much adventure or plot as other Moning books, but I tell ya, this one was very, very, sensual.  I found no problems with the hero of the book, but Jessi was too annoying for my tastes.  Moning has always created great heroines, but this one had something lacking.  There were humorous parts in the book, like when Dageus found Drustan shaking his fist and hollaring at a mirror in the front yard.  I personally thought that Cian was the perfect looking hero:  his long braids (not his whole hair ladies) tattooed arms and neck, tall dark and handsome...sigh.  Perfect for a highlander.    <br /> <br />Run to the bookstore and buy this book.  It's a bookin one of the best series ever written for the historical romance reader.	2005-09-06
US	14741883	R1GAM28NFOKFBM	0671729446	754924816	Heaven	Books	5	36	40	N	N	Best book ever!!  WARNING:  MAY BE SOME SPOILERS!	When I was fourteen, I picked up this book at my high school library.  Since then I've read every book by V.C. Andrews.  Heaven is the best book written by her ever, and you should pick this book up asap. <br /> <br />Heaven Leigh Casteel is the oldest of five children that live in a shack in the mountains in West Virginia.  Despised by her father, and made a slave by her mother, she is destined to be invisible.  Then one cold night, her grandmother Casteel takes her out to the cemetary to show her the tombstone of a 14 year old girl named Angel.  Her grandmother explains that this is Heaven's mother, a young girl who had fallen in love with Heaven's father, Luke when she was running away from her rich family in Boston.  When Angel died, Luke turned into a monster and treated everyone with disdain.  Now Heaven knew why her father wouldn't even look at her, much less show her affection. <br /> <br />When Heaven's stepmother becomes pregnant again and goes through a very difficult pregnancy and gives birth to a stillborn baby, without the support or presence of her husband, Sarah (the stepmother) just up and leaves all the children alone to fend for themselves.  For months the children resorted to stealing to feed the two youngest frail children, Our Jane and Keith.  During all this grief and responsiblity placed on 14 year old Heaven's shoulders, the only constant in her life is Logan, the only person in the world to ever love her for herself.  But then one day their father shows up again to drop a bombshell on them:  he's selling all of them to other families.  For $500 a piece he first sells Our Jane and Keith.  Then Fanny eagerly goes next.  Then Tom, Heaven's closest sibling is sold off next, vowing that he would find a way to get them back together again.  Suddenly all alone, Heaven is stuck with her evil father and a frail grandpa that done absolutely nothing while Luke sold all of his children.  Finally Heaven's day arrived.  But she had a choice of two differnt families.  She picked the young looking couple with the striking titian haired beauty and the calm, sad looking man. <br />Never to see the Willies (that's the name of the mountain) again.   <br /> <br />When she arrived at the home of Kitty and Cal Dennison, she realized that she made a big mistake choosing them.  Kitty was obsessed with cleanliness...and Heaven's father, Luke.  Facing years of physical and emotional abuse, Heaven turns to Cal for support and love.  Only that support and love turns to an unnatural love of Heaven from Cal.  Then Kitty gets sick and they decide to take her to her hometown...the valley where Heaven went to school.  Elated that she could see Tom, Fanny, and Logan again, Heaven went in search of them.  That's when she found out that Fanny didn't want to see her, Tom was a slave to his \\"adopted\\" father, and Logan was still in love with her.  She also recieves a letter from her father apologizing and wanting all of his children to move in with him and his new wife.  There is also a plane ticket to Boston, where Heaven's mother's family is at.  He leaves the decision up to her, and she chooses Boston. <br /> <br />Such a great book!!  I can't even begin to describe the pain, joy, and despair that makes this the best book ever written.  To me it is better than Flowers in the Attic, with more suffering on the main characters part.  Heaven keeps making the wrong decisions that leaves the reader pulling their hair out.  When you read this book you feel the emotions of Heaven.  Believe me when I say that this is a book (and a series) that you don't want to miss.  RUN TO THE BOOKSTORE AND BUY IT NOW!	2005-08-17
US	14741883	R2NNVR0TS6B66K	0671729411	173166968	Flowers in the Attic (Dollanganger)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	My first foray into reading	When I was in high school, all of V.C. Andrews books were in my high school library.  Flowers in the Attic was like the fifth one that I read, and I've reread it probably 10 times since high school.  I understand that some people were put off by the incest between the brother and sister, but it never bothered me to the point where I would never pick up another one of her books.  I think that it was genius to add something so taboo into this novel to show how emotionally fragile children can become when they have to survive horrible circumstances.  Even though everyone likes to call V.C. Andrews a horror writer, I've never seen her books that way.  She delves into the psycology of the human mind and spirit (i'm refering to the books that were actually written by Andrews before her death in 1986) and gives her own accounting of what might happen to someone who is pushed to extreme limits.  The Dollanganger series and her Casteel series are the best novels out there that have been written in the last 40 years.  I've yet to read other books that have made such and impact on my life.  There is not one series in the long line of Andrews, and her ghost writers series that I've forgotten.  I could basically retell every single story book by book in each series if I was asked.  That's what makes a great storyteller, not the style in which they write, but the content that is within the pages of the books.  If you love reading then don't pass up these series:  Dollanganger, Casteel Family, Cutler, and Landry.  The Dollanganger and the Casteel Families are the only books that V.C. Andrews personally wrote (to the best of my knowledge) and they are the absolute best books you will ever read.  So go to the bookstore and pick these books up.  You will not regret it for an instant.	2005-08-12
US	14741883	R3DE1UEF1VBLD9	0064472779	9669590	All-American Girl	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Good escapism for adults	I read nothing but historical romances, until I picked up Meg Cabot's Princess Diaries.  Now I'm hooked on her laugh-out-loud funny teen romances.  I didn't even red teen romances when I was a teen, but Meg Cabot makes her books alive with humor and just a slight bit of teen angst. <br /> <br />This is about a regular named Samantha who dyed all her clothes black to show she was in mourning for all the third world countries that were starving, and so on.  She is the middle child of three, the first born who is the perfect teenager:  a cheerleader who's red hair is perfectly balanced and curled, unlike Samantha's bushy hair, and who is dating Sam's soul mate, Jack.  The third born:  a genius who is supposed to be in middle school but is taking college courses.  Samantha is just a plain dowdy goth girl.   <br /> <br />Skipping her art class, she decides to wait downstairs in the music store for her ride,listening to music and raising an eyebrow over the man listening to \\"uptown Girl\\" by Billy Joel over and over again.  When the two hours are over she walks outside to wait for her ride when she notices the president and his entourage going into the cookie store, which is not so rare an occurence since she lives in D.C.  While watching all the secret service agents escort him back to his car, she finds herself all of a sudden launching into the \\"uptown girl\\" guy while he attempts to shoot the president.   <br /> <br />After suffering a broken wrist and having lots of worries over skipping class, she is now a national hero.  And if that ain't enough to make you totally spaz out, the presidents son could be in love with her.   <br /> <br />Just a great story all around for all ages.  Great for adults who want a break from mysteries and bodice rippers to read a light, fun book.  Buy it and enjoy.	2005-08-06
US	14741883	R22Y67SV87IERQ	0380814021	287069968	The Princess Diaries	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A vegan teenager, a cat that eats socks, and an empire to run..	I've read Patricia Cabots historical romance novels and loved her hilarious dialogue, so I wanted to try out her Meg Cabot novels.  I understand that these are for teenagers and that I, being 22 shouldn't love it as much as I did.  This book reminded me of the letters that I used to write to all my friends when I was in high school, and I loved how she was so liberated and hated instead of embraced the fact that she was heir to a whole country.  There is one passage where she says that her grandmother doesn't like cats because she thinks that they jump on children's chest to suck the breath out of them had me laughing so hard my husband thought that I had went crazy!  All I can say is that this book is much more satisfying than the movie was.  There are a few things that are different, like the grandmother is evil in a funny kind of way in the book, and her father is not dead in the book like he is in the movie.  Still, it is great escapism for adults and I recommend this to women of all ages.	2005-08-02
US	14741883	R3TW582BBU7Z7C	0064472795	287069968	Princess in the Spotlight (The Princess Diaries, Vol. 2)	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Princess Mia is back to make us laugh our butts off...	This book starts off almost immediately where the last one left us wanting more.  There is only so much that a teenager can take, and if finding out that you were actually the heir to the throne of Genovia wasn't enough, or your mother dating your algebra teacher, or a grandmother who would put Satan to shame, then finding out that your mother is pregnant by said teacher will certainly land you in the loony bin.  Plus, Mia is being courted by a secret admirer via email whom she thinks is her best friend Lilly's brother Michael who she has had a crush on for a looong time. <br /> <br />So continues the hilarious series that I just discovered and can't seem to get enough of.  I love how Meg Cabot makes me feel like I'm reading all the notes that my friends wrote me in middle school, and of course the cat that eats socks and, according to her grandmother from hell, will steal your soul if he jumps on your chest.  Such a great series that I'm glad I picked up today at the library.  I've read the first two already today and I'm getting ready to read the third installment.  I found out that Patricia Cabot, an historical romance writer, writes these great books, and I went and checked them out.  I recommend this to everyone, even a romance reader like myself.  Great fun!	2005-08-02
US	14741883	R21IVZ6P1N4UWF	0843945656	683812097	The Switch	Books	4	6	6	N	N	A funny romp....extremely enjoyable	Lynsay sands has moved up on my list to one of my favorite authors.  She knows how to blend humor with sensuality, and where to put the more serious parts in the book.  Her villains are always the last person you would expect and her secondary characters are essential for the plot.   <br /> <br />In this book we are introduced to Charlie and Elizabeth Carland, twins who are escaping their greedy uncle through the window at the inn they are staying at.  Lord Jeremy Radcliffe just happens to see them sneaking out and assumes that the two are lovers and are on their way to Gretna Green.  When they correct him and explain their circumstances he decides to help them stay safe from highway robbers.  What he doesn't realize is that Charlie is actually *Charlotte*, disguised as a male.  After days on the road, Charlie and Elizabeth decide to take up his offer of help and stay with him at his estate.   <br /> <br />There are plenty of funny moments in this book.  For example:  Charlie ends up tied to a bed in a brothel by an old hag who is supposed to be initiating \\"him\\" into the sensual world.   <br />Another funny thing is the fact that Radcliffe is trying to figure out how come he seems to be attracted to Charlie, when he had never been attracted to a man before.  It's funny to read of how he explains the reasons and how he fights it.  I also have a couple of complaints, small really, but still turned me off some.  Charlie doesn't reveal herself until almost the end of the book, and there is one scene where Radcliffe has to dress as a woman.  It should have been hilarious, but somehow, it fell flat.  But, all in all, it's a delightful read.  Fans of Lynsay Sands should love this one.	2005-07-25
US	14741883	RYO7QBP0VF9K9	082177784X	116162102	Forever In My Heart (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	2	6	33	N	N	Might have been good, but for one thing...	I was thoroughly enjoying this book....until the abortion.  I don't know why the author threw something so terribly taboo into a historical romance novel, especially when this is supposed to be romantic and happy.  I was disgusted that the heroine injested the pills that would abort her baby when she could have kept it and faced the consequences of her actions.  Other than that moment, I have already forgotten what I did read of it.  It just totally turned me off.  If you want great funny, tender, romanctic stories then read some of Gaelen Foley, Johanna Lindsey, Sabrina Jeffries, and Lisa Kleypas.  Keep this one on the shelves.	2005-07-22
US	14741883	RJR7TUSRUQHL5	1402718292	64454555	SuperVisions: Ambiguous Optical Illusions	Books	5	12	16	N	N	a great compilation of optical illusions	There are great pictures in this compilation of optical illusions.  Many hidden things and some quite obvious, but a great beach read.  It'll make your head hurt to look at them alot, but it's well worth it.	2005-07-19
US	14741883	R1XV0WJNBO6PSP	1579124666	424399239	Urban Legends: 666 Absolutely True Stories That Happened to a Friend...of a Friend?of a Friend	Books	5	1	2	N	N	I loved this book	I just recieved this book in the mail yesterday, and I devoured it!  I read it without stopping.  I love compilations, and this one is a compilation of many urban legends.  Some you have heard and some you haven't.  But it's a great escape read.  I'm extremely glad that I got this one, and you should go out and buy this book for a beach read.	2005-07-19
US	14741883	R14B35V7L1AG47	0380809281	451484298	A Dangerous Love (Swanlea Spinsters, Book 1)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Three sisters, two men......and Shakespeare	This is the first book in a series by Sabrina Jeffries about the Swanlea Spinsters, three sisters that feel no need or desire to marry.  This is the story of Rosalind Laverick the middle child of a dying man, who invites Griff Knighton to come and marry one of his daughters.  She doesn't know that there is more to this story than her father lets on. <br /> <br />Griff finds this to be the perfect opportunity to find the proof that will help him prove that he is not the bastard that everyone thinks that he is.  So, he swaps identities with his man of affairs so he can snoop about the estate without having to worry about three spinsters vying for his attention.  When he arrives he never thought that these three beautiful women were spinsters, especially the one who holds him at swordpoint when she finds him snooping in her father's study. <br /> <br />With lots of sexual tension and plenty of Shakespeare quotes, this makes a great beginning to this series.  I can't wait to read Daniel's story with Helena, I know that it will be twice as great as this one.  Only a few things that I found tedious in this book.  The use of the word Griffin to describe how much Griff is like a griffin got very repetitive.  Plus the use of the word St.Peter to describe a man's....you know... was repetitious.  But that's only minor details in a great story that is filled with love.  The hero is to die for, everything that should be in a character is in this one.  Rosalinde is sort of \\"too\\" strong at some times.  But, I recommend this one for fans of regency romance, and any other Sabrina Jeffries book.  Don't miss it.	2005-07-17
US	14741883	R347WQW5TU6IVX	006053124X	44138711	It's In His Kiss (Bridgertons)	Books	5	2	5	N	N	Julia does it again!!!	Is there a Quinn book out there that doesn't please???  The answer is NOOOO!!  Gareth was such a charming addition to this great series and I'm glad that he paired up with Hyacinth Bridgerton.  Us fans of Quinn have long awaited Hyacinth's witty and brutally honest character to have her own book, and now that I've read it, I can't wait until Gregory's story.  The mystery in the novel, the diamonds that Isabella St. Clair, Gareth's grandmother has hidden makes the story more interesting while helping the romance between the h/h grow.    Bravo and 10 stars for another great novel, Quinn.    **Side note**         One reviewer said that she emailed Quinn about the incest between characters.  Well, a woman sleeping with two brothers is not incest, if they were her brothers, then yes, that would be.  I just wanted to clear this up for those who read these reviews and who might get confused by this reviewer.  There is absolutely nothing sick or incestual about any of the characters in a Quinn book.	2005-07-09
US	14741883	R6ONJX3YRFNS3	0843953241	393087118	The Chase	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Sooo, funny!!!	I've finally read a Lynsay Sands book!!  I've searched my bookstore and library high and low, and finally found one.  This was a great book.  I've heard only good things about this author so I have been dying to give her a try.  And was not dissapointed. <br /> <br />Seonaid Dunbar has waited years and years for her betrothed to come and get her, but he's never shown up.  When she finds out that he is on his way, she flees to a nunnery to hide from him.  Seonaid has been trained by her family to be a warrior, and she is not going to be tied down by a man who is too good to come and marry her. <br /> <br />Blake Sherwell is an English Knight who has finally come to claim his bride on orders from his king.  He has no desire to marry a Scottish amazon of a woman, but does as he is told.  The only problem is that she has run off to a convent and men are not allowed within it's walls.  What he doesn't expect is to find that the door is unbarred and once him and his men walk inside to claim his bride, he's overwhelmed by what he finds;  a warrior woman who fights with a sword like the best of his knights, and knows that he is in for it bad. <br /> <br />I loved the humor in this story.  It was well placed and didn't make the story seem silly.  Seonaid is a feisty scottish woman who isn't afraid to get her hands dirty (or bloody, for that matter).  I found myself laughing at plenty of the numerous escape plans that she hatches, and loved the hero to pieces.  He thinks that women should bow down to his beauty, and do whatever he says, (and most do).  But Seonaid isn't swayed by any of his charms and gives him a fight at every turn.  Gosh, you don't know what you are missing if you pass this book up. BUY IT!!	2005-06-25
US	14741883	RVEOMHXXJC8FK	0843953721	907826148	Devil's Bargain	Books	3	9	10	N	N	I'm neutral about this book	Devil's bargain is an odd story that fans of Gothic romances might enjoy.  I, personally, am not a fan of these kind of romances.  The eroticism in this book is great, something that I love in a historical romance.  The more sensual the better in my opinion.  But I agree with another reviewer who said that the characters were like cardboard, not showing any potential.  I don't understand how the the viscount and the ministers daughter fell in love, (I just finished this book today, but already, I can't remember their names).  <br /> <br />The viscount takes women who are poor or unfortunate enough to need a rich husband, and molds them basically into courtesans to marry rich old men.  He is doing this because he needs the financial gain that it brings him once they are married off.  The minister's daughter is the seventh and final woman in this scheme.  In one scene close to the end of the book, one of these \\"sold\\" women come up to the minister's daughter and tells her that he can't love, and that everything that he's done with her, he done with the prior six.  It made me feel, at the end of the book when they realize they are in love, that this love was a last resort for him.  That he could have fell in love just as easily with the prior six, not just the minister's daughter because she was unique.  I gave this story three stars based soley on the sensuality.  It's certainly steamy reading.  But really, don't waste your money on this book.  Not worth it.	2005-06-24
US	14741883	R2LES87XASQGUL	0345480090	111700648	One Night of Sin: A Novel	Books	5	9	12	N	N	Twent;y stars!!!	I have read hundreds and hundreds of historical romance novels in the four years since I started reading them.  Never have I enjoyed a romance as much as I did with One Night Of Sin. Foley has definately outdone herself with this beautiful love story.  The passion is first rate as always with a Foley book, and even steamier than her previous novels.  Prince Charming, part of her Ascension series was my top favorite, but now I've changed it to this one.  Soooo romantic!!  Alec was a small secondary character in the previous Knight Miscellany books, not doing much but gambling away his fortunes, and becoming a \\"kept\\" man to Lady Campion to pay his creditors.  I wasn't sure how she was going to make his character work, but, boy, did she make him even better than I imagined!!    Alec offers Miss Becky Ward a roof to sleep under for the night when he finds her asleep on a doorstep...his house.  Becky is fleeing from Russian Cossacks that are pursuing her to take her back to her cousin Prince Mikhail Kurkov, a murderer.  They share one night of blissful sin, but in the morning Becky runs away to keep the gentle Alec Knight from danger.  He follows her to bring her back, but instead he comes across her being kidnapped by the Cossacks.  He defends her and the run off to hide from them on his estate.  There a budding romance begins that neither thought was possible, especially Alec who vowed to never let a woman know his innermost thoughts and feelings.      The villians in this novel are by far the most evil I've come across in an historical romance.  Alec has a gambling problem that Becky helps him overcome.  Man...I wish I could truly express how excellent this novel is.  Foley is the best at what she does, that's for certain.  It's the little things that she describes in her books, the touch of a hand, the easy way that the h/h get along with each other, the way that they hold hands across the gap on their \\"summer beds\\" and talk about their feelings well into the night.I had a silly grin on my face the entire book, it was that romantic.  Yes, there are very explicit love scenes, but that doesn't take away the romance, it adds to it in my opinion.  I loved the casual carelessness and grace of Alec and the strong will of Becky.  Truly, a great love story with two leads that will take your breath away.  Never has there been a greater couple than these two, and it's going to be hard to find another book like this one.  Never once do they let misunderstandings stand in their way.  That's one major thing that I love about Foley's writing...no tedious misunderstandings that keep them apart.  Instead they work them out quickly (and steamy, if I may say!!).  Thank you Gaelen for another wonderful story that I'm keeping on my shelf for future readings.  Twenty Stars!!!!    Holly Marsh  [...]	2005-06-14
US	14741883	R2LZ1AD40SKA5D	0743477707	314943593	In the Prince's Bed (The Royal Brotherhood)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Wow!!!	I read the second installment of this series first, the story of Lord Draker, but I just finished In the Prince's Bed this morning.  Jeffries really deliver's in the first of a great trilogy. <br /> <br />Alec Black has just come back from abroad to an estate that is run down and servants that need paying.  His father died leaving him up to his neck in debt.  The bastard son of the Prince of Wales, he decides that he needs to marry an heiress to secure the future of his estate.  He turns to his two half brothers, also Prinny's by-blows, to help him catch his heiress. <br /> <br />He picks Katherine Merivale, an heiress that won't inherit her money until she marries, a stipulation that her grandfather wrote in his will before he died.  She has always thought that she would marry her childhood friend Sydney, a poet who just won't let go of his mother's skirts and marry her so she won't be destitute.  After a fight between them at a ball, Alec takes his chance and confronts her on the balcony.  He uses all his rakish charms to snare her.  But Katherine has been reading a book that her father had called \\"The Rake's Rhetorik\\" and she knows that he just wants her for the chase.  She agrees to act like he is courting her to make Sydney jealous, hoping that it will motivate him to finally propose.  But, the courtship turns all too real, and Katherine finds herself falling in love. <br /> <br />Even better than the second in the trilogy, In the Prince's Bed is an excellent start for the series.  Alec is a great hero who falls for Katherine even though he is just courting her for her fortune.  Katherine is a bit hard headed at times and slightly aggravating, and I can see why so many don't like her.  But she has plenty of courage and spine, just what I want to read in a heroine.  Sydney is an odd character that I'm glad Jeffries put into the novel.  It gave it a sense of realism, a taboo subject that many don't put into their stories.  I HATED Katherine's mother!!  Such a spoiled, monster of a mother.  I hope that the final installment in this series is just as good as the first and second.  Run to the store to buy this one!	2005-06-13
US	14741883	RR7KN4ZXRLRH5	0743477715	408829674	To Pleasure a Prince (Royal Brotherhood, Book 2)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Suprisingly good	I did not expect to actually like this book.  I've tried a few of Sabrina Jeffries books, and never got into them.  This is the second part of her Royal Brotherhood series, the first one being \\"In the Princes Bed\\".  I own both of these, but read this one first, because the hero of this book is more dark and brooding, more to my tastes.  Surprisingly, I read it in one setting.  I'd never realized what a great storyteller that Sabrina Jeffries is, because I never actually put much effort into finishing her books. <br /> <br />This is the story of Marcus North, Viscount Draker, who is the bastard son of the Prince of Wales.  He despises polite society because society shuns him for his birth and outspoken ways.  This is not a man that rides on the coat tails of convention, but a man that marches to his own reclusive tune, despite all the horrible rumors that his mother spread about him years earlier.  All he wants is to stay at his estate and to also keep his sister, Louisa, safe from the debauchery of Prinny's court. <br /> <br />In comes the beautiful Lady Regina Tremaine, who is determined to make Lord Draker understand that her brother, Simon, is truly interested in his sister and not just trying to acheive the status of Prime Minister by using her for Prinny's own scandalous reasons.  Lord Draker agrees to let her brother court his sister as long as she will let him court her...but he doesn't really expect Regina to lower her popular status in society by showing up at balls with him on her arm.  However, she does agree.  Regina is drawn to his towering frame and finds herself very eager for his company. <br /> <br />There are a few of those awful misunderstandings that historical romances always have in abundance, but the witty repartee' between the hero and heroine make you forget that there are secrets being kept on both sides.  The love scenes are hot,hot,hot!  <br /> <br />There is one hilarious part in the book where Lord Draker walks into the ballroom with Regina and all eyes turned to him, a hush falling over the crowd.  Lord Draker glowers at them all and growls, \\"I've come to devour the virgins...anyone care to tell me where they sit?\\"  Oh, my, I actually laughed out loud, causing my husband who was watching his boxing on t.v. to look at me like I was insane.  That made me laugh harder.  I'm still giggling over some of the things that Lord Draker does in this book.  Sabrina Jeffries makes a man who would be imposing and mean, become imposing and hilarious.  I recommend this book to everyone who enjoys a great regency, really nothing to complain of here.	2005-06-12
US	14741883	R3N2MQPPJEFT3K	0451207289	178033504	The Golden Feather (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Great story	I came across this book quite accidently at the local department store.  It was only a dollar, and I thought that I would give it a try.  Once a rake, Lord Lyndon was sent to India by his father after fighting his third duel of the year.  After four years, he returns to find that his younger brother Harry has followed in his disreputable footsteps.  He accompanies his brother to a gameing hell named the Golden Feather.  There he finds that a beautiful mysterious woman in a mask runs the place. <br />Caroline Aldritch was left the Golden Feather by her late husband.  She has no choice but to run it to keep her sister in her school.  For four years she has run the place as the mysterious Mrs. Archer.  Never has she been attracted to any of the men who come in...until she sees Justin, Lord Lydon.  After his brother gets into a fight and wrecks her furniture, he calls on her the next morning to pay for the damages.  That is the last that the both of them expect to see of each other. <br />Once Caroline sells the Golden Feather, she moves to Wycombe-on-Sea to start a new respectable life for her and her sister.  Then on the day that she arrives, she is stunned to see that Justin has also arrived with his family for the summer.  He is instantly attracted to her, though he doesn't know that she is the infamous Mrs. Archer.   <br /> <br />This story is a beautifully written Regency romance.  There isn't anything wrong with the storyline or the characters.  However, there is only one or two kisses, and no love scenes at all.  I hate to give this a three star rating, but without love scenes, the characters don't seem as real to me.  I know, I know, that sounds so ridiculous, but, hey, I can't help it.  Still, this was a great quick read, and it's a good book to read in one sitting.	2005-06-05
US	14741883	R13BQIOFY3F5DF	0804119740	719225280	Lady of Desire	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Lady of Desire delivers!	Lady of Desire is a great book by Foley.  But it isn't the best that I've read from her.  I said in my other reviews of her work that every book she puts out is original and inventive, with characters that are three dimensional with emotions that you can feel in your heart.  Lady of Desire lacked some of the bang that she is well known for.  Still, this was a very good book.  Billy Blade was a great character who wants this woman to see behind his rough facade and recognize that there is a good man who would love her for eternity.  Billy lacked love and warmth from his father who beat him for the littlest things, and a mother who turned a blind eye from the abuse.  So, he escaped his aristocratic family to the streets and became the leader of the most feared gang in London's back alleys.  Jacinda was trying to escape an unwanted marriage for the freedom that she envied her late mother.  Instead, she runs into Billy after a violent street fight and he takes her to his lodgings, (if you want to call a shack that).  Inside, Jacinda finds herself entranced with this haunted man.  The tattoos on his body entice her, and his easy seductive manner seduce her.  Once he finds out who she is, he sends her back home, not wanting to be part of her scheme.  Jacinda is furious that he would do this to her, so decides that she will forget all about him.  But after being caught red handed at a a burgulary, he ends up in jail.  As a last resort, he summons his father, the Earl of Rackford, to get him out.  His hated father tells him that he will get him out if he will marry and keep his family line from dying out.  Down, but not defeated, Billy agrees.  His one goal in all this is to steal the heart of the one woman who didn't condemn him his lifestyle and who seemed to know that inside he was just a normal man who needs someone in his life to love him.   <br /> <br />Like I said earlier, this is a good book, but doesn't compare to previous novels by Foley.  Something was lacking here, I just don't know exactly what.  It seemed like the h/h didn't spend an awful lot of time with each other throughout most of the book.  Plus Jacinda seemed a little immature to want to live the same hedonistic lifestyle as her mother.  Still, it has the signiture Foley eroticism and a hero to die for.  I love the fact that the h/h don't bicker and fight the entire book, and it's not filled with thousands of misunderstandings that keep the h/h apart.  I recommend the Ascension trilogy (the pirate prince, Princess, Prince Charming) for first time Foley readers who want to give her a try.  This will give you a good idea what most of her books are about.  Just don't pick this one up first if you want a book that is different than all the other historical romances. I give this book 4 1/2 stars for sensuality and great prose.	2005-05-30
US	14741883	R2XNIGANL2IMBA	0451215036	558318212	Lady Midnight (Signet Eclipse)	Books	3	7	7	N	N	3 1/2 stars	Katerina Bruni was the daughter of the infamous Lucrezia Bruni, a courtesan who wows the men in Venice Italy.  After a boating accident, Katerina finds herself alone in the world.  The only evidence that something had happened was a scar on the side of her face.  Penniless, she decides that she isn't going to follow in her mother's footsteps and become a courtesan, she is moving to England to start a new respectable life. <br /> <br />Michael Lindley is a respectable model citizen.  After his wife died in a carriage accident that was his fault, he quit his rake hell ways.  Needing a governess for his younger sister and adorable six year old daughter, he hires Mrs. Kate Brown,(Katerina) a widow from Italy.  There is something about her that makes him want to defy convention and take her in his arms.  The scars that they both bare from their pasts are both physical and emotional, and they find kindred souls within each other. <br /> <br />This book only got 3 1/2 stars from me, because the beginning is execellent, drawing you in with the tragedies they both had to endure.  However, the story just gets boring after that.  There isn't much passion between the two characters.  The secondary characters, (his sister and daughter) take up too much of the book and distract us from the h/h.  Still, based on the beginning of the book, I'm going to try other by this author.  If you like strong secondary characters and an emotional relationship borne of tragedy on both sides, then go pick up this book. <br />	2005-05-26
US	14741883	R1KYVX0PA1OD6E	0425156877	488840472	My Sweet Folly	Books	2	4	11	N	N	Another Kinsale book that I tried to read	I really tried to read this book...really.  I loved the first part of the book with the correspondance between Folie and Robert, but lost interest when he hid in his closet. <br />I've read most of Flowers from the Storm, the only other Kinsale novel that I've read, and lost interest in that because the hero is *too* tortured.  The same goes with this one.  I don't want to read of a hero who hides in closets and who is going mad.  I will give the author lots of credit for language and beautiful writing.  However, I just can't abide all the sorrow.  I want to read a romance that is romantic and happy most of the time, not so sad that it makes me, the reader, melancholy.  I don't like to write bad reviews, but I just had to put my two cents in about this book.  After Flowers from the Storm, I should have known better.	2005-05-24
US	14741883	RWGG3HRXAZ03D	0449006360	894257952	The Duke	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Another ten stars for Foley!!	I'm usually long winded with Gaelen Foley's books, but I've said my praise for Foley and her exemplary work in other reviews.  I will say this:  The Duke takes taboo subjects that you usually don't find in historical romance, and makes it work extremely well. Foley writes perfection in every book.  I've heard other's complain about the *contemparary* language, but really that is moot compared to the exquisite storylines and rich narrative that is in all her books. <br /> <br />This story begins with our hero, Robert, The Duke of Hawkscliffe, a \\"paragon\\" of a man who is mourning the death of a married woman that he never expressed his love for.  The lady's husband tells Robert that he suspects she was murdered by his nephew and heir.  The duke decides that he will revenge the death of such a wonderful lady. <br /> <br />Belinda Hamilton sells oranges on the street since her father is in debtors prison.  On a visit to her father, she tells the warden  that she can't make the payment to him this month.  He orders a carriage to take her home and tells her not to worry about it.  Even though she feels a little hesitant about letting him do this for her, she accepts the carriage.  Her intuition was right, and the next day, he corners her on the street to collect his \\"payment\\". <br /> <br />I assume that no one will think that I am spoiling the book by revealing this, but the payment that he wants is her body...unwillingly.  So, thoroughly ruined, and devastated, she decides that she will become a Cyprian,(a mistress) so she will have a protector and someone to help her get her father out of debtor's prison. <br /> <br />Soon, Belinda becomes coveted by all rich men in town.  Robert finds out that the man he wants to exact his revenge on is obsessed with Belinda, so makes her an offer...become his mistress in name only.  She agrees.  That's where the fireworks begin. <br /> <br />Alot of people may think that I'm giving the story away when I explain about how she becomes amistress,  but based on the reviews that I read before I purchased this book, I was uncertain whether the plot would work or not.  So I decided that I would explain the circumstances.  They are told in the first chapter anyway.   <br /> <br />Once again, Foley pens a tortured hero who crawls inside our hearts as we read each page, one by one.  The heroines are always very likable, not very naive, not very hardened against life.  I've yet to complain about any of the books that I've read by Foley.  When you read her books, you feel as if you are there.  You can see the tears shining in the hero's eyes as he realizes that he might have lost the love of his life because of his pride.  You can imagine the feelings of the heroine as she battles her own pride with the love she feels for the hero.  Whew...I said that I wouldn't get long winded on the praise for Foley's writing, but I just can't help myself.  She has ruined me for life.  I can't pick up other historical's because I compare her writing to them.  Just believe me when I say that you are certain to love this book and any other by this amazing author.  Run to the bookstore for this one.	2005-05-24
US	14741883	R103SC96CLDJTZ	0449006352	249824558	Prince Charming (Ascension Trilogy (Paperback))	Books	5	5	5	N	N	WOW!!!!  Ten stars!!	Rafael, the prince of Ascension, is the best hero that I've ever had the good fortune to read about.  Foley has put so much three dimensional depth in this Apollo-like hero that your mouth will water, and your soul will sigh with longing.  Once again, Foley has graced us with another spell binding story that has everything that a good historical romance needs and more.      We were introduced to Rafael in the second of the trilogy, \\"Princess\\", where he was a carefree laughing man, but in becomes a bitter man because he was betrayed by a woman that he was trying to save from herself when he was 19.  She took his virginity and his innocence, (I know that sounds weird for a man, but that is exactly what she done).  In the beginning of \\"Prince Charming\\", he is at the opera house watching his mistress perform on stage, when he gets a royal summons from his father.  Taking his time he declines the royal coach and takes another, and ends up getting robbed by the mysterious Masked Rider who is stealing from the rich and giving to the poor a'la Robin Hood.    While in the confusion of the robbery, he shoots at the Masked Rider and hits him in the arm.  But, the he is a she, Lady Daniela Chiaramonte, a dukes grandaughter.  Still in the dark of the identity of the Masked Rider, Rafe is bent on finding him and bringing him to justice when he comes upon Daniella after she has changed out of her mask and breeches.  Rafe is besotted by this brazen woman who defies him, even though he is the Prince.  So, he decides that he will make her his mistress, (so like a man...will they ever learn??...sigh).    Daniela cares nothing for becoming his mistress.  All she cares about is getting her two friends out of the jail.  So, she reluctantly goes to Rafe's 30th birthday party.  When she finally gets her little pal out of the palace and places bombs for the other two in jail, she is dragged away by guards.  Thinking that she is caught, she's terrified.  However, Rafe had just spotted her atthe ball, and wants her in his bed.  She is caught in his secductive spell, and doesn't realize until it is too late that he has exposed the arm with the bandage from being shot.  When recognition gleams in his eyes, the explosion from the planted bombs give her the chance to escape.    Rafe is enraged that Daniela is the one who duped him, but he is loathe to let her hang like the criminal she is.  All he knows is that there is something about her that fills the void in his soul, and so he comes to the decision to make her his wife.     (Just a little note):  There was one reviewer that said that \\"his supposed torment was a woman cheating on him ten years ago\\", saying that he wasn't a dark enough hero.  The woman didn't cheat on him, she betrayed him and his father's kingdom by taking the map of the underground secret passages that only the royal family know about, and she sold it to the French during the Napoleanic war.  I just thought to clarify this, because it shows why he went from a carefree youth to a man who is deeply ashamed by being duped and almost costing his kingdom their freedom and lives.  True he is still a \\"devil may care\\" kind of guy in the beginning of this book, but inside he is battling extreme demons over the responsibilities that he has to make as regent while his father is away, knowing that he made a serious mistake in his youth.     This is another shining example of Foley's work.  To me, she is the best writer in the romance genre, leaving nothing out of her books.  She covers everything that we historical romance readers are dying to consume.  Her heroes have hearts from the very beginning and though there are misunderstandings, they are well taken care of before they become aggravating.  I devour her books whenever I get my hands on them.  I've never read a romance novel twice, but I've read all of her ascension books twice, and plan to read them again.  We all need more writers like her to fill the long time void of passionate and tender romances.  Her love scenes are graphic, but very tender, and all the hero's eventually shed a tear or two for the love of their woman.  I sincerly hope that Foley will never go away, and keep penning the great stories that have made her THE BEST WRITER out there.	2005-05-20
US	14741883	R1W5B2MEV3V8QG	0671028227	713263030	Lily Fair (Sonnet Books)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	A dark, dark historical romance	This is the story of Caitlin of the Lilies, a rare beauty in days when hardships were common, and Niall of the Seven Betrayals who knows this more than anyone.  Caitlyn was sent to a convent when she was a day old because of a Druids prediction that she would bring bloodshed to the cheiftain's kingdom.  Conn, the Cheiftain, is a heartless brute consumed by greed for power and infamy.  When he learns that the daughter of the subject of his jealousy, Fintan MacShane, a blind man who is deadly accurate with a spear, could be his downfall, he orders her to a convent saying that it will protect her from the superstitious men of his kingdom.   <br /> <br />Years later, Conn sends Niall to go and retrieve her to bring her back, giving him a letter that he is only to read while she is asleep the first night on their journey back.  While Caitlin is asleep by the fire, he reads the letter and is shocked and dismayed at what his directions are.  He is to murder the lovely \\"Lily Fair\\" while she sleeps so that the prophecy doesn't come true.  The intriqing part of this story, is that Niall actually tries to do it, but Caitlin escapes as the sword is at it's downward arc towards her throat.  As she runs away, Niall is consumed by guilt and disgust at what he almost done, and runs after her afraid that the wilderness would kill this sheltered woman.  An accident with a wild boar puts Niall at Caitlin's mercy, and instead of leaving her would-be murderer, she helps him.  What follows is a story of grief and sorrow that is overcome by their love for each other. <br /> <br />I gave this book three stars only because the whole story is so sad.  There is barely any joy in this book.  The hero is an extremely tortured hero and Caitlin is way to naive.  But, the setting was nice, this being only the second historical romance I've read set in Ireland, (and I've read hundreds).  I quit reading this book after their first love scene, because I couldn't bear to read anymore sorrowful events.However, Kimberly Cates is an extraordinary storyteller.  Her words evoke beautiful images of whatever time that she writes of.  The beginning of this book was very melodramatic to me, but after the initial parting from the convent, it gets better, so stick with it.  I recommend this novel to anyone who likes an emotional read and lots of historical accuracy.  Very, very emotional read.	2005-05-17
US	14741883	R16RI7M2MEA9PI	0373293518	914114218	The Duchess's Next Husband	Books	3	8	11	N	N	A nice sweet romance	This usually ain't the kind of romance that I read:  husband and wife married for years who finally start to love each other.  But I found myself reading this into the night and actually enjoying it.  However I only gave it three stars because when Adrian, Duke of Windmere finally starts to treat his wife with more than cool tolerance, it just seems highly unlikely.   <br /> <br />Adrian overhears his doctor outside discussing his case and saying that he will die soon.  Panic overcomes him and he decides that he needs to work it out where his wife, Miranda is still taken care of.  He starts to realize that he loves his wife and starts making a list of eligible men to marry her after he is gone.   <br /> <br />This is a sweet romance that really has no punch to it.  But, it's still a great read.  I didn't like how cold he was to his wife at the beginning but he comes around in time.  Not as good as most historical's like Gaelen Foley and Johanna Lindsey.  Still,  you should give it a try.	2005-05-13
US	14741883	R1FITYRYDODEO3	0804119759	887712531	Devil Takes a Bride	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Once again, Foley delivers an amazing story	This book starts off with a woman who is running away from an abusive lover.  She is Ginny, an opera singer.  Her lover comes after her and while he is trying to get her to come with him, Lord Stephen Strathmore and his wife and child are in the next room.  Stephen tries to help the Ginny, but gets shot by her lover.  While he is lying there dying in his wife's arms, another man emerges, Lord Carstairs.  Once he sees what his companion has done, he decides that to cover his perverted passion for young boys, he has to torch the place.  Ginny, the opera singer, escapes with the Strathmore's little girl while Lord and Lady Strathmore perish in the blaze. <br /> <br />A few years later we are introduced to the man that the Strathmore's son, Devlin, has become.  He has just come back from travelling the world bent on revenge.  He has finally made a connection of his families deaths' to the Horse and Chariot club.  All he has to do is trap them in a house he has just bought and kill them the same way that his mother, father, and sister died (he still doesn't know that his sister has survived). <br />What he never plans on happening is a letter from his aunt's companion, E. Carlisle, stating that he needs to come post haste to his aunt's side for she is dying <br /> <br />Driven by his grief that the only relative in his life is about to die, he rides hell-bent to her residence...only to find out that it was a ruse that Miss Carlisle devised to make him finally pay his aunt a visit. <br /> <br />Lizzie Carlisle despises everything that the man Devlin Strathmore stands for.  He has been spending all of his aunt's money on trivial things and never had the decency to even spare her a visit!  Once she sees this formidable man ride up the drive with blood on his face and grief in his eyes, she rethinks her rash action.  What follows after is a beautiful romance that was destined to happen to these two great characters. <br /> <br />I spilled the beans about his sister Sarah, who survived the fire, only because it is revealed in the first chapter.  This is another smashing success by Foley that makes us regency lovers sigh and swoon ourselves.  I laughed at some of the scenes in this book, and I sniffled (just a little!) at the tenderness that these two show each other of their love.  I love how Foley doesn't give us a hero and heroine who fight relentlessly, but instead she shows us the courtship and the love that they develop over time.  Foley can't put these books out fast enough for me!!  This is one author that is on my auto-buy list other than Medieros and Kleypas.  You don't know what you are missing when you pass by Foley's novels.  They are a delightful treat.	2005-05-13
US	14741883	R3F8ASZDCIIK8Y	0671032976	869998580	Whitney, My Love	Books	5	6	7	N	N	I can see why this is such a treasured book	I've read the other reviews about this novel and a lot of them are negative about Clayton, the hero in this book.  I found nothing wrong with the hero of this book.  Someone also mentioned that he was a wife beater because of an incident with a riding crop.  However, I read the entire book, and never did he strike her with it.  In fact she aimed for him with said crop and accidently hit the horse he was on. <br /> <br />I just got the special collector's edition of this novel which has a new ending.  I can't help but wonder if more than the ending was altered because of the reviews here on amazon.  I found the hero utterly captivating and a fiercly devoted man.  He felt betrayed a couple of times by Whitney, but when he realizes his mistakes, he makes up to her with words that I only wish men actually spoke.   <br /> <br />This novel begins with the heroine, Whitney, standing on top of her horse barefooted, trying to impress a man much older than her 15 years.  Her father is outraged at all her antics at trying to get this man to notice her, so he sends for her aunt to take her to France.  Once in France, she becomes \\"an Incomparable\\", a woman of exquisite beauty and grace.  She is well sought after by many suitors, but still holds her heart firmly for Paul, back home in England.  She is introduced to a man named Nicolas DuVille who makes her feel more welcome in a world so different from england when she first arrives in France.  I found myself hoping that she would have picked him at first, but that was until we were introduced to Clayton the Duke of Claymore. <br /> <br />One night at a masquerade, Whitney finds herself in a strangers arms wearing all black complete with face mask.  Whitney doesn't like how straight forward this man is with his intentions, so she flees from him.  She doesn't see or hear from him again while she is in France. <br /> <br />What she doesn't know is that Clayton has paid her father's debt's for her hand in marriage.  He moves to England right next to her father's home and waits for her return.  When Whitney finally meets him, she has no idea that this is the man that she met in France who was so rude to her.  All she can think about is how Paul will fall all over her once she sees him again.  And, she is right about that, but what she doesn't realize is that Clayton is watching her, and decides that he needs to court her. <br /> <br />Whitney hates Clayton from the first moment he comes upon her at the stream, and is against his amorous attentions.  But she is drawn to his easy charm and laughing manner.  What happens after Whitney finds out that her father had sold her to pay off his debts is what makes this story one of the best I've read. <br /> <br />Clayton's love for Whitney is so genuine and Whitney's for him.  They go through alot of misunderstandings and lots of miserable fights, but one thing was clear to me when I read their story:  that they were equal in their cruelties and their emotions.  Clayton was no more cruel to her than she was to him.  And when they were nice to each other and loving, it was so real to me.  This is a rare book.  You won't find character's so well drawn, or a love story so real other than Judith McNaught's Whitney My Love.  Just get it from your library if you aren't sure you want to buy it, but definately give this novel a try.  It will stick with you for a long time and when you finally turn the last page, you will give a deep sigh of contentment.  A big round of applause for JM for penning a great love story that will never be forgotten.	2005-05-11
US	14741883	RSQCWYPUR3ZCJ	0449002462	10369433	Princess: (Book 2 in the Ascension Trilogy) (Ascension Trilogy (Paperback))	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Has to be the best storyline ever!!	I just loved Foley's \\"The Pirate Prince\\", so I went and picked up the second installment in the Ascension trilogy.  \\"Princess\\" surpasses the former installment by a long shot.  I didn't think that any book could be better than \\"the Pirate Prince\\" but I was very, very wrong.  This book tells the story of Darius, whom we met briefly in Lazar and Allegra's story.  He was a tortured young man who had seen horrors beyond our comprehension, and was rescued from his cruel fate by Lazar and made his personal assasain.  As he serves his King, Darius finds himself in love with Lazar's daughter, Princess Serafina.  He tells himself that she could never love him because of who he really is inside, but secretly he years for her love and acceptance.  Serefina has always loved her dark hero, who took a bullet for her on her birthday years ago.      As the book begins, Princess is running away from an overzealous man.  As she is running away from him, Darius comes to her rescue after being away for a long time.  The \\"suitor\\" ended up being a spy who was bent on kidnapping her.  The hidden love that they feel for each other is written so beautifully by the author that you can feel every emotion as if you are the one in love.  Serafina decides that she won't let this man get away from her again, so she begs her father to let Darius come with her in the country to guard her.  Darius is furious that she used such an underhanded tactic to keep her with him.  But while they stay in the country together for a few days, their love cannot be detained any longer.    Darius finally lets his guard down and embraces the love that she gives him with all her heart, holding nothing back but her virtue.  They both know that a whole different world awaits them outside of their little paradise.  Serafina is engaged to marry another, and Darius knows that this beautiful woman would come to hate him if she knew who he really is.  Then one night, danger comes to crush their fairy tale, and Darius has togo back to Ascension to root out some spies.      This story has everything in it to make an historical romance reader content.  I nearly cried at the words spoken from Darius' mouth to Serafina when he tells her what is inside him, why she should hate him, not love him.  Gaelen Foley has written THE BEST historical romance I've ever read, and I know that I will run to the bookstore everytime a novel of hers comes out.  She knows exactly the kind of hero that us historical romance readers long for and pens them with such great personal struggles and leaves us wanting more when we regretfully have to turn the last page of the book.  You don't know what you are missing if you don't buy this book.  It is in every way different from other historial's in the way that the hero and heroine don't fight their feelings for one another the entire book.  Don't skip this book at the bookstore, but buy it and every one that Gaelen Foley has written.  You will definately be very happy that you did.	2005-05-05
US	14741883	RW886T69C7P6H	0451406508	938470489	White Heather (Topaz Historical Romance)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A beautiful love story with plenty of mystery	After a brief hiatus from reading, I came across this book in my library.  Now, I can't wait to find the rest of the series.  This story has great plot and characters, with an abundance of tragedy and a great hero and heroine that were made for each other.  White Heather is the story of Catriona MacBryan and Robert, Lord Devonbrook, who after a fire killed his entire family became the Duke Of DevonBrook.  The struggle that the hero goes through with his blindness from the fire is heartwrenching at times.  Catriona is determined to make him love and enjoy life again.  She teaches him that even though he can't see, he can still do the same things he always have if he sees with his heart.  I really liked the fact that they became friends first and remained that way throughout all the things that befell them. That is what a real relationship is based on..friendship.  I cried when something horrible happened, and I laughed when she pushed him in the water.  Just a good time all around.  One of the best Scottish romances around.	2005-04-27
US	14741883	R3CD1T8GTEQHB8	1893951731	29981548	Ripley's Believe It or Not	Books	5	3	4	N	N	I just love useless facts!!!	I got this through the mail expecting to only look at the pictures, because reading anything other than historical romance isn't my thing (haha).  But I spent two days reading this.  It was so entertaining.  I've seen the show LOTS of times, but reading all of these facts was a lot more fun.  I've noticed the repeated fact that another reviewer wrote about.  I also ordered the Guiness Book of World Records after Ripley's because now I've a new love...useless facts.  I recommend this book to everyone, it's just pure fun all the way around.	2005-04-26
US	14741883	R3CSQHEV0QFNNP	0312964897	223748516	Where Roses Grow Wild	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Humor that was not overdone (3.5)	I liked the subtle, but witty, humor in this book.  It just skirted the four star mark, because after a great beginning the middle drags, but then it picks up again.  This is the story of Edward and Pegeen.  There relationship is tumultuous and sexy, but I didn't like the fact that Pegeen was so dead set against letting  her nephew Jeremy take advantage of his dukedom, instead she would have rather let them both starve the coming winter.  Thankfully though this didn't go on long in the story and she relents.  One thing that stayed with me throughout the book was when Edward carries her into his home for the first time someone mistakes her for a girl named Maggie.  It didn't seem like much to me until I read later in the book that this Maggie was a five year old girl.  I sincerely hope that the author didn't catch herself writing like that.  I don't like to think of the heroine being compared to a five year old girl in looks.   <br />I did enjoy the book to an extent.  I liked that Pegeen smacked Edward a couple of times after he took liberties with her.  It was nice to see a heroine who wasn't afraid to unsheathe her claws.  I'm looking forward to reading the next book in this series about Pegeen's nephew Jeremy, the Duke, and the little girl that we were never introduced to, Maggie.  I hope that it's a little better than this one was.	2005-04-22
US	14741883	RZ1XXIS2S7FWE	0804119791	5039678	Ecstasy (Notorious)	Books	3	8	10	N	N	Good historical, bad plot (kind of)	First of all, I'd like to say that I really enjoyed this book.  It was hot enough to make me blush and I actually enjoyed the story.  Raven Kendrick has vowed never to love anyone, because she watched her mother pine after a man she loved but couldn't have.  On the day of her wedding to a Duke that is comfortably boring enough for her, she is kidnapped by Sean Lasseter, a spurned suitor of hers that is bent on some kind of twisted revenge.   While she is tied up and drugged, Kell Lasseter, the kidnapper's brother, calms Sean down and takes over the situation.  When Raven wakes up the next day, she realizes that she has been ruined.  Seeing no other way out, she accepts the proposal from Kell to keep her reputation. <br /> <br />There are a few things that I really didn't like about this book, which is why it didn't get a five star rating from me. <br /> <br />First, the fact that she was kidnapped and tied to a bed and drugged seems like a logical explanation as to why she missed her wedding.  However, her and her family come up with a totally different story to keep her reputation intact since she passed the night in a room with a man.  Now, correct me if I'm wrong, but doesn't it seem like she should have just stuck to the real story instead of coming up with a lie??  I don't know a lot about the aristocracy of regency England, but a lady getting kidnapped should be a reasonable explanation as to why she spent the night in a man's house and missed her wedding.  It shouldn't ruin her. <br />Secondly, after she married Kell, she still kept herself from loving him because of how her mother suffered.  It seems ridiculous to me that she would hold herself back for so long because of this reason.  Her mother had been in love with a married man that she couldn't have, yet Raven is married to the man that she desperately kept herself from loving.   <br />Thirdly:  she didn't press charges when she had the chance against Sean, her kidnapper.  I realize that there wouldn'treally be a story if she did, but, come on!!  I want to have a little bit of reality in a romance, not just fiction.   <br /> <br />These seem like little things, but they did bother me.  If not for these small problems, I would have given it at least a four.  I don't want to discourage anyone from reading this, I just thought that it needed to be pointed out for anyone who would rather read an historical romance with good plot.  However, if you like your romances with a hot couple, then pick this book up.  It's very steamy and very fulfilling in that regard.	2005-04-21
US	14741883	R373HQ7UTD24R9	0821772406	660670106	Strictly Forbidden (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A great read	Strictly Forbidden hooked me from the first chapter.  I really liked the storyline and the characters.  The love that grew between Gavin and Kira was intersting to see develop throughout the pages.  There were a few things that I didn't like and one of them was his uppity attitude.  He was so worried about scandal that he shunned any emotion other than a cold shoulder towards everyone.  His concern for his aunt's \\"sensibilities\\" really made me want to pull my hair out.  Plus, \\"the Dagget Curse\\"  was so nerve racking to hear over and over again.   <br />Another thing is the fact that everyone was so mean to Kira Melbourne.  Over and over again, she was hearing people talk about her and even Gavin, who she loved was always trampling on her emotions. <br />I know it sounds like I didn't enjoy this book, but I really did like it.  I just found a few things that I thought the book could have done without.  Shelley Bradley is a great writer, and I hope that I can find some more books by her that will grab my attention like this one did.	2005-04-19
US	14741883	R26HC33VC2TG5Q	0843949767	233747283	Sweet Deceit	Books	5	1	1	N	N	What a story!!	Who would have thought that such a storyline could actually be made into such a great story.  Sweet Deceit has no flaws that I could find.  Diana Rainville was a perfect heroine with plenty of moral fibre and Gavin Winslow was a hero with passion enough for the both of them.  I like the fact that she didn't go meekly through with the absurd plan that her dying husband came up with.  Instead she fought for what she thought was morally right in the eyes of God.  Because her husband, the Duke of Wimberly, couldn't pursue his \\"husbandly rights\\", he asks his nephew to produce an heir with his lovely wife.  Feigning near death, they finally succumb to his wishes.  What happens throughout the rest of the story is the struggle between a love that has to wait, and a love that has to triumph over the evil in their lives.  This is an excellent regency.  Unlike a lot of the other regency writers out there, this has lots of emotional depth and not alot of whining and fighting.  Ten stars if I could.	2005-04-15
US	14741883	R22G1YUW3ZZFVP	044022389X	342719929	The Sound of Snow	Books	4	10	10	N	N	A very good historical romance	The Sound Of Snow kept me up most of the night.  I really didn't want to put it down.  Katherine Kingsley knows how to write a romance that will warm your soul. <br /> <br />This is the story of Joanna and Guy de Salis.  Because of a scandal, Joanna decides to leave her home with her aunt and uncle instead of being trapped in an unwanted marriage.  A few years pass and her beloved cousin Lydia is dead.  She makes her way from Italy back to London to take care of her nephew Miles.  What she finds is a young boy who never talks and shows no emotion.   <br /> <br />She meets Lydia's husband Guy de Salis and becomes confused by how gracious and tortured he seems.  She is drawn to him despite all her cousin's letters stating that he is an overbearing beast of a man who holds no love for his son.  She soon realizes that he dearly loves his son and that he is a man of honor. <br /> <br />I thoroughly enjoyed this book.  It had a subtle poetic quality and plenty of deep love.  It also had quite a twist in the story.  Her writing is different than some of the authors that I'm used to reading, so it took a little getting used to, but I'm glad that I gave this book a chance.  I look forward to reading more of her novels.	2005-04-14
US	14741883	R1S5ZISDAMJ1OG	0449002470	900263604	The Pirate Prince (Ascension Trilogy (Paperback))	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Where has this book been all my life??	I picked this book up at the bookstore because I had read Foley's Born in Fire and Born In Ice.  I wasn't expecting to read a book that was any different than other historical romances.  Boy, was I wrong. <br /> <br />Lazar di Fiore is the only survivor of his royal family that were betrayed and murdered.  He just so happens to be a prince, too.  He has traveled back to his homeland of Ascension for revenge against the governor of the island for orchestrating the murders.  His plan is to kidnap his daughter and murder her in front of him.  However he ends up rescuing her from her over zealous betrothed.  After an intense fight, Lazar sweeps her on his horse and kidnaps her. <br /> <br />Allegra Monteverdi is the daughter of the governor of Ascension.  She finds herself on the back of a horse with some stranger that has defended her honor.  He takes her into tunnels that only a royal would know about...or a thief.  She had always believed that her prince charming would come and save Ascension from it's downfall.  Instead she finds herself kidnapped and put through a battle of vengeance.  Her anonymous kidnapper has lined up her whole family for execution for a vendetta she doesn't understand.   <br /> <br />Her tears and innocent looks keeps Lazar from killing her or her family.  Instead he takes her with him as trade for her families lives.  What follows is a love that is made from hardship, trust, and passion. <br /> <br />I've never in my life read a novel that is so imaginative.  You can smell the fire from the battles and see the anguish on the tortured hero's face as he struggles with his inner demons.  This book reads like a movie.  From the first page you are drawn into the emotions of Lazar and Allegra.  If you want to read an historical romance with deep feeling and vivid imagery, then pick up this book, or any of Gaelen Foley's books.  I promise that you will never forget these characters.	2005-04-07
US	14741883	R1S0AGHF5C6RK	0060565411	391323981	A Dark Champion (Brotherhood of the Sword, Book 1)	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Not as good as her other works	I enjoyed Born in Sin, the first Macgregor book I had read.  But this one is a little lacking in a few things.  I agree with another reviewer that if there wasn't mention of a few medieval phrases and jousts, then I would have thought that I was actually reading a contemporary.      I have always liked her witty and humorous dialogue.  Plus there is a tickle scene and I found myself smiling at how endearing the scene was.  Stryder despises all women who are minstrels because of his mother.  Rowena despises all knights because her father was murdered.  But when they vow to become friends to keep marriage away, they can't help but to fall in love.  And when they finally admit their love, you believe in it.  They go through alot of things in this book that strengthen their love for one another.  There is only one big gripe that I have with this novel, and that is the fact that Elizabeth's murder is never solved or explained.  It's not the best Macgregor book, but I'm giving it a three because the romance was superb.	2005-04-06
US	14741883	R3ASFYHY4HXILP	0821777106	262238942	Seducing The Prince (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Royal love	Regina Bradford was pawned off in a marriage to a broke Earl by her father Reginald.  Regina's husband, Charles, just happens to have Princess Adele as a mistress.  She is married to Prince Viktor, of Russia.  Regina is more than happy that the princess is keeping her husband occupied while she writes a novel in the same manner as Jane Austen.  However, scandal erupts when Viktor is accused of murdering his wife and her lover out of raging jealousy.  Regina knows he's innocent because he spent the night in her house.  What happens next is a burning passion that both have the opportunity to explore now that their spouses are dead.    This book is the second novel that I have read by Grasso.  I didn't like the first one, but I will definately be reading more now that I've experienced how well she writes.  This story has everything that a romance reader is looking for.  Romance, passion, intrigue, and a great mystery that I bet you can't solve till it is finally exposed in the book.  There is plenty of subtle humor in this book also.  She is the perfect heroine.  She has plenty of spine and knows exactly what she wants out of life, and she's not afraid to speak her mind.  Run, don't walk to the bookstore to pick this one up.	2005-03-31
US	14741883	RGV8M8DP8IW68	0373770073	837923524	The Stone Prince	Books	5	18	21	N	N	Wish I had a marble god in my yard!!!	This is the story of Katie James and a marble statue-turned man, named Jorlan en Sarr.  He hails from a distant planet where the grass is white and men are dominant alpha males who think that women have no say so in anything.  This is the kind of contemporary-paranormal-romance that I love. <br /> <br />Jorlan was cursed by his extremely jealous half brother nine hundred years before.  Katie buys this property with all sorts of naked statues all in a state of sexual gratification.  Except for the one that she can hear tell her to kiss him.  She is oddly drawn to this statue of pure male nudity, and kisses him one night...then she realizes that she is actually kissing a real life male!!  This is where the fun comes in. <br /> <br />Gena Showalter is a genuinely unique author.  She blends weirdness into hilarity and male chavaunism into, somehow, alluring attractivness.  Joran and Tristan (the hero of The Pleasure Slave) are both overbearing pigs of men but in the progression of each novel, they start to realize that the way to an Earth bound woman's heart is tenderness.  This book is extremely funny and a great read.  I reccommend it to anyone with a sense of humor who loves an odd romance.	2005-03-28
US	14741883	R34SY8GS01EYE4	0373770332	873881290	Wicked	Books	2	8	10	N	N	BORING!!!	First I have to say that I love Shannon Drake and every one of her books have always kept me ensnared.  This is the exception.  I couldn't get past the third chapter.  I tried and tried to get into the book, but it was impossible.  She used so many exclamation points (!) that it distracted me.  I didn't know if they were yelling or being extremely cheerful for no reason at all.  The dialogue was horrible and the characters were not intriging.  The hero wore a leather mask, which made me think \\"silence of the Lambs\\"  and didn't endear me to him at all.  I'm so dissapointed that she didn't do a better job.  Her last regency romance was great, but this one needs some serious editing, and character changes.  I wish that she'll give up the regency and write another medieval romance where she really shines.	2005-03-26
US	14741883	R2LQK6DM3UTUYX	0380761513	191666433	Only With Your Love (Avon Historical Romance)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Truly a great love story	Filled with beautiful characters and bad situations, Kleypas has certainly outdone herself in this book.  I had written a review for this novel before, but I didn't do it any justice, so I deleted it and I am writing it again.      This is the continuing story from the Vallerand family that Kleypas started in \\"Only in My Arms\\" which she later changed the title to \\"When Strangers Marry\\".  She introduced us to two totally different identical twins named Phillipe, the quiet one, and Justin, the one who couldn't seem to get past his mother's death, which was rumored to have occured at his father's own hands.    But getting back to this novel, it begins with us meeting the heroine, Celia, who is on a ship with her new husband Phillipe to his family home in Louisianna.  They are set upon by pirates and she sees Phillipe dead and then thrown overboard.  She is rescued by the burly Captain Griffin (which turns out to be Justin, the other twin). Then he takes her virtue one night, (which I'm still not sure why), and thus begins the main story.      With suprises at the end, this novel is beautifully written and in my opinion, one of Kleypas's greatest romances.  The hero develops from a confused villian into a respectable gentleman, all for the love of his twin brothers wife.  One thing that I wish was made into another novel, but don't want to give much away, is the story of Briony and her lost love.  It would have made such a great novel all to itself.  Other than that, this novel is flawless and if you want to read a novel by her, this is one series to start with.	2005-03-24
US	14741883	R207LS0LB58ABX	0373218168	546850597	The Gift: Home for Christmas / All I Want for Christmas	Books	1	3	8	N	N	Nora, what's happened???	I only read the first story in this book.  I was so dissapointed that I took it back to the library.  Faith is nothing but a selfish woman who uses time old excuses.  She kept her daughter from Jason for the stupidest reasons that you will only find in a romance novel.  Jason shouldn't have left in the first place, but he did, and all Faith had to do was tell him as soon as she could.  That would be the RIGHT thing to do.  Jason wasn't any better though.  He shouldn't have been so angry that Faith had gotten married.  He left all of a sudden and didn't call or write till six months later.  I always like the characters and writing of Nora, however this was such a short story that it left a lot to be desired.  Nora should have not made her characters so cliched.  Hopefully Midnight Bayou will be better, I got that from the library also today also.  If not, then I'm giving up Nora for good.	2005-03-23
US	14741883	R26Z8B63ROY8T8	0743486307	410621087	Tempting the Highlander (Highlander Trilogy)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	One of the best in the series	This is the fourth novel in the highlander series by Janet Chapman, and the first where the hero is not one of the highlanders that traveled forward in time.  This is the story of Robbie MacBain who needs to travel back in time to ensure his relatives, (who traveled forward in time during a freak storm caused by an interfering wizard)can stay in this time with their wives and families.  If you haven't read the other novels first, you might be a little confused, but this novel stands pretty much alone.  You can read this one without reading the others.  I love how Robbie is a laid back guy who loves kids and fosters troubled teen boys.  He is a true hero.  The heroine is a feisty loving mother who is trying to escape her husband who has gotten out of jail after abusing her.  The children are frightened of men...until Robbie.  A heart warming story.	2005-03-23
US	14741883	R162L1XXWZBMHB	0505525682	531708240	Kissing Frogs	Books	5	2	3	N	N	An amusing twist to "the frog prince" fairy tale	Lucy Gordon, a biologist in the not so far future, wanted to make a name for herself in a time when scientists were more famous than actors.  She's tried to make her father proud by following in his footsteps, but instead makes a fool of herself by claiming a new species of frog that her father had found years earlier.  So a few years pass, and she's now practically engaged to a Duke and on her way to a happy, contented life. <br /> <br />In enters the hero.... <br /> <br />Driving down the road she swerves to avoid running over an odd looking frog.  Noticing a new species, she happily kisses it, and ends up under a very large, and very naked man. <br /> <br />I was so into this story.  There is absolutely nothing to complain about.  The hero stays completely naked for most of the book, and it doesn't seem strange.  I have to give it to the author for coming up with such a strang and original twist to the tale.  Ten stars.  Pick this book up PRONTO. You won't be disappointed.	2005-03-23
US	14741883	R36R9EHECJWTGM	0440237556	77429998	The Dark Highlander (The Highlander Series, Book 5)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	What a man!!!	Give me Dageus any day (or his twin, haha).  The first love scene in this novel is hot hot hot!!  The passion fairly leaps from the pages.  Karen Marie Moning has taken a subject that would normally be in the fantasy section in the book store, and has made many a historical romance lover happy.  Without Moning we would be very bored.  Very, very bored.	2005-03-22
US	14741883	R75D5JJ3JRZY8	044023655X	631228888	Kiss of the Highlander (The Highlander Series, Book 4)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Scottish...Long black silky hair.... give me some ice!!!	Karen Marie Moning does it again.  Who wouldn't want to meet a scottish man that looks like this???  Since reading her novels, I have had a desire to go to scotland to see if men really look like this over there.  Ha ha.  Seriously though, without Moning where would us romance readers be?  There would definately be a void if we couldn't read about sexy scottish druids....	2005-03-22
US	14741883	REANTATWIEI0C	0380815575	722221564	The Viscount Who Loved Me (Bridgerton Series, Bk. 2)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	First julia quinn I ever read...a keeper!!	Julia Quinn is the queen of humorous regency romance.  There is no one out there who can top her.  I read this novel in four hours.  Didn't put it down once.  That's how good her novels are.  If you love regencies or just plain historical romances, then you should pick up this book today.	2005-03-22
US	14741883	RVJGUPQ1EDSFU	051513855X	794602045	Blue Dahlia (In the Garden, Book 1)	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Nora doesn't deserve less than four stars	I agree with the rest of the reviewers about this novel.  It hasn't got the spark of other Roberts novels like Honest Illusions and the born in ice trilogy.  The romance starts way to deep in the book, at around the 200 page mark.  I like the novels where the hero and heroine meet and sparks and passion fly from the first couple of chapters.  The subplot is okay, and the plot itself is mediocre at best.  Hope the next installment will be a lot better.	2005-03-21
US	14741883	RGS6TBLGRINCD	0451407547	190066965	Texas Splendor	Books	5	1	1	N	N	What a refreshing change	What a refreshing change from normal historical romances.  In this novel, we find the hero having an extreme depth of emotion, and he doesn't puff his chest out and try to dominate the woman.  While I thoroughly enjoy all historical romances where the male has these traits, I found that when I read this one I figured out that this is the kind of romance novel that needs to be published more often.  Where other novels have a heroine that is constantly trying to prove that she is better than the man, in this novel, the hero and heroine are equals who understand each other.  There was no forcing anything on either one them, and they eventually realized how much they loved each other, more than they thought they were able to love.  I highly recommend this novel to anyone who wants to read a romance novel with good plot, good characterization, and passionate love.  I haven't read the other two novels, but after this one, I don't think that it's necessary to try to beat the perfection of Austins and Loree's story.	2005-03-17
US	14741883	R1MO87QUG3SDT0	0312965095	654760197	This Time For Keeps	Books	2	0	2	N	N	Where's the passion	I couldn't finish this book.  I tried, I kept picking it back up, but to no avail.  The heroine is crude and selfish, and the hero?? is too much like Clint Eastwood for my tastes.  Although the plot and storyline is original and unique.  Maybe if the characters were more into each other instead of themselves it would have been a nice novel.	2005-03-16
US	14741883	R1NN2VFTOA0FIA	0312978421	520531701	When the Halo Falls	Books	3	1	1	N	N	It's alright, but....	If this novel made sense then I might have liked it a whole lot better.  Patience Goodfellow is a gurdian angel for Brady Shaw, a saloon owner in the old west.  She takes her halo off and ends up being hit over the head by falling hat boxes, which, in turn makes her lose her memory of being an angel.  However, she somehow thinks that she is Brady Shaw's fiancee', which, to me makes no sense.  How can she lose her memory of herself, but think that she is engaged to someone.  And again, with all of Kathleen Kane's novels....where is the passion??  The love scenes were mediocre and yes, there was humor, but without passion and intrigue, humor falls to the level of dull to me.  I wouldn't say that no one would want to read this novel.  It's a funny tale that would hold many readers attention, just not mine.	2005-03-16
US	14741883	RHLW8YYEACOBY	0758202687	497871464	Captivated	Books	5	6	10	N	N	Where's the ice?? I need to cool down!!	My first foray into historical romance included this novel.  After reading my first historical romance, I went out and bought this one and a few others.  It's been about three years and probably five or six hundred books later, and this novel and all it's stories are still fresh in my mind.  To this day, I cannot find other erotic historical romances to rival these. I recommend this novel to any erotica fan, contemporary or historical.	2005-03-16
US	14741883	R3A3774C8YL9I7	0786714107	675766611	The Mammoth Book of Women's Fantasies	Books	4	17	26	N	N	Very good erotica	All the stories in this novel are steamy!!  I have only one gripe;  the fact that as a woman, I thought that we wanted to read erotica that was a little less pornagraphic than this book.  Not that I didn't enjoy it, just thought that it could have been a little less graphic.	2005-03-16
US	14741883	R30IKMYO6P3W78	0060517611	456521827	The Lady in Question (Effington Family & Friends)	Books	3	3	4	N	N	only three because of boring dialogue and plot	I just couldn't bring myself to enjoy this book.  If the hero and heroine could have just seemed more into each other, then I could have believed their heated exchanges.  I didn't like the whole butler disguise and I definately thought that given the fact that she wanted to be an lady of adventure that it could have ended up a lot better than it did.  Overall, not the best by victoria Alexander.	2005-03-15
US	14741883	R1JLYB8IJ4XVYT	0380800829	704647865	The Duke and I (Bridgerton Series, Book 1)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Finally, I get to read the one that started it all	I fell in love with the Bridgerton's when I read \\"The Viscount Who Loved Me\\".  After that I read all the sequels, except for The Duke and I.  Now that I have read it, I feel like a void has been filled.  This is such a funny, endearing romance, that will steal your heart from the first sentence.  With subtle humor, and sometimes laugh out loud moments, and deep emotional scenes, Julia Quinn has penned an extraordinary novel.  A big round of applause for Julia Quinn, and The Duke and I.	2005-03-14
US	14741883	R32TBNLNL1WYLM	0380811081	206000474	Again The Magic	Books	5	2	3	N	N	This novel is second best by Kleypas...	All of kleypas's novels are good, but this one is really good.  I like the *forbidden* relationship thing between the hero and the heroine, and the love scenes are extra steamy.  Dialogue is always excellent when reading a Kleypas novel, and all her characters are really well thought out.  You can't miss this book if you are starting to read Kleypas, I would read this one first before any other ones she has.	2005-03-12
US	14741883	R1TI9JRBFQWNFG	0061084336	60577212	Queen of My Heart (Travel Time Romance)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Different kind of time travel romance	This time travel romance novel is different from other time travels.  In this one the hero travels from medieval england to western america in the 1800's.  The dialogue is witty and the characters are fun.  I didn't like this one as much as I do other time travel romances, but I read the whole thing and it stuck in my mind, so it was good enough.	2005-03-12
US	14741883	RXXARBZGR3PD9	0843944048	879592235	Lady of the Night (Timeswept)	Books	3	1	3	N	N	I liked it a little	This book could have been better.  I would of liked the story of John and Sidney as a whole book.  I was much more interested in their story than Kane's and Katharina's.  But this book was pretty interesting so I can't give it any less than three stars.  If you like time travel romances, pick this one up.	2005-03-11
US	14741883	R24B2WLKYDVXYW	0553575023	661656288	Charming the Prince (Once Upon a Time)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Could Teresa Medeiros write any better???	Lord Bannor the bold is a perfect comedic hero.  Lady Willow is the perfect \\"spine of steel\\" heroine.  The children in this novel make it all the more hilarious, without detracting from the main characters.  I loved it when they declared war, and played pranks and such on their sire.  Lord Bannor held his own, but was brought down in the end.  Love Medeiros for her genuinely funny romances, and look forward to more of them.	2005-03-11
US	14741883	R166AY6KTNM42K	0380763397	744345828	Only Mine (Only Series)	Books	5	34	37	N	N	If I heard something about the wind one more time.....	I gave this novel five stars because after the first two hundred pages it became one of the best novels I've read in a while.  However, the authors repetitive reference to \\"wind\\" every two paragraphs started to wear on my nerves.   <br /> <br />I have recently reviewed another novel where I said that it had the longest love scene ever, but now I have to change that.  This novel had the longest and most sincere love scene.  The tender feelings that were expressed in the scenes were so strong that I nearly wept.  This author knows how to make a reader want more and more.   <br /> <br />There were some things that I really didn't like, but still doesn't take away from the five star rating I'm giving this novel. <br /> <br />One is how cruel the hero is throughout the first half of this book.  I've read Karen Robards \\"Island Flame\\" and didn't get as offended as I did with Wolfe.  He wears Jessie down until her arms lock up from exhaustive use trying to prove to him that she has what it takes to be a frontier wife.  During all this he taunts her and belittles her.   <br /> <br />Another thing that grated on my nerves was Jessie's fear of childbirth and the marriage bed.  It went on way too long during the novel, should have ended midway, but her fear took over till close to the end.  However, when Wolfe and Jessie make up, it was well worth the hair pulling on the reader's part.  I've not read a book that touched me like this one for a very long time.  And I've never wanted to weep by the sweetness of the hero to the heroine.  The words that were spoken from Wolfe to Jessie (and vice-versa) were so heart wrenching that I was blinking back my tears.  <br /> <br />All in all, Only Mine has got me reading Western Historical romances now, hoping that I can find other novels so great.  To finish a book in five and a half hours shows that Elizabeth Lowell is definately an author among authors.	2005-03-10
US	14741883	R1C8XZ1N71F1IW	0843944463	561149778	Mine to Take (Futuristic Romance)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Dara Joy reigns as queen of other worldly romance	I really enjoyed this novel.  I thought that the characters were well written.  Two things that I did not like were Dara's repetitive references to the heroines \\"pink tipped ears\\"  and the hero's \\"green/gold\\" eyes.  We got it the first two or three times she said it.  But, still the story has everything that a romance novel should have.  Lighthearted funny read.  Too bad that it's going to be a long time for the sequel.	2005-03-10
US	14741883	RWVZXIFHDJ4R3	0373770324	324003323	The Pleasure Slave (Imperia)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	The Pleasure slave	I loved the story of Tristan and Julia.  I liked the fact that Julia didn't fall at Tristan's feet when he put his charms on, but instead she had the brains to realize that she couldn't just sleep with a man because he came out of a jewelry box and looked like a greek god.  This story is brimming with humor and emotions.  The love that the two develop seems real and not just part of a fictional story.  Gena Showalter is going to be the next top selling author.  Her books have everything that a romance reader is looking and hoping for when they pick up a book at a bookstore.  I recommend this novel to anyone who wants a good laugh.  Believe me you will close this book on a dreamy sigh when you are finished.	2005-03-09
US	14741883	RAL7S48IH5S37	0515133876	449119181	Narcissus in Chains (Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter, Book 10)	Books	5	8	24	N	N	Great sequel to Obsidian Butterfly	After the bland (no love life), but adventurous (killing everything in sight), Obsidian Butterfly,  Narcissus in Chains is a refreshing return of my favorite heroine.  I love the fast pace that LKH puts in all her novels.  There are a lot of bad reviews for this novel, but the thing about a series is the progression of the character.  Anita has been through alot and you can't expect her to not change at all.  Anyway, though, I loved this book, and every book that preceded it.  If you read this one and still want to read the others, (Cerulean Sins, Incubus Dreams) then you are a die hard Anita fan.  Despite all the sex and gore, it has great dialogue and great characters.  Love Nathaniel and Jason!!!	2005-03-08
US	14741883	R31GP1JDFPB68Q	0743456351	753332767	A Man to Call My Own: A Novel	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Not bad, not good	I certainly will never give Johanna lindsey less than three stars,but I was sorely tempted to on this one. All in all, this was not a horrible book, it just had way too much thinking and not a lot of doing on the characters parts.  The two lead characters should have had a lot more interaction together for me to honestly believe that they could fall in love.  Rarely did they speak to each other in this novel, and when they did, they didn't seem to click together.  Passion was lacking, and so was all emotion other than confusion over whether the hero knew who he was dealing with...the good twin or the mean twin.  Still, I read this novel in one sitting so it did have some redeeming qualities.  However, I would much rather read her regency novels on the Mallory's or her earlier works set in medieval times.	2005-03-08
US	14741883	R3U6PSD4FBG2A7	0425198243	55431338	Incubus Dreams (Anita Blake Vampire Hunter)	Books	5	9	34	N	N	Loved it, read it in two days	Incubus Dreams is one of the best out of the Anita series.  I like the fact that Anita and Richard come to a sort of *understanding* about their relationship.  And of course, I always devour any scene with Jean Claude.      But why all the bad reviews??    Richard and Anita are finally getting back together again and even though it is in an odd situation, the fact remains that they are trying to move forward.  There is a lot of sex, alot of fighting that makes no sense, but I'm a die hard LKH fan andeverything that she has written has been on my book shelf.    Jean Claude and Richard also become more amiable to each other in a great scene between Anita and them.  Nathaniel and Anita finally get a little thing going, but I still am rooting for Jason!!    All in all, I am waiting for the next installment with bated breath.  All her novels have been read by me numerous times, and the next one can't come soon enough.	2005-03-08
US	14741883	R33DBL6YJMS3QA	0373218575	109894827	Rafe and Jared: The MacKade Brothers	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Love Rafe and Jared's stories	I have never been a big fan of contemporary romances, but Nora Roberts puts so much imagery and depth into her stories that it is hard not to like them.  Unaccountably the best romance writer we have.  Rafe and Jared's stories was full of passion and love that these two stories are the best I've read so far.  I haven't been reading Nora for long, but I know that after these two, I will read as many as I can come across.  Bravo Nora, for writing intense, believable romance.	2005-03-08
US	14741883	R2B8W0579YCO06	0515110973	407514430	Honest Illusions	Books	5	1	4	N	N	Max and Roxanne....magical love and intense passion	When I began to read Nora Roberts, I really didn't expect to be drawn into her novels the way every one said I would be.  Boy, was I wrong!  This is an original story, I've never read a romance that was this intricate and well written.  <br /> <br />Spanning years, from childhood to adulthood, Max and Roxanne fight their love for each other.  Max because of the slight age difference, Roxanne because she is too proud to tell him.  The setting is a lot of locales, but New Orleans is the main place that the story is set in.  Any story that is set in New Orleans is sure to be full of superstition, passion, and culture.  Nora doesn't dissapoint with this novel.  Definately one of a kind.	2005-03-08
US	14741883	R2HTK8ZI0O9NAM	0505524457	924479709	The Pleasure Master	Books	5	3	6	N	N	One of the funniest time travel romances!!!	It's been a while since I read this novel, but it has stuck in my mind.  Loved the plot, loved the characters, and loved the fact that somehow Bangs made me believe in the fact that even though the heroine traveled back in time, she could still use her cell phone.  If you love timetravel romances, this is one that you should not pass up.	2005-03-08
US	14741883	R2EHJUC8STZNT1	0515134457	552287926	Blue Moon (Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter, Book 8)	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Loved it!!	Finally Anita and Richard get down and dirty!!  I just love the ups and downs of their relationship.  In blue moon, there is a lot of jealousy and mutual sexual tension.  I love the fact that Anita feels torn between Jean Claude and Richard, it gives a little spice to the novels.	2005-03-08
US	14741883	R1XNEE9BW4MX37	0515129054	776776683	A Hint of Heather (Seduction Romance)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Only half way through	I'm only halfway through reading this novel, but felt like I needed to write a review.  I love the way that Rebecca Hagan Lee can throw a story together like this one and make it work.  I only have one problem, which is why I gave it only four stars. The main characters don't seem to have much depth to them.  I don't really know who Jessalyn and Neil are.  Plus the love scenes leave a lot to be desired.  However, I like the plot and all the secondary characters are essential to the story.  I've read other Rebeccan Hagan Lee novels that outshine this one.  Still, I would recommend this novel to anyone who likes Scottish romances.	2005-03-07
US	14741883	R3VTWYGJXPVF4B	0380807270	410087216	The MacLean Groom: Highland Lairds Trilogy	Books	5	2	2	N	N	My very first historical romance	I would give this book ten stars if I could, just because it was the first historical romance novel that I was able to like.  I had tried to read all sorts of Historical romance, but just couldn't seem to get past the first two pages.  I picked this book up at a bookstore, along with ten contemporary romance, and after reading this I took everyone of the contemporaries back and traded them in for historicals.  Four years later I still can't get enough historicals.  I read at least six a week.   <br />Aside from being my very first, this really is an entrancing read.  I don't remember very much about it but I do remember that I stayed up all night reading this.	2005-03-07
US	14741883	R3D58XBF0MSX6O	0505523205	807688885	Bushwhacked Bride (Wink & A Kiss, 2)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	really just two words....Ma Recklaw!!!	Lord, did I bust a gut reading this book.  Ma Recklaw was your typical redneck mama, complete with broom and hitting in the back of the head.  I usually don't laugh out loud when I read a novel, but I did with this one just imagining what those five men looked like hiding in barrels and behind wagons and up trees to get away from their ma.  Eugenia Riley is now on the top of my favorite authors list.	2005-03-07
US	14741883	R17QIU3G70P8ZS	0553294083	289682022	Whisper of Roses	Books	5	2	3	N	N	ten stars	Loved it, loved it, loved it!!!  Medeiros is one of a kind in how she can weave a story together as good as this one.  I bought this novel thinking that it would not be all that good, and ended up reading it in one day!  Couldn't put it down.  Plus, the guy on the inside cover didn't hurt matters either....	2005-03-06
US	14741883	R2WLJXROGR8NV8	0505523949	500522983	Blue-Eyed Bandit (Timeswept Series)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	A virginal hero??	I have to admit that I liked this book a little.  It was humorous and fun to read, but the fact that the hero was a virgin was just plain blah.  Not only a virgin, but shy, a man that blushes is not a man I want to read about in a historical romance.  However, I'll give a three because the story was fun, and I love all time travel romances.  Just wish the man would have been a REAL desparado.	2005-03-06
US	14741883	R2KS3Q6O9WULDN	0440235227	407450033	Midnight Honor	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Loved it	I tried to read Pale Moon Rider first, and got bored quickly, but thankfully I went and bought Midnight Honor.  I loved the story and the characters.  It was a first for me to start a book where the two main characters were already married, but it ended up making it that more interesting.  Angus was a scottish laird, but was rooting for the english in a time of war.  His wife anne, was disgusted with him, but throughout the book they put their differences aside and make the pages sizzle!!  However, I was kinda hoping that Captain John and Anne would end up together.  I liked Captain John a lot more than Angus, but still I would recommend this novel to everyone who enjoys a good historical romance.	2005-03-05
US	14741883	R2F4WRAX07EX4R	0380773554	781469885	Prince of Dreams	Books	5	5	10	N	N	another kleypas gem	I believe this was the first historical romance i read where the gentleman doesn't stay faitful the whole book.  Usually the men in romance novels stay faitful as soon as they meet the heroine.  Not in this novel, though.  But that is what made me love this book.  The fact that the characters were more true to life than in other romance novels.  Bravo to Lisa Kleypas for penning another unforgettable read.	2005-03-04
US	14741883	R1ZQEY7GY53XY9	0821767739	51054941	Seize The Dawn (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Who wouldn't like a heroine who fought in a war???	In the beginning of this book, the heroine is fighting in a war and ends up knocking the hero out.  What I loved about this book is the fact that she fights him throughout most of the book, and still it doesn't begin to bore you or make you want to burn the book!!  Another classic Drake novel that will keep you reading long into the night.	2005-03-04
US	14741883	R255RSUIBDM7N7	0821759825	279706841	Blue Heaven, Black Night	Books	5	6	7	N	N	After Ondine...this is the best	This is the second best Shannon Drake medieval romance.  Ondine being the first.  I love the way that she puts so much depth into the characters, you know, the whole love-hate relationship.  Who wants to read a romance where the characters love each other from the beginning?  you would never have a good story if that was the case, and Drake manages to show this relationship without the hero being brutal.  If you want a good Drake book, let this be the one you buy.	2005-03-04
US	14741883	RTFBJ9Q1HVDJA	0821764713	413206412	Come The Morning	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Drake is the best!!	This was one of the first drake novel I read, and it made me a lifelong fan of Drake.  Though not the best one she has written, it is a very good read.	2005-03-04
US	14741883	RM20CDTDKJRMU	0380811073	751978069	Worth Any Price (Bow Street, Book 3)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Second Kleypas Novel i ever read	I loved the way that this book started out with Nick getting taught by a \\"lady of pleasure\\" of how to pleasure a woman.  Nick doesn't like being touched by anyone and this woman helps him so he can develop relationships.  I know that some might think that I'm crazy for liking this, but in the world of romance novels, there are so many that are just alike that this one is a refreshing difference from the norm.  Kleypas hasn't penned one romance novel that I didn't enjoy.	2005-03-04
US	14741883	RLNN2EUJ9Y82H	0821754149	625950489	Ondine	Books	5	2	3	N	N	READ THIS BOOK IMMEDIATELY!!!	You will never find another historical romance as good as Ondine.  With in depth characterization and a plot that is unlike any other romance novel I've ever read, this book is top notch.  Also, this book shows that romance novels are not just women sighing over men, and men being barbarians, it shows that two people who love each other can and will work things out in the end, no matter how much they seem to hate each other in the beginning...or something like that.... <br />Anyway, what I'm trying to say is that Shannon Drake definately delivers with this extraordinary novel of romance and intrigue with a well thought out plot and great writing.	2005-03-04
US	14741883	R34A42LHCTXGF1	0060507365	720423107	When Strangers Marry (Avon Historical Romance)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	First Kleypas I ever read	I loved the story of Max and Lysette.  They were humorous together and you could believe the love that grew in them throughout the novel.  Loved the sons, also, and loved the books that they were in also.  I never got to read the original novel, Only in Your Arms, but I'm sure it will be just as gratifying a read.	2005-03-04
US	14741883	R1VO4QDPCXAQ6Z	0821769286	287525794	Knight Triumphant (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Brava Shannon Drake	Heather Graham, writing as shannon drake never fails to deliver her engrossing historical romances.  This book was just like ever other book she has written but that is what makes her books all the more better.  Knowing that when I go to buy a Shannon Drake book, I am sure to devour it from beginning to end, that's what makes an author top of the list.	2005-03-04
US	14741883	R18HKT8JFLI6QA	0380811065	920055797	Lady Sophia's Lover (Bow Street, Book 2)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Steamy!!!	I love lisa kleypas.  Undoubtebly the best regency romance writer we have, she knows exactly what us readers want to read.  She never fails to deliver great sexual tension, and then superbly written love scenes.  Bordering just on the edge of erotic romance, I guarantee that any Kleypas novel you read will leave you wanting more.	2005-03-04
US	14741883	R3N4CB7536MLUE	0679785892	58271710	Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas: A Savage Journey to the Heart of the American Dream	Books	5	1	3	N	N	The best stoner movie out there!!	Thank you Hunter S. Thompson for making sure that the script was taken straight from the novel.  This movie is so laugh out loud funny, even when it is trying to be serious.  I still go out and rent this movie every so often, so I can try to remember the days that I was just like them...sigh.	2005-03-04
US	14741883	R28XLZUV6B89GS	038075620X	451236721	Night Fire (Night Fire Trilogy)	Books	5	17	19	N	N	Sigh.....	I have just started to write my reviews on this website.  I always read the other ones before I write my own.  I love how Catherine Coulter writes so differently from other historical romance writers.  Her books always have taboos and serious issues.  According to a lot of the reviews I read about Catherine Coulter on this website, alot of people are always putting her down for writing about things that actually did and do happen to women all over the world.  I don't enjoy reading romance novels that are sugar coated, so her books always make me rush to the book store to pick them up.  If things like domestic abuse and over bearing men offend some women, then quit reading historical romances.  Besides, it's only fiction anyway.	2005-03-02
US	14741883	R1UVD48NH7MYWZ	0380758881	770459943	Morning Song	Books	5	2	5	N	N	the longest sex scene in history!!!	I loved this book. I stayed up until three am to finish Morning Song, and woke up in the morning thinking about it. The first sex scene is about an entire chapter long, but it's one of the sweetest sex scenes that i've ever read.  I just read this book about two days ago, and already I am trying to find other books that are in this same genre.  This novel is so different from other romance novels that i've read, and would appreciate if someone could help me out on finding other books that are in the same genre.  Morning Song will always be my favorite book of all time.	2005-02-26
US	14741883	RVJ4CGKLJB4V7	0671702505	721186357	The Gift	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Loooove Julie Garwood!!!	Julie Garwood is one of the best writers in historical romance that we have the good grace to have.  I have only read a few select books of hers, but the gift has got to be number one.  I just loved it from first page to the last.  Nathan was a hero to the first degree and any red blooded woman would be crazy not to want a man like him.  Julie garwood puts the most into her characters and never dissapoints with the end product.  I hope that she keeps writing romance in the same time period as this book was set in.	2005-02-26
US	14741883	RJKEEQTTR7DC6	0451206398	607388906	Wild Star (Star Series)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	A very satisfying read	This is only the third or so Catherine Coulter romance that i have read, and it did not dissapoint me in the least.  Brent seemed to have some serious issues though, not trusting women, acting like he was sleeping with his mistress when he wasn't, and kissing Lauren(his stepmother) near the end because he said that \\"she asked him to kiss her\\".  Byrony(the heroine) was polite and reserved throughout most of the novel, but when she bought that whip!!!that was funny.  Also near the end she gets in a small but satisfying catfight with Brent's stepmother over that kiss.  I can't seem to find any of the other \\"star\\" books at my local bookstore or library, but when i do i'm going to devour them.  One setback of the book was how exceedingly rude Brent was towards Byrony.  He never expressed remorse over anything he did, but still, i found myself loving him and Byrony as characters the whole book.  I recommend this book to anyone who loves a different kind of romance.	2005-02-26
US	14741883	R17T48OX7J4RZI	0440221072	467632509	Island Flame	Books	3	4	9	N	N	Meant to give this five stars..	There are probably alot of feminist women who would like to thrash me for calling this a great book, but it is so out of the norm of other historical romances today.  The hero, Jon, (yes ladies, i said hero) is a rather brutish male.  However, this is the most historically  accurate book i have ever read about the differences between men and women in that time period.  He is an arrogant selfish man even up to the last two pages in the novel.  Throughout the whole book, he insults and forces himself on her, but she gives him just as much as he dishes out.  This book will always be one of my favorites, just because of the way that Karen Robards details the way a REAL relationship usually works.	2005-02-19
