US	15230875	R3E5TNC7Z7QIS7	0821769170	143399929	Reckless (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	3	16	18	N	N	Good, but lacks the spark of Amber Flame - 3.5 stars	Alexander MacDubh was once one of the biggest charmers in all of Scotland. With his magnificent looks and sweet tongue, he had many women, single and married, swooning over him. But when he experienced one too many betrayals by his ex-wife and stepmother, the former resulting to the death of his beloved daughter, the other to his father's death and loss of their land and wealth, he vows to never trust another woman for the rest of his life. For two years, he has succeeded in shielding his emotions and lives for the day when he could avenge his father's death and reclaim Leargan, the land that Colin MacFarlane stole from the MacDubh's. Then one day, he discovers that his brother Barra has sired three children with the late Mairi MacFarlane. Within hours, Alex and his men were riding towards Leargan intent on claiming back the children. And Fate seemed to be smiling at him for in one swoop, it wasn't only his niece and nephews who land in his lap, but the sole MacFarlane heiress as well - the beautiful Ailis.<br /><br />Strong-willed and spirited, Ailis passes herself off as the children's nurse, knowing the price that the MacDubhs would demand as ransom for all of them. But her cover doesn't last very long when Barra lays eyes on her and mistakes her for the woman he once loved. And when Alex learns about the value of his captive, he couldn't believe his luck and decides to extract vengeance from Donald MacCordy by bedding his betrothed. But Alex never expected that Fate has actually given him the woman who will be his undoing.<br /><br />RECKLESS is the third of Hannah Howell's first earlier Highland series, the first one being AMBER FLAME followed by PROMISED PASSION. In those first two books, Alexander was always the charming courtier giving competition to his friends Tavis and Ian MacLagan. So I was quite surprised to see him in a serious role, that of a bitter man who has suffered the treachery of the opposite sex who he once adored. I was a little saddened to see him a mere shadow of his former self and couldn't wait for Ailis to break the wall he has built around his heart and bring him down on his knees. And that's what she does of course! It doesn't take long for Ailis to figure out the man that Alex has become and she strives to prove to him that not all women are capable of treachery, that there are many trustworthy and loving women out there who will give their all to the man they love.<br /><br />This book also features a good supporting cast, notably the children and the ever-loyal Jamie. I laughed so much when little Sybeal nearly knocks the daylight out of her uncle Alexander and threatens to make a eunuch of him. That, for me, was the most fun part of the story. And who wouldn't adore Jamie's loyalty to Ailis? He was a friend that anyone would be lucky to have.<br /><br />Overall, this was a pretty enjoyable read though it lacks the spark and tenderness that I loved in AMBER FLAME. To this day, that remains one of my favorite novels. You will understand once you read it. The passion, tenderness and laughter shared by Tavis and Storm is something to cherish and one I always look for when reading other Scottish books by Hannah Howell.adow of his former self and couldn't wait for Ailis to break the wall he has built around his heart and bring him down on his knees. And that's what she does of course! It doesn't take long for Ailis to figure out the man that Alex has become and she strives to prove to him that not all women are capable of treachery, that there are many trustworthy and loving women out there who will give their all to the man they love.    This book also features a good supporting cast, notably the children and the ever-loyal Jamie. I laughed so much when little Sybeal nearly knocks the daylight out of her uncle Alexander and threatens to make a eunuch of him. That, for me, was the most fun part of the story. And who wouldn't adore Jamie's loyalty to Ailis? He was a friend that anyone would be lucky to have.    Overall, this was a pretty enjoyable read though it lacks the spark and tenderness that I loved in AMBER FLAME. To this day, that remains one of my favorite novels. You will understand once you read it. The passion, tenderness and laughter shared by Tavis and Storm is something to cherish and one I always look for when reading other Scottish books by Hannah Howell.	2005-10-10
US	15230875	R1DF1GU2PEBQ7Q	0843927054	12502327	Promised Passion	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Sequel to AMBER FLAME	Having reached the age that most considered is ripe for marriage; her father takes Islaen MacRoth to the king's court hoping to find her a suitable husband. And having lived quite a sheltered life, she isn't used to life at court and finds herself a prime target for gold diggers and the subject of ridicule by the more sophisticated ladies. But nothing will compare to the battle she faces with the man she finally marries.<br /><br />Ian MacLagan is a man who carries the physical and emotional scars of his past. Blaming himself for his wife and child's death, he has sworn to never remarry and has shielded his heart from any woman. So it was to his shock and anger when the king orders him to marry Islaen. With no choice but to obey his liege, Ian resolves not to share her bed for fear of bringing harm to her. Yet it was a promise that will never be fulfilled for Islaen proves more irresistible than he ever expected.<br /><br />PROMISED PASSION is the sequel to AMBER FLAME featuring Tavis and Storm, which to this day remains one of my most favorite historical romances. Until recently, I've been hoping for a sequel not knowing that there is one. As with the first book, the characters are very likable and the supporting cast quite entertaining. Islaen, although started off a little timid, proved to be of strong character. She never gave up trying to get through the wall that Ian has built around him, and her determination is what makes her admirable. As for Ian, he does prove to be quite stubborn in his belief, but it is quite understandable for it is brought upon by his fear for Islaen's life. And we do see him struggle with his emotions as we see him try to hold on to her with one hand, while pushing her away with the other. But we all know that sooner or later, the man will come to his senses. And who better to help him? None other than the charming Alexander MacDubh. If he was a charmer in AMBER FLAME, he is more so in this book. A real ladies man, I enjoyed how he made Ian so jealous.<br /><br />An entertaining and easy read, I enjoyed this book though I must admit that I wasn't as captivated as I was with the first book. You might also want to check out RECKLESS, which features Alexander MacDubh.e made Ian so jealous.    <br /> <br />An entertaining and easy read, I enjoyed this book though I must admit that I wasn't as captivated as I was with the first book. You might also want to check out RECKLESS, which features Alexander MacDubh.	2005-10-10
US	15230875	R1SJTJR8AYLGX8	0312979975	283452346	Fantasy Lover	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Go and grab yourself a copy!	Once upon a time, there lived a mighty Macedonian commander who led his army into victory over the Romans. He was revered by the goddess Athena and feared by his enemies. Some even said he was to be the next Alexander the Great. But power attracts jealousy. And nobody was more eager to destroy him than his own brother. Jealous of Julian's popularity and great looks, Priapus, a lesser-known god hands him the ultimate punishment - that of a man trapped in a book with no company but darkness and solitude. The mighty commander was reduced to nothing more than a sex slave cursed into an eternity of loneliness. For two thousand years, Julian of Macedon would be under the mercy of women until one fateful night in New Orleans.<br /><br />Four years ago, Grace Alexander lost two of the people she loved the most. To add to her devastation, the first man to show any interest in her took advantage of her grief over her parents' death and has since shattered her trust in men. Then her psychic friend Selena stumbles upon Julian's book and convinces her to conjure him up on the night of her birthday. So several glasses of wine later, Grace decides to indulge Selena and as the clock strikes midnight with the full moon shining on her, she calls out to Julian of Macedon three times not expecting that it will work. But before she knew what was going on, she finds him naked in her living room offering his service to her. And from that moment on, her life would never be the same.<br /><br />FANTASY LOVER is a fun and original story that had me enthralled from the very first page. I absolutely loved Julian and had this mental picture of a perfect Greek god oozing with immense power and sexuality. And I was glad that Grace wasn't made out to be the beautiful damsel in distress, which we see a lot of in romance novels. In fact, she is smart and independent yet average looking. What really immersed me into the story is the humor and passion between them. From the outside, we have two people who are as different as night and day, yet deep down, they have so much in common that forms a bond between them. Both have suffered the humiliation and pain of rejection and both have lived the life of outsiders. Julian is the first man who didn't find her lacking and made her feel desirable and protected. In return, Grace is the first person to see beyond his face and body, and the only one who actually gave a damn about him when everyone else has treated him like an object to be used. And this is what drew them together and what creates an absorbing story that will have you glued from the very start.<br /><br />A fantastic, exciting and extremely hot novel, I guarantee that you wouldn't be able to put this down. Believe me, learning to drive a stick has never sounded so hot!  And who would have thought that those gods and goddesses in Mt Olympus could be so funny? This book was an absolute joy! I laughed, cried a little and cheered for both of them.erent as night and day, yet deep down, they have so much in common that forms a bond between them. Both have suffered the humiliation and pain of rejection and both have lived the life of outsiders. Julian is the first man who didn't find her lacking and made her feel desirable and protected. In return, Grace is the first person to see beyond his face and body, and the only one who actually gave a damn about him when everyone else has treated him like an object to be used. And this is what drew them together and what creates an absorbing story that will have you glued from the very start.    A fantastic, exciting and extremely hot novel, I guarantee that you wouldn't be able to put this down. Believe me, learning to drive a stick has never sounded so hot!  And who would have thought that those gods and goddesses in Mt Olympus could be so funny? This book was an absolute joy! I laughed, cried a little and cheered for both of them.	2005-10-10
US	15230875	R2TY8CI8RHMGZ0	0671737791	378094364	The Bride	Books	5	4	5	N	N	An absolute delight	In a time when people become pawns of their liege's political manipulations, two people find love when they least expected it.<br /><br />Alec Kincaid is a mighty Scottish warrior whose prowess with his sword is renowned even by their English enemies. But along with his fighting skills are whispers of his past. Rumor has it that his cruelty drove his wife to commit suicide, while others say he killed Helena himself. So when Scotland's King Edgar ordered him to pick an English bride in order to maintain peace with England, Baron Jamison's daughters went mad upon hearing the news that the \\"Scottish barbarian\\" would pick from one of them.<br /><br />Since the day her beloved mother died, Lady Jamie has become the healer of their people and has managed the running of their land. Having shouldered the weight of maintaining their land, her father and sisters have become dependent on her to look after their needs. Therefore when Baron Jamison receives the king's letter, he decides to hide Jamie from Laird Kincaid fearful of losing his favorite daughter. But when Beak the stable master learns of the baron's plan, he decides to take matters into his own hand. Having had enough of watching his precious mistress, whom he has treated like his own daughter, slave away for her family, Beak thinks that Jamie would be better off living away from her family and married to someone who will treat her like the gem she is. And confident that Alec would be a fair husband, he tells him of Jamie's existence. So shortly after the Scots' arrival, Jamie and Alec are married and on their way back to the Highlands.<br /><br />What follows is a hilarious battle of wit between the newlyweds. Their continuous verbal sparring is such a delight to read, and I loved how they fight their attraction to each other. Jamie is such an enchanting heroine, stubborn without being unreasonable, funny and so full of life. I liked how she broke down Alec's defenses with her compassion and laughter. And the way she earned the Kincaid clan's trust and respect is truly wonderful. And her lack of sense of direction? Those scenes had me grinning.<br /><br />Of course their relationship isn't without the usual bumps for Jamie needs to uncover the truth about Helena's death in order to clear any doubts as to her husband's innocence, while Alec must also find out who's behind the recent attempts on Jamie's life.<br /><br />With its blend of humor, conspiracy and romance, THE BRIDE is certain to delight readers. This is only my fourth Garwood book, but I guarantee that, like me, you would want to read her other novels once you get a taste of her talent for superb storytelling.an's trust and respect is truly wonderful. And her lack of sense of direction? Those scenes had me grinning.    Of course their relationship isn't without the usual bumps for Jamie needs to uncover the truth about Helena's death in order to clear any doubts as to her husband's innocence, while Alec must also find out who's behind the recent attempts on Jamie's life.        With its blend of humor, conspiracy and romance, THE BRIDE is certain to delight readers. This is only my fourth Garwood book, but I guarantee that, like me, you would want to read her other novels once you get a taste of her talent for superb storytelling.	2005-09-26
US	15230875	R2AHP068R7VFX9	0380802309	753418941	Someone to Watch Over Me (Bow Street, Book 1)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Good introduction to the Bow Street Trilogy	If you're looking for a historical romance that's not focused on gentlemen and ladies of the haute ton, then look no further than Lisa Kleypas' Bow Street Runners trilogy. A world slightly removed from the nobility, they are a group of men both revered and condemned for being a law unto themselves, whose purpose is to rid the London society of its biggest scum. In this introduction, get to meet the most famous of the Runners - Grant Morgan.<br /><br />When the body of a woman is found floating on the river Thames, Morgan is called to the scene and was astounded to find the woman still breathing. But what's more shocking for him is the discovery of the woman's identity - Vivien Rose Duvall, London's most infamous and sought-after courtesan. Aware that she just survived an attempted murder, Grant takes Vivien home and, as she lies unconscious in his bed, he recalls their unpleasant meeting a few months ago and thinks it ironic how the woman whom he promised to repay for his humiliation has so easily landed in his lap.<br /><br />When Vivien regains consciousness, she wakes up with no recollection of who she is. As Grant becomes aware of her condition, he decides to take advantage of her memory loss. But as he invents stories about their relationship, he starts feeling guilty about lying to her especially when he finds himself drawn to her seeming innocence, for gone is the smug superiority of the old Vivien. Now replaced with such vulnerability and sweetness, he finds himself becoming more attached to her and overcome with the need to protect her. And as his feelings for her grows stronger, he worries that he might be falling for another one of Vivien's games, something that he won't be able to endure should it turn out to be so.<br /><br />SOMEONE TO WATCH OVER ME is quite an intriguing story of two characters drawn together by an act of crime. Although set in the Regency era, it is not your typical story of the aristocratic society, which I found to be totally refreshing. He may not be a titled gentleman but Grant Morgan is every bit as dashing as the usual lords found in other books, with a little bit of roughness that I thought was just sexy. I liked how he changed from a man intent on taking revenge to assuage his pride, to an enchanted man overcome with his love for the heroine.<br /><br />With a mixture of mystery, romance and hot love scenes, this book is an enjoyable introduction to the Bow Street trilogy. It is interesting to have an insight on the works of the Runners and it was great to see an author take a chance by steering clear of the glitz and glamor of the Regency ballrooms, and create a story of the so-called \\"commoners\\" in that era. And another bonus is the involvement of Sir Ross Cannon, the chief magistrate, who's just so mysterious and sexy.<br /><br />The other books in the series are LADY SOPHIA'S LOVER (Ross Cannon's story) and WORTH ANY PRICE.refreshing. He may not be a titled gentleman but Grant Morgan is every bit as dashing as the usual lords found in other books, with a little bit of roughness that I thought was just sexy. I liked how he changed from a man intent on taking revenge to assuage his pride, to an enchanted man overcome with his love for the heroine.  <br /> <br />With a mixture of mystery, romance and hot love scenes, this book is an enjoyable introduction to the Bow Street trilogy. It is interesting to have an insight on the works of the Runners and it was great to see an author take a chance by steering clear of the glitz and glamor of the Regency ballrooms, and create a story of the so-called \\"commoners\\" in that era. And another bonus is the involvement of Sir Ross Cannon, the chief magistrate, who's just so mysterious and sexy.  <br /> <br />The other books in the series are LADY SOPHIA'S LOVER (Ross Cannon's story) and WORTH ANY PRICE.	2005-09-22
US	15230875	RTKCJEMZIUM9J	0671739727	635712327	Highland Velvet	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Not as good as the first book (Velvet Quarter # 2)	The second book in the Velvet Quarter, HIGHLAND VELVET continues the saga of the Montgomery brothers, this time featuring Stephen.<br /><br />Picking up from where we last saw him in the first book (VELVET PROMISE), Stephen Montgomery is on his way to meet his bride, a Scottish laird whom King Henry has ordered for him to marry for political reason. Delayed by the accident and miscarriage of his sister-in-law, Stephen reluctantly rides to his wedding, expecting to meet a female barbarian, who her father was foolish enough to choose as his successor. To his shock, he meets a statuesque and beautiful woman - but with a raging temper to match.<br /><br />Bronwyn MacArran is laird and protector of her people. A proud Scot who holds contempt for everything English, she sees herself and her people as victims of King Henry's manipulations, but helpless to prevent her marriage to an English. Left standing at the altar on her wedding day, she vowed to make her future husband pay for the insults she had to suffer as a result of her shame. And make him pay she does! When she foolishly falls for the lies of Roger Chatworth, an Earl who bears a grudge against the Montgomery's, she agrees to marry him instead therefore resulting to a battle between Roger and Stephen, which Stephen easily wins. Then on their wedding night, she puts a knife on his shoulder injuring him. But does it stop there? I only wish it did.<br /><br />HIGHLAND VELVET, in my opinion, is a bit of a let down after reading the first book. The first half of the book was a little slow for me, especially reading of Bronwyn's constant complaint and anger for Stephen. Now I could appreciate Bronwyn's initial hatred for the English, but I wish that her stubbornness and pride were toned down a little bit. I like my heroine to have some spunk, but not to the point of being outrageously stubborn. Fair enough that Stephen started off arrogant, but I felt that he really went out of his way to please her by trying to befriend her people, learning the Scots' ways, dressing like them and even changing his name, but all she did was accuse him of being a spy and having an ulterior motive, and constantly declare that she is \\"The MacArran\\". What really saved this for me was toward the third part when the table was finally turned and Bronwyn realizes her mistakes. I was so glad to see her contemplating her mistakes and become fully appreciative of everything that Stephen has to offer.<br /><br />Overall, it starts off rather slow but picks up halfway through. For all my complaints about the heroine, she does redeem herself in the end, which was truly nice to see.  It was also good to see the Montgomery's reunited again and get an update on Gavin and Judith and the other two brothers, Raine and Miles. And as usual, Ms Deveraux sets the story well for the next book VELVET SONG featuring Raine.efriend her people, learning the Scots' ways, dressing like them and even changing his name, but all she did was accuse him of being a spy and having an ulterior motive, and constantly declare that she is \\"The MacArran\\". What really saved this for me was toward the third part when the table was finally turned and Bronwyn realizes her mistakes. I was so glad to see her contemplating her mistakes and become fully appreciative of everything that Stephen has to offer.  <br /> <br />Overall, it starts off rather slow but picks up halfway through. For all my complaints about the heroine, she does redeem herself in the end, which was truly nice to see.  It was also good to see the Montgomery's reunited again and get an update on Gavin and Judith and the other two brothers, Raine and Miles. And as usual, Ms Deveraux sets the story well for the next book VELVET SONG featuring Raine.	2005-09-19
US	15230875	R3FXULU1YOC5KH	0671737821	177598856	Honor's Splendour	Books	4	15	17	N	N	Delightfully sweet - 4.5 stars	This is a poignant story of how a maiden secured a place in a fierce warrior's heart by the simple act of warming his feet.<br /><br />Vowing revenge against the baron who forcefully took away his sister's innocence, Baron Duncan of Wexton knew that the only way to even the score is by kidnapping Baron Louddon's sister, Lady Madelyne. But little did he expect that the prize would fall into his hands so easily, for when Louddon's men captured Duncan, Madelyne came to his rescue. Having suffered the hatred of her abusive brother, Madelyne decides to flee. But upon learning that her brother's men intended to leave Duncan out in the cold to die, she comes to his rescue unaware that she was the main reason why he came. And so she finds herself a captive of Duncan and taken back to his castle. But instead of suffering the wrath of his revenge, Madelyne is given more freedom at Wexton than she's ever had at her brother's. And as the days progress, she finds herself falling in love with the warrior who turned out to be kind and honorable.<br /><br />HONOR'S SPLENDOUR is a sweet story that would capture your interest right from the start. Madelyne is such a sweet lady, whom Fate has dealt a terrible blow when she was orphaned at a very young age. But despite the misery, especially the abuse she suffered from her brother, she never lost her faith in the good things about life.  There is nothing to dislike about her for she continually seeks to make the people around her happy. As for her naivet&eacute; and clumsiness, they're just simply delightful. With Duncan, beneath his tough exterior lies a man of courage and honor. I loved how protective he became of Madelyne and how he did his best to make her feel safe. And it was so good reading how happy it made Duncan feel to see the change in her. His tenderness and patience towards Madelyne just melt my heart. I just loved how the romance developed between them. The passion and tenderness are simply adorable and made for some real feel-good reading. I will never forget the part in the beginning where, right after she rescues him, Duncan thinks to himself that Madelyne doesn't realize yet that she has sealed her fate by warming his feet (you will understand once you've read it).<br /><br />Filled with humor, romance and knights in shining armor, you will also be entertained by the secondary characters and wish that some of them will get their story.  Very enjoyable!eel-good reading. I will never forget the part in the beginning where, right after she rescues him, Duncan thinks to himself that Madelyne doesn't realize yet that she has sealed her fate by warming his feet (you will understand once you've read it). <br /> <br />Filled with humor, romance and knights in shining armor, you will also be entertained by the secondary characters and wish that some of them will get their story.  Very enjoyable!	2005-09-14
US	15230875	R1GN3Q23HESEOY	0671743856	37185038	Wishes	Books	5	6	7	N	N	I'd like my own fairy godmother too!	Ever wished you had a fairy godmother? Well after reading this book, I sure wished for one.<br /><br />Since her mother passed away, Nellie Grayson has carried the burden of running the household. While young girls her age were busy flirting with boys and attending parties, she was busy doing the chores and looking after her hard-to-please father and spoilt little sister. Now in her late twenties, Nellie has resigned herself to being a spinster whose sole purpose in life is to make sure that her sister Terel is always the belle of the ball, and that her father is well-served and taken care of.<br /><br />Four years ago, his beloved wife, Julie, and newly born child were taken away from him. From then on, he has lived the life of a nomad, wandering from place to place, always alone and reserved. Finally missing the company of his family, Jace Montgomery decides to visit his cousin in Chandler, Colorado where Charles Grayson, whose life he once saved, also happen to live. So Jace finds himself over at the Graysons one night not knowing that Fate had something in store for him.<br /><br />Upon meeting Nellie, Jace is instantly drawn to her and finds himself discussing Julie for the first time since her death. And Nellie, always in tune to other people's feelings, senses his loneliness. What she never expected is for Jace to show interest in her. She, an undesirable, fat old maid who never had a suitor. And Jace is aware of her insecurities and goes out of his way to convince her of his sincerity. And for the first time in her rather uneventful life, Nellie Grayson has the attention of a handsome gentleman.<br /><br />WISHES is a poignant tale of how two people found love when they least expected it. Nellie is one of the most selfless heroines I have read about, while Jace is just the perfect gentleman whose sincerity and love for Nellie will have you wishing that there were indeed a fairy godmother out there. The author has done so well with this story that you truly feel for the characters. I felt a whole range of emotions while reading this. It upset me to read Nellie telling herself that for once she will pretend that Jace was her man, when she still couldn't believe that such a handsome man could actually see past her not-so-slender figure. That is why Jace's determination to win Nellie is just to die for. In the end, all you'd wish is for them to live happily ever after.<br /><br />A truly wonderful book, I guarantee that you won't be able to stop once you start.a whole range of emotions while reading this. It upset me to read Nellie telling herself that for once she will pretend that Jace was her man, when she still couldn't believe that such a handsome man could actually see past her not-so-slender figure. That is why Jace's determination to win Nellie is just to die for. In the end, all you'd wish is for them to live happily ever after.    A truly wonderful book, I guarantee that you won't be able to stop once you start.	2005-09-13
US	15230875	RECR1OGIG8QY0	0843948108	674323172	The Deed (Leisure Historical Romance)	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Hilarious!	After two full years of marriage, Lady Emmalene has grown tired of waiting. So she petitions the king to command her husband to do his conjugal duties. But Fate seemed to have a different plan for her for the duke died shortly after her meeting with the king, leaving Emmalene still a virgin and heiress to a vast estate - until the unexpected order from the king.<br /><br />Suspecting Emma's late husband's cousin Bertrand of plotting against him, and therefore not wishing for him to have any power to rise against him, the king orders Amaury, one of his loyal knights, to marry Emma. A landless knight who bears the taint of his illegitimacy, Amaury knows that this is a once in a lifetime opportunity for him to be \\"Lord\\" of his own manor, something he has dreamt of since he was a child. So off he goes to his wife-to-be, all the while fearing and dreading to see the \\"hag\\" whose late husband apparently refused to bed. But was he surprised to find otherwise!<br /><br />What follows is a hilarious start for the newlyweds. Fearful that Bertrand would arrive before the wedding was consummated and possibly attempt to contest the marriage, everyone was eager for the couple to get the deed done, providing us with one of the funniest scenes in the book. It was outrageous the way everyone kept on banging at the door asking if Amaury and Emma were done. And when Bertrand finally arrives, the frenzy that followed had me laughing out loud.<br /><br />THE DEED is guaranteed to have you laughing right from the first scene. Although it's a bit over the top at times, it didn't bother me at all for each scene is played out well and the humor had me entertained throughout. Emma, though initially ignorant of the intimacy between man and wife, is actually quite an admirable lady. This is a woman who ran an entire estate and army with the same efficiency as a strong knight. And nobody is more in awe than Amaury. As for him, his vulnerability is actually quite endearing for this is a man who's always wanted to belong, a fact that Emma realizes. So it was great to see him find his real home with Emma, and realized in the end that he belonged with her and that her love is more important than the wealth she offered.<br /><br />Entertaining!n who's always wanted to belong, a fact that Emma realizes. So it was great to see him find his real home with Emma, and realized in the end that he belonged with her and that her love is more important than the wealth she offered. <br /> <br />Entertaining!	2005-09-12
US	15230875	R2E84EGJ1ZTU5R	0380811081	206000474	Again The Magic	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Quite emotional	Bereft of any parental affection and supervision, Lady Aline Marsden spent most of her childhood roaming around Stony Cross Park's lavish estate. It was no surprise then that when eight-year-old orphan John McKenna came to work for the Marsden's, he and Aline found friendship with one another and became inseparable. Years later, and things begin to change between them, for along with adolescence comes the physical attraction, turning the innocent friendship into something much deeper and complicated. Thus begin the forbidden love between the noblewoman who was raised with one purpose, which is to make a good marriage with someone from her own class, and the lowly stable boy who could never overcome the social limitations that he had been born with. Although both know that their love is forbidden, each try to make the most of the time they can steal together. But neither expected that it would end too soon. When the earl finds out about his daughter's involvement with McKenna, he threatens to destroy him if he ever returns to the estate. But knowing that McKenna would come back regardless of her father's threats, Aline makes the ultimate sacrifice, a deception that will haunt them both for the next twelve years.<br /><br />Now McKenna finally returns to Stony Cross. After years of hard work, sacrifice and utter will, he is a far cry from the lowly servant from over a decade ago, and is now a very wealthy man. But that long ago rejection he received from the only woman he's ever loved lingers, making him hungry for revenge. And Aline sees this hunger in him straightaway. But instead of fearing his intentions, she willingly risks being hurt again in exchange for a few moments of the past, just to get a taste of what might have been had they not been torn apart. For McKenna, along with his thirst for revenge comes the deep curiosity as to the reason why Aline remains unmarried and what other secrets she harbours. But one thing remains for certain - the magic between them from long ago remains as intense as ever.<br /><br />AGAIN THE MAGIC is a poignant tale of a forbidden love featuring main characters who possess such passionate nature, and whose love for each other will make you care for them. While the underlying conflict in this story seem so trivial (one would think that the heroine will just confess the truth so everyone lives happily ever after), I think that it actually proves the author's talent in storytelling by providing us with a good reason for Aline's determination to keep the truth from McKenna, making us empathize more with their sufferings and wish them every happiness.<br /><br />With an intense and sometime heart-wrenching storyline, AGAIN THE MAGIC makes for some emotional and romantic read. I only wish that the subplot featuring the romance between Aline's sister and McKenna's friend were given its own book, as I felt that their relationship and character could have been better explored. But overall, this is another enjoyable effort from Ms Kleypas.hem from long ago remains as intense as ever.  <br /> <br />AGAIN THE MAGIC is a poignant tale of a forbidden love featuring main characters who possess such passionate nature, and whose love for each other will make you care for them. While the underlying conflict in this story seem so trivial (one would think that the heroine will just confess the truth so everyone lives happily ever after), I think that it actually proves the author's talent in storytelling by providing us with a good reason for Aline's determination to keep the truth from McKenna, making us empathize more with their sufferings and wish them every happiness. <br /> <br />With an intense and sometime heart-wrenching storyline, AGAIN THE MAGIC makes for some emotional and romantic read. I only wish that the subplot featuring the romance between Aline's sister and McKenna's friend were given its own book, as I felt that their relationship and character could have been better explored. But overall, this is another enjoyable effort from Ms Kleypas.	2005-09-10
US	15230875	R2ZXPLFEQVO4IV	0385338082	693014192	Can You Keep a Secret?	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Outrageously funny!	What is not to love about this book?  This is the most fun and hilarious book I've read in a while.  This helped me survive a long flight overseas and couldn't put it down no matter how tired I was.<br /><br />The heroine, Emma Corrigan, is absolutely endearing. Her insecurities, which made her lie to her boyfriend about her real weight, or how she felt very small and rather worthless next to her very successful cousin makes her so \\"real\\" and just grabs you right from the start. As for the hero, well Jack was great too.  I loved how he stood up for Emma and tried to boost her confidence.  It was also great how he made Emma feel that she is a very desirable woman regardless of her insecurities both physically and professionally.<br /><br />Sure, some things might seem far-fetched, but they are also hysterical and made for some real light and fun read.  I was laughing so much the first time the main characters met when Emma, thinking that they were headed for a plane crash, started spilling all her secrets to the handsome stranger next to her, only to survive the flight and later found out that he was the owner of the firm she works at! You won't be disappointed and will surely love reading about Emma's escapades and how she finally gets her man in the end.	2005-09-09
US	15230875	R2BXPW1YFGENYI	0380811073	751978069	Worth Any Price (Bow Street, Book 3)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Highly sensual (Bow Street # 3)	For many years, his dark and painful past has haunted him, leaving a scar still too raw for him to deal with. Having rejected his claim to an old and noble title, he opted instead to keep his real identity a secret, taking up the identity of his dead prison mate to become the notorious Nick Gentry. When he was given a second chance to live, he becomes a Bow Street runner gaining a reputation as a man to be reckoned with.<br /><br />She is the runaway bride of a wealthy aristocrat. Growing up under the watchful eye of the despicable Earl, Charlotte Howard knew that the only way to keep her soul and sanity is to turn her back away from her family and create a new identity for herself. And it seemed that she finally made it- until the notorious Bow Street runner sets foot in Stony Cross Park where she has been working as the dowager countess' maid.<br /><br />After being commissioned by a wealthy Lord to find his runaway bride, Nick Gentry doesn't realize that meeting the elusive Charlotte Howard would change his life for instead of finding a stubborn female, just as her parents had made her out to be, he finds one in desperate need of protection. It doesn't take long for him to realize that she was a victim of her parents' greed, a lamb sent to slaughter in exchange for money. As for Charlotte, she knows that Nick would be able to protect her from Lord Radnor, who would destroy her very soul if she ends up in his hands. But what neither of them knows is that there lays another challenge for them - for the truth about each other's past is an obstacle they must overcome.<br /><br />WORTH ANY PRICE is the third instalment in the Bow Street trilogy. Sensual and provocative, it is a typical Kleypas book that had me glued from the start. After meeting Nick on the previous book \\"LADY SOPHIA'S LOVER\\", I was eager to read his story to see what happens to him after his brother-in-law saved him from hanging. It was good to see that he's been reformed, yet also sad at the same time to fully learn about his time in prison when he was just a boy. That's why I was glad for him to finally meet Charlotte, the woman who accepts and loves him despite his seedy past.<br /><br />With good storyline and sizzling love scenes, you will enjoy seeing the former villain brought down on his knees by the love of a wonderful lady who also help him face his inner demons brought upon by his tortured childhood.same time to fully learn about his time in prison when he was just a boy. That's why I was glad for him to finally meet Charlotte, the woman who accepts and loves him despite his seedy past.  <br /> <br />With good storyline and sizzling love scenes, you will enjoy seeing the former villain brought down on his knees by the love of a wonderful lady who also help him face his inner demons brought upon by his tortured childhood.	2005-09-09
US	15230875	R34ZZKCQITE9HB	0380811065	920055797	Lady Sophia's Lover (Bow Street, Book 2)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Sizzling! (Bow Street # 2)	Sir Ross Cannon is a very powerful figure in London's political world. As the Chief Magistrate, his very name commands respect and obedience from people all over. But after losing his wife five years ago, he became the so-called Monk of Bow Street. Devastated by his wife's death, he has immersed himself in his job, vowing to remain celibate until he finds the right woman. And after years of unspent passion, the woman he's been waiting for finally walks into his office...<br /><br />Orphaned at a very young age, she was left with practically nothing except her younger brother John. But when tragedy befalls him, Sophia Sydney has had one purpose, which is to avenge her brother's death against the magistrate who sent him to prison. As soon as she finds out that an assistant was required at Bow Street, she applies for the position with one single goal: to seduce and destroy the Chief Magistrate. But one thing she never expected was to feel unnerved by Sir Ross. And after years of waiting to finally avenge her brother, Sophia is frightened that her plan to destroy Ross might actually lead to her own downfall.<br /><br />Along with her role as his assistant, Sophia also became his housekeeper thereby gaining her permanent lodging at his house right next to the Bow Street office. She is delighted thinking that her plan would be easier to achieve. She can steal information from his files and use them to destroy his reputation, and she will also seduce and make him fall in love with her, and then break his heart into pieces. Yet what perplexes her is Ross' character. She is disturbed by the realization that he isn't the evil man she thought him to be. In fact, she finds him compassionate, forgiving and very kind. And it doesn't take long before her revulsion for him quickly crumbles and she soon finds it harder to ignore her growing attraction for him.<br /><br />It is an attraction shared by Ross. From the moment he laid eyes on her, he knew he wanted her. What started out as desire soon develops into a feeling of protectiveness. He knows that she is harboring secrets from him and he is determined to uncover them and ultimately win her trust and love.<br /><br />LADY SOPHIA'S LOVER is a very sensuous tale of love, passion and deceit, set amidst the political world of Victorian London. The characters are well drawn and easy to like. Even the secondary characters add to the fun and intrigue. Ross' grandfather's bluntness will have you grinning, while the villain Nick Gentry's actions would make you hate him yet his complexity is also quite intriguing. I can't wait to read WORTH ANY PRICE to see what eventually happens with Nick.<br /><br />With steamy love scenes and a great hero (is it any wonder Sophia fell in love with him so easily?), this is a book that will hold your interest from the start.rted out as desire soon develops into a feeling of protectiveness. He knows that she is harboring secrets from him and he is determined to uncover them and ultimately win her trust and love.  <br /> <br />LADY SOPHIA'S LOVER is a very sensuous tale of love, passion and deceit, set amidst the political world of Victorian London. The characters are well drawn and easy to like. Even the secondary characters add to the fun and intrigue. Ross' grandfather's bluntness will have you grinning, while the villain Nick Gentry's actions would make you hate him yet his complexity is also quite intriguing. I can't wait to read WORTH ANY PRICE to see what eventually happens with Nick.  <br /> <br />With steamy love scenes and a great hero (is it any wonder Sophia fell in love with him so easily?), this is a book that will hold your interest from the start.	2005-09-09
US	15230875	RTJV2HRYTPYYC	0515138851	207294636	Dark Secret (The Carpathians (Dark) Series, Book 12)	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Not a bad addition to the series, but not one of the best either - 3.5 stars	After a tragic plane accident that killed her mother and left her beloved stepfather paralyzed, Colby Jansen has shouldered the burden of running their ranch, caring for her invalid stepfather, Armando, and younger siblings. Despite the difficulties, she never once complained and has worked from sunup to sundown to support her family financially. But when her stepfather dies, Colby is dealt another blow when Armando's family threatens to tear her family apart. Before she knew it, two of Armando's brothers are at her front step, and accompanying them are the powerful De La Cruz brothers.<br /><br />He is one of ancients sent out by Prince Vlad centuries ago to hunt down vampires. Along with four of his brothers, he has killed many vampires and with each kill, a part of his soul and sanity is taken from him. Fighting down the beast that threatens to rise, Rafael has only his brothers to rely on to keep his code of honor intact and keep from succumbing to evil. Upon learning of his human family's battle with a young American woman who refuses to let her half brother and sister move to Brazil, he travels with Juan and Julio Chevez to the US ranch to assist in getting the kids. But he never expected that the woman would be his lifemate - the very salvation he's been yearning for more nearly two thousand years. And Rafael knew right there and then that he must do everything in his power to protect her from harm.<br /><br />When Colby comes face to face with Rafael, she feels an immediate attraction that is so intense it scares her. Drawn to the man whom she thinks oozes power and menace, she knows she needs to fight what she feels for him, especially with the threat of losing her siblings to the Chevez family. As for Rafael, the emotions he feel for her are so foreign to him that he is overwhelmed and confused, and as much as he tries to control himself, the dominant nature of the Carpathian males refuse to be tamed.<br /><br />Except for the anthologies, I have read all the Dark Series books and Rafael is by far the most dominant off all the males. The man almost makes Gregori (DARK MAGIC) seem so placid! As for Colby, well she's not exactly the most endearing heroine in the series, but I did like how she managed to fend for herself and her siblings after their parents' death. I just wish that she weren't so stubborn.<br /><br />DARK SECRET is the most action-packed installment in the series. We see plenty of battles between the hunters and vampires, and we learn that the undead are far more cunning and stronger. No longer are they living in solitude but are now are congregating to form a powerful force intent on ruling over the world. And as usual for Feehan, the book is also filled with plenty of sex scenes. Another bonus to this is the involvement of Vikirnoff Von Shrieder, whom we first met in DARK DESTINY. The author has set up the pace perfectly for his story (DARK DEMON) by introducing us to his lifemate Natalya (although neither knows it yet). Now we know why the vampires are after her - she's a Dragonseeker, one of the most revered bloodline of their race. I can't wait for the book to come out.<br /><br />Overall, DARK SECRET was a pretty good read, but one of my least favorites in the series.d all the Dark Series books and Rafael is by far the most dominant off all the males. The man almost makes Gregori (DARK MAGIC) seem so placid! As for Colby, well she's not exactly the most endearing heroine in the series, but I did like how she managed to fend for herself and her siblings after their parents' death. I just wish that she weren't so stubborn.  <br />  <br />DARK SECRET is the most action-packed installment in the series. We see plenty of battles between the hunters and vampires, and we learn that the undead are far more cunning and stronger. No longer are they living in solitude but are now are congregating to form a powerful force intent on ruling over the world. And as usual for Feehan, the book is also filled with plenty of sex scenes. Another bonus to this is the involvement of Vikirnoff Von Shrieder, whom we first met in DARK DESTINY. The author has set up the pace perfectly for his story (DARK DEMON) by introducing us to his lifemate Natalya (although neither knows it yet). Now we know why the vampires are after her - she's a Dragonseeker, one of the most revered bloodline of their race. I can't wait for the book to come out. <br /> <br />Overall, DARK SECRET was a pretty good read, but one of my least favorites in the series.	2005-07-31
US	15230875	R180KN8UW59RV2	038078145X	15276320	Stranger in My Arms	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Good mystery, wonderful story - 4.5 stars	In a time when most widows her age would have gone looking for another husband, Lady Larissa savored her independence and vowed not to remarry for fear of being subjected to the same treatment that she endured from her deceased husband, the late Earl of Hawksworth. Married at a young age, Lara lived in a loveless marriage, having to put up with a man who dominated and humiliated her. Upon learning that the earl apparently died at sea, she felt free and devoted all her time helping the less fortunate. But never in her wildest dream did she think she would ever hear the following words said to her: \\"Lady Hawksworth, your husband is not dead\\".<br /><br />Three years ago, he left for India only to be proclaimed dead two years later from a shipwreck. Now he's back from the dead, much to the shock of everyone in England. But what's more shocking is the apparent change in him. Not only is he leaner in appearance, but also what's astounding is his behavior. He seems friendlier and more agreeable. If his physical appearance undeniably proclaims him as the real Hunter, it is the change in character that had a few people doubting the legitimacy of his claim. And nobody is more in doubt than his own wife.<br /><br />The moment he walked into her cottage, Lara was stunned. It was as if her whole world has come crumbling down. Ashamed as she was to admit it, she was happier without him. She knows that his return means fighting for the independence and self-respect that she's built since he left. For Hunter, he understands her apprehension. He knows that Lara was unhappy with how things were between them before. So this time, he promises to make things right. The only problem is trying to convince her to give him another chance and make her believe.<br /><br />STRANGER IN MY ARMS reminded me of the movie Sommersby, except I don't recall getting all emotional about the whole movie, which I did while reading this novel. From the opening sentence, I had a feeling that it was going to be quite an engaging read, and boy I wasn't wrong. I was hooked and waiting for Hunter's return and see how it was going to affect Lara. It was interesting to see the comparison between the old and the new Hunter and the havoc those changes do to Lara's emotions. And as his kindness and gentleness breaks her resistance down, he starts to win her trust and eventually her heart.<br /><br />For Lara, even though she is starting to believe that fate has given her the husband she's always dreamed of, there is that nagging feeling that the new Hunter just seems too good to be true. And one thing I liked about this book is how the author kept the mystery going, because for one minute I was convinced that he was an impostor, while the next I was so sure that it was the real Hunter.<br /><br />With good dialogue, mystery, a compelling plot and a wonderful ending, this is another great book from Lisa Kleypas. And yes, watch out for the alcove scene that is sure to steam things up.going to be quite an engaging read, and boy I wasn't wrong. I was hooked and waiting for Hunter's return and see how it was going to affect Lara. It was interesting to see the comparison between the old and the new Hunter and the havoc those changes do to Lara's emotions. And as his kindness and gentleness breaks her resistance down, he starts to win her trust and eventually her heart.  <br /> <br />For Lara, even though she is starting to believe that fate has given her the husband she's always dreamed of, there is that nagging feeling that the new Hunter just seems too good to be true. And one thing I liked about this book is how the author kept the mystery going, because for one minute I was convinced that he was an impostor, while the next I was so sure that it was the real Hunter.  <br /> <br />With good dialogue, mystery, a compelling plot and a wonderful ending, this is another great book from Lisa Kleypas. And yes, watch out for the alcove scene that is sure to steam things up.	2005-07-30
US	15230875	RHJ2KUO4G50EO	0380802317	746993091	Where Dreams Begin	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Wonderful story - 4.5 stars	This is a poignant story about how an unexpected moonlight kiss brought together two people who couldn't be more different than day and night.<br /><br />Zachary Bronson has come a long way from the kid who grew up in poverty. Through hard work and sheer determination, he has built himself a fortune to rival that of the wealthiest aristocrat in England. Having amassed an obscene amount of wealth, he has one more thing that he aspires to - to belong to the first society. Yet typical of the English nobility, they look at Zachary and only see a ruthless and shrewd manipulator, vulgar in breeding and manners and basically someone they are reluctant to welcome into their world. Thus, he has set his mind into marrying someone of impeccable lineage, believing that would gain him access to the haute ton.<br /><br />As a daughter of an Earl, Lady Holland Taylor has lived by society's rules. She went through proper courtship, married a man from a very respectable family and when fate took her husband George away from her, she vowed to honor his memory by abiding by society's rules and fulfilling his dying wish. Yet after coming out of a three-year mourning, she has grown restless of her life and wishes to escape the warm security of her late husband's family.<br /><br />While attending her first ball since she was widowed three years ago, little did Holly know that it was the night that would change her life forever. Feeling suffocated and uncomfortable with the ton, she goes to the conservatory while waiting for her carriage. As it turns out, she stumbles upon a tryst involving the infamous Zachary Bronson, who then mistakes her for his date and instantly kisses her. To their great surprise, both feel a lingering spark from those stolen kisses. Holly runs away intent on putting those memories behind, while Zachary is determined to find out the identity of the woman whose lips stirred him like no other had. And when he does find out, he hatches a plan and makes Holly a very irresistible offer that sees her and her daughter living with Zachary.<br /><br />WHERE DREAMS BEGIN is a sweet tale of a how a hired trainer becomes the trainee, and how love sees her vowing out of society's dictates to pursue her heart and desire. Zachary Bronson, while lacking proper breeding and connection in the society's standards, is a man of compassion, gentle and generous to those who he love and kind to the needy. Holly is the woman who sees beneath the surface and comes to love the `scoundrel' for who he truly is, which adds to the poignancy of the story, for it was good to see Holly defy convention to live and love a man whom the upper society deems as beneath them despite his wealth. Although the middle part dragged a bit, I enjoyed reading how Holly teaches the Bronson household proper decorum to enable them to fit within the ton. Another wonderful addition is Holly's daughter Rose, whose childish candor is such a delight that I absolutely loved every scene she's in.<br /><br />This book actually reminded me of DREAMING OF YOU in some ways, which is one of my favorite historical. Had I not read that book first, I would have probably given this 5 stars, but because I thought that DREAMING OF YOU is much better than this, I'm only giving this 4 and a half.a very irresistible offer that sees her and her daughter living with Zachary.  <br /> <br />WHERE DREAMS BEGIN is a sweet tale of a how a hired trainer becomes the trainee, and how love sees her vowing out of society's dictates to pursue her heart and desire. Zachary Bronson, while lacking proper breeding and connection in the society's standards, is a man of compassion, gentle and generous to those who he love and kind to the needy. Holly is the woman who sees beneath the surface and comes to love the `scoundrel' for who he truly is, which adds to the poignancy of the story, for it was good to see Holly defy convention to live and love a man whom the upper society deems as beneath them despite his wealth. Although the middle part dragged a bit, I enjoyed reading how Holly teaches the Bronson household proper decorum to enable them to fit within the ton. Another wonderful addition is Holly's daughter Rose, whose childish candor is such a delight that I absolutely loved every scene she's in.  <br /> <br />This book actually reminded me of DREAMING OF YOU in some ways, which is one of my favorite historical. Had I not read that book first, I would have probably given this 5 stars, but because I thought that DREAMING OF YOU is much better than this, I'm only giving this 4 and a half.	2005-07-30
US	15230875	R3837I68W3MOWJ	0671739743	598069709	The Velvet Promise	Books	4	21	25	N	N	Good introduction to the Velvet Quarter	Judith Revedoune has lived a sheltered life. Bearing the weight of her father's hatred for being born a female, she was raised by her mother away from the public eye, and prepared her for a life in a convent. But when her two brothers died, her father turned his attention to the daughter whose existence he barely acknowledged, and ordered her to marry so she could produce the heirs he so desired. When she refused, he broke her mother's arm in front of her and made further threats unless she complied. Fearing for her mother's life, Judith was left with no other choice but to marry the man chosen by her cruel father.<br /><br />Gavin Montgomery was only sixteen when he and his brothers were orphaned. Being the eldest, he managed the Montgomery estate and has been the lord and protector of his brothers and people for over a decade. When Robert Revedoune offered his daughter's hand in marriage, the Montgomerys knew it would be a good match for Robert's daughter comes with a very large dowry, which would immensely help the Montgomerys financially. But Gavin had already given his heart to Alice Valence, a woman whose coldness is apparent to everyone but Gavin himself. A woman whom Gavin has put upon a pedestal.<br /><br />When Gavin learns that Alice is to marry a wealthy earl, he is heartbroken but still falls for Alice's treachery, believing that her father forced her to marry the old earl, not knowing that it was Alice herself who chose the earl in the hope of advancing her current position. So Gavin reluctantly agrees to Revedoune's offer and accepts Judith for his wife. Come the wedding day, everyone rejoiced but nobody was more shocked and delighted than the bride and groom. Both were mesmerized by each other's looks and actually looked forward to getting to know each other better... then entered Alice. With her crocodile tears and feigned heartbreak, she took advantage of Gavin's love for her and made him vow to love her regardless of whom they're with. Locked in a passionate embrace, Judith witnessed everything, and hurt by the truth, she vowed to never let her husband rule her heart.<br /><br />THE VELVET PROMISE is the first book in the Velvet Quartet featuring the Montgomery brothers. Featuring a great storyline and well-drawn characters, I enjoyed reading the book and learning about the characters. Judith is well educated, kindhearted and unaware of her beauty. I liked how she wove her magic net around Gavin's brothers and his people, not so much by her beauty, but by her kindness and intelligence. I enjoyed how her brothers-in-law became her biggest admirers and protectors, the way they stood up for her and berate Gavin for his foolishness in vowing eternal love for Alice are some of the best part in the story. There were actually moments when I wished that someone would just give Gavin a big whack in the head for his stupidity, and at times I wished that Judith married Raine instead of him. But for all his foolishness, Gavin made me laugh sometimes. The way he got jealous over the way his brother fawned over Judith, or his shock over the way she seemed to be able to manage his estate better than him was fun to see.<br /><br />Although there are a couple of subplots that I could have done without, this is a nice introduction to the Montgomery brothers. There is enough sensuality to keep the pages burning, and you will enjoy seeing the villains meet justice. Best of all, the author has done well in depicting Stephen, Raine and Miles, which left me wanting to read their own stories.<br /><br />The other books in the series are HIGHLAND VELVET, VELVET SONG and VELVET ANGEL.in a passionate embrace, Judith witnessed everything, and hurt by the truth, she vowed to never let her husband rule her heart. <br /> <br />THE VELVET PROMISE is the first book in the Velvet Quartet featuring the Montgomery brothers. Featuring a great storyline and well-drawn characters, I enjoyed reading the book and learning about the characters. Judith is well educated, kindhearted and unaware of her beauty. I liked how she wove her magic net around Gavin's brothers and his people, not so much by her beauty, but by her kindness and intelligence. I enjoyed how her brothers-in-law became her biggest admirers and protectors, the way they stood up for her and berate Gavin for his foolishness in vowing eternal love for Alice are some of the best part in the story. There were actually moments when I wished that someone would just give Gavin a big whack in the head for his stupidity, and at times I wished that Judith married Raine instead of him. But for all his foolishness, Gavin made me laugh sometimes. The way he got jealous over the way his brother fawned over Judith, or his shock over the way she seemed to be able to manage his estate better than him was fun to see.  <br /> <br />Although there are a couple of subplots that I could have done without, this is a nice introduction to the Montgomery brothers. There is enough sensuality to keep the pages burning, and you will enjoy seeing the villains meet justice. Best of all, the author has done well in depicting Stephen, Raine and Miles, which left me wanting to read their own stories. <br /> <br />The other books in the series are HIGHLAND VELVET, VELVET SONG and VELVET ANGEL.	2005-07-28
US	15230875	R27XHYXRKGNVQM	0671870114	215596206	Saving Grace	Books	4	10	10	N	N	A wonderful introduction to Julie Garwood	Married to a wealthy and powerful baron at a young age, Lady Johanna lived a rather solitary life, trapped in a loveless marriage with an abusive and oppressive husband. Made to feel worthless, she kept her agony a secret, opting to suffer in silence while praying fervently to God for salvation. Then one day, she thought that her prayers are finally answered when she hears the news that her husband, Baron Raulf, is dead. But it doesn't take long before she is faced with another catastrophe for King John intends to marry her off to another baron, one whom she fears and abhors. When her brother, Nicholas, hears of the king's intentions, he convinces Johanna to marry a Scottish laird whom he holds in high regard, for he knows that Johanna's life is in danger if she stays in England because she holds some knowledge that will incriminate the king.<br /><br />Born illegitimate, Gabriel MacBain carried the taint of his bastardry for a long time. Never once acknowledged by his father, Laird MacLaurin, he learned to fend for himself growing up to be a respected and esteemed warrior. When an English army attacked the Highlands, his late father's clan turned to him and he became Laird over the two clans, the MacBains and the MacLaurins. When Nicholas approaches him offering his sister's hand in marriage, he adamantly says no, but upon realizing that Johanna had a legitimate claim on their land, he reluctantly agrees and secretly vows to stay away from his future wife after they marry.<br /><br />But both are in for a surprise for it doesn't take long before their initial hesitation leads to acceptance of each other. While Gabriel thought that Johanna was too timid for his liking, he realized that this was the effect of her abusive marriage, and immediately felt an overwhelming need to protect her. As for Johanna, she quickly realizes that underneath the gruff exterior lays a tender and kind-hearted man who will respect and keep her safe. And it was good seeing Johanna come out of her shell and learn to stand up for herself. Yes, she does start off quite timid from the start, but this is understandable considering her age and experience with her previous husband. That's why I liked how she managed to tame Gabriel's fearsome dog, earned the respect of his men and befriend the jealous women from the MacLaurin clan. And I especially enjoyed Gabriel's pride in her, and more importantly, the fact that he is the first one to admit his love for her and how much he needs for her to trust and love him.<br /><br />SAVING GRACE is a medieval romance set in 13th century England and Scotland. Featuring great characters, I enjoyed seeing the love that blossomed between the Gabriel and Johanna. Their tenderness toward each other is something to cherish and, in the end, I was happy that Johanna has finally met her own archangel.<br /><br />This is my first Julie Garwood book (indeed, a terrific introduction) and I look forward to reading more of her work.out of her shell and learn to stand up for herself. Yes, she does start off quite timid from the start, but this is understandable considering her age and experience with her previous husband. That's why I liked how she managed to tame Gabriel's fearsome dog, earned the respect of his men and befriend the jealous women from the MacLaurin clan. And I especially enjoyed Gabriel's pride in her, and more importantly, the fact that he is the first one to admit his love for her and how much he needs for her to trust and love him. <br /> <br />SAVING GRACE is a medieval romance set in 13th century England and Scotland. Featuring great characters, I enjoyed seeing the love that blossomed between the Gabriel and Johanna. Their tenderness toward each other is something to cherish and, in the end, I was happy that Johanna has finally met her own archangel. <br /> <br />This is my first Julie Garwood book (indeed, a terrific introduction) and I look forward to reading more of her work.	2005-07-25
US	15230875	R195ZP4JI9BC1C	0843950501	848324717	Dark Destiny (The Carpathians (Dark) Series, Book 11)	Books	3	21	22	N	N	Good, but not one of Feehan's best - 3.5 stars	She was six when she fell for the charms of a vampire who murdered her family, captured her and then converted her. Through the most horrible and degrading period of her young life, she relied on one man, the one she miraculously connected with. Although oceans apart, he became her constant companion, the savior she relied on for her sanity. Relying on him for emotional support, she survived the terror and havoc wreaked by her captor, and when she finally killed the vampire who stole her innocence and youth, she swore vengeance against all the undead and became a hunter to be reckoned with.<br /><br />He is one of the ancient hunters sent out by the previous prince to rid the world of vampires. Together with his brother, he fought numerous battles, with each kill stealing a piece of his soul. His code of honor was the only thing that kept him from succumbing to darkness. But when a child connects to him unexpectedly, she became an obsession for him, another reason for him to hold on until he found her and saved her from the clutches of evil. Immediately he set out to find her, at the same time accompanying her from a distance in her solitude. Not once did she say a word to him, but always she shared her pain and sorrow. So with the only thing he felt he could give her, he prepared her for her battles with the undead, honing her skills and lending her strength. Now after years of search that felt like eternity, he finally found her.<br /><br />While in the middle of a fierce battle with vampires, Destiny finally came face to face with Nicolae when he saves her from an ambush. But with no knowledge of Carpathians and never having met one before, she runs away from him, fearful of falling for his gentle voice, although something deep inside is telling her that Nicolae isn't like the vampire who lured her into a false friendship with his friendly voice and fake smile. Her instincts are telling her that the man who was her constant companion throughout her ordeal is telling her the truth. As for Nicolae, in spite of his immense powers, he doesn't want to force her compliance, preferring her full consent. He has no intention of betraying her by doing anything that will resemble the actions of the evil creature that stole her childhood.<br /><br />DARK DESTINY is another sensual and action-packed installment in the Dark series. The Carpathians are now facing more problems now that the undead are starting to form an alliance intent on killing the hunters. And taking a different tone from the previous books, this delves into the more sensitive issues of child abuse and trauma, as seen in the eyes of the heroine. I thought Destiny was very courageous and Nicolae so gentle with his approach. The way he helped Destiny survived years of solitude and how he finally helped her beat her inner demons was the best gift that he could give her. I especially enjoyed the feeling of belonging that the other Carpathians have bestowed on her toward the end.<br /><br />Yet all sweetness aside, I found that this pales in comparison to the other books, notably DARK PRINCE and DARK LEGEND. It's not so much the repetition, but rather the fact that the start of Nicolae and Destiny's relationship in the beginning wasn't fleshed out a little more. I thought it would have been really good if the story started out from when Destiny made the initial connection with Nicolae, just like the author did with DARK DESIRE. Secondly, I didn't find the humans here as entertaining or as interesting as some of those in the other books.<br /><br />However, don't let this deter you from reading this book. This is the 11th Carpathian book I have read and I'm still wanting more and can't wait to read about Nicolae's brother, Vikirnoff.uth. As for Nicolae, in spite of his immense powers, he doesn't want to force her compliance, preferring her full consent. He has no intention of betraying her by doing anything that will resemble the actions of the evil creature that stole her childhood.     DARK DESTINY is another sensual and action-packed installment in the Dark series. The Carpathians are now facing more problems now that the undead are starting to form an alliance intent on killing the hunters. And taking a different tone from the previous books, this delves into the more sensitive issues of child abuse and trauma, as seen in the eyes of the heroine. I thought Destiny was very courageous and Nicolae so gentle with his approach. The way he helped Destiny survived years of solitude and how he finally helped her beat her inner demons was the best gift that he could give her. I especially enjoyed the feeling of belonging that the other Carpathians have bestowed on her toward the end.      Yet all sweetness aside, I found that this pales in comparison to the other books, notably DARK PRINCE and DARK LEGEND. It's not so much the repetition, but rather the fact that the start of Nicolae and Destiny's relationship in the beginning wasn't fleshed out a little more. I thought it would have been really good if the story started out from when Destiny made the initial connection with Nicolae, just like the author did with DARK DESIRE. Secondly, I didn't find the humans here as entertaining or as interesting as some of those in the other books.    However, don't let this deter you from reading this book. This is the 11th Carpathian book I have read and I'm still wanting more and can't wait to read about Nicolae's brother, Vikirnoff.	2005-07-20
US	15230875	R2IVSZU1ODS7ME	0515135216	569070882	Dark Symphony (The Carpathians (Dark) Series, Book 9)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Dark novel laced with humor	At the age of five, she lost her parents at a tragic accident when their yacht exploded. Alerted by her sixth sense, she survived when she managed to jump overboard and later rescued by fishermen. Now at the age of thirty-seven, Antonietta Scarletti is a world-famous concert pianist and composer, and has the world at her feet. She is also heiress to the Scarletti fortune, which is a burden for her in some way for she is attracting the attention of fortune hunters. Resigned to the fact that no man could love her for herself, she has vowed never to marry nor share her heart with anyone. And then she met Byron Justicano.<br /><br />Many years ago, he was trapped and tortured by a vampire and used as bait to lure their Prince and his lifemate. He survived by hanging on to the hope that his lifemate awaits him somewhere. Blaming himself for endangering his friends, he turned his back on his people and homeland and traveled the continent hunting the undead. And it is in his self-imposed exile that he finally finds his salvation - the light that has kept him alive those many years ago.<br /><br />When Byron saw her walked out onstage, he was mesmerized by the way Antonietta seemed to weave her magic over her audience, captivating every one of them. He knew in that moment that she was the one. But he also realized that she is different, strong-willed and craves her independence. And so he vowed not to force her, making sure that she comes to his world willingly. So he starts by gaining her friendship and eventually her trust.<br /><br />Having read DARK PRINCE and DARK DESIRE, I was so glad to find out that Byron had his own story, especially after all the sufferings he endured from his torture. And it was great to see that he was as I imagined he would be. I liked how gentle he was with Antonietta and how he gave her a choice. I admired Antonietta's courage, how she didn't let her blindness stop her from achieving her goals, and how she embraced Byron's world with open arms.<br /><br />DARK SYMPHONY is a sensual and humorous novel. Unlike the other books in the series, this is a much lighter read and one of the funniest. I laughed so much at Byron's nephew's antics and seeing how mortified he is. This is also fascinating because Antonietta is a descendant of the main characters from THE SCARLETTI CURSE, and although it is not necessary to read that book, it would at least give you a richer understanding of the family history. And by incorporating the true nature and gifts of the Scarletti family with the Carpathians, we are now introduced to a whole new range of possibilities (and probably another story), for the author also introduces us to a new breed of species, the Jaguar, which the Scarlettis descended from.<br /><br />This is the tenth Dark Series book that I have read and I still can't get enough of those Carpathians. Enjoyable!open arms.  <br /> <br />DARK SYMPHONY is a sensual and humorous novel. Unlike the other books in the series, this is a much lighter read and one of the funniest. I laughed so much at Byron's nephew's antics and seeing how mortified he is. This is also fascinating because Antonietta is a descendant of the main characters from THE SCARLETTI CURSE, and although it is not necessary to read that book, it would at least give you a richer understanding of the family history. And by incorporating the true nature and gifts of the Scarletti family with the Carpathians, we are now introduced to a whole new range of possibilities (and probably another story), for the author also introduces us to a new breed of species, the Jaguar, which the Scarlettis descended from. <br /> <br />This is the tenth Dark Series book that I have read and I still can't get enough of those Carpathians. Enjoyable!	2005-07-18
US	15230875	R37VEZKELMR0K1	050552421X	958396308	Scarletti Curse (Candleglow)	Books	3	9	9	N	N	Has enough mystery to keep you reading	For many years, the Scarletti family history has been shrouded in curses and dark mysteries. Whispers of evil, murder and insanity have been going around the villagers about the family that rules their lands. They say that no bride has ever survived in the palazzo, and considering the number of women who have met their untimely death in what everyone has come to refer to as the Palazzo Della Morte (Palace of Death), it seemed that the curse is true.<br /><br />Unbeknown to the villagers, the current don has set his eyes on their healer, Nicoletta, the woman whose identity they have protected for fear that she will be branded a witch by those who might misinterpret her gift of healing. So how did Don Giovanni Scarletti find out about their beloved Nicoletta when no one has spoken of her to outsiders? Could the rumor be true then that he has powers because he is in league with the devil?<br /><br />THE SCARLETTI CURSE is a dark and mysterious novel filled with suspense and sensuality. Nicoletta is a very likable heroine, with her wit and exuberance. I loved the way she seemed to embrace life with such open arms. Her compassionate nature and youthful innocence is quite endearing. Giovanni's character is such a mystery. The way he treats Nicoletta with such tenderness is such a contrast from how people perceived him to be.<br /><br />I must say though that even though the author has done well in describing the atmosphere within the palazzo, including the design and architecture lending to the eeriness of the story, there were some parts that dragged a bit. I also didn't care much about the political intrigue, and thought that it wasn't blended in well with the story. I might have understood it more had the author bothered to actually tell us which date the story was meant to have happened (I'm only guessing 15th or 16th century). I know this seems trivial, but when I'm reading a historical novel, I do like to know what period it's supposed to be.<br /><br />Overall, this wasn't a bad book. I did enjoy the banter between the don and his barefoot bride. You can read about Giovanni and Nicoletta's descendant, Antonietta Scarletti, in Dark Symphony (which I'm reading at the moment).rall, this wasn't a bad book. I did enjoy the banter between the don and his barefoot bride. You can read about Giovanni and Nicoletta's descendant, Antonietta Scarletti, in Dark Symphony (which I'm reading at the moment).	2005-07-15
US	15230875	R1IKYN2RM7FAOL	0060507365	720423107	When Strangers Marry (Avon Historical Romance)	Books	3	7	7	N	N	Not Lisa's best	For years, Lysette has suffered the beatings and torments form her stepfather, Gaspard, who has squandered the money that her beloved father left behind. With the money gone, Gaspard is now forcing her to marry Etienne Sagesse, a cruel and fearful man from New Orleans. Determined to escape a doomed marriage with Etienne, she flees only to find herself caught trying to steal their pirogue by the Vallerand twins, who then take her back to their father, Max Vallerand, a wealthy plantation owner feared and condemned by the New Orleans society. Unbeknownst to Lysette, the Vallerands and Sagasses have a long withstanding feud brought about by Max's late wife's infidelity. Realizing the prize in his hands, Max decides to keep Lysette as payback to Etienne's affair with his dead wife Corinne. Although Lysette was shocked at Max's intention, she decides that she is better off compromised by him, a man who has managed to stir up her feelings, rather than be tied forever with the despicable Etienne. But has Lysette escaped her cruel betrothed only to seek sanctuary from the devil incarnate himself?<br /><br />Set amidst the political tension between Mexico and the United States, and against the backdrop of the vibrant place that is New Orleans, WHEN STRANGERS MARRY is a tale of how a young but highly-spirited and intelligent woman helps an embittered man comes to grips with his past and live a life free from guilt and regrets. Lysette is a delightful heroine, full of charm and humor. She is the perfect antidote to Max's brooding demeanor. I loved how she endears herself to Max by standing up to him and not putting up with his arrogance. As for Max, one couldn't help but like him for his gentleness toward Lysette, the way that he practically spoils her and treats her with such tenderness, that you know there is more to his initial intention on using Lysette as a means of getting back at Etienne.<br /><br />As with the other Lisa Kleypas novels that I've read, the main characters are likable and the sensuality is scorching without being vulgar. Unfortunately, I didn't really care much for the political subplot in this book although I did like the insight on the cultural difference between the Creoles and Americans. I would have loved to read more about Max and Lysette instead of having to jump from one subplot to another.<br /><br />Overall, this one didn't really leave a lasting impression on me. And I guess that I'm a little critical of this since my first Kleypas novel is DREAMING OF YOU and have since used that as a barometer for rating her other novels.  If you're new to Kleypas, I wouldn't recommend this for your first book.and the sensuality is scorching without being vulgar. Unfortunately, I didn't really care much for the political subplot in this book although I did like the insight on the cultural difference between the Creoles and Americans. I would have loved to read more about Max and Lysette instead of having to jump from one subplot to another.     Overall, this one didn't really leave a lasting impression on me. And I guess that I'm a little critical of this since my first Kleypas novel is DREAMING OF YOU and have since used that as a barometer for rating her other novels.  If you're new to Kleypas, I wouldn't recommend this for your first book.	2005-07-11
US	15230875	RJF67SLMB0RGD	0843950498	219046915	Dark Melody (The Carpathians (Dark) Series, Book 10)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Possibly the most intense of the Dark Series	At the age of four, he was forced to flee the Carpathian Mountains with five other kids, when their village was nearly razed down the ground by the Ottoman Turks, and many humans and Carpathians alike were massacred. Many centuries later and his group has remained together and formed a band called the Dark Troubadours, with him playing lead guitar. Now as typical of the males of their race, he has lost his ability to see in color and feel any emotions, and his family is the only thing that kept him from succumbing to darkness and becoming the undead. Never has it occurred to him that it is his love of playing and the haunting melody that he is able to produce that would eventually lead him to his lifemate for while jamming with a local group in a bar, in walks his salvation.<br /><br />Corinne Wentworth has always kept her life private. Born with the extraordinary gift of telekinesis, only two people are aware of this ability - John, her husband who also had a psychic gift, and his sister Lisa. Six months after John was murdered after disclosing his ability to the wrong people, Corinne is also targeted by her husband's murderers and carries the burden of a weak heart that has plagued her since birth, and the knowledge that she's pregnant and likely to die giving birth. So why is she so drawn to the musician who talks in a strange way and claims that she's his lifemate when she has always shared so little of herself with other people? What is the mesmerizing pull that makes her want to spend her remaining days with him?<br /><br />DARK MELODY is by far the most emotional in the Dark Series. Unlike the other books where the hero immediately binds the heroine early in the story, Dayan actually held back in fear of Corinne's health, worried that her heart condition will worsen even by a few hours of separation. I thought it was so wonderful how he controls himself and ever so ready to make the ultimate sacrifice should she lose her battle and die. The fact that even at the eleventh hour he was leaving the decision to Corinne and was ready to follow her into the next life made for some really tender moments. As for Corinne, I didn't think that she was weak regardless of her physical condition. I thought she was a woman who lived life to the full, did her best to understand Dayan's world without resorting to hysterics, and basically embraced everything and everyone that came with Dayan. And in the end, we do get to see her exuberance and full acceptance of her fate with Dayan.ur he was leaving the decision to Corinne and was ready to follow her into the next life made for some really tender moments. As for Corinne, I didn't think that she was weak regardless of her physical condition. I thought she was a woman who lived life to the full, did her best to understand Dayan's world without resorting to hysterics, and basically embraced everything and everyone that came with Dayan. And in the end, we do get to see her exuberance and full acceptance of her fate with Dayan.	2005-07-08
US	15230875	R3HYBEIK71D87X	0843949945	546367854	Dark Guardian (The Carpathians (Dark) Series, Book 8)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Wonderful ending!... 4.5 stars	For two centuries, Carpathians and vampires alike thought Lucian and Gabriel dead, with some claiming that the twins killed each other after Lucian apparently became one of the undead and his twin hunted him down. But in modern day Paris, the truth is finally unveiled when the greatest warriors rise from their long slumber. In DARK LEGEND (Gabriel's story), we are told about Lucian's sacrifice when after learning that his twin had a lifemate and sensing that Gabriel was on the verge of losing his soul, he pretended to be a vampire knowing that Gabriel would hold out to honor the vows they made to one another, which is to hunt the other one down if they ever succumbed to darkness. Now in this action-packed novel, it is Lucian's turn to finally meet his lifemate.<br /><br />After two thousand years of lonely existence, but satisfied in the knowledge that he prevented his twin from turning to ultimately unite him with his lifemate, the greatest existing warrior of their species comes to America in search of his lifemate. But what Lucian didn't expect was to find a woman who couldn't be more different from a typical Carpathian woman who is tall, dark-haired and peaceful, for Jaxon Montgomery is the exact opposite, with her short stature, shaggy blond hair and fiery spirit. But Lucian knows he has found his salvation in the 'walking arsenal' who has suffered greatly from the terrible burden she's been carrying since she was a young girl.<br /><br />Jaxon grew up in the company of Navy Seals, which her father was once a member of until his untimely death. When Jaxon's mother married Tyler Drake, who was Jaxon's father best friend, no one suspected that the guy was demented until it was too late. Tyler murdered Jaxon's mother and brother, then her foster family shortly after. From then on, she has avoided getting close to anyone, aware of the threat to other people's lives due to Tyler's obsession with her. So why, after having resigned herself to always being alone is she drawn to a virtual stranger who claims that she is his lifemate? Why does the thought of being apart from him leave her feeling empty and more alone than ever?<br /><br />DARK GUARDIAN is a witty and exciting novel that had me glued from the very first page. I enjoyed the banter between Lucian and Jaxon. She is dynamite in a small package, able to stand up to Lucian's arrogance and keep him in his place. And I never expected for Lucian to possess such humor. I mean this is a powerful Carpathian who is able to destroy from a distance with his voice alone, a man who has been void of emotions for over a thousand years, and yet finds delight in his verbal sparring with the tiny cop whom he describes as a walking arsenal.<br /><br />Fun and enjoyable, this book also has the most wonderful ending of the Dark Series so far. I totally loved it!tual stranger who claims that she is his lifemate? Why does the thought of being apart from him leave her feeling empty and more alone than ever?    DARK GUARDIAN is a witty and exciting novel that had me glued from the very first page. I enjoyed the banter between Lucian and Jaxon. She is dynamite in a small package, able to stand up to Lucian's arrogance and keep him in his place. And I never expected for Lucian to possess such humor. I mean this is a powerful Carpathian who is able to destroy from a distance with his voice alone, a man who has been void of emotions for over a thousand years, and yet finds delight in his verbal sparring with the tiny cop whom he describes as a walking arsenal.    Fun and enjoyable, this book also has the most wonderful ending of the Dark Series so far. I totally loved it!	2005-07-06
US	15230875	R115CFR8967HKA	084394952X	372620519	Dark Legend (The Carpathians (Dark) Series, Book 7)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	One of my favorites	For centuries, they fought side-by-side, defending the Carpathian race and ridding the world of vampires. Warriors and defenders of their people, their very names commanded both respect and fear. But after more than a thousand years, the legendary twins disappeared off the face of the earth, becoming mythical creatures. Some say they've killed each other, after Lucian apparently succumbed to darkness and became vampire and Gabriel hunted him down, while some say they never really existed. The truth is no one really knows what happened, and for a long time it seemed that the twins will remain legends not to be forgotten... until one fateful night in Paris.<br /><br />After two centuries buried within the very earth, Gabriel awakens to the disturbing feeling that his twin Lucian has freed himself. Fearing for humans and immortals alike, Gabriel rises, intent on stopping his twin from wreaking havoc. But feeling disoriented and lost amidst the modern world, he staggers while looking for prey to satisfy his centuries of hunger. Never did he imagine though that he would find his salvation amidst the chaotic world that he has woken up to.<br /><br />Even as a young girl, she knew that Gabriel was her lifemate. Patiently she waited until she was old enough for him to claim her. What she never expected was for him to simply ignore and walk away from her. And that day at the village would forever be etched in her mind. So as soon as she was able to, she turned her back from her people and homeland.<br /><br />Now after centuries of research and experiment, Francesca has managed to live like a human, shielding herself from her fellow Carpathians and managing not to raise suspicions among humans. To the world, she is an extraordinary healer with a heart of gold. Devoted to helping the less fortunate, it is her compassionate nature that drew her to the filthy stranger that fateful night. Unaware of his identity, she was puzzled by the sudden urgency to help him, even going so far as to take him home. When she offers him food, he surprises her by saying that he requires another form of nourishment. But Gabriel was more surprised when she offers her blood willingly to him. And as soon as he takes her blood, he knew that he has found the very soul who will end two thousand years of bleak existence.<br /><br />DARK LEGEND introduces us to the most powerful Carpathians to live on earth. After brief mentions of them from the previous books, it was good to finally read about what happened with the twins. I absolutely loved Gabriel and Francesca. I personally thought that she's one of the better heroines in the Dark Series so far. Not only is she a great healer, but she also has enough strength and intelligence to match someone as powerful as Gabriel is. I liked how she tries to ease Gabriel's guilt about inadvertently abandoning her, convincing him that he has done more for his people by hunting the creatures that threatened their existence. As for Gabriel, I adored his gentleness especially toward Skyler, the young human girl who they later take under their care. I thought it was wonderful how sorry he was for practically sentencing Francesca to a life of solitary existence after he walked away from her to choose the life of a hunter. And the way he suffered over his responsibility to fulfill his vow to Lucian to destroy him after realizing that he became the very thing that they have spent centuries hunting down just endeared him more to me.<br /><br />This book totally surpassed my expectations. I enjoyed every single page and I hope that Skyler gets her own story.When she offers him food, he surprises her by saying that he requires another form of nourishment. But Gabriel was more surprised when she offers her blood willingly to him. And as soon as he takes her blood, he knew that he has found the very soul who will end two thousand years of bleak existence.    DARK LEGEND introduces us to the most powerful Carpathians to live on earth. After brief mentions of them from the previous books, it was good to finally read about what happened with the twins. I absolutely loved Gabriel and Francesca. I personally thought that she's one of the better heroines in the Dark Series so far. Not only is she a great healer, but she also has enough strength and intelligence to match someone as powerful as Gabriel is. I liked how she tries to ease Gabriel's guilt about inadvertently abandoning her, convincing him that he has done more for his people by hunting the creatures that threatened their existence. As for Gabriel, I adored his gentleness especially toward Skyler, the young human girl who they later take under their care. I thought it was wonderful how sorry he was for practically sentencing Francesca to a life of solitary existence after he walked away from her to choose the life of a hunter. And the way he suffered over his responsibility to fulfill his vow to Lucian to destroy him after realizing that he became the very thing that they have spent centuries hunting down just endeared him more to me.    This book totally surpassed my expectations. I enjoyed every single page and I hope that Skyler gets her own story.	2005-07-05
US	15230875	R35B7E6I17TMWF	0505524473	740687630	Dark Fire (The Carpathians (Dark) Series, Book 6)	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Darius' story	The 6th book in the Dark Series continues with the story of another ancient Carpathian male who, for years, thought that his group was the only remaining people of their species.<br /><br />Darius was just a child when the Carpathian Mountain was attacked by the Ottoman Turks where hundreds of people, human and Carpathians alike, were left for dead. Possessing great powers even for his age, he managed to escape the village and got his sister and four other kids to safety. Now nearly a thousand years later and he remains their leader, and with his powers at full strength, he is the protector of his family and hunts vampire who threaten them. And with their family touring as a band, he acts as his sister Desari's bodyguard and manages all their schedules. But now that Desari has found Julian Savage, her lifemate, Darius feels ready to end the centuries of his bleak existence assured that Julian is powerful enough to look after the family. Fortunately for him, fate has a different plan when he finds himself faced with the new hired mechanic.<br /><br />Ever since she could remember, Tempest knew that she was different - able to talk to animals and understand their feelings. A product of growing up without a family, she moved from one foster home to the next and has survived as an adult with her mechanical skills. With twenty-dollars left in her pocket, she answers the ad on the paper and finds herself working for the Dark Troubadours. But the moment she lays eyes on their leader, she knew that her life would never be the same.<br /><br />Having lived for centuries void of any color or emotions, Darius was astounded to see rainbows of color swirling around him at the sight of Tempest. Right then, he knew that he has found his salvation in the form of the tiny redhead with a fiery temper to match, and vows to do everything in his power to keep her and protect her from harm. But as usual, things don't start smoothly for the couple for there are those fanatics who think to rid the world of anyone they suspect to be vampire.<br /><br />If you have read the other books, you will find this quite unique in that Darius actually gave Tempest a choice to join his race, if not, he was more than willing to grow old and die with her. I thought this was the most wonderful aspect in this book.<br /><br />DARK FIRE is another wonderful addition to the Dark Series. Although you will find that some scenes get repetitive, which tends to happen anyway with any series, the continuous rush you get from reading the book makes it a worthwhile read. There are enough actions to keep you glued, not to mention the humor provided by the other characters, who were introduced in the previous book DARK CHALLENGE. I do wish that Barack and Syndil get their own story though, because I know that Dayan does.<br /><br />Next in the series is DARK LEGEND featuring one of the legendary twins, Gabriel Daratrazanoff.one they suspect to be vampire.    If you have read the other books, you will find this quite unique in that Darius actually gave Tempest a choice to join his race, if not, he was more than willing to grow old and die with her. I thought this was the most wonderful aspect in this book.     DARK FIRE is another wonderful addition to the Dark Series. Although you will find that some scenes get repetitive, which tends to happen anyway with any series, the continuous rush you get from reading the book makes it a worthwhile read. There are enough actions to keep you glued, not to mention the humor provided by the other characters, who were introduced in the previous book DARK CHALLENGE. I do wish that Barack and Syndil get their own story though, because I know that Dayan does.     Next in the series is DARK LEGEND featuring one of the legendary twins, Gabriel Daratrazanoff.	2005-07-05
US	15230875	R3DQNMK9UCAHF2	0505524090	703185720	Dark Challenge (The Carpathians (Dark) Series, Book 5)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Sets the stage for a new bunch of Carpathians - 4.5 stars	In the 5th book of the Dark Series, we get to see the other \\"golden Adonis\\" of the Carpathian race, Julian Savage, meet his match.<br /><br />As untamed as the wind, Julian is one of the oldest ones of his kind. A great hunter, he possesses immense power having acquired much knowledge over the centuries.  But as typical of the males of their race, he has lived a solitary existence, void of color or emotion. Now he is truly feeling the emptiness of his life, a terrible existence that he no longer wants to endure. So with his mind made up, he's decided to greet the dawn as soon as he finishes the last errand assigned to him by their Prince. A task that will change his life forever.<br /><br />Desari was merely six-months-old when she, along with her brother and four other kids, was forced to flee the Carpathian Mountains when their town was besieged by vampire hunters. Now centuries later, they have formed a band called the Dark Troubadours, with her as the lead singer. Possessing an angelic voice, she is an enchantress who weaves her magic over her audience. But their odd lifestyle hasn't escaped the notice of those fanatics hell-bent on ridding the world of everyone whom they suspect to be vampires. And it is during one of her shows that she will find herself bound forever to Julian.<br /><br />The moment Julian hears her sing, colors immediately burst around him and he knew in that instant that Desari was the lifemate he's been waiting for. And when she is attacked and left for dead, he comes to her rescue and provides her blood, at the same time reciting the Carpathian ritual that will bind her to him for eternity. But when he is attacked by her bodyguards, he has no choice but to flee, therefore leaving Desari on her own, not knowing what happened to her, but feeling the emptiness that a lifemate feels in her other half's absence. The next time they meet, Desari is drawn to Julian and unable to stay away from him. As soon as the mating ritual is completed, she knows that she could never leave him. And after learning of his torment, she feels a strong need to end his centuries of meaningless existence and bring light to his darkness. But first she must overcome her own guilt for she is torn between two men whom she love dearly, torn over her loyalty to the brother who has given her so much over the centuries, and the need to follow her heart and be with the man who seemed to fill her life like nothing ever had.<br /><br />DARK CHALLENGE is an exciting story filled with plenty of actions and sensuality. What I liked most about this book is the fact that Desari is a true Carpathian with immense powers. The continuous banter between her and Julian were fun to read, and it was refreshing to see a female who didn't freak out too much about being bound to her lifemate. Another good thing is the involvement of her so-called family, a bunch of ancient Carpathians, who have lived for centuries thinking that they were the last of their race. And watch out for Desari's brother Darius. With his power and mysteriousness, you would want to read about his story, which is the next book after this (DARK FIRE).<br /><br />I really enjoyed reading this, although I would have loved to see Desari and Darius reunited with their older brother Gregori. That's why I can't wait to read DARK MELODY, as the long-awaited reunion apparently happens in that book.leave him. And after learning of his torment, she feels a strong need to end his centuries of meaningless existence and bring light to his darkness. But first she must overcome her own guilt for she is torn between two men whom she love dearly, torn over her loyalty to the brother who has given her so much over the centuries, and the need to follow her heart and be with the man who seemed to fill her life like nothing ever had.    DARK CHALLENGE is an exciting story filled with plenty of actions and sensuality. What I liked most about this book is the fact that Desari is a true Carpathian with immense powers. The continuous banter between her and Julian were fun to read, and it was refreshing to see a female who didn't freak out too much about being bound to her lifemate. Another good thing is the involvement of her so-called family, a bunch of ancient Carpathians, who have lived for centuries thinking that they were the last of their race. And watch out for Desari's brother Darius. With his power and mysteriousness, you would want to read about his story, which is the next book after this (DARK FIRE).    I really enjoyed reading this, although I would have loved to see Desari and Darius reunited with their older brother Gregori. That's why I can't wait to read DARK MELODY, as the long-awaited reunion apparently happens in that book.	2005-06-28
US	15230875	R2CP1FQGB5ODQL	0505519488	809127451	A Love Beyond Time (Timeswept)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Not as great as the first book - 3.5 stars	In this sequel to A TIME TO LOVE AGAIN, we get to see what happened with Danise who was a good friend of India Baldwin.  It picks up from when Hank, the computer-geek obsessed with time travel, escapes with India's files and laptop. Hoping to stop Hank from recreating India's adventures in the eighth century and possibly changing the course of history, she enlists the help of archaeologist Mike Bailey. Unfortunately, the confrontation doesn't go according to plan and before he knew it, Michael is accidentally thrust back in time, right in the arms of Danise and with no memory whatsoever.<br /><br />While out walking in the forest, Danise stumbles upon the unconscious stranger but instead of fear, she feels drawn to him, wanting to know more about the man with his strange clothes. And as she nurses him back to health, at the same time trying to help him regain his memory, both fight the intense attraction they feel for each other. For Danise, it is the fear that Michel (the adopted name of Mike) might in fact be married and she also feels guilty that she's betraying Hugo (the knight she fell in love with in the first book and who died the year before) whom she vowed to love for eternity. For Michel, it is his respect for Danise's father that stops him from pursuing her, not to mention that he doesn't have anything to offer her. And so both try to deny their growing feelings for each other, until Michel suddenly recovers his memory. Thinking that Hank wouldn't bring him back in order to eliminate the only witness he has, Michel accepts his life in 779AD and vows to live the life of a Frankish warrior hoping he will gain the wealth and respect he needs in order to pursue Danise.<br /><br />A LOVE BEYOND TIME features some of the characters in the first book, with a few additions to complicate the storyline. Danise and Michel meet a year after she loses her beloved Hugo in the Battle of Roncevaux, and we see her still bearing her heartbreak over his death. While both main characters are likable, I found that the story lacked the spark and emotions that made me like the first book. I found some parts were unnecessarily stretched and so I skipped a lot of pages. I also didn't feel the depth of love between Michel and Danise, compared with Theo and India.<br /><br />Having read \\"A Time to Love Again\\", I guess I had high expectations from this book, which is what makes me a bit critical. But even though this isn't as captivating as its predecessor, this is still quite an enjoyable read so long as you don't expect too much. Also if you have read the first book, don't expect to find an update on India and Theo's relationship, as their part in this is very little.e likable, I found that the story lacked the spark and emotions that made me like the first book. I found some parts were unnecessarily stretched and so I skipped a lot of pages. I also didn't feel the depth of love between Michel and Danise, compared with Theo and India.     Having read \\"A Time to Love Again\\", I guess I had high expectations from this book, which is what makes me a bit critical. But even though this isn't as captivating as its predecessor, this is still quite an enjoyable read so long as you don't expect too much. Also if you have read the first book, don't expect to find an update on India and Theo's relationship, as their part in this is very little.	2005-06-27
US	15230875	R2QHWJJJB92K2F	0843947365	62068589	Always (Leisure historical romance)	Books	4	18	21	N	N	Highly entertaining	After catching his betrothed Delia in the arms of another man, Aric of Burkhart drowns his sorrows in the company of his trusted friend, Robert of Shambley. Well into his cups, he is in the middle of condemning all women, vowing to never marry even under the threat of torture when a cloaked man suddenly appears and asks him if he would still keep his vow under the threat of death. Outraged by the man's audacity, he turns around only to find himself faced with his liege, King Henry II. Adding to his shock, the king wastes no time in announcing his intention to marry off his illegitimate but beloved daughter, Rosamunde, in order to protect her from possible danger with his throne currently under threat from his own sons' betrayal. And he declares his choice of husband for her to be Aric. Fearful of being drawn and quartered, Aric reluctantly obeys the king and they immediately ride off to the abbey where Rosamunde has lived since she was born. As fate would have it, they arrive in the abbey just in time for Rosamunde was about to take the veil the very next day. Now out of love for her father, Rosamunde obediently accepts her father's request for her to marry Aric.<br /><br />What follows is a hilarious beginning to their marriage. Having grown up in the company of nuns, Rosamunde has no idea what takes place in the marriage bed and briefly gets a crash lesson from Sister Eustice. After exchanging vows, King Henry orders them to consummate the marriage to ensure that it cannot be annulled, locks the two up in Rosamunde's small bedchamber and gives them a few minutes to get the deed done. What occurs is one of the most hilarious love scenes (if one can call it that) I have ever read. Due to ignorance, Rosamunde does and say some funny things that shock Aric! And the hilarity doesn't end there but continues all the way to their trip home to Goodhall Keep.<br /><br />Although some things were pretty far-fetched, you won't be able to help but laugh. Initially, Rosamunde comes across as a bit dense, but it is understandable because you do see how torn she is trying to hold true to the vow she's made to God and her father to obey her husband, and also the need to put Aric in his place when he becomes too stubborn and arrogant. As for Aric, even when he acts like a real jerk sometimes, it is amusing to see him struggle to suppress his feelings for Rosamunde and his ever-growing concern for her happiness and safety.<br /><br />Fun and entertaining, ALWAYS is a nice way to spend a leisurely afternoon when you're after a light-hearted read.a bit dense, but it is understandable because you do see how torn she is trying to hold true to the vow she's made to God and her father to obey her husband, and also the need to put Aric in his place when he becomes too stubborn and arrogant. As for Aric, even when he acts like a real jerk sometimes, it is amusing to see him struggle to suppress his feelings for Rosamunde and his ever-growing concern for her happiness and safety.    Fun and entertaining, ALWAYS is a nice way to spend a leisurely afternoon when you're after a light-hearted read.	2005-06-20
US	15230875	RTSY4I1WZL85T	0505523892	406492827	Dark Magic (The Carpathians (Dark) Series, Book 4)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	The Dark One	They call him the Dark One, bodyguard to their Prince and the most powerful of his kind. The second oldest Carpathian, Gregori is a legendary healer to his people, having acquired extensive knowledge over the centuries. Both revered and feared for his powers, he is a great hunter carrying out their Prince's sentence to those who have lost their souls and turned vampires. But it is also his unmatched powers that have sentenced him to centuries of bleak and empty existence, waiting desperately for his lifemate, the one who will bring light to his darkness. And if there's a male Carpathian more desperate, it is him for he knows that he is in the brink of losing his control, something that would bring hell to both mortals and immortals, for it is almost certain that no one, not even their own Prince could defeat the Dark One.<br /><br />In the Carpathian race, she is a mere fledging, having existed for only twenty-three years. Having lived a sheltered life under the protection of her parents, Raven and Mikhail, she grew up without any other children to play with and has formed a friendship with a wolf from the day she's started to crawl until the day she decided to come to America for a taste of freedom. Now after years of independence, she is faced with the one thing she has been running away from - Gregori, the only man to have ever kissed her, the one whose kiss she has never forgotten.<br /><br />Five years after leaving the Carpathian Mountains, Savannah Dubrinsky is now a world famous magician, a mistress of illusion, adored by many and hounded by the press. When after a successful show in San Francisco a vampire who wants to claim her as his lifemate kills her friend and manager, Peter, Gregori appears out of nowhere, kills the vampire and takes Savannah to his lair. Initially, Savannah is frightened of him. But the moment Gregori takes her in his arms and kisses her, she finds herself reacting with such great passion thinking to succumb to her desire just once until it is too late and the mating ritual has begun and the beast within Gregori is unleashed.<br /><br />Some people would probably find this part rather brutal and would despise Gregori for it. Personally, I thought that it was the beast in him, the one that has been threatening to send him to madness, that has brought this on. I actually felt his fear that he is succumbing to darkness when he begs Savannah to kill him. And even though Savannah suffers from it, she finally understands his torment and urges him to come back to her and accept the light that she is giving him.<br /><br />DARK MAGIC is an intriguing novel full of sensuality with a touch of wit and humor. Having read of Gregori in the first three books (DARK PRINCE, DARK DESIRE, DARK GOLD), his was the story that I was eagerly awaiting to read. It was good to see him finally meet his lifemate and I thought it was befitting that she is the daughter of Mikhail, the one man whom Gregori is loyal to. I loved how Savannah slowly teaches him to laugh and take things more lightly. Yes, he is arrogant to a fault, but he is of the Old World and has felt no emotions for centuries. All his feelings are practically foreign to him and you do see him struggle with his desire to please Savannah by giving her the independence she wants. We also see him struggle to overcome his over-protective nature, while at the same time trying to shelter her from the gritty reality of his existence. Savannah does come to realize this and if anyone can tame Gregori, it is she.<br /><br />Although some scenes dragged a bit, I did enjoy reading this book and seeing them fight off those evil vampire hunters. One of the things I liked the most is seeing Gregori finally befriending a human, for it proves that he is slowly softening under Savannah's influence.<br /><br />Next up is Julian Savage's story DARK CHALLENGE.late and the mating ritual has begun and the beast within Gregori is unleashed.     Some people would probably find this part rather brutal and would despise Gregori for it. Personally, I thought that it was the beast in him, the one that has been threatening to send him to madness, that has brought this on. I actually felt his fear that he is succumbing to darkness when he begs Savannah to kill him. And even though Savannah suffers from it, she finally understands his torment and urges him to come back to her and accept the light that she is giving him.     DARK MAGIC is an intriguing novel full of sensuality with a touch of wit and humor. Having read of Gregori in the first three books (DARK PRINCE, DARK DESIRE, DARK GOLD), his was the story that I was eagerly awaiting to read. It was good to see him finally meet his lifemate and I thought it was befitting that she is the daughter of Mikhail, the one man whom Gregori is loyal to. I loved how Savannah slowly teaches him to laugh and take things more lightly. Yes, he is arrogant to a fault, but he is of the Old World and has felt no emotions for centuries. All his feelings are practically foreign to him and you do see him struggle with his desire to please Savannah by giving her the independence she wants. We also see him struggle to overcome his over-protective nature, while at the same time trying to shelter her from the gritty reality of his existence. Savannah does come to realize this and if anyone can tame Gregori, it is she.    Although some scenes dragged a bit, I did enjoy reading this book and seeing them fight off those evil vampire hunters. One of the things I liked the most is seeing Gregori finally befriending a human, for it proves that he is slowly softening under Savannah's influence.    Next up is Julian Savage's story DARK CHALLENGE.	2005-06-20
US	15230875	R37PZ51EYIFT6R	082177428X	943278647	Highland Warrior	Books	3	14	14	N	N	Quite entertaining	If you have read HIGHLAND BRIDE featuring Connor MacEnroy and Gillyanne Murray) then you'd remember Fiona as the tomboyish thirteen-year-old sister of Connor.<br /><br />All grown up and no longer the gauche lass, we are introduced to a beautiful and spirited lady who has suffered the cruelty of an obsessed suitor. Kept locked in Deilcladach by her family for so long after having been abducted four times by Ranald Menzies, a man whose offer of marriage she has rejected, Fiona manages to escape the keep for a little while only to find herself lost and taken hostage by the MacFingals of Scarglas. With plans to ransom her, Ewan is annoyed when Fiona refuses to tell him who she is. And although Fiona puts up a fight in the beginning, she knows she is no match against the strength of the clan's laird and actually finds herself very attracted to him.<br /><br />Now Ewan MacFingal is amazed at the petite woman whose courage and beauty he's never encountered before. What astounds him more is the strong attraction she stirs in him. But having been betrayed by a woman years before, he knows he needs to fight it or risk losing his heart again.  As for Fiona, she senses the good in him despite the wall he has built around himself and in her heart, she knows that she has found her soul mate and is determined to win his heart.<br /><br />HIGHLAND WARRIOR is a fun novel featuring a likable hero and heroine and their extended family also provide entertainment. I liked how Fiona's grown up to be like her sister-in-law Gilly, strong and courageous and a no-nonsense type of woman. The way she managed to wiggle herself into the hearts of Ewan's clan, especially his seemingly lunatic and immature father was delightful. But having read seven other Highland books, I found the whole concept of their hesitation to express their true feelings a little bit worn and rather formulaic, hence my reason for giving this only 3 stars instead of 4. Overall, this is quite enjoyable if you're after a light and easy read.	2005-06-16
US	15230875	RPQC9QYX1HGEL	0380899361	364498216	Come Love a Stranger	Books	4	20	20	N	N	The ending needs rewriting	Ashton Wingate is a wealthy plantation owner in Mississippi. With his good looks and fortune, he had his choice of women but none was able to capture his heart like Lierin. He knew that he had met the woman of his dreams and so married her after a very brief courtship. On their honeymoon aboard one of Ashton's boats, the River Witch, with the ink on their marriage papers barely dry, they were attacked by river pirates and his wife of merely a few days was thrown overboard never to be seen again, leaving Ashton a widower.<br /><br />Fast forward to three years and we see Ashton in a carriage on his way home to Belle Chene. Deep in thoughts, he is startled by the sound of a woman's scream. Thrown off her horse, Ashton immediately jumps out to her rescue and takes the unconscious woman to the safety of his home. But when moonlight frames her face, he is shocked for right in his very arms is the face of the woman who has haunted his dreams for the last three years - his beloved wife Lierin. Unfortunately, the woman wakes up with no memory whatsoever of her past or identity. But in his heart, Ashton knows that she is Lierin. And when fate once again threatens to tear them apart when Malcolm Sinclair turns up and claim her as his abducted wife Lenore, Ashton vows to fight for her no matter what.<br /><br />What follows is a series of confusion and heartbreak for Ashton and Lierin. Although Ashton's heart tells him that the woman is his dear wife, mounting evidence seem to prove that the woman is indeed Lenore, Lierin's twin sister. For her, as much as it pains her to leave the kind and gentle stranger who has managed to convince her that she is Lierin and whom she has fallen in love with, she knows that she must uncover the truth about herself and whom she's really married to. Sadly, things seem to favor Malcolm's side of the story, especially when the man who claims to be her own father refutes Ashton's claims.<br /><br />COME LOVE A STRANGER is an exciting story filled with deceit and mystery. As usual, Kathleen Woodiwiss shows her flare for storytelling with her vivid descriptions of each scenes and portrayal of her characters. I absolutely loved Ashton! His tenderness towards Lierin, his patience and undying devotion is simply adorable. I enjoyed their playfulness toward each other and those scenes made me smile. And when Lierin was taken away from him again, I really felt his grief and couldn't wait for the truth to come out. But personally, if I were the heroine, I would have gone back to Ashton immediately after seeing him come out of the sea wearing nothing but that loincloth!<br /><br />What's good about this is the mystery. It is well-plotted and I actually found myself confused and unable to figure out whether the woman is actually Lierin or Lenore, adding further to the suspense. My biggest gripe though is the ending. I closed the book rather dissatisfied, feeling as if the author has reached her word count and therefore decided to rush the ending. Overall, I thought that this book was good.As usual, Kathleen Woodiwiss shows her flare for storytelling with her vivid descriptions of each scenes and portrayal of her characters. I absolutely loved Ashton! His tenderness towards Lierin, his patience and undying devotion is simply adorable. I enjoyed their playfulness toward each other and those scenes made me smile. And when Lierin was taken away from him again, I really felt his grief and couldn't wait for the truth to come out. But personally, if I were the heroine, I would have gone back to Ashton immediately after seeing him come out of the sea wearing nothing but that loincloth!    What's good about this is the mystery. It is well-plotted and I actually found myself confused and unable to figure out whether the woman is actually Lierin or Lenore, adding further to the suspense. My biggest gripe though is the ending. I closed the book rather dissatisfied, feeling as if the author has reached her word count and therefore decided to rush the ending. Overall, I thought that this book was good.	2005-06-15
US	15230875	R2A4FDAOCJNQZK	0505521962	127627515	A Time to Love Again	Books	5	9	10	N	N	A timeless love	In this poignant tale, see the lasting love that develops between a twentieth century woman and an eighth century warrior, a love that will endure time.<br /><br />India Baldwin is a twenty-six-year-old widow working as a secretary at a university. In need of updating her computer skills, her best friend suggests the aid of her boyfriend, Hank, a computer geek obsessed with the idea of time travel. When India goes into his office one Sunday morning to go through her late husband's research notes on medieval battles, she accidentally clicks on Hank's computer and before she knew it, she was sucked into space and found herself in the middle of a fierce battle between the Saxons and Franks in the year of 778. Wearing a tunic and trousers and a replica of a medieval royal medallion, the Franks mistake her for a boy and a royal messenger, thus offering her their protection.<br /><br />Under the command of Theuderic of Metz, a fierce warrior revered for his prowess and loyalty to King Charles, they travel back to Aachen. Initially, India thinks that Theu is nothing but a bloodthirsty warrior, but after seeing the way he treats his men and realizing his real concern for them, she feels a growing admiration that soon leads to an intense attraction. Theu on the other hand shortly realizes that India isn't a boy, but pretends not to know for both their sakes. But as the days go, he finds it harder to continue with the pretense and stop his growing feelings for India, the woman he has come to admire for her courage amidst the ugly realities of war.<br /><br />But soon after the truth is told, they are now faced with the fear of being torn apart, for they both know that Hank might succeed in bringing India back any moment and the love they found in each other's arms would be lost in time.<br /><br />A TIME TO LOVE AGAIN is a fun, tender and sometimes heartbreaking novel, with likable characters that would endear themselves to the readers. The author has done a good job using the Battle of Roncevaux as a backdrop for Theu and India's romance, and even if you were not familiar with the history, you wouldn't find yourself lost in the story. The story is well-developed and, although the dialogues lean toward the dramatic at times, they only add to the poignancy of the story. I found myself totally immersed in the story and laughed and cried over some scenes (especially toward the end after the battle).<br /><br />I do agree that the ending could have been so much better considering everything. Yes, it was sweet enough but also seemed a little rushed. But this book is still worth the read and I am now looking forward to reading the sequel A LOVE BEYOND TIME to see what happens with Danise.rop for Theu and India's romance, and even if you were not familiar with the history, you wouldn't find yourself lost in the story. The story is well-developed and, although the dialogues lean toward the dramatic at times, they only add to the poignancy of the story. I found myself totally immersed in the story and laughed and cried over some scenes (especially toward the end after the battle).     I do agree that the ending could have been so much better considering everything. Yes, it was sweet enough but also seemed a little rushed. But this book is still worth the read and I am now looking forward to reading the sequel A LOVE BEYOND TIME to see what happens with Danise.	2005-06-08
US	15230875	R6FZM1U652U9B	0380762587	921465515	You Belong to Me (Cardinia's Royal Family)	Books	3	7	8	N	N	Not as good as Once a Princess	If you have read ONCE A PRINCESS, then you're already familiar with most of the characters in this book, particularly the hero Vasili Petroff, that arrogant peacock that had women falling at his feet. Now we finally get to see his downfall.<br /><br />In the kingdom of Cardinia, no man is more sought after than Count Vasili, the devilishly handsome cousin of King Stefan. Women, married and single alike, all clamor to get into his bed. Thus his arrogance is without limits. But after years of sowing his oats and avoiding marriage, he is slapped with the news of a supposed betrothal arranged by his father. Bound by honor, he is given no choice but to fetch his bride from Ukraine, Baroness Alexandra Rubliov.<br /><br />Now Alexandra is also not pleased when her father breaks the news to her. Little does she know that the betrothal was fabricated by her father who has grown tired of waiting for Alexandra to get over her obsession with an Englishman she met seven years ago and whom she had since fancied herself in love with.<br /><br />As they say, great minds think alike for Vasili thinks to make Alex cry off by acting like a total cad and treating her callously, while Alex swears to act unlady-like hoping to turn him off completely and cause him to break the betrothal. And so when Vasili finally fetches her and they journey back to Cardinia, what ensues is a pretty hilarious battle of wills as each try their utmost to disgust one another in fervent hope of preventing the wedding.<br /><br />In this sequel, it was finally great to see Vasili meet his match in Alex, a vibrant, sharp-tongued and strong-willed twenty-five-year-old. I enjoyed her antics especially during mealtime, when she behaved like a total barbarian much to the disgust of everyone around her. Those moments provided some good laughs. I also enjoyed how she delivered the ultimate rejection by forthrightly advising Vasili the moment they met that she didn't want to marry him. I could just picture the arrogant peacock's expression!<br /><br />Unfortunately, some scenes dragged a bit and I just didn't find the romance as well-developed as that in its predecessor. I felt like Vasili was more enthralled with Alex's \\"chest\\" thus finding it hard to believe that he was suddenly in love with her.<br /><br />YOU BELONG TO ME is an easy enough read but lacks the spark of ONCE A PRINCESS.fortunately, some scenes dragged a bit and I just didn't find the romance as well-developed as that in its predecessor. I felt like Vasili was more enthralled with Alex's \\"chest\\" thus finding it hard to believe that he was suddenly in love with her.     YOU BELONG TO ME is an easy enough read but lacks the spark of ONCE A PRINCESS.	2005-06-07
US	15230875	R3QOYQGDQYR220	0505523752	574473600	Dark Gold (The Carpathians (Dark) Series, Book 3)	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Nothing like the first two - 3.5 stars	He is one of the oldest and most powerful Carpathian, a healer in his own rights, and a hunter so feared by vampires. He is also referred to as the `golden one' for he is fair in coloring unlike the usual dark features possessed by male Carpathians. For years he has lived in San Francisco, ridding America of those abominable creatures, many of whom he once called his friends. But Aidan Savage feels the desperation that plagues many of his kind. He knows that he would soon need to make a choice between greeting the dawn or succumbing to the ultimate evil - that of turning into the very breed that he has spent years ridding the world of.<br /><br />She is a very talented graphic designer desperately vying for a job with Thomas Ivan's highly successful computer games company, a job that would mean a better life for herself and her little brother Joshua, who she's been taking care of ever since they were orphaned. Apart from her usual talent in designing is another that is powerful enough to attract the attention of a vampire who means to make her his partner for Alexandria Houton is a true psychic. So on the night of her meeting with Thomas, little does she know it would be her last night as a human being. Knowing she would sacrifice her life to protect her brother, the vampire threatens to kill Joshua unless she comes to him willingly.<br /><br />After blood was brutally exchanged between the vampire and Alex, with dawn soon to come, he takes her and Joshua to a cave and chains her to the wall where Alex starts to feel the torment of the contaminated blood in her. With her rapid physical changes, all she could do is hope for a miracle escape, which comes shortly after nightfall as Aidan has discovered the vampire's lair. After the vampire was killed, Aidan sees her clutching Joshua and he assumes that she is a crazed vampiress about to murder a child. Thinking to destroy her, he bites her neck and is shocked as color burst upon him and he knows instantly that the dying woman in his arms is no other than the lifemate he has endured centuries of loneliness and bleak existence for.<br /><br />In order to save her, Aidan has to give Alex more blood which would also get rid of the contaminated blood that the vampire gave her. But as Alex became Carpathian, Aidan faces a battle of wills for she refuses to trust him and accept what she has become. And despite the bond between them, Aidan knows that he must win Alexandria's trust and love before they could truly find happiness together.<br /><br />DARK GOLD is the third book in the Carpathian Series and somewhat different from the first two books (DARK PRINCE & DARK DESIRE) in that the violence is less graphic and the sex scenes more toned down. It also made more attempt at humor. I enjoyed Aidan's playfulness especially when Alex goes out on a date with Thomas Ivan. I loved how he nearly drove Thomas insane making the poor man think he was hallucinating. And I simply adored Aidan's patience with Alex, considering she starts off as rather selfish and annoying. Another thing I liked is the fact that Aidan had humans living with him who are aware of his true identity and love him for what he is.<br /><br />Although I didn't think this as good as the first two, I still enjoyed it if mainly for the humor and of course the hero. Now I can't wait to start on Gregori's story (DARK MAGIC).arms is no other than the lifemate he has endured centuries of loneliness and bleak existence for.     In order to save her, Aidan has to give Alex more blood which would also get rid of the contaminated blood that the vampire gave her. But as Alex became Carpathian, Aidan faces a battle of wills for she refuses to trust him and accept what she has become. And despite the bond between them, Aidan knows that he must win Alexandria's trust and love before they could truly find happiness together.    DARK GOLD is the third book in the Carpathian Series and somewhat different from the first two books (DARK PRINCE & DARK DESIRE) in that the violence is less graphic and the sex scenes more toned down. It also made more attempt at humor. I enjoyed Aidan's playfulness especially when Alex goes out on a date with Thomas Ivan. I loved how he nearly drove Thomas insane making the poor man think he was hallucinating. And I simply adored Aidan's patience with Alex, considering she starts off as rather selfish and annoying. Another thing I liked is the fact that Aidan had humans living with him who are aware of his true identity and love him for what he is.      Although I didn't think this as good as the first two, I still enjoyed it if mainly for the humor and of course the hero. Now I can't wait to start on Gregori's story (DARK MAGIC).	2005-06-06
US	15230875	R3DR4VLN9QZXU0	0743457269	386088520	A Knight in Shining Armor	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Imaginative, heartwarming and simply delightful	In the opening scene of the book, the year is 1564 and we see the Earl of Thornwyck concentrating on a letter to his mother hoping to clear his name of the accusation of treason. Out of the blue, he hears a woman weeping and instantly feels her grief. As hard as he tried, he is unable to block the voice out...<br /><br />In the year of 1988, Dougless Montgomery takes a trip to England with her boyfriend Robert under the illusion that she would get the marriage proposal that she's been waiting for. To her dismay, Robert takes his spoilt daughter Gloria with them who contrived to make her holiday a living hell. When after a disagreement Gloria lies to her dad, Dougless finds herself abandoned at Ashburton with no means to get back to their hotel. Shocked and outraged, she runs into the church and cries her heart out at the tomb of Nicholas Stafford, the last Earl of Thornwyck. Magically, her cries reach far beyond time and before she knows it, the knight in shining armor that she wished for appears right in front of her.<br /><br />What ensues is a roller coaster ride for both. Dougless initially thinks that Nicholas is a madman. Though frantic and fearful of the stranger's state of mind, her compassionate nature takes over and she decides to oblige his \\"Elizabethan-era fantasies\\" in exchange for some much-needed money so she could get back to America. But what starts off as a simple gesture of assisting him, soon becomes more serious when Dougless realizes that Nicholas is indeed telling the truth, and she soon finds herself trying to uncover the reason why he's been transported. Together, they work to unravel the identity of the person who betrayed Nicholas in 1564, hoping to prevent his beheading and ultimately change the way history has depicted his character with such mockery. But as their adventure continues, both must fight the growing feelings they have for each other. For Nicholas, it is the fear of leaving her in such grief when he returns to his era, while for Dougless, it is the misconception of unrequited love.<br /><br />A KNIGHT IN SHINING ARMOR is a delightful tale full of adventure, wit and excitement, with characters that are well-rounded and fully realized. I adored Nicholas' enthusiasm about modern technology and Dougless' soft-heartedness is very endearing. And even though she comes across as a pushover at the beginning, it is this vulnerability that endeared her to me, for here is a woman who aimed to please everyone, especially her too-perfect family, all her life and then she finally meets this arrogant aristocrat who appreciates her for what she is and doesn't find her wanting. And the love that develops between them is so sweet that I found myself crying in some part, half-dreading to get to the part when they would be separated.<br /><br />This book is so worth the read. I've read a few medieval romances and I must say that this is one of the best. Sure, the plot is nothing unique - knight in shining armor rescues damsel in distress, but what makes this an extraordinary novel is the vibrant characters, well-detailed descriptions and just the sheer poignancy of the story that is guaranteed to enthrall.<br /><br />This is my first book by Jude Deveraux and this definitely won't be the last. I plan on reading the other Montgomery novels from the beginning.<br /><br />If you're after another great time-travel romance, I would also recommend Flora Speer's A TIME TO LOVE AGAIN. Now that's a real tear-jerker.is the misconception of unrequited love.    A KNIGHT IN SHINING ARMOR is a delightful tale full of adventure, wit and excitement, with characters that are well-rounded and fully realized. I adored Nicholas' enthusiasm about modern technology and Dougless' soft-heartedness is very endearing. And even though she comes across as a pushover at the beginning, it is this vulnerability that endeared her to me, for here is a woman who aimed to please everyone, especially her too-perfect family, all her life and then she finally meets this arrogant aristocrat who appreciates her for what she is and doesn't find her wanting. And the love that develops between them is so sweet that I found myself crying in some part, half-dreading to get to the part when they would be separated.    This book is so worth the read. I've read a few medieval romances and I must say that this is one of the best. Sure, the plot is nothing unique - knight in shining armor rescues damsel in distress, but what makes this an extraordinary novel is the vibrant characters, well-detailed descriptions and just the sheer poignancy of the story that is guaranteed to enthrall.     This is my first book by Jude Deveraux and this definitely won't be the last. I plan on reading the other Montgomery novels from the beginning.    If you're after another great time-travel romance, I would also recommend Flora Speer's A TIME TO LOVE AGAIN. Now that's a real tear-jerker.	2005-06-01
US	15230875	R2677M76CB48C4	0821774263	517322283	Highland Angel (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	2	8	11	N	N	Not the Payton Murray I expected!	If you have read the other Highland Series featuring the Murray daughters, you would already be familiar with Sir Payton Murray, supposedly the bonniest lad in the whole of Scotland. In Highland Angel, we finally get to see this revered knight meet his downfall in the form of a damsel in distress.<br /><br />On his way to a rendezvous, Kirstie MacIye, who claims her husband just tried to murder her, approaches Payton. He listens to her story and was aghast to find out her husband's evil doings especially of finding out the abominable things he does to children. As a man of honor, Payton cannot help but offer himself as Kirstie and the abused children's champion. So he takes her and the children home and offers them his protection.<br /><br />As to be expected, both feel a strong attraction for each other. For Payton, it is the first time in his life that he had to work hard in seducing a woman. For Kirstie, she is frightened of her strong feelings for Payton partly due to her marriage vows and Payton's longstanding reputation for having bedded half the women in Scotland. She worries that he sees her as nothing but just another addition to his ever-growing collection of women.<br /><br />HIGHLAND ANGEL, while brimming with sensuous love scenes, lacks the excitement that I enjoyed from other Highland books by Hannah Howell particularly the stories of Payton's kinswomen - Elspeth (HIGHLAND VOW), Avery (HIGHLAND KNIGHT) and Gillyanne (HIGHLAND BRIDE). Since reading Highland Vow, I've wanted to read Payton's story but this book unfortunately didn't live up to my expectations. Payton seemed rather jaded in this story compared to how he's been portrayed in the previous books. And Kirstie, although likable enough, just didn't endear herself to me. I was expecting some really funny verbal spats between them but they were sadly lacking. I found the children funnier than the main characters.<br /><br />It's quite disappointing because the first few pages seemed promising only to go downhill and then kind of pick up on the last third. I'm giving this 2.5 stars (extra half star for Gilly and Connor's appearance).f pick up on the last third. I'm giving this 2.5 stars (extra half star for Gilly and Connor's appearance).	2005-05-23
US	15230875	R3JA4D6VJJCGGR	0380756250	143694847	Once a Princess (Cardinia's Royal Family)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A nice fairy tale	Two decades ago in a small country in Eastern Europe, a beautiful princess was born and christened Tatiana Janacek. But she was born amidst chaos for there was a blood feud between her royal family, the Janaceks, and another powerful clan, the Stamboloffs. After several of her family members have been murdered, and with her father, the then King of Cardinia, fearing for his own life, Tatiana was immediately betrothed to the son of Sandor Barany, who became king after the rest of Tatiana's family were murdered. As the only remaining Janacek, King Sandor sent Tatiana to America with a baroness as her only companion. But tragedy seems to follow Tatiana wherever she goes for shortly after reaching America, the baroness died from illness leaving Tatiana at the hands of an elderly couple, with whom she grow up in near poverty and completely unaware of her regal birthright.<br /><br />Fast forward to 1835 and King Sandor decides to abdicate the throne so his son Stefan could succeed. Now Stefan isn't too happy especially with the news that along with the throne comes his imminent wedding to the exiled princess. But worried for his father's fading health, he sails to America, albeit reluctantly, to bring his queen back home. But were he and his three companions in for a shock! For not only are they sent on a wild goose chase trying to find the princess, but when they finally do, it is to discover that she is not the pampered beauty they expected her to be but a feisty tavern wench who is completely ignorant of the circumstances of her birth. What astounds Stefan more is his instant attraction to Tatiana, who goes by the name of Tanya Dobbs. And for a moment, he is actually pleased that Tanya isn't the great beauty everyone claimed she would be, for he had long ago given up on beautiful women after being left scarred, both physically and emotionally, while trying to save his younger brother from being attacked by wolves. But that is another shock for him because Tanya's real appearance is soon unveiled. And this adds to the complication for he knows that he can't afford to lose his heart to the beautiful woman who he believes is repulsed by his appearance.<br /><br />ONCE A PRINCESS is a tale about a girl deprived of a regal upbringing through tragedy, and a reluctant king who must give her back what is rightfully hers. Tanya/Tatiana is a heroine who has suffered all her life from the terrible beatings of a man she grew up thinking was her father, yet it is also this tragedy that has moulded her into the courageous and feisty woman that she has become. A woman whose only ambition is to one day have full ownership of the tavern she grew up in and live an independent life without the ties of marriage. Stefan, on the other hand, is a man who must overcome his insecurities and believe that there is a woman who will love him \\"scars and all\\".<br /><br />This is a thoroughly enjoyable book. Tanya's attempts to escape Stefan had me laughing and cheering. I was held in suspense waiting to see how far she could make it just so she could drive Stefan and his friends demented. Stefan's friends, Vasili, Serge and Lazar also add to the fun, and then include a jealous mistress and a would-be assassin and you know you're in for an adventure.<br /><br />A delightful story with a nice ending, you will love how both characters find true love despite their initial qualms and mistrust in each other's intentions.nce is soon unveiled. And this adds to the complication for he knows that he can't afford to lose his heart to the beautiful woman who he believes is repulsed by his appearance.    ONCE A PRINCESS is a tale about a girl deprived of a regal upbringing through tragedy, and a reluctant king who must give her back what is rightfully hers. Tanya/Tatiana is a heroine who has suffered all her life from the terrible beatings of a man she grew up thinking was her father, yet it is also this tragedy that has moulded her into the courageous and feisty woman that she has become. A woman whose only ambition is to one day have full ownership of the tavern she grew up in and live an independent life without the ties of marriage. Stefan, on the other hand, is a man who must overcome his insecurities and believe that there is a woman who will love him \\"scars and all\\".    This is a thoroughly enjoyable book. Tanya's attempts to escape Stefan had me laughing and cheering. I was held in suspense waiting to see how far she could make it just so she could drive Stefan and his friends demented. Stefan's friends, Vasili, Serge and Lazar also add to the fun, and then include a jealous mistress and a would-be assassin and you know you're in for an adventure.    A delightful story with a nice ending, you will love how both characters find true love despite their initial qualms and mistrust in each other's intentions.	2005-05-16
US	15230875	R1J8ULDUK4PXV8	0380776162	388209748	Lord of Scoundrels	Books	5	4	7	N	N	Absolutely hilarious!	Jessica Trent is a twenty-seven-year-old spinster by choice. Fiercely independent and stubborn, she possesses both beauty and brains. When she hears that her brother has been carousing in Paris with the notorious Marquess of Dain, she packs her bags and goes to Paris intent on bringing her nincompoop brother back to London. One thing she didn't expect though is to fall madly in lust with the Marquess. As soon as she lays eyes on him, she is instantly drawn to his sexual magnetism and grows restless at the mere thought of him.<br /><br />Sebastian Leslie Guy de Ath Ballister is known all over as Lord Beelzebub, a notorious rake who lives a dissolute life, whose history of womanizing, gambling and drinking would have put the Romans to shame. As the Lord of Scoundrels, Dain keeps to his vow of staying away from well-bred ladies and away from the haute ton after being made a fool of by a gently bred woman. But when he meets Jessica, he sees perfection and for the first time in years, he finds himself drawn to the very kind of woman he vowed to stay away from. Tried as he might, he just cannot keep his distance from the stubborn woman who he knows could make his life hell.<br /><br />What follows is a totally hilarious battle of wit between these two. There are so many `laugh out loud' scenes, I thoroughly enjoyed reading this book. Their first meeting at the antic shop was so funny; the way she feigned ignorance over the lewd nature of the clock, making him think that she's never seen such a thing before was so delightful. It took me a while to get over it because I couldn't stop laughing. And the sexual tension between Dain and Jess especially at the cafe is one of the best! What makes it so good is the fact that there is nothing graphic about the whole scene, but the atmosphere was so well depicted that the tension between them is almost tangible.<br /><br />LORD OF SCOUNDRELS is a well-written novel filled with humor that is sure to have you laughing right from the start. Jessica is such a tough, smart and endearing heroine and just perfect for Sebastian. I loved the way Jessica help him overcome his insecurities with his childhood and physical looks. How she sees the beauty in him that he is so unaware of adds to her charm. And with such well-matched leads, this is one book that will remain in my \\"books to keep and re-read\\".tough, smart and endearing heroine and just perfect for Sebastian. I loved the way Jessica help him overcome his insecurities with his childhood and physical looks. How she sees the beauty in him that he is so unaware of adds to her charm. And with such well-matched leads, this is one book that will remain in my \\"books to keep and re-read\\".	2005-05-14
US	15230875	RTKZO0GHWYKF6	0843955287	21482417	Dark Prince (The Carpathians (Dark) Series, Book 1)	Books	5	4	9	N	N	Spellbinding!	They are immortals. Born with incredible strength and amazing psychic powers. They look like humans, but they are blood-drinkers, living in darkness and afraid of the sun. They are shape-shifters, easily taking on the form of wolves or any animals and can also dissolve into a mist or fog. But the Carpathians are a dying breed; no female has been born in centuries. Most males are also succumbing to the curse: they are slowly losing their emotions and have been living in darkness, losing their ability to see in color. Some have already killed themselves or worse, turned vampire, therefore killing humans savagely instead of just taking in a \\"little feed\\" and erasing the memory of their victims. Time is running out for them. The only cure is to find their life mate, the other half who can make them whole.<br /><br />At the center is their prince, Mikhail Dubrinsky, the oldest of them all. On edge of despair, he finally decides to end his life and the bleak existence he has endured for centuries. But while contemplating his last hours, a voice reaches out to him asking him if ending his life is the answer to his loneliness. He was rattled, for no human has ever made a psychic connection with him before, especially not a woman. And Mikhail knows instantly - she is their hope for the future.<br /><br />Raven Whitney is a powerful psychic. Born with the powerful ability to read minds and see through people, she has suffered the consequences of this gift, living an isolated life. Others see her as a freak of nature. After helping the police in tracking four serial killers, she goes to Romania to enjoy the isolation and serenity of the Carpathian Mountains. When she hears Mikhail's desperation, her compassionate nature takes over and she tries to comfort him, not knowing that it would change her life forever.<br /><br />When Mikhail realizes that Raven possesses a very powerful psychic gift, he is intrigued and shape shifts into an owl in order to see her. He lands in the balcony at the inn she's staying at and was mesmerized by her beauty and allure. He is shocked to find himself reacting to her, for such is an emotion he hasn't felt in centuries. But most of all, he sees the vividness of her blue eyes and he knows right then and there that she is his life mate, his savior. For the first time in centuries, he is happy and overjoyed.<br /><br />Now despite recognizing the danger in him, Raven is drawn to Mikhail and finds herself unable to pull away. And when she finally realizes who he really is, it is too late for the Carpathian mating ritual has been completed and they are now bonded together. And while she struggles to face her new world, they must face danger together for a group of vampire hunters are determined to wipe out their race.<br /><br />DARK PRINCE is a dark, captivating novel that had me glued from the very first page. The premise of the story is so fascinating; I found myself so involved in the Carpathian world, their lives, powers and sufferings. It was great reading how protective the males are over the female Carpathians and the depth of love that they are capable of giving. Sure, Mikhail is arrogant to a fault but Raven is the perfect antidote to his domineering attitude.<br /><br />One of my favorite parts is toward the end when Raven finally uses her shape shifting ability. I loved how carefree she was and how eager to explore her newfound power. And the way Mikhail and his friends all walled her in trying to protect her was so delightful that I didn't want the book to end.<br /><br />Despite my very slight annoyance with Mikhail's constant referral to Raven as \\"little one\\", I absolutely loved this book and look forward to reading the others in the series.aying at and was mesmerized by her beauty and allure. He is shocked to find himself reacting to her, for such is an emotion he hasn't felt in centuries. But most of all, he sees the vividness of her blue eyes and he knows right then and there that she is his life mate, his savior. For the first time in centuries, he is happy and overjoyed.     Now despite recognizing the danger in him, Raven is drawn to Mikhail and finds herself unable to pull away. And when she finally realizes who he really is, it is too late for the Carpathian mating ritual has been completed and they are now bonded together. And while she struggles to face her new world, they must face danger together for a group of vampire hunters are determined to wipe out their race.     DARK PRINCE is a dark, captivating novel that had me glued from the very first page. The premise of the story is so fascinating; I found myself so involved in the Carpathian world, their lives, powers and sufferings. It was great reading how protective the males are over the female Carpathians and the depth of love that they are capable of giving. Sure, Mikhail is arrogant to a fault but Raven is the perfect antidote to his domineering attitude.    One of my favorite parts is toward the end when Raven finally uses her shape shifting ability. I loved how carefree she was and how eager to explore her newfound power. And the way Mikhail and his friends all walled her in trying to protect her was so delightful that I didn't want the book to end.    Despite my very slight annoyance with Mikhail's constant referral to Raven as \\"little one\\", I absolutely loved this book and look forward to reading the others in the series.	2005-05-07
US	15230875	R3RCTOPFAN9MH9	050552354X	489560477	Dark Desire (The Carpathians (Dark) Series, Book 2)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A great follow up to Dark Prince	In this second book in the Dark Series, we see what happened twenty-five years after the first human female has been turned into Carpathian. Although you wouldn't be lost in the plot if you haven't read DARK PRINCE, I think reading it first would provide a richer understanding of the Carpathian world.<br /><br />Betrayed by his own kind, Jacques Dubrinsky suffers extreme torture in the hands of fanatical vampire hunters who are out to destroy them. Maddened by the pain and sufferings they inflicted on him, and thinking that his friends and family have deliberately abandoned him, Jacques is now a shadow of his former self, with hardly any memory of the past. His only companion in the darkness is a woman who shared his mind.<br /><br />Shea O'Halloran is a brilliant doctor with a psychic gift. When she inadvertently connects with Jacques, she is since haunted by his image. And when she once again finds herself running away from those fanatics who accuse her of being a vampire, she finds herself in the Carpathian Mountains unaware that her subconscious has responded to Jacques' call. When she finally finds him, the healer and savior in her feels compelled to nurse him back to recovery.<br /><br />Because Shea thought that Jacques shares her rare blood disorder, unaware that there is more to their connection, she never gave much thought about how he managed to survive all these years. But as Jacques slowly regains his power, the beast in him grows stronger and more dangerous. And while he still cannot piece the puzzle of his past together, he is certain of one thing - the need to protect his lifemate who is the lightness to his darkness.<br /><br />DARK DESIRE is a great follow up to the first book. It is as captivating and sensual although the violence is a little bit more graphic. I found that this is also more humorous than the first one and the witty exchanges between Mikhail and Gregory are funny. I laughed so much on the part when Mikhail tells Gregori that Shea obviously had brains after telling Gregori that she thinks he looks like an ax murderer. Another part is when Gregori says Mikhail looks as reassuring as a Bengal tiger, to which Mikhail answers \\"Oh, and you look like a bunny rabbit\\".<br /><br />Although there are some scenes that lagged a bit, this is a well-written story and the reference to Aidan and Gregori sets up the pace for the next two books. I enjoyed reading this and I am now truly hooked and can't wait to start the next book, which is DARK GOLD.ing Gregori that she thinks he looks like an ax murderer. Another part is when Gregori says Mikhail looks as reassuring as a Bengal tiger, to which Mikhail answers \\"Oh, and you look like a bunny rabbit\\".    Although there are some scenes that lagged a bit, this is a well-written story and the reference to Aidan and Gregori sets up the pace for the next two books. I enjoyed reading this and I am now truly hooked and can't wait to start the next book, which is DARK GOLD.	2005-05-07
US	15230875	R34CDGT7E2C65Z	0380761327	303727550	Flowers from the Storm	Books	5	17	20	N	N	Powerful, compelling... just great!	His name is Christian Richard Nicholas Francis Langland, or simply, The Duke of Jervaulx. To the ton, he is a notorious rake with a list of women as long as his full name. Lacking moral restraint, he is hedonistic, arrogant and dissipated. But the duke is also brilliant - a mathematical genius that can solve the most complex equations.<br /><br />In the glamorous and materialistic world of the English society, she is a nobody. A Quaker who wouldn't get a single glance from the wealthy and haughty. But Archimedia \\"Maddy\\" Timms couldn't care less for, as a Quaker, she has been brought up with the belief of living a simple and uncomplicated life devoted to keeping herself pure and unaffected by worldliness. But for all her strength and strong belief, she finds herself fascinated by the dissolute duke. So the day after meeting him for the first time, she found herself weeping upon hearing the news that the duke was killed in a duel.<br /><br />Unbeknownst to most, the duke actually suffered a stroke and has been sent by his family to an asylum thinking that he has gone insane. So it was to Maddy's shock when, after getting a job at Blythedale Hall, she comes face to face with Christian. And Maddy knew straightaway that despite what everyone says, the duke is not mad but maddened. Therefore she decides to be his own personal nurse and see to his recovery barely knowing she would be in for a roller coaster ride.<br /><br />FLOWERS FROM THE STORM is a compelling and very moving story with complex characters that exude such powerful emotions that one cannot help but be moved by the story as it unfolds. The intricateness of the story is so captivating and provides us with the biggest irony of all, for on one hand, you have Christian who is extremely sensitive about the pronunciation of his title that when caught with his pants down by the man he was cuckolding, he was more concerned about the mispronunciation of his name, that for him to lose the ability to speak properly is almost unkind in some ways. Then you have Maddy, a strict adherer of her society's belief in Plain Dress and Plain Speech, who falls in love with the very person she calls indecent, the one she thought was the devil incarnate himself. But I believe that what really makes this story so compelling is the emotional battles that the hero and heroine go through. You can truly feel their anguish and frustrations and I found myself crying just by the mere description of their feelings, especially Maddy's confusion. Some scenes are so heart-wrenching that I had to put the book down to get some tissues. My favorite cry-your-eyes-out part is when Maddy has been summoned by her congregation to condemn her actions. When she reads her letter of apology and refers to their relationship as sinful, the way Christian became so livid at hearing her mention the word `fornication' was utterly provoking. And when he continues to say it was love for her, I was gone.<br /><br />If I may express a couple of quibbles about this book, it is that the beginning was a little slow that it took me a while to warm to and I found the whole mathematical terminologies and equations a little too much. Yet then again it does show the depth of research that the author has done, and in some ways added to Christian's brilliance.<br /><br />Now, do I consider this one of the greatest love stories ever written? Truthfully, I am not certain of that. But if you ask me if I thought this book was great, then I would answer yes in a heartbeat. This has got to be one of the most provocative and captivating novel I have read so far. And after reading this book, this is how I interpreted the title: \\"Flowers\\" stands for the triumph that Christian and Maddy are finally blessed with long after the agony that they endured from the \\"Storms\\" which are their tribulations. And at the end of it all, that triumph is the love that they found in each other's arms.e ways. Then you have Maddy, a strict adherer of her society's belief in Plain Dress and Plain Speech, who falls in love with the very person she calls indecent, the one she thought was the devil incarnate himself. But I believe that what really makes this story so compelling is the emotional battles that the hero and heroine go through. You can truly feel their anguish and frustrations and I found myself crying just by the mere description of their feelings, especially Maddy's confusion. Some scenes are so heart-wrenching that I had to put the book down to get some tissues. My favorite cry-your-eyes-out part is when Maddy has been summoned by her congregation to condemn her actions. When she reads her letter of apology and refers to their relationship as sinful, the way Christian became so livid at hearing her mention the word `fornication' was utterly provoking. And when he continues to say it was love for her, I was gone.     If I may express a couple of quibbles about this book, it is that the beginning was a little slow that it took me a while to warm to and I found the whole mathematical terminologies and equations a little too much. Yet then again it does show the depth of research that the author has done, and in some ways added to Christian's brilliance.     Now, do I consider this one of the greatest love stories ever written? Truthfully, I am not certain of that. But if you ask me if I thought this book was great, then I would answer yes in a heartbeat. This has got to be one of the most provocative and captivating novel I have read so far. And after reading this book, this is how I interpreted the title: \\"Flowers\\" stands for the triumph that Christian and Maddy are finally blessed with long after the agony that they endured from the \\"Storms\\" which are their tribulations. And at the end of it all, that triumph is the love that they found in each other's arms.	2005-05-06
US	15230875	R3BXJFYYN3VN7U	0380802325	85428738	Suddenly You	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Highly sensual	She is past her prime, a resigned spinster who has never experienced a man's touch. She has lived a rather uneventful life, having spent the last precious years of her youth caring for her sick parents. So a week before her thirtieth birthday, celebrated novelist Amanda Briars decided to give herself a nice present: a night with a man. So she goes to the notorious Madam Bradshaw and hires a prostitute. On the night of her birthday, she ushers a man into her home thinking he was the prostitute sent by the madam. Unbeknownst to her, Jack is good friends with Madam Bradshaw and decides to play matchmaker upon learning of his desire to meet Amanda.<br /><br />Jack Devlin is a ruthless publisher with a painful past. When he acquires Amanda's very first novel, he pays her a visit in order to talk business with her.  When he knocks on her door, he is surprised at the welcome he receives from her. But after realizing that she has mistaken him for the man she paid for, he couldn't help but play along having felt an instant attraction to her. But at the last minute, he stops; uncertain of the strong feelings he suddenly has for her and not wanting to deceive her.<br /><br />A week later, Amanda attends a party and was aghast, for there in front of her stands Jack, the very man who has haunted her dreams for the past week. When she learns that he is the unscrupulous John T. Devlin, the publisher that she has avoided meeting, she is outraged and even more so when Jack blackmails her into agreeing to publish her first novel. Worried that her reputation would be in tatters, she reluctantly agrees and they start discussing business the very next day.<br /><br />Amanda is unsettled by Jack's sexual magnetism, while Jack finds himself incapable of controlling his reaction to her, for she is a refreshing change from the other women he had ever known. Soon, they embark on an affair and Amanda is both shocked and amused by her lack of shame around him, for her actions were something she once only dared to write about in her novels. And the more time they spent together, the more they become perturbed by the strong feelings that develop between them.<br /><br />In this sensual Victorian novel, we see how two independent people find passion and love by overcoming their vulnerabilities and learning to be accepting of themselves. Although Amanda has carved a respectable life without sacrificing her independence and bowing to the dictates of convention, she is plagued by insecurities over her plainness and finds it hard to accept that a man like Jack could possibly want her. As for Jack, he must overcome the stigma of his youth and illegitimacy before he can truly give in to his feelings for Amanda.<br /><br />SUDDENLY YOU is an exciting novel brimming over with sensuality and wit. It features steamy love scenes without being vulgar. A novel that is guaranteed to hook you from the very first page, it is a refreshing change from your usual historical featuring beautiful ing&eacute;nues and aristocratic rogues. I liked how Amanda is straightforward and refuses to conform to society and Jack's tenderness towards her is something to be cherished.<br /><br />I do wish that more emphasis were given to the emotions and depth of feelings between the characters. I suppose that having read DREAMING OF YOU and THEN CAME YOU, I was expecting something more. Nevertheless, I enjoyed this novel so don't let this minor quibble stop you from reading this.rite about in her novels. And the more time they spent together, the more they become perturbed by the strong feelings that develop between them.    In this sensual Victorian novel, we see how two independent people find passion and love by overcoming their vulnerabilities and learning to be accepting of themselves. Although Amanda has carved a respectable life without sacrificing her independence and bowing to the dictates of convention, she is plagued by insecurities over her plainness and finds it hard to accept that a man like Jack could possibly want her. As for Jack, he must overcome the stigma of his youth and illegitimacy before he can truly give in to his feelings for Amanda.    SUDDENLY YOU is an exciting novel brimming over with sensuality and wit. It features steamy love scenes without being vulgar. A novel that is guaranteed to hook you from the very first page, it is a refreshing change from your usual historical featuring beautiful ingnues and aristocratic rogues. I liked how Amanda is straightforward and refuses to conform to society and Jack's tenderness towards her is something to be cherished.     I do wish that more emphasis were given to the emotions and depth of feelings between the characters. I suppose that having read DREAMING OF YOU and THEN CAME YOU, I was expecting something more. Nevertheless, I enjoyed this novel so don't let this minor quibble stop you from reading this.	2005-04-30
US	15230875	RJ463REEMZOAC	0821766147	940412711	Highland Vow (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	4	31	35	N	N	First book in the Murray daughters trilogy	In this first installment in Hannah Howell's second Highland series, meet Elspeth Murray, the beloved daughter of Balfour and Maldie Murray from HIGHLAND DESTINY.<br /><br />On her ninth birthday, she stumbles upon a wounded lad on the run from a powerful clan. Instead of being afraid, Elspeth Murray was mesmerized by the beauty of the seventeen-year-old Cormac Armstrong. Having inherited her mother's gift of healing, she tended to him and convinced her family to take him in until he was recovered. And as that day came and Cormac was giving his thanks to the Laird and Lady of Donncoill, the tiny, dirty hand of Elspeth was thrust forward to him offering to be kissed. Little did he know that the brief kiss that he had bestowed on little Elspeth's hand would forever leave a mark on her.<br /><br />When a rejected suitor abducted nineteen-year-old Elspeth, she never expected that the man she has dreamt of for the last ten years would rescue her. Face to face with Cormac who has haunted her maidenly dreams, she knew that fate brought them together for a purpose: for her to rescue him from the clutches of Isabel, the woman he had vowed to love and had waited for since he was sixteen, the woman who had so blinded Cormac that he's the only one in Scotland who thinks her a victim of her family's greed.<br /><br />When Cormac saw Elspeth for the first time since he left Donncoill, he was astonished to find that his tiny, begrimed savior is now a disarmingly beautiful woman. And for the first time in ten years, he could not bring a clear image of Isabel in his mind and found himself in a state of confusion over the vow he made to Isabel as a boy, a vow that he swore to keep to prove to the world that not all Armstrong's were like his lying, thieving parents, and a vow that his heart is telling him to break so he could be with Elspeth.<br /><br />HIGHLAND VOW is the first in the trilogy featuring the daughters of the Murray brothers (HIGHLAND DESTINY, HIGHLAND HONOR and HIGHLAND PROMISE). It is quite an enjoyable read with likable characters. Elspeth, like her mother Maldie from Highland Destiny is sharp-tongued and spirited with a heart of gold. She will pick up any stray creatures she stumbles upon and tend to them until they are well. Cormac is a man of such honor that you cannot help but sympathize with his predicament and sometimes even want to smack him for being such a fool. Despite being good-looking, he lacks the arrogance that typifies the alpha-male regularly featured in historical romances.<br /><br />I did find the book seemed to wander aimlessly at some parts and couldn't wait for the more interesting scenes. But I loved the way Elspeth declared her feelings for Cormac just before she went back to Donncoill. The way she hurled the words at him, calling him a fool for his blindness to Isabel's faults was perfectly worded.<br /><br />If you have read and enjoyed the first Highland Series, you will still find the new Highland Trilogy enjoyable. The two books after these are HIGHLAND KNIGHT featuring Avery and HIGHLAND BRIDE with Gillyanne.d HIGHLAND PROMISE). It is quite an enjoyable read with likable characters. Elspeth, like her mother Maldie from Highland Destiny is sharp-tongued and spirited with a heart of gold. She will pick up any stray creatures she stumbles upon and tend to them until they are well. Cormac is a man of such honor that you cannot help but sympathize with his predicament and sometimes even want to smack him for being such a fool. Despite being good-looking, he lacks the arrogance that typifies the alpha-male regularly featured in historical romances.  <br /> <br />I did find the book seemed to wander aimlessly at some parts and couldn't wait for the more interesting scenes. But I loved the way Elspeth declared her feelings for Cormac just before she went back to Donncoill. The way she hurled the words at him, calling him a fool for his blindness to Isabel's faults was perfectly worded.  <br /> <br />If you have read and enjoyed the first Highland Series, you will still find the new Highland Trilogy enjoyable. The two books after these are HIGHLAND KNIGHT featuring Avery and HIGHLAND BRIDE with Gillyanne.	2005-04-29
US	15230875	R2V7VOCBWDD733	0821759213	519500185	Highland Destiny (Highland Trilogy, Bk 1)	Books	4	27	28	N	N	A good introduction to the family (Murray Brothers #1)	The year is 1430 and we are introduced to the Murray clan, headed by Balfour Murray, the laird of Donncoill. After hearing the news that the family enemy, Sir William Beaton, captured his younger brother Eric, he sets out to Dubhlinn intent on getting Eric back. But when they are met by defeat, they head home planning another attack when a woman steps out on the road. When she offers to tend to his brother Nigel's wounds, he finds that she had a real gift of healing and offered his hospitality in return for nursing his brother back to recovery.<br /><br />Maldie Kirkcaldy knows that Balfour's kindness would change had he known of her true identity. However, seeing that they are both intent on exacting vengeance from Beaton, and knowing that she could use some shelter and food while planning her revenge, she journeys back to Donncoill with the Murrays, even though she is aware that Balfour's interest in her goes beyond her healing skills for deep down, she is also aware of her shared attraction with the laird and it doesn't take long before she finds herself disgusted by her weakness to his seduction.<br /><br />Soon the passion they share lead to deeper feelings for each other. But in spite of their growing love, both are tormented by their secrets and doubts. Balfour knows that Maldie isn't exactly who she claims to be and he is intent on knowing the secrets of the elusive and skittish woman who has captured his heart. Maldie on the other hand is torn between revealing the truth to Balfour and risking everything they had shared, while still planning to fulfill the vow she had made to her dying mother. And when his suspicions of her betrayal forced her to escape and rescue Eric to prove her innocence, Balfour soon realizes his mistakes and now seeks another victory: Maldie's heart.<br /><br />Although it lacks the humor of the other books in the Highland series, Highland Destiny features good leads and secondary characters. Balfour is not your typical alpha-male for he is plagued with insecurities about his looks and even feels threatened by his brother, Nigel, who also falls in love with Maldie thus adding to a bit of competition. And Maldie isn't your usual well-bred lady having been born illegitimate and having endured a harsh life with a bitter mother who nearly forced her to a life of prostitution.<br /><br />HIGHLAND DESTINY is the first in Hannah Howell's trilogy set in medieval Scotland featuring the Murray brothers. Filled with deceit, misunderstandings and passion, it is a good introduction to the Murray brothers who would surely capture your heart. The other two books are HIGHLAND HONOR featuring Nigel and HIGHLAND PROMISE with Eric.ecurities about his looks and even feels threatened by his brother, Nigel, who also falls in love with Maldie thus adding to a bit of competition. And Maldie isn't your usual well-bred lady having been born illegitimate and having endured a harsh life with a bitter mother who nearly forced her to a life of prostitution.      HIGHLAND DESTINY is the first in Hannah Howell's trilogy set in medieval Scotland featuring the Murray brothers. Filled with deceit, misunderstandings and passion, it is a good introduction to the Murray brothers who would surely capture your heart. The other two books are HIGHLAND HONOR featuring Nigel and HIGHLAND PROMISE with Eric.	2005-04-29
US	15230875	R3DU9SCVQRQ7BS	0821760955	439778141	Highland Honor	Books	3	34	34	N	N	Good but dragged in some parts (Murray Brothers # 2)	Seven years ago, Nigel Murray left his beloved Scotland to become a mercenary, offering his sword and fighting skills to any French lord who pays the most. But when he wakes up one morning to find himself sprawled in the mud, having spent all night boozing with no recollection of how he got there, he knew it was time for him to go home and face reality. While deep in thoughts, he hears voices and checks to see whom they belong to. He spots two people deep in conversation but knew instantly that the one dressed like a lad is a woman.<br /><br />Gisele Deveau is a hunted woman. Falsely accused of the gruesome death of her wealthy husband, she has been running away for a whole year. When Nigel ends up saving her life, she knows that he is her only refuge for many of her own family have turned away from her and has even decried her a murderess.<br /><br />Realizing that Gisele's life is in extreme danger, Nigel is overcome with the need to protect her, especially when he learns that she is pretty much on her own. And although she fears men in general having suffered pain and humiliation from the hands of her husband, Gisele knows she has no choice but to trust the man who has entangled himself in her troubles.<br /><br />Little do they know that they would be faced with another trouble: that of their growing attraction to each other. Nigel is torn and confused about what he feels worried that he is still holding out for a dream in Gisele's form who is the living embodiment of Maldie, with her dark curls and green eyes so much like the woman whose ghost he has clung to for years. Gisele, on the other hand, is fearful to put her trust in another man after what she has been through before.<br /><br />In this second book of the Highland Series featuring the Murray brothers, we learn of what happened to Nigel since he left Donncoill after losing Maldie to his brother Balfour. It was a little sad to read about how he has immersed himself in drinking and womanizing in an attempt to ease his heartache so it was good to finally see him find happiness in the arms of Gisele.<br /><br />Just like the first book, HIGHLAND HONOR is full of adventure and passion. Gisele is a likable heroine, very similar to Maldie but with a sharper tongue. Both characters are strong and well-matched and as passionate as the first book's characters. I must say though that I found some parts dragged a bit, especially while they travelled back to Scotland. But I enjoyed the homecoming scene and was happy to see the old characters from HIGHLAND DESTINY.was good to finally see him find happiness in the arms of Gisele.     Just like the first book, HIGHLAND HONOR is full of adventure and passion. Gisele is a likable heroine, very similar to Maldie but with a sharper tongue. Both characters are strong and well-matched and as passionate as the first book's characters. I must say though that I found some parts dragged a bit, especially while they travelled back to Scotland. But I enjoyed the homecoming scene and was happy to see the old characters from HIGHLAND DESTINY.	2005-04-29
US	15230875	R3NUT43NN7SYL1	0821762540	932087056	Highland Promise	Books	4	15	15	N	N	Enjoyable (Murray Brothers Book # 3)	In this third and final installment in Hannah Howell's Highland Series featuring the Murray brothers, we get to see Eric Murray finally meet his fate and also claim his rightful birthright as laird of Dubhlinn. If you have read the first two novels, HIGHLAND DESTINY and HIGHLAND HONOR, you would be familiar with Eric's parentage - that he is really a Beaton by birth, but have been fostered by Balfour and Nigel and raised as a Murray.<br /><br />Now after thirteen years of petitioning the king to grant him lairdship of Dubhlinn, Eric has had enough and decided to finally face his mother's kinsmen and ask them to aid his cause. On his way there, he comes across a tiny woman bravely trying to fend off some thieves. He comes to her rescue and learns that she is running away from Sir William, who has already killed her twin sister and her husband and now wants her and her nephew, James, dead.<br /><br />When Bethia Drummond learns that Eric is on his way to Bealachan, which is near her home Dunnbea, she accepts his offer to escort them home. But she soon realizes that along with the danger of Sir William capturing them is the danger of what her attraction to Eric will lead.<br /><br />HIGHLAND PROMISE is another adventurous tale of honor, love and betrayal. As typical of Hannah Howell, her Scottish warriors are honorable men; intent on protecting the people they care about. I liked how Eric has turned out to be as great a man as his brothers are, and how protective of Bethia and James he became. His anger towards Bethia's parents' disregard for her and his need to take her away from Dunnbea is real heart-warming. And Bethia is such an endearing character. Having lived in her beautiful sister's shadow all her life and being cast aside by her own parents due to her plainness, one can't help but sympathize with her and wish her every happiness with Eric and little James.<br /><br />This is another good novel by Ms Howell. I would also recommend reading HIGHLAND BRIDE featuring Eric and Bethia's daughter Gillyanne, which is a highly entertaining and really hilarious read (better than this!)Gillyanne, which is a highly entertaining and really hilarious read (better than this!)	2005-04-29
US	15230875	R3020I4FAL8G0K	0821768174	144190493	Highland Knight (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Second book in the Murray daughters' trilogy	In this second book in the Highland trilogy featuring the Murray daughters, we see how Avery, daughter of Nigel and Gisele (HIGHLAND HONOR), ensnare her own knight.<br /><br />While visiting the Lucettes in France with her cousin Gillyanne, Avery Murray finds herself in trouble when the Deveauxs attacked the Lucette keep. Taken as prisoner, she was tossed at the feet of Cameron McAlpin, a Scottish mercenary who has sold his sword to the DeVeaux. Having sworn himself to a life of celibacy three years ago, Cameron didn't care much for Avery but when he learns of her identity, he decides to use her against Payton Murray, Avery's brother, whom his sister has accused of dishonoring her.<br /><br />Avery is outraged at Cameron's accusations knowing that her brother isn't capable of such crime. But what she finds more appalling is her intense attraction to him and his arrogance in declaring that he will make her pay for her brother's crimes not by force, but by seduction.<br /><br />And boy does he succeed in seducing her! The love scenes are hot and definitely the most daring in the series so far. I loved Avery's boldness and the fact that Cameron is not so worldly like the heroes in other novels. When they say that this book is full of adventure, they're not only referring to the journey back to Scotland or the battles in between.<br /><br />HIGHLAND KNIGHT is an exciting and hilarious read with funny characters. You will enjoy the verbal spats between the main characters. And another great thing about this is the involvement of Gillyanne and Cameron's cousin Leargan. Gillyane is just so delightful that she manages to shine in every scene, while Leargan adds some wit to the dialogues as well.<br /><br />I highly recommend this book and also HIGHLAND BRIDE, which is little Gilly's story.	2005-04-29
US	15230875	R7HDTHVRGU662	0821773976	214677349	Highland Bride (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	5	36	36	N	N	Third book in the Murray daughters' trilogy	In this novel, the third and final installment in Hannah Howell's second Highland Series featuring those feisty Murray daughters, get to meet the daughter of Eric and Bethia Murray from HIGHLAND PROMISE.<br /><br />At nearly twenty-one, Gillyanne Murray is considered past the marrying age. Despite travelling to the king's court a few times, she is yet to attract the eye of any man. And as much as she longs to feel the happiness and excitement that she sees in her married female cousins, she has resigned herself to the fact that men just simply find her unattractive, with her faintly mismatched eyes, short stature and lack of curves.<br /><br />From the age of fifteen, Connor MacEnroy has been the laird of Deilcladach after the deaths of his parents caused by a longstanding feud with other clans. Having lost everything after that tragedy twelve years before, he has rebuilt Deilcladach, raised his siblings and managed the survival of his people. When he, and the two other neighboring lairds hear that an unmarried woman now owns Ald-dabhach, they seek the king's permission to fight for control over the keep.<br /><br />And so when Gillyanne decides to visit Ald-dabhach, the small keep that a doting uncle has gifted her, little does she know that she would be fighting off three neighboring lairds who have gained the king's permission to marry her and control her keep. When she refuses their proposal, they then took turns attacking her keep, but although she manages to repel their individual attacks, Gilly knows that a combined one could result to bloodshed, therefore she has no other choice but to pick one from them. And based on her initial attraction to him, she chooses Connor.<br /><br />And so the fun begins. I was laughing my head off and cheering Gilly the whole time she tried to repel their attacks. And after the marriage, I liked how she embarrassed Connor in front of his clan by telling everyone how he forced her to a quick marriage and how he had ineptly bedded her. Then, when Connor makes love to her properly, the way she becomes 'the bell for each meal' because of how loud she is that the whole of Deilcladach know that Connor and her would be coming down for dinner shortly after was so hilarious! You just have to read it.<br /><br />Of course, their relationship isn't without bumps for after Gillyanne has finally tasted the passion that she had often seen bring sparkle to her cousins' eyes, she is dismayed that she feels it for a man who shared so little of himself. And the fact that despite her gift for sensing other people's feelings she is unable to read<br />Connor's causes her problems. She knows she needs to break through the wall that Connor has built around himself. Connor, on the other hand, tries hard to suppress his feelings for her for fear that his people would think less of him if he shows too much emotion.<br /><br />HIGHLAND BRIDE is a fun and easy read. With such engaging characters and witty dialogues, it is guaranteed to keep you glued from start to finish. This is the best in the series.ove to her properly, the way she becomes 'the bell for each meal' because of how loud she is that the whole of Deilcladach know that Connor and her would be coming down for dinner shortly after was so hilarious! You just have to read it.    Of course, their relationship isn't without bumps for after Gillyanne has finally tasted the passion that she had often seen bring sparkle to her cousins' eyes, she is dismayed that she feels it for a man who shared so little of himself. And the fact that despite her gift for sensing other people's feelings she is unable to read  Connor's causes her problems. She knows she needs to break through the wall that Connor has built around himself. Connor, on the other hand, tries hard to suppress his feelings for her for fear that his people would think less of him if he shows too much emotion.     HIGHLAND BRIDE is a fun and easy read. With such engaging characters and witty dialogues, it is guaranteed to keep you glued from start to finish. This is the best in the series.	2005-04-29
US	15230875	R3HA5QUVMN7GEG	0671742566	546443686	Tender Triumph (Sonnet Books)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Not as bad as the general reviews	TENDER TRIUMPH is a story about two people who must learn to put their faith in each other to find true love.<br /><br />Years ago, he left an obscure town in Puerto Rico to search for greener pastures, only to come back years later defeated. Ramon Galverra had it all - obscene wealth, his own private jet, villas in the Mediterranean and everything that comes with being the head of Galverra International, a massive financial empire. But thanks to the jealousy of his egotistical father, he is now left with nothing but a barely self-sufficient farm and cottage in the small village he grew up in.  Until the night he meets Katie.<br /><br />Behind her promising career and luxurious lifestyle, lies a past that still haunts her. Two years ago, Katie Connelly fell in love with an attorney and got married right after graduating from college. Two months later, she realized that David wasn't the man she thought he was. And finally after six months of marriage, she found herself a victim of David's infidelity and cruelty - a battered wife. Although the physical bruises have healed a long time ago, those in her heart remain, causing her to be distrustful and aloof to men, and those whose have wanted her but never had her call her the `vestal virgin'. Then finally she meets Ramon - the Spaniard whose nearness causes her to feel that surge of excitement. The man whose mysteriousness makes her pull away, yet whose gentleness draws her in.<br /><br />Along with their unexpected meeting comes the beginning of a whirlwind romance.  From the very first moment he saw her, he felt a feeling of protectiveness toward her, for he sensed that she wasn't truly happy with her surrounding. He knows he could make her happy but he needs to convince her of that. For Katie, her life has never been the same since the night she met him. But while she knows she feels more than physical attraction for Ramon, there are things about him that puzzle her and stop her from giving herself fully to him. If only she can unravel the mystery of the man who has managed to turn her life upside down in a couple of days.<br /><br />Although it doesn't quite measure up to JM's two other contemporary novels PARADISE and PERFECT, I did enjoy reading this and was surprised to see it so poorly rated. I only read a handful of the reviews to see what the backlash is and, personally, I don't quite understand why people hated the hero so much. Sure he came across as a real chauvinistic pig at the beginning of the story, but if you read closely toward the end, his actions were all explained. He was ashamed that he couldn't provide her with the lifestyle she was accustomed to and had to convince her that a woman's place is at home and that she would be happy as a traditional wife. Really, the man just lost everything and was left with nothing but his pride so I felt that he deserved more sympathy. Imagine having everything one minute and then be practically reduced to a pauper the next second, and then have to go back home to the village you once turned your back on knowing that they see you as nothing but a failure.<br /><br />Overall, I didn't think that this is as bad as the general review. I did think that the ending was a bit rushed and I missed the wit, humor and emotional roller coaster that I have enjoyed in Ms McNaught's other books.he mystery of the man who has managed to turn her life upside down in a couple of days.     Although it doesn't quite measure up to JM's two other contemporary novels PARADISE and PERFECT, I did enjoy reading this and was surprised to see it so poorly rated. I only read a handful of the reviews to see what the backlash is and, personally, I don't quite understand why people hated the hero so much. Sure he came across as a real chauvinistic pig at the beginning of the story, but if you read closely toward the end, his actions were all explained. He was ashamed that he couldn't provide her with the lifestyle she was accustomed to and had to convince her that a woman's place is at home and that she would be happy as a traditional wife. Really, the man just lost everything and was left with nothing but his pride so I felt that he deserved more sympathy. Imagine having everything one minute and then be practically reduced to a pauper the next second, and then have to go back home to the village you once turned your back on knowing that they see you as nothing but a failure.    Overall, I didn't think that this is as bad as the general review. I did think that the ending was a bit rushed and I missed the wit, humor and emotional roller coaster that I have enjoyed in Ms McNaught's other books.	2005-04-08
US	15230875	R282M8NXWRM0GB	0843946229	958194055	The Black Knight	Books	4	17	18	N	N	An exciting adventure	Twelve years after being banished from Castle Chirk, he returns atop his warhorse, exuding arrogance and superiority.  But as the Black Knight crosses the inner bailey, painful memories come back to him - of the time when he was a mere sixteen-year-old who dreamed of being a knight and protector of women, a mere squire who bore the mark of his illegitimacy, and a young man who fell in love with the daughter of the Lord of Chirk. Along with the memory of the only girl he had ever love is that of the betrayal of a jealous twelve-year-old.<br /><br />As she looks down at him from her bedchamber, the sight of the magnificent knight impresses Raven of Chirk. Who is this great knight whose praises are sung all over the kingdom? And to her utter shock, the Black Knight removes his helm and reveals who he is - Drake, the man she loved when she was but a mere slip of girl; the man who once fancied himself in love with her sister, Daria; the man who hated her because he thought she betrayed him.<br /><br />When Drake sees her, he was astounded to find the scrawny child turned into a stunning beauty. But he reminds himself that she is the same woman whose betrayal cost him his love and turned him into a hardened knight. The one who made him vow never to lose his heart again and to only use women for pleasure.<br /><br />THE BLACK KNIGHT is a sensual and exciting story of betrayal, deceit and love. Set in the medieval era, it is a very exciting read with sizzling love scenes, knights in shining armor and tournament battles. You will enjoy the romance that develops between Drake and Raven. I enjoyed how Drake tried so hard to resist Raven but ends up saving her from a life of misery and pain from his evil half-brother and consequently putting his own life in danger along with the risk of losing the King's favor for his actions.<br /><br />Just like THE LION'S BRIDE, I was glued from the start. This is one exciting adventure that I enjoyed reading.	2005-04-06
US	15230875	R3HJWY5X2XXO8F	0671737600	306967198	Double Standards	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Exciting, but could have been much better	She inherited her late mother's musical talent.  After years of study and practice at the piano, along with a master's degree in music, Lauren Danner realizes that there is no future in it for her, especially when her father loses his job and then has a heart attack.  Since her father has helped her financially in the past, she feels that now is the time to pay him back, and with the staggering bills accruing as each day goes, she knows that she needs to get a job.  But what Philip Whitworth, a distant relative and owner of Whitworth Enterprises, is offering her is more than she could stomach. There is no way she could spy for him to see who among his executives is on the payroll of Nick Sinclair, the President and Founder of Global Industries, Whitworth's major competition. So she deliberately fails her tests during the interview and leaves the interview relieved that she didn't get the job. But when she accidentally falls flat on her face, literally at Nick Sinclair's feet, she looks up and becomes instantly mesmerized. When Nick brings her up to his office to make sure she isn't seriously injured, Lauren thinks that he is just a mere engineer working at Global Industries, who offers to call people at the company to put in a good word for her.<br /><br />Nick Sinclair is one of the most powerful men in the industry. Rising from an unremarkable childhood, he has built himself a multi-million dollar empire. When it comes to women though, he lives by one rule: love them and leave them. So when he meets Lauren, he arrogantly assumes that she will be another easy conquest for him, and for a moment she seems to be, for as quickly as he has relieved her of her virginity, he packs her up and sends her away. But when Lauren learns the truth about him and treats him with detached friendliness, he was practically floored. For the first time, he finds himself challenged and relentlessly pursues Lauren.<br /><br />DOUBLE STANDARDS, although not quite up there with PARADISE and PERFECT, is a very enjoyable contemporary novel. It starts out good and you're sure to find yourself hooked after a few pages.  As typical of other Judith McNaught's books, the hero is a man of great power and wealth who has had a difficult childhood, while the heroine is nave and virginal.  There are many laugh out loud scenes such as when Lauren tells Nick how she would call him when her daughter comes of age so he could initiate her if he's still active, or how he's running to be in the team for bedroom Olympics. There is some really lively banter between them that I found delightful.<br /><br />This could have been a really great book if not for a few issues. For one, the book seemed a bit rush in that the identity of the mole wasn't really uncovered.  Then there's the fact with Nick and his mother. I felt that a real explosive meeting between them should have been included. Lastly, even though Nick did atone for his ruthless treatment of Lauren in the end, he should have been made to suffer a bit more. Maybe Ms McNaught can re-write the ending???<br /><br />Nonetheless, I did enjoy reading this and I remain a big fan of the author.ery enjoyable contemporary novel. It starts out good and you're sure to find yourself hooked after a few pages.  As typical of other Judith McNaught's books, the hero is a man of great power and wealth who has had a difficult childhood, while the heroine is nave and virginal.  There are many laugh out loud scenes such as when Lauren tells Nick how she would call him when her daughter comes of age so he could initiate her if he's still active, or how he's running to be in the team for bedroom Olympics. There is some really lively banter between them that I found delightful.     This could have been a really great book if not for a few issues. For one, the book seemed a bit rush in that the identity of the mole wasn't really uncovered.  Then there's the fact with Nick and his mother. I felt that a real explosive meeting between them should have been included. Lastly, even though Nick did atone for his ruthless treatment of Lauren in the end, he should have been made to suffer a bit more. Maybe Ms McNaught can re-write the ending???    Nonetheless, I did enjoy reading this and I remain a big fan of the author.	2005-04-04
US	15230875	R12HPGGTN7OU6Y	0671795554	706034749	Remember When (The Foster Saga)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Not quite like Paradise and Perfect but still good	She is a national celebrity - the embodiment of serenity, gentleness and optimism. At thirty-one, she is the CEO of the widely successful Beautiful Living magazine, one of the most successful businesswomen in the country and idolized by many. Yet after years of hard work and dedication to the family business, Diana Foster, the woman who has always maintained a calm outlook amidst chaos, is near breaking point, especially upon being dealt the news that her fianc&eacute; has jilted her for an eighteen-year-old model. Along with the public humiliation, \\"America's Sweetheart's\\" reputation is on the line.<br /><br />He is the hard-driving CEO of Unified Industries, a billionaire who has acquired many enemies and very few friends. Along with his empire, he has built himself a reputation for being unscrupulous, cold and ruthless, a man who goes in for the kill. At thirty-six, Cole Harrison has complete control of everything in his personal and business life except for one man - his uncle, the only person who had faith in him when he was a nobody. When his uncle blackmails him into marrying and producing an heir, he knows he has no choice but to obey, or risk losing fifty percent of the stock to his no-good relatives.<br /><br />As fate would have it, Cole and Diana are thrown together at a Dallas fund-raising party. Just as he expected, Diana was more beautiful and graceful than ever. He fondly remembers her kindness and quiet poise when she was still a teenager who came to visit at the stable that he used to work at in his college days. And with her current predicament in his mind, he strikes up a bargain with her - a marriage of convenience to solve both their problems. She could save face, while he could prevent his uncle from transferring his shares over to his relatives. Thus, they seal the bargain with a quick wedding. But little did they know that despite their agreement, they would soon find themselves involved deeper than they wanted to.<br /><br />REMEMBER WHEN is a story of two successful people who have found friendship with one another in their youth and then love in their adulthood. I liked how we are introduced to a younger Cole and Diana. I enjoyed reading the friendship that blossomed between them despite them being so different from each other - he is blunt and reckless as she is cautious and proper.  He was just a lowly stable hand trying to escape the stigma of his youth, while she was a rich girl with a perfect and loving family. It was sweet reading about how Diana brought food for Cole because she knew he was always hungry and didn't have much money to spare. The way she went on about it without making him feel like he was a charity case and consequently hurt his pride was very endearing. And then years later when they met at the charity ball, I loved how Cole saved Diana from a potential embarrassment.<br /><br />This novel was an enjoyable read, although not on par with PARADISE and PERFECT. I guess my main gripe is that the romance came a bit too late in the book and the ending seemed a bit rushed. But overall, I enjoyed reading this and found it entertaining despite missing some of the really emotional scenes that I have come to love in JM's other novels.ple who have found friendship with one another in their youth and then love in their adulthood. I liked how we are introduced to a younger Cole and Diana. I enjoyed reading the friendship that blossomed between them despite them being so different from each other - he is blunt and reckless as she is cautious and proper.  He was just a lowly stable hand trying to escape the stigma of his youth, while she was a rich girl with a perfect and loving family. It was sweet reading about how Diana brought food for Cole because she knew he was always hungry and didn't have much money to spare. The way she went on about it without making him feel like he was a charity case and consequently hurt his pride was very endearing. And then years later when they met at the charity ball, I loved how Cole saved Diana from a potential embarrassment.    This novel was an enjoyable read, although not on par with PARADISE and PERFECT. I guess my main gripe is that the romance came a bit too late in the book and the ending seemed a bit rushed. But overall, I enjoyed reading this and found it entertaining despite missing some of the really emotional scenes that I have come to love in JM's other novels.	2005-04-03
US	15230875	R1V7THXNDUV5V0	0380756269	222985860	Man of My Dreams	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Pretty funny (Sherring Cross # 1)	With her beauty unsurpassed by any females in the land, Megan Penworthy has every men falling over themselves trying to get her attention. Unfortunately for her, it seemed that it was also her remarkable beauty that led to her being snubbed by Lady Ophelia, the Countess of Wedgwood, whose highly coveted invitation is something that Megan has been waiting for the last two years. Hurt by this, Megan decides to marry the Duke of Wrothston for being his duchess would mean a higher title than that of Lady Ophelia's, which would be the sweetest revenge of all.<br /><br />Ambrose Devlin St. James, the fourth duke of Wrothston, finds himself in hiding in order to avoid the altar and possibly a fatal confrontation with his best friend whose scheming sister accuses him of seducing her and getting her pregnant. On his grandmother's advise, he poses as the horse breeder, Devlin Jefferys, and works at the stable of Megan's father.<br /><br />When Devlin learns of Megan's desire to marry him, The Duke, he was appalled and infuriated and thought of her as nothing but a scheming spoiled brat although he cannot fight the attraction that he feels for her. Meanwhile, Megan is irritated yet intrigued by the horse breeder not knowing of his real identity. And she soon finds herself losing her common sense after having her curiosity aroused by Devlin's sexual magnetism.<br /><br />MAN OF MY DREAMS is humorous and outrageous and the verbal skirmishes and insults that Devlin and Megan throw at each other were entertaining, and the sexual innuendos were exciting to read as well. The brief appearance of Lachlan MacGregor also added to the fun and makes you look forward to reading his own story (Love Me Forever).<br /><br />But although the story started out really well for me, I found it getting a little repetitive after a while and started getting annoyed with Megan's constant debate and discussion with her conscience. I also found it tedious how Megan kept on moaning about her \\"cursed face\\" and how her beauty seems to be such a liability to her.  Still, this is a fun story to read and I would have probably given this at least 4 stars had it not been for those minor quibbles.<br /><br />My real rating is 3 1/2 stars for this and 3 stars for its sequel, LOVE ME FOREVER.be such a liability to her.  Still, this is a fun story to read and I would have probably given this at least 4 stars had it not been for those minor quibbles.        My real rating is 3 1/2 stars for this and 3 stars for its sequel, LOVE ME FOREVER.	2005-04-01
US	15230875	R3M62XZJ1INLCK	0380725703	745711270	Love Me Forever	Books	3	5	8	N	N	Funny but a little slow (Sherring Cross # 2)	After coming out of mourning for her beloved mother's death, Kimberly Richards finds herself bereft of a fianc&eacute; and facing her father's ire.  Eager to be rid of her so he can finally remarry, her father commands her to find a husband soon and sends her to Sherring Cross, the home of the duke and duchess of Wrothston (Devlin and Megan from Man of My Dreams) hoping that they would be able to help her.<br /><br />As it happens, a lot of guests were staying at Sherring Cross and one of them happens to be Lachlan MacGregor, the recently impoverished Scottish laird also on the lookout for a spouse.  Now Kimberley is impressed by Lachlan's good looks but is appalled by his rough and brutish behavior.  Add the fact that he is so intent on winning the duchess' heart. But when Kimberley was bold enough to tell him off, he finds himself intrigued by her and actually becoming less interested in the duchess. Soon he goes to seduce her, much to Kimberley's dismay. But her resistance doesn't last long and she soon finds herself longing for his kiss and meeting him secretly.  But when they were discovered, she is compromised and had no choice but to marry the Scot.<br /><br />If you have read Man of My Dreams, then you're already familiar with some of the characters and will remember Lachlan as probably the only kidnapper that you'll have a good laugh with.  In this story, he remains true to his old character and you'll find him charming and witty.  One of the delightful aspects of this story is how ill matched he and Kimberley seemed. I liked the fact that she isn't so beautiful like Megan is, that you actually empathize with her; which also brings me back to Megan and Devlin's role in this novel. On Man of My Dreams, I found Megan's constant complaint about her beauty tedious, but her reference to Kimberley's plainness and how she's practically unnoticeable made me want to smack her. But my own complaints aside, this was an enjoyable book to read with a rather delightful ending though I personally think that this isn't one of Johanna Lindsey's best.rsonally think that this isn't one of Johanna Lindsey's best.	2005-04-01
US	15230875	R383CX86OC38RQ	038077013X	689464190	Then Came You (Avon Historical Romance)	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Witty and delightful	In London's haute ton, no other woman is more admired than the fearless, headstrong and strikingly beautiful Lily Lawson. Finding great amusement in being unconventional and improper, she is notorious for her outrageous antics and colorful vocabulary, earning her the nickname \\"Lawless Lily\\". Whereas other women would have been condemned for such behavior and cut off from the society, Lily gets away with it. Men find her all the more desirable because of her uniqueness, while women are secretly envious of her. To everyone, Lily is a happy-go-lucky who doesn't seem to have a care for the world. Yet behind closed doors, she secretly harbors pain over her estrangement to her family, and her agony over her missing daughter, Nicole, whom she has kept a secret.<br /><br />As the Earl of Wolverton, Alex Raiford is one of the wealthiest and most influential aristocrats in England. Since the death of his parents, he has lived a very responsible life looking after his younger brother, Henry. Reserved and private, he has lived a tormented life ever since he lost his fianc&eacute;e, Caroline, in a hunting accident two years before. For fear of losing his heart once again, he picks a meek and docile lady for his bride - none other Penelope, Lily's sister.<br /><br />But when Penelope's true love, Zachary, approaches Lily seeking her help in preventing the marriage, Lily fears for her sister's life hearing how cruel and mean Alex is supposed to be. So she vows to do everything in her power to make sure that Penelope and Zachary end up together. And as she set out to stop the wedding, she realizes that she's never had so much fun in provoking a man.<br /><br />Meanwhile, Lord Raiford finds himself fascinated by Lily and the puzzle that she presents him, much to his chagrin. While always in control of himself and everything around him, he finds himself unable to do so when around Lily, the most distracting woman he had ever met. Before he could stop it, he finds himself developing feelings for her, wanting to protect and take care of her. And for once in his responsible life, he decides to follow his heart and make Lily his.<br /><br />THEN CAME YOU is a story of two people who are both trying to escape from grief; Alex over the death of his fianc&eacute;e, while Lily is trying to get her daughter back, who for all she knows might no longer even be alive. And it is this secret that she knows could possibly tear them apart, a possibility that tears at her guts for Alex is the only man who has ever given her happiness.<br /><br />With a great storyline and wonderful characters, this is a very witty and exciting novel, backed up by great secondary characters (notably Derek Craven, Henry Raiford and even Burton, the butler). I thoroughly enjoyed the banter between Lily and Alex and I loved the scene at Craven's when Alex places a wager against a night with Lily. It was so exciting to read! Another great addition to this is Derek Craven. His part in this book is sure to pull at your heartstrings and will make you wish that he found his own happiness, which I am glad to say he will in his own story, DREAMING OF YOU.<br /><br />This is the second novel of Lisa Kleypas that I have read. I actually read DREAMING OF YOU first, which is the sequel (and even better than this). Read this and I guarantee that you will want to read Lisa Kleypas' other books.rotect and take care of her. And for once in his responsible life, he decides to follow his heart and make Lily his.    THEN CAME YOU is a story of two people who are both trying to escape from grief; Alex over the death of his fiance, while Lily is trying to get her daughter back, who for all she knows might no longer even be alive. And it is this secret that she knows could possibly tear them apart, a possibility that tears at her guts for Alex is the only man who has ever given her happiness.     With a great storyline and wonderful characters, this is a very witty and exciting novel, backed up by great secondary characters (notably Derek Craven, Henry Raiford and even Burton, the butler). I thoroughly enjoyed the banter between Lily and Alex and I loved the scene at Craven's when Alex places a wager against a night with Lily. It was so exciting to read! Another great addition to this is Derek Craven. His part in this book is sure to pull at your heartstrings and will make you wish that he found his own happiness, which I am glad to say he will in his own story, DREAMING OF YOU.    This is the second novel of Lisa Kleypas that I have read. I actually read DREAMING OF YOU first, which is the sequel (and even better than this). Read this and I guarantee that you will want to read Lisa Kleypas' other books.	2005-03-29
US	15230875	R8E697FGX58S6	0843938846	833195738	The Lion's Bride	Books	5	25	29	N	N	This book sizzles!	The year is 1067 and William the Conqueror is the new King of England. Along the borderlands of Northumbria, Ariana of Cragmere grieves at the news of her father and three brothers' death at the Battle of Hastings. At the age of fourteen and with merely a handful of knights left to protect her, she awaits her fate at the hands of the Norman invaders.<br /><br />Lyon of Normandy is a staunch defender of the Norman King. A landless knight, he is a fierce and hardened warrior who bears the taint of his bastardy. Having saved William's life before, he finds himself rewarded greatly as the new Lord of Cragmere. But he also reluctantly finds himself with a new bride in the form of Lady Ariana.<br /><br />When Lyon meets Ariana for the first time, he is surprised to find that his bride to be has not even ripened into womanhood. Yet he sees the promise of great beauty in the years to come and finds himself looking forward to that day. In the meantime, he leaves her under the care of the nuns at St. Claire Abbey hoping to tame her, which only added to Ariana's hate and fury.<br /><br />Five years later and the King orders Lyon to finally take his place as Lord of Cragmere and fetch Ariana from the abbey. And so he goes and is surprised to find that his child bride's fiery disposition hasn't been subdued and her hate much worse. But was she a sight to behold! Lyon finds himself desiring her like he had no other woman. Ariana on the other hand is deeply unsettled by his effect on her but still vows to never surrender to this Norman knight.<br /><br />THE LION'S BRIDE is a novel about two born enemies brought together by the manipulation of an ambitious king. It is a wonderfully told novel oozing with sensuality and passion. The way the story unfolds is such a good read. The way this fierce knight helplessly falls for the sharp-tongued vixen, loving her against all logic to the point that she becomes indispensable to him is so exciting to read. And when he sacrifice his pride and honor and denounce his king for her, it made my heart melt.<br /><br />This is a sizzling story that is guaranteed to keep you glued. I look forward to reading more of Connie Mason's books.for her, it made my heart melt.    This is a sizzling story that is guaranteed to keep you glued. I look forward to reading more of Connie Mason's books.	2005-03-29
US	15230875	R31FVN4WJRTJLI	0380776170	376589566	The Last Hellion (The Scoundrels Series)	Books	3	3	4	N	N	3 and a half stars for the witty dialogue	Vere Aylwin Mallory is the last surviving hellion of the Mallory clan. No one would have guessed that he would end up with the dukedom with several Mallory males standing between him and the title. But when tragedy strikes, he became the seventh Duke of Ainswood, a title he is resentful for, as it reminds him at what price it came.<br /><br />Lydia Grenville is a successful writer for the Argus Magazine. At 28, she is a confirmed spinster, who has a black mastiff named Susan for companion. Cynical, hardheaded, and completely independent, her icy-blue eyes can freeze the very devil himself. Yet underneath the hard exterior lays a woman who has lived a harsh life: her mother was a descendant of the aristocratic Ballister clan who ran away with her father, a gambler and wastrel who never gave a fig about them; she lost her younger sister while they were held at Marshalsea prison, wherein they were sent when her father couldn't pay off his debts. And when her father finally abandoned them, she was raised by an aunt and uncle who suffered from wanderlust and dragged her all over the world with them.<br /><br />When fate one day decides to throw these two cynical creatures together, a long series of hilarious confrontations begin between two of the most ill-matched pair you'll come across with. While both hated each other's guts, neither could resist the strong attraction that pulls them together.<br /><br />THE LAST HELLION has some very witty dialogues that make for some fun read. The lively banter between Vere and Lydia is quite hilarious. I knew from the start of the book that I was in for some pretty fun read when we see Vere singing the words to a funeral song to the tune of a lewd ballad. So why only 3 stars? Because unfortunately the fun seemed to stop as soon as Vere and Lydia were wed. The story just dragged from there. I also didn't find it very romantic and the sexual tension between the two characters rather unconvincing.<br /><br />But I will give this author another chance and plan on reading LORD OF SCOUNDRELS, which has received glowing reviews here.ading LORD OF SCOUNDRELS, which has received glowing reviews here.	2005-03-27
US	15230875	RK8BT2A6P45BE	0380752948	186697614	Silver Angel	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Pretty exotic - 3 and a half stars	For nineteen years, Derek Sinclair, the Earl of Mulbury, has lived in England after leaving the coast of Barikah. Only him and his grandfather know that he also left behind his twin brother, now the current Dey. When he receives a cryptic note from him, he immediately leaves for Barikah knowing that it could only mean that his brother's life is in grave danger.<br /><br />Unbeknownst to him, the crew that sailed from Barikah to deliver that message ends up abducting Chantelle Burke. Running away from an unwanted marriage, Chantelle finds herself the newest concubine in the Dey's harem. But little does she know that the real Dey bought her as a present for Derek. Derek, on the other hand, has assumed the role of the Dey, while Jamil has left the palace to find out who is behind the attempts on his life.<br /><br />Beautiful, fiery and rebellious, Chantelle stirs up Derek's blood like no other woman ever have. Yet even though Chantelle finds herself attracted to him, she is abhorred by the cruelty she knows the Dey is capable of after what she's witnessed on her first night at the palace. And not knowing that it wasn't Derek but his brother she met that night puts Derek in the most difficult position of winning Chantelle's heart. Knowing he couldn't possibly tell her the truth without revealing his true identity, he courts her English-style, which completely baffles Chantelle.<br /><br />Although the middle part of the book lagged a little, and even with my dissatisfaction with the ending, I still enjoyed reading this. Johanna Lindsey has created an exotic location with this novel; her description of the palace, harem life and the women is so vivid that I was intrigued by it and felt as if I was actually part of it. The characters are well-portrayed and the sexual tension between Derek and Chantelle makes for a pretty good read.	2005-03-26
US	15230875	R25OOD978W3G8	0843929723	360160035	Elfking's Lady	Books	5	12	12	N	N	A pleasure to read	While out riding the moors in the Scottish Lowlands, Aimil and her elder brother were captured and taken captive by a group of Highlanders. Held for ransom, she is initially petrified and feared for their lives, for tales of the fierce MacGuin laird is legendary among the feuding Scottish clans. Commonly referred to as the Black Parlan, he is rumored to roast and eat babies and pick his teeth with their bones. But it doesn't take long before Aimil realizes that Parlan is both kind and reasonable and not the murderous and unmerciful laird that he is rumored to be.<br /><br />But Aimil must now face another problem for the Black Parlan has set his sights on her magnificent horse, Elfking. When she refuses to give her beloved horse over to him, she is forced to make a choice: either give herself to him or hand over Elfking.  Well no prize for guessing what her choice is. And so she gets to keep her magnificent white stallion and gains another one in the process.<br /><br />Both of the main characters are very likable. Aimil is fiery, stubborn and beautiful, while Parlan is arrogant, sexy and oh-so-male. What makes this book so enjoyable is the humor. The verbal spats between Aimil and Parlan made me laugh. Throw in some hot love scenes as well, plus a great support from the secondary characters and you know you're in for a lot of fun reading. And to complicate the story further, there is the jealous ex-lover determined to get the hero back and that evil betrothed determined to destroy Aimil and Parlan. Those villains really will keep you hanging on to the end to see justice done.<br /><br />Fun and entertaining, ELFKING'S LADY is a delightful read from start to finish. I would also recommend AMBER FLAME, which I consider to be even better than this.	2005-03-15
US	15230875	R2ZJIZWOAWJPY6	038077352X	382195301	Dreaming of You	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A very moving love story	He was born in a gutter, abandoned by his mother then raised by prostitutes who took pity on him. At the tender age of six, he started working as a climbing boy cleaning chimneys for the wealthy, then as a grave-robber in his teens and finally as a prostitute servicing ladies of gentry. Against all odds, he survived to become one of the wealthiest men in London. As owner of Craven's, the most famous gambling house in London, he is richer than most of the aristocrats who patronize his very exclusive club. Ladies of the ton clamor to get him into their bed; while gentlemen treat him with wary friendliness aware of his knowledge of their financial status and worth. Derek Craven was born without a name, uncertain of his real age and was basically a nobody who made something of himself. But with all the money he has ever dreamed of, something is still missing - something he cannot put a name to.<br /><br />Her parents call her their miracle baby, born when they have given up hope of ever having one. She was showered with love and given freedom by her elderly parents who wanted her to grow up independent and able to trust in her own judgment. Growing up in the sleepy town of Greenwood Corners, Sara Fielding is a 25-year-old writer whose books deal with the unsavory side of life. With her quiet and kind demeanor, she draws friendship from people from all walks of life. But underneath this country mouse is a woman yearning for adventure.<br /><br />While doing her research for her next novel, Sara ends up saving Derek when she stumbles upon him being beaten by two thugs. Upon learning of his identity, she asks permission to tour his gambling house in order to gain some insight into the gambling world for her next book. Reluctantly, Derek agrees and Sara soon becomes a regular fixture at his club interviewing his employees, including the house prostitutes, whose friendship and admiration she instantly earns.<br /><br />Soon, Sara learns more about Derek and the more she finds out about his past, the more she understands that beneath his rough exterior lays a man who is desperate to overcome his past. Derek on the other hand sees a passionate woman longing for excitement that he knows he can give, and yet unwilling to. While Sara tries to get through the wall that Derek has built around him, he tries to pull back for he feels that he will never be good enough for her. But instead of repelling her by telling her of his lurid past, it serves as a bond that pulls them together.<br /><br />DREAMING OF YOU is a story about two people who couldn't be more different than night and day, brought together by fate with one common bond - both are observers who have distanced themselves from the world. Derek is one of the most complex characters I have read of. He is rough, dangerous and indecent most of the times, yet there is also that kindness and sweetness that draws you to him. He is like a lost soul searching for that unnamed thing that seems to be out of his reach. And his desire to save Sara from himself is so noble that I couldn't help but be sad for both of them. Sara is the perfect answer for the missing puzzle in Derek's life. The way she helps Derek deals with his emotions is so touching.<br /><br />This is a novel that is bound to get you hooked from the very first page. The tender moments shared by the main characters will invoke feelings deep within and is sure to linger in your memory long after you finished the last page.the more she understands that beneath his rough exterior lays a man who is desperate to overcome his past. Derek on the other hand sees a passionate woman longing for excitement that he knows he can give, and yet unwilling to. While Sara tries to get through the wall that Derek has built around him, he tries to pull back for he feels that he will never be good enough for her. But instead of repelling her by telling her of his lurid past, it serves as a bond that pulls them together.     DREAMING OF YOU is a story about two people who couldn't be more different than night and day, brought together by fate with one common bond - both are observers who have distanced themselves from the world. Derek is one of the most complex characters I have read of. He is rough, dangerous and indecent most of the times, yet there is also that kindness and sweetness that draws you to him. He is like a lost soul searching for that unnamed thing that seems to be out of his reach. And his desire to save Sara from himself is so noble that I couldn't help but be sad for both of them. Sara is the perfect answer for the missing puzzle in Derek's life. The way she helps Derek deals with his emotions is so touching.    This is a novel that is bound to get you hooked from the very first page. The tender moments shared by the main characters will invoke feelings deep within and is sure to linger in your memory long after you finished the last page.	2005-03-14
US	15230875	RA6YIYUZQEFI	0380871556	104312998	A Gentle Feuding	Books	3	4	7	N	N	Not Lindsey's best	For nearly half a century, the MacKinnon and Fergusson clan of Scotland have been sworn enemies, but have enjoyed the peace of two years of truce. But that peace was broken when a third party raids and kills one of the MacKinnon clan and all clues point to the Fergusson clan. Provoked by this betrayal, Jamie MacKinnon, current laird of the clan, exacts vengeance by raiding the Fergusson land.<br /><br />And on that day, he stumbles on a beautiful lass while she was bathing in the river and instantly falls for her. Unbeknownst to him, she is none other than Sheena Fergusson, the pride and joy of the Fergusson laird and commonly referred to as the Jewel of the Tower Esk.<br /><br />When after a series of events Sheena falls into Jamie's lap, her father agrees to marry her to him in order to end that longstanding feud. Despite her initial hate for him because of the horrible stories she has heard about him, of how he drove his first wife to kill herself due to his brutal nature, it doesn't take long before she finds herself welcoming his passion. And as she sees the gentle side of him, she starts doubting the stories that she has heard about him. Unfortunately, there is that third party that continues to threaten the trust that they need in order to find happiness with each other.<br /><br />I have read a few of Johanna Lindsey's works, but I must say that this is my least favorite for it didn't leave a lasting impression on me. I only finished reading this two days ago but can't seem to recall any particular scene that stands out for me. While both Sheena and Jamie are likable, I didn't think that the romance was well developed and unlike her other novels (notably the Viking series), I didn't feel like I was being transported into another time. It just doesn't make me want to pick it up again anytime soon which is the reason I'm only giving this 3 stars.<br /><br />For something similar, I would highly recommend Hannah Howell's Amber Flame (re-printed as His Bonnie Bride). This is one of my all-time favorite books.is Bonnie Bride). This is one of my all-time favorite books.	2005-03-09
US	15230875	R1YVQQU470ZUMZ	0380804387	752977287	The Present (Malory Novels (Paperback))	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Not as exciting as the first five books (Malory# 6)	It's Christmas time and once again the whole Malory clan are gathered at Haverston as per family tradition.  And as they start to pour into the parlor, a mysterious present catches everyone's attention, including the baby Malory's.  Unmarked and beautifully wrapped, everyone in the family wonders whom the present is for.  Unable to contain their curiosity, they soon unwrap the package and were surprised to find out that it is a diary, which tells the love story of their ancestors, Christopher and Anastasia Malory.<br /><br />As they read the diary, they learn about how those two got together, how Anastasia was a gypsy (although of noble birth), whose beauty so captivated the Marquis that he wanted her the moment he laid eyes on her. I won't waste my time expounding on their story because I would rather share my thoughts on the whole novel.<br /><br />Although Christopher and Anastasia's story was interesting, I didn't really find it captivating.  I can appreciate that the author's main point in telling us their story is to highlight the problems that Jason and Molly are having - the fact that Molly isn't part of the gentry and therefore continually turns down Jason's marriage proposal for fear of bringing more scandal to the family name. Basically, the diary is supposed to open up Molly's eyes and to tell her that once upon a time, a Malory also married a commoner and came to live happily ever after.  Sorry but I just didn't buy the whole thing.  I mean we're talking about a family who has been laden with scandal for so long that what's another one?  And also, if they only told Regina about their love affair ages ago then she would have come up with a brilliant idea already to cover up the whole thing and make sure that Molly is accepted by the ton.  As noble as Molly's reasons were, it didn't really endear her to me.  Quite the opposite actually, for it left me thinking that she was quite weak in comparison to Amy, Regina and Georgina.<br /><br />If you haven't read the first five Malory novels (Love Only Once, Tender Rebel, Gentle Rogue, The Magic of You, Say You Love Me), you would still be able to follow up on the story as the relationships of the main characters in those books are recounted in The Present.  Now if you have read those books, you would probably share my sentiment in that you will think that half the book is wasted on such repetitions.  I mean, how many more times do we need to read about how the hero and heroine came together?  I'm not saying it's a bad thing, but in comparison to the other Malory novels, I found this one quite dull.  I did enjoy catching up with every one of them and it was good to meet the new additions to the family and, as with all Malory novels, it always delights me to read about James and Anthony.  And in this book, the confrontation between the two was hilarious.  Uncle Tony's in trouble because Georgina heard little Jack swear and she thinks it was all James' fault when in truth Anthony was indirectly responsible.  When you read about it you can't help but laugh.  Got to love James and Tony!<br /><br />Overall, this book isn't all that bad, just not as exciting as its predecessors. The Present is my least favorite of the first six Malory books.  I'm yet to read A Loving Scoundrel, which features Jeremy, but looking forward to it.y novels (Love Only Once, Tender Rebel, Gentle Rogue, The Magic of You, Say You Love Me), you would still be able to follow up on the story as the relationships of the main characters in those books are recounted in The Present.  Now if you have read those books, you would probably share my sentiment in that you will think that half the book is wasted on such repetitions.  I mean, how many more times do we need to read about how the hero and heroine came together?  I'm not saying it's a bad thing, but in comparison to the other Malory novels, I found this one quite dull.  I did enjoy catching up with every one of them and it was good to meet the new additions to the family and, as with all Malory novels, it always delights me to read about James and Anthony.  And in this book, the confrontation between the two was hilarious.  Uncle Tony's in trouble because Georgina heard little Jack swear and she thinks it was all James' fault when in truth Anthony was indirectly responsible.  When you read about it you can't help but laugh.  Got to love James and Tony!    Overall, this book isn't all that bad, just not as exciting as its predecessors. The Present is my least favorite of the first six Malory books.  I'm yet to read A Loving Scoundrel, which features Jeremy, but looking forward to it.	2005-03-09
US	15230875	R2UY5TF8OA4TIV	0380753022	43989638	Gentle Rogue (Malory-Anderson Family)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The Gentleman Pirate (Malory# 3)	If you have read the second Malory book, Tender Rebel, you will recall the first encounter between James and Georgina at the tavern where, even disguised as a boy, she still managed to catch the ex-pirate's eye with her cute derriere and leaves a lasting impression on James.  Towards the end of that book, we saw James off to the West Indies and learn that she has ultimately fallen into his lap when she and her friend seek passage on his ship.<br /><br />In Gentle Rogue, we learn that Georgina is actually an American who came to London in search of her English fianc&eacute;, whom she hasn't seen in six years. Despite her five brothers' objections, she managed to get their old Scottish friend Mac to accompany her only to find out that their search has been in vain, when she learns that her supposed fianc&eacute; is now married with kids. Angered with this discovery, and the fact that she and Mac are practically penniless after being robbed, they ended up working for their passage in the Maiden Anne, not knowing that the ship belonged to James Malory, the man she has remembered as 'the brick wall' who carried out of that tavern like a log. And so she finds herself working as a cabin boy for Maiden Anne's captain only to find out too late in the journey who that captain is.<br /><br />When James Malory finds out who his new 'cabin boy' is, he asks his first mate Connie to pretend they didn't know the truth.  Being the rake that he is, he takes pleasure in seducing Georgina before unmasking her real identity.  And boy, are we in for some real fun!  I love how James continually teases Georgina and her response is just so delightful to read. I was so amused by their pretence.  I had a roaring good time reading about George's 'sickness' and how James tried to 'cure it'.  I laughed so much when she told him \\"You make me ill\\" to which she was referring to the physical desire she feels every time she comes near him.<br /><br />And if reading about the whole trip isn't enough, wait until you meet the Anderson brothers when they arrive in America. They're pretty much the American counterparts of the Malory brothers.  They'll make quite a good story too.<br /><br />This is my favorite out of the whole series.  It's a very entertaining read with very likable characters.thers when they arrive in America. They're pretty much the American counterparts of the Malory brothers.  They'll make quite a good story too.      This is my favorite out of the whole series.  It's a very entertaining read with very likable characters.	2005-03-05
US	15230875	R1R9DV9HBWRLXL	0380756293	758003969	The Magic of You (Malory Novels)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	And you thought the male Malory's were bad? (Malory# 4)	Heaven help the man who catches the eye of a determined and stubborn lady. More's the pity when that woman happens to be the incorrigible, brazen and very confident Amy Malory, who could give her younger uncles and male cousins a run for their money.<br /><br />Just a couple weeks shy from her eighteenth birthday, the Malory men find themselves on the watch again when Amy makes her debut in the ton. Resembling her older cousin Regina with her black hair and cobalt blue eyes, Amy looks set to dazzle the hearts of the gentlemen of the haute ton, however, little does her family know that she has set her cap for Warren Anderson, James Malory's American brother-in-law.  Despite him being twice her age, Amy is determined to make Warren her husband, believing that she could break through the shell that he has shielded himself with ever since he was left heart broken by the woman who ditched him to marry his mortal enemy.  And once she makes her feelings and intentions known to him, Warren finds himself on the run from her. Yet try as hard as he did, his will is no match to her determination for Amy does every trick possible to seduce him, much to the horror of her Uncle James and Tony.<br /><br />Although some people might find Amy's brazenness appalling, I actually found it refreshing and amusing in some ways. It was good to see the tables turned for a change. I liked how confident she is in the belief that she could make Warren smile and laugh once more and heal his wounds.<br /><br />I do think that the romance could have been written better, especially Warren's feelings for Amy. I just felt it wasn't as well-developed as the romance in the first three Malory books and left me a little dissatisfied. A bit more background to their first meeting would have helped because there were times when I found myself wondering what Warren's thoughts were about Amy the first time they met just after his sister, Georgina, married her Uncle James.<br /><br />But all in all, this is an entertaining read helped by the involvement of those reformed rakes James and Anthony. To further add to the entertainment, the way James and Anthony gang up on Warren and make him their verbal punching bag is quite hilarious. Every scene with them is guaranteed to delight you.he involvement of those reformed rakes James and Anthony. To further add to the entertainment, the way James and Anthony gang up on Warren and make him their verbal punching bag is quite hilarious. Every scene with them is guaranteed to delight you.	2005-03-05
US	15230875	R2GG5F9FC1OHUO	0380725711	745711270	Say You Love Me (Malory, No. 5)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	5th Book in the Malory series	Orphaned and penniless after losing their parents in an accident that has become known among the ton as The Tragedy, Kelsey Langton and her younger sister, Jean, came to live with their aunt and uncle.  But when circumstance threatened to leave them all homeless, she feared for her sister's welfare and therefore made the decision to sell herself and become some aristocrat's mistress.<br /><br />When Derek Malory accompanies his cousin, Jeremy, to the House of Eros, the most notorious brothel in London, little did he know that the night was going to cost him the exorbitant amount of twenty five thousand pounds for it was the night that Kelsey was being auctioned off to the highest bidder.  When Derek realizes that the highest bidder was the debauched Lord Ashford, he finds himself outbidding him for fear of the sick things that would befall Kelsey if she ends up with Ashford.  And so Derek inadvertently finds himself with a mistress.  But what Derek doesn't know is that Kelsey is actually part of the gentry.  She, on the other hand, tries to keep her real identity for fear of bringing more shame to her family.  Regardless of this, both find themselves falling in love.<br /><br />Well, the story started out well.  The whole auction plot is quite good and both characters are very likable.  I liked how Derek acts like a real gentleman towards Kelsey, something that you wouldn't expect from a Malory.<br /><br />The only problem is the involvement of the Malory clan wasn't handled properly in that they pretty much take over most part of the book.  Not that I didn't enjoy their appearance, but I just skipped on the parts that recap the story of the previous books' main characters.  But a welcome addition is the insight to Jason Malory's love life.  It was good to know a bit more about Derek's father.  And of course, it is always delightful to see the banter between James and Anthony.  I still enjoyed reading this even though the secondary characters tend to overtake the main ones.	2005-03-05
US	15230875	R2B2CVIOZ45IOQ	0380899531	800832404	Love Only Once: A Malory Novel	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Fall in love with the Malory's (Malory# 1)	Outrageous, outspoken, bold... call them whatever you may like, but the Malorys is one family you would surely fall in love with.  And Johanna Lindsey has written a perfect introduction to them with Love Only Once.  Set in the Regency era, this is the love story of Nicholas Eden, Viscount of Montieth, and Regina Ashton, the most beloved niece of those rakish Malory brothers.<br /><br />On the night that Regina happened to have borrowed Selena Eddington's carriage, Nicholas was out carousing with his friend at the park across from Anthony Mallory's house whom Regina was visiting.  Now Selena is actually Nicholas's current mistress and when he spots the carriage, Nicholas decides to play her a prank by abducting her and locking her up at his home so that she would miss the ball that she had been desperate to attend, as payback for trying to make him jealous.  Too inebriated, he doesn't realize that it wasn't his mistress coming out of the Malory house, but Regina instead.  And so when he finally goes to the ball and sees Selena on the dance floor, he quickly realizes his mistake and bolts back to his home and takes Regina home.<br /><br />Unfortunately for them, word of that incident got out and the news quickly spread within the haute ton the next day and now Regina's virtue is compromised.  And this is where the fun begins as we see Nicholas baited and threatened by Regina's overprotective uncles into marrying her.  The way he was practically kicking and protesting on his way to the altar was amusing.  It was also funny to see Regina trying to defend him against her Uncle Tony and James, even after they were married.<br /><br />And as we are introduced to the Malory family, especially Anthony and James, you can't help but fall in love with them.  I found them so entertaining that I couldn't wait to read their stories.  This is a great and exciting introduction to the Malory series.  Ms Lindsey has done well in setting the pace for the succeeding novels.	2005-03-05
US	15230875	R1DQ0IYGBFWRN5	0380750864	129758344	Tender Rebel	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Uncle Tony's story (Malory# 2)	For those who have read the first Malory book, Love Only Once, and fell in love with Uncle Tony, then you'd surely be delighted with this book, which tells the downfall of Regina's most favorite uncle.<br /><br />Across the border at the Scottish Highlands, Lady Roslynn Chadwick has recently lost her beloved grandfather and has now been left a fortune so obscene that she finds herself on the run from her cousin, Cameron, who intends to get his hands on her money by forcing her to marry him. She seeks shelter from her childhood friend in London, Lady Frances Grenfell, whose help she's also enlisted in finding her a suitable husband so that she may fulfill the promise she's made to her grandfather. And so she makes her debut to the haute ton where she soon meets one of London's most notorious rakehell.<br /><br />On the night that Regina finds herself without an escort to one of the balls she's attending, Anthony, being the overprotective uncle that he is, reluctantly escorts her. But when Roslynn inadvertently comes to his hiding corner out in the garden, his rakish senses went on overdrive and for the first time in many years, he finds himself venturing into the ballroom in pursuit of her.  And when Regina realizes this, she decides to play matchmaker.<br /><br />Anthony is your typical rake - sexy, unnerving, and oh-so-masculine. Roslynn is a feisty Scot who puts him in his place.  The way Anthony 'helps' her find a husband made me laugh.  I liked the part when he lied to her about her prospective husbands in order to discourage her.  The way he exaggerated all their supposed unsuitability was fun to read.  His seduction of her makes for an exciting read too, along with the competition that his brother James provides.  The verbal sparring between him and James, and Regina's husband Nicholas, makes for an entertaining read as well.<br /><br />Just like the first Malory novel, Tender Rebel is a fun, light-hearted read.  Read this and see how a sheltered Scottish millionairess tames one of London's rakes.  You won't be disappointed.s rakes.  You won't be disappointed.	2005-03-05
US	15230875	R3V0MF0Z74VW9	1551666219	82732065	Savage Desire (Mira)	Books	3	11	13	N	N	A happy ending to the saga	I must admit that I jumped from the first book (Sweet Savage Love) straight to this fourth book, without having read Dark Fire and Lost Love, Last Love.  After finishing Savage Desire, I don't think that I missed much of the actions on the first two books, as there are a lot of references from Steve and Ginny's previous relationships while they've been apart.<br /><br />After a long separation from Steve and the twins, Ginny is now back in London trying to rebuild her relationship with them.  When duty calls Steve back to Mexico to settle some old business, Ginny, not wishing to be apart from him once again, insists on accompanying him.  And so they find themselves in another adventure, with past experiences creeping up and haunting them once more, bringing back painful memories.  Will they be ever be able to let go of the past?  Can they ever bring themselves to trust one another and look forward to a happier future?  Will they ever be able to confide with each other without feeling ashamed of what they've done?  These are questions that they face and know they must overcome.  You will notice that most of the chapters end with these sorts of questions.  We know that Steve and Ginny love each other to distraction, yet theirs is a case of \\"can't live together, can't live without each other\\".<br /><br />I liked that we see the more gentle side of Steve in this book.  I appreciated the fact that he was truly sorry for having caused Ginny so much pain and is full of regrets for not being able to protect her from the horrible, degrading things that she has suffered, and now wish to atone for his sins and want to live a quieter life with her and their children.<br /><br />I do wish that Ms Rogers didn't feel the need to put Ginny in the same situation again by having her abducted and raped once more.  From what I gather, she was also subjected to the same fate in the second and third book and I felt that enough is enough.<br /><br />But overall, despite skipping Dark Fires and Lost Love, Last Love, I am glad that Steve and Ginny have finally found the happiness that they deserve.  This was the ending that I was looking for from the first book.s and Lost Love, Last Love, I am glad that Steve and Ginny have finally found the happiness that they deserve.  This was the ending that I was looking for from the first book.	2005-02-16
US	15230875	R3O8JXRZ2RJHKJ	0671880608	457314081	Until You (The Westmoreland Dynasty Saga)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Completes the Westmoreland Series	Readers of Whitney, My Love would have fond memories of Stephen Westmoreland, who played an important role in reuniting Clayton and Whitney.  With his charm and humor, Stephen was a character that fans of Judith McNaught would have been eager to read the story of.  I should know, for I couldn't wait to read Until You after reading Whitney.<br /><br />When Stephen, now the Earl of Langford, inadvertently kills a baron, he discovers that the deceased was about to be married to Charise Lancaster, an American, whose ship was sailing into London the next day.  As the late baron had no other known relatives, Stephen was left with the task of breaking the tragic news to Charise.<br /><br />Unbeknownst to him, Charise has eloped and has left her escort, Sheridan Bromleigh, in a difficult position of breaking the news of her elopement to the baron.  And so when the ship docks in London, both Stephen and Sheridan face each other, with Stephen thinking that she was Charise, but when a crane accidentally hits Sheridan in the head and knocks her unconscious, she awakens to find herself with no memory whatsoever of who she is, and under Stephen's care, who still thinks that she is Charise, and who's still wallowing in guilt over his indirect role in her current position.<br /><br />As the days pass, Stephen finds himself more and more drawn to Sheridan, while Sheridan, believing that Stephen was her fianc&eacute;, finds herself falling in love with him.  But Stephen, who we learn has become jaded and cynical since his heartbreak over Emily, tries to fight his feelings and enlists the help of his family in finding Sheridan a suitable husband.  And so Sheridan faces the Herculean task of fighting for Stephen's love and convincing him that he is the one for her, especially when her real identity threatens to tear them apart.<br /><br />Until You is a delightful novel that showcases Judith McNaught's talent for mixing humor, wit and passion.  Although you may experience some deja vu if you have read her other novels (think of that scene when Stephen goes through the list of suitors for Sheridan, which was also done in Once & Always with Jason and Victoria), or the likeness of her heroines (virginal, spirited ing&eacute;nues, usually orphaned by at least one parent), you cannot help but get sucked into the world that she creates and be enfolded into the love story of Stephen and Sheridan.  It is also such a pleasure to once again meet the beloved characters from her other novels (Clayton & Whitney, Jason & Victoria, Jordan & Alexandra, Nicholas Du Ville), even though I got this feeling that the curtain was closing down on them for some reason.<br /><br />If you have read A Kingdom of Dreams and Whitney, My Love, read Until You, which completes the Westmoreland series.  Even if you do not find it as enchanting as the other two, it is still an enjoyable read.think of that scene when Stephen goes through the list of suitors for Sheridan, which was also done in Once & Always with Jason and Victoria), or the likeness of her heroines (virginal, spirited ingnues, usually orphaned by at least one parent), you cannot help but get sucked into the world that she creates and be enfolded into the love story of Stephen and Sheridan.  It is also such a pleasure to once again meet the beloved characters from her other novels (Clayton & Whitney, Jason & Victoria, Jordan & Alexandra, Nicholas Du Ville), even though I got this feeling that the curtain was closing down on them for some reason.       If you have read A Kingdom of Dreams and Whitney, My Love, read Until You, which completes the Westmoreland series.  Even if you do not find it as enchanting as the other two, it is still an enjoyable read.	2005-02-15
US	15230875	R25OHI6XQ5C7YG	0671776096	869998580	Whitney, My Love (The Westmoreland Dynasty Saga)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Simply delightful	After reading the prequel, A Kingdom of Dreams, I couldn't wait to read the other two Westmoreland books. I have just finished reading Whitney, My Love and I must say that I found the story delightful. I have a copy of the expanded version, which apparently gives a more fulfilling ending than the original version and also gives more depth to the characters.<br /><br />The year is 1816 and we are introduced to Whitney Allison Stone, a spirited 15-year-old, whose antics and impertinence have been the subject of much ridicule in her quiet local town. When her outlandish behavior and obsession with Paul Sevarin causes her father much embarrassment, he sends her to France to live with her aunt and uncle for four years, where we see her grow into a sophisticated, elegant and beautiful young lady, who has captured the heart of many men in the Parisian society. Unbeknownst to her, Clayton Westmoreland, the ninth Duke of Claymore has secretly had his eyes on her since her earlier days in the social circle and has decided to make her his duchess. Thus when she finally comes of age, he puts his plan into action and orders a background check on her, where he uncovers that her father has suffered a financial disaster, which he takes advantage of by asking for his consent to marry her in exchange for a large sum of money.<br /><br />And so after 4 years of being away from England, Whitney finds herself back home now more determined than ever to capture the heart of her childhood love. But trouble starts when she meets Clayton Westland. The Duke, who has decided to pass himself of as her new neighbor in order that he could court her properly and win her affection, starts playing havoc with Whitney's feelings.<br /><br />As with her other novels, Judith McNaught brings life to her characters. One cannot help but laugh at Whitney's outrageousness and applaud her courage. And despite his arrogance (and yes he could be a real jerk at times), you will love Clayton. Sure, there were those two occasions that I found quite frustrating when he assumes the worst of Whitney, but the way he atones for his mistakes really show how much he loves her. As for that rape scene, well I didn't find it as ghastly as I thought it would be, but I've read somewhere that it's been toned down on the expanded version, which is the one I have. But based on the reviews, everyone obviously has different opinions about it.<br /><br />Moving on, some of the highlights of this book are the reference to the Westmoreland tradition that was told in AKOD, when the Duke presents his Duchess to his people. It made me smile as I was picturing the same scene with Royce and Jennifer. I also enjoyed the reference about how Royce abducted Jennifer from her home. Another thing is Clayton's brother, Stephen. Every scene with him is delightful and I can't wait to start Until You to see how he fares, especially after having his heart broken.<br /><br />I do wish that Clayton and Whitney's meeting in Paris were fleshed out a bit more considering the length of the novel. Reading a few lines where Clayton recalls how he first met Whitney way before the masquerade ball when they finally talk left me a little dissatisfied. I would have loved to read more about Clayton's reactions and how smitten he was with her to make him decide to marry her.<br /><br />I must also mention that after 6 books, I'm beginning to think that the characters in JM's books are all prone to throat infection in that they tend to 'whisper achingly' so much or feel that 'aching lump' in their throat so often that I feel like they need a good dose of antibiotics.<br /><br />But overall, I found this story utterly delightful. It made me laugh just like JM's other novels, but I must admit that I preferred AKOD and have a softer spot for Royce and Jennifer.I found quite frustrating when he assumes the worst of Whitney, but the way he atones for his mistakes really show how much he loves her. As for that rape scene, well I didn't find it as ghastly as I thought it would be, but I've read somewhere that it's been toned down on the expanded version, which is the one I have. But based on the reviews, everyone obviously has different opinions about it.     Moving on, some of the highlights of this book are the reference to the Westmoreland tradition that was told in AKOD, when the Duke presents his Duchess to his people. It made me smile as I was picturing the same scene with Royce and Jennifer. I also enjoyed the reference about how Royce abducted Jennifer from her home. Another thing is Clayton's brother, Stephen. Every scene with him is delightful and I can't wait to start Until You to see how he fares, especially after having his heart broken.     I do wish that Clayton and Whitney's meeting in Paris were fleshed out a bit more considering the length of the novel. Reading a few lines where Clayton recalls how he first met Whitney way before the masquerade ball when they finally talk left me a little dissatisfied. I would have loved to read more about Clayton's reactions and how smitten he was with her to make him decide to marry her.     I must also mention that after 6 books, I'm beginning to think that the characters in JM's books are all prone to throat infection in that they tend to 'whisper achingly' so much or feel that 'aching lump' in their throat so often that I feel like they need a good dose of antibiotics.     But overall, I found this story utterly delightful. It made me laugh just like JM's other novels, but I must admit that I preferred AKOD and have a softer spot for Royce and Jennifer.	2005-02-09
US	15230875	R3ITBL3ION9DWL	0671795538	936532040	Perfect (The Paradise series)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	As captivating as Paradise	Any romance novel buff would be sucked into reading a story about a couple who falls in love, gets torn apart and then overcome insurmountable obstacles to live happily ever after. And Perfect is exactly just that.<br /><br />Zachary Benedict Stanhope was born into a rich family. He had the looks and grace that comes with the breeding, not to mention the arrogance that characterizes the Stanhope males. But when a tragic incident led to him being banished from his home, he found himself working at a Hollywood studio, where he was soon discovered and launched into stardom to eventually become an academy award winning actor/director.<br /><br />Julie Mathison is an orphan who grew up being thrown from one home to another. Thus, at the age of 11, she was an illiterate who's never had any parental guidance and spent more time in the streets learning how to hot-wire cars until a kind psychiatrist takes an interest in her and finds Julie a home with some relatives in the obscure town of Keaton in Texas.  For the first time in her life, Julie is happy and vows to make herself perfect to show her gratitude to the Mathisons who gave her all the love and kindness she's always craved for.<br /><br />More than a decade later and these two cross paths by accident, when Zach, who was wrongfully convicted of murdering his wife, was forced to kidnap Julie when his escape from prison didn't go according to plan. Soon, trouble intensifies when Julie finds herself a willing hostage, and Zack develops a feeling of protectiveness over her, something he's never felt for a woman before. So when Zack sends her home, she did her utmost to convince the whole world of his innocence. But when things she starts discovering cause her to doubt Zack's innocence and mental health, she ends up betraying him, thus causing both of them much anguish and unhappiness.<br /><br />As with the other four books that I have previously read (AKOD, Something Wonderful, Once & Always, Paradise), this book made me laugh and cry. It just goes to show the magic that Judith McNaught weaves, as I really felt drawn to the characters. Perfect is just so wonderfully told, I loved it and found myself unable to put it down. There are some pretty funny scenes like the movie session they had, with Julie ignoring Zack's movies and Zack criticizing every movie and actor she's picked. Then there are those heartbreaking moments - like Zack's letter, the airport scene - that brought tears to my eyes. And although I wanted to strangle Julie for betraying Zack, I couldn't help but feel sorry for how she's suffered because of it.<br /><br />I've noticed that some readers mentioned feeling a little nauseated about the whole Barbra Streisand dance sequence, well I must agree it was a little too much, but I actually enjoyed them dancing to Jose Feliciano's \\"Light My Fire\\" and have been listening to that song over and over again since.<br /><br />Another incentive to reading this is Matt and Meredith Farrell's re-appearance. For those who have read Paradise and found it hard to say goodbye to them, you will truly enjoy their part in this book. It was so good to see again just how much they love each other.<br /><br />Despite a couple of quibbles, namely the sudden disappearance of Paul Richardson and Dominic Sandini, the lack of participation of Greg, whom Julie was almost affianced to, Perfect is still a great novel, almost as great as Paradise. Read this and enjoy.o show the magic that Judith McNaught weaves, as I really felt drawn to the characters. Perfect is just so wonderfully told, I loved it and found myself unable to put it down. There are some pretty funny scenes like the movie session they had, with Julie ignoring Zack's movies and Zack criticizing every movie and actor she's picked. Then there are those heartbreaking moments - like Zack's letter, the airport scene - that brought tears to my eyes. And although I wanted to strangle Julie for betraying Zack, I couldn't help but feel sorry for how she's suffered because of it.    I've noticed that some readers mentioned feeling a little nauseated about the whole Barbra Streisand dance sequence, well I must agree it was a little too much, but I actually enjoyed them dancing to Jose Feliciano's \\"Light My Fire\\" and have been listening to that song over and over again since.     Another incentive to reading this is Matt and Meredith Farrell's re-appearance. For those who have read Paradise and found it hard to say goodbye to them, you will truly enjoy their part in this book. It was so good to see again just how much they love each other.    Despite a couple of quibbles, namely the sudden disappearance of Paul Richardson and Dominic Sandini, the lack of participation of Greg, whom Julie was almost affianced to, Perfect is still a great novel, almost as great as Paradise. Read this and enjoy.	2005-02-09
US	15230875	RMB2OLIOUIEAC	0671776800	218610853	Paradise (The Paradise series)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Truly touching and captivating	Paradise is a contemporary novel and the fourth book of Judith Mcnaught that I have read. After reading the glowing reviews here, not to mention my delight with A Kingdom of Dreams, Something Wonderful and Once & Always, I was eager to read more of her work and find out why this book is the highest rated of all her novels, and now I understand why...<br /><br />Meredith Bancroft was born with a silver spoon in her mouth. As the daughter of Phillip Bancroft, the president of the most exclusive department store in Chicago, she has everything that a girl could want, at least everything that money could buy - for Meredith is insecure with her looks, hardly has any friends and lives a pretty sheltered life under the watchful eye of her manipulative and overbearing father. But four years later and the 'ugly duckling' turn into a swan. Those who have treated her as if she were invisible are now eager to befriend her. Yet, her father still expects her to do his bidding and follow his orders. But everything will change when she finally defies him.<br /><br />Matthew Farrell comes from the lower class town of Edmunton, Indiana. He works in a steel mill five days a week, as a mechanic for the remaining two, and lives with his sister and alcoholic father.  But Matthew has a burning ambition to succeed.  Thus, after accepting a job in Venezuela that will see him with a large sum of money after two years, he finds himself at a party in Chicago one night where he meets Meredith, and where he dared to reach for the moon.  And so begins a romance that will result in a decade of hate, deceit, doubts and misunderstandings.<br /><br />When that chance meeting see them married a few weeks later, they make a pact to get to know each other and make their marriage work.  Yet Phillip Bancroft never gave them the chance, for as soon as Matt left for Venezuela, he did everything in his power to drive them apart and so their ill-fated marriage ended up in divorce.<br /><br />Fast forward to eleven years and Matt is now an industrial tycoon, with women throwing themselves at his feet, while Meredith is an executive at Bancroft and Company and engaged to Parker Reynolds, the man she adored as a child.  When their paths cross once again, they find themselves dealing with suppressed pains caused by each other's 'betrayal'.<br /><br />If there ever was a couple that you would most like to find everlasting happiness - Matt and Meredith would be them. Theirs is a story that's guaranteed to pull at your heartstrings. You can truly feel the love they have for each other and the agony that they have gone through during the years they've been apart. There are so many twists and turns in the story, that just when you think that things are finally working out, another obstacle will drive them apart. The author's talents shine in this book. She brings life to the characters that they almost jump out of the page. I laughed and cried, and in the end, I didn't want the story to end at all.<br /><br />Don't let the length of the novel put you off - this book is fast paced and will hold your interest from the very start. Reading about Meredith's childhood will make you appreciate her more. And even though I wish that the same emphasis were done with Matt's childhood, I didn't think that the lack of it detracted from this book at all.<br /><br />This truly is a special story and one that I will read over and over again. I can't wait to read Perfect, as I know that Matt and Meredith make their appearance in it.dustrial tycoon, with women throwing themselves at his feet, while Meredith is an executive at Bancroft and Company and engaged to Parker Reynolds, the man she adored as a child.  When their paths cross once again, they find themselves dealing with suppressed pains caused by each other's 'betrayal'.      If there ever was a couple that you would most like to find everlasting happiness - Matt and Meredith would be them. Theirs is a story that's guaranteed to pull at your heartstrings. You can truly feel the love they have for each other and the agony that they have gone through during the years they've been apart. There are so many twists and turns in the story, that just when you think that things are finally working out, another obstacle will drive them apart. The author's talents shine in this book. She brings life to the characters that they almost jump out of the page. I laughed and cried, and in the end, I didn't want the story to end at all.      Don't let the length of the novel put you off - this book is fast paced and will hold your interest from the very start. Reading about Meredith's childhood will make you appreciate her more. And even though I wish that the same emphasis were done with Matt's childhood, I didn't think that the lack of it detracted from this book at all.     This truly is a special story and one that I will read over and over again. I can't wait to read Perfect, as I know that Matt and Meredith make their appearance in it.	2005-01-28
US	15230875	R32U19JHVFML77	0671737635	931033724	Something Wonderful (The Sequels series)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	An apt title for a really wonderful story	While on his way to his grandmother's country estate, Jordan Townsende, the Duke of Hawthorne, is attacked by thieves then rescued by a knight who suddenly comes out of nowhere.  When the knight is injured after killing one of the thieves, Jordan carries his rescuer into the local inn, and to his surprise, he discovers that his knight in rusty armor is actually a young girl.  Unfortunately for Jordan, that 'young girl' is actually 17-year-old Alexandra Lawrence, whose virtue is now compromised.<br /><br />When Alexandra's mother finds out, she blackmails Jordan into marrying Alex, much to their shock.  Jordan is furious but feels sorry for Alex, as he knows that he's ruined her chance of finding a husband, and therefore he reluctantly agrees to marry her.  Alex tries to change his mind, as she doesn't want to get married especially to someone who is disenchanted with life and doesn't share her love and enthusiasm for it.  Still the marriage takes place and by then, Alex fancies herself in love with Jordan, whom she describes as noble and beautiful, while Jordan finds himself more and more fascinated by his bride, whose laugh and exuberance is infectious, and whose innocence and naivet&eacute; warms his heart.<br /><br />However, before they even had a chance to make their marriage work, Jordan finds himself captured in France and presumed dead in England. Alex grieves for Jordan until she is shattered by the realization that the man she fell in love with was nothing but an illusion, and that he was not the noble man that she thought him to be.  Meanwhile, while imprisoned, it was the thought of seeing Alex again that kept Jordan going, not knowing that his naive and artless wife has now been transformed into a sophisticated lady with the help of his grandmother, and is now the toast of the ton.  So when he finally escapes, he was shocked by the news that Alex was about to marry his cousin, Tony.<br /><br />With these discoveries, we see them suffer the consequences of disillusionment and betrayal, while trying at the same time to hang on to the dream that they can make it work.  And some scenes are almost heartbreaking, like when Filbert tells Jordan how Alex has suffered as a child from her father's lack of affection or how, when she thought Jordan dead, she had stared for hours at his portrait and cried.<br /><br />Despite a couple of issues - namely the inconsistency with the dates where Jordan was supposed to have been gone for only 15 months, yet some scenes mention how they didn't know each other 2 years before (haven't they only known each other for two weeks before he was shipped to France?), and the lack of details on Jordan's capture, I really loved this book.  Alexandra's innocence, optimism and wit are captivating and I loved seeing the effect and transformation it had on Jordan.  This book made me laugh and cry and I truly loved it.l, while trying at the same time to hang on to the dream that they can make it work.  And some scenes are almost heartbreaking, like when Filbert tells Jordan how Alex has suffered as a child from her father's lack of affection or how, when she thought Jordan dead, she had stared for hours at his portrait and cried.      Despite a couple of issues - namely the inconsistency with the dates where Jordan was supposed to have been gone for only 15 months, yet some scenes mention how they didn't know each other 2 years before (haven't they only known each other for two weeks before he was shipped to France?), and the lack of details on Jordan's capture, I really loved this book.  Alexandra's innocence, optimism and wit are captivating and I loved seeing the effect and transformation it had on Jordan.  This book made me laugh and cry and I truly loved it.	2005-01-24
US	15230875	R35GL5AWPG4XTV	0380385880	75448761	Shanna	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Not quite 5 stars compared to her other novels	Shanna Trahern has lived a spoilt life in a Caribbean paradise and is the sole heiress to her father's massive fortune.  Yet it is this wealth that causes a rift between the father and daughter, as Orlan Trahern desires for more.  He longs for the acceptance of the aristocrats, and he means to do it through Shanna.  Sensing a lack of interest in her part to marry, he gives her an ultimatum - either to find herself a titled husband in a year, or face marrying any man of his choice.  And so, wanting to outwit her father, she strikes a deal with Ruark Beauchamp, from an aristocratic family in London, a man convicted of murder and condemned to hang, and who will serve Shanna's purpose well.<br /><br />When Ruark hears her case, he was elated - for Shanna's beauty so blinded him that any chance to be with her was worth the hanging.  He agrees to her request in the condition that they spend their wedding night together and consummate their marriage.<br /><br />And so a deal was struck but shortly after their wedding vows were made, Shanna breaks her promise and Ruark vows that should fate be kind enough to let him live, he will seek her out and carry their bargain through.<br /><br />Once again, Kathleen Woodiwiss proves her talent for superb storytelling, showing her ability to breathe life into her characters and ability to captivate the readers with her vivid descriptions of each scene, thus transporting us to another time.  But I must say that I felt she got a little carried away with Shanna, as the novel is too lengthy.<br /><br />The plot is good and I absolutely loved Ruark but I found it hard to relate to Shanna in the beginning, as she seemed so spoilt and selfish and undeserving of Ruark, who is patient, charming and funny.  I was trying hard to put it down to the fact that she lacked a mother's guidance and was spoilt by her father, but I still struggled to convince myself.  That's why I was really glad when she finally matures towards the end and redeems herself.<br /><br />This is the fourth book of hers that I have read and as much as I enjoyed reading this, I didn't find it hard to put down unlike The Flame and The Flower, The Wolf and the Dove and A Rose in Winter and found myself skipping a lot of pages (quite a lot actually), which is why I'm only giving it 4 stars (well, 4 and a half really).th book of hers that I have read and as much as I enjoyed reading this, I didn't find it hard to put down unlike The Flame and The Flower, The Wolf and the Dove and A Rose in Winter and found myself skipping a lot of pages (quite a lot actually), which is why I'm only giving it 4 stars (well, 4 and a half really).	2005-01-22
US	15230875	R3AWO7Z2Y1UKR2	0380756277	641921275	Prisoner of My Desire (Avon Historical Romance)	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Not for the faint-hearted	Fearing for her mother's life, Lady Rowena Belleme has no choice but to agree to her evil stepbrother Gilbert's wish: she must marry the lecherous old lord of Kirkburough and produce an heir, so that he could control the old man's lands and increase his own lands and army in order to take on his enemy, the Lord of Fulkhurst. However, when the old lord dies before the marriage was consummated, Gilbert covers up the death and quickly orders his men to find a man with similar physical characteristics for Rowena to copulate with.<br /><br />Enter Warrick de Chaville, the Lord of Fulkhurst himself. When Gilbert's men mistake him for a serf, he finds himself held captive, chained on a bed and forced to procreate with Rowena. Known as the Dragon of the North, with a reputation for exacting swift retribution to anyone who crosses him, he vows to make her pay once he escapes. So when he gets his chance, he comes back to raze Kirkburough to the ground and takes Rowena prisoner and subjects her to the same fate.<br /><br />Some people have expressed disgust on the subject of rape on this book. But if you really read the book, Rowena was blackmailed into coupling with Warrick, and that scene was written in a way that doesn't come across as disgusting. And when the table was turned, Warrick doesn't really hurt Rowena physically, as his intention is actually to make her want him so bad and this is how the scenes are depicted. And underneath his gruff exterior, we slowly see a man capable of giving love, as we see him softens towards Rowena. And it is most interesting to see all the tender things he does for her.<br /><br />As mentioned by the other readers, the love scenes is a little kinky and involves a little bit of bondage (but in no way offensive), and if you can get past this, then this book is not bad at all.	2005-01-10
US	15230875	R293Q7W5Y1P8E1	0380762595	742024238	Until Forever (Avon Historical Romance)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Different and cleverly written	When prim and proper history professor Roseleen White acquires an ancient Viking sword known as \\"Blooddrinker's Curse\\", she has no idea the power that she now holds over a proud and mighty Viking warrior for unbeknownst to her, Thorn Blooddrinker, the sword's owner, is cursed to obey the command of any woman who holds the sword.  Soon, she learns that by holding the sword, she can make the Viking appear.<br /><br />Now Thorn is not too pleased with Roseleen's summoning, as it seems to occur each time he is occupied with other things, such as in the midst of fighting with his brother or partaking in Odin's banquet in Valhalla.  Yet Roseleen perplexes him, as unlike the other women who have previously owned his sword, she isn't interested in using his power for any greedy purpose nor is she interested in being his lover.  All she seems interested in is getting first hand information about the battle between the Normans and Saxons to assist with her research.  So he agrees to travel back in time with her and soon find themselves falling passionately in love.<br /><br />Until Forever is a cleverly written novel, combining a passionate love story with time travel. It is fun to read and sure to delight romance readers looking for something different. Thorn's fascination with all things modern is fun to read. His curiosity with modern plumbing, electricity and even a lipstick had me laughing.  I also liked Roseleen's transformation from a seemingly mousy professor who has been burned in the only relationship she's ever had, to a passionate woman who has hopelessly fallen in love with Thorn.  The adventures they share are well described that you get a vivid picture of the scenes and places they're supposed to be at.<br /><br />Of course, as with all romance novels, they are faced with the ultimate challenge - Thorn needs to convince Roseleen that he is happy to remain with her, while she knows that the only way to release him from his curse is by giving him back his sword and letting him return to Valhalla for good, thus sacrificing her own happiness.<br /><br />The ending is basically a draw-your-own-conclusion type of thing.  Now don't get me wrong, there isn't anything wrong about it.  It is actually quite clever and unexpected and had me grinning after I finished the book.<br /><br />Other time-travel romance books I have really enjoyed are Jude Deveraux's \\"A Knight in Shining Armor\\" and Flora Speer's \\"A Time to Love Again\\". Both are so much better than this.turn to Valhalla for good, thus sacrificing her own happiness.     The ending is basically a draw-your-own-conclusion type of thing.  Now don't get me wrong, there isn't anything wrong about it.  It is actually quite clever and unexpected and had me grinning after I finished the book.    Other time-travel romance books I have really enjoyed are Jude Deveraux's \\"A Knight in Shining Armor\\" and Flora Speer's \\"A Time to Love Again\\". Both are so much better than this.	2005-01-07
US	15230875	RITHOP5ATFBDJ	0061031755	327922976	The Promise in a Kiss (A Cynster Christmas Special)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Enchanting (but disappointing in one aspect)	This is the enchanting story of the pair who gave birth to the Cynster dynasty - Helena and Sebastian.<br /><br />For years, Helena has lived a sheltered life in a French convent school.  Then one unforgettable night, Sebastian Cynster, Duke of St. Ives, falls at her feet after being mesmerized by her beauty.  Helena in return, just stares back at him, taking in his good looks.  Neither asks for each other's names, but shares a magical kiss that holds every promise of a wonderful future.<br /><br />Seven years later, they cross paths again, this time in London, and both recognize each other and remember that special kiss.  Helena is told that Sebastian is dangerous and therefore decides to stay away from him.  Yet unbeknown to her, Sebastian, despite previously declaring to remain a bachelor, has recently decided to marry and had set his eyes on her.<br /><br />Of course, Sebastian is a true Cynster - arrogant, commanding, and so darn sexy.  Helena is strong-willed, proud and a perfect match for him.  In fact, they remind me of none other than Devil and Honoria.  The sparring, battle of wills and sensual games they play are captivating.  And the sexual tension is great.<br /><br />There are some dramatic elements thrown in as well.  The blackmail and threats made against Helena by her conniving guardian leads to a swashbuckling climax.  Another thing I enjoyed about this book is the appearance of other Cynster family and connections like Sebastian's only sister, Augusta, his brothers, Lady Osbaldestone and we read a little bit about Almira, Charles' mother.<br /><br />However, as much as I enjoyed this novel, I cannot give it 5 stars for the mere fact that I have already read the other Cynster books, and therefore find it rather difficult to accept how Sebastian could have cheated on Helena.  Sebastian loved Helena so much - in fact, more than his own life - that I kept asking myself HOW and WHY?  As a stand alone book, I wouldn't have hesitated to give this 5 stars, but as it is, Laurens' didn't give us an acceptable reason as to Sebastian's infidelity, except for a brief mention in Devil's Bride that he felt sorry for Richard's mother. Why couldn't she have written instead that Sebastian was drugged?  This is my only gripe in this novel that his whole infidelity wasn't fleshed out or even mentioned.<br /><br />As romantic and enchanting as this novel is, I have to deduct 1 star, but overall, this is a good book.ve us an acceptable reason as to Sebastian's infidelity, except for a brief mention in Devil's Bride that he felt sorry for Richard's mother. Why couldn't she have written instead that Sebastian was drugged?  This is my only gripe in this novel that his whole infidelity wasn't fleshed out or even mentioned.      As romantic and enchanting as this novel is, I have to deduct 1 star, but overall, this is a good book.	2005-01-02
US	15230875	RGTRKN0NIU5OP	0671737619	535195561	A Kingdom of Dreams (The Westmoreland Dynasty Saga)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A real treasure	Abducted from the abbey that she has been in for the last couple of years, Lady Jennifer Merrick, a feisty Scottish beauty, finds herself a captive of Royce Westmoreland, along with her stepsister, Brenna.  Known as \\"The Wolf\\", he is feared and loathed by his enemies.  However, he finally meets his match in Jennifer.  Stubborn and fearless, she is the one person who, even when she yields, makes him feel like he is the one who's been conquered.<br /><br />This novel is funny, poignant, romantic and heart-warming.  I thought Jennifer's escapades were entertaining, and her aunt's comments also made me laugh.  But nothing beats that part when she talks to Royce as if he were a kid - that \\"Forty is this many\\" scene was so hilarious it took me a while to read it, as I couldn't stop laughing.  And the romance is one of the best I've read of.  The first time that they made love and Royce told her he was sorry, I thought it was so considerate and sweet of him.  But nothing beats the tournament part.  I don't want to divulge the whole plot as I don't want to ruin it for other readers, but let me say that the scenes where Royce salutes Jennifer, Stefan runs into Jennifer's chamber ordering her to come out onto the battlefield and Jennifer then kneeling to Royce and swearing her fealty to him in front of thousands of people including her Scottish clan, those scenes brought tears to my eyes.  I was practically speechless.  And I cannot say enough how happy I was when Jennifer realized that she finally got the \\"kingdom of dreams\\" that she dreamt of as a child - a kingdom where she felt loved by her husband and her people.<br /><br />I really loved this book and highly recommend it.  This is romance at its best.  There are many heart wrenching scenes and simply beautiful tender moments.  The scenes are well-described that everything seemed so vivid.  The characters are so likable.  I felt every single emotion they were going through - their pain, confusion and happiness.<br /><br />This is the first novel I've read by Judith McNaught and this definitely won't be the last.vel I've read by Judith McNaught and this definitely won't be the last.	2005-01-02
US	15230875	R1F7X63NLNVBJJ	0380762560	753332767	Surrender My Love (Haardrad Family)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Not as good as the first two, but still entertaining	This is the story of Garrick and Brenna's first child, Selig the Blessed, who we remember as the stillborn child who was \\"raised\\" from the dead in Fires of Winter and as the brother who also came back from the dead in Hearts Aflame.  Now in this book, Johanna Lindsey has decided to put his life in danger once more, when he was ambushed on the way to East Anglia on a mission for King Alfred.  Although he survives this, he ends up being mistaken for a spy and taken as a prisoner by Lady Erika of Gronwood, where he was nearly lashed to death.  When his sister Kristen comes to his rescue, he asks her to take Erika as a hostage in order to exact his revenge.<br /><br />Once again, we see the closeness of the family.  We are also reminded of how dangerous Kristen could be when Erika incurs the wrath of her anger.  If there is one family you wouldn't want to mess with, they're one of them - if you mess with one of them, you have to face the rest of the family.<br /><br />Now unlike the heroines of the first two books, Erika came across as too timid.  Although I didn't expect her to be as spirited as Brenna and Kristen, I wish that she had a bit more fire in her.  Sure she felt guilty, but she didn't even try her hardest to defend herself when she was chained.  As for Selig, too much emphasis was given on his unbelievably good looks, his pain and recovery, yet not much depth was given to his character.  And in comparison with the first two books, the romance between Erika and Selig isn't as well developed.  I didn't find the interaction as exciting.  The author could have fleshed out the romance part a bit more in my opinion.<br /><br />But if you have read the first two books, this would still be an entertaining read.  For me, the highlight of the book is not so much the romance, but the involvement of Garrick and Brenna, Royce and Kristen and their friends and family.	2004-12-21
US	15230875	R1EPO3RJ7T7F1Q	0380757478	282925652	Fires of Winter (Haardrad Family)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	First book in the Viking trilogy	Lady Brenna Carmarham, a Celtic beauty raised with the fighting skills of a boy, is taken captive by the Vikings, when Anselm Haardrad, who tricked her father by offering his second son to marriage, raided her home.  Captured and enslaved, Brenna vows vengeance for her people and promised never to be owned by anyone, most especially Garrick Haardrad, to whom she was given.<br /><br />As a powerful chieftain's son, Garrick is used to commanding people.  After a long voyage trading overseas, he comes home to find Brenna in his bed and learns that she is a gift from his father's.  Trouble starts as he finds himself incapable of getting her to submit to his will and this is where the battle starts to see who enslaves whom.<br /><br />I found this story very engaging and the characters interesting.  Brenna's continuous refusal to accept her status of a slave causes the many clashes between her and Garrick.  It is exciting to read as you get to see a real battle of wills.  While some may be put off by Brenna's constant anger and Garrick's cold-heartedness, we are given good reasons for these - Brenna has known freedom all her life and found it hard to adjust to her new life, while Garrick was hurt by a woman who left him for a wealthy man, which also explains why he has sought wealth for himself at such a young age and why he feels such hate for women in general.  It is also this hate that makes the story interesting, as you find yourself fascinated by his actions while he continues to deny his feelings.  The way he could be so gentle towards Brenna is a treasure to read.  And towards the end, you will appreciate him more as you learn how deeply he cares for her and how much he loves his son.<br /><br />Some readers commented on the brutality in the book such as the treatment of women, murder, pillaging, but I think you have to keep an open mind and consider the period that this was based on.  Such things were normal occurrence in those times.  Men ruled over women.  And the fact that they did is all the more reason why it's good to see tough heroes soften towards women and eventually fall in love.<br /><br />You will not be bored with this book and will fall in love with Garrick and Brenna.  You can read more of them on Hearts Aflame and Surrender My Love.is all the more reason why it's good to see tough heroes soften towards women and eventually fall in love.    You will not be bored with this book and will fall in love with Garrick and Brenna.  You can read more of them on Hearts Aflame and Surrender My Love.	2004-12-20
US	15230875	R3LFNW3TOCTD3W	0380899825	801007174	Hearts Aflame (Haardrad Family)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	4 and a half stars - second in the Viking trilogy	This is a great follow up to Fires of Winter, which I really loved.<br /><br />Beautiful Kristen Haardrad longs for adventure and the chance to find a husband.  She steals away on her brother's ship and hides in the cargo only to find her a part of a raid gone wrong, when they were captured by the men of Royce of Wyndhurst, a powerful Saxon lord.  When Kristen's disguise was uncovered, Royce orders her to work in his hall.  Just like her mother, Kristen refuses to accept that she's a slave, which angers Royce.  To add more trouble, both become besotted with each other.<br /><br />Kristen is one of the strongest heroines you will come across.  She is brazen, willful and completely unafraid to go after what she wants.  Royce is handsome, hot-tempered and commanding.  Once Kristen set her eyes on him, you know that you're in for some pretty spicy romance.<br /><br />Another plus to the story is the involvement of Kristen's family members and friends.  We read a brief recap of Garrick and Brenna's love story and reaffirmation of the continuing passion in their relationship.  And we are introduced to a whole lot of sexy Viking men who will make you laugh.  I mean, how often do you read about magnificent Vikings with god-like looks who have been captured, chained and what not, and yet still manage to retain their sense of humor? Every scene with them and Kristen's family is guaranteed to entertain you.<br /><br />The plot has the same \\"master and slave\\" theme as its predecessor but this book is funnier, although I am in the minority, as I actually liked Fires of Winter better.  Maybe I missed something so I will have to read both books again in the future to see why.	2004-12-20
US	15230875	R1LIUSPFBVEC7J	0060002050	10081740	On a Wicked Dawn (Cynster Novels)	Books	2	6	7	N	N	This novel just dragged	I knew that this book would be very similar to Amanda's story, but having read most of the Cynster novels, I couldn't resist reading about how Amelia's story goes.  Well, I certainly agree with the other reviews that this book is too long and should have been at least 150 pages shorter.  The author spent too much time describing the love scenes that they just became boring and I ended up flicking past those pages.  And what's with Luc in this story?  He was much more interesting to read about in On A Wild Night than on this.  There really wasn't much to hold this story after the wedding.<br /><br />I have to say that the most notable part in this book is the scene on their wedding day, after the newlyweds left.  I was ecstatic when Devil finally says I love you to Honoria.  Finally, after almost seven years!  I would have been happy if the book ended right there and then. If I ever picked up this book again, it would only be to read that part once more.<br /><br />I think two and a half star is pretty generous, but that's only because of Devil and Honoria's appearance.	2004-12-18
US	15230875	R2YM4HSZ2LGDPU	0380812037	942909588	On a Wild Night (Cynster Novels)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	3 & a half stars just for the appearance of The Bar Cynster	Having been out for several years, the twins were bored and desperate to find a suitable husband, and therefore have decided to take matters into their own hands.  Amanda Cynster's story takes her into places where no lady of her kind would have dared venture into.  After accepting a dare she couldn't back out of, Amanda is rescued by Martin Fulbridge, the Earl of Dexter.  It goes without saying that Amanda is a typical Cynster - stubborn, haughty, and wilful; while Martin is pretty much like her male cousins, whom she has based her standards on.  Intrigued by a scandal concerning his past and having decided after their first meeting that she wanted him to be her husband, Amanda works on seducing Martin, who eventually falls for her charms.<br /><br />The interaction between the two main characters isn't as exciting to read about.  The lengthy love scenes were rather monotonous that I found myself skipping those pages.  If there was one thing I enjoyed the most, it was those scenes involving Lady Osbaldestone and The Bar Cynster.  I laughed and laughed on that part when Martin went to see Devil.  That part was so well written that it was almost like being there and actually seeing the reactions of the 6 cousins.  It was just brilliant!  For that part alone, I'm giving this book 3 and a half stars.	2004-12-18
US	15230875	R2FZOJZE0B0UXZ	0380005255	833024518	The Flame and the Flower (The Birmingham Family)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Another good novel from Woodiwiss	I really loved this book.  I know it isn't politically correct, however, this is also fiction and should be simply regarded as a story of how two people overcome everything to live happily ever after.<br /><br />Personally, I think that Brandon was so besotted with Heather that, even after finding out the truth about her, he really wanted to make her feel the same.  As for Heather, she does admit that she found him physically attractive and she did feel something when Brandon asked her to kiss him, but I think she was still in shock with what happened at her aunt's brother's house, that all she could think about was how to escape Brandon.<br /><br />I also didn't think that Brandon was that mean to her after they were married.  Sure, he blamed her for it and vowed that he would never treat her like a wife, however, try as he did, he couldn't.  Even when he's said some things to hurt her, I believe it was more out of his fear of the unknown as he knew deep inside he was falling in love with Heather.  And we do see this as the story progresses.  Brandon practically put Heather on a pedestal.  As for Heather being weak, let me say that she was a nave 17-year-old, who has been oppressed by her aunt for the last couple of years, and hasn't felt loved since her father died.  At such a young age, and in that era, I'm quite sure that she was portrayed well - a sweet and innocent girl.<br /><br />This book really held my interest and I simply couldn't put it down.  The story and the characters are perfectly developed, the pacing is just right and there isn't a dull moment.  This is the third Woodiwiss book that I have read, and after enjoying The Wolf and the Dove and A Rose in Winter, I'm looking forward to reading her other novels.	2004-12-17
US	15230875	R39V9TPMT6SPRU	0553583565	40003658	Stealing Heaven (Medievals)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Love conquers all	This is a very poignant novel about how two people, bound by duties to their countries, overcome everything to find the ultimate happiness.<br /><br />Marcus of Anglesmore finds himself betrothed to the daughter of Llygad ap Madoc, former leader of the rebellious Welsh, as ordered by King Edward, for the purpose of binding Wales to England.  In London, we see Marcus climbing into a garden hoping to see his future bride.  He encounters a beautiful woman, and thinking she was Genith, kisses her.  In truth, the woman was Nesta, the elder sister, infamously known by all as King Edward's mistress.  Upon learning the truth the following day, Marcus was astonished and more so by the fact that he has fallen under the spell of Nesta.<br /><br />As the story progresses, we see these two people greatly drawn to one another, but both feel the weight of their obligations to their countries. The fact that both try to stay true to their beliefs and hold on to their loyalty, yet unable to deny their feelings for each other is what makes the story complex.  Some of the scenes are heartbreaking that I almost cried, especially when reading of Marcus' pain.<br /><br />I would have liked to read a detailed explanation of Nesta's involvement with King Edward and how she became known as 'the King's whore', rather than the brief exchange they had towards the end and her previous admission to Marcus. I just found it quite vague - at one point I was debating whether she was coerced, then another that she probably gave in to Edward in the end. I also found it hard to relate to Nesta in the beginning.  I would have understood her more if we were told that she was seeking personal revenge instead of fighting for this grand cause that wasn't fully explained until the end.<br /><br />Still, this is a really good book and the fact that it almost made me cry is enough reason for me to give it 5 stars.	2004-12-16
US	15230875	R2S1P56I92J2XB	0380007789	856556145	The Wolf and the Dove	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Better the second time around	This is a novel set in the medieval era, where men were warriors and conquerors and women didn't have as much rights as we do in the modern world. Hence, it was nice to read about how a heroine conquers a fierce warrior.  This is the romance between Aislinn of Darkenwald, whose home was invaded by the Norman conquerors, and Wulfgar, the so-called Iron Wolf of Normandy. In this book, Ms Woodiwiss tells the story of how these two people overcome all obstacles to find true love.<br /><br />I admire Aislinn's strength and courage.  Despite what she was subjected to when the Normans, lead by Ragnor, invaded her home, she doesn't lose her spirit.  She remains the symbol of strength of the people of Darkenwald.  As for Wulfgar, being the warrior that he is, he seems cold at the start, but then the author explains how he came to mistrust women.  I like how their love develops.  You get to see Wulfgar weakens where Aislinn is concerned, doing things that you would never expect from him.  The author has also added some humorous exchanges between these two.  It's also good to see the villains get what they deserve, and another bonus is the surprise revelation made at the end of the book.<br /><br />This is the second time I read this.  Admittedly, I would have probably only given this about 3 and a half stars when I first read it years ago, but I am so glad that I gave this book another go, as I truly enjoyed and appreciated it the second time.	2004-12-14
US	15230875	R2LDK8M91QB149	0380805707	446453224	A Secret Love (Cynster Novels)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	4 and a half stars!  - the best since Devil's Bride	I wish that Amazon has half stars so I could rate this properly. I truly enjoyed reading this book.  This is by far the best Cynster novel since Devil's Bride.<br /><br />Lady Alathea Morwellan finds a promissory note which could spell disaster for her family.  Having managed the family finances for over a decade, she goes into action immediately and seeks Gabriel Cynster's help, her childhood friend, and an expert in investments.  Not willing to reveal her true identity, she disguises herself as a widowed countess and sets up the meeting with Gabriel.  He is intrigued and agrees to help her, but in return, she must kiss him each time he finds some information.  Eventually, he finds out the truth and, along with his discovery of her identity, he also discovers his true feelings for her and the romance begins.<br /><br />What makes this such an entertaining read is the banter between these two and the constant tension.  On the surface, these two will strike you in the beginning as such an unlikely couple, as they seem to truly hate each other at times, but we know that there is more to it, which is of course their attraction to each other.  Their antipathy towards each other also makes for some pretty hilarious read.  Their arguments, especially Gabriel's disgust for Alathea's cap, is truly entertaining.  And there are some really sweet moments too, such as Gabriel's first declaration of his love through the note he included with the flowers.<br /><br />This is almost as good as Devil's Bride.  A wonderful book and I highly recommend it.	2004-12-14
US	15230875	R29BM59N3DTFN4	0380805693	132899149	A Rogue's Proposal (Cynster Novels, Book 4)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Really enjoyable	After my disappointment with Vane's and Scandal's stories, I wasn't sure what to expect from Demon's story.  Fortunately, the romance between Felicity and Demon was enjoyable to read.<br /><br />The opening scene in this book continues from where Laurens left it on Scandal's Bride.  After hearing from his brother, Vane, that Richard has married, Demon decides to escape from the matchmaking mamas of the ton and retreat to his horse-breeding farm in Newmarket.  Upon his arrival, a young lad who was exercising his favorite thoroughbred catches his attention.  But when he takes a better look at the young lad, he realizes that his form (well, his bottom actually) couldn't possibly be that of a man's.  And so after a brief pursuit, he finds out that the lad was in fact Felicity Parteger, the ward of his mentor, the General. When he confronts her, Demon learns that she's working under the disguise of a stable hand in a bid to help the General's son, whose life has become in danger after getting himself involved in a race-fixing scheme.  With the usual coolness of a Cynster, he offers to help her.<br /><br />As the two of them work together in uncovering the identity of the culprits, an undeniable attraction starts to grow.  Whereas he didn't think much of Flick the last time he saw her, Demon is now fully aware of her beauty and sensuality.  When Felicity's virtue is accidentally compromised one night, Demon decides to marry her, while Felicity refuses of course, as she doesn't want to marry someone who isn't in love with her.<br /><br />Although the book follows the same romance elements as the previous Cynster books, I found that the romance between Demon and Felicity is slightly different in that Demon is more careful in his courtship of her, primarily due to the big age gap between them.  It is well-developed and there are moments when we actually see him hold back his feelings.<br /><br />In terms of personality, Felicity is very likable.  And despite being the youngest of the Bar Cynster wives, she shows maturity and strength of character.  But every now and then, we do get a glimpse of her innocence and youth, which adds more to her appeal.<br /><br />This was a fun book to read.  The sexual tension between Demon and Felicity was played out well.  And you will be delighted by some of the witty exchanges between them (my favorite part being the 'etchings').  Read it and enjoy.wives, she shows maturity and strength of character.  But every now and then, we do get a glimpse of her innocence and youth, which adds more to her appeal.      This was a fun book to read.  The sexual tension between Demon and Felicity was played out well.  And you will be delighted by some of the witty exchanges between them (my favorite part being the 'etchings').  Read it and enjoy.	2004-12-14
US	15230875	R391N2MLOBDRW6	0380805685	360399234	Scandal's Bride (Cynster Novels)	Books	3	3	6	N	N	Thank God for the appearance of the other Cynsters	What happened with Scandal's story?  I can appreciate that Stephanie Laurens was probably trying to be different after the similar plot of the first two books, but why the Lady of the Vale story?<br /><br />Of all the heroines in the Bar Cynster novels, I am not sure which one I like the least - Catriona or Patience.  Richard deserves better.  And I certainly don't believe that Helena and Devil would have bought the whole Lady of the Vale concept either.  In fact, I don't think that any of the Cynsters would have bought it at all and act as if it were all normal.<br /><br />Sure the love scenes are hot, but the only thing that really saved this for me was the extended appearance of Devil and Honoria and the other members of the family.  It was just hilarious when they started appearing at Catriona's doorstep.  I actually didn't want them to leave.  For that part alone, this book is worth reading.	2004-12-14
US	15230875	R22D20JCVF4LYS	038079456X	386673452	Devil's Bride (Cynster Novels)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	The first and THE best of the Bar Cynster novels	What a great way to start the Cynster series!  I absolutely loved this book and couldn't put it down.  This is a great introduction to the Cynster family, especially those disgustingly handsome and sexy Bar Cynster cousins.  As soon as I finished reading this, I bought the other 5 Cynster novels because I wanted to know what happened with the rest of the Bar Cynster.<br /><br />Devil and Honoria are my favorite Cynster couple.  Devil is just to die for and Honoria is the perfect match for him.  He is rakishly handsome and so arrogantly sexy.  He is strong, devoted to his family and, of course, he is the Duke of St Ives, the leader of the notorious Bar Cynster and the most eligible bachelor in the ton.  As for Honoria, she is the strongest and most interesting of the Bar Cynster wives - not to mention the most stylish and sophisticated.  The part in the book where someone mentions that she was born and bred to lead the ton and take on the role of the family matriarch couldn't be more true.  When reading the succeeding books, I couldn't help but measure up the other heroines against Honoria, and couldn't imagine any of them in the Duchess' role.  I love the interaction between those two, and the way they slug it out during their heated exchanges is very entertaining.  It is always delightful to read about them in the other Cynster books, in fact, I'm always looking forward to their appearance.<br /><br />If you can overlook the weak murder plot/mystery and concentrate on the romance, you will love this book.  This is the best out of the series and one that I will read over and over again.	2004-12-14
US	15230875	R2NRF8RH0VCXKO	0061082686	693909166	The Black Earl	Books	4	3	3	N	N	An Earl to die for	This book was the very first historical romance I read, and I absolutely fell in love with it.  Having just read it again recently, I must say that I have mixed feelings about it.  Whereas before I would have given it 5 stars in a heartbeat, I am now taking off half a star.<br /><br />The story starts out well.  We see Elizabeth and her brother Stephen under their uncle's wing who treats them cruelly.  One day Elizabeth hears his uncle talk about Richard, known as The Black Earl. She learns that Richard has sworn revenge against her uncle, who was responsible for the murder of his parents and their previous sufferings.  She decides to take the ultimate risk by going to him and throwing herself at his mercy to try and save herself and Stephen.  You will admire her courage for doing so, as we are told how Richard is supposed to be merciless and possesses a black soul.  Fast forward and we see them get married.  Richard takes Elizabeth back to his home, and here we suddenly see a complete turnaround in her character.  She is rude to Gwendolyne, thinking the woman beneath her, as she was Richard's late father's mistress and the mother of his illegitimate brother, James, whom Elizabeth also dislikes.  Then she's not the most sympathetic of her servants.  And all this time, Richard has shown nothing but kindness to her.  Now I don't exactly hate Elizabeth, but the author could have painted her in a better light, seeing as how there was nothing to hate about Richard's character, so this is ensure to make most readers dislike Elizabeth for this reason.  I agree with the other review that the main attraction to this book is Richard himself.  He is to die for.  And yes, you will fall in love with him even more when you read the scene of him with his daughter - it is oh so tender!  Just priceless!<br /><br />This is so far the only Candace Camp book I have read, but if the heroes in her other books are all like Richard, then I look forward to reading her other novels.	2004-12-14
US	15230875	R2RWY8ZEHX3X1D	1551667169	876448466	Surrender To Love	Books	4	7	7	N	N	My first Rosemary Rogers' novel	This was the first Rogers' book that I read and that was more than 10 years ago.  I have since re-read it twice and each time I still feel drawn to the characters.<br /><br />The first meeting between Alexandra Howard and Nicholas Dameron, when they both decide to go for a late night swim in the Governor's pool, is one of my favorite parts in this book and it promises of much more exciting encounters between these two.  The storyline is well told and the character development is good.  You get to see Alexa swept from her safe haven in Ceylon to the dangerous and worldly playgrounds of the rich in Europe, as a result of the discovery of her true parentage.  You see her develop from a rather naive debutante, whose passion was roused by Nicholas, to a fully grown woman, intent on taking revenge against her real father and grandmother.  As for Nicholas, we see an arrogant, cold man who at times acts so despicably towards women, yet learning about his past gives you a better understanding of him.  And despite the hard exterior, there are some tender moments between him and Alexa, which I found enjoyable.  We also see him redeem himself by protecting Alexa from the torture that her father puts him through.<br /><br />This book deals with a lot of deceit and scandals, and there's a bit of bodice-ripping as well.  When I first read this, I was rather shocked, but open-minded enough even at a young age to know that this is just fiction, and something not to be taken too seriously.  And having just finished reading Sweet Savage Love, I think that this is a lot tamer.<br /><br />The things I didn't like about this are the lengthy narratives and the italicized words, which seem to be on every page.  Quite annoying really.  The ending also seems a bit rushed considering the size of the book.  But overall, I enjoyed reading this and give it 4 and a half stars.	2004-12-14
US	15230875	R14HQKKJHHK9IU	0380844001	773759669	A Rose in Winter	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A wonderful Beauty and the Beast kind of romance	This is only my second Woodiwiss novel; the first one being The Wolf and The Dove, which I read years ago and have just re-read recently.<br /><br />I love the characters in this book.  Erienne plays the damsel in distress in need of rescuing from her never-do-well father, inept brother and not-so-great suitors.  She meets the handsome Christopher, whom her father owes a lot of money to, and whom she thinks is the main reason for her family's misfortune.  Both are instantly attracted to each other, but Erienne denies the attraction.  Now, in order for her father to pay off his debts, she ends up being auctioned and married off to the highest bidder - enter the hideous Lord Saxton.  He tries to woo her.  At first, Erienne feels nothing but disgust for him physically, until his gentleness and kindness pays off and she starts to relax around him.  Then she finds out that Christopher is actually Lord Saxton's cousin. Trouble starts once more as Christopher's constant presence plays havoc with her feelings.  As Erienne finds herself falling for Christopher, she is torn between her loyalty to her husband and her love for his cousin.<br /><br />I like how the author portrays Erienne as both vulnerable and strong at the same time.  I also like the contrast between Christopher and Lord Saxton - the former being dashing, sensual and self-assured, while the latter is gentle, kind and mysterious.<br /><br />As with other reviews, the plot is predictable, but the story that leads up to the discovery of the truth is very enjoyable and you will enjoy the interaction between the main characters.  This is truly a wonderful read.	2004-12-14
US	15230875	R36GRAQHOW6JC1	0843934085	244203692	Amber Flame	Books	5	13	13	N	N	An all time favorite -  a must read	I first read this when I was about 14 and fell in love with the characters. This has been recently re-printed under the new title \\"His Bonnie Bride\\".<br /><br />The story starts with the battle between the Eldons of England and the MacLagans of Scotland, who have been sworn enemies for centuries. We meet a 10-year-old Storm for the first time, who endears herself to her families' enemies, and leaves a mark on Tavis MacLagan, her future lover. Seven years later and Tavis stumbles upon her by accident and ends up saving her from the advances of Sir Hugh, but in return she was taken as a hostage. Of course we know the other reason for this, but that is what makes this book so exciting. As the story progresses, Storm and Tavis find themselves more and more drawn to each other. Storm falls in love with Tavis, and Tavis finds himself struggling to suppress his feelings for her for fear of being burned once again.<br /><br />The main characters are very likeable. Storm is funny, quick-witted, passionate and strong. And she certainly doesn't mince words! Tavis is handsome and sexy and a perfect match for her. You will love every moment of them together, and will laugh at all their fights. The author has done really well to make the readers feel for the characters. This is a very sweet, witty and exciting novel, spiced up more by the sizzling love scenes. The appearance of their family also adds to the fun of the story.<br /><br />I wish that there would be a sequel, as this book is a real favorite. Don't miss this one. A wonderful book to add to your collection.	2004-12-14
US	15230875	R1VBJQAHS9P29J	1551668319	774057267	Sweet Savage Love	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Nothing sweet about this story	Curiosity got the better of me so I bought this novel. Even though the story started off slow for me, I finished this book quickly, eager to find out what the fuss was all about. Well, there's definitely nothing sweet about Steve and Ginny's story. If you like your historical romance saccharine, then you may want to stay away from this book. However, if you could keep an open mind and just think that this is fiction, it is certainly worth reading.<br /><br />Steve and Ginny are probably one of the most memorable couples you'll read about - they're not your average Romeo and Juliet. Their love/lust for each other verges on self-destruction, and some of their actions leave little to be desired, however, I couldn't help but feel for them, as despite being dragged through all kinds of abuse, humiliation and degradation, they emerge stronger than before.<br /><br />I do have a couple of issues though. One of them is the number of times that Ginny was assaulted. Once was enough, but repeatedly? I could understand how some would feel reading about it. It was too much! My other issue is the length of the novel. At 700 pages long, I felt that the author could have done better with the ending. It just seemed too abrupt. Considering how Steve and Ginny have separated, reunited, separated and reunited once more, all those times feeling hate for each other and concealing their true feelings, it was as if the author just decided to rush the last 4 pages just to finish off the book. C'mon! I wanted more. I wanted to see them reunited with their family and celebrate. I at least wanted to see them walk hand in hand strolling in the garden or something like that. I guess I will have to read the next instalments to appease my curiosity and see if they finally get the ending I craved for in this book.	2004-12-14
US	15230875	R34E9M9UNBYTLO	0380794578	129042291	A Rake's Vow (Cynster Novels)	Books	3	8	9	N	N	Quite disappointing after Devil's Bride	Caught up in a bad weather, Vane Cynster decides to pass the night at Bellamy Hall, his godmother's place.  Upon arrival, he meets Patience Debbington, who immediately catches his rakish eyes.  When Vane learns from his godmother that there has been a series of theft (with Gerard Debbington being the main suspect) and that a spectre is haunting the grounds, he agrees to stay on and help solve the mystery, much to the dismay of Patience, who has taken an instant dislike of him on the grounds that he is an 'elegant gentleman' and the possible influence he may have on her brother, Gerard.<br /><br />The plot follows that of Devil's Bride, which would have been fine had it been written in a more convincing way and supported by memorable secondary characters.  But the mystery was too weak, and some of the secondary characters were boring and plain annoying, to the point of being ridiculous.  And I found it hard to relate to Patience and really like her compared to Honoria.  She just lacks depth and is rather boring in my opinion.  Her dislike for 'elegant gentlemen' in particular should have been explained earlier in the book to make her dislike of him a little easier to understand.  At times, I felt like she wasn't being totally honest with Vane.  As for Vane, he wasn't really portrayed as well as Devil and his character just wasn't fully realized.<br /><br />After reading Devil's story, I was quite disappointed with this novel.  Since Vane was the other Bar Cynster member who featured the most in the first book, I was eager to read his story but sadly, this didn't live up to my expectations.  I think that this is the weakest of the 6 Bar Cynster novels, and I actually skipped a lot of pages just to get to the end.  But still, I think that this would probably be enjoyable to those who haven't read Devil's Bride.	2004-12-14
US	15230875	R1QNLSGJ6DSMNQ	0380812010	940072935	All About Love (Cynster Novels)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Not a bad ending for the Bar Cynster series	This is the 6th and final novel in the Bar Cynster series.<br /><br />As typical of the previous five books, Lucifer is on the run after finding himself the only unmarried Bar Cynster.  He decides to visit a friend, but ends up finding him murdered.  After being struck on the head by Phyllida, he ends up in her family's care.  They make a pact to try and find out who killed his friend and the romance begins.  Lucifer decides that Phyllida is the wife that he wants, while Phyllida is of course not keen at first on the idea, although she's not against fooling around with him.  Hey, this is Stephanie Laurens, what else can we expect?<br /><br />Phyllida reminds me of Demon's wife, Felicity.  They are so much alike that we see an instant rapport between them when they first meet, when Demon and Felicity come for a visit and stay to help them with the murder case.  Lucifer is, of course, sexy and confident (no surprise there).  One of my favorite scenes in this book is when Phyllida sneaks into the Manor and Lucifer catches her.  Lucifer does this Zorro-thing with her clothes and then tells her \\"I've always wanted to do that\\".  I thought it was hilarious.  The other highlight of the book is Lucifer's proposal in the garden.  The first time a Bar Cynster does the proper thing - priceless!<br /><br />Although the spark between the two is not as electrifying as that of Devil and Honoria, they still make for a good story.  Besides, I have to tell myself that nobody compares to the Duke and Duchess.  Oh, and let me mention that I love how Laurens' finished the book with the gathering of the Cynster clan, with a highlight on Devil and Honoria.  It's great to see their romance still sizzles!  A very good ending to the Bar Cynster.	2004-12-14
