US	15597912	RX040RB1LPF4D	0131863665	30593495	Winners Never Cheat: Everyday Values We Learned as Children (But May Have Forgotten)	Books	3	19	38	N	N	Huntsman is great-- let him tell you all about it...	Jon Huntsman has lived the American dream. He is a sharp, dynamic, respectable, and ethical man who apparently knows how to work, loves to do business, and has made billions. He is a billionaire with a heart, a family, and a religion. <br />I like this book-- for the most part. The story of him taking less money in the wake of simple hand-shake is truly wonderful. However, had I my own way, I would like to see the sub-heading read more like: \\"Winners Never Cheat: Little Known Things That Jon Huntsman Did, Which Were Good, But Not Too Many People Knew About, Which He Wanted Us To Know.\\" I found the book a little too self-congratulatory and pretentious. Something in the tone of: I am a great guy and you wouldn't have guessed it because I am wealthy. That is not to say the Jon Huntsman isn't a true philanthropist and hasn't done much good with his money. He most certainly has! <br />I live in SLC, UT and I am familiar with the Huntsman family. Actually, I am familiar with the mansions and exclusive circles and neighborhoods they live in. My friend's father worked for Huntsman for years. I see the Cancer Institute everyday. The U of U basketball team plays their games in his donated and name-bearing arena. Growing up in SLC, it is hard not to know of them. That said, they have certainly given a lot and appear to be aware of the principle of philanthropy and of giving. However, don't for a minute think that these people live modestly and have denied themselves the good life for the cause of humanity. Their homes and neighborhoods are breathe-taking and over the top. <br />I don't think that Huntsman is anything (ANYTHING!!!) like Plato's \\"guardian\\" from the Republic-that is a major flaw donated by Mr. King. I don't think that he is entirely humble and selfless. I don't think that this book isn't pretentious. I don't think that it is okay to confidently list a great many incorrect business activities, plaguing the \\"modern world,\\" but fail to note nepotism as a bad-business practice-didn't \\"Good to Great\\" end that style of thought for good? <br />I wonder if Mr. Covey is bothered that Huntsman took his \\"eulogy\\" exercise for this book-presenting it anew?     <br />As I know it, Huntsman does care for humanity, does take care of employees, and does give to charities outside his own church, state, and country. After all, he wrote this book to let us know. <br />This book is a recycling of long-standing humanistic principles. The concept of a universal good, a universal right or wrong, of hard work, of family first, of honesty, of character, and of giving, is nothing new. That Mr. Huntsman has done all these things is not to be argued-- he has. However, one must be slightly cautious to take advice from one who appears to have little problem with donating or nominating themselves to the example pool. In other words, Jon Huntsman knows and thinks he is as great as he really may be.  <br /> <br />Once we pull through some of the \\"gratifications,\\" you find underneath this story the common and necessary elements of almost every successful individual's story. There is nothing earth shaking herein. Just the same old coming from nothing, finding strength and confidence in those around you, having a few strokes of good luck, remembering where you came from, perseverance, hard work, character, and maintaining a life's philosophy. He inspires others to have the same attributes, like the many that came before him and those who will follow with their own success stories. <br /> <br />So, does he like Nixon or not? If you ask me, Huntsman asks his reader to allow him some shady friendships while giving himself the benefit of doubt.  <br />  <br />	2005-09-04
US	15597912	RXDG18K6LD3HP	0743226712	53542661	1776	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Two victories!	I loved this book. The only reason I did not give it five stars is because it ended too soon. The book begins with the \\"rebel\\" victory at Boston up to the events of the cold winter at Trenton. The events are masterfully navigated upon the shoulders of Washington, Howe, down to the most common soldier. We are alloted the information through the words and vantage points of either side's general, other chief officers, and soldiers. Top to bottom, the information and telling of this story is a true masterpiece. I found little fault with the text. It certainly is full of names and locations of which our memories are taxed and their are no real sufficent maps in the book itself. The author does a great job or reminding us who is who and where is where, however.  <br />I gained a deep appreciation for the army of this perioed, its leaders, and of Washington in general, by reading this text. The story is wonderful while the accompanying research is awe-inspiring.  <br /> <br />This text a wonderful telling of the rebel beginnings and is a victory for its author as well.	2005-08-09
US	15597912	R24V39LUT51A53	0820408964	537444377	The Power of the Written Word (Studia Classica)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A Worthy Book	This text is the author's attempt at demonstrating the history of the world through the passing down of books and literacy. The author takes us on a detailed and quite educational journey through some of histories greatest intellectual achievements and connects such events through the thread of literacy. We read of classic times among the Romans and Greeks, the time of Darwin, the birth of modern medicine, Newton and science, and the master-- Copernicus.  <br />As we journey through the many intellectual achievements, the authors underlining assumption of the common tie of literacy becomes less obvious. It is as though the book's premise begins on target but soon comes apart to the point that we find ourselves reading a history book-- not a book about literacy. However, depsite this type of cover to cover adhesiveness, it is a book worth a reading and is well informed. There is no doubtr that the author is at home in times past and the characters therefrom.  <br />Overall, if you have interest in reading about the intellectual movements of history-- and can force the connection of literacy and books-- than this is the book for you. Undoubtebly, as I have always felt, these movements were definately indebted to the printed word.	2005-07-23
US	15597912	R4GTW4R4RDR6B	0451529286	662577934	Books that Changed the World	Books	4	18	21	N	N	Subjective but informed	The author himself acknowledges that such books or articles that assert a universal list of \\"the world's most important books\\" are mostly of opinion and purely subjective. Though many books may share space on many lists, there are always differences of opinion. Despite the imperfect science behind inventing such a list, such as the author does, this book is a delightful read and a well-rounded education for all.<br /><br />I find that the book did indeed reach the books of great significance, occasionally skipping some of the modern-day literary classics. You will not find any literature, per say, following the authors discussion of the Greeks. However, surely Dickens, Shakespeare, or even Hemminway, should find space on such lists as composed by the author. Nevertheless, Newton, Darwin, Copernicus, Augustine, and Stowe all find a presence and the author does great justince to them. This is certainly a list of books whose focus is founded from the perspective of scientific impact-- whether socail or political. The title may be best changed the The Most Influential Books of Political and Social Science-- and Behavioral (i.e. Freud).<br /><br />In the end, I found the list fairly accurate and the presentation good but not consistent. Some books receive pages of insight as another may get a page and a half. The reader wonders if the author truly meant to include a book by the discussion and focus it receives. Some books I had never heard of and, as an English major, I can't figure how they made the list and others did not. However, the authors discussion of Stowe, Freud, Marx, Hitler, and Adam Smith shows great knowledge and insight.<br /><br />This is a book worth reading and hopefully inspires new lists.	2005-07-23
US	15597912	RBU2XDA1E0GUV	0345342968	383457570	Fahrenheit 451	Books	3	1	4	N	N	Interesting but lacking!	This is an interesting book with an interesting premise. The thought that the day will come when firemen will burn books instead of putting out fires is original and quite symbolic. There are some subtle highlights throughout the text but on the whole it isn't real exciting or fun. It is short and to the point, however.  <br />For me, the real story is in the writing of the text and the history of the author. His story is highly inspirational and fun to read. While the book isn't a real entertainment, it is potent in message and subtlties. There is a wothwhile message awating the thoughtful reader.	2005-06-07
US	15597912	R3IJFX2B9C0QLT	0252070410	744759190	The Reading of Books	Books	5	10	10	N	N	A wonderful treasure from a great reader!	Although Mr Jackson has left this world, his legacy lives on. Though antique, this book is mocern.  <br />This book is a wonderful read and a great illustration of a brilliant man. Mr Jackson is a critic of reading and a historian of this necessary practice. Chapter by chapter, you will become amazed at the knowledge of this man in his many references, all very relavent, to his topic(s). His main premise is that there is a qualitative measuremnet to reading that far outwieghs the quantitative. He explores many topics but always seems to hit home on the relationship that must exist between the read and the writer.  <br />This book is full of research, thoughtful anaylisis, and quotables. He is brilliant in his message and thoughtful in his presentation. If you are interested in reading a book about the practice of reading, the relationship of the author with the reader, the relationship with the author and his text, while gaining many insights into some of the world's greatest literary giants (including Holbrook), then this is the book for you. I am a careful and thoughtful reader and this book made me even better. Genius is not always found in the message but in its affects.	2005-06-07
US	15597912	RCXRNQ5I9K8ZP	1582344256	878087683	Why Read?	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Very Good	This is a wonderful book about reading literature. The book also has strong undertones about the complacency of modern students, the dullness of professors, and the commercial/consumer catering university. I found the book to be a great exploration into our own day and the error we are making in our attentiveness to the Humanities. I agree with nearly everything Edmundson wrote and really enoyed his chapters about Theory and Criticism-- both things he apparently detests. <br />In the end, this book is about the failures of modern man, at the university level, to be a student of the Humanities, or to be a worthy professor of such. The reading is simple and clear and had many great examples from literary giants. It is also a short read and should take the average reader no time at all to finish.  <br />If you are interested in reading a Modern day's Humanist approach to literature and reading, this is the book for you. If you want to hear a distinguished professor say the same things you were thinking while attending college-- this is the book for you, too.	2005-05-21
US	15597912	R2F4ESQ5VV7QUB	0140166548	285163435	A History of Reading	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Magnificent	This book is well-written, perfectly researched, and a staple for reading history. At first, the book is slightly surprising because it doesn't read chronologically but thematically. When reading a \\"history\\", the reader thinks that chronology will be the main vein of the text; this text follows the vein of themes. A new and prudent story opens and meters each chapter. We are introduced to crucial information, people, and history, through the vantage point of stories, people, and research. I found the thematic approach alarming at first but later found it refreshing.  <br />This is a wonderful book for a history of reading. It is text book quality book wrapped in a more popular presentation and writing style. It is simple and clear. It is actually exciting and pleasant.  <br />The research is wonderful and illuminating. Anyone who is interestied in taking a walk through time, and a history of reading and some of the most important characters, this is the book for you. The history of reading is made interesting through wonderful themes, people, and stories. A great scholar, reader, and man. A great book.	2005-05-12
US	15597912	R1PC2H2ZZVA71K	0449910091	406157534	The Gutenberg Elegies: The Fate of Reading in an Electronic Age	Books	3	0	4	N	N	A collection of thoughts against the micro-chip	This is an interesting book because of two reasons: 1)It is written with little reference to other works and, thus, remains the sole opinion of this author; 2)The computer is attacked with all verocity. <br />In the end, this book is the thoughts, or \\"meditations,\\" of the author and are simply a direct challenge to the technological world's onslaught. He sees the time that he wrote this book as the edge of the destruction of the written word. Indeed, the references to technology are outdated now, but the ideology is still valid.The author argues the very points of the failures of the technological approach and the relevencies of the written word.  <br />I liked the text, it is a little too autobiographical at times, but I think the points are valid and worth consideration. I found it odd, and slightly refreshing, that there are very little reference to other authors herein. In this sense, we get straight to the point, straight from the mind of the author. <br />If you are looking for some ideas about the importance of the written word, in opposition to the world of computers, then this is the book for you. The arguments are solid but are not empirical. They are outdated but relevant. It is a quick read with some personal digressions.	2005-04-28
US	15597912	R1DX22LYO07ODQ	0671708635	783953685	The 7 Habits of Highly Effective People	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A Must Read	Bottom line, this is the best self-help book available. It is a must read for anyone who is interested in understanding the concept of how Principles can drive our life and make us more effective and efficient. This is the entire basis of the book: through principle-centered living, we can become more effectvie in our life and relationships.  <br />Covey has a way of writing that completely compliments his stories and concepts. He is well-educated, well-experienced, and well-gifted in writing. I do believe that this book will remain the best available for a long time to come. <br />If you are intersted in learning how to change your effectiveness through Principle-centered living, by changing yourself form the inside-out, then this book is for you. I put off reading it for a long time because I thought it was cheesey and over-exposed. I was wrong.  <br />It is a must read.	2005-04-23
US	15597912	R36AIG6RSYRNI6	0071437924	585667576	My Personal Best : Life Lessons from an All-American Journey	Books	4	19	19	N	N	It is short, to the point, and tremendous!	This book is thin, short, full of pictures, a simple days read, and yet, it is packed with content. This is a journey to the core of Wooden's life. It is simple but complex. <br />In this book you will read about the central concepts that goverened Wooden's life from childhood to his success(s) at UCLA. He skips the details and goes right for the meat in this book. He tells the reader what exactly he learned, at each point along the way, and then we move to the next item of business. There are some fun pictures, a few interesting stories, but tons of little life \\"philosophies\\" that make the read worth it.  <br />If you are interested in cutting away the sometimes bulky biography-type text that can follow a wonderful coach and man, and get right to the core of his life's experience, this is the book for you. It is for all ages, all interests, and should take you no time to read.  <br />This is not an extensive biography, but an extensive course in Wooden principles learned in his life.	2005-04-23
US	15597912	R3ECZX67LH9919	0671723650	132993260	How to Win Friends & Influence People	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Old but, like wine, still tastes great	This is a wonderful book about the core(s) of human relations. In this text, you learn what techniques will allow you to communicate and make friends with anyone. If you are interested in learning the essential skills of friend-making/social excellence, this is the book for you.<br />This is also a fun history book because it was written a long time ago. Although the examples are outdated, the techniques are not. Further, the examples provide a slight glimpse into history-- so they are fun to read too.<br />I believe in these principles and know for certain that they are correct. The techniques discussed are simple social and communicative basics and, if mastered, will allow the reader to converse on hieghts and new abilities unheard of.<br />The writting style is slightly old but still simple and direct. It is easy reading with great examples which make it a fun read too.<br />This book opens the door to communicating effectively with anyone, any place!	2005-04-19
US	15597912	R2B0DT4RDJMR5R	0609610570	431185442	Execution: The Discipline of Getting Things Done	Books	3	8	8	N	N	Worth a reading	This book is a good insight into how these two men think execution is best accompished in a business. They forward the idea that execution is best achieved in a business setting through the three core processes of people, strategy, and operations. They argue that a leader must work closely with these three core processes in order to achieve execution and positive results. Therefore, this is not a book that explores individual execution as much as it instructs how a leader can get the most from their companies. <br />The examples of Honeywell and Jack Welch flood the pages of this text. The authors succeed in demonstrating the necessity of working closely with the core processes, but they fail slightly in explaining the qualities and habits of a leader that is an executioner of his/her own right. If you are interested in building and making a business execute more, this book is for you. If you are intersted in executing more in your own life and becoming more effective, personally, this is not the best book--though may be slightly helpful. This is not a self-help but a business-help.  <br />The writing is clear and simple. Great details and energy are employed to show how execution should be approached through people, strategy, and operations. It is not a page turner but is a great place to start for a struggling leader who wants to start getting things done.  <br />	2005-04-07
US	15597912	R1CS19TMJ54HY5	0071446524	820348484	Crucial Confrontations: Tools for Resolving Broken Promises, Violated Expectations, and Bad Behavior	Books	4	155	164	N	N	Re-Hashed but Good	If you have read Crucial Conversations, then you are already very familiar with this book and its contents. The fact is, this book is a re-hashing of Crucial Conversations; however, this time, the principles shared seem more applicable than they were before. <br />I think that this book is the real and better application of the authors' main principles. It is an easy and quick read and the language is very simple and direct. The book discusses ways to have a confrontation in which results are gained and friendships are not lost. It is a win-win approach. I do believe that this book can and does help. I did not particularily like the Crucial Conversations because it wasn't real earth shattering and seemed to simple. This time, however, the subject of \\"confrontations\\" seems more open to the authors' intentions-- thus a better read.  <br />This is a good book to read and a better book to apply. <br /> <br />	2005-03-18
US	15597912	R1VMZRSRRDM4HG	0066620996	205785288	Good to Great: Why Some Companies Make the Leap and Others Don't	Books	5	0	2	N	N	Absolutely Wonderful!!	This is a great book. If you are interested in reading about companies who were able to break away from medicority, become great, and sustain it- then this book is for you. You will be hard pressed to find a better text to derive some new and stronger principles for success.  You will find that this book is written in clear and direct writing styles, often using diagrams and charts to simplify the message. Because of the research and presentation, this book is certainly a page turner! It is also full of detailed examples and \\"revelations\\" which cause the reader to be inspired and excited about what the author is speaking about.   It is apperant that a great amount of research attended this book and plenty of footnotes and endnotes make the research accesible and believable. The foundations of this work are as solid as its message.   The message is simple: companies that sustain change share core principles and strategies-- the book tells you what they are.   It is motivational and exciting. It is a must read.    Throughout the text you will read about the \\"uncovered\\" and shared patterns that accompany the example companies who sustained an amazing market/success change. You will read about the things they all share in common and what they did differently from those who failed. It is logical, exciting, and well supported.  I trust what I read and benefited greatly from reading this text.	2005-03-07
US	15597912	RCHT73VFYARYP	0071401946	48943786	Crucial Conversations: Tools for Talking When Stakes Are High	Books	3	185	214	N	N	I am not entirely sold on this one	I bought this book because: 1) I want to be better in communication (in general) and; 2) it had great reviews (Steve Covey!!). I finished it in 4 days and must say I was not all that impressed.  <br />It reads like a text-book in that they (the authors) are always asking us to apply some new system of operation. They remind us that one reading is not enough and much time must be spent in mastering their principles. The principles do appear correct, well considered, and are clearly proposed. They are certainly getting back to the basics of communication and there are a few wonderful revelations (but nothing earth shattering).  <br />Further, the book has a behavioral science/study feel to it but no footnotes or extensive referencing is made. The case studies are general and simple- the examples throughout the book are slightly feeble and even more simple. I was continually bothered in reading a book based on years of \\"research\\" which was void of notated study/notes/details. In the end, it lacks experiemental conviction and convincing. <br />I appreciated the effort made to present information and models in simple ways. I appreciate the motivational tone of the book. But, I was seeking something new and exciting- some earth shattering information based on years of study.  <br />In the end, this book is a simplistic discussion of healthy dialogue which is presented in clever models. It is not a page turner!!  <br />Its greatest flaw is the absence of solid case study or examples; its greatest strength is its simple presentation and kind tone.  <br />There has got to be better texts available on the subject....	2005-02-25
US	15597912	ROU1JIG9EA2YR	093489325X	30486808	Book of Mormon Authorship Revisited: The Evidence for Ancient Origins	Books	4	12	14	N	N	Here is where the scholars stand	This is a great text to read if you are interested in where Book of Mormon scholarship stands in our time, at present. Most, if not all, the contributing authors are from FARMS, a foundation devoted to Book of Mormon scholarship. Reading this book is like reading a journal of science, published today, from the leading scientists from NASA. It is, as they say, the horses mouth when it comes to Mromon scholarship.<br /><br />Each essay is obviously scholarly and well written. You will find that they are more inviting than the ending of the whole matter. Topics differ in topic and research, but each rely upon demonstrating the ancient origin of the book. Skousen is the LDS faiths leading \\"original manuscrpit\\" scholar; Welch is the Mormons cutting-edge and new \\"brilliant\\" scholar; and Peterson is the faiths keynote defender. When desiring to know what the best of the flock are saying, in regards to the defense and research of the Book of Mormon, this is the book to read. Though out-dated now, it is still worthy of reading. Topics from chiasmus, the translation, and the position of \\"anti-\\" mormons, are considered and evaluated. So, it is general in presentation but potent in content.<br /><br />One reviewer asked, \\"where is Christ?\\" or \\"God\\" after reading this book. I ask, why did you come to this book for your inquiry? Detractors will scoff at this text while never being able to refute its finer points. If you want to read a book about God, read the Book of Mormon or Bible... if you are looking into LDS research on the book, read this text.<br /><br />This book is the Mormon's most significant stand on scholarship and defense. IT is a froce to be reckoned with!	2005-02-19
US	15597912	R3U5IJA0AI2UVM	0060608161	10055777	The Day Christ Died	Books	5	4	6	N	N	A historical and literary pleasantry	Bishop wrote a wonderful book which considers much of what Mel Gibson's recent movie depicts. Bishop is a historian at heart, breaking in with full-length chapters on Roman and Palestinian life and history, as he considers the last hours and days of Christ's life. This is a bold text for anyone to undertake write because there exists some uncertainties when detailing with these events. One great thing about this text is that it is a simple and quick read. Not a thousand page history and doctrinal treatise. Good for all ages.  <br />Bishop makes his approach a thoughtful one and employs great writing and research to present his chronology and case. One can not read this text and get a better idea of what it was like in the last hours and days, alongside a better perspective for the times and people of this period, for Christ. It is a history book in every sense. It should be applauded and read with interest; just don't bet the farm on it.	2005-02-17
US	15597912	R1KG61GLPFLR29	1573222968	628638589	U2 Show	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Technically great	If you have any interest in what happens to make a U2 concert happen, by the crew members, designers, and band, this is the book for you. It is not only a backstage pass to most of U2's greatest tours, it is also a technical approach to a technical process. Pictures are pretty good too, but don;t purchase this book if you want some old photos from long-gone tours; buy this book if you want to read about the tours. <br />This would be a good book for someone interested in becoming a \\"roadie\\" or stage crew member, and all the like, for it talks a lot about how and why the tours were as they were. It will require a lot of reading, so don't thing it is a simple page turner.  <br /> <br />If you love U2, want to know more about their tours, from the inside out, this book is for you. Get ready to read!	2005-02-17
US	15597912	R2REV4ZCUH0TLI	0340513586	39060140	The Life of Christ (Christian Classics)	Books	5	39	39	N	N	Top of the line in every whit	I collect books about the life of Christ. I look for the best authors, the best texts, and then make my purchase. I have been buying them for several years and have recently been halted by the lack of anything new and excited.   This text, by Farrar, is the best I have read. All others pale in contrast. It is my opinion that a lot of the best texts about the life of Christ came in the time of Farrar, if not before. These were men who went to the Holy Land, wrote histories, and had a talent for writing them. Some vary religiously from my own views, but all are commendable: most of all Farrar.  From the beginning of this text you feel as though you are in the Holy Land. The writing is clear and concise. The research is bold and pleasant. If you are looking for a doctrinal treatise, look elsewhere; for this text is a history in every sense. The people, the culture, the atmosphere, the food, the dress, everything becomes alive and clear. Farrar is a talented writer (also writing a wonderful text in the life of Paul and Early Christianity) whose perfectly clear and subtle style is fully compensated with a historian's touch. Its greatest strength is in the details and objectivity.    Any person wondering \\"what it was like\\" when Jesus lived should read this text. When considering his life, in the aspect of history wrapped in a well written text, there is no other text out there like this one. This one belongs to the Classic's of this subject and Farrar should be every Christian's mentor and every historian's icon.	2005-02-17
US	15597912	RBXRSC7N37RB9	0385336780	697500184	Broken Music: A Memoir	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Big Sting fan meets good String book	This is a good read for anyone who has interest in Sting. It is rare that one like him will write a book about themselves and publish it. It is a nice gesture back to us who love his music. <br />It is an easy and quick read. One thing to note is that it is about the beginnings (i.e. his birth, parents, hometown, early years, all the way up to starting The Police). I wish the book would have continued with information up to the present day, but it does not. Once The Police is formed, and the story is told, the book ends. This is my only problem with the book; I wanted more. In this text you will meet his parents, his home town, and the heart of a young boy who would go on to succeed in the world of music. Of course, this is all from a view of an older man looking back through time-- although it appears Sting did keep some great journals. <br />Sting looks back at a lot of things that happened in his young life and it begins to feel like a therapy session as we uncover what it all meant to him. For him it probably was therapy; for us, it was a trip down memory lane with one of our favorite musical icons.  <br />All fans should read this book and see the man behind the curtains. <br /> <br />	2005-02-11
US	15597912	R25EOGXPO2I42	0060731583	486983213	AMERICAN SOLDIER	Books	5	7	10	N	N	Absolutely AWESOME!	If you have any interest in the man that ran the Afgan and Iragi war; in the tactics used; of personal conversations with world leaders; and, in the soul of America's model soldier, this is the book for you.  <br />This is a brillianty written life story. We begin in the middle of Texas; go to college; get married; have a family; join the services; visit Vietnam; and, run two war campaigns. Each step along the way is detailed, simple to read, and full of insightful information. Never once do you say, \\"but why did'nt he tell us such and such?\\" All is told in great detail.  <br />I especailly loved the parts about the Afgan and Iragi wars. Not because I enjoy war, but I love to hear about the mind behind the action. We are taken through months of planning followed by its execution. Each of these periods of time are well documented and detailed. What an amazing armed forces we have, what anamazing mind we have in Gen. Franks, and what a great country we live in. Do you have doubts about the war, about the plan, about the tatics? Answers are found here... and it is from the \\"horses mouth!\\" (no dis-respect meant) <br />We get to see what exactly makes Gen. Franks what he is and who he became. As we read in the early years, we know he is bound for something great. I am forever grateful to Franks, and the countless many others, who have the heart and mind of soldiers followed by the courage to act. They are truly amazing people.  <br />My only complaint is the Gen. Franks did not run for President.  <br />THIS is a must read; it is for our day; it is about our wars; it is about our country; and, its our military; all exemplified in the exceptional life of one man: Tommy Franks.	2005-02-11
US	15597912	R3BCDHW3CPTDFU	0316346624	226933679	The Tipping Point: How Little Things Can Make a Big Difference	Books	3	8	10	N	N	Typical Gladwell, atypical text	I read Blink first then Tipping Point. I am glad I did because I enjoyed Blink much more. First, Gladwell writes similar in each text (he relies on psychological/behavioral/sociological research, situational analyisis and connections, and broad assumptions). Whether he is right or wrong is our, your, decision.  This book is easy to read and is written in a striaght forward and simple manner. This book is about social \\"epidemics.\\" Gladwell makes each of his points obvious, repeating himself at times to do so, and uses extensive (and usually interesting) research to make his points to the reader--This is the pro, and possible con, of his books. Its his typical interaction-- interesting research + central assumption/connection = bestseller. So far, he is right.   One thing to note is that when someone uses so many research and scientific references, all in a light and thin book, compacted together, it is difficult to know whether we are being taken for a ride or not. The complex mountain of information intimidates us to the loss of our proper scrutiny. We are overwhelmed at times. I know that in Tipping Point, I read a part about key innovators of an idea, particularily religious movements, and he mentioned Brigham Young (pg. 172) as mormonism's innovator. This is a mis-statement (it was Joseph Smith) that I was privy to notice; how many others did I or you miss?  So, as with Blink, this is a fun and interesting read. It is jam-packed with \\"fun\\" information that we have to digest and move over quickly without knowing with certainty. Many connections to research become vague and uncertain. I got lost and uninterested in this text with the Gore company. However, the main argument and idea for the book is thought-provoking and of worth.   I say, if you got a couple nights to consider socio-behavioral phenomena, then read Gladwell's books. Entertaining? yes. Thought-provoking? yes. Founded upon loose connections? you decide.	2005-02-10
US	15597912	R9KGHN7QNDQBZ	0671023373	104801902	Man's Search For Meaning	Books	5	6	6	N	N	MUST read!	I read this book in a college course which I am forever grateful for; I would not have read it if I didn't take this course. When it comes to reading a book that affects your life and its meaning, this books sets the standard. It provides a painful and true look into a dark and horrbile time in human history. Instead of standing at the fence and looking into the state of man in a concentration camp, we are offered a view from within the camp and the man. When you consider the survival and the perspective of the author, an actual survivor, life becomes inspiring and full of meaning.  <br />As humans we must pay attention to the lessons of history and the wisdom learned by those who lived it. In this case, we are presented with a message wrapped in horror. Yet, the outcome can be inspiration and change.  <br />The text is written in direct and simple langauge. Its level of thought and reading is certainly mature, but its significance is ageless! Empathy is born here. It is a wide-open glimpse into the heart and soul of a man who survived hell. <br /> <br />This book is a message for all. <br /> <br />	2005-02-08
US	15597912	R2739Y79QDVCSA	0884944425	877156166	Lectures on Faith	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A defining of faith by Joseph Smith	Although this text was written in the late 1830's, it is a solid look into LDS teachings and perspectives regarding faith. There are seven lectures total which break down what Joseph Smith taught about faith and how to properly exercise it. If one is seeking a quick, but thurough, insight into how Latter-Day saints view faith, the character of God, and other related topics, this is the book.  <br />The lectures are written in a forward and simple fashion. Nearly each lecture is followed by a Q&A-like presentation during which the previous lecture is explained and highlighted.  <br />If Bruce R McConkie and Joseph Fielding Smith, besides others, instructed the saints to read this work as though it were canon, then every LDS member ought to.  <br /> <br />When one is considering to read from any extra-scriptural sources regarding central concepts of the LDS faith, this is the book to begin with!	2005-02-08
US	15597912	R324GCZH6O8CAU	0446310786	994527755	To Kill a Mockingbird	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A classic which ought to be read	I was an English major and had never read some of the classics, such as this book is. So, I read it. I hate novels but found this text to be a delightful read. It is slow to get going but once you arrive at the courtroom scenes, it is all worth it. The characters are fun to get to know and the central message of the book is great. It is an easy book to read; thus, its prominence in high schools, and its a quick read too.  <br />Sometimes you read a novel and hope that there are some undertones present from which you can make some strong conclusions about what the author is trying to say. Some books fail at this entirely; this one doesn't. It is filled with subtle meaning and revelation. If you want to read a text that is simple to read and full of meaning, a true American classic, this is the one for you!	2005-02-08
US	15597912	R2SJOARXRK7DNE	1573221112	457800928	The Art of Happiness: A Handbook for Living	Books	5	6	7	N	N	How wonderful a life and book!	This book is a lesson in human will and wholesomeness. I am not of the Dalai Lama's faith, but I am a member of his world-wide gathering of respectors and admirers. I loved reading about him, his ability to master the self, and the message of the book-- human service. It is very well written and revealing. We get to see the Dalai Lama on stage, in meetings, and on his way to the car. In all situations, he is amazing and wonderful.   One does not have to be a religionist or Buddhist to appreciate the depth of the Dalai Lama and his life and teachings.  The Christian, atheist, or other religionist, has much to gain in reading this text. It holds the power to change one's life and is inspiring enough to provide the direction. I loved it.  The book is a written narration of a visit the author had with the Dalai Lama in AZ at a conference. He writes a little background about the Dalai Lama, the faith, and then spends most of the time demonstrating how the Dalai Lama lives his teachings. One minute the narrator describes the talk the Dalai Lama just gave, then we find ourserlves at the breakfast table in a one-on-one conversation with the Dalai Lama. It is a great read. It is a history, a narration, a visitation, and a disciples book all in one.	2005-02-08
US	15597912	R59Q9AS51P5PY	1593080417	453970176	Narrative of the Life of Frederick Douglass, an American Slave (Barnes & Noble Classics)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	A dramtic look into total darkness	When it comes to understanding what the slaves went through and the world from thier perspective, this book is totally enlightening. This is the voice of the slaves that went unheard. It is written in a manner easy to read and simple. Yet, the actual content is hard to read and not simple. It is a drak journey through the life of a slave who found freedom and lived to write about it. Despite the arguments concerning who wrote this book and about the possible censorship of it, it is still a worthy depiction and story to read.<br /><br />It is hard to read this text without feeling angry and dissappointed at white people (I am one), angry at Christians (I am one), and sad for history. This text is an emotional rollercoaster. You gain apprecaition for men like Douglass and despair for human ignorance.<br /><br />No matter what, this is a book that my own children shall be forced to read before they graduate from high school. After reading this book, and Victor Frankl's book, most normal people ought to interact in this world far different from the monster antagonists presented in each of the texts. As for me, I learned a lot and shall never recover.	2005-02-08
US	15597912	RJPDSL8T0WOW7	0316172324	968642731	Blink: The Power of Thinking Without Thinking	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Full of Thoughtful Information	This is a great book for anyone intersted in the mind, thinking, and decision making. It is not exhaustive in these areas, but entertaining and thought provoking. It is filled with interesting studies and info. that make you think and consider your ability to \\"blink.\\" If I were to rename this book, I'd call it \\"Instinct and Behavior: A Few Case Examples.\\"   I really did like the book. It made me think about my own instincts and unconscious thought and how real the hypothesis forwarded in this book may be. I am still considering it.    I did not like two particular things about the book: 1) It never really tells us how to get a hold of our unconscious thinking, i.e. to be better at it; 2) A few of the case studies seemed... not on target (i.e. they required insightful discoveries to see their applicability).   So, if you want some fun information about the mind (in the form of case studies) and our split-second decision capacity, buy it. If you want to walk away a better instinctual decision maker, with great understanding of the human psyche, don't buy it.    To fully enjoy this book, INTROSPECTIVE READING AND UNDERSTANDING IS NECESSARY. Don't like to have to think about what your reading to understand it? Run from this book.	2005-02-04
US	15597912	RNJQSFEFS8ZXP	0671739166	237012102	The Story of Philosophy: The Lives and Opinions of the World's Greatest Philosophers	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Wonderful Starter to Philosophy	This is a wonderful book and fun read! It is a very simple introduction to philosophy and the lives of some of its most important contributors. The author provides us with a glimpse into the lives of these men and also a touch of their teachings. It is, in all honesty, one of the best books I have ever read. I loved it all!  <br />The style is friendly and coherent. The presentaton of the teachings and ideas are made simple and direct. The lives of the men are well researched and interesting. Durant, in all his texts, has a way of always bringing to the top, the things that are of greatest interest and value. If you are intersted in quick but intelligent glimpses into history, then Durant ought to be your Virgil; he can guide you.    <br /> <br />Although this is not a book suited for a college course in philosophy (it is just a glimpse, for a detailed discussion of logic and reason are not conducted), there would be no better start for such a study than here. It leaves you pleasantly fed while hungry enough for more.   <br />	2005-02-02
US	15597912	RZSXYUG6U24T5	0671027360	141370518	Angels & Demons	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Get through the first 170 pgs...	This book starts of very slow. It takes its time to get exciting and fun. But once it does, it really becomes a fun and smart read. Because it is such an intelligently written book, throughout the read, you feel like you are in the Vatican. This book is not as great as the world renound Da Vinci Code, but it isn't a waste of time- Similar themes, similar energy, and similar plot. If you can get through the first 170 pgs, you may really like the book.    And, yes... the book's ending is quite implausible and cheesy!	2005-02-01
US	15597912	R3VBEQ7AZY5569	1592400876	436381860	Eats, Shoots & Leaves: The Zero Tolerance Approach to Punctuation	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Good reminder!	Listen, if you need help with punctuation, you probably need a big text book and several hours of serious study. No small, large print book will do the trick. However, if you want to brush up on a few things and smooth some rough edges, this book helps. The author is quite energetic and over-zealous about punctation (commas, colons, etc.) and its proper use; don't let that scare you off. It is filled with several quick lessons and facts that bring the whole puntuation picture together, piece by piece. It is a quick read and a fun one too. It is not the Bible of english grammar or punctuation, but what is? (i.e. everyone is in disagreement, everywhere)     If you want to quickly brush-up and move on, read it. If you want to be over-zealous yourself, write your own book.	2005-02-01
US	15597912	RNBVNSHLAJ9A0	0440136482	598516960	Holy Blood, Holy Grail	Books	3	12	30	N	N	Don't be so dramatic!!	I love to read all the other reviews of this book-- people can be so dramatic. Come on! I read this book long before I read the Da Vinci Code, along with some others from the same authors (i.e. Mr. Lincoln). Believe me, it isn't such a big deal!  This bookis presented as a \\"history\\" book and is drentched with tedious depth, dates, and connections. It is fun and exciting to read something apparently so deep and mysterious-- this book thrives on taking the reader on a ride through a history-mystery.   If this book (and all its connections and dates and names) is true, which the authors themselves can only speculate it is, then what? Is it the end of the Western Civilization or Christianity. My answer is no. Sometimes people look to anything, any source, to somehow gain strength in their cause or position. The positding of this book is simple: Christ was married to Mary Magdalene, they had children, these children were French kings and queens, they were protected by a secret (Sion) society, which society has had famous leader (Da Vinci) who protected, and revealed, the message/secret.   I found that this book was as flimsy an argument for a cause as one could create. After treading through dates, names, historical matters, and hidden messages, I became logged down and bored. I think that the only thing this book shares in common with an actual histroy text book is that they are both packed with information that boggs down the reader(s) and causes confusion.   The author(s) himself states that he is an athiest in the first few chapters. Thus, very early we are aware of the author's bias.   The authors ask us over and over to make connections and assumptions about their research, when history or the available record is vacant. Usually, these assumptions and connections are in their favor and stretched. This book allows for a good stretch in almost all its presentation.  As for the book's style, it is really extensive and packed with information. The book presents itselfas a very over-zealous date and name recorder. It is a maze of information. This maze makes it difficult to stay interested and excited. It is almost on the level with a dull text book, in its tone and presentation. This, however, was probably done on purpose-- it sells the product, if you know what I mean.   I applaude the effort and apparent \\"research\\" that this book employs. This book was not written over night and has certainly caused a firestorm.       The whole crux of the conclusions and assumptions, made in this book, as in the Da Vinci Code, rely upon the facts surrounding the life of Berenger Sauniere and a man named St Clair. If Sauniere's story of wealth and mystery can be attributed to some unknown discovery and Catholic conspiracy, then this book may be something; but, pull out from underneath it this story of Berenger, then you have a mess and loss of the \\"first cause\\", so to speak.   There are a lot of uncovered plots and documents emerging against this text and it becomes more and more a stretch each time something new is uncovered. Its premise made Dan Brown a lot of money, made me very excited, and made people crazy. In the end, this maze of information is slighted by emerging truths.	2005-02-01
US	15597912	R1YOTNY5KESPNI	1589580206	479694295	Hugh Nibley: A Consecrated Life	Books	5	7	11	N	N	It doesn't get any better!!	I have read many Latter-day Saint Bios, and many non-LDS one's, and this is the best of them all. Boyd Petersen is remarkable in his writing style, presentation, scholarship, and detail. I imagine that if there were a college class on \\"How to Write a Good Bio,\\" this book would be the manual! It truly does not get any better than this! There really is no better source about this man than this book; and you would be hard pressed to find it in any better presentation!  Hugh Nibley may only be an LDS known scholar, but when it comes to a man's legacy and impact upon the world around him, you would be hard pressed to find another as successful and powerful as Nibley. In this honest and 'bare all' approach, Petersen allows us the glimpse into the life of a man whose intellect and impact rivals any other man or woman who has ever lived. The reader quickly becomes aware of the fact that they are reading about a life that will have forever changed the world. \\"Hugh Nibleys\\" only come around once in a while. He is a man that could, and did, raise the level of scholarship, study and human knowledge. He could have been anything he wanted. If you are looking for a book that is well written and about an amazing subject... this book is for you.     In my next life... I want to come back as Hugh Nibley, or at least have his brain! Perhaps, the most brilliant man of our day!	2005-01-29
US	15597912	R266RSLX0B9VZ1	1590382056	307108490	The Bruce R. McConkie Story: Reflections of a Son	Books	4	6	9	N	N	Good, but not great!	Bruce R McConkie's doctrinal sermons and books forever changed Mormonism by taking things to a new level. I have been a long time \\"fan\\" of BRM and his accomplishments. As much as I liked this book, I found it redundant at times, more autobiographical at times, and slightly scattered and chopy. However, I do appreciate the book and the insight it does offer into the life of BRM. Glad it was written! <br />Besides the fact that the book does not flow well, repeats itself oft, and is certinaly a biased approach (as a son ought to be, of course) the last two chapters are worth the reading. I must say that I was as touched by reading the last two chapters as I have ever been in any other book I have read. The journey may be jumpy and slightly rough, but the end is quite beautiful and touching.	2005-01-29
US	15597912	R30ESEN5JPKHLJ	0960170642	513827584	Power Reading Course Book with Audio Countdown Timing CD: The Best, Fastest, Easiest, Most Effective Course on Speedreading and Comprehension Ever Developed!	Books	2	11	14	N	N	Think twice before buying	I have recenlty become very involved in speed reading and techniques. I want to find the best means out there. I bought this book (and CD) because of the great reviews; it seemed recent and good. However, this is not a book about speed reading! It is about getting more from your reading experience- i.e. some speed and some comprehension. It is filled with techniques about how to read a text, how to take notes, how to learn, and other such \\"learning\\" devices. If you are looking for a speed reading book, this is not the one. I would recommend this book to a high school or new college student. It is really just a general approach to learning and reading. There are some interesting \\"facts\\" stated in the book (such as the brian's ability to only reach 900 wpm) but no earth shattering technique to help with speed reading is provided. Nothing! As a matter of fact, the book spends so much time trying to challenge the reader to continually do the practices, it forgot to provide some meaningful practices and techniques.  <br />I don't doubt the author knows somethings about learning and reading... but as for actual speed reading, it is a disappointment.  <br />I have recenlty tried EyeQ and found it beneficial in the sense that my eyes feel much stronger and are able to read more for longer amounts of time. Speed increased; but nothing earth shattering, yet. Good program to start with.	2005-01-29
