US	16056234	R38T0M1TCTITDI	0861713761	752621245	Eihei Dogen: Mystical Realist	Books	4	22	26	N	N	An engaging study	Kim's work has won the praise of many, not least Robert Aitken Roshi, an American with a lifetime's experience of Zen training. In his foreword to the third edition, Aitken Roshi stated:   <br /> <br /> \\"this revised edition . . .now includes many new translations and studies of Dogen, and thus it is most welcome. Dogen wrote at the outermost edge of human communication, touching with every sentence such mysteries as self and other, self and non-self, meditation and realization, the temporal and the timeless, forms and the void.@He wrote of the attitude necessary for understanding, of the practice required. . .of the various insights that emerge, and of the many pitfalls. He did not generally write for beginners - most of his points require very careful study and a few of them elude almost everybody. These challenges are compounded by his creative use of the Japanese language. It has been said that he wrote in \\"Dogenese,\\" for he made verbs of nouns, nouns of verbs, created new metaphors, and manipulated old sayings to present his particular understanding. . . \\"  <br /> <br /> Prof. Kim's study has been based on a careful reading of Dogen's chosen idioms. He has endeavoured to amplify Dogen's understanding of 'do-ri' - or 'reason of the way.' Kim is keen to show that Dogen's use of Zen language is not merely provisional or instrumental, but embodies a 'realisational' dimension. This is exemplified in the notion of the 'genjo-koan' or koan realised in the present, which is to say, actualised in every day activity. In this way, Kim endeavours to show that Dogen's Zen culminates in ' the great way of total exertion' (gujin no daido) or the total actualisation of practice as realization. Kim is a foremost interpreter of Dogen's thought - and, as such, this book deserves a place in every Buddhist library. My only reservation about this study, is that it might have made better sense of the question of how the so-called 'instrumentalist' aspect of koan practice relates tothe 'realizational' aspect. Quite rightly, Kim is at pains to point out that accounts of Zen which stress the 'instrumentalist' view of koan practice - and that alone, are one sided, and he has therefore endeavoured to illustrate a different perspective. However, without reflection, we might be left to conclude that Rinzai Zen favours the 'instrumentalist' view - and Soto, the 'realizational' view. Kim knows better, and indeed, in places (p. 165), he has cited certain remarks from Dogen, which concede that the term 'genjo-koan' originated with Engo - a Rinzai master of the Sung, evidently meaning that Rinzai practitioners have appreciated the 'realizational' aspect. As such, the critical references to (Dai-e) Ta-hui which appear elsewhere in the book, seem strangely out of tenor with this fact. Yuan-wu (Engo) was Ta-hui's teacher, and the latter must surely have known of his master's references to the genjo-koan. Conversely, much as we might identify Dogen's Zen with 'shikantaza' (just-sitting), playing down the instrumentalist approach, Dogen also had his experience of 'casting off mind and body' (shinjindatsuraku) - a breakthrough experience more or less akin to that realised by Rinzai followers. Perhaps Prof. Kim will enlighten us on this unresolved problem, at some future point.	2005-10-14
US	16056234	RX0KLL1F6DVC3	082481746X	269216029	Rude Awakenings: Zen, the Kyoto School, & the Question of Nationalism (Nanzan Library of Asian Religion and Culture)	Books	4	31	32	N	N	Thought provoking	In view of the challenge this book has posed for the Western Buddhist community, it was surprising to find but one review for it - on Amazon. com. Published ten years ago (Hawaii Uni Press) the material edited by James Heisig and John C. Maraldo puts Zen in a decidedly critical spotlight, effectively tracing the historical precedents linking Zen Buddhism, the State, Nationalism and - Militarism. Read alongside Daizen Victoria's 'Zen at War/Zen to Senso,' (Weatherhill, 1997), it is obvious that we need to review the ethical bases of Zen and face the fact that it has been put to some distinctly 'un-buddhist' uses. Hence, the rather derisory title -'Rude Awakenings.      While such issues have elicited concern in the Western Buddhist community, the ties between Zen and the martial arts hardly raise an eyebrow in other quarters and even seem to bestow a 'normative' perspective on things. After all, Zen became the adopted religion of the Samurai, the Japanese warrior caste. It is often said that true exponents of Budo see their arts as a way of sublimating aggression. That is probably true of the best sort of Budo practitioners and it would be mean spirited to see the traditional samurai as blood thirsty brigands, who like violence for its own sake.  Encyclopaedia Brittanica - surely an objective source, has described the Samurai as one of the most efficient fighting forces known to history, for the most part displaying high mindedness and a strong sense of discipline.          Nevertheless, whatever it meant in Japan's feudal past, the saying 'Zen ken ichinyo' - or that 'The way of Zen and the way of the sword - are the same' has been grossly exploited in the context of modern state power - and indeed, used as a cover to glorify sheer brutality. Like Daizen Victoria's book, the essays found in the present volume explore the way that Buddhist language has been exploited to serve ulterior motives i.e. - to further the self-interest of power groups and ultimately, in themodern context - the State. Moreover, contrary to what might be supposed, this strange alliance and the terms of thinking underpinning it, did not come to an end with the cessation of hostilities at the close of W.W. 2. In modified form, it survived as part of the Japanese corporate mentality - or as a vehicle to help sustain it. Furthermore, elements of it have informed the Kyoto-school of philosophy - which, despite the kudos it has enjoyed in the West, might need to be thought-through, all over again.      Like Daizen Victoria's book, this  material is a 'wake-up call' for Western students of Buddhism. Nevertheless, as with the 'Critical Buddhist' movement as a whole, there are points where the arguments in this book become overly generalised and jejune. For instance, one wonders if it makes any historical sense to fault Prince Shotoku's 'Constitution'  of 604 A.D. because it didn't function like a modern one? Still, accepting the limitations of feudal society for what they are - or were, it would be fallacious to assume that it has all been a question of base 'yea-saying' in accordance with the hierarchical pecking order. Despite its surface politeness, Hakuin Zenji's long letter to Ikeda, governor of Iyo (Iyo no kame) - which appears in Hakuin's Zenshu under the title Hebiiichigo, was virtually a diatribe and written as an act of social justice. To my knowledge, nothing like it, penned by anyone of eminence in the Japanese Buddhist establishment, found its way to the authorities in the modern era. Bearing this in mind, it seems problematic and somewhat unjust, to draw a line through Japanese history, seeing the old alliance between the Zen establishment and the Bushi/samurai as a precursor to Zen's role in the emergence of modern Japanese state nationalism. Under the Meiji, traditional samurai families were disenfranchised and no longer determined strategy or decision making, a privilege reserved for a centralised high command, whose desire for 'lebensraum' (tobe blunt - a wholesale invasion of S.E. Asia) would have seemed incomprehensible to samurai leaders of yore.      In a mytho-poeic sense, perhaps, the ideologues who drove Japan down the road to war in the 20th c. had exploited  'traditional' imagery and archetypes. Nevertheless, like Hitler's invocation of the 'volk' - and the Nazi philosophy of 'blut und boden' - the images invoked were hollow caricatures. The causes underlying the rise of modern nationalism are complex, but wherever it has manifested, it has depended upon idealised abstractions. Yet these have been but remotely connected with the realities of the past. 'Emperor worship' has frequently been blamed as one of the sustaining causes of modern Japanese nationalism, but in actual fact, the military government which seized control of Japan in the 1930's had little respect for the Emperor.@Moreover, historically speaking, the exercise of power in Japan has often rested in the hands of a Shogun, rather than the Royal family. In other words, it is has been an arbitrary lust for power, rather than definite social entity or status quo which has invoked trouble. Modern nationalism is very abstract and faceless, hence its need to exploit the past - including religious imagery, in the hope of giving itself substance.We ought to exercise caution here, lest we blame the unworthy deeds - on the worthy, and ignoble deeds - upon the noble./	2005-10-01
US	16056234	R32K6B6BFXADEJ	0688163521	262801531	The Importance Of Living	Books	5	31	32	N	N	A delightful book to savour	Lin-Yutang (1895-1976) a Chinese humanist and humourist, was<br /><br />steeped in the ancient wisdom of his motherland. Lin-yutang was also a cosmopolitan. Educated at Saint Johns University in Shanghai, he went on to take his Master's degree at Harvard, then his doctorate at the University of Leipzig. His two most well known writings 'My Country and My People' (1935) and 'The Importance of Living' (1937) brought him international fame, the latter a perennial classic and best seller for decades. A decent reprint of this remarkable book has long been overdue. Happily, the Singapore based publisher, Cultured Lotus, has made a new edition available.  The positive reviews were gratifying to see.<br /><br /> This isn't a book to read in a hurry. As the cover-blurb puts it: \\"offered as a remedy to modern day living, is the classic distillation of Chinese wisdom, revere inaction as much as action , observe the place of humour to ensure healthy living, and simply celebrate existence. Gaily serious, cynicaly kind, shot through with a sense of comedy and backed by sages of many centuries, it brings forth the salt and tang of life.<br /><br /> Lin Yutang observes: \\" a man who loves life intensely must be always jealous of the few exquisite moments of leisure that he has. And he must retain the dignity and pride of the vagabond. His hours of fishing must be as sacred as his hours of business, erected into a kind of religion as the English have done with sport. \\"<br /><br /> Superficially, one might see such a philosophy as a refusal to take life seriously - but, Lin Yutang's perspective here is summed up by the quotation from Chang chao:<br /><br /> \\"Only those who take leisurely what the people of<br /><br />  the world are busy about can be busy about what<br /><br />  the people of the world take leisurely. \\"<br /><br /> Hence, what this outlook refuses to embrace is the notion that the only meaningful activity open to us - is that which is purpose driven, against which, leisure time will be evaluated as 'dead time.' Lin Yutang reminds us of the positive, living potentialities of 'leisure' time. Much of this is of Taoist inspiration, but like the ancient Greeks, even Confucius recognised that human life is meaningless, if reduced to repetitive, merely utilitarian processes.<br /><br /> Lin Yutang's thought ranges over many aspects of life. Not everything said in this book reflects the 'oriental' point of view (he knew Europe and America)- or Taoist wisdom. Whatever he touches on, usually elicits some witty fact or observation. Nevertheless, many - if not most readers, find Lin-Yutang at his most compelling when digressing on the finer details of ancient Chinese culture, be it the appreciation of tea and incense, eminent Chinese painters and poets - and their works. Although but sixteen pages, the 'Critical Chinese Vocabulary' Lin-Yutang appended to this text is immensely interesting and worth its weight in gold, when it comes to unpacking the delicate shades of meaning permitted by the combination of various Chinese characters. This is a charming and delightful book.	2005-09-26
US	16056234	R3HWPY059DCFU1	0195133145	294895121	Tibetan Yoga and Secret Doctrines: Seven Books of Wisdom of the Great Path, According to the Late Lama Kazi Dawa-Samdup's English Rendering	Books	5	25	25	N	N	a classic source	Along with the companion volumes making up the Tibetan Series edited by W.Y. Evans-Wentz, this book broke new ground when first published in 1935,effectively placing the first, full length translations of authentic Tibetan Buddhist teachings within our reach. Despite the passage of time and a prolific increase in the number of such translations, the material made available by W.Y. Evans-Wentz and his mentors remains some of the most lucid at our disposal. As W.Y. Evans-Wentz put it: \\". . .my aim has been to place on record not only a catena of carefuly made translations of texts . . .but also a body of orally transmitted traditions and teachings relating to the texts, which I received from the late Lama@Kazi Dawa Samdup, who was my Tibetan Guru. . .\\" - hence, the emphasis throughout is essentially practical. In fact, W.Y. Evans-Wentz hinted that the present volume may well be found to be the most valuable, inasmuch as it gives the very texts of some of the principal yogas and meditations which many of the most illustrious Tibetan and Indian philosophers, including Tilopa, Naropa, Marpa and Milarepa, employed in attaining Right Knowledge \\" (i.e. samyak sambodhi).  <br /> <br /> The shortened titles of these seven texts are as follows:  <br /> <br /> (1) Gampopa's Supreme Path, called 'The Precious Rosary. ' <br /> (2) The Epitome of the Great Symbol. <br /> (3) The Epitome of the Six Doctrines <br /> (4) The Transference of Consciousness <br /> (5) The Method of Eradicating the Lower Self. <br /> (6) The Fivefold Wisdom of the Long Hum <br /> (7) The Essence of the Transcendental Wisdom.  <br /> <br />  Briefly summed up as 'Seven Books of Wisdom of the Great Path' - what we actually find here is a compendium of all the major doctrines and practices known to Tibetan Buddhism, as rooted in the Mahayana- although some practices, such as 'Pho-wa' (transference of consciousness) seem  to be peculiarly Tibetan - even though utilised in an orthodox Buddhist context. Special commentaries precede each carefully rendered text, a wealth of information at the reader's disposal.  <br /> <br /> In recent years, some critics have questioned the approach taken by W.Y. Evans-Wentz. It is worth quoting W.Y. E-W again: \\" this volume is meant at once for the exact scholar and for the general reader. The former will note that the original textual sources, which are sevenfold, are authentic, and that nothing has been incoporated into the texts or presented in the introductions and annotations which has not had doctrinal sanction. \\"  <br /> <br /> Earlier editions of this text had a preface and tribute by Prof Chen Chi Chang, a Chinese Buddhist scholar who not only practiced Tibetan Buddhism with leading Lamas, but also had an honorary Tibetan title bestowed upon him - Cha-gyur Khan-po (Master interpreter/translator). W.Y. Evans Wentz was Rhodes scholar with impeccable qualifications. However, he was no dry-as-dust academic. Something of a scholar-gypsy-cum-pilgrim, W-Y Evans-Wentz wandered around N. India, Sikkhim, Tibetan communities etc., sitting at the feet of genuine Buddhist teachers, before that world was turned upside down by political upheaval. These are valuable sources.	2005-09-20
US	16056234	R2ABI19QDZPGKF	0451626818	488153584	I Ching (Mentor Series)	Books	5	18	18	N	N	Still worthy of perusal, a hundred years later!	[...] Over several runs, all I got - after keying it in, were references to a recent study of Legge's career as a Christian missionary.<br /><br /> That is a pity, because Legge gave us our first, full length translation of the Yi-Ching - directly into English, as part of Max Muller's 'Sacred Books of the East' series. As such, we are still indebtted to Legge. Inevitably, Legge's translation was followed by others - not least, the Wilhelm/Baynes Yi-Ching, now regarded by many as the definitive version. Others have followed - and, understandably, many would now regard Legge's rendering as somewhat passe. Two things have worked against Legge's favour here - the rather unhelpful layout of his material (complicated by an obscure transcription of Chinese names/terms) - and, Legge's occasionally pedantic manner, evident in foot-notes etc., reflecting the stiffer side of his Victorian Christian background.<br /><br /> Still, these faults notwithstanding, Legge's translation per se was in fact quite good. As Raymond Van Over has remarked in his introduction to this revamped edition of Legge's Yi-Ching: \\"Some criticize Legge for his strict scholarship and point to Wilhelm's identification with the Yi-Ching . . .as evidence for preferring the Wilhelm/Baynes translation. This merely indicates a lack of familiarity with Legge's material. Although Legge was more of a sceptic and less of a mystic than Wilhelm, he was nevertheless an inspired translator - one who recognised the need for a creative identification with the original author that went beyond syntax and grammatical knowledge. As Legge explained, 'the written characters of the Chinese are not representations of words, but symbols of ideas, and not representation of what the writer would say, but of what he thinks.' Thus, the translator supplies not just equivalents, as in translating from one Western language to another, but the syntax itself - the thought of the writer. This is a difficult task and takes scholarship, empathy and humility. As Raymond Van Over goes on to say - \\" To make his translation readable and at the same time indicate what he had supplied himself, Legge enclosed in parentheses  his own connective words and phrases. This convention is at first glance disturbing to the reader, but one soon becomes accustomed to it and has the satisfaction of knowing what is in the original and what is merely the translator's reading of the source. In his description of the translator's mood, Legge describes the attitude not only of the wise translator, but also of the questioner of the Yi- Ching.<br /><br /> \\"When the symbolic characters have brought his mind en rapport with that of his author - there is not so much an interpretation of the characters employed by the writer as a participation of his thoughts - there is a SEEING OF MIND TO MIND \\" (reviewer's capitals).<br /><br /> To say the least, this is a far cry from some of our latter-day Yi-Ching translator/interpreters, who seem to be working with the motto 'obscurem per obscuris' - that the more ill formed and chaotic a translation of Yi-Ching text happens to be, the closer it must be to the original. Happily, not all contemporary Yi-Ching scholarship is conducted in this manner. Scholars the calibre of Richard Rutt impart a  genuine sense of continuity to Western Yi-Ching studies. But we might divest ourselves of the thought that everything new is better. For all his Victorian traits, Legge was an astute and gifted translator, his version of the Yi-Ching having life in it yet.<br /><br /> Convinced of its merits as a translation, but aware of its drawbacks, vis-a-vis layout, transcription etc., Raymond Van Over has effectively re-arranged the order of Legge's Yi Ching material, modified the transcription etc.- to make it more amenable to contemporary readers. He has provided the text with a fresh introduction (Legge's original Preface and Introduction appears at the back), notes about divination etc. The text comes complete with Legge's appendixes, the Ta-Chuan etc., and extensive references to the Chinese classics cited in the Yi-Ching, which Legge had translated as independent works. Facsimiles of Legge's manuscript published under 'Sacred Books of the East' are fairly easy to get. But for sheer handiness, Raymond Van Over's revamped p/back edition, put out by Mentor Books, is highly recommended.-Chuan etc., and extensive references to the Chinese classics cited in the Yi-Ching, which Legge had translated as independent works. Facsimiles of Legge's manuscript published under 'Sacred Books of the East' are fairly easy to get. But for sheer handiness, Raymond Van Over's revamped p/back edition, put out by Mentor Books, is highly recommended.	2005-09-16
US	16056234	R22N33GQ1PYNX3	0005992753	174795895	Julian's Way: A Practical Commentary on Julian of Norwich	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A useful and sympathetic study	<br /> As the publisher's cover-notes suggest, the merit of Sister Ritamary Bradley's study of Mother Julian's 'Showings' (or 'Revelations of Divine Love') is that - by \\"exploring Julian's long text by themes, instead of analysing it chapter by chapter, new perspectives and fresh insights are opened up for Julian studies, for students of mysticism, for women's studies and for spiritual directors, as well as for the general reader who is trying to find a guide for prayer and a context for healing. \\" <br /> <br />  <br /> The ubiquitious presence of the so-called 'Julian meetings' - now a world-wide phenomenon, says a lot about the appeal of Mother Julian's spiritual counsel. As a Christian of the pre-reformation era, we might feel tempted to categorize Julian's outlook as 'dated' - or at least, expect it to be bounded by patriarchal assumptions that no longer wear well with us in our own age. However, drawing on orthodox patristic and biblical themes, Julian develops her idea of God and Christ as Mother, thus anticipating the contemporary tendency to stress the 'maternal' and 'feminine' aspect of the Godhead. Here, we must remember that Julian was doing her best to articulate what was shown to her via a mystical experience, or a series of such experiences - another matter from devising or formulating theology. Like other Christian mystics, for whom living experience of the divine 'word' was paramount, and the rational justification of it - secondary, part of the challenge involved with trying to understand Julian's showings, is that while never declared to be heterodox, certain elements present in the 'shewings' are, in some respects, hard to reconcile with the Church's more rigid definitions of 'original sin' (cf. St. Augustine)and divine 'wrath' etc. In Julian's experience, that kind of wrath has virtually been expunged from the image or presence of God. While Julian saw that 'sin' blinds us spiritually and thus effectively alienates us from God, she was inclinedto stress our original unity with, rather than our alienation - from God. Rather Taoistically one might say, Julian saw that our awareness of 'sin' - is what helps to bring us back to the Godhead. This is not antinomianism, but the rightful state of affairs, if we are not to confound the Christian doctrine with that of Manicheism, which posited an absolute evil. In this respect, I dare say that the material appearing between pages 60-152 (How Does Julian Behold Reality?)will garner much attention.I have stressed these aspects, bcause they seemed of contemporary relevance. All too often, Christianity is presented as a guilt-ridden doctrine. As a late medieval Christian contemplative, Julian of Norwich evidently recognised the existence of sin. However, she endeavoured to understand it, declaring it to be 'behovable' - in God's scheme of things, and promised that \\"All shall be well\\" in the fulness of God. The small chapel dedicated to Mother Julian on the site where her recluses's cell used to be, in Norwich, has a tangible aura of spiritual peace and well-being. I feel that Sister Ritamary Bradley's study will aid a true appreciation of Mother Julian's 'Revelations of Divine Love.'	2005-09-13
US	16056234	R246QWNNXJSUIU	0804811903	262160622	Zen Way Jesus Way	Books	3	19	21	N	N	A highly successful failure!	This is a difficult book to review. The title gives you the impression it is a kind of Christian-Buddhist synthesis - but, it isn't. It is an American Christian's view of Buddhism which - on balance, places its onus on the former. While this is not stated with triumphalist postures - Buddhist images and technicalities are often handled sensitively, Callaway has a tendency to get rather black and white with his summaries. Topical narratives are conveyed pleasantly - especially anecdotes drawn from the author's long years of experience visiting or staying at Buddhist temples. Some of these are well worth reading. For me, the most engaging portion of the text was the dialogue between Tucker Callaway and D.T. Suzuki - showing both at their imaginative and creative best. This was rendered fruitful by the fact that it embraced elements of Jodo (Pure Land) of 'faith-based' Buddhism, in which Amida-Buddha occupies a rather Jesus-like role, insofar as his followers call upon him, much as Christians call upon Christ. In fact, in the course of this dialogue, Suzuki pointed out that 'Pure-land' and Zen Buddhism are more akin than is often supposed, the distinction between Zen as 'ji-riki' (self-power) and  Pure Land as 'tariki' (other-power) - by no means absolute. <br />  <br /> Alas, if Callaway had recalled such remarks when presenting some of his summaries, things would have been presented somewhat differently. There are two distinct currents in this book - what Callaway is reporting, and what derives from his speculative considerations. Some of his speculative definitions seem shaky. Striking a comparative note between Buddhism and Christianity, Callaway defines the former as 'Non-dualistic idealism' and the latter as grounded in a 'pluralistic materialism.' Stated as such, that is hardly more than a generalisation. As it happens, the foundations of Christian theology were not based on a pluralistic materialism, and whether related to its classical roots (e.g. the early Church fathers), Thomas Aquinas, or the speculations of Bishop Berkeley, one might argue that Christianity also constitutes a kind of idealism, rather than a pluralistic materialism. At the end of the day, all Callaway's remarks mean here, is that insofar as the scientific outlook now prevails in the West, the early Christian world-view has been supplanted by a materialist one. Even though they nominally live side-by-side, many of us now assume that it is science which affords the authentic viewpoint for mapping out reality. Not all Christians share that view, and it remains to be seen whether they would all happily subscribe to the idea of Christianity (or the 'Jesus Way') being based on a 'pluralistic materialism.' This is not to say that all the observations in this book are fruitless. They just need to be taken cum grano salis, at times. It was interesting to hear Suzuki concede that the Buddhist notion of 'acceptance' can sometimes be counter-productive, insofar as it might discourage us from taking positive action to improve or change things. There are some fruitful anecdotes here, but they are mixed up with generalisations. This book would have benefitted from a broader view of Christianity (e.g. Eckhart, The Cloud of Unknowing' etc.) - in a form more suitable for dialogue with Buddhism.	2005-09-13
US	16056234	R2Q0DAEUG792G7	1859580572	264578159	The Mysteries of Britain: Secret Rites and Traditions of Ancient Britain	Books	5	16	17	N	N	A classic source	A prolific writer, Lewis Spence (1874-1955) was dedicated to the 'Celtic Revival' of the late 19th/early 20th c. 'The Mysteries of Britain' was his crowning work in this respect, containing a wealth of material - which, in one form or another, has seen reprints, with minor changes of title, ever since its first appearance (1929). This Bracken Books/Studio Edition reprint comes complete with a facsimile of the illustrations Wendy Wood produced for the Ist ed.      Some would say that 'Celtic revivals' are problematic, and 'Neo-Celtic' fads even more so. Peter Berresford Ellis - a contemporary authority on Celtic culture, has asked how we can re-invent an unknown past, without substituting fantasy for reality? How far can the 'Celtic' tag can be stretched, before it becomes meaningless.  It cannot be coined with intrinsic meaning, if simply a hook for frustrated urbanites to hang their 'pagan' wish fulfilments upon. Still, regressive questioning of this kind can go too far. Even the 'serious' revivalists of the late 19th c. have been viewed with suspicion.     Without being naive, Lewis Spence was confident with his sources. Keen to savour Celtic culture in all its forms, be it that of his native Scotland, Ireland, the Isle of Mann, Cornwall etc., Spence felt that the Druidic/Bardic tradition had been preserved - at its best, in Welsh sources. Thus, he esteemed the work of Iolo Morganwg/J. Williams ab Ithel/Llwelyn Sion  - e.g. the Welsh triads, the Barddas etc. - as genuine, even though this had been viewed with suspicion by some of his peers, and remains controversial to this day. Spence regarded such material as genuine, adducing his reasons in chapter III - the 'Mystery of Celtic Philosophy,' and chapter IV,titled 'Barddas.' This is but one aspect of Spence's book - but, given the seminal importance of the Barddas in the Celtic revival , and the often careless remarks heaped upon it by  detractors, it is pleasant to hear the book appraised in positive terms. Forhis own part, Spence claimed that he had seen transcripts of material - attributed to Llywelyn Sion, which pre-dated Iolo's sources, thus demolishing the notion that Iolo had fabricated the material. Some of this material was in Raglan Castle. The manuscript of Llywelyn Sion, transcribed by Edward Davydd, was still extant in the Library of Llan Haran, Glamorganshire. Hence, - 'What' Spence asks, 'is there improbable in all this? He goes on to note that much of the mytho-poeic imagery involved, mythical cycles etc., also appear in the Mabinogion and other such sources, which are beyond dispute. Hence, Spence says: 'It seems to me, indeed, highly improbable that (Llywelyn) Sion 'invented' this mystical progression . . .     I have singled this material out, and Spence's remarks about it, because texts like the Barddas have, in effect, served as handbooks to sustain the 'Celtic revival.' So far as Spence was concerned, its 'triads' etc., preserve the 'mysteries of Britain' - understood as an inner doctrine. The external factors - megalithic sites, such as Stonehenge, or so-called 'burial chambers' such as 'New Grange' etc., are or were, merely the external vehicle through which such inner principles unfolded in a deeply symbiotic relationship. Spence also looks at the empirical aspects, discussing the possible function of megalithic sites, underground chambers etc. Once viewed as crude edifices, presumably tokens of a crude culture, modern archeologists now know that such megalithic sites embody a very precise knowledge of the stars and their movements, with exact allignments and progressions to mark the procession of equinoxes, solstices etc. In short, mathematical precision of a very high order. Believe me, it is a moving experience to await the Winter Solstice inside a 'beehive vault' such as that found at New Grange, watching the fingers of the dawning sun work their way along the narrow passage, until they strike the central altar (owing to a phenomenon called 'precession,' and the lapse of time, this no longer happens exactly on the solstice day ). It is science - plus magic. Spence had his own theories about the origins of British/proto-Celtic  culture, citing sources in N.W. Africa, Berber and Basque people etc., sources strangely confirmed by genetic research, decades after Spence wrote his book. In other respects, almost in defiance of his own findings, Spence had the urge to celebrate the 'mysteries of Britain' as a kind of nationalistic - or at least, highly indigeneous trait. In other respects, he referred to Morien O. Morgan, another 'Druid' revivalist from Glamorgan, who ultimately linked the Druidical system with a kind of parent Indo-European source. Peter Berresford Ellis has noted the links between classical Indian and ancient Irish music. Phoneticaly, certain elements of ancient Irish are virtually the same as Sanskrit (e.g. 'madhya'= middle/mean; 'san scroight' - 'holy writ' etc.)  If anything, what we now call 'Celtic' culture finds reverberations and echoes world-wide. There are definite correspondences between the Ainu language and Celtic. Prof. Barry Fell (Harvard) has found Celtic (Ogham) inscriptions in N. America, dating back before the Christian era. This upsets all the comfortable ideas about absolutely distinct cultures. We may have to accept the fact that centuries before Christ, there was a kind pan-Celtic culture, linking the 'mysteries of Britain' with far flung places like Hokkaido, and ancient artifacts found in Vermont etc.	2005-09-13
US	16056234	R12X72C1F6771H	1573926809	796453034	Looking for a Miracle: Weeping Icons, Relics, Stigmata, Visions & Healing Cures	Books	1	17	50	N	N	Questionable approach	This book is a tribute to the author's 'will to disbelief' rather than an objective assessment. Even the most hardened of sceptics has to concede that a substantial percentage of the claims made in the name of the supernatural - e.g. weeping icons, stigmata etc. cannot be 'explained away' by science or rational methodologies. They occupy a realm where rational, scientific method per se, is neither able to refute nor to confirm. The general drift of Joe Nickell's book is that, one way or another, most such things involve deception. However, that is is not necessarily the opinion of the scientific community. The spontaneous image which subsequently became known as 'Our Lady of Guadalupe' - remains unexplained. No paint pigments could be found in it. Scientists are equally unable to account for the multiplying number of 'weeping madonnas' etc. Signs of the stigmata have also been examined by scientists, and pronounced inexplicable, rather than denied. It is, in fact, irrational and unscientific - against mounting empirical evidence - to try and 'explain away' all such things.	2005-09-12
US	16056234	R1JEKS4UXOVI29	0786709871	892339115	A Brief History of the Druids (The Brief History)	Books	5	11	13	N	N	A good introduction	PBE is a foremost authority on the Celts. He has made a name for himself with The Celtic Empire (1990), Celt & Saxon (1993), Celt & Greek (1997), Celt & Roman (1998) and The Ancient World of the Celts (1998). Despite the modest title of the present work, the author has scoured dozens of classical sources (Latin, Celtic etc.) to flesh out this well informed study of Druidism.       This book first appeared in h/cover format in 1994, receiving good reviews. Now retitled 'A Brief History of the Druids' and re-issued in p/back(2002), this carefully researched yet immensely readable book will reach an even wider readership. It has won good reviews on both sides of the Atlantic, the sheer catholicity of its appeal amazing, be it praise from the 'Times Higher Education Supplement,' in a review by Count Nikolai Tolstoy (descendant of the renowned Russian author) or the report in the 'Fortean Times,'praising Ellis's book for the 'wealth of material' in its pages. Colin Wilson, well known for his writings on alternative religion etc. described Ellis's arguments as \\"sensible and convincing, his chapter on the wisdom of the Druids. . . the highlight of the book \\" (review in the London Evening Standard).           This book is eye opening, exploring the many faceted dimensions of Druidism as a religion on par with Brahminism, evidently sharing some sort of ancient Aryan ancestry. How startlingly exact this can be, at times, is evident in the account of the Classical Indian musicologist who had been listening to a particular form of ancient Irish music, convinced that it was Indian, until alerted to the fact it was indeed Irish!      Ellis concedes that 'new age Celt' and 'neo-Druidism' poses certain problems - when much of the popular literature appears to be home-grown, with slender roots in the Celtic tradition. He reminds us that out of sixteen million Celtic people still living in their native places, only two and a half million actually speak a Celtic language. Centuries of suppression have taken their toll. Still, it is not all bad news. While there are no precise figures to go on, it seems that the number of people learning a Celtic language - is on the rise, if we include non-Celtic people currently learning a Celtic language. A percentage of such people are likely to venture into the Druidic or Bardic sources - or what can be gleaned of them, and while this raises questions about authenticity, we ought not to conclude that such ventures will invariably fall on barren ground. Ellis notes the work of Colin Murray, who presented us with a Celtic Tree Oracle, based on his study of Ogham script etc. Murray found the basis for his Tree Oracle in the Beth Luis Nion or ancient Celtic 'Tree alphabet.' While Ellis accords respect to Murray's work, he questions Murray's claim that such Ogham material dates back to 600 B.C., arguing that 'there is simply no evidence that Ogham was used prior to the third or fourth centuries A.D.' What Ellis probably meant to say, is that no stone inscriptions have been found, using Ogham, dating back to 600 B.C. But that does not rule out the possibility that Ogham was used in other ways i.e. - on wood. Ellis identifies Ogham with the Beth Luis Nion alphabet, but it could equally well be used to represent the Boibel-Loth. It is worth remembering that the modern re-discovery or 'recovery' of Ogham, was the work of Charles Vallancy, a non-Celt. As such, it doesn't necessarily follow that a Druidic revival would be out of the question - in non Celtic hands. The Christianisation of Britain did not necessarily wipe the slate of Druidic culture. Irish monasteries, particularly, seemed to retain a strong element of Celtic-Druidic  culture, the great reputation for learning accorded to Irish monks appearing to be a legacy of Druidic tradition. Ellis notes that Pelagius, who had opposed Augustine over his determinist views, was advocating an earlier, Celtic interpretation of Christianity, which accorded a greater place to free will. It is easy to mock at things like a 'Druidic revival', but bearing in mind Blake's 'dark satanic mills' and the consequences of the Industrial Revolution, a religious philosophy which accords a sacred function to nature and her processess does seem to have redeeming virtues. That people still feel the need for such nourishment would explain the demand for books such as this.	2005-08-20
US	16056234	RHBBZSNL47VOB	0835605507	748877473	A Western Approach to Zen	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Some useful perspectives	Written by Christmas Humphreys, founding president of the Buddhist Society,London, and lifelong confidante and supporter of D.T. Suzuki - it is curious to weigh the gist of this book against the experience brought by two or three decades of experimentation with 'orthodox' Zen in the West. <br /> <br /> Despite his esteem for Zen - and Buddhism, generally, Humphreys felt certain reservations about adopting the outward form of such practices in the West, arguing that it was unreasonable and impractical to expect Westerners - living in the 20th c, to adopt forms of practice devised for Chinese Zen monks, living in 8th or 9th c. China. The concern here extended to prolonged periods of formal Za-zen, and also the more formalised aspects of training with the koan. Much of the thinking here derived from the fruitful bathos of Zen workshops at the Buddhist Society. Humphrey's position was not that Zen practice per se could be dispensed with, but that it ought to reflect Western needs and circumstances - bearing in mind the Buddha's own dictum: \\"work out thine own salvation with diligence.\\" Quite independently of the Buddhist Society, London, and working far away in N. America, at least one Japanese Roshi - Nyogen Senzaki, arrived at conclusions similar to those of Humphreys, suggesting that Western Zen students might sit on chairs, rather than adopt a sitting posture they were unfamiliar with - or even unsuited to, constititutionally.  <br /> <br /> In their bid to reclaim substance from style, or the living kernel from the outer shell of tradition, reformers are often at risk of throwing out the baby with the bathwater. To what extent that could be said of Humphreys, with any fairness, is a good question.  The Buddhist Society had always had strong ties with the Theravada - and, as such, unlikely to foster anything flippant - in the name of Buddhism. Going by the 'letters' sent Humphrey's way from practicers at the Buddhist Society, some of which appeared verbatim in 'ZenComes West,'a forerunner to the present text - it would be uncharitable to suggest that the letters therein reflected anything less than a genuine, focused quest for the truth.  <br /> <br /> I suspect that - over the past thirty years, even the most 'conservative' proponents and adherents of Zen have had to take a fresh look at some of their practices. Still, that is another matter from declaring such practices to be superfluous. It is one thing to concede that certain Caucasian types don't seem happy doing formal Za-zen for anything longer than brief spurts, and quite another to suggest that formal Za-zen never constituted part of the daily routine in T'ang Zen temples.  <br /> <br /> If anything, the tensions expressed in this book are still working themselves out. It is pretty evident that we are not going to see a kind of final triumph of the 'reformists' over the 'conservatives' or vice versa. It is more a question of levelling things out, letting them find their balance. In some areas, Western Buddhists are becoming more 'conservative' than they might once have imagined. In other respects, even the most enthusiastic members of the 'conservative' camp are finding that they have to be innovative. As such, this book is likely to touch on issues which are still relevant.     <br /> <br />	2005-08-18
US	16056234	R3Q7UBGHAX332B	0824819977	706218885	No Abode: The Record of Ippen (Rev) (Ryukoku-Ibs Studies in Buddhist Thought and Tradition)	Books	5	23	25	N	N	An outstanding and inspiring study	This is a fascinating account of Ippen (1239-1289) - a Japanese hijiri (holy man)who led an itinerant life, spreading the 'Pure Land' path among the people, reaching all levels of society. While well known in Japan, Ippen has - until of late, remained a relatively obscure figure in Western accounts of Buddhism. Dennis Hirota's book about Ippen will certainly alter that. The material here has been translated authoritively and yet sensitively, accompanied by some delightful illustrations. All in all, a very pleasing work.<br /><br /> It is worth noting that Matsuo Basho, the esteemed poet, saw figures such as Ippen and Saigyo as role models, their itinerant lifestyle, lived close to the elements, informing his own ideal of the 'furabo' - that of the homeless monk, with sleeves flapping in the wind. Thus, one might say that Ippen and Basho were fellow travellers on the pathless-path, their poetry informed by a kindred feeling.<br /><br /> Still, Ippen is primarily remembered for the way he propagated Pure Land Buddhism among the people, his poetry an unmistakable expression of his faith.<br /><br /> Say the Name (Amida)<br /><br /> And there is neither<br /><br /> Buddha nor self;<br /><br /> Namu Amida butsu,<br /><br /> Name Amida butsu.<br /><br /> - a paradoxical truth. Among other things, Ippen was noted for chanting the Nembetsu with a measured dance, rather like certain followers of Krsna. Ippen's Buddhism is by no means easy to categorize. On one view, Kamakura Buddhism comes over as a rather entrenched body of schools. However, there is nothing closed about Ippen's Budhism. While idiosyncratic, based on Pure Land ideas, advocating the nembetsu etc, Ippen's Buddhism had much in common with other Buddhist schools. The idea of 'yugyo' or 'travel as practice' tied in with certain Tendai/Shingon practices. Moreover, it is said that Ippen received 'inka' or approval from (Shinchi) Kakushin - a noted Zen master who had travelled to China.<br /><br /> The title of this book - No Abode,' can be taken in two ways. On one level, it alludes to Ippen's chosen mode of life as an itinerant monk, yet insofar as 'yugyo' or 'travel as practice'<br /><br />necessarily involves the spiritual dimension, 'no abode' might also be said to signify the 'pure land' as the realm of prajna. Thus, despite its surface simplicity, Ippen's understanding of Pure Land reached directly into the heart of Mahayana Buddhism. As Hirota-sensei notes in his well informed introduction, even the adopted name of 'Ippen' (one-time/once) carries a number of meanings. 'Ippen-nembutsu' meaning 'one time nembutsu/one utterance nembetsu' - could be said to signify the temporal event, Ippen's exchange with a passer-by, at which time Ippen would hand out a fuda or printed inscription of Amida's name. But as Hirota sensei points out:<br /><br />  \\"One utterance, does not, however, refer to a numerical<br /><br />  count; rather, it indicates the instant of the<br /><br />  immediate present that becomes, through utterance,<br /><br />  the point in which the person's salvation and Amida's<br /><br />  enlightenment are both fulfilled simultaneously. The<br /><br />  'one utterance nembetsu' never becomes two or three<br /><br />  utterances, but is always the present moment rooting<br /><br />  itself in Amida's enlightenment that transcends time<br /><br />  . . .<br /><br /> Reading this account, the genius of the artisan who carved the famous statue of Ippen - on display in Kyoto, becomes even more evident. He had endeavoured to illustrate the 'ippen-nembetsu' by carving a succession of 'Amidas' linked by a single thread, thus suggesting a continuous presence and standing 'now.'<br /><br /> This rather bare review does scant justice to Dennis Hirota's<br /><br />book. It is veritable treasure trove of material about a fascinating Buddhist figure. Besides Ippen's own material, his letters, poems etc., we also find 'Words Handed Down by Disciples' and 'Passages from OtherTexts' - illustrating Ippen's life and teaching. The main text is supplied with copius notes and a map etc., but these are placed unobtrusively outside the main text.<br /><br /> A word about Dennis Hirota. Although a Professor with the best of academic credentials, Hirota-sensei comes from a family background which has enjoyed long-standing links with Buddhism. Thus, he writes as one familiar with Buddhism - from the inside. This has enabled him to pick out the subtle nuances of Ippen's poetry. But - unlike some Japanese Professors, Hirota- sensei has a perfect command of English and is a gifted translator - as the poems in this book will show. This text is a classic. It is not just another, dry study, but conveys the living spirit of a whole tradition.en's life and teaching. The main text is supplied with copius notes and a map etc., but these are placed unobtrusively outside the main text.  <br /> <br /> A word about Dennis Hirota. Although a Professor with the best of academic credentials, Hirota-sensei comes from a family background which has enjoyed long-standing links with Buddhism. Thus, he writes as one familiar with Buddhism - from the inside. This has enabled him to pick out the subtle nuances of Ippen's poetry. But - unlike some Japanese Professors, Hirota- sensei has a perfect command of English and is a gifted translator - as the poems in this book will show. This text is a classic. It is not just another, dry study, but conveys the living spirit of a whole tradition.  <br />     <br />  <br /> <br />       <br />	2005-08-12
US	16056234	R2QKNAC4JDL39Y	0895819104	286230362	Wind in the Pines: Classic Writings of the Way of Tea as a Buddhist Path	Books	5	11	11	N	N	A refreshing exercise!	This is probably the best introduction to the 'Way of Tea' - in English sources. While it recognises all the virtues associated with 'cha no yu' in its more celebrated or well known forms (e.g. Ura-senke etc.), it brings fresh emphasis to the spiritual dimensions of 'tea' - reminding us that cha-no-yu was inspired by - and went with, a Buddhist feeling for the totality of life, compressed - if you like, into the magic of the momentary. This is the 'Way of tea' you can enjoy in your own space (less space). Hirota-sensei isn't taking issue with the best representatives of cha-no-yu in Japan. Hisamatsu Shinichi, a well known author on Japanese culture, endeavoured to say similar things to a Japanese audience. It is not the formal requirements, but the spiritual requirements, which should be satisfied.	2005-08-12
US	16056234	R2KNGK95SCOC2E	0791445291	452505663	Toward a Contemporary Understanding of Pure Land Buddhism: Creating a Shin Buddhist Theology in a Religiously Plural World (Suny Series in Buddhist Studies)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	A valuable study	Given the 'hardening of the orthodoxies' which seems to have set in elsewhere - studies like this seem like a breath of fresh air. We live in a 'pluralistic' world, with a plurality of religious traditions - and, despite the retreat into conservative narrowness, the good side of contemporary life is that more and more people seem to be recognising the need for inter-cultural dialogue and mutual understanding. Indeed, we might even say that the retreat into insular attitudes is a knee-jerk reaction to the undeniable fact that we are living in a pluralistic world, and must rise to the occasion.  <br /> <br /> The debates or dialogues in this study, chaired by Dennis Hirota, endevour to find a contemporary understanding of Shin Buddhism, capable of yielding shared meaning in dialogue with other religions in a pluralistic world. Shin Buddhism was bound to come to the fore here, from a Buddhist perspective, because it has a place for 'other-power' (tariki) - analogous to the role of God in Theistic religious systems. Shin Buddhists see the value of this analogous relationship, but question the extent to which it can be stretched. Amida is not a 'creator-God' - so the 'creationist' side of theology poses certain problems here.@On the other hand, certain aspects of Christian theology are open to re-interpretation. The 'death of God' theology places a minimum stress on the problematic aspects of creationism, and the emergent 'process theology' is much more akin to Asian thought. There is plenty of food for thought here, and anyone truly alive to the challenges faced by the spiritual community, world-wide, will gain vital insight by digesting the issues raised in this book.	2005-08-12
US	16056234	R2WZJ12CB9HQR	1570629129	578372910	Secrets of the Blue Cliff Record: Zen Comments by Hakuin and Tenkei	Books	5	19	20	N	N	A complementary study to the Blue Cliff Record	While it would be unfair to generalise - not everyone views Zen practice as something set in wood, according to lineage etc. (Yasutani Roshi, for instance, embraced a joint Rinzai-Soto fusion), centuries of tradition have left their mark. In some quarters at least, there is a tendency for Rinzai and Soto followers to define their schools by their differences (e.g. use of the koan, jakugo, koan-colections etc. as against 'shikantza' etc). <br /> <br /> As against such hybrid narrowness, it is fascinating to read these parallel commentaries on the Blue Cliff Record - one, by the eminent Soto master - Tenkei Denson (1648-1735) - the other by Hakuin Zenji (1685-1768), the renowned Rinzai reformer of the Tokugawa. These commentaries reveal a breadth of insight which transcends all conditioned boundaries.	2005-08-11
US	16056234	R2WD9YX6JZD9SH	0192838881	336875477	The Golden Ass (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	18	22	N	N	An under-rated classic.	I was glad at least one reviewer recognised that the 'Golden Ass' culminates in the story of Lucius' initiation into the divine 'Mysteries.' At this point the entire feeling tone changes, shifting into another key - along with the language. W.Y. Evans-Wentz, famous for his Tibetan Buddhist studies, regarded the 'Golden Ass' in its entirety as an expression of the Western Mystery tradition.  <br /> <br /> Tales of magical metamorphoses are the very stuff of antiquity, and while Apuleius 'Golden Ass' more or less occupied a category of light-reading - akin to the modern novel (novella), it is worth bearing in mind that 'magic' was real enough for Apuleius' and his contemporaries. At one point in his life, Apuleius had to appear in court to defend himself against charges of using magic to profit his circumstances. Most translators touch on this. Thessaly was renowned for its witches and witchcraft - and Lucius' fascination with it, in the story, probably typified how many young people actually felt. The counter-point and climax in the story, Lucius' initiation into the Isiac religion, regaining human form, transformed in outlook, also reflected a shift in the contemporary outlook. It is hard for us to understand today, but Apuleius - a Platonist, probably subscribed to the Isiac religion. In fact, the beatific vision conveyed in the story of Lucius' conversion - borders on a theosophical vision of totality, Isis - as a formless-form.   <br /> <br /> Reviewers inevitably pick up on the bawdy element, bestiality etc., and while this may not be the sort of book you would want to read to children, the 'raunchy' side of it has been exaggerated. As Robert Graves remarked, when Lucian takes on assinine form, his rich Pasiphae \\"is no mere bestialist, but shows her genuine love for the ass by planting pure, sincere, wholly unmeretricious kisses on his scented nose \\" - which puts a rather different perspective on things. Still, there can be little doubt that - for Lucius, acquiring the form of an ass signifies a kind of fallen state. It has sometimes been said that the 'religious' element - Lucius' initiation into the Mysteries of Isis, was inserted as a kind of dupe, something to appease moralists and put them off track. But the juxtaposition of profane and sacred imagery in the story is one of a piece.  <br />  <br /> St. Augustine read the 'Golden Ass' and was influenced by it. There are obvious allusions to the Metamorphoses in Boccacio, and Shakespeare. There are no fixed rules about reading this book, but it is worth looking at Robert Graves' remarks about the symbolism. Seen in its earlier religious context, the Ass was also a religious symbol. Marie-Louise von Franz wrote a whole 'Jungian' commentary on this Roman fable. Other people have taken a less elevated view, seeing the metamorphoses of Lucius as nothing more than a ripping read, full of bizarre imagery and fantastic scenes. But Roman fables have connected meaning, which will not become apparent if we take them literally. Unravelling the symbolic attributes of this tale is a kind of long term project you might take on, if you enjoy the book. I recommend reading several translations, because Apuleius' Latin is as tricky as it is interesting. Besides Robert Graves' translation, there is Jack Lindsay's version, the old Loeb edition by Gaselee (basically a reworked version of Adlington's text (1566) - and, so I hear, a new Loeb edition (haven't checked that out yet).	2005-08-04
US	16056234	R3EXH9IBLR4OSO	B0007DWGRA	941538460	The psychological attitude of early Buddhist philosophy and its systematic representation according to Abhidharma tradition	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A very detailed study	Lama Govinda's name is usually associated with Tibetan Buddhism, upon which he had written numerous books - after studying under various Tibetan Lamas, availing himself of primary sources in Tibetan. However, his career in Buddhism had begun with ordination in the Theravada tradition, hence his familiarity with the Abhidhamma (Sk. Abhidharma). <br /> <br /> This text is a good introduction to the Abhidharma, but not for beginners, who are likely to be overwhelmed by the material. By definition, the Abhidharma is technical and somewhat dry. The great virtue of Lama Anagarika Govinda's study is that he has presented the technicalities of the Abhidharma in a form likely to be more accessible to Western readers - with diagrams and charts that make the various aspects of consciousness clearer than they might otherwise appear, when simply presented as lists of terms, categories etc. - in Pali or Sanskrit, in the manner traditionally adopted. He has endeavoured to show, so far as possible - on paper, the organic connection between the basic elements of the Abhidharma.  <br /> <br /> As the title of this book makes clear, Lama Govinda has endeavoured to explore the 'psychological attitude' of early Buddhist philosophy - not simply list terms, categories etc. At the end of the day, the Abhidharma makes little or no sense, unless related to meditation practices. Still, in some respects, there are reasons for thinking that the Abhidharma became something of an abstraction. Clearly, a number of early suttas (sutras) contain definitions of 'citta' that cannot be accounted for by appealing to the Abhidharma. To account for such things, we must turn to the Madhyamika, Vijnanavada etc. - but, that is another matter.	2005-08-04
US	16056234	R2S6D2NNLPUQNU	0140442472	562100275	A Celtic Miscellany: Translations from the Celtic Literature (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	28	30	N	N	A wonderful selection, beautifully translated!	Despite the recent 'boom' in Celtic literature, there are not that many anthologies around, which present the whole palette, as it were, of the Celtic mind, feeling and imagination. In this respect, Kenneth Jackson's anthology remains one of the best. When he died in 1991, his obituary notice in The Times declared him 'a master of all four of the major Celtic languages' - an accolade not many could claim. In fact, the material here has been drawn from six Celtic sources - Welsh, Irish, Scottish Gaelic, Cornish and Manx (the variety of Celtic spoken in the Isle of Mann).          Hence, this anthology enables you to savour the taste of Celtic literature, from an unusual number of sources. While all translations have their limitations, Jackson had an uncanny way of reproducing the alliteration and feel of Celtic. In this book, we find Hero tales, epics, reflections on nature, love, delightful epigrams, Celtic magic poems, descriptive sketches,humour & satire, Bardic Poetry, Elegies, religious reflections etc. - a rich collage indeed.     The main text comprises 305 pages, but reading it is more akin to perusing a Celtic library, for that is effectively what Jackson had to do, to procure this rich diversity of sources. The text includes a map of Ireland and Wales, in case you want to locate places mentioned in the text. Extensive notes have been appended to the text - with a pronouncing index. Not everyone will want to get their tongue round that, but the beauty of this text is that you can dip into the material without worrying unduly about such matters, savouring the imagery for its own sake.      It is hard task to select passages for review, for the whole book deserves to be savoured. I may prejudice the reader's mind with my choices. Epics are too long to quote, but you'll hear of Cu Chulainn and all the rest. At random, how about this from the section titled 'Nature':        (34) To the Sun         Greeting to you, sun of the seasons, as you travel       the skies on high, with your strong steps on the       wing of the heights; you are the happy mother        of the stars.          You sink down in the perilous ocean without harm       and without hurt, you rise up on the quiet wave       like a young queen in flower.                 Scottish Gaelic; traditional folk prayer.     - or how about these beautiful lines, from the end of  'The Wish of Manchan of Liath' (Religion. 223.)        \\" This the housekeeping I would undertake, I would      choose it without concealing; fragrant fresh leeks,      hens, speckled salmon, bees. \\"       How about this sweet epigram (93) 'Her Light Step'         \\"There's my darling merry star, flower of the      parish of Llangeinwen; beneath her foot the      grass no more bends than does a rock beneath      a bird's foot.\\"                           Welsh. Traditional verse.           Another charming epigram (84, The Snowfall).        White flour, earth flesh, a cold fleece on     the mountain, small snow of the chill black day;     snow like platter, bitter cold plumage,     a softness sent to entrammel me. \\"                                  - Welsh englynion.      Here's a snippet of Irish 'Zen.'                 A Vain Pilgrimage          \\" Coming to Rome, much labour and little profit!        The King whom you seek here, unless you bring        Him with you - you will not find him. \\"               Irish;author unknown; 9th c.      The strange mixture of pity, humility and assertiveness in the following, is peculiarly Celtic.                  244. A Charm with Yarrow.       \\" I will pick the smooth yarrow that my figure may be more elegant, that my lips may be warmer, that my voice may be more cheerful;may my voice be like a sunbeam, may my lips be like the juice of the strawberries.      May I be an island in the sea, may I be a hill on the land, may I be a star when the moon wanes, may I be a staff to the weak one: I shall wound every man, no man shall wound me. \\"     Scottish Gaelic; traditional folk charm.     Yarrow, a delicate wild  flower, long used in Celtic herbal lore and suchlike, grows all over Britain. Like the Japanese Yamato nadeshiko, Yarrow symbolises and invokes ideal qualities of femininity. Yet it is a resilient and tough little plant. Reading this verse, I have always imagined a young woman, tender enough to go through life without betraying the better qualities of womanhood, yet apprehensive that she may be abused. So, along with her wish to be - and remain charming, she also nurtures her sense of cosmic attunement and the strength of the feminine in nature, the power of yielding, happy to be a star when the moon wanes, and a staff to the weak. The closing line - 'I shall wound every man, no man shall wound me' - looks callous, even violent, but really, it conveys nothing more than the wish to remain lucky in love, that the 'charm' with the yarrow should work, not leaving the young woman hurt. It is quite likely that the original form of the verse comprised the first four lines - and the closing line. The additional components soften it, making it less predatory.     Just for its own sake, I've included:                    The Harp of Cnoc I Chosgair     \\"Harp of Cnoc I Chosggair, you who bring sleep to eyes long sleepless;sweet, subtle, plangent, glad, cooling, grave. \\"    \\" Excellent instrument with the smooth gentle curve, trilling under red fingers, musician that has charmed us, red, lion-like, of full melody. \\"    \\" You who lure the bird from the flock, you who refresh the mind, brown spotted one of sweet words, ardent, wondrous, passionate. \\"     \\" You who heal every wounded warrior, joy and allurement to women, familiar guide over the dark blue water, mystic, sweet sounding music. \\"     \\"You who silence every instrument of music, yourself a pleasing plaintive every instrument of music, dweller among the Race of Conn, instrument yellow-brown and firm. \\"     \\" The one darling of sages,restless, smooth, of sweet tune, crimson star above the fairy hills, breast jewel of High Kings.\\"     \\"Sweet tender flowers, brown harp of Diarmaid, shape not unloved by host, voice of the cuckoos in May! \\"     \\"I have not heard of music such as your frame makes since the time of the fairy people, fair brown many coloured bough, gentle, powerful, glorious.\\"      \\" Sound of the calm wave on the beach, pure shadowing tree of true music, carousals are drunk in your company, voice of the swan over shining streams. \\"     \\"Cryof the fairy women from the Fairy Hill of Ler, no melody can match you, every house is sweet stringed through your guidance, you the pinnacle of harp music. . .\\"       Irish. Gofraidh Fionn O Dalaigh; c. 1385       At the risk of butchering things, I've thrown in these random extracts from verse found under 'religion.'       232. The Tree of Life     \\"Lovely is the flock of birds which keeps it, on every bright and goodly bird a hundred feathers; and without sin, with pure brilliance, they sing a hundred tunes for every feather. \\"     243. A Prayer to the Virgin     \\"The Virgin of ringlets most excellent, Jesus more surpassing white than snow, melodious Seraphs singing Their praise, and the King of the Universe saying it was fitting. \\"     \\"The Virgin most excellent of face, Jesus more surpassing white than snow, She like the moon rising over the hills, He like the sun on the peaks of the mountains. \\"       All in all, there is something very satisfying about this book. Something about its 'feeling tone' lingers and sticks to you, like incense. I've dipped into it for twenty years, on and off, and always recall the story of the Christian hermit on a tiny island, shedding tears of joy for catching a fish. Its hard to feel like that in a supermarket.	2005-08-01
US	16056234	RBRR5O93SRPWY	0824814827	242355746	Soto Zen in Medieval Japan (Studies in East Asian Buddhism)	Books	5	29	29	N	N	A detailed background study.	While a trifle dry in places, this book - 'Soto Zen in Medieval Japan' - sponsored by the Kuroda Institute, will nevertheless appeal to the general reader who wishes to know more about the historical background to a Buddhist tradition which is striking roots in the West. As Bodiford puts it: <br /> <br />   The Soto school is the largest Buddhist organisation <br />   in modern Japan. It ranks with the various Pure Land <br />   schools as one of the most successful of the new <br />   Buddhist denominations that emerged during the Kamakura <br />   and Muromachi periods (roughly thirteenth-sixteenth <br />   centuries).During this medieval period Soto monks <br />   developed new forms of monastic organisation, new  <br />   methods of Zen instruction, and new applications for <br />   Zen rituals within lay-life - many of which lie outside <br />   our received image of Zen. . .Yet in spite of its <br />   significance for enrichening our understanding of <br />   Japanese religion, medieval Soto Zen has remained <br />   largely unknown, even among specialists. Most Western <br />   descriptions of Japanese Zen either ignore Soto <br />   completely or equate Soto exclusively with the  <br />   teachings of Dogen (the school's nominal founder), <br />   even though modern Soto practices continue many <br />   medieval period elements unknown to Dogen or even <br />   foreign to his teachings. . .this book attempts to <br />   illuminate how Soto Zen (and rural Zen in general) <br />   functioned as a religion within the context of <br />   medieval Japanese society.  <br /> <br />  <br /> While we might question Bodiford's claim that Soto Zen has been 'ignored' in Western writings (when the first ed. of Bodiford's text appeared in 1993, a limited but reasonably well informed range of Western Soto studies were available, with others underway), he is certainly right in declaring that the extant studies placed almost exclusive emphasis upon Dogen, <br />neglecting other voices in the tradition. It is in this area that Bodiford's study repays careful reading. As such, it will prove challenging for readers espousing easy definitions of (neo) Soto 'orthodoxy.'  To quote Bodiford again:  <br /> <br />    In the eyes of many devout Soto adherents the story <br />    of early Soto communities begins with Dogen and ends <br />    with Dogen. It is a simple story of how Dogen's    <br />    vision of pure Buddhism was establshed in rural Japan <br />    and then lost. Later the story starts over again  <br />    with Keizan Jokin, who is credited with establishing  <br />    a new institutional form for Soto more compatible <br />    with the simple religious sentiments of rural <br />    Japanese...Summarised in crude terms, Dogen <br />    provided high religious ideals while Keizan ensured  <br />    their survival by implementing practical means of <br />    propagation - means which according to some  <br />    commentators often were at odds with Dogen's  <br />    ideals.  <br /> <br /> While Bodiford doesn't question the details, he does question the interpretation placed upon them, arguing that it reflects the outlook of Soto reformers from the 18th c. onwards, pushing a rather puritanical view of Early Soto Zen. Bodiford's study is too detailed to review at length here, but a list of chapter headings will give an idea of the main topics. For what it is worth, I have thrown in a few tentative remarks about certain key issues. <br />   <br />I. Introduction.  <br /> <br /> Part One. Early Soto Communities. <br /> <br />2. Dogen:The Founder of Eiheiji.  <br /> <br />3.  Giin. The Beginnings of Higo Soto. <br /> <br />4.  Senne and Kyogo: Commentators on Dogen's Shobo genzo. <br /> <br />5.  Gikai: The Founder of the Daijoji <br /> <br />6.   Jakuen and Giun: Local Growth and Ties to Eiheiji.  <br /> <br />7.   Early Schisms: The Question of the Sandai Soron. <br /> <br />8.   Keizan: The Founder of Yokoji. <br /> <br />  Part Two: Regional Expansion.  <br /> <br />9.  Sojiji: The New Institutional Center. <br /> <br />10. The Popularisation of Soto. <br /> <br />11. Formation of the Soto Order. <br /> <br /> Part Three: Soto Zen Practice. <br /> <br /> 12. Koan Zen. <br /> <br /> 13. Precepts and Ordinations <br /> <br /> 14. Zen Funerals. <br /> <br /> 15. Conclusion.  <br /> <br /> (Notes, Bibliography, Glossary, Index).  <br /> <br />  <br /> This study covers a lot of ground, so compromises were inevitable. However, we might have expected more than the skimpy account of Dogen's life at the Koshoji, effectively the first Zen monastery in Japan with a proper Sodo or monks hall. Leaving the Kenninji (still a Tendai temple in Dogen's lifetime) and setting up at the Koshiji in Fukakusa, was a defining moment in Dogen's career and also a milestone in the history of Japanese Zen Buddhism. By the same token, we might have expected to hear a little more about the reasons for Dogen's rather abrupt departure from the Koshiji - and the move to Echizen (Fukui). Bodiford's discussion of this is squeezed into a few pages in the opening chapter titled 'Dogen: The Founder of Eiheiji.' Still, Bodiford does explore some of the factors cited (not least by Dogen himself) which possibly account for the move. Dogen claimed that he had been harrassed by Tendai monks from Mt. Hiei. But on the strength of contemporary records set down at Koshiji, even those written in the days shortly before the move to Echizen, the routine at Koshoji does not appear to have been marked by undue disturbance. That said, Tendai-shu documents would seem to substantiate Dogen's claims - but, in a cause-effect relationship, following Dogen's submission of a document or petition to the Emperor - the 'Gokoku shobogi' (Principles of True Buddhism for Protecting the State) which was, in effect, a plea for independence -and, as such, a rejection of the Tendai establishment. The move from Kenninji to Fukakusa had already marked a break with the Tendai-shu and it seems that Dogen's wish to consolidate his position - at the Koshoji, met with resistence. It is of note that - at this time, Enni Benen was setting up at the Tofukuji in Kyoto, roughly half way between the Kenninji and Koshoji. While Rinzai Zen was being taught at the Tofukuji, Enni Benen accommodated Tendai practices and thus remained on the good side of the Tendai prelates. Dogen wasn't prepared to accommodate Tendai practices - and, it seems, he had to pay the price for it.@The wish for independence does not necessarily signify or breed rivalry, but it all depends on how that wish is cast. In Eastern Japan, well away from Kyoto, the Hojo regents in Kamakura seemed rather keen to embrace Zen as an independent Buddhist school, free from the religious politics of Mt. Hiei. In retrospect, we might look back upon Kamakura Japan as a period of cultural refinement and deepening spiritual aspirations. But it was also murky, laden with intrigue and power struggles. In fact, not unlike medieval Europe, ridden with pestilence and wars, charged with apocalyptic visions. Seen in this light perhaps, Dogen's decision to move to Echizen seems more comprehensible.  <br /> <br /> Though plentiful references to him abound, it is surprising to find that Ejo - author of Shobogenzo Zuimonki, and responsible for copying and the initial editing of key elements of Dogen's own Shobogenzo, did not merit a chapter in this book - or least, a shared one. As a contemporary of Dogen, Ejo was in a priviliged position to share his master's thoughts and teaching. Of course, Ejo wrote and recorded what he deemed appropriate. Suffice it to say that the Dogen Ejo speaks of - is open-minded. He recognised the 'five houses of Zen,' and accorded full respect to lay-practicers - including women. The later, post Koshoji Dogen, stressed the Soto transmission, regarded monks as superior to laymen, men as superior to women. How we reconcile these different faces of Dogen - is a big question. It may well be that the narrower definitions of Dogen's thought are later interpolations. In other respects, Dogen's own outlook may have changed.   <br /> <br /> Among other topics, this study looks at the Nihon Daruma-shu, led by Dainichi nonin. Virtually dismissed in contemporary accounts as a minor school of little significance, Bodiford shows the close connections between Dogen and monks of this school, a number of whom comprised his earliest disciples. As Bodiford notes, Nichiren regarded the Daruma-shu as a major force in Kamakura Buddhism. However, like the Tendai prelates and secular authorities, Dogen took a dim view of  the Daruma-shu per se - which allegedly taught antinomian doctrines.  <br /> <br /> The material dealing with Giin (1217-1300) - a former Daruma-shu monk should be of interest, for we tend to forget that the Soto-shu spread to Southern Japan, the so called Higo-Soto (Higo=Kyushu). Fittingly, we hear about Gikai, who completed the construction of Eihei-ji - still rudimentary in Dogen's lifetime, thus winning the title 'Eihei chuko' or the 'reviver' of Eiheiji. Rather touchingly, Gikai retired from Eiheiji to build a hermitage, where he looked after his ailing mother. He later moved to Kaga and the Daijoji temple, which flourished in his care. Keizan joined the community at Daijoji and soon became supervisor of the monk's hall. Strangely to say, when Gikai's health began to fail, he bequeathed to Keizan his Daruma-shu documents, as part of his Soto legacy. This raises the question of whether the teachings of the Daruma-shu were as decadent as some sources suggest. Daruma-shu monks had consulted the Surangama-sutra to consolidate their training |at all events, an unlikely source from which to cull antinomian doctrines. As Dogen saw it, the Daruma-shu monks who had taken up his teaching had done so on the understanding that they were relinquishing their former views and practices. Perhaps, at bottom, the charge of antinomianism brought against the Daruma-shu monks signified nothing more than the fact that they regarded themselves as independent of the Kyoto Buddhist establishment - a complex of Tendai-cum-Shingon teachings, for which 'Zen' was but one practice out of many. Dogen's appeal to the authorities - for an independent Zen-shu, while at the Koshoji, had elicited a similar response. He was accused of pursuing a separatist ideal or 'pratyeka' methods that neglected the well-being of others. Whether fair judgement or not, it reflected how the Buddhist 'establishment' of the day viewed its own teachings and processes. Evidently, Gikai had not jettisoned everything inherited from the Daruma-shu. To a certain extent, all religious traditions end up borrowing and synthesising different elements. While customarily referred to as 'syncretism' and usually taken in the pejorative, it is clear from the rest of the sources Bodiford has mustered, that other Soto adherents adapted or embraced elements of teaching - Shingon or Tendai esoteric methods etc. - not strictly in line with Dogen's ideas, yet without any over-riding sense that they were militating against his essential teaching.  <br /> <br /> Given the marked increase in Western interest for Dogen's magnum opus - the Shobogenzo, the chapter dealing with Senne and Kyogo, and other commentators on the Shobogenzo, will prove stimulating. As personal disciples of Dogen - like Ejo, the commentaries of Senne and Kyogo had been informed by what they perceived of Dogen's teaching at first hand. Rediscovered in the Tokugawa, the writings of Senne and Kyogo are therefore of unique value, for they ostensibly yielded a record of Dogen's thought, untouched by the later assumptions of the tradition.  <br />Whether free from all tarnish, is another matter. While useful for their assessment of Dogen's teaching, their writings exhibit sectarian tendencies - perhaps a reference to the ill, -famed Daruma-shu. <br /> <br /> It is worth noting that despite its'hallowed' status these days, parts of the Shobogenzo have been viewed with suspicion, if not the whole text! It has been exploited - through selective reading, to justify sweeping institutional changes. Manzan Dohoku (1636-1714) attempted this, appealing to the Tokugawa Shogunate to alter the Soto school's system of temple lineages (garanbo). Opposing this, other Soto scholars appealed, citing other portions of the Shobogenzo. Manzan won the day, but in order to avoid any further confusion over the status or intent of Dogen's teaching, the Soto hierarchy requested the government to ban both the copying and printing of any version of the Shobogenzo, which the Shogunate did in 1722.  <br /> <br /> Again, Tenkei Denson (1648-1735), a Soto Buddhist scholar, whose writings have recently attracted fresh interest in the West, rejected six chapters of the Shobogenzo. He also suggested numerous revisions, including various sectarian comments which crept into the Shobogenzo, criticising eminent Chinese masters. In this, his judgement seemed akin to that of Majuaku Dochu (1653-1744), a Rinzai monk who had shared similar doubts. As Bodiford says - 'Tenkei and Mujaku alike believed in basic unity underlying all Zen, Soto and Rinzai, Chinese and Japanese. Neither could accept Dogen's criticism of famous Chinese masters.' The upside of this, is that it shows how Buddhists can rise above sectarian identities and form an objective opinion. The residual question here, of course, is whether the remarks concerned originated with Dogen? Unless definitely in his hand, we must view that question with caution.  <br /> <br /> I can't devote much more space to this review. Still, on the question of sectarian interest, it is startling to realize that - at one time, the Soto tradition had virtually split in two, with two 'head temples' - one Hon-zan (head temple) at Eihei-ji, the other at Sojiji. At some point, the ridiculousness of the situation seems to have caught up with everyone, witha recognition that the Soto tradition had one and the same founder. On a positive end-note, it is worth pointing out that Bodiford more or less dismisses the so called 'sandai soron' or schism in the third generation, of which so much has been said and written. Reassuring too, was the chapter devoted to the koan and koan -literature in Soto Zen. Contrary to what we often hear today, Soto monks once used 'jakugo' in their training. They had their own koan-collections or 'monsan' and at their best, the so-called Soto kirikami (kirigami) once functioned in a similar vein, even if they later degenerated into mere formalism. As Bodiford notes - in the past, it was not uncommon for Rinzai and Soto monks to study koan at each other's temples. This was still the custom in Hakuin Zenji's lifetime, and it needs to be said that the more restrictive practices, prohibiting such inter-action, originated with the government, rather than the temples.  <br /> <br /> I would like to say more about this book, but suffice it to say that Bodiford's study is worth reading.	2005-07-31
US	16056234	R3BDK8DULH5GQL	0823922405	445374720	The Illustrated Encyclopedia of Zen Buddhism	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Useful, but rather restricted.	If the title is taken literally, this Encyclopaedia of Zen Buddhism fulfils its function well - giving the general reader handy notes and references to Zen Buddhism, its practices, customs and institutions -as found in Japan. However, given the weighty 'Chinese' legacy behind Japanese Zen Buddhism, one might have expected more references to the Chinese background,if only transcriptions of the Chinese way of pronouncing key names, terms and idioms found in the Japanese sources. More than a few eminent Japanese Zen monks travelled to China to practice in the Ch'an temples there, and a bit more of the Chinese background, generally, would have made this book considerably more useful. Similar problems arise when it comes to the use of Sino-Japanese idioms derived from Sanskrit.  <br />Without concessions in this direction, readers will probably have to look elsewhere for the links, which compromises the usefulness of this book as an encyclopaedia. Still, it will prove helpful for the general reader.  <br />	2005-07-29
US	16056234	R21C00TS4X94WD	0394743873	826907567	Taoist I Ching	Books	4	23	25	N	N	Intersting, but problematic on its own.	There seems to be a certain amount of confusion over the purpose of this version of the Yi-Ching. The publisher's blurb leaves it equaly uncertain. Liu I-ming's text-commentary which appeared in 1796, effectively used the symbols of the Yi-Ching to indicate inner processes based on Taoist yoga. To put it another way, Liu I-ming's commentary, alludes to microcosmic energy cycles which mirror the macrocosmic cycles reflected in the Yi-Ching. Without the 'nei-kung' or inner teaching which animates the process, as it were, it is hard to see how anyone could make sense of Liu I-ming's comments. In Chinese Taoist circles, the need for such supplementary teachings would have been taken for granted.  <br /> <br /> Up to a point, Cleary's translation of 'The Secret of the Golden Flower' satisfies such a requirement. He clearly disliked Wilhelm's version - not only stylistically, but because its material was a strange composite and incomplete. But - far better than either of these, is Lu K'uan Yu's (Charles Luk) translation of Chao Pi Chen's 'Secrets of Cultivating Essential Nature and Eternal Life.' (Weiser). Chao Pi Chen (b. 1860) was a practising Taoist, who not only had access to authentic Taoist materials, but Taoist masters in remote mountain locations, who had mastered the teaching. Lu K'uan Yu (b. 1898) also practised the Taoist yoga. His command of English - combined with his experience of the Yoga, enabled him to coin understandable English equivalents, helping to make the processes involved clear. It must be said that Taoists such as Liu-I-Ming or Chao Pi Chen did not intend to make their teachings too explicit. But knowing the threat to teachings such as Taoism and Buddhism - owing to the social climate in China, Lu K'uan Yu endeavored to make them available to Western people. Hence, these translations are also invaluable to ex-patriate Chinese, who more or less face the same difficulties as Westerners, attempting to read them - in Chinese. Minus experience of the states hinted at in such texts, no translator - however gifted, can account for their meaning - and is forced to guess. <br /> <br />  <br /> <br />	2005-07-28
US	16056234	R367YIHF9CVUHB	082481312X	323449232	Heidegger and Asian Thought	Books	3	30	47	N	N	Buddha becomes a Heideggerian	Like its companion volume 'Neitzsche & Asian Thought,' this book is based on wishful thinking and all sorts of false premises. Apart from superficial resemblances, there is not a great deal in Heidegger which resonates with Buddhist ideas or Asian thought. Heidegger gave priority to man's temporal being - 'being thrown in the world' - and the Buddha taught the way out of conditioned existence in time and space. For the Buddha, phenomenal existence per se - is illusory. For Heidegger, phenomenal existence is the only basis from which to proceed on the path of philosophy. It may be that in trying to rescue 'phenomena' from a world of mere appearance, he was, in a sense, endeavouring to see the phenomenal world as something emerging from within that which is not phenomenal, but in truth, there is more in common between the Buddha, Plato and the Neo-Platonists (especially Plotinus), than there could ever be between Heidegger - and the Buddha/Asian thought.  <br /> <br /> Read Nagarjuna and what he says about sunyata/pratitya samutpada, and then look at Heidegger. Nagarjuna questions the validity of metaphysical statements - because he is convinced that the 'real' is beyond the reach of any conditioned terms. He wished to free us from appearances. Heidegger rejected metaphysical statements and references to that which is supra-phenomenal, because he regarded the pre-occupation with supra-phenomenal existence as absurd. You wont find Sunyata/Dharmata in Heidegger. Unlike Heideggger, neither Lao Tzu nor the Buddha would have called 'language the house of being.' What is more, they didn't even like the term 'being' - which only exists because of its opposite - 'non-being.'	2005-07-26
US	16056234	R1ZJ2P4QPQF9FQ	0700712194	876049252	Innovative Buddhist Women: Swimming Against the Stream (Routledge Critical Studies in Buddhism)	Books	5	11	12	N	N	And this is the 21st century!	In one sense, it is a pity this book had to be written at all. The subtitle evinces the sense of frustration involved with being a woman, trying to win respect and recognition in the Buddhist world - which has, with a few notable exceptions, been characterised as a world in which the dominant voices are male. In fact, some Buddhist schools don't recognise bhikkuni (bhiksuni) ordinations - they are defined as quasi-ordinands. <br /> <br /> <br /> Not everyone adopts this parochial attitude. Some eminent Chinese Buddhists have been supportive and generous toward upasikas and bhiksunis. Some adepts recorded in the Ch'an classics were women. There are moving Japanese stories of female Pure Land adherents who surely had Buddha-hearts. Even the highly conservative Theravada tradition has, in recent years, allowed women to occupy high profile teaching posts (Achan Naeb, is a case which comes to mind). Female adepts in certain Tibetan schools have also risen to prominence - but, in many respects, it has been - and still is - a case of 'swimming against the stream.'  <br /> <br /> How deeply ingrained this condescending attitude can be, became clear many years ago when a Canadian Buddhist friend in her early thirties, joined a Buddhist group in Canada. Still very 'Japanese' - ethnically speaking, the senior members of this group actually allocated her a place in the 'kids group' because (a) not only was she a woman - but (b) a 'foreign' woman at that. This was probably an extreme case, but it was instructive.  <br /> <br /> Whatever one thinks about such attitudes, they are going to be challenged - especially in the West. I know that, in her endeavour to address this situation, and supplementary to her purpose, Lekshe Tsomo has carefully examined all the variants of the Vinaya rules - bearing on the ordination of women, as found in the major Buddhist traditions. But these were all put together in another day and age, by people (men) living in highly conservative societies, some more generous than others. The big question here, of course, is the extent to which these rules and regulations can be said to owe their direct influence or inspiration to - the historical Buddha? The chances are that in their present formulation, they constitute a reworking of material in the hands of various Buddhist elders.  <br /> <br /> Various things stated outside the Vinaya, give the impression that initially, the Buddha was reluctant to admit women to the Sangha. But, as various sutras attest, such initial scepticism was replaced with a more generous outlook. In fact, several sutras (e.g. the Vimalakirti, Srimala, Saddharma Pundarika etc.)go out of their way to demolish the 'sexist' preconceptions held by some of the Buddha's contemporaries. Be that as it may,  <br />'sexist' preconceptions and prejudice have survived in certain areas of Buddhism - and, without hysteria, this book endeavours to address the imbalance. One might be tempted to look upon the issue as an 'Asian' phenomenon, but the Western Buddhist community has spawned 'sexist' views of its own. Moreover, we might recall that the Roman Catholic Church and Anglican Church have also resisted the ordination of women priests, although the latter has gone some way to recognise the need for it. <br />We were all born from our mothers, who gave us tender, loving care, so let's not forget who sowed the earliest seeds of compassion in our hearts. Take Lekshe Tsomo and this book seriously - with a hefty dose of Metta!	2005-07-18
US	16056234	R3C8LEP01P3CPN	0521476763	707814242	The Cambridge Companion to Plotinus (Cambridge Companions to Philosophy)	Books	4	25	25	N	N	Useful, but not for a first look at Plotinus.	I can't help agreeing with the previous reviewer. There is a uneven quality to the material in this book. It isn't that helpful - unless you are already familiar with Plotinus, whereas the aim of this series had been to provide a handy introduction. I also agree that - brief though it may be, John Dillon's introduction to the Penguin Mckenna trans. succeeds in saying far more to make Plotinus comprehensible.<br /><br /> For example, Dominic J. O'Meara's material in Chapter 3 - 'The Hierarchical Ordering of Reality in Plotinus' - begins with a quote from Darwin \\" Never use the words higher and lower\\" - noting that Plotinus never referred to his system of philosophy as a 'hierarchy' at all, pointing out that this notion was added by later commentators. He then seeks to explicate the problem, by inviting readers to 'pick out terminology which Plotinus himself uses explicitly in order to formulate a structuring of things to which we would tend to refer as \\"hierarchical. . .\\" - hopefully, as a starting point to begin reformulating the position in Plotinus' own terms. But why not circumvent the problem by ignoring later commentaries, assumptions, sticking with Plotinus' terms from the outset?<br /><br /> Blumenthal's material (Chapter 4) - On Soul and Intellect' begins with rather patronising advice: \\"Readers of the Companion who have arrived at this chapter should be well aware that Platonus was a Platonist \\" - much as if we might have taken Plotinus for a Druid or Hindu. No doubt, Blumenthal was thinking of the serious consequences of projecting post 18th c. notions of 'Intellect' etc. - into Plotinus. This distinction could have been made, without making the book look like a 'Plotinus for Dummies' publication. You would have to be pretty dense - failing to recognise that Plotinus was a Platonist, after reading the Introduction and reaching page 82 of the book.<br /><br /> Again, I had qualms about Sara Rappe's contribution in Chapter 10 - 'Self-knowledge and Subjectivity in the Enneads,' largely because it begins by suggesting that Plotinus anticipated Descartes' view of subjectivity. To be fair, Rappe begins by noting convergences, but then moves on to qualify the divergences involved. All the same, I think the gap between Plotinus and Descartes is far too wide to suggest that the former anticipated the latter. All it says, really, is that philosophers of the European Enlightenment were heirs to a philosophical tradition which had its beginnings in ancient Greece. But Descartes was thinking in 'Latin' derivatives of Greek philosophical terms, and in that sense, his notion of 'subjectivity' was undoubtedly different. Why not stick with Plotinus? - if the aim was to introduce his philosophy? One of my chief reasons for reading Plotinus - and enjoying it, is that he doesn't sound like Descartes.<br /><br /> John Dillon's piece (Chapt. 13) was worth reading  - 'An Ethic for the Late Antique Sage,' engaging precisely because Dillon stayed with the primary sources. Again, the piece by Georges Leroux (Chapter 12) was interesting, because he discussed what is ostensibly a very modern topic (human freedom),without projecting 18th c philosophical assumptions into the matter.<br />I dare say that all the papers in this book have relevance, but to my mind, there could have been better focus on Plotinus. I agree with the previous reviewer, who averred that it is often easier to read Plotinus - directly, than it is to digest some of these essays.	2005-07-18
US	16056234	R35Q9DINIIEXUS	0674304985	207059181	Five Mountains: The Rinzai Zen Monastic Institution in Medieval Japan (Harvard East Asian Monographs)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	An excellent study!	Not everyone wants to explore the history of Rinzai Zen as an Institution - but, if you do, Martin Collcutt's study is a veritable treasure trove. Potted within its pages (382, excluding the index and bibliography), you will find fascinating references to just about everything of significance concerning the formation of the 'Gozan' or 'Five Mountain System' - its precedents in Sung China, its patrons and supporters in Japan, the temple builders, key figures, secular and religious, all the regulations, and all the myriad processes involved in the maintenance of these inter-linked temple complexes.  <br /> <br />  Even at their best, studies like this can be tedious, in places, but this well informed account is never dry. It explores macrocosmic factors, and surveys microcosmic details. Collcutt conveys an almost organic picture of the entire complex of processes - social, technical,human and spiritual - which brought the 'Gozan' system into being and made it a living entity. While all of this was ultimately directed to one end - the spiritual life nurtured in the Sodo or monks hall, Collcutt's study makes us keenly aware of the managerial and administrative skills required to run such large complexes. Rather like their equivalent in medieval or late medieval Europe, these monastic institutions virtually became thriving 'businesses'- running large landed estates, even employing hired labour. Beating the Medici family to the game by several centuries, the Chinese Buddhists were the first people to print paper money - and lend it at interest. As with the European monastic institutions, corruption and worldliness sometimes took over. Similar traits sometimes characterised life in the Japanese temples. Collcutt's study can be statistical in places, but this is always tempered by the human interest - the notable figures and events which have shaped life in these temples. It details the virtues, vices and the vicissitudes, which have left their mark upon the Gozan system.	2005-07-14
US	16056234	R34SF12K05YUTB	1400051290	811190455	The Sense of Being Stared At: And Other Unexplained Powers of the Human Mind	Books	5	60	62	N	N	Engaging stuff!	As ever with topics of this sort, opinions tend to be polarised. Sheldrake's supporters tend to be 'up-beat' about his ideas, the sceptics - well, they'll just have to remain sceptical. If you haven't read this book - it is certainly worth looking at. For his own part, Sheldrake claims nothing - that is not already there, waiting to be acknowledged.He would be the happiest of all, if you discovered the basic truth of what he is saying, in your own experience, without pre-meditation.      It strikes me that many people are predisposed to recognise or experience - what Sheldrake is getting at. In common parlance, it used to be called 'sixth sense' - with a kind of tacit understanding that it is more marked, in some people. The title of this book (The Sense of Being Stared At) - was selected because it is a sensation which almost all of us have felt, at some time. For any perceptive person, it is probably a daily occurrence (not to be confounded with paranoia, owing to a sense of shyness). Needless to say, the obvious way to 'test' the theory - is to tackle it in the active, rather than passive sense. Try staring at someone's back on the tube or bus, and see how long it takes before they turn their heads, in the direction of the gaze. Eight times out of ten, it 'works' within 90 seconds. The strange thing, is that it also works, if you focus on a person's image reflected in a train/bus window, the curious thing being that they look in the direction of the gaze, as mediated by the reflection. It is as if they pick up a node of energy.      Of course, the whole point here, is that if minds operates with 'fields' - that there is kind of 'extended mind,' it has all sorts of dimensions, ramifications and implications. It was nice to hear one reviewer saying that Sheldrake's book had changed him, and that he'd decided to be kinder to other people. The 'sense of being stared at' is simply a test case.      Sheldrake has extended his experiments to the animal kingdom, especially the inter-action or rapport between pets and owners. There may be limitations to the 'biological' bases that Sheldrake uses to justify his experiments, not least because the powers or energies he is dealing with seem to be psychic, or psycho-physical, rather than physical. Still, I object to the remarks of certain reviewers, who suggest that there is an element of academic posing in Sheldrake's work. Luckly, I had a chance to meet Sheldrake last year - at the British Library. He struck me as a modest man, unpretentious, genuinely curious about life and its mysteries. He shew videos in the lecture theatre at the B.L., giving ample illustration to his theories -about pets who know when their owners are returning home, even when separated by hundreds of miles.      An Australian friend of mine, who had once endeavoured to educate Aborigines in the ways of the white man, returned from Ayer's Rock, totally changed in outlook, after discovering that the Aborigines invariably knew - days in advance, when someone was coming - and even the day of their arrival, without the use of a telephone or any other visible means. For them, it was a matter of fact that they could discern such things.      During my brief encounter with Sheldrake, I mentioned J.W. Dunne's book - 'An Experiment with Time' - in which Dunne related details of dreams, which concerned future events. It led Dunne to postulate his own theory of the 'extended mind' and minds as fields. Moving out of the fixed 'spatial' boundary i.e. the idea of consciousness as 'in here' - is one step.  Moving beyond temporal boundaries - the idea of time as strictly 'linear' - is another.	2005-07-14
US	16056234	R1P8TTF575I75O	0802130550	760708497	An Introduction to Zen Buddhism	Books	5	11	14	N	N	All's Well that Ends Well. Still a useful introduction.	I'm inclined to write this review, because it was sad to hear the criticism heaped upon Suzuki's 'Intro' by one particular reader (\\"Much Ado About Nothing \\").  <br /> <br /> It may well be that Suzuki occasionally gave the impression that he was down on Indian Buddhism and saving his praise for Zen. But remember, this man gave us the 'Lankavatara Sutra' (and a supplementary volume to go with it - 'Studies in the Lankavatara Sutra.').He also gave us a translation of Asvagosha's 'Mahayana Sraddhotpada Shastra' (The Awakening of Faith in the Mahayana).' The latter was presented in 1900, when English translations of Mahayana sources were scarce. The Lanka text was presented in 1934 and to date, it remains our only full length translation of this sutra. These were not the labours of a man down on Indian Buddhism.  <br /> <br /> Another point. The same reviewer who accused Suzuki of being down on Indian Buddhism, also averred that Suzuki's 'Intro' manifests a bias toward Rinzai Zen. This is a commonly held misconception about Suzuki's work. In fact, Suzuki's 'intro' contains material relating to masters who were not in the Rinzai school -e.g. Fa-yen, Tanka, Wan-shi, Chi-sha Daishi, Yoka, Te-shan,Yueh-shan etc. Suzuki certainly trained in Rinzai temples - and was without doubt the first Asian Buddhist to put 'Rinzai Zen' on the map.'  <br /> <br /> However, it might be noted that the text Suzuki favoured drawing on for his Zen anecdotes - the 'Dentoroku' (Chuan Teng Lu) predated the rather 'black and white' distinctions made about 'Zen lineages in some of the later (Sung and post-Sung)sources. There is considerable over-lap between the teachings of the respective masters whose records appear in the Dentoroku or 'Transmission of the Lamp.' As such, it cannot be read as a kind of Rinzai 'manifesto' - and, Suzuki's translations reflected this open-ended quality. In this respect, Suzuki's translations had a freshness about them which was, in many ways, a much healthier mediumfor introducing Zen to Westerners, than the hybridly narrow accounts informing some of our budding 'Zen orthodoxies' today. Allied with Jung's perceptive observations - in the foreword specially written for this book, stressing the 'complete lack of presupposition' required - to find our way into the terrain opened up by Zen, this little book has life in it yet.	2005-07-14
US	16056234	R18APLYE4PC2C7	0700703381	969421363	The Selfless Mind: Personality, Consciousness and Nirvana in Early Buddhism	Books	2	15	27	N	N	Problematic	There seems to be a growing concensus that this text is flawed in certain key areas. Astutely, several reviewers have cited Pali sources which flatly refute the somewhat nihilistic views of the author. On close reading, it is surely evident that a denial of the 'self' identified with the skandhas does not deny the 'citta' as basis. Still, I don't think this observation is helpful, when Harvey's critics succumb to the temptation to translate 'citta' as 'soul.' Even so, the positive use of citta  as base, viz. - that which is freed from the influence of the skandhas, certainly represents 'Self' as ground. In the Mahaparinirvana Sutra, the Buddha even reintroduced explicit reference to the 'Self' - as Mahatman. As one of the reviewers has noted, the Buddha even used the term 'svabhava' for it - despite everything else said about 'ni-svabhava' vis-a-vis 'pratitya-samupada' and the skandhas.      It is worth noting that the Hindu critics of Buddhism have frequently mistaken it for nihilism, despite the fact that the Buddha denied nihilistic doctrines. We need to redefine the terms we are using  - and, recover the terms we have forgotten.	2005-07-13
US	16056234	R3P3X2UN0D3LM8	1852301821	984123910	003: Meister Eckhart: Sermons and Treatises (Meister Eckhart Vol. 3)	Books	5	18	18	N	N	The definitive Full-length version.	It is pleasure to see this full length translation of Eckhart's 'Sermons & Treatises' - based on the monumental Kohlhammer edition - 'Meister Eckhart: die deutschen Werke' incorporating years of research by Josef Quint, to ensure that the sources were authentic. Moreover, nobody could have been more worthy of undertaking this translation - than M. O'C Walshe. By nature, a modest man, quiet and unassuming, diffident about his abilities, he was nevertheless the ideal person to take on this translation. Before his retirement, he had been Reader in German and Deputy Director of the Germanic Institute at the University of London. He was an authority on Medieval German Literature and Middle High German, nurtured by years of study at the Universities of Berlin, Gottingen, Vienna and Freiburg. No less important, is the fact that the translator possessed distinct spiritual qualities, not always found in academic groves. Besides his facility with German, Maurice Walshe also had a skilful and sympathetic command of Pali which grew out of his affinity with Buddhism, marked by a lifelong commitment to The English Sangha Trust, bringing him in touch with leading Theravadin teachers in the West. No mere bookworm then, Walshe sought to understand Buddhism as a spiritual discipline,undertaking various periods of 'retreat' in Theravadin Buddhist centres. This undoubtedly had bearing on his approach to Eckhart, as regards spiritual sensitivities.      The material presented here constitutes the bulk of Eckhart's  Sermons & Treatises in German - ninety-seven in all. For those who may require it, Walshe has cross-referenced the entries in the Kolhammer edition with those of Pfeiffer/Evans. Nevertheless, such references have been kept to a minimum, leaving the reader free to savour Eckhart's wisdom without impediment. Volume 1 has a preface and introduction, giving something of the background to Eckhart's life and thought. This thoughtfully included a mystical poem, possibily Eckhart's- 'The Grain of Mustard-Seed' - which, whether by the 'Meister' himself - or a follower, conveys in pithy form, the sort of intuitions at work in Eckhart's mind. Part of the introduction touches on the unfortunate circumstances which led to Eckhart being accused of heresy. A supplementary note lists the 'Articles Condemned In the Bull of John XXII' (In Agro Dominico), 27th March, 1379. On an ironic note, Walshe adds that the Pope who had condemned Eckhart - was later accused of holding heretical views, himself. Readers interested in this matter can find Eckhart's 'Defense' in the Blakney translation. For his own part, Walshe avoids overburdening commentaries.   He observes:           \\"Meister Eckhart remains a great, and for many a        perplexing figure. Attempts at interpreting his           thought are legion. The first task, however, is        to try to present as clearly as possible what he        said, not forgetting the context of his historical       situation. Only when this has been done, can we        hope to understand his message . . .Apart from one       or two technical notes, the translator has nothing       further to say, but simply and humbly to offer        this version. \\"        Still, as Walshe says in this introduction, paraphrasing Eckhart:        \\"This birth of Christ that Eckhart speaks of is      not a historical event that occurred in Bethlehem      on a particular date, once and for all - it is the      Eternal Now. God begets His Son in the soul      continually and without interruption. It is possible     for Christ to be born in any man's soul because       human nature is one, and is therefore the same in     Christ as in every man. Of course this birth of     Christ does not in fact occur in every human soul,     but the potentiality is there. It is only necessary     to create the right conditions.         What, then, is the essential prerequisite for      the birth of Christ in my soul? It is detachment,     self abandonment (galazenheit, abgescheidenheit).     Thus Eckhart \\"The Eternal Word never put on a     person. Therefore, leave whatever is personal in     you and whatever you are, and just take your bare     human nature, then you will be to the Eternal Word     just what his human nature is to him. For your     human nature and his are not different: it is one     nature, for what is in Christ, that it is in you.\\"      (No. 94).             In one way or another, Eckhart's thought revolves around this essential identity. Perhaps 'identity' is the wrong term, because for Eckhart, what we are in actuality, is inseparable from the uncreated spiritual 'ground' (grunt) of the soul. He refers to it as an interior 'castle' (burgelin), not that it is alien to the world of forms, but because it constitutes the true ground of all things. Hence, Eckhart refers to this inner turn as a homecoming, to be 'self-contained' or rooted in our true nature (Inne Sein, Inne Bleiben). But anyway, savour Eckhart's words for their own worth. Walshe's translation gives you the best of Eckhart.      [...]	2005-07-12
US	16056234	RB49OS8ICHI79	0486431355	774263423	A Shakespearian Grammar: An Attempt to Illustrate Some of the Differences Between Elizabethan and Modern English	Books	5	10	10	N	N	A unique and well informed study	The great beauty of Abbott's study is that it is pre-eminently readable. Still, there's no pleasing some people. One reviewer has criticised Abbott's book as 'unreadable.' Perhaps it is, if you can't be bothered to stretch your mind to embrace the quite difference nuances of Shakespearian English - as against our own.But - wasn't that the purpose of the book, anyway?  <br /> <br /> Whoever you are - if you like Shakespeare, your appreciation of his work - plays and poems alike, will be enhanced by digesting the lessons and examples cited in Abbott's book, which has served us valuably since its first appearence - in 1869. It is, admittedly, a painstaking work. As such, it contains an abundance of detail which may - on first sight, seem rather overwhelming. But after all, would any reader be happy to find that the author has reneged on his duties? With Shakespeare, much often hinges on the nuance of simple particles. Abbott has carefully collated material exemplifying Shakespeare's use of grammatical particles and their place in sentence construction - spanning adverbs, adjectives, articles, conjunctions, prepositions, pronouns, relative pronouns, verbs, inflections, tenses, ellipses, prefixes, contractions, word lengthenings etc. - with supplementary observations about prosody, pronunciation thrown in for good measure. <br /> <br /> If certain grammatical useages have left you wondering about the nuance of a particular line or passage in Shakespeare's work, Abbot's study will surely help. Quite obviously, idioms no longer in current use are likely to be among the first we wish to check out. However, more importantly, in a sense, this book will yield unexpected discoveries when it comes to the understandable but regrettable error, of reading a contemporary nuance into terms or idioms which had an entirely different meaning in Shakespeare's age. In short, as against idioms which are unfamiliar and therefore elicit conscious doubt, some of the trickier parts of Shakespeare are to be found in sentences which seem to resemble modern English - but carry another meaning. The fact that Abbott had to devote seven or eight pages to explaining the multivalent potentiality of a simple term like -'but,' is instructive viz. - <br /> <br />   \\"And, but she spoke it dying,  <br />    I would not believe her lips.'  Cymb. v. 5. 41 <br /> <br /> - meaning \\"unless she spoke it dying. . .\\"  <br /> <br />   \\"Have you no countermand for Claudio yet <br />    But he must die tomorrow? \\" M for M. iv. 2. 95 <br /> <br /> - meaning 'to prevent that he must die' (or prevent his death).  <br /> <br />   \\" It cannot be but I am pigeon-livered\\"  <br />      Hamlet, ii. 2. 605  <br /> <br /> i.e. \\" It cannot be that I am otherwise than a coward.\\"  <br /> <br />     \\" Her head's declined and death will seize her, but  <br />       Your comfort makes her rescue.\\" A. & C. iii, 11, 48 <br /> <br />    - i.e. \\"only your your comfort. . . . \\" <br /> <br />  <br />Or consider this use of the relative pronoun: <br /> <br />    \\"I hate the murderer, love him murdered. \\"  <br />         - Rich. 11. v. 5. 40 <br /> <br /> -  which seems to mean \\"I love the fact that he is <br />murdered, \\" when it actually means \\"I loved him that was <br />murdered. \\"  <br /> <br /> Again, without a primer such as Abbott's, we are unlikely to negotiate our way through the semantic minefield represented by the varied nuances of 'thou, thee and thine' etc. We might suppose that they all signify a straightforward equivalent for 'you' and 'yours' etc. in modern English - but, a repeated use of 'thou' is sometimes pejorative, especially when addressed to strangers, something we would not suspect, unless alerted to this convention. Even more complex, perhaps, is the alternate use of 'thou' and 'you' - in compound sentences. This was not - as we might be tempted to think, a shift between 'formal' and casual forms of address. The 'you' was also formal. In this respect, the subtle nuances of Elizabethan English resemble Japanese, insofar as the stress upon - or relative neglect of - an honorific, can convey approval or contempt, without having to say too much in the process. This is the other side to Shakespearian English, which is not always expressed in 'crisp' epithets of the 'much-ado-about-nothing' or 'all's-well-that-ends well' type. These subtle inflexions are an essential aspect of Shakespeare's English and despite its relatively dated origins, Abbott's study remains one of the best places to look for a guide to the grammar of Shakespearian English.	2005-07-12
US	16056234	R1ND564SDF81YZ	0807059773	997857366	History of Zen Buddhism	Books	3	7	7	N	N	This text is the first edition	The original format or first edition of this text was atrocious. It was peppered with triumphalist 'Catholic' comments. However, the revised and expanded edition in Two Volumes (1. China, 2. Japan)- about to be reprinted and expanded yet again, was a brilliant and sensitive work, written with a much humbled outlook, full of useful references and summaries. Don't waste money on the old text (some s/hand copies sell for up to $50 dollars. In a matter of months, the new edition will be available - and, well worth buying.	2005-07-11
US	16056234	R3M56ZIH1BSUCG	0674091256	256131299	The Cambridge Platonists (Stratford-Upon-Avon Library)	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Absolutely lucid!	[...]<br />  If you are curious about the Cambridge Patonists, Patrides carefully edited selection of texts gives you the cream of the crop! - Benjamin Whichcote, Ralph Cudworth, John Smith, Henry More et al. - material reprinted from the original texts, complete with all the archaic but fascinating English spellings. The texts are fully annotated with comparisons and<br />references to a wide range of cognate works.<br /><br /> If you are reading the Cambridge Platonists as part of an academic exercise or are otherwise familiar with their milieu, well and good. You will know what to expect. I think it is worth saying something here - for the general reader. I am sufficiently 'unmodern' (or perhaps 'un-postmodernist') to<br />read the Cambridge Platonists because I think they still have something valuable to say!<br /><br /> Not everyone would agree with me - but, I think the portrait of Benjamin Whichcote which graces the cover of this book (and the frontispiece) says something about the sort of men we are dealing with. (The portrait still hangs in the gallery at Emmanuel College, Cambridge). There is composure in that expression. It seems to infuse the whole being of the man. It is the expression of a mind which has found calm waters,<br />seen eternal verities.<br /><br />  One of the papers in this book - Ralph Cudworth's, was preached as a Sermon Before the House of Commons (i.e. the British Parliament). Things are different with us today. We are no longer certain of eternal verities. It seems almost incomprehensible - now, to think that when the Cambridge Platonists were expounding their ideas in the 17th c., they were touching on matters of concern to most thinking people.<br />Religion and science had not yet parted company (despite being called a 'father of modern science' in school books, Issac Newton was a deeply religious man, very much in tune with the ideas of the Cambridge Platonists).<br /><br /> The great beauty of the Cambridge Platonists, is theircalm confidence, their utter conviction that there are eternal verities, that Reason and Faith are complementary faculties. Thus, on the one hand, they looked back to the philosophers of antiquity (strictly speaking, they are Neo-Platonists, taking in everything between Plato, Plotinus, Ficino/Renaissance thought, even Hermeticism) - and the legacy of Christianity, while on the other hand - they were alive to the emerging 'scientific' spirit, the renewed quest to understand the principles ordering the phenomenal universe. For them, there was an Intelligent - and intelligible order in the universe. For them, Reason (capital R) still had its pre-Kantian, classical sweep. 'Reason' was not a mere idea in the head, an itching in the cranium, but presupposed the divine Nous (intellect), intimately connected with the activity of a divine energy (energeia)informing the pattern of the universe. We find them preaching against false religious 'enthusiasm' - as soundly as they preached against atheism.<br /><br />  \\"Good men spiritualise their bodies; bad men do<br />  incarnate their souls. \\"<br /><br />  \\"We are no more than Second causes; and our<br />  Suffiency is only in God, who is the First.<br />  A Second Cause is no Cause, divided from<br />  the First. \\"<br /><br />  - Benjamin Whichcote.	2005-07-08
US	16056234	R2OG7QZYPBKH4F	0766133532	361612765	Meister Eckhart: A Modern Translation  (1941)	Books	5	39	41	N	N	A classic	<br />        \\"The Eye with which I see God  <br />        is the eye with which God sees me\\"  <br /> <br />                 - Meister Eckhart.  <br /> <br />  <br /> <br />  Almost everyone drawn to Eckhart agrees that he makes engaging reading. The writings of this 14th c German mystic are veritable 'essen' - spiritual food. As Blakney says. . .\\"Eckhart breathed his own endless vitality into the juiceless formulas of orthodox theology with such charm and passion that even the most common people heard them gladly. \\" Eckhart's pregnant sayings function rather like Christian koans, de-centering and then re-centering the mind, elevating thought to the unthinkable. <br /> <br /> As Blakney observed, we often think of Eckhart's age as one of juiceless aridities - viz. Nietzsche's and Heidegger's strictures against Christianity as - 'Platonism for the masses'  <br />- pallid abstractions. A serious reading of Eckhart shows us the other side of the coin, for Eckhart breathes spiritual vitality. In this, he wasn't alone. 14th c Europe witnessed a great flowering of mysticism. . .Julian of Norwich, The 'Cloud <br />of Unknowing,'Catherine of Sienna - to name but a few. Eckhart epitomised this movement and remains one of its most outstanding voices.  <br /> <br /> If you haven't yet read Eckhart, you can be sure that savouring his words will change your perception of Christianity. D.T. Suzuki - who more or less paved the way for Zen in the West, had a soft spot for Eckhart ('inked' references to Eckhart even found their way into the edition of the 'Rinzai Roku' issued by Suzuki at Matsugaoka Zen Bunka).  <br /> <br /> One reviewer has criticised Blakney's translation (1941), on the grounds that it was based on dated and poorly edited material (Pfeiffer, 1857). While I would certainly recommend reading recent translations based on the Kohlhammer text (1955, ed. Josef Quint), Blakney's translation has merits of its own. The translation is lively. It has a useful preface, with a glossary explaining some of the key terms used by Eckhart. This is followed by an absorbing Introduction, giving the general reader a good idea of Eckhart's background. Rest assured, the core material Blakney has presented gives you the 'quintessential' Eckhart. The disputed parts of the Pfeiffer text play a negligible role here and are unlikely to trouble the general reader. There are now a number of handy-sized, single volume 'introductions' to Eckhart - in English, but they tend to be rather dry. Blakney's was an inspired translation, and still represents the best account of Eckhart in an affordable, single volume - with enough supplementary material to give the general reader a useful grounding in Eckhart's background. You get a good spread of material: <br /> <br />  (1) The Talks of Instruction.(2) The Book of Divine Comfort.  <br />(3) The Aristocrat.(4) About Disinterest. (5) Sermons. <br />(6) Fragments. (7) Legends.(8) The Defence.  <br /> <br /> The text has extensive notes, which are placed unobtrusively at the back of the book. There is a useful bibliography.  <br /> <br /> What Eckhart says about 'disinterest' (abgescheidenheit) colours just about everything else he had to say. It is the opposite of clinging to the truth. It is not 'disinterest' in the common sense, but signifies humility, poverty of spirit, self-emptying. He sometimes used the term 'sich lassen' - 'letting go' - to find the truth, just as Zen masters speak of 'opening the hand of thought.' One strain of Christian feeling comes over as very much 'clinging bound,' and with his characteristic humour, Eckhart once said that 'men wish to use God - as they use a cow.' They want to 'squeeze' something out of the spirit. Alas, the 'clinging-bound' view of religion comes very much to the fore in the material titled the 'Defense.' It is Eckhart's reply to those who accused him of 'heresy.' Having savoured the sublimity of Eckhart's thought and teaching, the 'Defence' makes painful reading.It arguably  exemplifies everything that was then wrong with the Church. Reading this material, it is evident that Eckhart's accusers betrayed a pathetic lack of understanding. In some cases, they even made quite orthodox elements of Christian doctrine or scripture - seem 'heretical' - and you can sense Eckhart's frustration, as he labours to point out that 'such-and-such was said in this gospel,' 'but does not Our Lord say. . .' etc. Still, that certain elements of Eckhart's thought did border on heresy, according to the understanding of the day - is what got him into trouble. . . <br /> <br />            \\"I Therefore pray God, that he may set  <br />             me free from god\\" (Hier umbe so bitte ich  <br />             got, daz er mich quit mache gotes)  <br /> <br />- although in fact, St.Paul had said much the same thing. The outcome of this sorry business was messy. Eckhart appealed against the charges brought before him, clearing himself to an extent in a preliminary hearing, but the Church delayed a further hearing, and finally denied Eckhart's appeal for one. He died before getting news of it. The Church hit him from behind - and condemned his writings, which thereafter languished for centuries, more or less unread. On an ironic note, and rather like 'Spy v Spy' in 'Mad' magazine, the Pope responsible for having the charges brought against Eckhart, was eventually charged with heresy, himself. These days, it seems, few in the Church would bat an eyelid over Eckhart's ideas. The revival of interest in Eckhart is one good thing about the age we live in. If Christianity is about the pursuit of disinterested truth, Eckhart should have been 'canonised' centuries ago.	2005-07-06
US	16056234	R372GBOVLGBSZ9	0824822439	521286402	Obaku Zen: The Emergence of the Third Sect of Zen in Tokugawa Japan	Books	5	22	22	N	N	An interesting account	This book constitutes the first detailed English-language study of the Obaku branch of Japanese Zen, hitherto nelected in Western studies. It endeavours to outline the background to the emergence of the Obaku-shu in the Tokugawa and its reception within the Japanese community - secular and religious.      While not claiming to be a guide to the practices of the Obaku-shu, Baroni's study does touch on the distinctive methods which have characterised the school. To this end, Baroni has examined primary sources detailing the formation of the Obaku-shu, including those available at the Mampukuji Obakuzan, the Honzan or main temple of the Obaku-shu in Uji, near Kyoto. As Baroni observes \\"Rinzai scholars have generally dismissed Obaku as an abberant or even heretical form of Rinzai practice , the study of which adds nothing significant to an understanding of Rinzai teaching or history. \\" A current Western Zen glossary has described the Obaku-shu as 'practically of no importance today' - but, with 460 temples scattered throughout Japan(587, including smaller branch temples), that is unfair judgement.Baroni's study goes some way to revise that rather jaundiced perspective.  However, she has included material from Mujaku Dochu's 'Obaku-geki' and Keirin Sushin's 'Zenrin Shuhei shu' - which present the Obaku-shu in a less  than favourable light.          As a relatively 'late' arrival (most of the famous Rinzai and  Soto temples in Japan had been established in the Kamakura), the appearance of Ingen Zenji (1592-1673) and teachings informed  by the 'Ming' re-statement of Ch'an/Zen, aroused mixed reactions. It effectively led to the formation of the 'Obaku-shu' as the 'third' school of Zen in Japan. This says something about the politics of Japanese Buddhism, for technically speaking, Ingen - the Chinese founder of the Obaku Shu, came from a Lin-chi(Rinzai) background. Going by Baroni's remarks, it seems doubtful whether the authorities who invited Ingen to take up residence inWestern Japan had originally envisaged setting up a 'third' school. Baroni explores the various tensions which led to the formation of the 'Obaku-shu' as a separate entity in Japanese Zen Buddhism.      Ostensibly, the chief issue here, likely to be of interest to Western Buddhists, is the status of the Obaku-shu's joint Zen/Pure-Land -practice. While some of the Kyoto Buddhist fraternity welcomed the arrival of 'fresh blood' from China, others seem to have adopted a less favourable view. As noted above, Ingen's teaching reflected Ch'an/Zen as found in its 'Ming' style (the incorporation of Pure-land practices with Ch'an/Zen, by then having become an established fact). Alongside other factors, this was not to the likings of key figures at the Myoshinji, even though Ingen had been invited to Western Japan through the initative of Ryokei (1602-1670) -  then Abbot of Myoshinji, who had even envisaged placing Ingen in charge of this renowned temple. Expectations had been high, after the first reports of Ingen's teaching came from the temples in Nagasaki, where Ingen had more or less been confined since his arrival in Japan.      What Baroni relates concerns a rather complex process of inculturation. Up to a point, the very appeal of Ingen's circle was its 'Chineseness.' Without offering a contrast, or some distinguishing feature to set it apart from the established Zen schools, the Obaku-shu would not have been able to garner support or patronage. As we learn from Hakuin's experience, Rinzai Zen was in a state of decline in the Tokugawa. Hence, the fresh arrival of Chinese masters promised to be a welome source of stimulation. The downside to this, is that the Obaku-shu appears to have cultivated certain elitist traits, encouraged by - or affected by, some Japanese supporters. It seems that some monks in Ingen's circle paraded their 'Chinese' orthodoxy a little too ostentatiously. Still, the extent to which Ingen personally chose to exploit the 'difference' remains open to question. As we have noted, in the context of Chinese Buddhism, Ingen was technically a member of the Rinzai (Lin-chi)shu. Paradoxically, the title 'Obaku-shu' (Huang Po sect or school) suggests identity, even as it marks or signifies difference, for the name was taken from the mountain/temple where Rinzai's master (Huang-po) had been ordained. In the years prior to his departure for Japan, Ingen had presided over the restoration of the Obaku-zan Mampukuji (Huang-po shan, Wan Fu Ssu) in Fujian.      To an extent, the defining 'difference' -  what set the Obaku-shu apart, had been determined by external factors. In other respects, doctrinal and institutional factors - peculiar to Ingen's background, did make him different. Along with the joint Zen/Pure Land practice, Ingen had introduced a revised form of ordination ceremony, utilising a platform with three levels (san-dan kaie). In itself, that ought not to have presented problems. However, Ingen's transmission line was linked with Fei-yin's 'Wu Teng yen-tung' (J. Goto gento) - 'The Exact Lineage of the Five Lamps' effectively claiming to present a 'revised' definition of the major Ch'an lineages. Fei-yin's account made Ingen's transmission line the 'Lin-chi chen-tsung' (J. Rinzai shoshu) or 'authentic school of Lin-chi Ch'an.' Given the bearing this would have had upon Rinzai centres in Japan, whose 'orthodoxy' had been shaped centuries before Fei-yin penned the 'Wu Teng yen tung,'one might have expected to find this issue discussed at length - but, somewhat surprisingly, Baroni says relatively little about the matter, confining her remarks in that respect, to four or five pages. Far from registering opposition, Baroni notes the positive influence the 'Wu-teng yen-tung' exerted, convincing  Japanese Buddhists such as Choon (1628-1695)to approach Ingen. Retrospectively, Fei-yin's lineage chart included the eminent Chung-feng (1262-1323), whose influence upon Japanese Rinzai Zen had been considerable. Choon felta particular affinity with Chung-feng's teachings, and thus placed himself under Ingen's tutelage. Choon secured patronage in Edo, and eventually founded the Zuisho-ji, Obaku's main temple in Edo, going on to found twenty- five branch temples in the provinces of Kozuke and Shinano. As such, the Obaku-shu is not quite the isolated school it has sometimes been painted as. It is of note that the retired Emperor, Gomizunoo, placed himself under Ingen's tutelage, albeit indirectly, according to custom, through a senior Japanese monk, and evidently practised with sufficient resolve, to be listed as 'Zen-ji' in Obaku-shu records.     The Obaku-shu's rather distant relationship with the Rinzai temples in Kyoto and other centres, brings us back to the question of its definining practices. Explicit critics of the Obaku-shu, such as Muchaku Dochu, had felt troubled by the prospect of joint Zen/'Pure-land' practice' - with 'ethnic' complications to boot. His 'Obaku Geki' is scathing toward the Obaku-shu, frowning on the way certain Obaku followers touted their 'Chinese' orthodoxy. There appears to have been a kind of 'double snobbery' involved. Looking back to their roots in the Kamakura, influenced by eminent monks from Sung China, or else Japanese masters who had visited Sung China, some Japanese Buddhists began to parade their own brand of elitism. Still, it is worth noting that the Obaku-shu regarded some koan practices - by then well established in Japanese Rinzai Zen - as sterile and artificial, which raises the question whether they were of Chinese origin at all, despite the usual assumptions. Baroni notes that according to the records, Ingen often devised spontaneous koan of his own, according to the situation - without reference to the quasi-canonical sources (e.g. the Hekiganroku, Mumonkan etc.). It is a pity that Baroni did not make more of such material.      Hakuin - writing in the later Tokugawa, was critical of joint Zen/Pure Land practice - but, strangely enough, he refers to it as if it had been a relatively recent phenomenon. It first appeared with definite shape, as part of an explicit 'synthesis' - in the teachings of Yung Ming (904-975)and especially his 'Tsung-Ching Lu' (Jp. Sugyoroku) - a work not only well known to Japanese Buddhists in the Rinzai 'Gozan' (Five Mountain)system, but reprinted by them in the late Kamakura and Muromachi periods. Eminent monks such as Enni Benen (1202-1280) in charge of the Tofukuji, had given lectures on this text. The Tenryuji had authorised a reprint in 1371. Earlier generations of monks in the Rinzai tradition had evidently taken a deep interest in Yung-ming's ideas, embracing a 'synthesis' between Zen and Pure Land. Thus, all things considered, it would be hard to argue that Ingen's teaching per se, represented a radical departure from these earlier precedents. Hence, derogatory appelations such as 'Ming Zen' need to be viewed with caution, if the intention is to present the Sung-influenced Zen of the Kamakura as a 'purer' model - devoid of 'syncretistic' elements. Besides, Chung-feng -who lived well after the Sung, and whose writings had been extolled by Hakuin, also recognised 'Pure Land' practices. Hakuin hadn't rejected the 'Pure-land' method as such, and even recommended it as a separate practice. He just didn't think it was a good idea to combine them. The problem here, is that the type of 'Pure Land' practice which had struck the dominant note in Japanese Buddhism (i.e. Shinran's) more or less ruled out 'joint-practice.' As an extreme form of 'tariki' or reliance on 'other power,' it was hard to reconcile with Zen and its stress on 'jiriki' or 'self-power.' Still, Baroni is clear about the fact that this problem would not have applied to the Obaku-shu's understanding of 'joint-practice' - for whom 'Pure-land' would not have meant absolute 'tariki. For its own part, the perspective of the Obaku-shu is 'Pure-land on the outside, Zen on the inside.' There may be conscious irony in the fact that Hakuin had called Ming-style Ch'an -'Zen on the outside, Pure-land on the inside' - without explicitly naming the Obaku-shu.      Alas, Baroni didn't explore enough of the historical background to place these 'doctrinal' questions in their broader context. Had she noted the influence of the 'Sugyoroku' upon the 'Gozan' system in Kamakura Japan, it would have been less tempting to draw sharp distinctions between an allegedly 'pure' Sung Zen, and the syncretistic tendencies of 'Ming' Zen. As such, Baroni's account tends to bolster the caricature found in latter day Rinzai Zen literature. Some anecdotes in Mujaku Dochu's 'Obaku-geki' - reflecting inter-action between Ingen and the Japanese monks at the Fumonji in Settsu-Tonda - seem unbelievably petty. He notes the complaints of monk called Gentei, who had objected to Ingen's jest about the 'bottom of the barrel dropping out' (a well known Zen idiom for enlightenment), on the occasion of a rice bucket falling apart. It is surprising that Mujaku Dochu expressed resentment toward such humour among the Chinese monks, for he was well versed in the Ch'an classics, which are full of such humour and - alas, such criticism looks like ill-will, unbecoming of this otherwise excellent character. At the worst, the Obaku-shu's Japanese critics even averred that the 'Ming' Chinese were all 'Mongols' - who no longer spoke Chinese! In this respect, the story of Ingen's arrival and the establishment of the Obaku-shu is a mixed bag. It was to be overshadowed by the appearance of Hakuin, anyway, but it is probably true to say that the arrival of Ingen and its impact roused the spirit of the Japanese Buddhists, making them reassess their position, strike fresh initiatives. We might note that Tao-che, active in Nagasaki, an eminent Chinese master and collateral heir in Ingen's transmission line, exerted direct influence upon Bankei Yotaku (1622-1693).         As an institution, it has admittedly remained smaller than the Soto-shu or Rinzai-shu, but along with Bankei's influence, the Obaku-shu probably helped clear the way for a revival of Rinzai Zen - under Hakuin. The Obaku-shu does have its merits. It is nice to be able to look at Zen, without 'thinking' in terms of the Rinzai-Soto divide (which is by no means absolute, anyway). The whole temple complex at Mampukuji is basically a 'Ming dynasty' style temple, in perfect condition. It has long cultivated its own forms of calligraphy etc. Tetsugen Zenji's Buddhist Press (just next door)is still in operation, making the hand carved boards or plates for reprinting copies of the Tripitaka. With various revisions, the Tetsugen/Obaka-shu edition of the Tripitaka provided the impetus for the Taisho Shinshu Daizokyo - the standard edition of the Sino-Japanese Tripitaka in use today. Another feature of the Obaku-shu, not without importance, is that it encouraged reading the Zen 'Goroku' (Yu-lu). When Ingen arrived in Japan, he was surprised to find that Japanese Rinzai monks had not read the 'Rinzai-roku' - more or less devoting their attention to the Mumonkan, Hekiganroku etc. Owing to Ingen's infuence, Japanese Rinzai monks once again began reading the Zen 'goroku.' Without that, it is unlikely that we would have Hakuin's excellent comments on classical Ch'an sources. Baroni doesn't say much about the Mampukuji - as a place to visit, but I recommend it - if you happen to be in the Kyoto area. The temple is magnifiscent. Most of the Buddhist statues (including the famous 'arhats'), ritual objects etc., are from Ming China. Visitors are welcome to look at the Tetsugen Buddhist Press, where you can buy beautiful samples of Buddhist iconography. Uji is famous for its Green-tea' and cha-no-yu at the Mampukuji has its own style. Ingen is also said to have introduced the 'Ingen Mame' bean to Japan. Chinese vegetarian food (fu-cha ryori) is still served at a nearby temple restaurant. There is a Za-zen kai on Thursdays - which lay visitors can attend. You will need to phone first, for that. The staff are very helpful.	2005-07-06
US	16056234	RZW0HHOSQA981	0340254726	596466975	The Wallace	Books	5	18	18	N	N	A compelling moving account, albeit in novel form.	If you were moved by 'Braveheart' - you'll enjoy this book.It is rumoured that some of Mel Gibson's scenes - on film, were elaborations of Tranter's imagery (Gibson probably culled ideas from a number of such sources).  <br /> <br /> The movie image of Wallace made him seem rather 'clean' - resorting to violence only insofar as it furthered the cause of independence, never as a wanton act of blood-lust. Some historians question that. Again, despite the bad image heaped upon the English (certainly deserving of it, in the historical context, especially Edward 'Longshanks'),there are those who argue that the Scottish nobility (basically Anglo-Scottish) oppressed the Scots, without anyone else's help. This ambivalence was evident in the movie, and it is still there in the book (viz. the 'wavering' Bruce).  <br /> <br /> As always, there are quibbles about historical details and facts. But when all is said and done, the basic story of William Wallace - or rather - 'The Wallace' as he is known in Scotland, is one of heroic struggle for independence. It is good to read Tranter's imaginative reconstruction of events, which evidently required historical research. Like the movie, reading this book made me feel something for 'The Wallace' - for the Scottish people, their suffering, their courage - and their pride. This story is moving, because it exemplies the polarity of human nature. On the one hand, the urge to subjugate and conquer, on the other, the equally strong urge to shake off the shackles of oppression. The latter represents the nobler side of human nature - and in the present world climate, the tale of William Wallace and his struggle remind us of what is at stake.	2005-07-06
US	16056234	R2YGOQBK1NPPQP	0521556406	939515081	An Introduction to Buddhist Ethics: Foundations, Values and Issues (Introduction to Religion)	Books	4	9	15	N	N	Generally, a useful study.	People who wish to learn more about 'Buddhist Ethics' will find this book useful. Along with Damien Keown's books, Peter Harvey's study will be invaluable for those who have neither the time nor the resources to explore primary sources for themselves.  <br /> <br /> Why only 'four stars' then? Like other reviewers, I'm not so sure that Buddhist Ethics can be reduced to 'natural ethics' - or regarded as analogous to natural ethics, on the assumption that as no 'God' is involved, we are safely outside 'theistic' considerations. In the wish to distance themselves from theocentric ethics, some Buddhists have tried to present Buddhism as 'natural' religion. But in actual fact, the terminology involved - either way, reflects Western categories of thinking.  <br /> <br /> Consider some of the problems here. Neo-pagans, the followers of 'Wicca' etc.- might well define themselves as adherents of 'natural' religion. Are we to conclude, then, that they are Buddhists - by another name?  <br /> <br /> Admittedly, much that we would define as 'ethical' - in Buddhism, is safely rooted in empirical experience. But on further examination, notions like 'karma' and karmic retribution cannot be 'explained' along purely naturalistic lines at all. Indeed, taken at face value, one could argue that nature per se, provides little evidence to support the idea of karma, which is quite important to the ethical world view of the Buddhists. I'm not questioning karma - in its proper context, I'm just stating that when push comes to shove, Buddhists do not attempt to account for karma in crude 'naturalistic' terms. Rather, it is part of an essentially spiritual world-view.  <br /> <br /> Hence, if not informed by 'theocentric' considerations, Buddhist ethics are - at their upper end, as it were, informed by assumptions of a 'transcendental' nature. I make this observation, because it is all too easy to approach Buddhism from the outside, believing that it is all neatly packaged, without any of the complications found in theocentric ethics.    <br />This is not a criticism of Buddhism, just a reminder that it cannot be confined to 'natural' ethics, and may not be the simple, strictly 'rational' creed we once imagined. <br /> <br /> For the most part, the ethical world view of the Buddhists is marked by impartiality, cool detachment, nothing fevered. Such detachment is evidently derived from something deeper than mere 'natural' religion.      <br />  <br />	2005-07-05
US	16056234	R1GZ4S97RO0PYB	0060607343	203380854	Everyday Zen: Love & Work	Books	5	6	9	N	N	Thoughtful	This book will strike some people as too simple, but there is a lot of truth in what the author has to say. For many Western people, Zen is never going to be a monastic career, and none of the truths central to it, are lost by being lived out in the fruitful bathos of daily life. Indeed, it might be there that most of us are going to discover what's truly important in life - and, what's unimportant. Where else is there - to look?  <br />My only reservation about the book, is that it tends to play down peak experiences - born of Zen practice, which are,in a sense, akin to what you might experience in a Zendo. Still, <br />if the great potentiality of Zen is to be found in 'chopping wood, carrying water' - why not begin in your own back yard?	2005-07-05
US	16056234	R28WB3IKQBNNWU	0415101204	540789799	Kierkegaard and Modern Continental Philosophy: An Introduction	Books	3	1	4	N	N	Interesting but cramped	This book will interest those who like Kierkegaard and wish to relate his work to that of more recent continental thinkers. Nevertheless, sensu strictu, it is unlikely that Kierkegaard - personally, would have approved of the kind of analyses which make this book 'tick.'       For the most part, Kierkegaard wrote pseudonymously - so as to avoid being identified with a fixed philosophical persona upon which readers might project themselves. By bringing Kierkegaard into dialogue with other thinkers, as a kind of philosophical entity in himself, Kierkegaard is no longer able to speak as he wished to be heard, through the stratagem of using diffused voices. Needless to say, this was the price which had to be paid - to write a study of this kind.      While handled sensitively, there are points where this book reads too much like a series of set lectures in philosophy, but that is hardly surprising, when the author is a lecturer in philosophy. Like Schopenhauer, Kierkegaard didn't have much time for university lecturers with their set pieces. That said, the author's endeavour to bounce Kierkegaardian ideas around in a kind of dialogue with later continental philosophers, has its merits. The inter-face between Kierkegaard and Heidegger struck me as the most problematic. It seems to have been written as if Heidegger's preoccupation with existential questions could be detached from his social philosophy (i.e. German National Socialism, with its anti-Christian stance). As a Christian, Kierkegaard would have seen Heidegger's (Nazi) social philosophy as a case of living in bad faith. Had the two philosophers met in actuality, it is unlikely that a dialogue would have followed. Heidegger turned his back on Platonism and revered Hegel. Keikegaard detested Hegel and made frequent references to Socrates and classicism. That way, they are like chalk and cheese, but you wouldn't guess that - reading this study. This book will suit people doing philosophy majors. If you want to savour Kierkegaard at his best, nothing less than the whole armoury of tricks will suffice.	2005-07-05
US	16056234	RZD40S2D8O1OO	0140195998	35439059	Zen and the Art of Making a Living: A Practical Guide to Creative Career Design (Compass)	Books	3	20	26	N	N	Some nice ideas, but too prolix to be Zen centered.	It would have been more honest (and less pretentious) if the author had not succumbed to the temptation to present this book as a kind of corollary of Zen. When push comes to shove, Zen Buddhism doesn't earn its living as a career-aid. Its primary purpose is to help provide an answer to the problem of suffering and impermanence (as the Buddha taught) - albeit in a form developed by Far-eastern Buddhists.  <br /> <br /> If Zen has anything to say - about getting through life in this world, almost all of it can be summed up with the axiom - don't plan on staying around, shed excess baggage, find what was there - before you were born! That isn't the message in this book. It is too long-winded. The best ideas in it could have been presented in a third of the space used.Save trees!	2005-07-05
US	16056234	RSFTMZ5GGQUB4	0060638508	714001797	Being and Time	Books	1	40	150	N	N	The most over-rated book/philosopher of the last century	I hate to be a kill-joy, but I'm tired of rave reviews, which fail to take stock of what Heidegger's philosophy meant - when tranlated into his chosen social (German/Aryan supremacist)context. Like the 'Introduction to the Metaphysics,' this book says more about Heidegger's preconceptions - than the actuality of 2,500 Years of Western philosophy.      Heidegger regarded 2,500 years of Western philosophy as a compounded error - built on Platonism. But what drove Plato to philosophize? The answer - Thaumazein - the 'wonder of being.'      Neo-Platonism was the driving force behind the Renaissance, via Ficino, Mirandella etc., anything but a sign of the 'forgetfulness of Being' attributed to Platonism or Platonists - by Heidegger. And what did Heidegger's Nazi philosophy spawn? Death camps, enslavement, human misery on an unprecedented scale. Heidegger 'enthusiasts' have been in denial too long, over the implicit connection between Heidegger's critique of traditional philosophy and his espousal of Nazi politics. But if you read Farias - 'Heidegger & Nazism,' which documents the German philosopher's involvement with the Nazi movement, it becomes clear that Heidegger supported German National Socialism because it appeared to give room for his philosophy. Even after the war, when the scale of the Nazi holocaust became clear, Heidegger remained mute about his support for the Nazi party and made no 'moral' revaluations in that respect.  All the talk about 'destiny' etc., in Heidegger's writings, was part of that. Don't read this stuff as if it was meant to live in a social vacuum.	2005-07-01
US	16056234	R20WCSSCFXEHPY	0140442278	708519048	Essays and Aphorisms (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	9	11	N	N	A good introduction	R.J.Hollingdale was judicious in his choice of material for this text which makes a good 'primer' for reading Schopenhauer <br />at length. Hollingdale's introduction provides a useful profile on the German philosopher and his background. As other reviewers have remarked, Schopenhauer presented his ideas very clearly and such is the clarity of his thought, you get the feeling that he is addressing you personally. Considering that he is touching on the mysteries of life as a kind of theatre-cum-battle-ground, in which the will struggles to act out its purposes, accompanied by a kind of continuous ground bass of suffering, you might expect Schopenhauer to be heavy going. But his essays are frequently peppered with wit and lively turns of phrase.  <br /> <br /> Notorious for his contempt of Hegel, the preacher of philosophical optimism, for whom God mutates into the State and thereafter bestows order and felicity with the precision of a Swiss clock(Schopenhauer said that in Hegel's philosophy, the 'turkeys fly around ready roasted'!)- Schopenhauer railed against such bloodless abstractions. This false optimism prevailed well into the late 19th c and even the early 20th c, promising that science and social engineering - the cult of 'progress' - would eventually remove most of life's ills. <br />For his own part, Schopenhauer saw that all such ventures were likely to remain impotent in the face of human suffering, in his eyes, the most immediate fact of life. For Schopenhauer, the will-to-live and the struggle for existence were synonymous with suffering, and however you dressed it up, it remained the ground bass to life. For the prophets of 'progress' perhaps, that sounded like cowardice, cosmic stage fright. But after all, Buddhism has taught the truth of suffering for 2,500 years. It is well known that Schopenhauer availed himself of Buddhist and Hindu teachings and therefore, the interface between them is worth exploring. In other respects, Schopenhauer remained very much a European, drawing on classical sources and, of course, Kant's philosophy.  <br />Schopenhauer's views on the arts were interesting, seeing all true art as a blessed space in which the struggle of subjective 'willing' might be silenced, leaving us free to see the world as idea or pure 'objectivity.' Schopenhauer was a keen student of human psychology and the peculiar forces shaping human character. His stress on the primacy of the will, and the fact that he regarded the intellect as secondary to it, anticipated much found in Freud and Jung. Hence, these essays and aphorisms make engaging reading.	2005-07-01
US	16056234	R3O7PTYDCN74BQ	0521577667	110181016	Prize Essay on the Freedom of the Will (Cambridge Texts in the History of Philosophy)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Engaging, but open to question.	Almost everyone agrees that - here, Schopenhauer made a convincing case for denying free-will. Nevertheless, I would argue that if we look back to the influence Kant's work exerted on Schopenhauer, and review Schopenhauer's own remarks about the validity of empirical knowledge, it must surely be that Schopenhauer landed himself in difficulties. On his own reading of Kant's philosophy, and those parts of it which he incorporated into his own work, the 'willing' subject, sensu strictu, cannot be said to exist in space and time, but only to be working through those categories in the understanding. <br /> <br /> If time and space are transcendentally ideal - as Schopenhauer asserted, following Kant, he ought to have known better than to locate the 'will' in time and space, when according to his own reckoning, 'time and space are in us.'  <br /> <br /> Kant distinguished here, between 'will' and 'willkuhr' - that is, the practical difference between the will grounded in the noumenon, and the will seen in its phenomenal or empirical  <br />employment. Insofar as Schopenhauer adopted Kant's distinction between appearance and reality, viz. the ideality of time and space, it surely follows that by denying free-will, Schopenhauer was denying a key element in his own philosophy. In short, his argument against 'free-will' amounts to a simplistic observation - namely, 'your willing takes place in the empirical world. The empirical world is conditioned. Ergo, your willing is conditioned' - as if he had suddenly forgotten everything else said in his philosophy, about the ideality of time and space.  <br /> <br /> By arguing that 'free will' - in the empirical manifold, is simply comparative or relative - viz., when confronted with choices - Schopenhauer was stating the obvious. In this respect, Schopenhauer's position was not unlike that of certain early Buddhists, who almost made Buddhism into a form of determinism. To do that, they had to advocate a kind of empirical realism, while denying any reality to the 'pudgala.' But in actual fact, Schopenhauer's position vis-a-vis the ideality of the phenomenal world, more nearly resembled the Vijnanavada/Yocacara. What mattered to Kant (and what surely matters to anyone else, defending the case for free-will), is that considered as noumenon (i.e. our unconditioned nature), that which can initiate a new chain of events - in the phenomenal world, is not - in itself, phenomenal.       <br />	2005-06-30
US	16056234	R3B6SZF4ZHVV36	0872206270	942668769	Beyond Freedom and Dignity (Hackett Classics)	Books	1	45	71	N	N	The control freak's bible!	I have given Skinner's book I star, because it was required to write a review. I consider its ideas dangerous - for the simple reason that it represents a frontal assault upon our ideas of freedom and human dignity.      &#12288;Of course, Skinner doesn't see anything 'sinister' in his ideas. He simply takes it for granted that our notion that we have 'interior selves' and are autonomous (i.e. free agents) - is largely an illusion. In short, Skinner's argument (and it just that, not a statement of fact, as he would have us believe) - is that we are wholly determined in our lives by environmental factors, which is to say - 'conditioned' by forces outside ourselves.      Skinner's argument, then, is that we might as well accept this and make the most of it. Rather than resisting the idea of conditioning, he thinks we should perfect it. In short, if there is nothing more than external conditioning and learned behaviour, then we might as well have social scientists maximising our potential to live with the learned behaviour.      The fallacy of Skinner's argument, is that the notion of human freedom and dignity rests upon scientifically 'unprovable' or 'unverifiable' assertions. When we look, we cannot find a 'ghost in the machine' - and thus, we might as well accept the machine. But it is a facile argument. The fact that we cannot reduce our interior selves to a scientifically quantifiable formula, is the very reason why it remains of vital importance to human life. Its resistence to reductive, strictly empirical formulas, is what makes human nature special. Nobody sensible would deny that childhood experience is highly formative, or that certain genetic determinants are at work, or that empirically speaking, we are conditioned in our external lives. But we have no reason to suppose that these factors are ALL determining.      Needless to say, Skinner's thinking was informed by wholly secular ideas of social and scientific progress - much as if we could get behind everything and 'push.' Paradoxically, Skinner never gave that much thought to who controls the controllers! Skinner wasn't thinking of anything like Soviet style dialectical materialism - but, if we wanted a graphic example of how things go painfully wrong by regimenting human nature and trying to educate people out of the idea that they have 'interior selves' - well, the failures of the Soviet Union (or Communist China) tell us all we need to know.      I don't say this with any illusions that captalism and 'free markets' per se, are intrinsically more respectful of human freedom and dignity. Those values hinge upon something deeper, and without that, there is little to prevent a 'market oriented' society drifting into social controls and abuses of human nature, no less than those which drove the Soviet system.         Ironically, some reviewers have adduced Buddhist teachings(i.e. the doctrine of anatman = no-self) as further confirmation of Skinner's ideas. But Buddhism only denies that there is a permanent self in the skandhas or aggregates - a materialistic self. In fact, the Buddha taught people to take refuge in the 'self' and the Dharma as an inner lamp. Buddhists do have 'interior' lives. Moreover, the Buddha accorded 'dignity' to human nature, or manusya- as the 'most noble of two footed beings.'      It is not anyone else's business to define what we are - in any final or absolute sense. Those who would endeavour to do so are of the same mind as those who would patent the human genome,and plan on engineering an improved version of the human race in their laboratories. The chances are that those who would play 'God' will end up doing the devil (or Mara's) work. As the Rolling Stones song said: - \\"Hey - you! Get offa maa cloud! \\"	2005-06-30
US	16056234	R21P022CG0CFOD	159030232X	988981707	The Blue Cliff Record	Books	5	67	69	N	N	Still the only complete translation	Cleary's version of the Blue Cliff Record (Chin. Pi Yen Lu. J. Hekiganroku)is the only translation giving the whole text, so it was surprising to find no review for it in the Amazon.com files. But then, the Blue Cliff Record' - undoubtedly the most sophisticated collection of Zen 'koan' (chin. kung-an) material, could hardly be reviewed in the linear sense at all, as one might approach ordinary literature. Those for whom such texts matter most in the West - viz. Buddhists using such material as part of their training, would hasten to add that minus Zen practice, the Blue Cliff Record is as good as a 'closed book.' Casual readers may find a certain itchy fascination in these pithy Zen sayings, but a true appreciation of them presupposes something akin to Zen practice. At any rate, to discover anything of value in this book, depends on what you bring to it. To take that position is not necessarily Zen 'snobbery.' That was how the authors of the Blue Cliff Record intended it to be 'savoured' - whether by monks or lay-Buddhists.       To peruse the contents of this text is more like picking at an onion, than surveying a flat surface, exploring several layers of meaning. Hence, it is at once simple - and complex, insofar as each of its individual cases (100 in all), with verses, commentaries etc., and meta-commentaries - are convoluted and inter-linked. What eventually became the 'Blue Cliff Record' had began life as Master Hsueh-t'ou's verses and comments. Yuan-wu, an eminent Sung master, eventually added introductory comments, verses and verse comments of his own. It is probably true to say that there is nothing else quite like it - in the rest of the world's literature.      Suzuki presented individual cases as a kind of 'taster.' As a pioneer, Shaw (1961) was daunted by the prospect of translating every layer of the text. Sekida's rendering (1971), presented along with the Mumonkan (Chin. Wu Men Kuan) omitted the final layer of verse/commentary, probably for fear ofoverwhelming the reader. Cleary has given us the complete text, with some fascinating supplementary material besides. This was a monumental achievement, which will probably remain the definitive version of this classic Zen text, for many long years to come.     It seems a vain undertaking, to try and summarise the Blue Cliff Record - in a book review. If you feel an affinity with the world of Zen - well, get a copy, let its paradoxical sayings, twists and turns penetrate your own being, and it will speak to you in its own, inimitable language. As Cleary notes, Hakuin Zenji stated that he still gained fresh insights from the Blue Cliff Record, even after lecturing on it for over thirty years.      Cleary provides a good introduction, touching on the background to the Ch'an/Zen tradition generally. Modestly (and thank goodness!), Cleary has not imposed himself upon the text proper. What you read is more or less what you find in the Chinese text, with the exception of minimalist notes,delicately added to explicate key terms, idioms etc, or clarify historical references, hinted at in the Chinese text. An interesting biographical section has been appended to the text, detailing the lives of eminent Ch'an/Zen Buddhists, whose words or sayings appear in the Blue Cliff Record.      A final word. Some readers may find it helpful to read this book alongside Sekida's 'Zen Training:Methods and Philosophy' or Miura/Fuller-Sasaki 'The Zen Koan' - which outline something of the practice associated with this material. I might add that Cleary's translation of highly relevant commentary-material,    - titled 'Secrets of the Blue Cliff Record' - comprising comments by Hakuin Zenji (1685-1768) and Tenkei Denson (1653-1726) is currently being offered at discount through Amazon. Tenkei Denson was a member of the Soto school, so it is fascinating to see how a Soto master approaches the B.C.R. Hakuin is known well enough today, but some of his descendants seem only too willing to attribute arbitrary study programmes to the Tokugawa master, which merely mislead Zen students and snare them in literary pretensions. Cleary's supplementary material - noted above, should clear away much of the confusion on this point. Taizan Maezumi Roshi has said of Cleary's work: \\" I firmly believe this translation is a milestone and will immensely benefit those who are sincerely engaged in the practice and the enlightenment of the Buddha way. \\"	2005-06-28
US	16056234	R35JLOOSA3INRF	1570622744	829459848	Living a Good Life: Advice on Virtue, Love, and Action from the Ancient Greek Masters	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Delightful!	Hooray! There is justice in the fact that a translator who has given us many fine translations of Far-eastern wisdom, has turned his attention to the wisdom of the ancient west!  <br /> <br /> This delightful book, full of wise and frequently ironic sayings drawn from classical sources, repays careful reading. Happily, if you were put off Greek classics by the rather boring approach adopted in modern-day college studies, this book will blow all such aridity away! It bridges the gap between between east and west and makes us conscious of the fact that - in antiquity, at least, there was much common ground between the wise men of the orient and occident. Though this text gives you the sayings of Pythagoras, Socrates, Plato, Aristotle, Diogenes etc. it was an inspired choice to select Greek material which had been preserved in Arabic sources. We often forget that the Arab universities in Spain provided Western Europe with its first complete sources of Plato, Aristotle etc. It also shows that - historically, the Islamic world has had open, intercultural dimensions, something not that easy to grasp in view of the contemporary focus on 'fundamentalism' and a perceived 'otherness' dividing cultures.  <br /> <br /> An appendix contains Greek aphorisms showing a close over-lap between eastern and western culture, if not direct borrowings.  <br />All in all, this is an excellent source for our day and age.  <br />Too many terms identified with Western philosophy have been corrupted by inadequate translation. The cover of this book, for instance, refers to the 'good life,' 'virtue,' and 'action' etc. But the 'good life' - 'eudaemonia' in Greek, means being guided by a 'wise guardian spirit' in regard to life as a whole. It also means 'blessedness.' Not quite the same thing as utilitarian economics, the illusion that wealth or the love of money is a good in itself - as many sayings in this book will confirm. 'Virtue' suggests something rather subjective, but in Greek, 'arete'means the pursuit of excellence, actualising the full range of human (and spiritual)powers. Cleary doesn't get that academic with these terms, so forgive the reviewer for taking that liberty!  <br /> <br /> The point is, we think we know what those terms mean - seeing them through the lense of indequate translation and long engrained misinterpretation.It might even be that Heidegger fell foul of this himself, given the fact that he shared Nietzsche's disdain for Platonism. Don't swallow, uncritically, the jaundiced view of the Greeks and their legacy, being touted today. Read Cleary's contribution, and you will appreciate the wisdom of your ancestors. East or west, the philosophy of antiquity has something valuable to teach us.	2005-06-28
US	16056234	R2AFB62NZ79EF2	0834801302	663238852	Two Zen Classics: Mumonkan and Hekiganroku	Books	4	6	6	N	N	A useful text	All in all, this is a handy text - two 'Zen classics' under one cover.@So far as translation goes, the collaborators (Sekida and Grimstone) have made a fair job of this task. It is well worth reading in conjuction with Sekida's companion work -'Zen Training:Methods and Philosophy.'  <br /> <br /> As a lay-Buddhist himself, Sekida-sensei knew well the sort of problems that layfolk encounter and therefore avoided writing about Zen practice as if it were the prerogative of Zen monks, throwing in little pointers and hints which would help explicate Zen practice for layfolk. In that sense, Sekida's work will remain useful for years to come. <br /> <br /> In other respects, it must be noted that since this book was published (1977), Thomas Cleary has presented us with what is by far the most complete version of the Hekiganroku or 'Blue Cliff Record.' You might as well know what's been missing.  <br /> <br />  In the introductory chapter to Sekida's text, A.V. Grimstone, Sekida's collaborator, described Shaw's version of the Hekiganroku (1961) as the only other 'complete' translation to date - but, it was not - it had omitted material, mainly Yuan-Wu's.@Regrettably, Sekida also omitted portions of Yuan-wu's (Engo's) material, noting, ironically, that popular Japanese versions of the Hekiganroku often do the same. Grimstone described these missing portions as 'commentaries and notes' - as if that might be taken in the customary sense, and such material comfortably dropped. But, this material did not comprise 'commentaries and notes' in the conventional sense. It was an intrinsic part of the Hekiganroku. The whole Hekiganroku is collection of comments, verses, counter-verses and counter-comments.@What Grimstone had been referring to, actually constituted a kind of capping material, intrinsically related to the rest of the Hekiganroku.  <br /> <br /> <br /> To put it bluntly, this was messing around.@The Hekiganroku is basically a composite text - Hsueh-t'ou's (Settcho's) hundred verses and verse comments, with Yuan-wu's (Engo's) introductory pointers, verse comments etc. and capping remarks. Of course, Hsueh-t'ou's verse/comments can be considered independently; they were read that way - before the addition of Yuan-wu's material - and are still read that way today, if people so wish. But to present Hseuh-t'ou's verses/verse comments, with fragmentary portions of Yuan-wu's material, was neither one thing nor the other.    <br /> <br />      <br /> <br />	2005-06-28
US	16056234	ROTUB73HTHUUY	1573228761	576816448	Verses from the Center: A Buddhist Vision of the Sublime	Books	3	21	26	N	N	Interesting but problematic	A relaxed distillation of Nagarjuna's teaching, fleshed out with various reflections from the author's experience and intuitions gleaned from personal reading habits, this book has proven satisfying to people who might otherwise baulk at taking Nagarjuna 'straight.' Whether it constitutes a 'translation' of Nagarjuna's karikas - is open to question. For the Buddhist background, I recommend Murti's 'The Central Philosophy of Buddhism.'      True, not everyone wants to read Nagarjuna with a close eye on all the interpretive questions that might be raised about the place this text occupies in Buddhism. Nevertheless, the wish to present the Madhyamaka - shorn of its traditional trappings, Buddhist-scholastic exegeses etc. - means that we are left wholly dependant upon the 'Batcheloresque' exegesis.       Other reviewers have pointed out some of the textual issues involved here - viz. Stephen's reading of the karikas. We might add that - contrary to what some of Stephen's observations suggest, Nagarjuna saw the Madhyamika as 'marga' centered - i.e. that it presupposed the Buddhist path. Even though it forsakes all dualism (advayavada) and allied thought constructs (drsti), Nagarjuna made it clear that this was in the interest of a religious ideal - viz. realization of the unconditioned (absolute), as against nihilism, scepticism or agnosticism etc. The Buddha said: 'two things only do I teach, suffering and its cessation.' The first - suffering (duhkha) is a corollary of impermanence (antiya) and 'dependent origination (pratitya-samutpada). Hence, Stephen's reference to the fact that we are (relatively) 'contingent beings.' But this is only half the picture. Buddhism is not just a philosophy of 'shifting sand' and the Madhyamika does not stop there.In theory, at least, that much is implied in the title of this book ('verses from the centre'). By teaching us to recognise the 'emptiness' of that which arises and passes away, it enables us to realize that which does not arise and pass away - hence the cessation of suffering and the path (nirodhapratipat/marga).      What troubles me about Stephen's account, is that he seems to stop with the sense of impermanence (anitya), yet when Nagarjuna declares that 'samsara is nirvana,' that is tantamount to saying that what appears contigent is simply that - apparent, not ultimately real. Hence, it is not a simple philosophy of 'contingent being/s.' That may well be said from the standpoint of conventional knowledge (samvrtti), but it is not true seen paramartha-satya - viz. through prajna insight, co-terminous with the path (marga). It strikes me that Stephen has fudged this issue. The Buddha and Nagarjuna are not Heraclitus, and Buddhism is not a simple statement that that 'everything flows,' let alone a recommendation to get dragged along with the current! Without clearer reference to praxis, making Buddhism into a philosophy of 'letting go' is a dangerous generalisation. The Buddha compared the Dharma to a raft, which can be abandoned only upon reaching the other shore. He who abandons it in mid-stream or even before leaving the banks of samvrtti-land, will never reach the other shore!        Most Buddhists endeavour to make sense of Nagarjuna's Madhyamika - through practices such as samatta-vipasyana and cognate disciplines. There is nothing adventitious about it. No marga or path - then, no 'Madhyamika' or 'middle way.' It is nice to invoke the intuitions of poets like Keats etc., but what real evidence is there, to suggest that Keat's had found 'the middle way'? In letters and literature, Keat's is always remembered as a poet dying of consumption, pining for Fanny Brawn.      A final point. However tempting it may be to present Nagarjuna's ideas as a kind of 'free floating philosophy,' minus Buddhist doctrine, the truth of the matter is that 'pure' Madhyamika is something of a fiction. In India, Tibet, China and Japan, it was combined with elements of the Vijnanavada/Yogacara, without which it was difficult to resolve many of the issues raised by the Madhyamika, such as how the illusion of nescience arises? Why the unconditioned appears 'conditioned' etc? For that, the Buddhists have had to rely on the teaching of the Alaya-vijnana etc.	2005-06-27
US	16056234	R7TTXW3KHRKT2	1573222763	435156653	Living with the Devil: A Meditation on Good and Evil	Books	4	26	31	N	N	Who painted the devil on the world's wall?	Neitzsche asks - \\"Who painted the devil on the world's wall? \\" and echoing the ancients, Robert Graves asks: \\"Who cleft the devils foot? \\" Reading this book might make you re-think these questions for real.  <br /> <br /> In the West, the Christian legacy has left us uneasy about the 'dark, instinctive' side of ourselves. Stephen's book has the merit of making us see that we have something to learn from the 'dark side' of ourselves. As numerous psychologists' couches would tell us, if they could speak, we pay a heavy price for failing to listen, splitting ourselves in the process.  <br /> <br /> This book has interesting things to say about this process of learning. In Chinese terms, its yin and yang, and we might view the dark side of ourselves as the fruitful bathos or dark ground required for shoots of light to grow. Most of Stephen's observations concern what might be called the inevitable dialogue between the dark and light side of ourselves, in which the dark side doesn't preponderate, but merely hinders. For Stepnhen, it is all tied up with clinging, blocking the flow, damming the stream of life. <br /> <br /> However, as with so much literature of this type, which falls into the 'self-help' category, questions concerning 'evil' on a macrocosmic scale are hardly addressed at all. One might ask what bearing these observations have on something like the rise of Nazism and the appearance of death camps? Such issues touch on the problem of collective unconsciousness and the collective shadow. Seen from that perspective, a philosophy of 'letting go' and 'letting things happen' would seem to be double-edged. In one sense, the dangers of the modern world stem from a lack of reflection or reflective awareness, rather than an excess of it. Some things need to be 'resisted' - either in our immediate, personal lives, as well as our collective lives at large. Still, at least, if we are in touch with the 'devil'  or 'mara' in ourselves, we are that less likely to locate the devil elsewhere, or in someone else.	2005-06-27
US	16056234	R3CC5KVPWKIGR7	0713725729	969473475	The Druid Source Book: From Earliest Times to the Present Day	Books	5	4	4	N	N	An informative study	Much work has gone into this study and it deserves to be read. Some reviewers have faulted this book because it draws on 'dated' sources - but, the author explains why he has chosen those sources. They may be 'dated' but that could be seen as a virtue, rather than a drawback. Quite rightly, one reviewer has noted that - traditionally, the key elements of Druidic teaching have been transmitted orally. Thus, whatever may be found in written sources, needs to be fleshed out with reference to the oral tradition. The sources Matthews has drawn on were put together by people able to assess that side of the tradition, far more accurately than than we are today. Druidic Studies suffer from a twofold bane - the speculations of Neo-Druids - who, for want of an informed background, have almost been forced to re-invent the tradition, introducing arbitrary notions of their own. Then we have the sceptical voice of modern scholarship (e.g. Stuart Piggot, who devotes his time and energy to de-bunking Druidism). For the most part, the material Matthews has put together avoids these extremes.Hence the interest of this book.	2005-06-23
US	16056234	R2WBN09AFB2QV2	0195150686	856837302	The Zen Canon: Understanding the Classic Texts	Books	5	24	28	N	N	An interesting source	Like its companion volume 'The Koan: Texts and Contexts' (eds.Heine, Wright), this book was not intended as a guide to Zen practice, but it should prove interesting to those who feel an affinity with Zen and wish to know more about its background.       It may seem a contradiction in terms that a spiritual tradition allegedly 'not depending upon words and letters' should yet lay claim to a collection of texts holding 'canonical' status. The contributors understand the irony involved. As the cover-blurb' states:          \\"during times of political turmoil in China and Japan,       these texts were crucial to the survival and success        of Zen, and they have for centuries been valued by       practioners as vital expressions of the truth of Zen.        This volume offers learned yet accessible studies of        some of the most important classical Zen texts,        including some that have received little scholarly       attention (and many of which are accessible only to       specialists).Each essay provides historical, literary        and philosophical commentary on a particular text or        genre. Together, they offer a critique of the 'de        facto canon' that has been created by the limited        approach of Western scholarship, and demonstrate        that literature is a diverse and essential part of        Zen Buddhism. \\"      Self-effacing remarks from the academic world - perhaps, but they also constitute a kind of sideways swipe at Zen Buddhists -reluctant to acknowledge the role that language and literature per has played in shaping their tradition. A list of chapter headings give an idea of the material at hand:    (Introduction by the eds. Heine, Wright)    1.Tsung-mi's Zen Prolegomenon. Introduction to an Exemplary      Zen Canon. - Jeff Broughton.     2.  Mazu Yu-lu and the Creation of the Chan Records of Sayings.      - Mario Poceski.     3. The Lidai fabao ji (Record of the Dharma Jewel Through the       Ages. - Wendi Adamek    4. The Huang-po Literature. - Dale S. Wright.    5.  Lineage and Context in the Patriarch's Hall Collection and      the Transmission of the Lamp. - Albert Welter.     6. The Record of Hongzhi and the Recorded Sayings Literature       of Sung Dynasty Chan. - Morten Schlutter.     7. The Wu Men Kuan (J.Mumonkan): The Formation, Propagation      and Characteristics of a Classic Zen text. - Isshi Shudo.     8.  The Eihei Koruku: The Record of Dogen's Later Period at      Eihei-ji Temple. - Steven Heine.     9. Chanyuan Qinggui and Other 'Rules of Purity' in Chinese      Buddhism. - T. Griffith Foulk.      Fittingly, this study opens with Broughton's essay dealing with Tsung-mi. (The use of 'prolegomenon' in the title seems heavy, but as Broughton notes, with 25,000 Chinese characters, Tsung-mi's text hardly constitutes a 'preface'). As a contemporary with the emerging Ch'an schools in T'ang China, Tsung-mi was in a privileged position to assess their characteristics. Though a member of mainstream Chan (through the Ho-tse/Shen-hui line), Tsung-mi was also a Hua-yen master with a solid grounding in the Teaching school/scriptures. As such, he was critical of the extreme edge of the emerging Ch'an/Zen tradition, namely, the 'Hung-chou' school shaped by Ma-tsu Tao-yi and his followers, who had allegedly pushed anti-scripturalism and iconoclastic behaviour to extremes. Though Broughton looks at Tsung-mi's perception of all the proto-typical Ch'an sources, Tsung-mi's remarks about the Hung-chou school are likely to attract the most attention, for this school shaped much that we find in Rinzai(Lin-chi) Zen today.     So far as the reviewer is concerned, the 'jury is still out' on the question of Ma-tsu's alleged extremism. Some adherents of the Hung-chou school may have advocated the extremes noted - but, uncomfortably, Tsung-mi more or less paraphrased Ma-tsu's remarks, in his critique. In this respect, Broughton notes the concern of Pei-hsiu, a chancellor and eminent lay-Buddhist who enjoyed close ties with Huang-po Hsi-yun, a successor of the Hung-chou school. It is apparent that Pei-hsiu entered into correpondence with Tsung-mi over this matter. I draw attention to this topic, because it helps to explain why Ch'an Buddhists felt the need to define (or redefine) their orthodoxy - in written sources. Being charged with heterodoxy would have meant a loss of patronage.       Mario Poceski's essay looks at the formation of texts like Ma-tsu yu lu (Mazu yulu in pinyin) and the 'Yu-lu' (Recorded sayings) genre in general. Comparing variants of text material dealing with Ma-tsu, he shows how it has been tightened up and added to in various ways, by different editors. This does not necessarily invalidate texts (though some would aver that it does), but it does show how texts have been used to exemplify certain teaching characteristics.      Given Broughton's lead essay - touching on the controversy over Ma-tsu and the Hung-chou school, one wonders why Poceski didn't focus on the characteristic idioms and phrases that Tsung-mi had singled out for blame. Collating these and exploring them alongside more accommodating language, would have yielded a better perspective on Ma-tsu's legacy. That texts can be added to - is not, in itself, of intrinsic interest. It is what they say - that counts.     While interesting, it would have been better if Wendi Adamek's essay dealing with the 'Lidai Fabao ji' (Record of the Dharma Jewel through the ages')had been placed elsewhere in the book, for the following essay, dealing with the 'Huang-po literature' had direct bearing on the issues raised in the previous chapters. Wright's essay is probably the single, most important contribution to this joint study of Ch'an/Zen literature. As he observes, the Huang-po material is valuable because (unlike some other texts)- it is \\"precisely dateable, providing a crucial historical marker in the Zen tradition\\" and constitutes a bridge between the legacy of Ma-tsu - and Lin-chi (Rinzai). Wright notes the great care and attention Pei-hsiu brought to the task of organising a definitive written account of his master's teaching. He also notes Pei-hsiu's initial reluctance to undertake anything of the sort - for fear of creating a distorted or inadequate account of Huang-po's teaching. But after the master's passing, Pei-hsiu rose to the occasion, conferring with Huang-po's immediate successors to this end.     While isolated passages found in the Huang-po material could be seen or misconstrued as instances of the iconoclastic/anti-scripturalist position often identified with the Hung-chou school, Wright notes plentiful passages where Huang-po's 'orthodoxy' vis-a-vis the Teaching school, seems more certain.      Albert Welter's essay is basically an analysis of the role played by the two earliest 'Ch'an histories' - the Tsu Tang Chi (Records of the Ancestors Hall) and the Chuan Teng Lu (Records of the Transmission of the Lamp).' The former had been lost for centuries, until its re-discovery in Korea, in the 1930's. Like the texts discovered at Tun Huang, scholars were curious to see whether the Tsu Tang Chi - presumably free from editorial tamperings found in the extant sources, would throw fresh light on the origins of the tradition. Welter suggests that these texts reflect the interests of different Ch'an factions. For their own part, the editors of the Tsu Tang Chi acknowledged that their sources were incomplete. About 256 monks are listed in the Tsu-tang Chi, against 1,700 in the Chuan Teng Lu. As such, it seems perverse to compare them. Still, judged against the Chuan Teng Lu, the Tsu Tang Chi yields nothing radically different about the origins of the well known Ch'an lineages. There are minor discrepancies - in listings of Dharma successors in certain transmission lines (Welter provides careful analyses of such things) but, these were merely the anomaly of the situation, reflecting the material available to the compilers at the time, much ofit stemming from their own transmission (Ts'ao-tung)line. Still, as Welter concedes, they honoured and recognised Ma-tsu etc.      Like the Tsu Tang Chi, the Chuang Teng Lu documents the earlier, formative stage, of the two main Ch'an schools in the Nan-yeuh and Ching-yuan lines. It shows masters such as Ma-tsu and Shih-t'ou sending their followers back and forth between one another's temples. As these lines flourished, they blossomed into the 'Five Ch'an schools' (wu-chia) - all of which are given attention in the Chuan Teng Lu. It includes a few T'ien-t'ai masters, besides. As such, one might question the extent to which the Chuan Teng Lu reflects 'factional' interests. That said, it was astute of Welter to point out that Tao-yuan and Yang-i - both responsible for editing the Chuan Teng Lu, in one way or another, had  different perspectives on the material. Tao-yuan's title had been 'Fo-tzu tung-tsan chi' - 'Collection of the Common Practice of the Buddhas and Patriarchs' - stressing complementarity between the Teaching School (the myriad practices/wan-hsing)and the Chan transmission, as against Yang-i's title, exalting the Ch'an school as the 'chiao wai pieh hsing' or 'special practice outside the teaching (school).' Editors have certainly left their mark on these texts.     Morten Schlutter's essay documents the background to the formation of Hongzhi's Recorded Sayings. Once lost in China, it is gratifying to note the renewed interest in this fascinating material, characteristic of Ts-ao-tung (J. Soto) Chan in the Sung. In fact, Schlutter's essay is virtually a compact survey of all the important components in Hongzhi's collected writings. It is of note that this material includes Zen verses and comments in the mould of kung-an (J. koan) literature, which should alert us to the folly of trying to define Zen schools on the basis of their allegience to, or rejection of - the kung-an.      With the kung-an/koan in mind, Isshi Shudo's essay, exploring the background to the formation of the Wu Men Kuan (J. Mumonkan) has some interesting points to make. Hitherto, relatively little has been said about Shinichi Kakushin, the Japanese monk responsible for introducing the Mumonkan to Japan. He had studied under Master Wu-men personally, in China, and thus acquired the text from its parent source. Contrary to what might be supposed, Isshi notes that Keizan Jokin - the Soto-based founder of Soji-ji, studied with (the Rinzai based) Shinichi Kakushin. In this sense, Isshi's entry tempers the tendency to see factional interests as the uppermost concern of such texts. As with Isshi's entry in the companion volume to this text (Zen Koan:Texts and Contexts), the remarks here are somewhat dry, but they give good account of the background to the Wu Men Kuan and the particular success it has enjoyed in Japan.        Heine's essay on Dogen's Eihei koruku - outlining his later career at the Eihei-ji, will interest many. There are some inspiring verses and lines here - all very characteristic of Dogen, and well worth reading/reflection. In other respects, this material is technical in the usual Heine fashion, with a chronological breakdown of the component parts of this latter-day Dogen creation.  While restrained, there is a definite sense here that we are dealing with Soto hagiography. This seems fair enough with the material at hand - but, if history matters, I can't help wondering about the shroud of silence placed over the dogmatic elements that crept into Dogen's thinking in his final years. Not all a case of 'bamboo under and bright moon' etc.       The final chapter of this book by T. Griffith Foulk outlines the variants of 'pure rule' books Ching-kui (J. Shingi) or monastic regulations, devised for Chan monks in China, subsequently introduced to Japan. By and large, these rules still regulate life in the Zen temples and those who take up life as'unsui' (trainee monks) will have to live with such rules - regulating  every aspect of monastic life, including the appropriate manner of eating, going to the toilet etc. It is of note that entering the abbot's/masters room (ju-shi) for instruction - i.e. dokusan/ sanzen was a recommended part of the schedule, but left to the discretion of individual monks.      Griffith-Foulk asserts that - despite the received interpretation, these regulations are not 'Pai Chang's pure rules' as commonly held, but derive from the Vinaya - like most other Chinese Buddhist schools. I think this needed better focus, for the Ch'an/Zen temple regulations associated with Pai-chang enabled monks to work, whereas in most cases, the regulations binding upon other schools, did not. According to Chinese historians, this enabled the Ch'an tradition to survive bouts of persecution which fairly crippled other Buddhist institutions, largely dependent upon donations. Though we think of the T'ang as the golden age' of Chinese Buddhism, it also suffered reversals, and saw persecution on a large scale. Griffith -Foulk notes the research of a Chinese Nun - Mi fa, who continues to regard Pai-chang's 'pure rules' as a genuine influence, even though Pai-chang's material per se, is no longer extent.      Little is said here about how such rules have survived the text of time. Van de Wetering's 'Empty Mirror' shows that these rules can sometimes be very relaxed in Japanese temples.   Conversely, the Myoshinji is so strict, it is rumoured that it has occasionally raised concern about attracting new blood.    Griffith-Foulk notes some of the historical precedents, rules drawn up for the Buddhist life in India. The restriction on eating after mid-day seems ridiculous in countries with long winters, temples without heating. Some provision has been made to get round this, by defining snacks as 'medicine.'      Griffith-Foulk says little about the arbitrary modifications these rules have occasionally been subjected to. Chinese Ch'an temples were provided with a reading room/library, with light wells set in the roof. In Japanese Rinzai temples, however, this was ruled out for an indeterminate period. When Ingen Zenji (Mampukuji Obakuzan) first came to Japan in the Tokugawa, he was surprised to find that none of the Rinzai monks he met had read the Rinzai Roku. Partly through Ingen's influence, Rinzai temples once more allowed junior monks to read, but to this day, some Rinzai temples still restrict access to libraries, reserving it as a privilege for senior monks. In the Meiji, other arbitrary rules supervened, set by the government. These effectively prohibited Zen monks from studying under masters of different lineages, whereas in Hakuin's lifetime, they were free to do that.       Even the axiom -'a day without work, is a day without food' is no longer strictly true, if taken in its original sense, indicating work out in the fields. This has nothing to do with negligence on the part of the monks. It is a corollary of what happens when you form large instututions. It may mean doing chores around the temple precincts, but the self-sufficiency advocated of old, is not that much in evidence.  There may be exceptions to this - especially in the 'Rinka' temples. But the Zen 'work ethic' began to disappear in the temples of Sung China, which even employed hired labour, to do the work.	2005-06-11
US	16056234	R2LN70JFEPN7JR	1852300310	287636259	Empty Cloud: The Autobiography of the Chinese Zen Master Xu Yun	Books	5	23	25	N	N	Biography of an exemplary Buddhist	In the course of a long-life, spanning almost 120 years, Xu-yun (1840-1959)had become something of a living legend. By the time of his passing in 1959, Xu-yun was the most renowned Zen Buddhist in China. Hence this biography makes fascinating reading. It details the struggles - as well as the rewards, of a life dedicated to the Dharma. Philip Kapleau Roshi used to read portions of this book to his students to inspire them and provide spurs for practice.  <br /> <br /> Born around the time of the Opium Wars - Xu-yun's life spanned some of the most violent upheavals China had ever witnessed -what with being occupied by several foreign powers, the formation of the Republic, then civil war, leaving China under Communist rule. Few of China's modernisers - communist or otherwise, were sympathetic to Buddhism, leaving the fate of the Sangha uncertain. Unlike the days of yore, when official patronage and funding could be counted on, these were hard times. Hence, Xu-yun's endeavours to restore Chinese Buddhism or bring about a revival seem all that more remarkable. Similar challenges had been encountered by the eminent Ming master Han-shan, so Xu-yun came to be known as \\"Han-shan come-again.\\"  <br /> <br /> This book also documents Xu-yun's pilgrimages and travels - for the most part on foot, to neighbouring Buddhist lands - India, Tibet, Burma, Thailand etc. While in Thailand, the King was so impressed by Xu-yun, he became a personal disciple of the master. On a practical note, supplementary material has been added,detailing Xu-yun's instructions on Ch'an/Zen practice, at the Jade Buddha temple, Shanghai. These were highly practical and can be put to use anywhere. Master Xu-yun's inspiring story deserves a place in every Buddhist library.	2005-06-06
US	16056234	RD32N0934535H	0766133559	49866970	Theosophy or Psychological Religion	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A much neglected study	Though sometimes 'cranky' (ironically, Muller played a part in repudiating the work of Nicholas Notovich, linking Jesus with the Indian tradition) - this book, recording some of Muller's 'Gifford Lectures' - might be considered just compensation. The lectures, which repay repeated reading, range over an astonishing amount of religious and philosophical territory. In this respect, Muller was far ahead of his time. While there has certainly been a retreat into narrow orthodoxy - in some areas of society, there is a growing tendency to discard the outer shell of religion, in quest of the vital kernel.  <br /> <br /> Muller spoke of 'Theosophical' or 'Psychological Religion' - and thus, all the many and varied topics which appear in this book, touching on the inner core behind all religious <br />traditions - and religious philosophy. Early Christianity gets consideration, Gnostic ideas, Neo-Platonism, Hinduism etc.  <br />Originally published at the turn of the last century, in the series 'Chips from a German Workshop' (meaning woodchips from a carpenters bench), this title summed up the situation, for here we have the fruits of mind which had whittled away at religious questions, in half a dozen languages, over decades.  <br /> <br /> This isn't a beginner's guide to meditation or a 'how-to' book. If that's what you want - well, look elsewhere. Rather, this is the sort of book which will appeal to people who have already staked out a religious path, but retain a healthy interest in the greater nexus of religious and spiritual ideas which have nourished the human race as a whole. There are some beautiful anecdotes and pithy comments to be found in this book - snippets of Greek, Sanskrit etc., which seem to sum up the quintessential spirit of a whole civilisation.	2005-06-02
US	16056234	R3VPYIXLA52E34	0091406110	618655576	Zen: Dawn in the West	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Digesting the Dharma	Written as a sequel to 'The Three Pillars of Zen,' which has established itself as a classic source of Zen instruction for Caucasian people - in half a dozen languages, this book illustrates something of the 'digestive process' involved, as Westerners endeavour to translate the meaning of Zen into - and out of - their own experience, practicing in a cultural milieu different to that in which Zen developed - in its Asian home. <br /> <br /> The key parts of this book comprises a series of perspectives and summary remarks conveyed by Western practitioners - close to Philip Kapleau, and Kapleau's responses -fleshed out with succinct and frequently witty obervations.  <br /> Inevitably perhaps, what we find in this book differs quite considerably from the atmosphere found in the 'Three Pillars of Zen.' In the latter, people were immersing themselves in Zen practice and to that extent, 'turning back' their minds - away from the play of surface distinctions, in quest of some deep, underlying truth. The present work explores the interface between such Zen-based insight, and the spiritual challenges and practical demands of life in the crucible of contemporary Western experience.  <br /> <br /> As such, the issues raised in this book will touch almost everyone who has endeavoured to make sense of Zen in the context of Western society - with all of its virtues and vices. Inevitably, the need for a socially 'engaged Buddhism' comes to the fore, especially where peace issues and environmental issues are at stake. In this respect, Western Zen is likely to play a role considerably more 'radical than that of its 'conservative' Asian counterpart. Such topics have been given thoughtful consideration in this book, and they will prove stimulating to many Western Buddhists.  <br /> <br /> My only reservations about this book, concerned isolated observations which seemed at odds with the otherwise positive agenda set forth in the rest of the text. Zen should have a role in the workplace. Albert Low has articulated some imaginative and constructive views on this topic (he also wrote the preface to this book). However, in isolated places, such ideas begin to make Zen look like the means to some other end - the servant, rather than the master, in the situation. Such dangers fell into even sharper relief, with a stray comment from some of Kapleau's Japanese friends, hinting that Zen was the 'secret' behind Japan's industrial and commercial success.  <br /> <br /> I'm afraid that this struck the reviewer as a 'sell-out' to big-business and corporate Japan. There are indeed special Za-zen kai and pep-talks in some Japanese companies, but their emphasis is not upon the well being of the workers, but upon maintaining corporate profits. Japanese is the only language in the world with a special term for 'death from over-work' (karoshi), the levels of stress experienced in the Japanese work place, well nigh crucifying. Again, while Japanese culture is noted for its sensitivity to the forces of nature and the play of the seasons, Japan has some of the worst pollution and environmental problems in the developed world. Hence, if 'Zen' is greasing this machine - well, maybe it ought not to be. Brian Victoria (cf. Zen at War) has averred that 'Industrial Zen' is but a variant of 'Imperial way Buddhism' - and no respecter of persons. In this context, Zen is at once sedative, and stimulant, like the double-sided pills handed out by modern doctors.   <br /> <br /> To end on a positive note, the reviewer feels honour bound to point out that - when confronting Kapleau Roshi over such matters, many years ago - Roshi was utterly honest, declaring that he had begun to feel similar misgivings about 'corporate Zen,' both as regards the well-being of individuals - and environmental concerns, suggesting that these ideas might be reworked at a later juncture. Though I have yet to confirm it, I suspect that such matters were restated in 'Zen; the Merging of East and West.'	2005-05-31
US	16056234	R28NUBLKR326BU	0231060416	163401138	The Zen Master Hakuin	Books	5	30	30	N	N	A valuable source of teachings	I'm puzzled why Yampolsky's excellent translation of material from Hakuin (1686-1769) - the eminent reformer of Rinzai Zen in the Tokugawa - hasn't merited a review to date. It provides an excellent selection of material and is well worth looking at:<br /><br />Orategama I, II & III.<br />Supplement to the Oretegema.<br />Orategama Zokusho<br />Appended Material to the above<br />Yabukoji<br />Hebichiigo I & II.<br /><br /> These Japanese titles won't mean a lot - unless you've read extracts. Suffice it to say that Yampolsky has given us the essential Hakuin. Produced as part of a translation programme for Columbia Uni, one might expect the material here to be a trifle dry. However, Yampolsky has approached his task with a good measure of feeling for the genre, without getting bogged down in academic quibbles. What you get, is an accurate and lively translation, capturing well the spirit of Hakuin's teaching - conveyed in his characteristically trenchant style. Hakuin's words will mean the most to those who have determined to practice Zen. But general readers will also enjoy the book. Hakuin was full of interesting anecdotes. Despite the passage of time - and translation into another tongue, something real and vital comes through of Hakuin's teaching, in this book.<br /><br />  Never intrusive, Yampolsky's notes have been devoted to explicating key sources, terms, personages and places - which crop up in Hakuin's remarks. The translation is accompanied by a well informed, readable Introduction, giving insight into the<br />background to Hakuin's career and writings. Yampolsky has provided a useful Appendix, listing Hakuin's main works. An extensive bibliography details cognate Buddhist sources.<br /><br />  Orategama (The Embosssed Tea Kettle), one of Hakuin's most well known works, in fact comprises a series of texts. It began as a letter to Lord Nabeshima, governor of Settsu, dealing with Zen practice in general, matters of health, good governance etc, according to Hakuin's inter-connected view of life-energy. Orategama is partly autobiographical, detailing key experiences, something comparatively rare from Zen masters ('Itsumadegusa,' written toward end of Hakuin's life, represents his autobiography proper). The second part of Orategama comprises a letter of encouragement and advice, sent to a sick monk. It recapitulates Hakuin's experiences, training with Shoju Rojin, and again touches on the healing methods (nanso-no-ho) that Hakuin had used to cure his own ills. Some of this material duplicates that found in the Yasenkanna (not included here).Part 3 of Orategama contains Hakuin's letter to a Nun, explaining the nuance of the Lotus Sutra, very much in Zen terms. Hakuin retained a life-long veneration for this sutra. The final part of Orategama provides counsel for a former disciple, stressing the need to mature and deepen his insight, without hanging on to partial realization.<br /><br /> In Orategama Zokusho - an extensive document, Hakuin gives his account of the relationship between Koan and Nembutsu practice. Contrary to what has often been stated, Hakuin did not condemn the Nembutsu (calling on the Buddha's name). He acknowledged its merits in this letter. What Hakuin did not approve of, was joint-practice of these methods. Yampolsky doesn't say much about the issue, so it is worth pointing out that in post-Kamakura Japan, Nembutsu practice came to be regarded as the way of strict 'tariki' or 'other-power' - giving up all reliance on 'jiriki' or 'self-power' - as found in Zen. For such reasons, Hakuin deemed it unconducive to Zen practice. Other interpretations of nembutsu (e.g. Yung-ming's, or those used at the Mampukuji Obakuzan) would yield fewer difficulties. What concerned Hakuin, was that his followers should attain 'singleness of mind' - and, if they attained it, pursuing any practice single-mindedly, that was enough for him. (He acknowledged Rennyo and Honen's attainments, Shingon masters such as Myohen Sozuetc. - in this vein). The 'Appended' material follows kindred themes.<br /><br /> Hebi-ichigo is a much neglected text - not least, because it was once banned by the authorities. It contains some pretty stiff criticism of the ruling aristocracy and the heavy tax burden falling on Japanese peasant farmers. This is worth noting, in view of the now commonly held notion that the Rinzai tradition has always been ready to comply with the ruling elite. Sent in reply to a letter from a retainer of Ikeda (Iyo-no-kami), Hakuin's response is decked out with courtesies -but, beneath the surface politeness, it constitutes a veritable diatribe. This certainly made Hakuin an 'engaged' Buddhist, and shows his strong, independence of spirit.<br /><br /> I recommend reading Yampolsky's work in conjunction with Norman Waddell's 'Wild Ivy' (Itsumadegusa), a translation of Hakuin's autobiography, plus the extracts from Hakuin's 'Keiso dokuzui' presented by Miura/Sasaki (cf. 'The Zen Koan'). While certainly the chief 'reformer' of Rinzai Zen in his time -and remembered as such today, the valuable thing about reading the sources noted above, is that Hakuin does not come over as someone obsessed with the narrower bounds of sectarian identity. As his writings show, he had digested the teachings of all the great T'ang and Sung masters. Despite modern-day cliches, Hakuin capped his own training system with the 'Go-I' or 'Five Ranks' of the Soto(Chin. Ts'ao-tung) school. For him - they were one of a piece - and complementary. Hakuin had a broad mind, as befits one of the way.ndred themes.         Hebi-ichigo is a much neglected text - not least, because it was once banned by the authorities. It contains some pretty stiff criticism of the ruling aristocracy and the heavy tax burden falling on Japanese peasant farmers. This is worth noting, in view of the now commonly held notion that the Rinzai tradition has always been ready to comply with the ruling elite. Sent in reply to a letter from a retainer of Ikeda (Iyo-no-kami), Hakuin's response is decked out with courtesies -but, beneath the surface politeness, it constitutes a veritable diatribe. This certainly made Hakuin an 'engaged' Buddhist, and shows his strong, independence of spirit.     I recommend reading Yampolsky's work in conjunction with Norman Waddell's 'Wild Ivy' (Itsumadegusa), a translation of Hakuin's autobiography, plus the extracts from Hakuin's 'Keiso dokuzui' presented by Miura/Sasaki (cf. 'The Zen Koan'). While certainly the chief 'reformer' of Rinzai Zen in his time -and remembered as such today, the valuable thing about reading the sources noted above, is that Hakuin does not come over as someone obsessed with the narrower bounds of sectarian identity. As his writings show, he had digested the teachings of all the great T'ang and Sung masters. Despite modern-day cliches, Hakuin capped his own training system with the 'Go-I' or 'Five Ranks' of the Soto(Chin. Ts'ao-tung) school. For him - they were one of a piece - and complementary. Hakuin had a broad mind, as befits one of the way.	2005-05-17
US	16056234	R1NH39EDHCDRIS	1568360304	96095959	Zen in America: Five Teachers and the Search for an American Buddhism	Books	3	7	8	N	N	Five people, in a boundless place	My chief reservation about this book, is that the five key figures featured in it  (Robert Aitken, Bill Kwong, Bernie Glassman, Maurine Stuart and Richard Baker) are just that - five people, who do not necesarily embody other facets of Zen in America, however centrally involved with its development in their own way. Even with revisions, it is now a dated text, and without an account of Philip Kapleau's founding contribution, rather incomplete. (For this, you might want to read Kenneth Kraft's study of Kapleau's legacy: Three Pillars of Zen. Training and Practice).  <br /> <br /> Some heartfelt views are expressed in Tworkov's profiles - but, I felt too much time and energy had been devoted to agonising over the future of Zen in America, as if we could pre-empt the life-situation, and work out what American Zen means, as a kind of abstract entity. I hope this is not unkind, but it did make me wonder what happened to the actualities - of Zen, the un-encapsulated moment of wonder  - the 'always-so' - announcing itself - in way-side weeds, tinkling spoons and clattering dishes, traffic tail lights in misty rain, the reflection of neon in puddles and street windows, sunsets and sun-rises, flowing waters in the ungraspable stream of life, almost motionless breath, seated on a Zafu, spiralling coils of incense smoke, the yellow glow of a candle. . .  <br /> <br /> I know the five individuals concerned have given earnest consideration to the pros and cons of 'right livelihood' etc. But is it such a problem? In some respects, there is a kind of 'fear-of-flying' element to this. While hardly any different in Japan these days, there is a tendency to want to make Zen a means to something else - better management, better this, better that. But it isn't a pep-pill or a quick fix, nor is it a secret weapon to get one over on one's competitors in business. It might be there - to get one over, on yourself, by breaking out of the 'horizontal' hold - trying to make sense of a world which is apparently lived forwards, but seemingly understood backwards. This moment is all you will ever have.  <br />Of the five people profiled here, Robert Aitken struck me as the closest to that liberating perspective. <br />  <br /> Perhaps too much is made of cultural identity-crises. Joshu says: \\"Liken the Tao to a crystal ball: when a native Chinese(Han) comes near  - it reflects him as such; when a foreigner (Hu)come near, it reflects him as such. \\" <br /> <br /> What we have to re-cognise is this 'as-suchness' - and let the reflections look after themselves.	2005-05-16
US	16056234	R27DU869FB47CS	0312207743	265025998	The Empty Mirror: Experiences in a Japanese Zen Monastery	Books	3	11	22	N	N	How to fall off a Zen log	You can't fault Jan-san for his honesty.It may even help some people who over-stretch themselves with warped fantasies about the perfect Zendo. Nevertheless, it isn't  a helpful account. The experiences which seem to endear many readers to this book are common place, the hops over the wall, night life etc. - obtained without reference to Zen. Given the lethargic atmosphere inside the temple, it is hardly surprising than Jan-san sought stimulation - outside it. Jan-san honestly reports a luck-lustre attitude. If you want apathy - well, life is short.<br /><br />This 'mirror' - is empty, empty of all the benefits one might find, practicing Zen in earnest.	2005-05-16
US	16056234	R350O32ASOQQ2V	8121509254	99866101	The Lankavatara Sutra: A Mahayana Text	Books	5	60	60	N	N	A classic	[Amazon.com got the 'blurb' mixed up, declaring the Indian editor (Motilal Pandit) to be the translator - and Suzuki, a mere contributor]. Suzuki's translation of this important Sutra has stood the test of time. It has seen numerous reprints since its first edition in 1932 - and, so far as I know, it hasn't been equalled. It occupies a paradoxical role in the Ch'an/Zen schools because - according to tradition, it was transmitted to China alongside the 'wordless doctrine' - that direct transmission of mind-to-mind, which 'does not rely upon words and letters.' Bodhidharma is said to have advocated this sutra as a means to 'seal' the minds of those who took up the Ch'an/Zen path. Another strand of tradition in China, held that Gunabhadra introduced the 'Lanka' text - and constituted the first Father of Ch'an/Zen. Be that as it may, the title of Master Wu-men's kung-an (koan)collection - 'The Pass with no Gate' (Wu Men K'uan/Mumonkan)has obvious resonance with the message of the Lanka text, declaring that the 'gate of Dharma is no (fixed) gate.'<br /><br /> As Suzuki pointed out, the Lankavatara has a rather loose plot, structurally - \\"thoughts of deep signification, presented in a most unsystematic manner \\" - a collection of intuitions, centering around the Mind - as ground for the appearance of phenomena. In fact, in his separate work 'Studies in the Lankavatara Sutra' - Suzuki averred, somewhat casually, considering that sutras are usually taken to be Buddhavacana ('the word of the Buddha') that - the Lanka is \\"a memorandum kept by a Mahayana master, in which he put down perhaps all the teachings of importance accepted by the Mahayana followers of his day. \\"<br /><br /> This casual observation may worry some scholars - but, it depends on how you understand the nuance of 'Buddhavacana.' For Asian Buddhists, it is not so much dating texts, proving their authorship etc. which determines whether a text constitutes Buddhavacana - but whether it conveys Buddhavacana in the spiritual sense and is conducive to samyak-drsti - the 'right-eye' or view, in practice. After all, the Buddha did not deliver his discourses in Sanskrit (or Pali) and it is probably the case that all the major, Mahayana Sutras, have been reworked by editors. Buddhism is not a 'fundamentalist' religion in the scriptural sense, and cannot be appraised as one.<br /><br /> Everything vital in the Lankavatara centers around the experience of 'paravrtti' - which Suzuki translates as a 'turning around in the seat of consciousness,' an 'upheaval in consciousness' etc. - in Ch'an/Zen terms, that all important wu/satori/chien-hsing/kensho - or 'seeing into' our inherent Mind-nature. Interestingly, Suzuki suggests that this constitutes 'conversion' in the true sense - a complete turn about in consciousness (as against merely shifting from one set of beliefs, thoughts, opinions etc. - to another). In short, the ground changes - or rather, what we hitherto took to be the ground - falls away, exposing what was there all along.<br /><br /> Still, despite its apparent looseness - on the surface, the Lankavatara is a kind of proto-typical source of Vijnanavada doctrine, and thus more 'technical' than we might suppose. In this respect, Suzuki's Introduction is indispensible, because one would otherwise encounter a sprinkling of technical terms and idioms which have no immediate sense or context. Suzuki gave the fuller background in his preliminary work (1930) - 'Studies in the Lankavatara Sutra.' You don't have to read both, but it certainly helps. In fact, despite being cumbersome in size, it would be handy if someone published/reprinted the two texts - in a single volume.<br /><br /> Sometimes accused of being 'unscholarly' with his presentations of Zen texts (I actually liked the absence of bulky foot-notes; it made the key ideas stand out) - Suzuki could be scholarly - when and where it mattered. The Lanka text and its supplementary volume (Studies in the Lankavatara) - were presented in a scholarly way. Suzuki compared different passages/variants of texts (Sanskrit/Tibetan/Chinese), where it mattered, giving account of key terms and idioms. These lively remarks - aid digestion of the text and its meaning, rather than drowning the reader with a welter of aridities.<br /><br /> Several Indian publishers are now reprinting this text (Motilal Barnasidass reprints 'Studies in the Lankavatara). Earlier editions of Suzuki's rendering of 'The Lankavatara Sutra' - the sutra proper, contained fold-out sheets, with variants of key texts (in Sanskrit, Tibetan and Chinese). These have since vanished from some reprints of the sutra proper, re-surfacing in 'Studies of the Lankavatara.' In this respect, I wish the reprints would keep to the original format - or give us both texts in a single volume - but, the Indian reprints are reasonably priced, have good bindings - and, nobody can complain about that.<br /><br />As a final note, if you like the drift of what the Lankavatara says, but feel uneasy about the practical basis of Vijnanavada as meditation, I heartily recommend the Surangama Sutra (Chin. Leng-yen Ching), trans. Charles Luk. The commentary - based in part, on Master Han-shan's notes as he used the text to guide his practice, is very succinct. It illustrates, in clear terms, how one sets about sublimating sense-data into wisdom, thus breaking up the influence of 'alayavijnana' - as hinted at in the Lanka text.ki compared different passages/variants of texts (Sanskrit/Tibetan/Chinese), where it mattered, giving account of key terms and idioms. These lively remarks - aid digestion of the text and its meaning, rather than drowning the reader with a welter of aridities.      Several Indian publishers are now reprinting this text (Motilal Barnasidass reprints 'Studies in the Lankavatara). Earlier editions of Suzuki's rendering of 'The Lankavatara Sutra' - the sutra proper, contained fold-out sheets, with variants of key texts (in Sanskrit, Tibetan and Chinese). These have since vanished from some reprints of the sutra proper, re-surfacing in 'Studies of the Lankavatara.' In this respect, I wish the reprints would keep to the original format - or give us both texts in a single volume - but, the Indian reprints are reasonably priced, have good bindings - and, nobody can complain about that.     As a final note, if you like the drift of what the Lankavatara says, but feel uneasy about the practical basis of Vijnanavada as meditation, I heartily recommend the Surangama Sutra (Chin. Leng-yen Ching), trans. Charles Luk. The commentary - based in part, on Master Han-shan's notes as he used the text to guide his practice, is very succinct. It illustrates, in clear terms, how one sets about sublimating sense-data into wisdom, thus breaking up the influence of 'alayavijnana' - as hinted at in the Lanka text.	2005-05-16
US	16056234	RTUAXN7I6Q5KI	0895819392	2633235	Asvaghosha's Discourse on the Awakening of Faith in the Mahayana (English, Chinese and Sanskrit Edition)	Books	5	14	16	N	N	A seminal Buddhist text	Given the fresh controversy surrounding texts of this type  - viz. the 'Critical' Buddhist fraternity, who regard Asvagosha's shastra as an archetypal source of all the 'bad,' 'un-Buddhist' ideas and distortions which have polluted their 'pure' version of the Dharma - it is worth taking a fresh look at the material. Suzuki's translation - dating back to 1900, still conveys a good account of Asvagosha's teaching. True enough, this shastra, venerated for centuries, contains plentiful references to the idioms so disliked by the 'Critical' Buddhists (viz. svabhava, dharmata, dhatu, alaya-vijnana etc.) - deemed harmful, one and all, because they appear to involve a dubious 'substantialism,' likely to lend themselves to dangerous constructs, agendas etc.(about 29 references to Asvagosha's text appear in 'Pruning the Bodhi Tree' - tied to the negative inferences of the 'Critical' Buddhist fraternity). However, the way this is handled seems little better than 'philological train-spotting' - looking for trains, with out seeing where they originate and terminate. I defy anyone to read Asvagosha's words about 'sraddha' or faith in the Mahayana, with its clear injunctions against 'killing, stealing, lying' etc. - and its allied notion of the bodhisatva vow or 'pranidhana' - transferring merit to all other living beings, as a possible vehicle for war. It is a nonsense.      I quite agree with Peter Gregory's veridict (cf. Pruning the Bodhi Tree) that despite their Asian background, 'Critical' Buddhists such as Hakamaya and Matsumoto sound much like 19thc Western theologians, their assumed rationality, a restatement of the 'white man's burden' approach to World Culture.      Quite apart from issues of concern to the 'Critical' Buddhist fraternity - viz. terminology, doubts have also been cast on the very origins of this material - nominally an Indian text, translated into Chinese by Indian Buddhists (e.g. Paramartha , Siksananda). Similar doubts have been raised about the Surangama Sutra, The Sutra of Complete Enlightenment (Yuan Chueh Ching), The Mahaparinirvana Sutra, even portions of the Saddharma Pundarika or Lotus Sutra. Again, certain texts in the 'Pure Land' corpus were also threatened with the chainsaw - but then, the Sanskrit originals turned up again and all was forgiven. So, before we engage in yet more chainsaw massacres, would it not be wise to re-evaluate what texts say, and mean -in practical terms?      Reading Suzuki's translation and explication of key idioms in the text - as against selective 'snippets' invokes a different picture. While by no means unique in Mahayana sources, I found it rather moving the way 'sraddha' or 'faith' emerges in Asvagosha's teaching, synonymus with a universal vow to strive toward enlightenment for the sake of all living beings. It strikes me that Asvagosha's teaching resonates well with what the Lankavatara Sutra says about 'paravrtti' or a 'turning about' in the seat of consciousness, explaining the distinct difference between a world perceived through the influence of manas, jneyavarana, klesa -or perceived in its total condition as the Dharmakaya. Perhaps - minus 'sraddha' (faith), the very thing stressed in the title of this work, none of it will make sense, leaving us liable to form all sorts of spurious conclusions. As the old Buddhist proverb has it \\"without the hand of faith, you cannot take hold the mani-gem\\" - or pearl of wisdom. Regardless of contemporary trends, 'The Awakening of Faith' by Asvagosha remains a vital and inspiring source for Buddhists.                I suggest reading Suzuki's version alongside Hakeda's text. Suzuki gives you Siksananda's version, Hakeda gives you Paramartha's.	2005-05-15
US	16056234	R3UOV0CK6P7GW8	0313202648	25626805	The Practice of Zen	Books	5	10	10	N	N	A breath of fresh air!	Garma Chang's engaging book conveys a clear idea of what Ch'an/Zen practice actually involves - illustrated by succinct readings from classic Ch'an/Zen texts, spanning centuries. These are not just more 'Zen stories' - presented without rhyme of reason. You get a good spread of teachings, backed up by fascinating observations about certain key terms/idioms,and there isn't a wasted word, from cover-to-cover. While respectful of the Ch'an/Zen axiom - \\"not to speak too plainly\\" (pu shuo pu), Chang's remarks place the practice in its proper context of Mahayana Buddhism. So far possible, Chang takes you 'inside' the minds of the teachers and practicers quoted in this book. This book offers some refreshing 'angles' on Zen practice, which reflect Chang's own experience in mainland Chinese temples and a familiarity with key Ch'an/Zen sources. Chang had an excellent command of English (not always the case with Asian Buddhist teachers/translators), and was thus well placed to present the material in this text. Following the Communist takeover of China, Chang took up American citizenship and eventually became a Professor at Penn State Uni, drawing on his valuable experience with traditional Buddhist teachings.      Alas, this excellent book has had a relatively low profile since its publication in 1959, and well deserves reprinting. It was perhaps, ahead of its time, hitting the market before Westerners wanted to practice Ch'an/Zen with any seriousness, or in sufficient numbers, to give it the profile it deserved. The subsequent boom in interest - fostered by the fruits of post-war contact with Japan, brought focus upon the Japanese Zen schools. Still, it is worth noting that - D.T. Suzuki, one of the most seminal figures behind this expansion of interest - based his most successful writings upon the records of Chinese masters of the Tang. I'm not suggesting, for a minute, that we  should ignore the good things brought our way by dint of contact with the Japanese Zen schools- but,in some respects, we have become mired in institutional postures which matter far less than we might suppose. Indeed, Philip Kalpeau's Japanese Zen teachers had 'mixed' backgrounds - and, not everyone toes this 'institutional' line.      Chang touches on this issue, which had its roots in Chinese Buddhism, but in the final estimate, it isn't such a big deal. Refreshingly, Garma Chang presents Ch'an/Zen Buddhism on a large canvas, reflecting his wide experience (he had Tibetan Buddhist teachers, besides Chinese ones). Besides this book dealing with Ch'an/Zen, he gave us a beautiful translation of Milarepa's Buddhist verses (The Hundred Thousand Songs of Milarepa), a translation of the Maharatnakuta, and a truly groundbreaking translation of key Hua-yen texts, with lively commentary suitable for contemporary readers. These latter works have kept a stronger profile - but, if you value Ch'an/Zen Buddhism, don't miss this precious little pearl of a book - 'The Practice of Zen.'	2005-05-15
US	16056234	R18NYCDRGX3Q8U	0834802309	206282849	Zen Inklings: Some Stories, Fables, Parables, and Sermons	Books	1	3	7	N	N	Disappointing - from Donald Richie	This book by Donald Richie, a well known critic of Japanese film and Japan-watcher generally, has had reasonable reviews in the press (Japan Times, USA Today). Still, some would say that Donald ought not to have written this book at all. Like the monochrome prints accompanying the text - which surely rank among the least artistic anyone has got away with putting in a book for sale, there is a contrived feel to the presentation of this text.<br /><br /> 'Publishers Weekly' called 'Zen Inklings' a \\"delightful, original introduction to Zen, its inner spirit and application to daily living\\" - and, for their own part, Richie's publisher placed a promotional cover-band  round the text, conveying similar illusions, stating - 'Zen Niumon' ('entering the gate of Zen') in Japanese, as if the book might be used as a beginner's manual for Zen training.<br /><br /> However, readers expecting to find anything of the sort inside the covers of this book - will be disappointed, for 'Zen Inklings' was not written with such needs in mind. Richie's Preface included a disclaimer to this effect - claiming only to have presented a few Zen influenced stories and anecdotes. Some of these are interesting, but more like the Buddhist folk-tales presented by Lafcadio Hearn, than the terse dialogues or pithy<br />remarks usually associated with Zen material. Others convey little more than rather passe generalisations, such as the story titled 'The Zen Library' (p.37-40) a rather over-blown message, telling us, for the nine zillionth time, that 'words about Zen' - and libraries, 'stink.' So far as 'words,''Zen' - and 'libraries' are concerned, some Zen commentaries actually convey something useful about Buddhism, unlike 'pop' Zen literature written by those who try to pre-empt the situation, taking refuge in meaningless platitudes about 'wordless' Zen.<br /><br /> If these sound like harsh strictures - well, it is just that given his background, evident talent - and the resources at his disposal,Richie could have given us something more substantial than this book. As I say - Richie did attach a disclaimer, stating that this book was not meant to be an account of orthodox Zen, but something \\"personal, idiosyncratic, even eccentric, and deeply heterodox. \\" Unfortunately, it wasn't that - either, just rather bland. Richie's publisher presented the book as if it promised to be an introduction to orthodox Zen. This ambivalence is reflected in the fact that some of the stories are traditional, while others were made up - by Richie. In the preface, Richie says he is interested in 'the process' of Zen, not its 'attainments.' That, in itself, is an odd statement to make, for with Zen - 'process' and 'attainment' go hand-in-hand. Richie had only 'one leg' in this project, and it shows. Save the money, or buy someone flowers.	2005-05-13
US	16056234	R174GIOGY3BTQM	0812906241	584552521	America B.C.: Ancient Settlers in the New World	Books	5	40	46	N	N	Open minds are healthy ones.	This fascinating book, summarising the author's findings after an extensive survey of Pre-Columbian sites and artifacts, is a gripping read, a masterpiece of archeological detective work. Page after page, Fell builds up a picture of America B.C., based on his decipherment of ancient stone inscriptions, more or less ignored since Columbus set foot in America. The controversial thing here, is that most such inscriptions are in a variant of Ogham - a script usually associated with the ancient British Druids and proto-Celtic culture in lands, far distant from America. Outlining evidence of migrant Celtic and Semitic cultures - on American soil, as far back as 800 B.C. Fell's fascinating account is fleshed out with abundant photographs, maps, charts, alphabets and scripts, showing how he arrived at his conclusions. Short of being downright pig-headed, it is hard to ignore the evidence Fell has adduced, to make his case.  <br /> <br /> Although a Harvard Professor, Fell presents his ideas in lively and accessible manner. He has had his critics - the most scathing being professional archeologists and ethnologists etc.  whose comfortable world of preconceptions has been turned upside down by his findings. Such critics have attempted to discredit Fell's work as unscientific, amatuerish speculation, <br />even wilful fabrication. However, note well, Barry Fell is a Harvard Professor. The acknowledgements and credits at the front of this book, listing scores of people with impeccable professional qualifications - who have supported and encouraged Fell's work, speak for themselves.   <br /> <br /> Fell does have supportive voices in the American academic establishment - but, the negative 'academic' reactions have succeeded in persuading a number of people to reject Fell's ideas as 'wacky' - much as if he were claiming that aliens are living in underground bunkers in New York, or that the citizens of Long Island actually constitute a colony from Venus.  <br /> <br /> However, the only 'aliens' in this picture, are the Caucasian people who settled in post-Columbian America, thereafter making it a virtue to ignore the history of the earth beneath their feet. Amerindian culture - once defined by an ugly, racist stereotype' - Redskins' - has only recently acquired the respect, interest and attention it rightly deserves, recognised as manifold and complex - in fact, a rich diversity of cultures. By and large, the white colonisers of America shew little interest in getting to know the land they settled in - beyond the bounds of self-interest, securing territory, staking out claims, establishing communities based on European models. Thus, until fairly recent times, even the surviving Amerindian culture has remained a closed book, let alone the secrets of Pre-Columbian America, shrouded in the mists of time.  <br /> <br /> With America B.C.- Barry Fell has presented an exciting and challenging account, which lifts the veil on this matter - not with unfounded speculation, as his citics have asserted, but with hard evidence - written in stone! The disclaimers have had to resort to desperate gestures - to refute Fell. Ridiculously, they have asserted that the Ogham inscriptions - are, in fact, scratch marks left by plough shares etc. Fell shows how Ogham scripts are composed, and the evidence he has provided, speaks for itself. This is a brilliant book, by a brilliant, but profoundly humble man, more interested in pursuing the truth, than know-towing to peer group pressure.  <br /> <br /> Some find it hard to accept that there is a correspondence between proto-archaic languages of America B.C. - and Celtic, putting it down to chance that certain nouns, verbs etc. - resemble each other. How about this: there are correspondences between the Ainu language in Japan and Celtic/Gaelic\\"  - viz.  <br /> <br />      Ainu/Gaelic <br /> <br />   atui/ath            body of water <br /> <br />   charuse/tsuruthain  stream <br /> <br />   hau/au              voice/audible <br /> <br />   iye/iar             ask/say <br /> <br />   karap/corrag        touch/forefinger <br /> <br />   kapuhu/chapno       leather <br /> <br />   mak/mac             descendant of  <br /> <br />   mo shir/mo thir     my land <br /> <br />   pen/ben           mountain     <br />                       <br />-  there are plenty more.  I have thrown these examples in, because they widen the net, showing further evidence of a kind of pan-celtic diaspora (remember the Celtic 'mummy' found in Asia, a few years back? DNA tests made the identity certain). It is virtually impossible to hang-on to the stereotypical ethno-cultural models which provided the basis for such studies, a hundred years ago. In truth, we know better today.        <br />                    <br /> While Fell's book details some astonishing facts, upsetting cherished preconceptions, the picture of human culture which emerges is a much enlarged - and thus, a much richer one. Don't join the unimaginative crustheads and snobs who mock this book. Order two copies of it, give one to a friend, or local library etc. Celebrate the rich fabric of American culture!  On an ironic end-note, I confess that I found my copy of this book in a s/hand store,marked 'Discard. Kyoto International School.'  <br /> <br />  <br /> <br />	2005-05-12
US	16056234	R2GRZF9NGY8OCB	0824819497	849941862	Pruning the Bodhi Tree: The Storm Over Critical Buddhism	Books	4	44	47	N	N	Cut the weeds, but not the root!	This is a difficult book to review, because the primary issue at stake - the abuse or misuse of Buddhist doctrine does need to be addressed (viz. the substitution of nationalist or dubious self-serving agendas) - but, I question the wisdom of locating the problem in Buddhist doctrine per se, as Hakamaya Noriaki and Matsumoto Shiro would have it. Messrs Hakamaya and Matsumoto - have found a ready body of supporters in the halls of academia - and, the essays in this book are an attempt to put the issue in clearer perspective.      I would be happy if the problematic issue central to this book were simply an academic one - but, it isn't. If Hakayama and Matsumoto are right in their assumptions, there is a serious flaw running through our received perception of Mahayana and Zen Buddhism etc. - arguably the Buddhist schools which have been the most influencial in the West. In short, if Hakamaya and Matsumoto are correct, we have embodied a fallacious distortion of Buddhism.      Needless to say, this is a strong claim to make, and not everyone agrees with it. The essays by Sallie B. King, Peter Gregory, Yamabe Nobuyoshi et al. - go some way to revise the rather harsh strictures delivered by the 'Critical Buddhist' fraternity. Regrettably, the case made by Hakamaya, Matsumoto  -amplified again by their supporters in this book, seems to have been based on generalisations - even a dogmatic refusal to see that the key terms in question (e.g. Dharmadhatu, Dhatu-vada, Tathagata-garbha, Hongaku etc.) - admit of alternative interpretations. Peter Gregory's carefully written chapter - 'Is Critical Buddhism Really Critical'? - fairly turns the tables on Hakamaya and Matsumoto, pointing out that their arguments are - paradoxically, a kind of 'substantialism' and thus self-defeating. Thankfully, Peter took the trouble to reappraise what is actually stated in the sources, deemed so questionable by the 'Critical' Buddhist fraternity.     That said, it is undeniably true that terms such as 'inherent enlightenment' (hongaku) are open to misunderstanding, and may even have been exploited to produce results running counter to their authentic context. When it comes to the context of Japanese Buddhism, this has clearly been the case. The whole thing about 'Imperal Way Buddhism' has been put in fresh perspective by Brian Victoria (cf. 'Zen at War.' Zen to Senso). Yanagida Seizan, Ichikawa Hakugen et al, have also stated the problem. In their case, they touched on the moral or ethical failings which led to disaster. What worries me about the arguments of Hakamaya and Matsumoto - is that by locating the blame in abstract doctrinal positions and historically remote sources, they have conveniently avoided the contemporary moral or ethical issues raised by Japan's Imperialist aspirations in the 20th c. Let's face it, when thousands of Buddhists were busy copying out the Hannya-haramita Shingyo in war-time Japan, to generate merit for the military, they were deceiving themselves.      To be objective here, this is no more (or less) bizarre than 'Christian' prayers for victory, as thousands of tons of bombs rained down on innocent non-combatants in cities. This is the madness of modern war. It is ourselves we should blame, not the religions we have exploited to justify it. Hence, there is an irony to this book. When even the Hua-yen Ching (Jpn. Kegon Kyo) has been cited as a latent source of 'totalitarian' thinking, something has gone seriously wrong with the Buddhist scholarship. Not Buddhism - or Buddhist scriptures, but human delusion and duplicity have been responsible for the evils of concern to Messrs Hakamaya and Matsumoto. We all know that during the rise of the Third Reich, the Pope tacitly supported Adolf Hitler, but in post-war Europe, people did not try to place the blame on Thomas Aquinas or Augustine. If half the arguments in this book were true, that is exactly what people in Europe should have done. If the doctrines singled out by 'Critical Buddhist' fraternity are as pernicious as they say, why have they not given rise to similar, totalitarian tendencies - in other Mahayana lands? The Chinese Buddhists under Mao were very reluctant to embrace the totaliarian communist doctrine, expressly because it went against their spiritual sensitivities. They were persecuted for their reluctance. Tibetan Buddhists, now under Chinese occupation, have also had the thin end of the wedge, for appearing less than amenable to a totalitarian doctrine. Petty Nationalism and doctrinaire attitudes do not fit in that well with Mahayana Buddhism. If it has been 'squeezed' in, then that has been by way of coercion and human weakness, not by virtue of anything explicitly stated in Mahayana Buddhism.      It strikes the reviewer that the primary problem here, stems from mixing up the claims of samvrti-satya and paramartha-satya. It has always been incumbent upon Buddhists to recognise the difference, but if the former is confounded with the latter, the door is wide open to a myriad misunderstandings. It is no secret that during the Vietnam War, the late Yasutani Roshi railed against Westerners in the anti-war movement and their notion of 'equalitarian' politics, calling it 'evil equality.' In feudal societies, the Sangha was more or less obliged to leave matters of polity to the ruling elite - and, Yasutani's thinking of such matters was certainly a legacy of the feudal age. It is anachronistic to look for democratic instincts and politically autonomous individuals, in societies which had no place for them. In this respect, it is hard to believe that modern scholars are prepared to waste their breath, pointing out the obvious -  viz., that Prince Shotoku's 'Constitution' did not empower individuals, as a modern, democratic constitution might. The challenge, then, for us latter day Buddhists, is to translate an equalitarian awareness into action - in Buddhist terms. The Dharma banner is not bounded by nationalistic creeds - and, if truth be told, nothing stated in the Buddhist Sutras, Vinaya regulations etc., inculcates blind adherence to the like. Admittedly, you won't find buckets of advice about what to do, when confronted with conflict scenarios on the modern scale, because they would have been inconceivable. In that sense, perhaps this book is a 'wake up' call. Studies like Prof. Ling's \\"Buddhism, Imperalism and War'(OUP) - puts certain things in perspective. But as I say, it is not so much Buddhist doctrine which has been at fault here, as the failure to make better sense of it - socially.	2005-05-11
US	16056234	RQ9I5HEPQRPZV	0140447628	499165780	The Cloud of Unknowing and Other Works (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	49	52	N	N	By an unknown author. How fitting!	This classic guide to Christian contemplative prayer (effectively, what we call 'meditation' these days, rather  - than 'asking' for something), is as meaningful now, as the day it was written. Still, it won't mean a thing if you aren't drawn to the contemplative life - but, as the appropriately 'anonymous' author points out, with almost Zen-like acuteness, if you are truly given to the spiritual art and discipline hinted at in his directions - you will find that it supervenes wherever you may happen to be (\\"for when you are nowhere physically, you are everywhere spiritually. . .\\" ). Quite fairly then, this approach has been called 'Christian Zen' - and so it is.<br /><br /> Spearing's translation of 'The Cloud of Unknowing' has replaced the previous Penguin edition presented by Clifton Walters. I would still recommend Walters' version, if you can find a copy. It gave a good introduction to the 'Cloud' and its background - useful to read alongside Spearing's introductory material. As we have remarked before, Christian 'prayer' is often taken to mean 'petitionary prayer' - asking for something (Eckhart said that \\"people want to use God, just as they would a cow\\" !). There is, of course, a perfectly noble and proper place for petitionary prayer, but in some ways, it does heighten our sense of separation from God - at the worst, leaving us as mere creatures, seeking creaturely rewards. The 'Way of Unknowing' - set forth in the 'Cloud,' represents a much neglected dimension of Christianity - the way of self-emptying. In a certain sense, it is more suited to an age tired of religious formalism and the mere externals of faith. Some of the 'Cloud-author's' comments - about Christians who literally 'look upwards' - as if God were in the sky etc., might be those of a contemporary critic. Nevertheless, the 'Cloud-author' speaks as an 'orthodox'' Christian, and he is by no means mocking the Church.<br /><br /> Nobody who reads the 'Cloud' has an obligation to consider inter-faith issues, but we live in 'global' age of inter-cultural - and, hopefully, trans-cultural values. Christians the calibre of Thomas Merton found it an enrichening experience to explore Buddhist horizons. With the possible exception of Suzuki Daistezu, after discovering Eckhart, Asian Buddhist writers have been inclined to dismiss Christian mysticism, saying much about the affective, emotional and allegedly 'sexual' feelings of the Christian mystics. There is no 'God' in Buddhism - which cannot be made into 'Theism' without considerable distortion. Still, there is a transcendental ground - in Buddhism, and that's what intelligent Christian mystics mean . . .by searching for God.<br /><br />  In one edition of the 'Cloud' text, Walters went into a digression on Zen, saying just enough to dismiss it as 'nihilism.' Having appreciated Walters' work, and finding that much in the 'Cloud' had an evident resonance with Zen, the reviewer contacted the author (a Christian priest), pointing out that Buddhism (cf. the Diamond Sutra) expressly warns us against holding 'nihilist' views.<br /><br />  Suzuki seemed to regard Eckhart as exceptional (the Church in his day charged Eckhart with heresy, and though he acquitted himself, the Church banned his books for centuries, after his death, just to be sure). On mature reckoning, however, Eckhart was but part of a mystical flowering which emerged throughout Western Europe. The 'Cloud' author was part of the same flowering, happily avoiding the pitfalls which had beset Eckhart.<br /><br />  One reviewer has described the 'Cloud' - as 'fun' to read. Understandably then, another reviewer has astutely pointed out that the 'Cloud' text is preceeded by an injunction, discouraging frivolous use of the material - and this, for good reasons (similar injunctions can be found in Buddhist contemplative manuals), for anyone who undertakes such practices needs to do so in disciplined manner. In their own way, the Christian mystics recognised what the Buddhists call 'ma-kyo' - demonic states or hindrances which can arise in the course of contemplation. Still, there is no superstitious fear of 'sin' or 'evil' here. Rather like a Zen master, utilising a kind of spiritual ju-jitsu, the 'Cloud-author' points out that - if you encounter obstructive hindrances, thoughts etc. - you can 'look over their shoulder' as it were, rather than giving them more power, by trying to resist them directly. The 'Cloud' is an amazing little text, which may yet gain fresh life and meaning.<br /><br /> A final point, the Amazon.com editorial notes repeated the erroneous 'blurb' placed on the back-cover of the book by the publisher, attributing the 'Mystica Theologia' (Pseud. Dionsyius) to the 'Cloud-author.' While 14th c. mystics such as the 'Cloud-author' used the 'Mystica Theologia' (Mid. Eng.'Deonise Hid Divinitie)to support their ideas, the 'Mystica Theologia' was written centuries before, circa 500 a.d. The 14th c. works in this book are 'The Cloud of Unknowing,' 'The Book of Privy Counselling' and 'An Epistle of Prayer.'recognised what the Buddhists call 'ma-kyo' - demonic states or hindrances which can arise in the course of contemplation. Still, there is no superstitious fear of 'sin' or 'evil' here. Rather like a Zen master, utilising a kind of spiritual ju-jitsu, the 'Cloud-author' points out that - if you encounter obstructive hindrances, thoughts etc. - you can 'look over their shoulder' as it were, rather than giving them more power, by trying to resist them directly. The 'Cloud' is an amazing little text, which may yet gain fresh life and meaning.  <br /> <br /> A final point, the Amazon.com editorial notes repeated the erroneous 'blurb' placed on the back-cover of the book by the publisher, attributing the 'Mystica Theologia' (Pseud. Dionsyius) to the 'Cloud-author.' While 14th c. mystics such as the 'Cloud-author' used the 'Mystica Theologia' (Mid. Eng.'Deonise Hid Divinitie)to support their ideas, the 'Mystica Theologia' was written centuries before, circa 500 a.d. The 14th c. works in this book are 'The Cloud of Unknowing,' 'The Book of Privy Counselling' and 'An Epistle of Prayer.'	2005-05-10
US	16056234	R3TS959J60WUC8	0834804409	276466543	Zen Teaching, Zen Practice: Philip Kapleau And The Three Pillars Of Zen	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Reviewing ourselves	The articles in this book, edited by Kenneth Kraft, were contributed by eleven people who studied and practiced Zen under the aegis of Philip Kalpeau Roshi, whose seminal guide - 'The Three Pillars of Zen' - and personal example, did much to put authentic Zen practice on the map in the West. As such, this text deserved more than the scathing remarks found in the single Amazon.com review to date.  It attempts to assess the fruits of Kapleau's teaching and influence. By extension, it serves as comment on the legacy of Kapleau's teachers, Yasutani Roshi and Harada Roshi.  <br /> <br /> While the collection of essays edited by Ken Kraft can be read as an independent work, the 'retrospective' nature of this material is best digested in light of the aspirations found in Kapleau's seminal work (The Three Pillars of Zen) - which inspired the contributors. The opening article by Albert Stunkard details something of the background to Kapleau's own quest - including their meeting with D.T. Suzuki in post-war Japan. Mostly written in an informal style, all of these summary-essays have something interesting to say. It is salutary to note that one contributor - Rafe Martin, reflected on his concern over the bearing that intensive Zen practice might have upon his children. Happily, if the verdict of a practitioner from the next generation (Josh Schrei, Chapter 5) is anything to go by, the diligence of his parents' generation has commanded respect, rather than contempt. Without making a big deal out of it, Schrei contrasts the spirit motivating his parents' quest, with the 'pop-spirituality' now found in some quarters, promising 'seven easy steps to enlightenment,' financial abundance, or to fulfil the search for ideal soul-mates etc. As against the dubious 'mix -n' -match' approach, for which 'spirituality' is merely an accessory, Schrei notes the 'no-frills' spirit behind Zen and its uncompromising refusal to pander to egotistical whims.  <br />    <br /> Still, otherwise diligent practitioners - not least Kapleau himself, have had to concede that Zen will undergo certain modifications in the West. The 'vertical' or 'hierarchical' authority structure of traditional Zen temple life seems fated to acquire a more diffused, horizontal dimension. Contributors such as Bodhin Kjolhede, Sunyana Graef and Mitra Bishop, who carry on the mantle of Philip Kapleau, have had to tread the delicate line between innovative 'adaption' and the danger of dissolution. Mitra Bishop asks if American Zen is 'too comfortable'? - citing the rigours she faced, training in Japan. Be that as it may, almost all the second generation Zen teachers in the West are exploring ways to adapt their teaching methods to the needs of their students. If you are interested in Zen as a practice, this book will put certain things in better perspective. It is, above all, an honest book. But to get a feel for the background against which it was written, I strongly recommend taking a careful look at 'The Three Pillars of Zen.' We would all be poorer, spiritually speaking, without the substantial contribution that Philip Kapleau made to the growth of Zen Buddhism in the West. This collection of essays is a fitting tribute to P.K. and his work.  <br />	2005-05-09
US	16056234	RRILTPNXIXCMY	8121510805	550197940	Central Philosophy of Buddhism: A Study of Madhyamika System	Books	5	21	23	N	N	By far the best account of Madhyamika in English	Murti's study of the Madhyamika should be required reading for anyone interested in Buddhism. With questionable relevance, a number of people now seem to assume that 'post-modern' Western philosophy is moving in the same direction as Nagarjuna- and, mutatis mutandis, more than a few Western Buddhists seem happy to confirm this illusion, coining the idioms of post-modern Western philosophy to confirm 'Buddhist' truths.  <br /> <br /> Presumably, then, Nagarjuna and the 'post-modernists' are doing the same thing - viz. the recognition that all truth statements are infected with relativity and its corollary - the denial of any place for 'absolutes' in philosophy. In truth, however, as Murti makes clear, Nagarjuna's arguments (the prasanga) were put forth to make way for direct perception of the 'absolute' via prajna-intuition/Buddhi, a faculty entirely unknown to 'post-modernist' Western philosophy. Lacking this faculty, or any awareness of a higher truth (paramartha-satya), the 'post-modernists' are simply stranded in samvrti/samsara. Nagarjuna speaks as a Buddhist - someone advocating a path (marga), with a faculty of insight (bodhi) and a transcendental goal - nirvana. Nagarjuna's declared identity between 'samarara' and 'nirvana' is not therefore, a logical inference, but a potential dis-covery, awaiting those who awaken 'bodhi.' We can go in for as much 'deconstruction' as we like - disowning or abandoning concepts etc., but without prajna-intuition or a spiritual path, it boils down to mere scepticism. Many centuries ago, Sextus Empiricus advanced similar arguments, but that didn't make him a follower of the Madhyamika. On the contrary, it merely left him feeling confirmed in his ignorance.  <br /> <br /> It is of some note that Murti's account of the Madhyamika has not been framed in terms of a critique of the Theravada - or Southern Buddhism. Murti makes it expressly clear that - going by the classical sources, the Madhyamika (i.e. Mahayana)seems to have arisen as a criticism of proto-typical schools, quite other than those in the Pali-based Theravada tradition. In short, contrary to what is often assumed, the Madhyamika was not a critique of 'Southern' Buddhism - by 'Northern' Buddhists - but a critique which emerged within a corpus of related teachings, arising from internal contradictions. Northern Buddhists have been accused of holding prejudicial views, by coining the terms 'Hinayana' and 'Mahayana.' In the not too distant past, The World Fellowship of Buddhists decided to place a moratorium on the use of the term 'Hinayana' - even though all the textual evidence shows that it acquired meaning in the context of Northern Budhist sources.  <br /> <br /> Murti's careful account shows the way that the Madhyamika came into being, relating it to primitive Buddhism and the various schools or systems that emerged from it. He also explores the relationship between the Madhyamika and non-Buddhist schools, such as the Upanishadic tradition, the Vedanta etc. Murti's work is accompanied by helpful footnotes, pin-pointing key terms and phrases. This study of the Madhyamika will not make popular reading - but, it will prove satisfying to those who wish to make sense of the rather complex web of notions and matrix of ideas which helped to shape Buddhist schools as we know of them today.	2005-05-09
US	16056234	R2SVKWXQWNI8GT	0802151183	385196137	Essays in Zen Buddhism, First Series	Books	5	40	42	N	N	A classic, engaging introduction to Zen	More than any other known source, this series of essays (including the other two companion volumes) have probably done the most to put Zen 'on the map' - in the Western world. In some quarters - at least, it has become fashionable to regard D.T. Suzuki as 'passe' - a bridge builder, whose work has now reached its 'sell-by' date. While I can see why some people might feel that way - if training with a Roshi, or tired of 'reading too much' - Suzuki's 'essays' continue to have relevance for people making their first dip into the world of Zen.<br /><br /> In one sense, you could say that Suzuki wants to say too much, and the 'purists' may fault him for it. But he was good at his job - and knew exactly how to write about such things for a Western audience, saying enough to entice them and whet their appetite, then drop them in at the deep end! His way of doing this was lively and engaging. Suzuki was a good communicator (he had an American wife, which certainly helped. Beatrice Lane Suzuki was an accomplished student of Buddhism in her own right) - and, in some respects, Suzuki was more successful than some of the roshis teaching in the West. He wasn't trying to sell you an institution, but pointing to the 'treasure house' we must all find, for ourselves.<br /><br /> One thing is worth noting about Suzuki's 'essays.' For the most part, the anecdotes he has presented were taken from the T'ang masters in the Dentoroku (Chuan Teng Lu). You get a pretty fair spread of teaching-examples, and they are not all from masters in the Rinzai (Lin-chi) lineage. In the T'ang, there was no such sharp division between the Zen schools and in that sense, Suzuki's account has a freshness about it.<br /><br /> Suzuki will not bog you down with laboured academic digressions. He was rather slap-dash about footnotes - and as such, you get the very 'marrow' of Zen teaching. Suzuki had his foibles - but, he remains the 'grand old man of Zen' who whetted our appetite. These essays have life in them yet! Digest Suzuki. You wont regret it!ki. You wont regret it!	2005-05-02
US	16056234	R2O9Y105FF0WCZ	0060901918	745908638	The Perennial Philosophy	Books	5	17	19	N	N	What the world could do with hearing, right now.	It was reassuring to find 99% of the reviews here, praising  Huxley's 'Perennial Philosophy.' It is a remarkably thoughtful and constructive endeavour to explore the essential spirit behind all true religious experience(as against 'religion' as a set of wooden beliefs and self- enclosing, self-serving systems). The minority voice in the reviews, discrediting Huxley's work, reflects the narrower definition which says \\"I-am-very-much-other-than-you/my faith -sets-me-apart \\" . . .  <br /> <br /> This is the creed of the bigoted mind, and 'religious' bigotry is probably the most dangerous and hypocritical of all. It is this tendency which has made 'modern-man' sceptical of faith and claims made in in the name of 'religion.' It looks like a formula to go through life - with a permanent squint, as if all religious propositions were saying: Well, make your choice; which door-crack do you wish to view the world and your fellow men through?  Ostensibly then, the world of 'creeds' and the 'open mind' represent antithetical poles of existence and thus, the sceptical cast of mind.  <br /> <br /> The refreshing thing about Huxley's 'Perrenial Philosophy' is that it highlights the great-heartedness which lies at the root of all genuine religious insight and feeling, which almost invariably involves self-emptying and poverty of spirit. This is the central theme of Huxley's book, which he fleshes out with abundant quotations and anecdotes drawn from a diversity of religious traditions and backgrounds - a case of 'behold the spirit' - rather than 'behold the institution.'  <br /> <br /> It is one of those ironies of life that while the World's greatest 'mystics' have tended to speak a shared language, their parent institutions have defined themselves - against each other, by invoking cardinal differences. Huxley was all too aware of this, and wasn't making the naive claim that 'all religions are the same' - when it comes to narrow, doctrinal definitions. But the deepest riches of the spirit are not caste in stone - and can never be written down (yes, even Jesus warns us about 'the letter that killeth the spirit). For Huxley, all true religion - all true religious experience, is essentially 'mystical'  - the 'living Word,' as against its pallid substitute in paper scriptures. In this respect, Holy Writ resembles a minefield, rather than a garden. The worst kind of 'fundamentalist' tends to believe that even the positioning of the stops, colons and semi-colons of scripture, have been ordained from on high. Divergence of opinion over the semantic function of a single Greek 'iota' - in a religious text, once led a whole Christian community to split into two, separate halves.  <br /> <br /> Huxley makes an excellent job of showing us the other side of the picture - restating the perennial philosophy through the eyes of the Vedanta, Buddhism, St. John of the Cross, Eckhart, William Law, Madame Guyon, Islamic mystics like Rumi - and numerous others, delving deeply into the underlying psychology and living spirit which made these people SEE the truth of THAT which they spake, rather than just preaching or writing about it. For reasons best known to themselves - chiefly, insecurity, I suspect, this 'perennial' vision is the last thing many of the 'orthodox' like to see or hear discussed. Disturbingly, one sort of 'religious revival' taking place in our midst, seems to involve retreating into ultra-conservative, dogmatic stances. It is worth remembering that the original and highest meaning of the term 'Dogma' - used by the Church, signified \\"THAT which can neither be proven nor refuted by human reason (or logic). \\" Hence, it once signified the very opposite of what it is now assumed to mean, namely, that certain words, concepts and pronouncements per se - are absolutely true, in the literal sense. In short, in its wisdom, the Church was saying that its highest truth embodies a divine mystery. And THAT is what we find celebrated in this book. 'Tat TvamAsi' (Thou art That). <br /> <br /> Some readers may find 'The Perennial Philosophy' easier to handle, after digesting Huxley's 'The Doors of Perception.' Misquoting Tim Leary, one might say that the theme of the latter is 'Turn On, Tune in - and Drop Completely In'! Huxley was acutely aware of the ambivalent nature of consciousness - in one sense, enslaving us, in another, potentially liberating. He was conscious of the paradoxical fact that human beings crave fulfilment by getting out of themselves, seeking release into the 'blessedly other-than-self,'a search for self-transcendence. Huxley recognised a two-fold possibility here, horizontal 'transcendence' achieved through things like sexual gratification, immersion in collective and public spectacles, political movements etc. - and 'vertical' transcendence i.e. mystical transcendence or quasi-religious transcendence, which differs from the former type, in that it brings the individual to a higher, supra-personal awareness, touching on the totality of life, eternal verities. Conversely, by its very nature, the quest for 'horizontal' transcendence brings but short lived rewards. As Huxley saw it, we are driven - either way, by 'divine discontent' - the itch of which ultimately makes us ask the sort of questions underlying the perennial philosophy.	2005-04-29
US	16056234	R3CYM1ADNX9RL7	0691017700	494531778	Zen and Japanese Culture	Books	4	13	19	N	N	Good - if you read the later, revised editions.	I respect D.T. Suzuki enough, to have visited the Suzuki family graveyard in Kita Kamakura, upon my first arrival in Japan. I say this as a prelude, because I am going to say some critical things about the Ist edition of this book - which contained - in places, unspeakable nonsense for a man who would otherwise have to be regarded as one of the best inter-cultural bridge builders of the 20th c.      To get to the point, the first edition of this book was an exercise in Nihon-shugi or 'Japanism' - tinged with blatantly  nationalistic feelings, as against the spiritual riches of a study like Suzuki's 'Nihon Teki Rei-sei.' I love the best of Japanese culture, have a Japanese wife - and am blessed with Japanese friends, dear to my heart. The sort of thing found in the Ist edition of this book, would make most of them choke on their rice, because it is dreadful caricature.      Like many other people, I owe Suzuki a lot. His other writings are far more meaningful and I regret that he wrote this book at all - if adjudged by the Ist ed. For a while, he was caught up in the Japanese megalomania of the 30's. The glorification of massed Bushido in this book was stupid (nothing to do with the Samurai, anyway). This stuff doesn't scream at you from every page - that's the rub of it. It lurks here and there, among otherwise delightful observations and anecdotes. But you can't help objecting to observations about how the Chinese 'lost' the beautiful culture they had once inspired in Japan, by dint of contact with Zen. In the Ist ed of this book, the mere fact of being 'Japanese' is enough to make culture and enlightenment ooze out of every crack and pore of life. Its a little more sophisticated than that - and, like some Italians, say, who live amid artistic splendours without the least feeling for it, not all Japanese value what is beautiful and good about their country and culture.      I regret having to say unkind things about dear old Daisetzu, who has otherwise brought memuch inspiration.	2005-04-28
US	16056234	R2ZYZ5ATG1XES4	0824810236	703932796	Zen Action/Zen Person	Books	2	26	42	N	N	Patchy	Though rated highly in some quarters (especially university campuses), I think this book is terribly over-rated. Its popularity may simply spring from the fact that Kasulis is conveying what people would like to hear, rather than what Rinzai (Lin-chi) had to say for himself. Don't trust me! - get hold of a good translation of the Rinzai Roku - and judge for yourself.  <br /> <br /> <br /> I particularly distrust the way Kasulis has used Lin-chi's 'true man of no title' (wu wei chen-jen) to fit the contemporary disease of relativism - viz., that the 'true man' is 'situational.' I know this tallies with deconstructionist platitudes served up as philosophy these days, with their own way of deconstructing 'selves' - but, read Lin-chi at length, and see how much it corresponds.  <br /> <br /> Lin-chi's 'true man' (chen-jen) refers to the transcendental ground or Buddha-nature. Chen-jen' is a 'noun' - not a verb, hence Kasulis has turned Lin-chi's meaning inside out or back to front, by exploiting it in the verbal sense. Lin-chi talks about being 'free from birth and death' - and therefore, he is not encouraging anyone to identify with the fleeting phenomenal world. The 'true man' is not a monkey, jumping from one situation to another. On the contrary, Lin-chi asks us to look into the underlying nature of 'appearances' - to discover the immutable - the 'true man' who lacks nothing. This is not behavioural psychology - but Buddhism, and nothing to do with finding authentic selfhood as the anomaly of given situations. <br />But as I say, don't trust me! Read Lin-chi, ponder his words well - and consider the outcome.	2005-04-27
US	16056234	R1NX8J93K3AU	8120808193	552233457	Sudden and Gradual (Approaches to Enlightenment in Chinese Thought)	Books	5	20	21	N	N	A thorough and useful study	This book deserves more than the grudging review granted to date. It may not be everyones cup of tea, especially if seduced by simplistic accounts of 'pop Zen.' Make no mistake about it, the topic which forms the central focus of this book - viz. the tension between the claims made in the name of 'sudden enlightenment' - and the 'gradualist' elements which, ironically, seem to be required in other respects - to make practical sense of it, will engage anyone who takes Zen practice seriously. This problem engaged the attention of Tsung-mi, an eminent Chinese Ch'an Buddhist who lived in the formative years of the Ch'an/Zen tradition, when the ideas at stake were current and needed to be resolved. In a sense, those of us engaged with Zen in the West are in an analogous position, such issues therefore being much more than 'dead history.'<br /><br /> Peter Gregory edited the material provided by a number of contributors - and gave us the chapter dealing with Tsung-mi.<br /><br />In my view, this was the strongest chapter of the whole book and would have made it worth buying, anyway. As it is, the other chapters have much to offer - and, all in all,  this book repays careful reading. I list the chapter headings for reference. It gives you a better idea of what's in store. I don't propose to review all the material, but note the chapters that struck me as significant.<br /><br /> The Sudden and Gradual Debates<br /><br /> The Mirror of the Mind. Paul Demieville.<br /><br />Sudden Illumination or Simultaneous Comprehension: Remarks on Chinese and Tibetan Terminology.@ R.A.Stein.<br /><br />Purifying Gold.@The Metaphor of Effort and Intuition in Buddhist Thought and Practice.@  Luis O. Gomez.<br /><br />Sudden and Gradual Enlightenment in Chinese Buddhism.<br /><br />Tao-sheng's Theory of Sudden Enlightenment Re-examined.<br /><br />- Whalen Lai.<br /><br />Sudden and Gradual Intimately Conjoined.@Chih-i's T'ien-tai and Gradual Intimately Conjoined.@Chih-i's T'ien-tai view.<br /><br />- Neal Donner.<br /><br />Shen-hui and the Teaching of Sudden Enlightenment in Early Ch'an Buddhism.@- John R. MacRae.<br /><br />Sudden Enlightenment Followed by Gradual Cultivation.@Tsung-mi's Analysis of Mind. - Peter N. Gregory.<br /><br />The 'Short-cut' Approach of Kan-hu@Meditation.@The Evolution of a Practical Subitism in Chinese Ch'an Buddhism.<br /><br />- Robert E. Buswell Jnr.<br /><br />Analogies in the Cultural Sphere<br /><br />The Sudden and Gradual in Chinese Poetry Criticism:<br /><br />An Examination of the Ch'an Poetry Analogy.<br /><br />- Richard John Lynn.<br /><br />Tung Ch'i-chang's \\"Southern and Northern Schools\\" in the History and Theory of Painting. - James Cahill.<br /><br /> The chapter John MacRae gave us dealing with Shen-hui, makes rather much of the allegedly 'polemical' use She-hui made of sudden enlightenment. While Shen-hui certainly proselytised, I'm not so sure that he was motivated by 'polemical' ideas.<br /><br />I would question the degree of competitiveness involved between<br /><br />the 'Southern' and 'Northern' Ch'an schools - and, in a certain sense, John's other writings, focusing on the Northern school, seem to weaken the sense of division.<br /><br /> Peter Gregory's chapter remains my favourite piece.@Less prone to dwell on the polemical side of things, he endeavours to explore the practical issues at stake.@Tsung-mi was an admirable figure and Peter Gregory has made a sterling job of reproducing the intricacies of Tsung-mi's 'Ch'an Chart.'<br /><br /> Neal Donner's article is well worth reading.@It might be noted that - in the early days, the Ch'an and T'ien-tai schools were closely connected.@T'ien-tai monks are listed in the Chuang Teng Lu (a Ch'an history) - as a collatoral lineage.<br /><br />Robert Buswell's article concentrates on Ta-hui's 'kan-hua' (or hua-tou) technique. Surprisingly, perhaps, given the cliched references to Ta-hui as an opponent of 'silent illumination' (the more lifeless equivalents of which he certainly criticised), Buswell hints that the final effects or fruit of 'kan-hua' meditation may actually boil down to a kind of silent illumination' - all the same. Implicitly, ideas to this effect are found in the teachings of Hsu-yun, the most eminent Ch'an master of the 20th c.<br /><br /> All the material in this text is worth reading, including the chapters relating to the influence of Ch'an upon the arts. The Chinese sources are noted thoroughly, complete with the Chinese script.ation' (the more lifeless equivalents of which he certainly criticised), Buswell hints that the final effects or fruit of 'kan-hua' meditation may actually boil down to a kind of silent illumination' - all the same. Implicitly, ideas to this effect are found in the teachings of Hsu-yun, the most eminent Ch'an master of the 20th c.  <br /> <br /> All the material in this text is worth reading, including the chapters relating to the influence of Ch'an upon the arts. The Chinese sources are noted thoroughly, complete with the Chinese script.	2005-04-27
US	16056234	R13WBTZC39RMDU	0791408388	367740842	A Study of Dogen: His Philosophy and Religion (English and Japanese Edition)	Books	3	10	15	N	N	Interesting, but erratic	Prof. Abe is a devoted interpreter of Dogen - and, he surely brings out the lucid, lyrical qualities of Dogen's thought. My reservations about this book concern two things (a) the Heideggerian inferences read into much of Dogen's ideas - and (b) the failure to address or even acknowledge the problematic side of the 'later' Dogen (post 1243) - from which point on, he began to vilify other Buddhists (e.g. Lin-chi, Ta-hui).I hate to spoil the sense of immaculate purity, but Dogen was downright 'cranky' and unjust with such comments.     Read Carl Bielefeldt's 'Recarving the Dragon' (which presents, verbatim, from Dogen's work, these less than respectful remarks). You cannot read such things, without puzzling over Dogen's motives. I agree with the reviewer, who stated that we ought to take stock of Dogen's Tendai background. Dogen says much about the harrassment suffered through the deeds of Tendai followers. I wouldn't paint them white either, in Kamakura Japan, but one wonders why Dogen felt obliged to leave the Koshoji at Fukakusa over such matters, when Enni Benen - who set up at the Tofukuji around the same time, seems to have experienced little opposition. Did Dogen pay the price for being intolerant? The only tentative conclusion to be drawn here, is that Dogen suffered from a persecution complex.	2005-04-27
US	16056234	R228KLX4J90Z1N	0791429040	545399497	Wordsworth and Zen Mind: The Poetry of Self-Emptying	Books	5	9	9	N	N	The 'Tao of England', as a Chinese friend put it.	Inter-cultural studies of this type sometimes seem of dubious value. Zen - in particular (or Taoism), has been dragged into all sorts of odd cultural weddings (perhaps even a few funerals - so far as cultural relevance goes). Happily, this is not such a mis-marriage, but a sensitive appraisal of the Zen-like - or at least, 'Taoist' feeling evident in Wordsworth's most inspired poetry. If not a guide to Zen, it is well worth digestion for the Zen-like nuances Rudy has found in the Lakeland poet's work.      We live in an era of 'anti-heroes' and cultural table turning. The 'masters' have all been in for a bash. Like Shakespeare, Lawrence etc. - Wordsworth has not been spared the knife or boot. Indeed, the 'critical line' has been considered so 'politically correct' in recent years, anti-Wordsworthians have even been guest speakers at Wordsworth Summer-school venues in the Lake district. That is good -in one sense, because Wordsworth has also had to suffer the 'Wordsworthians.' The tacky view of Wordsworth - what might be called 'the Kendal Mint Cake' version, probably invited scorn. The Victorian reading of Wordsworth was rather contrived - an urban sentimentalist's week-end view of what W's vision was all about - something prattled about in the genteel tea-rooms of Bowness, all violets and rose arbours, minus exposure to rain-sodden fells, misty crags and sheep-dung underfoot.       Aldous Huxley, of all people, once had a 'down' on Wordsworth, arguing that his poetry had nothing at all to do with the harsh realities of life -i.e. 'nature red in tooth and claw' - the hostile face she sometimes presents to us. As Huxley then saw things, nature was actually 'other-than-human' in the worst possible sense, full of dark threats, killer instincts and hazards. Nature produced nasty little microbes, capable of causing epidemics. Hence, in this sense, not a source of comfort or blessing at all - as Wordsworth celebrated it. Besides being blamed for romanticizing nature at large, Wordsworth has also been blamed for romanticising the rustic life, painting nice colours over a harsh struggle for existence, oppression, life spent in social bondage etc.      The beautiful thing about Rudy's book, is that he has read Wordsworth without dragging the poet to court vis-a-vis the welter of secondary literature, be it that of the 'Wordsworthians' or the 'anti' brigade. As such, Rudy has recaptured something fresh, vital and meaningful - about the poet's vision. A body of benign criticism exists, which has tried to make better sense of exactly what it is - that W privileges, in his poetry. In one sense - it appears to be a world of 'given' things, yet in another, it seems to be the poet's own vision and subjective power which is being privileged. Put in simple terms, such questions are asking whether W's poetry is self-discovery, or discovery of the 'other'? Again, people have asked whether W's poetry is fuelled by theism? - or by pantheism?             Rudy displaces these dualistic considerations, seeing W's poetic project in terms of a de-centering, poesis as a process of self-emptying, hence the affinity with Taoist or Zen Buddhist type thought. He explores this theme by looking at key verses and lines of W's work, letting them resonate with parallel intuitions - drawn from Far-eastern sources. I am inclined to accept Rudy's perspective here, for I sense the same process at work in W's poetry. This is important, because it may mean that we have to open ourselves to similar experience, to understand the lakeland poet aright. Reading Wordsworth ought to be sharing in his project, just as reading Lao-tzu, Hui-neng or Dogen, means sharing in their project.      I don't think the correlation between W's environment and his poetry is purely accidental. The weather and atmosphere of the English Lake District is highly mutable. Within the space of a day, it is possible to see as many 'mood changes' - weatherwise, as you would see in a week - in otherparts of Britain. One moment, the peaks and fells can be virtually invisible in dense, dark cloud. An hour or so later, there can be a blue sky, and what happens in between is what bestows the mystical spirit to the place, radical transformations, alternately concealing and revealing bits of landscape, peaks and houses, trees and sheep, in a shape shifting panormana. It is, in fact, oppressive - if you have settled expectations (i.e. a fixed mind). One reaction is to flee the outdoors and take refuge in the tea-rooms, awaiting periods of sun. But that misses the whole, terrible beauty of the place, which lies in the constantly shape shifting atmospherics. Things and objects hitherto invisible are suddenly pierced with rays of burnished bronze and gold, silver rays shoot through cloud like the very elohim, and if you go with it, accepting the interplay between light and darkness, the mysterious concealment and revelation of forms, it is exhilerating beyond belief. In short, it induces the very 'de-centering' (and hence, mystically - recentering) celebrated in the best of W's poetry. Not surprisingly then, W speaks of 'breathings,' exhalations' and of 'vapours' etc. -flowing, fluidic images, quintessentially Wordsworth, yet so very Taoist! Perhaps more than any other person, Rudy has celebrated that atmosphere in his study of W's verse. You don't have to visit the Lake district to appreciate W's poetry - but, if you can get it organised one day, take the train to Bowness/Windermere, perusing W's work - and Rudy's commentary on the way, get a good hiking jacket/boots, head for the lakes, peaks and lonely fells - and enjoy the 'Tao of Wordsworth'!	2005-04-26
US	16056234	R22Z0KJNWBUVY2	0877288550	966734976	Sefer Yetzirah: The Book of Creation	Books	5	48	55	N	N	A remarkable text	There have been so many good reviews of this text, adding more praise seems enough. Other reviewers have given brief summaries of what Sefer Yetzirah is about. It is worth noting some things about the Kabbalistic tradition - generally.<br /><br /> I find it fascinating that the Kabbalistic tradition - of which this text is a part - has more or less remained inviolate<br /><br />from cheap proselytising (or until Madonna claimed to be into it!). In Jewish tradition, the person wishing to approach such things ought to be mature, if not middle aged, married - and a respected member of the community. It poses something of a contrast then, with traditions stressing celibacy and a remoteness from every-day life. Why is this? I think it is a very Kabbalistic point of view. Lived wisely, marriage and family life mirrors the cosmic process. This is not a dogmatic position - you can study the Kabbala as an unmarried, young person. Its just that The Kabbala and Sefer Yetzira translate deep meaning out of seemingly mundane or common processes.<br /><br /> You and your life, your loved ones, your neighbours, your co-workers - your neighbourhood - your planet, the cells in your body, the stars in space - are the material you must work with.<br /><br />Sefer Yetzirah means the 'book of formation' (creation implies a static process, unless we say living creation). Everything is this process, but we miss the links and connections, the hidden veins. Sefer Yetzirah is about becoming conscious of those veins and cosmic arteries, energising them, understanding 'formation' - living, formative elements.<br /><br /> Shalom!	2005-04-26
US	16056234	R376IG9Z14Y55K	080214098X	742704926	Swampland flowers: Letters and lectures of Zen Master Ta Hui [i.e. Tsung-kao] ; translated by Christopher Cleary (An Evergreen book ; E-696)	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Priceless, practical teachings!	I'm astonished that nobody has reviewed this excellent book, giving selected translations from Ta-hui's letters of encouragement to lay Buddhists. Ta-hui was one of the most noted Zen masters of Sung dynasty, a disciple of the equally well known master - Yuan Wu.  <br /> <br /> I recommend this book most highly, for while a 'patch-robed' monk himself, Ta-hui put his heart and soul into guiding lay-Buddhists, without a trace of arrogance in that respect. Ta-hui lived in troubled times (we often over-estimate the gulf between ourselves - and Chinese Buddhists of yore), and even when exiled for a time, Ta-hui continued to guide such lay-followers - by post! (Sung China actually had a fairly sophisticed mail service). <br /> <br /> Ta-hui's words of advice centre around the 'hua-tou' practice which he devised as a 'short-cut' method, although it wouldn't do to take that too literally, as in 'instant coffee' or the 'fast-fix.' It is evident from the 'drift' of the letters that Ta-hui expected his lay followers to exert themselves. The inspiring - and surprising thing, about Ta-hui's instruction, is that far from bemoaning the limitations of lay-life, he even makes the practice of the commited lay-Buddhist seem advantageous.As Ta Hui put it, the Buddhist monk has to 'break through' from the outside-in, whereas the lay-Buddhist has to 'break through' from the inside-out.  <br /> <br /> With scrupulous honesty, Ta-hui conceded that the monastic life lacks pressure, and in that sense, the motivation to see the practice through, can be weak. Conversely, lay-Buddhists or 'gentlemen of affairs' - as calls them, encounter all sorts of pressures and obstacles. However, seen aright, such pressures can be a spur to practice. For the lay-Buddhist, there is no monastic 'limbo' to permit slackening. As Ta-hui reiterates, again and again, it is precisely amid all the hustle and bustle of lay-life that one can build up the head of steam required for a real break-through. In short, he issaying that if we really make the 'hua tou' effective - in lay practice, it can generate a highly dynamic breakthrough (wu/satori).  <br /> <br /> This is a refreshing break from the obssession with institutionalised Zen, as if it had to be conducted in a Zendo, or some idealised environment.@Still, what Ta-hui has to say in this respect is perfectly 'orthodox' Buddhism. The title Cleary chose for his book (Swampland Flowers) alludes to the Vimalakirti Sutra, in which it is stated that the lotus grows in the mud, which is to say, the highest truth must be born amid the afflictions and delusions - elsewhere stating that 'when the mind is pure, the realm is pure. \\"  <br /> <br /> Ta-hui was a real bodhisattva, who lived 'engaged Buddhism' - as so many of our contemporaries now hope to re-state the case for it. Ta-hui was banished to a plague infested region of China, but far from shrinking in horror, he seems to have performed as a bodhisattva that way, too. According to Chinese history books,  Ta-hui criticised the administration of his day, and refused to curry favour with corrupt officials.His loyalties to the just were rewarded, and was later reinstated as Abbot of an eminent temple.  <br /> <br /> As a final remark, it is worth noting that Ta-hui objected to the over-blown literary tendencies of some of his peers, and actually destroyed the wood blocks for printing the Pi-Yen Lu (Jpn. Hekiganroku) or 'Blue Cliff Record,' feeling that it was attracting an inordinate and artificial 'zen taste.' Again, we see Ta-hui's integrity, because his own master - Yuan-wu, had appended the final verse commentaries to this text. No doubt, Ta-hui saw the relevance of those commentaries - as his master had written them. But, feeling that this material was being put to harmful uses - Ta-hui adopted a corrective, out of concern for his fellow Buddhists.  <br /> <br /> If Nobel prizes could be awarded retrospectively, I'd place Ta-hui at the top of the list. If authentic 'self-hood' means anything - in Buddhism (which it surely must, on the empirical level), Ta-hui certainly found it - and lived it.The 'hua-tou' method will not be everyone's cup of tea, but if you feel an affinity with Zen, don't overlook this book - and Ta-Hui. The honest, practical advice of Ta-hui, transcends the boundaries of time and space, all the clap-trap about adapting Buddhism to different needs. What he has to say is too vital and real, to be bothered by any of that.	2005-04-25
US	16056234	R2J4NPY2OURFGS	0679724346	524015341	Tao Te Ching: Text Only Edition	Books	5	3	6	N	N	A splendid edition of Lao Tzu!	Innovative when first issued - for its combination of b/w photographic images to enhance the feel of the Chinese text, this text still exudes a unique sense of 'presence.' Even the sequel by the same duo (Gia Fu Feng/Jane English)dealing with Chuang Tzu - couldn't match it. Such techniques have since become common place, but the Gia Fu Feng/Jane English Tao Te Ching still represents the best of its type, in my view.  <br /> <br /> I note the qualifying blurb 'Text Only' - attached to this reprint. I dearly hope that I am misguided, and that Random have not reprinted the book minus Jane's wonderful pictures. If the text has been robbed of its pictures, the editors at Random should be ashamed of themselves and apply for civil service posts, because it represents the ultimate in crass philistinism to sever these excellent pictures from the text as originally conceived.  <br /> <br /> Alas, I suspect that this act of editorial 'murder' has been perpetrated. Random-Century (the English wing of the company) has had a kind of publishers' 'death-wish' for years, cutting corners and costs, with tomfoolery of this sort. If you have to, order a good quality used copy of the text with the photos: you wont be disappointed. Compare it to the reprints, denuded of the pictures - and do the world a favour. Convey your sense of offended artistic sensibility and disgust to the publishers, who may yet return to the land of the living.        <br />	2005-04-21
US	16056234	R1RFK48W39XAGY	0394624173	579561031	Original Teachings of Ch'an Buddhism: Selected from the Transmission of the Lamp (English and Chinese Edition)	Books	5	27	27	N	N	A fascinating text	The Amazon.com 'blurb' for this book is a trifle vague. This material - translated by Chang Chung Yuan, a modern day Chinese scholar from Taiwan, was taken from the 'Ch'uan Teng Lu' (Jpn. Dentoroku) or 'Records of the 'Transmission of the Lamp,' edited by the Chinese Master Tao-yuan, published circa 1007.      This was the primary source D.T. Suzuki drew on for the Zen anecdotes found in his famous trilogy, and it has been a key source for Chinese Buddhist translators, too (Chang Chung Yuan evidently valued its sources). Lu K'uan Yu (cf. Ch'an and Zen Teachings, Series 2 - much recommended) also drew on Tao-yuan's 'Lamp' sources. So far as we can refer to 'original' Ch'an/Zen sources - in written form, they are to be found here. These are the masters who shaped a whole tradition, their sayings - in fragmentary form, appearing in texts like the Pi-yen Lu (Jpn. Hekiganroku) or 'Blue Cliff Record.' The 'Trans- mission of the Lamp' - presented here, gives us the background sources from which such sayings were culled. It is instructive to digest these sayings in their original context. Modern-day Zen students will probably focus on the chapters dealing with Lin Chi (Jpn. Rinzai), Tung-shan (Jpn. Tozan), Yun-men (Jpn. Ummon), Chao-chou (Jpn. Joshu) etc., although the chapters dealing with earlier masters such as Yung-chia (Jpn. Yoka) ought not to be skipped over, because they show the over-lap between Ch'an/Zen and the Madhyamika influenced T'ien-Tai (Jpn. Tendai) teachings. (The full length Chinese text of the 'Lamp' includes a number of T'ien-t'ai masters, virtually regarded as a branch or sub-sect of Ch'an).        Chang Chung Yuan's translations are for the most part reliable, his introductory discussions, frequently witty. In other respects, however, he seems to be a victim of certain contemporary prejudices. He adopts an almost 'Hegelian' approach to the development of Ch'an or Zen, suggesting that Yung-chia's T'ien-t'ai predilections were not quite up to the mark- or fell short of the later - 'developed' Ch'an, shorn of its more obvious 'Indian' elements, in favour of the uniquely Chinese Ch'an idioms - the prototypical kung-an (Jpn. koan). It is true that the development of Ch'an idioms gave the tradition its distinctive 'flavour' - but, there is no reason to suppose that Yung-chia's enlightenment was any less deep or thorough-going - than that of his successors. By and large, Chinese Buddhists take a more generous view of Yung-chia's teachings - including its T'ien-tai elements. Yung-chia was regarded as an enlightened master by no less than Hui-neng (Jpn. Eno),and the former was able to hold his own - in dialogue with the renowned Patriarch. Yung-chia's writings are studied in Chinese, Japanese and Korean temples to this day. Chang Chung Yuan has left the 'Indian' elements in Yung-chia's teaching less centrally related to Ch'an, than they might have been. By way of compensation, references to the Avatamsaka-sutra influenced Hua-yen (Jpn. Kegon) school, do re-establish the intuitive correspondence between the Chinese Ch'an idioms - and elements of 'Indian' Buddhist thought. Even so, the view of Ch'an/Zen that comes over in the translator's commentarial material, is predominantly that of the 'anti-scriptural' and iconoclastic face - regrettably exaggerated in some Western accounts of the tradition. The translator makes much of well known idioms, such as the saying that \\" 'ping chang hsin' (the every day mind) is the way\\" - without telling us much about what Ch'an/Zen practice actually involves. The translations per se - are fine, but they need to be digested in the light of more focused accounts of Ch'an practice.      For centuries, Tao-yuan's 'Transmission of the Lamp' was the earliest collection of Ch'an/Zen records available. An earlier collection - the Tsu T'ang Chi (Jpn. Sodoshu. Kor. Chodang chip)- 'Collected Records from the Ancestors Hall' was effectively lost - for centuries, until woodblock copies of the text were rediscovered at the Haein-sa temple in Korea. Subsequent comparison of these two texts has led to speculation that the 'Tang' sources contained in the 'Lamp' text have been creatively reconstructed - or presented in such a way, to bestow a sense of continuity to the tradition, not apparent in the earlier material - and thus, possibly invented. At the very least, the received scholarly opinion, is that the 'Tang' sources found in the 'Lamp' text have been reshaped by Sung editors.      While not quite the stuff of 'conspiracy theory -there is an element of 'over-kill' in these observations. It may well be that Tao-yuan and other editors 'tightened up' the material at their disposal and gave it more definite form. So what? Tang China wasn't provided with Jumbo jets, express trains or the inter-net. It took many, long years, to collect such Ch'an records - and, therefore, it is hardly surprising that the Tsu Tang Chi was incomplete. Indeed, the editors of the earlier collection acknowledged as much. Modern scholars have made rather much of the claim that Tao-yuan's text was structured to place greater emphasis upon the Ch'an tradition as a 'special transmission outside the scriptures'(chiao-wai pieh-chuan/Jpn. kyoge betsuden. Rediscovery of the 'lost' Tsu Tang Chi - which escaped the attention of later Buddhist editors, also refers to Ch'an as a'special transmission.' On reflection, modern scholars seem prone to worry over-much about such 'problems.' If Tao-yuan's 'Lamp' text was tampered with, to strengthen the position of the Ch'an school - as some would argue, why did the Chinese monk-editors concerned leave the T'ien-tai influences so conspicuously in place? Other masters (e.g. Yung-ming) featured in Tao-yuan's 'Lamp' text, evidently did not see the 'special transmission' (pieh chuan)as antithetical to the sutra-based teachings. Albert Welter deserves credit, for emphasizing this complementary view. Moreover, the Chuan Teng Lu contains Tsung Mi's critique of theperceived dangers associated with the Hung-chou school, the very school likely to be priviliged by the extreme advocates of the 'pieh-chuan'(Jpn. betsuden)or 'special transmission.' Hence, it begs a number of questions to suggest that the Chuan Teng Lu has been 'doctored' in the way proposed. In fact, on close examination, the Chuan Teng is anything but a tidy, doctored text. It has healthy, rough edges, and to my way of thinking, that shows a distinct lack of guile. So far as they go, the records in the Chuan Teng Lu give us the flavour of Ch'an - in its heyday. They are more complete than those of the Tsu Tang Chi, and thus constitute the best source to consult for accounts of Ch'an teaching in the hands of its most able exponents. We ought to remember the time-frame required, to collect such records from temples, scattered throughout the key Ch'an centres of China. Savour these Ch'an sayings - until they have exhausted their purpose. They make excellent spurs for practice.	2005-04-13
US	16056234	R3AE3R9VJMCH4J	0195117492	420256612	The Koan: Texts and Contexts in Zen Buddhism	Books	3	24	35	N	N	Interesting, but problematic	Touted - in places, as the most definitive study of the Zen Koan to date - in Western sources, I would hesitate to accord such status to this book, not least the idea that it has supplanted Zen Dust (Miura/Sasaki). While certainly interesting , this study is not quite the innovative venture promised in the cover blurb - and, of the eleven chapters in its pages, the final entry by Sogen Hori, a practicing Zen monk, left me with the most misgivings (I explain why, later in this review). It might be useful to list chapter headings, noting the focus of the contributors. The text opens with an Introduction by Stephen Heine and Dale S. Wright.      Chapter 1.The Form and Function of Koan Literature.                 -T. Griffith Foulk.     Chapter 2. The Antecedents of Encounter Dialogue in                Chinese Chan Buddhism.                - John R. Macrae     Chapter 3. Mahakasyapa's Smile: Silent Transmission                  and the Kung-an (Koan) tradition.               - Albert Welter.     Chapter 4. Kung-an Ch'an and the Tsung-men tung                  yao chi.                - Ishii Shudo.    Chapter 5.    Visions, Divisions, Revisions. The                Encounter between Iconoclasm and                Supernaturalism in Koan cases about                Mt. Wu-tai.                - Stephen Heine.     Chapter 6.   \\"Before the Empty Aeon\\" versus                \\"A Dog has no Buddha-nature. \\"                 Kung-an use in the Ts'ao-tung                tradition and Ta-hui's Kung-an                Introspection Ch'an.                 - Morten Schlutter.    Chapter 7.    Koan History: Transformative                Language in Chinese Buddhist                Thought.                 - Dale. S. Wright.     Chapter 8.    Ikkyu and Koans.                 - Alexander Kabanoff    Chapter 9.     Transmission of the Kirigami                (Secret Initiation Documents):                 A Soto Practice in Medieval                 Japan.                 - Ishikawa Rikizan.Chapter 10.    Emerging from Non-duality.                 Koan Practice in the Rinzai                 Tradition since Hakuin.                 - Michel Mohr.     Chapter 11.    Koan and Kensho in the                 Rinzai Zen Curriculum.                  - G. Victor Sogen Hori.      As the title suggests (The Zen Koan: Texts and Contexts) the contributors to this study are, for the most part, working with the hypothesis that koans are 'textually' based entities, even if ultimately related to a supra-textual (i.e. experiential) context. Besides John MacRae's essay (Chapter 2) dealing with the Antecedents of the Encounter Dialogue in Ch'an Buddhism, we learn relatively little about the background to the Zen wen-ta/ mondo which provided the basis for kung-an/koan texts. We might note that for the early Zen Buddhists, it was axiomatic \\"not to speak too plainly \\" (pu shuo pu), their way being to teach in a purely spontaneous manner - direct pointing, without reference to fixed study programmes, texts. The content of such dialogues became the basis for the kung-an/koan. The Zen way of 'commenting' - 'capping' one phrase or remark - with another, gave us the so called Zen 'capping phrases' (jakugo). Both sound familiar enough, but we must recognise that in its original context, this did not mean working with fixed texts like the Hekiganroku (Chin. Pi Yen Lu) - or 'capping phrasebooks.' What we hear of Zen 'koan' today reflects later developments, the signal difference being that - unlike the records found in the Chuan Teng Lu, Tsu Tang Chi etc., reflecting an earlier, oral tradition, the Mu-mon Kan, Pi-yen Lu etc., had been conceived as 'literary' products from the start. No doubt, John MacRae would hasten to add that even the earliest records have been re-worked, which is probably true. Still, the material was derived from 'dialogues' - and didn't begin life as polished works of art.             Alas, the opening chapter by T. Griffith Foulk (Form and Function of Koan Literature)barely rises above a few generalisations. Isshi Shudo's essay (Chapter 4)amounts to a series of textual notes and cross references, set out to show that the 'Tsung-men T'ung Yao chi' (Jpn. Shumontoyoshu) had a formative influence upon more well known sources e.g., the Wu-men Kuan (Jpn. Mumonkan), Pi-yen Lu (Jpn. Hekiganroku). Isshi's essay opens with a rule-of-thumb distinction, identifying Tang Chan with 'intrinsic  enlightenment' (pen-chueh) and Sung Chan with 'acquired enlightenment' (shih chueh). It must be said that - stated in such polarised terms, such distinctions would have meant little to Chinese Buddhists of the Tang/Sung (or Japanese masters such as Hakuin, for the matter). One of the 'straw men' of Japanese Buddhist scholasticism - this distinction has given rise to hopelessly dichotomised views - winning fresh notoriety in the hands of the 'Critical Buddhist' fraternity.' In practical terms, isolating such idioms makes about as much sense as trying to understand the 'Sho' and the 'Hen' of the Zen Go-I (Five Ranks) in isolation. Reliable sources show that Zen training necessarily involves both aspects(without 'pen-chueh' [inherent enlightenment]- there can be no 'shih-chueh' [experiential enlightenment], and vice versa. Given all the attention paid to 'language' in this book, viz. the koan, one might have expected more focus on the practical relevance of such idioms.      Albert Welter's essay (Chapter 3) was useful, noting the role of Yung-ming and Wu-yueh Ch'an, making better sense of the inter-face between scriptural Buddhism, orality - and the ultimately ineffable nature of totality. Morten Schlutter's essay (Chapter 6) focused on the tensions affecting Zen practice in the Sung - happily, playing down the 'polemical' tension between the Lin-chi and Ts'ao-tung schools, exploring the constructive interface between them.      Surprisingly, only one chapter in this book (Mohr's, Chapter 10) touched on what is arguably the most disputed questionin contemporary Rinzai Zen practice - namely, the status of the Rinzai Zen 'Ken-ge,' 'capping phrases' (jakugo) and Hakuin's putative role in that regard. Mohr casts a sceptical eye on the matter. Mohr's essay promised to be engaging, with observations about Hakuin's classification of koan, Torei's views etc. Hakuin's comments were well worth assessing at length - but, Mohr's essay digresses into background issues just where one might have expected the focus on Hakuin to continue (the emergence of the Obaku school is mentioned, but only enough to act as disruptive interlude. The digressions on Gattegno's theory of education had but slender bearing on the Buddhist topics at hand). A propos Hakuin's interest in Taoist 'nai-kan' methods (which, after all, restored the Master's health), Mohr joins in the academic chorus, 'poo-pooing' Hakuin's mention of Hakuyushi - the Taoist figure he claimed to have met in Shirakawa. However, earnest Japanese Buddhist biographers such as Rikukawa Taiun, have confirmed Hakuin's account, related in the Yasenkanna. Twelve years ago, there was still a Dojo on the mountain road between Shirawkawa and Hiei-zan, full of memorabilia, bokuseki etc. relating to Hakuin's meeting with Hakuyushi. The incumbent was 96 years old, and certainly regarded Hakuin's meeting with Hakuyushi as genuine. (after all, the Dojo was full of artifacts, bokuseki etc. The incumbent has since passed on, the building no longer functions as a Dojo, but the reviewer saw these things for himself. Yasenkanna is not 'definitely fiction' - as Mohr asserts, and Hakuin did not confess that he made the story up - as Mohr claims. When Hakuin stated, in his postface to the Yasenkanna (1757) that he \\"had not set up (mokeru) the story (of Hakuyushi) for gifted people who had realised the truth in a single hammer blow\\" - he was not defining the story as an expedient fable, but qualifying the point that those who had made significant advances in Zen training could dispense with what he had to say about 'nai-kan' and Hakuyushi's teaching. As Mohr's essay otherwise makes clear, Hakuin retained an interest in such practices, and continued to teach them to his followers - if needed. (For the record, the Shisendo [Hall of Immortal Poets] in Shirakawa, formerly Ishikawa Jozan's home, is dedicated to Chinese poets. In the Tokugawa, the toshukan there was full of Chinese texts, including Taoist manuals, and there is nothing odd in the idea that Ishikawa Jishun [nom de plume, Hakuyushi] availed himself of its resources).       Closer attention could have been paid to the moot question of Hakuin's role in devising fixed 'koan systems' and attendant ken-ge etc. Mohr expresses caution over Hakuin's alleged contribution to the latter (i.e. fixed ken-ge), but in view of known sources such as the Keiso dokuzui (1756) and Keiso dokuzui shui (1759), it was a little bold for Mohr to assert (p.265) that \\"neither Hakuin's nor his direct disciples' works mention an explicit sequence of koans \\" for on the very same page (first para.), Mohr noted the sequential function of the 'hosshin' and 'nanto' koans, outlined by Hakuin in Sokkoroku kaien fusetsu (which simply reiterates Hakuin's position in the other works I have noted). Still, Mohr is right in the sense that Hakuin refers not so much to specific, individual koan, but rather, to complexes  of koan which fulfil a certain function - vis-a-vis the maturation of Zen practice. Hence, if Mohr is saying that Hakuin wasn't a meticulous drudge who devised Zen ken-ge with a rigid bearing on a student's 'kyogai' or situational maturation of insight- well, I would have to agree. Hakuin wasn't that dull!      Ironically, the one chapter contributed by a practicing Rinzai Zen monk (Chapter 11, by Sogen Hori), struck me as the most problematic. That Hori describes Rinzai Zen training as a 'curriculum' - makes his position clear. It is worth noting that Master Rinzai knew nothing of a 'curriculum' - as Hori presents it. Whatkind of 'curriculum' is Rinzai's 'true man of no fixed position' (wu wei chen-jen)?       While undoubtedly correct in pointing out that Zen does not eschew all use of language, and indeed, developed a highly refined literary genre of its own, Hori seems to be privileging language in ways which often seem alien to the spirit of the tradition. While the best Zen masters have utilised language with consummate skill, I would question Hori's notion that Zen sets us free 'within language.' Would it not be more accurate to say that 'Zen words' operate on the bordeline between the describable, and the indescribable, bringing out meta-linguistic potentialities. Every Zen comment carries with it what Hans George Gadamer called 'the infinity of the unsaid.'       The 'elusive' nature of such dialogues has been likened to the free motion of pearls on a tray - round, rolling, slippery and slick, and as 'literary' specimens, they become something else. Ostensibly, Hori's tastes reflect the atmosphere of the so called 'wen-tzu chan' or 'literary chan' of the Sung - which, in many ways, went hand-in-hand with the introduction - to Japan, of texts like the Hekiganroku. The other side of the picture - downplayed by Hori, is that Ta-hui, an eminent master Lin-chi (Rinzai) Master in Sung China, burnt the printing blocks for the 'Blue Cliff Record (Hekiganroku), feeling that it encouraged an unhealthy predilection for literary habits. This is often obscured by the fact that - like Hakuin after him, Ta-hui was a vigorous opponent of the so-called 'mokusho zen' (silent illumination Zen) - and, as such, enlisted as a champion of 'kanna' (introspecting the word) Zen or 'koan Zen. However, Ta-hui opposed the excesses of 'koan-zen' just as vigorously as he had opposed the more lifeless interpretations of 'silent illumination.' Topics like this can scarcely be examined in a book review, but suffice it to say that Hori has only given us one side of the story. He has privileged 'wen-tzu chan' and seems relucant to consider its defecits. In his full length work, Zen Sand (a translation of Zen 'capping phrases' with introductory chapters outlining the background of Rinzai Zen, see my Amazon.com review), Hori says (p. 70): \\"despite the formalisation and heavy institutional framework. . .modern Japanese Rinzai koan practice is still easily recognisable as kan-hua meditation \\" - but, insofar as Ta-hui eschewed the need to examine whole series of koan, as Hori advocates it - this claim begs a number of questions. Borrowing Hee Jin Kim's definitions,  Hori contrasts the 'instrumentalist' view of the koan with a 'realisational' model, the former alluding to kensho/satori as a shattering transcendental insight, rising above conditioned relativities, while the latter takes shape as a transformative process - interacting with the world of conditioned relativities. While Hori acknowledges that both 'models' are valid, he gets precariously close to rejecting the accepted understanding of the former - as a distortion, generated by modern interpreters (e.g. Suzuki and those influenced by him). But this overlooks the fact that such initial breakthrough experiences are related in traditional accounts. Even Dogen had his experience of 'shinjin datsuraku.' Hori fleshes out his theories by appealing to Western sources (e.g. Kasulis, Katz, Rosemont, Wright) - or Hee Jin Kim, whose idiosyncratic views are in many ways, an indirect critique of Rinzai Zen.  Hori rejects notions of Zen as an access to 'pure consciousness' (in Buddhist terms - 'Mind Only') explaining it away as too 'Cartesian' - but, when all is said and done, the teaching of 'Mind Only' isn't from Descartes, but a well known aspect of Mahayana Buddhism articulated in the Lankavatara, Surangama Sutra etc.  It is still there, in Hui-neng's remark to the two monks, debating whether it is the wind or the banner which moves (\\"It is neither the wind nor banner that moves, but the Venerable Sirs' minds which move\\" etc.). I cant afford to go into this here, but it strikes me that Hori's ideas are too empirical and body centered. Hori's account reflects the preconceptions or fashions of Western academia, e.g. describing certain koan situations in terms of a simple, 'performative' function. This may satisfy existentialists, phenomenologists etc. - but, in Zen, the 'yu' (Chin. 'yung') or 'function' aspect refers not to the physical body per se (the 'guest'), but the unconditioned Buddha-nature (or 'host') working through it. One wonders why Hori didn't turn to Hakuin, rather than Western writers, whose conceptions seem but distantly related to the demands of Zen practice. Reference to the Keiso Dokuzui - especially the section dealing with the Tozan Go-I (Five Ranks) would have left us better equipped to understand the Buddhist perspective on key issues raised by Hori. Again, Hakuin's comments on the Surangama Sutra, dealing with the araya-shiki (alaya-vijnana) would have lent clarity to such topics. Hori sees 'pure consciousness' as a problem, even a privative definition, but when Buddhists use the term 'inconceivable (pu ke se yi), it is with a sense of wonder - hence, they use the term 'miao-yu' or 'marvellous existence' - because it defies description. Albert Welter (Chapter 3) - a 'mere academic'- if you'll forgive the term, astutely notes that Master Wu-men (Jpn. Mumon)likened the state of Zen awakening to that of a deaf mute who had experienced a dream, utterly unable to communicate it to anyone. Of course, even master Wu-men left us some words! Hori introduces another questionable analogy from Western philosophy, stating that 'pure consciousness' is - to Buddhism, what 'the state of nature' is to Western social philosophy - i.e. something you can never discover, in fact. But the analogy is inaccurate. Unlike the hypothetical 'state of nature' - prior to all social convention, which can never be found, the unconditioned (Unborn) Mind-nature is always there. This doesn't make the phenomenal world into a colourless blank, of course, and it is surely a matter of common sense that 'practice' must translate meaning into the phenomenal side of our existence. Nobody is enlightened because of the body, but nobody can find enlightenment without one. Still, to put it rather unprosaically, why privilege what Buddhism calls the 'skin bag'?        That said, it must be admitted that the 'realisational' aspect does get played down in some contemporary accounts of Zen - and in that sense, Hori's remarks are a corrective. Not only Ta-hui, but even Yuan-wu sometimes speak as if the initial 'breakthough' experience were everything - the successful use of a single koan to this end - explaining all others (Yuan-wu Hsin Yao 3,HTC 120. 379b14-15). Ta-Hui declared that \\"the 'living word' or phrase (huo-chu) was that in which no further discursive meaning could be found, whereas the 'dead word' (ssu chu) or phrase, is that which leads to further, discursive activity.\\" It is probably true to say that the initial breakthrough is the most vital step, for without it, there is nothing to 'mature' in the realisational model. Still, so far as koan are used in the context of post-satori training, they are surely not functioning in the same way as the 'initial' koan. Even so, it would be a misunderstanding to assume that such koan herald a return to conventional language per se. 'Seeing the mountains again' - as mountains, after 'not seeing them as mountains' -is a wholly different way of seeing mountains. Sogen frequently refers to the 'hori/dori' of koan practice, as if it were amenable to language and reason in the conventional sense - but, if so, why hasn't a single Zen master to date, tried to 'explain it all' - in simple prose? Kim borrowed the term 'hori/dori' (reason of the way/reason of the Dharma) from Dogen. Dogen's use of this term had a Buddhist context, and it is tendentious to discuss it as if the 'ri' denoted anything like 'reason' - as known to us sincethe 18th c 'Age of Reason.' Hori knows very well that it doesn't belong in that category - but, the drift of his remarks frequently gives the impression that it does. Hori has leaned heavily on Kim's account, and Kim's account has more or less dismissed the so called 'instrumentalist' function of the koan. As such, it is a problematic model to appropriate for an account of kensho in the context of Rinzai Zen. Kapleau's account in the 'Three Pillars of Zen' makes more sense of the shifts of emphasis involved here, just as Chinese Buddhists distinguish between 'chieh-wu' or satori - the initial breakthrough insight - and further insights, culminating in 'cheng wu' or complete enlightenment.         In Sogen Hori's 'Zen Sand' cited above, we find a glaring problem in the introductory chapters (p. 82), where we are told that texts like the Zenrinkushu (ZRKS)were probably rendered redundant by the reforms of Hakuin, whose 'ken-ge' were written after Ijushi compiled the Zenrinkushu. Hori then wobbles, declaring that such ken-ge and attendant reforms may not have been Hakuin's at all, but just those of a certain 'someone.' In the next few lines, he swings back into the affirmative again, referring to such reforms as 'Hakuin's.' To say the least, this is a shaky way to handle sources of tradition. What would it mean, to simply 'dump' the Zenrinkushu, because of the reforms of a certain someone - 'maybe' Hakuin, maybe not? And what is it about other Zen phrasebooks, that would make them more relevant than the ZRKS? They draw on much the same material -e.g. Tang/Sung sources, and from that point of view, it makes little difference how you re-arrange the entries, deleting a phrase here, entering a phrase there. The 'standard' Zen phrasebooks duplicate each other to such an extent, there seems little point in making a song and dance about which version to use. In one sense, it's all 'snow falling in the well.' Roshis may prefer this or that version - but, it isn't a big deal. It would have been useful if at least one chapter of this book, had been entirely devoted to the role of Zen capping phrases/ books, and the attendant role of Zen 'ken-ge' - regrettably, left uncertain in this study. Like the secret 'Kirigami' in Soto Zen (cf. Ishikawa's essay, Chapter 9), this is where the Rinzai school gets a bit silly, at times. 'Ken-ge' are guidelines, if you like, giving certain pointers for people working on koan. Often as not regarded as 'secret' - or at least restricted, they convey a sense of being 'privy' to certain 'in-house' methods and documents. While the ken-ge probably originated as the fruit of genuine advice - either set down by an eminent master in person, or put in note form - by disciples, it is doubtful whether they were meant to be 'fixed' and thereafter regarded as immutable guidelines. Given the uncertainty surrounding the origin of such ken-ge, it seems questionable to regard them as 'Hakuin's.' Hakuin was unusually prolific and left us a weighty body of teachings, in written form. They exude an open-ness and represent anything but a 'closeted' nest of secret teachings.      Whatever Hakuin's achievements - by way of reform, and despite the evident merit of successors such as Torei, post-Hakuin Rinzai Zen has been clouded by bouts of rigid formalism that scarcely live up to the dynamic spirit of the great Tokugawa master. It seems much more likely that the so-called 'Hakuin no ken-ge' were produced by successors in the Takuju Kosen/Inzan Ien lines (Mohr suggests as much, himself). Without clarifying this point, Hakuin may well be held to blame for the rigidity often associated with such material. Indeed, this was the position taken by Fukunaga Shuho in his 'Gendai Soji-zen Hyoron,' (A Critique of Modern-day Pseudo-zen), published in 1926. Unofficially suppressed, it was obviously too near the knuckle, for some people. Divided into two portions - one setting out the 'curriculum' of Rinzai study - the other, a lengthy, critical analysis of its contents, it left little doubt that some (but by no means all) of the contemporary Rinzai lines were ensnared in lifeless formalism. The pity of it, is that Fukunaga attributed it all to the influence of Hakuin, when it is by no means certain that Hakuin condoned it - or even knew anything about it. Mohr and Hori both give the impression that it is difficult to determine the content of 'in-house' material used by Takuju Kosen/Inzan Ien lines, but Fukunaga's text gave a very precise account of it. When Yoel Hoffmann translated the portion used for Zen training (ignoring Fukunaga's critical analysis in the second part), it was published (cf.'The Sound of One Hand') with a foreword by an eminent Roshi, authorising it as a genuine document, with the hope that it would one day rank as a classic, alongside the Hekiganroku and Mumonkan. Sogen Hori presented a snippet of allied material in the text under review (p.p. 290-291)but given the absurdly 'rehearsed' nature of such material, it seems unlikely to acquire fame as a classic. Uncomfortably, however, such material evidently 'cuts the mustard' with some roshis (photocopies of such material have been sold 'under the counter' in Buddhist bookshops, as a kind of crib for Zen trainees)and one wonders where 'Hakuin' stands in all this? Such matters could profitably have been considered in studies like the text under review, so I have raised them, anyway.      What Hori means by a 'curriculum' in Rinzai Zen, appears in the explanatory notes (Zen Sand, pp. 32-33) showing how Rinzai's 'four discernments' (or rather - 'strippings' -shi liao chien/Shiryoken) break down into twenty seven component parts, with the addition of 'capping phrases,' 'nenro' verses etc. But in its original context, there were simply the 'four discernments' - the additional components being by no means essential.I wouldn't wish to rule out the practice of throwing Rinzai's teaching into a matrix of this sort - but, at times, you get the feeling that such devices have become cumbersome, obscuring, rather than amplifying the core material. Again, Hori notes that Tozan's Go-I (Five Ranks) breaks down into 47 component parts. Not all Japanese Roshis adopt such a prolix attitude. To be fair, Hori does touch on the problem of formalism. In Zen Sand, he noted the 'touchy' atmosphere surrounding the final components of the 'Rinzai curriculum' -  viz., whether it ought to conclude with the 'goi jujukin' (five ranks and ten grave precepts), or be taken a stage further - known as 'Kojo' (translated as as -'directed upwards' by Hori). In Japan, this issue has led to some pointed argumentation - if not dogmatic rigidity. In Tang parlance, 'kojo' simply meant the 'upward way' or the vertical, transcendental dimension of insight, as against the horizontal. Kojo is now taken to mean a further refinement of practice-beyond practice. It ought not to be a problem, because the Tozan Go-I already presupposes that the final stage is, in effect, a stage of no-stage - similarly perfecting the practice-beyond practice. Why get so obssessive about terminology? In Western Zen centres, (Japanese) Zen Roshis seem more flexible, even using 'Alice in Wonderland' as a source for 'capping phrases.' The point is, what happens to the 'spontaneity' of Zen, when it becomes an exercise in being terribly fastidious over ken-ge, linked 'capping phrases' etc.? Isn't it a bit like spending life, walking around in somebody else's shoes? Roshi's of Hakuin's ilk wouldn't have let it become anything of the sort. One final criticism: given the number of Zen idioms cited in this text, it would have been helpful to find them noted in kanji form somewhere.         It must be admitted that the linear-historical/empirical- objective standpoint - of academia, doesn't dovetail that well, with the 'host' position - taken in Zen training. In a certain sense, they cancel each other out. One has nowhere to go, the other is always restless. If there is a bridge between the indescribable horizons of Zen - and the use of words, rational discourse has a limited role, taken samvrti-satya. If there is a 'reason of the way' (do-ri), it unfolds according to what Pang-yen termed the 'language of the Unborn,' and a skilful use of 'turning words' or phrases (chuan-yu). The people who made Chan/Zen what it was, maintained that we should not try to speak too plainly. This love-hate relationship between Zen and 'words' has always been there.  We hear that Yun-men (Jpn. Ummon) used to chase people out of his temple, if he found them setting his words down in writing. Yet he left us plenty of words. One explanation, is that they were recorded surreptitiously, by a monk wearing a paper robe. I'll settle for the 'itchy' love-hate relationship, in which words are loaded with meaning - but ultimately point beyond the bounds of the describable. Unlike Martin Heidegger, Zen Buddhists do not regard 'language as the house of being.' And - 'who' is at home, anyway?	2005-04-13
US	16056234	RY6FEYQI2KZB3	0791417735	424029305	Dogen and the Koan Tradition: A Tale of Two Shobogenzo Texts (S U N Y SERIES IN PHILOSOPHY AND PSYCHOTHERAPY)	Books	5	17	24	N	N	Cosmic Constipation	If the price reflected the value of the book, I'd have to give it five stars. Otherwise, I'd hesitate to give it half a star. I am not disapproving when it comes to educated English, but this book is atrocious to read. Its style seems less like academic prose, and more like academic pose. It seems like murdering Dogen, to me. There is surely a limit to the degree of academic jargon you can bring to the task of surveying a tradition, for which it was axiomatic \\"not to speak too plainly\\" (pu shuo pu).      P.S. Heine's contributions elsewhere(not least 'The Koan:Texts and Contexts. The Zen Canon etc.) are meaningful and valuable. I didn't find those laboured. Alas, the present work left me feeling that I was lifting dumbells with my eyeballs. In short, as regards the hermeneutical horizons of the two textual properties or modules under current evaluation, there were certainly infrastructural resemblances to the literary proclivities of the Japanese cenobite, productive of the key Buddhological source materials at hand. However, the excruciatingly didactic, pedagogical patterns and profusion of multi-complex, multivalenced academic jargon, made me somewhat catatonic, and in an irrational upsurge of neuromuscular exertion, mediated through the biceps and triceps,  the said tome ullulated through the ambient ether, and thus found itself laying, functionally redundant, in a circular waste receptacle, pending further functional assignments, morphologically modified in the phenomenological sense, as waste paper.	2005-04-13
US	16056234	RFESGB2PK2JT5	1570624763	783999180	The Hundred Thousand Songs of Milarepa: The Life-Story and Teaching of the Greatest Poet-Saint Ever to Appear in the History of Buddhism	Books	5	25	25	N	N	An inspired - and inspiring translation	No point in trying to 'cap' the other reviews, which have given Chang's translation the credit it deserves. Much is the pity, then, that certain 'Tibetophile' snobs have faulted Chang's work - discriminating, it seems, purely because (a) Chang was Chinese, not Tibetan - and (b), working as an academic in an American University. I had the pleasure of corresponding with Chang while at Pen State Uni. 'Garma' Chang was a gifted translator, and no mere dry academic. He had practised with Lama Kung Ka -among others, and had the degree of Cha-gyur Khan-po conferred upon him, which means something like 'Master Interpreter/translator of the Tradition' - a background few academics have had to support their work.  <br /> <br /> Milarepa's enlightenment-poems meant something real and vital to the translator, who put his heart into the task of turning them into pellucid, expressive English. By the same token, Chang's study of the Hua-Yen (cf. The Buddhist Teaching of Totality) was permeated with the lively insight of one who had transmuted the living meaning of Buddhism from the ore of tradition. Chang Hsien-sheng came from a generation of Chinese Buddhists who knew the Dharma well, his Buddhist background and excellent command of English idioms making him an ideal translator. Chang's version of 'The Hundred Thousand Songs of Milarepa' was much more than a 'translation' - it was a labour of love, conveying well the whole spirit of Milarepa's life and work.This book conveys kalyanamitrata in the truest sense of the term. Highly recommended.	2005-04-12
US	16056234	R1UNAVQB6EYQPE	0965320863	327942252	Domestic Tranquility: A Brief Against Feminism	Books	5	35	44	N	N	Worth serious consideration	Too many reviewers seem to have missed the point, blaming Ms. Graglia for her professional career/background, seeing it as hypocrisy. Anyone who cares about family life must surely see that hard-line, ideological 'feminism' has done as much damage to women - as anything 'men' have perpetrated, taken at their most insensitive extremes.  <br /> <br /> There is something deep, meaningful and spiritual, about being a 'home-maker' - which ought not to have been denigrated as the philosophy of the female sucker. Written as a compensatory reaction to an extreme attitude, Ms. Graglia's book sometimes seems to be ignoring the positive, intelligent side of feminism. What she combats - is the extreme form of feminism - thus defending the discredited role of the homemaker. While some would call it an ideologically driven caricature - perpetrated by men, there does seem to be something about women which makes them better equipped, constitutionally, to function as homemakers. As a spiritual quality, this gives women an almost bodhisattvic character, a source of solace for the whole family.  <br /> <br /> I think of the Blues number \\"aint no sunshine when she's gone. . .when she goes away, a house is not a home\\" etc. Some would crucify me for saying so, but I feel it takes a woman in the house to create that magic sense of blessing, and it is very real. I thank all the gods, whenever I enter a home, and still feel that special aura that only a woman can bestow upon bricks and mortar. Deep down, most guys know its something special. I say this with humility, not as something taken for granted. <br /> <br /> As a supplement to Ms. Graglia's book, I recommend Esther Harding's books 'The Way of All Women\\" - and 'Women's Mysteries' which place the'feminine' in its cosmic context. <br />In recent decades, it has become fashionable to talk about 'biological traps' etc.@We might as well talk about gravity as a 'trap' - but, without it, we could not live. What binds us to the earth alsoroots us, spiritually. Nature is our nurse, not our slave-master. <br />    <br /> Why not review the whole situation? The more twisted per-spectives on this - hinge on rather limited, materialistic definitions. As more than a few reviewers have pointed out, many working-women, become as such, because of financial pressures.In that sense, perhaps we ought to question the economics of a society,which robs women of the chance to be homemakers - if that's what they prefer. In this sense, it is not so much a case of men oppressing women, as the politicians, banks and financial institutions - oppressing families, and we should be more 'savvy' about it.They reap harvest from the misfortune of divided or fractured family lives.  <br /> <br /> We ought to consider that the difference between a 'house' and a 'home' - is that a 'home' means having time to share, and men ought to be able to spend more time with their kids, especially when the kids are young. It is doubly ironic, when both parents end up becoming relative strangers - to their own kids. Those early years are especially precious and formative, and there is something sick about any ideal that encourages such alienating habits. Though much denigrated and currently devalued, the family - with a homemaker, is a blessing.Potentialy, it is a sacred space between the individual - and the faceless mass of humanity. Be warned, all totalitarian systems, political and religious, have endeavoured to weaken the family. But it is part of great dance of life. Remember Crosby, Stills, Nash & Young@|'Teach Your Children Well'?	2005-04-12
US	16056234	R1PUGUUAE6EYAR	0375705104	53440924	The Way of Zen	Books	4	4	5	N	N	The Way of Watts	Along with Suzuki's work, this book was virtually required reading for a whole generation. It is inimitable Alan Watts material. The good thing about Alan was his ability to debunk the posturing which often passes for spirituality. He made the important point that trying to justify oneself - through Zen, is un-zenlike and therefore, technically stupid. <br /> <br /> However, when it comes to practical details, this text is a trifle misleading. Somewhere in its pages, Alan categorically stated that T'ang dynasty Zen monks did not practice Za-zen, as found in Zen temples today - declaring it to be an adjunct of the Sung Confucian education system, incorporated into Japanese temple life. Though the resources at Watts' disposal were somewhat limited - when this text was first written, at least two extant translations (e.g.@Huang Po's 'Discourses' and Hui Hai's 'Treatise on Sudden Awakening') made it clear that -  for Zen monks of the Tang dynasty, Za-zen was a regular part of their spiritual life. What we do find stated, in such sources, is a reminder not to take still immobility as the right state or end of the practice. Whether training in the Rinzai or the Soto tradition, few Westerners practicing Zen today will doubt that Za-zen is an essential part of the practice. If you want a readable, general introduction to Far-eastern thought - this is a good place to begin. It is best, perhaps, for its discussion of Zen in the context of Far-eastern art. In other respects, observations like those touched on above, will now make this work seem redundant.	2005-04-12
US	16056234	R2ZBPZM81BXOA9	0877739722	368421487	The Essential Teachings of Zen Master Hakuin	Books	5	21	22	N	N	A priceless contribution to Western Zen sources	Currently Professor of International Studies at Otani University in Kyoto and editor of 'The Eastern Buddhist,'Norman Waddell has made a name for himself with some sterling translations of Buddhist material('Unborn:.The Life & Teachings of Bankei.'Hakuin Zenji's 'Itsumadegusa' etc.). He has excelled himself with this latest endeavour, a translation of Hakuin Zenji's (1686-1769)'Sokko-roku Kaien Fusetsu' - a key text from the renowned reformer of Zen in the Tokugawa.<br /><br /> For convenience sake, Waddell has titled this work 'The Essential Teachings of Zen Master Hakuin.' It is certainly that, of course, but it shows Hakuin's indebtedness to his precursors, being Hakuin's commentary on the records of the Chinese Sung master Sokko (Chin. Hsi-keng, 1185-12699), more commonly known in Japanese Zen circles as Kido Chigu - or simply 'Kido.' Texts of this sort have been required reading for Zen students - as a spur to their training. Happily, this translation is the nearest you could get to reading the original text - and, as such, it will undoubtedly fulfil similar needs among Western Zen students.<br /><br /> Waddell has captured well the terse, relentless flow of Hakuin's thought - geared up to encourage Zen practice. As such, it will seem like being thrown at the deep end, to a reader taking a first glimpse into Zen material, but such was Hakuin's purpose. Seasoned practitioners will derive immense benefit from this text. The English translation, with extensive notes, appendices and index, amounts to a mere 137 pages, but so much energy has been compressed into Hakuin's words, this little text seems rather like one of those mysterious, tiny white stars, emitting radiation seemingly disproportionate to their size. In the hands of a less skilful translator, that effect would have been dissipated - but,Waddell has made Hakuin's words live, all over again, in this sterling piece of translation. The extensive notes and appendices are very helpful -without being tediousor cumbersome. I recommend this text to anyone, with a serious interest in Zen. It will take its place as a classic in Western Zen sources.	2005-04-05
US	16056234	R3DWJ16KFU3P1Q	0691029024	463435434	Chan Insights and Oversights	Books	5	18	23	N	N	Chan Oversight, rather than insights	It is hard to discount the praise of able scholars such as Martin Collcut,but this book deserves five stars - for sheer audacity! Like all spiritual traditions, the Ch'an (Zen) tradition has seen peaks of inspiration - and periods of decline, bringing formalism and rigidity.However, it begs a number of questions to suggest - as Bernard Faure does, that the lineages of the Ch'an tradition were fabricated to serve ideological purposes.<br /><br /> As with 'The Rhetoric of Immediacy' - Bernard Faure creates straw men, so that he can appear astute in spotting them. For example, he troubles himself to point out that we shouldn't identify 'Rinzai' and 'Soto' Zen - with the alleged split that occured between the 'Northern' and 'Southern' schools of Ch'an, but who said that we should? In traditional records such as the Chuan Teng Lu (Dentoroku), we find masters such as Ma-tsu and Shih-t'ou sending their followers back and forth between each other's temples. These were, if you like, the prototypical lineages which eventually became the 'Rinzai' and 'Soto' schools, and this open spirit prevailed in the lifetime of Lin-chi (Rinzai) and the two masters -Tung Shan and Ts'ao-shan (Tozan and Sozan) - with whom we now identify these schools. Hence, it is anachronistic and meaningless to suggest that there was any estrangement between them. At best, the seeds of such estrangement would have to be located in the Sung - with the temporary spat between Ta-hui and Hung Chih, but even that has been blown out of proportion, for Hung-chih actually entrusted Ta-hui with his affairs. Thus, Bernard Faure might have spared himself (and us) the anachronistic speculations, when the traditional sources are clear enough.<br /><br /> As for the 'post-modernist' -cum-'deconstructionist' agenda,<br /><br />its bearing upon the Ch'an/Zen tradition is by no means certain.<br /><br />While currently fashionable (everything has now been taken to bits!), one wonders whether masters the ilk of Lin-chi or Dogen need to be aided in this way. If Heidegger is anything to go by, having deconstructed Western philosophy, with nothing to say for the holocaust and the fate of 6 million jews, perhaps we ought to spot the difference between head games - and the spiritual quest - and not confuse the two. There is now a huge tome on sale, the size of a New York phone book, explicating the relationship between post-modern philosophy - and Zen.Thank you very much! So much for the Ch'an/Zen axiom 'pu shuo pu' . . .'not to speak too plainly'! Sorry, deconstructionists, but do us a favour; try some 'sitting' - and shut up!	2005-04-04
US	16056234	R16T1L3SUT8TK2	0415140382	790097153	Heidegger's Hidden Sources: East-Asian Influences on his Work	Books	3	12	27	N	N	Problematic	Like most other speculations concerning the nominal affinity between Heidegger's work and the eastern traditions (e.g.Taoism, Zen tc.), this book ignores fatal differences, chiefly, the way Heidegger privileged language. Heidegger called language \\"the house of being.\\" The Tao-te-ching opens by saying that 'the way that can be named is not the real way.' Vimalakirti's 'thunderous silence' makes the Buddhist position clear. For Buddhism and Taoism, language isn't the house of being. It is a transient guest, chirping on the doorstep. <br /> <br /> Heidegger's notion of Da-sein - of being thrown in the world is still very subjective. When he talks about dasein in terms of being-towards death, death as the ultimate possibility of da-sein, he is still talking about the temporal man. A Zen master would say: 'Why wait, why not die right now (spiritually, and attain the greater life)? \\"  Heidegger's notion of 'truth' in terms of the 'lichtung' or lighting of being - seeing that what emerges, as on occasion for the discovery of truth, is never the object, but remains hidden, is interesting, but was it new? Eckhart - a Christian, had made use of negations (the 'nicht'- even double negations (nihtes-nihte, much like the Buddhist sunya-sunyata) - but, Heidegger rejected the tradition of which Eckhart had been a part.  <br /> <br /> It is probably true to say that Heidegger exhibited a passing interest for Taoist/Buddhist thought. There is the apochrypal story of Karl Jaspers finding Heidegger perusing a copy Suzuki's work, when calling on the philosopher at his Black Forest retreat. So the story goes, Heidegger allegedly remarked at the time: \\"If I understand this man aright, this is what I have been trying to say all my life. . .\\" <br /> <br /> But let's not kid ourselves here. What did 'Taoism' or 'Zen' have to do with Heidegger's references to 'die volk' and all the 'blut und boden' of Nazi German philosophy, which Heidegger supported during its rise in the 1930's and throughout WW2? When push came to shove, Heidegger affirmed that there were only two languages in the world capable of handling and conveying philosophical insight - namely, Greek and German. This is cultural fascism. It went hand-in-hand with Heidegger's social and racist fascism, so lets not get too dewy eyed about 'Marty' - as one reviewer called him. To the end of his life, he never expressed remorse over his support for the Nazi party and its part in the extermination of 6 million Jews. That seems a little rich, from a philosopher who spent most of his life accusing the rest of humanity of being fatefully asleep. And why this stubborn blindness? Well - take stock of the false pathos behind Heidegger's philosophy, his mythologising over the West as the land of evening (abendland), of tragic decline and sinking suns. Heidegger spent too much time crying into  his philosophical schnapps to penetrate 'eastern' wisdom.       <br />By the way, please don't take these remarks as 'anti-German' in nature. The reviewer has Austrian (German) blood on his mother's side, and loves decent German literature and philo-sophy. Meister Eckhart is probably the closest link between <br />Taoism/Zen - and the German spirit. D.T. Suzuki spotted the affinity, and even penned Eckhartian references into his <br />personal copy of the Rinzai Roku. Learn something! Eckhart was influenced by (Neo) Platonism, and Plato was Heidegger's chief philosophical 'whipping boy.' So, who's asleep . . .and who's awake? 'What's been did, what's been hid'?   <br />  <br />	2005-04-04
US	16056234	RSLS9FH7YXBID	0691029636	916993255	The Rhetoric of Immediacy: A Cultural Critique of Chan/Zen Buddhism	Books	2	9	22	N	N	Perhaps, just rhetoric!	Despite the praise heaped on this text, I can't help feeling that Bernard Faure has been constructing the 'straw men' other readers have spotted. It is by no means certain that the Ch'an (Zen) tradition has functioned as Faure suggests. Why, for instance, set up the 'anti-scriptural'  argument - only to concede - on proper investigation, that it is a myth? There are enough commentaries - on the sutras, by Zen monks, to make this sort of thing seem pointless. Sorry, but lets place trust in those deluded masters of old - and stay unenlightened, Faure style.	2005-04-04
US	16056234	R3AQJF5N20DL8H	1573226564	99488062	Buddhism Without Beliefs: A Contemporary Guide to Awakening	Books	3	40	49	N	N	How to eat your cake - and keep it	Why only three stars - after all the five-star praise? The 'thumbs down' reviews seem to hinge upon a single weakness, namely, the author's stress upon the ultimate uselessness of formal religion - and, the pitfalls of belief, which may,in cases, lead to living in bad faith.     Stephen has a point - look at the 'hardening of orthodoxies' taking place before our eyes.Buddhism has seen its share. There was irony in Denise Anderson's critical review. It closed with a quote from A.K. Coomaraswamy: 'Buddhism is most famous today for everything it originally was not. \\" One could see that as support for Stephen's approach, rather than a refutation.      Still, there are problems with presenting Buddhism 'without beliefs.' Admittedly, Buddhism does not set out a list of articles which must simply be believed. It recommends a practical course of inquiry - which, at some point, should bear fruit in terms of experiential insight - in the here and now.     Nevertheless, this is no mere pedestrian exercise.Buddhists are required to have 'faith' (sraddha) in the Dharma, and to that extent, it ties up with belief.If we weaken that, the suspension of (discriminative) thought advocated by Buddhism begins to look like plain agnosticsm - and, the fact some reviewers felt bothered by that,leaves little question that Stephen's rather simplistic account implants such misunderstandings.      Similar problems emerge in 'The Faith to Doubt,' which in fact conflated two quite different understandings of 'doubt' with one another - the sceptical,retiring doubt, and the inquiring doubt. The former type of doubt is endemic in modern thinking, and simply leaves people wooly minded.The latter type of doubt is acute, and focuses consciousness. A similar confusion might be said to under-pin Stephen's comments in this book, tapping the contemporary distrust of formal religion and belief systems,  on the rather strange assumption that this vacuum is somehow complementary to Buddhism, or conducive toit,when the reverse may well apply.      At any rate, without a little more attention to detail, and dare we say it - belief or faith in Buddhism, one wonders if it can yield its proper fruits? Stephen knows full well that his Asian teachers have had a place for faith and belief. Tibetan lamas do not perform thousands of prostrations - without being supported in their spiritual aspirations - by belief. And - yes, even the allegedly 'iconoclastic' Zen monks perform such prostrations(Hsu-yun, the most eminent Ch'an master of the last century, performed prostrations, all the way to India - on foot).      That said, religious 'belief' is a tricky beast.At the worst, it has been the stuff of burnings and inquisitions. It may yet yield 'religious' wars as a blind process of projected wish fulfilment. Stephen had his reasons for questioning the more pernicious things we do - in the name of beliefs. Still, the irony of Stephen's book, is that he has made it seem as if Buddhism had somehow advocated the more problematic notion of 'belief' touched on above, and now requires to be freed of it, when in truth, it has had an intelligent place for belief. That also includes - in all Buddhists traditions, deep belief in the law of causality. Stephen mentions that we have a'contingent,' but not a 'necessary' existence. But without being explicated in its proper terms (viz. pratitya samutpadda), it looks like a philosophy of shifting sand, and needed to be counter-balanced with clearer reference to that which is not shifting sand. Without 'sraddha' - which is more or less synonymous with belief, there is no path to liberation. Seng Ts'an's 'Hsin hsin Ming' means 'Faith/Belief in the Mind.' Shin Buddhism - is faith/belief based. In fact, Nagarjuna, the supposed inspiration behind much of Stephen's 'belief-less' Buddhism, wrote gathas about faith/belief, so we end up with certain difficulties, if we try to push this simplistic angle.	2005-03-31
US	16056234	R2PVQHAAWIHQ2A	0804713731	480918987	Wordsworth: The Sense of History	Books	2	9	23	N	N	A Loss of History	Wordsworth has always had critics - as well as admirers. His best critics have been those who have had a measure of respect for what has conveniently been called the 'Wordsworthian' vision or project. Almost all have puzzled over the paradoxical nature of W's career - the youthful republican idealist, who supported the French Revolution, and the conservative poet, who campaigned in the Tory cause. Almost all agree that W's later poems are somewhat less pleasing. Being pragmatic, why complain if a poet gifted with long life - found it impossible to maintain the flame or power required -  to pour that vision into satisfactory form, as the decades rolled on.<br /><br /> Alan Liu's study is not so much a lament of Wordsworth's failing powers, or a perceived rigidity, so much as a critique of the whole Wordsworthian project. As such, it is about as engaging to read as a 'bad food'guide. Liu finds Wordsworth disasteful, he evidently lacks poetic feeling, and doesn't like poets, anyway. Hence, it would be futile to digress here on the reason why John Stuart Mill cured his chronic melancholia by reading W's work - tuning his mind to kindred impressions, and why countless other people have derived a similar strength from the most inspired elements of W's work. Alas, while Liu's critique claims to be correcting the historical background to the Wordsworthian narrative, he betrays a rather feeble understanding of W's era - and its tensions. According to Liu, the Wordsworthian project is really little more than substitution - a kind of aesthetic mask and living in bad faith. Hence, this is not so much literary criticism, as libel, even character assassination - dressed up as literary criticism.<br /><br /> So, be prepared, there are lots of infidelties in this tome of a book (or tomb of a poet). To take one example, Liu adduces W's love of the 'picturesque' - the category of the picturesque generally, as a falsifying idiom. But in fact, W denounced a certain, frivolous use of the picturesque, devoid of historically relevant human actors. Still, as a poet, W was keenly aware of the fact that sheep are neither Tory nor Liberal, and neither monarchist nor republican.<br /><br /> According to Alan Liu, the pastoral life celebrated in W's poetry constituted a denial of the economic oppression syn-onymous with the landed gentry. But in actual fact, social life in Cumberland and Westmoreland (now Cumbria)- both in W's lifetime - and today, has never had the oppressive, 'enclosed' atmosphere characteric of some other parts of Britain. By long custom, you can walk freely over the fells of the Lake District, which are not fenced in. The famous stone walls are there to enclose the sheep - not people, who are free to step over stiles. The system of sub-tenancy with sheep farmers in the Lake District has therefore avoided the enclosure that Alan Liu wished to read into the situation, and that open-spirit is reflected in W's poems. Hence, Liu's argument that there is an analogical relationship between the enclosure of space, politically and economically, with the aesthetic enclosure of space, is entirely misplaced in the context of W's poetry and pastoral vision. With complete honesty, W could refer to himself as wandering 'freely as a cloud.' Sorry, Alan, but get your facts right!<br /><br /> Being a confirmed cynic, Alan Liu is even scathing about The National Trust - which now owns and manages large swathes of the Lake District. Liu seems as ignorant of what The National Trust is, as he is of - Wordsworth. By purchasing the said land, and its pleasing perspectives, The National Trust has thus guaranteed that future generations will be able to enjoy it. In short, this land now belongs to the people of Britain, not the government, nor the landed gentry. Do your homework, Alan!e of the picturesque, devoid of historically relevant human actors. Still, as a poet, W was keenly aware of the fact that sheep are neither Tory nor Liberal, and neither monarchist nor republican.  <br /> <br /> According to Alan Liu, the pastoral life celebrated in W's poetry constituted a denial of the economic oppression syn-onymous with the landed gentry. But in actual fact, social life in Cumberland and Westmoreland (now Cumbria)- both in W's lifetime - and today, has never had the oppressive, 'enclosed' atmosphere characteric of some other parts of Britain. By long custom, you can walk freely over the fells of the Lake District, which are not fenced in. The famous stone walls are there to enclose the sheep - not people, who are free to step over stiles. The system of sub-tenancy with sheep farmers in the Lake District has therefore avoided the enclosure that Alan Liu wished to read into the situation, and that open-spirit is reflected in W's poems. Hence, Liu's argument that there is an analogical relationship between the enclosure of space, politically and economically, with the aesthetic enclosure of space, is entirely misplaced in the context of W's poetry and pastoral vision. With complete honesty, W could refer to himself as wandering 'freely as a cloud.' Sorry, Alan, but get your facts right!  <br /> <br /> Being a confirmed cynic, Alan Liu is even scathing about The National Trust - which now owns and manages large swathes of the Lake District. Liu seems as ignorant of what The National Trust is, as he is of - Wordsworth. By purchasing the said land, and its pleasing perspectives, The National Trust has thus guaranteed that future generations will be able to enjoy it. In short, this land now belongs to the people of Britain, not the government, nor the landed gentry. Do your homework, Alan!	2005-03-28
US	16056234	R21273DOS8I55T	0471423270	938357392	Bush's Brain: How Karl Rove Made George W. Bush Presidential	Books	4	2	10	N	N	The ghost in the machine	Given the fact that a very large number of people seem to regard George W. Bush as 'brainless'  - this book really ought to be listed under fiction - or perhaps, horror stories.	2005-03-25
US	16056234	R15FGLY4VX5VZ3	0060638419	63830996	Nietzsche, Vol. 1: The Will to Power as Art, Vol. 2: The Eternal Recurrance of the Same	Books	2	20	37	N	N	Nietzsche Becomes a Heideggerian, too!	I hate to appear cynical, but in this book, isn't Heidegger doing what he has done with every other facet of Western philosophy - namely, making it a prelude to himself?  <br /> <br /> It is by no means certain that Nietzsche 'believed in' the heavy philosophizing Heidegger specialised in. Some of Nietzsche's writings even disavow 'philosophy' - period. Nietzsche's own writings make it clear that he changed his mind a lot, and therefore, anyone endeavouring to make a consistent reading - of an inconsistent philosophy, has either to ignore <br />large parts of someone else's thinking - or make stuff up - to fill in the gaps. Perhaps this explains why some readers find Heidegger's study of Nietzsche clarifying.Heidegger has filled in the blanks and patched planks over tricky precipices. <br /> <br /> For a man who had trouble relating to reality - for most of <br />his active life, elated one week, deep in depression the next, <br />Heidegger erects a remarkably impressive image of solidity <br />and consistency over Nietzsche's thought. Of course, we all enjoy reading 'Zarathustra.' But it's art - not reality. Nietzsche visualised those lovely ideas - but couldn't live them out.It wasn't 'lebensphilosophie' or 'erlebniss' - <br />but fantasy substitute. Heidegger would have you believe otherwise. Read any of Nietzsche's biographers (except the slavish idolatrers) - and that becomes evident enough. Alas, Heidegger has said nothing about the psychology of the real Nietzsche. Nietzsche condemned 'pity' as the trait of weak men. But the very thing which triggered his final collapse, was the <br />sight of a horse being beaten mercilessly. Perhaps that was the real Nietzsche - not the one who ran from his sense of pity. This series of volumes is profoundly meaningful if you happen to share Nietzsche's and Heidegger's pessimistic verdict about 2,500 years of (mistaken) Western philosophy. If you don't, <br />it might be considered one big yawn. I recommend Kaufmann's <br/>studies as a counter-balance.    <br />  <br />	2005-02-28
US	16056234	R21TDPTGKZ78G8	0391037617	980497000	Heidegger in Question: The Art of Existing (Philosophy and Literary Theory)	Books	1	4	11	N	N	Has anything been questioned?	This book does not really 'question' Heidegger at all. In <br />most respects, it simply repeats the platitudes found every-where else. I agree with the verdict of the other reviewer, <br />in thinking that Bernasconi is over-rated, much as he likes to <br />wear the mantle of 'continental philosopher.'  <br /> <br /> Quite rightly, we ought to complain when Aristotle's Nicomachean Ethics is presented in a 'Heideggerian'context. Perhaps Heidegger did this himself, but only on the basis of a selective (mis)reading. What Aristotle says about <br />'praxis' (or the kalei praxeis) in Chapter VI of N.E.and its cognate elements may well lend itself to this sort of thing, but Aristotle's final statement in Chapter X - on the 'Bios Theoretikos,' leads us back to the 'separate life' and a separate reality (choriston auto ti kath auto)which is anathema to Heidegger's (and Bernasconi's) ideal. Whatever, Aristotle didn't think he was a Heideggerian.  <br /> <br /> But then, what else can you expect from a contemporary <br />philosopher who has persistently reconstructed classical <br />philosophy to suit his own ends? Another example was the <br />notion that the 'actus signatus' of Thomas Aquinas can <br />be read as a pure, phenomenological solution to the old <br />subject-object problem. The text in question (Sum. Theo.) <br />dealing with sensible knowledge - is part of a whole <br />corpus which presupposed the existence of God. That - <br />and that alone, gave Thomas the ground for his 'adequatio.' <br />No God, no ground for the adequatio.  <br /> <br /> One might also add that Bernasconi's text says virtually <br />nothing about the moral question-mark hovering over <br />Heidegger's work, given his absolute failure to address <br />the Nazi problem during the Third Reich period - and the problem posed by knowledge of the holocaust - after the war. Where are the real questions. . .?     <br />	2005-02-28
US	16056234	R1EAASS2VPIDOM	081120104X	619571111	Zen and the Birds of Appetite	Books	5	28	28	N	N	A little book with lots of meaning.	There is something refreshing about this little book. The title will seem a bit misleading - if expecting to find an account of Zen per se - minus the Christian based reflections of the author. However, Merton is known well enough - and these essays show him at his best. The dialogue between D.T. Suzuki and Thomas Merton is fruitful. Christianity and Buddhism have often been presented as antithetical, working from bases too different - to afford dialogue. These essays challenge that perception, without falling into vague generalisations.  <br /> <br />  If anything, recent years have seen a 'hardening of the orthodoxies' - a retreat into numbingly conservative attitudes. Happily, the essays in this book evoke a more open-ended perspective. There is something arrogant and unspiritual about the wish to deny the value of dialogue between spiritual traditions. Where the 'birds of appetite' wheel and prey, the truth has fallen from sight - be it Christian 'innocence' or the 'fundamental face' of Zen.  <br /> <br /> We can't deny the merits of a Christian who endeavoured, with a whole heart, to take stock of what goes on in the other World religions. Similarly, we can't look badly upon a Buddhist, who was large-hearted enough to share the workings of the Christian mind and spirit. Merton's encounter with Buddhism exerted a seminal influence upon his whole life-thought. Suzuki's encounter with Christianity - chiefly, through Eckhart, exerted a similar influence (the Eckhartian equation 0=infinity -found its way into Suzuki's hand-written notes appended to the Mastsugaoka Zen Bunka ed of the Rinzai Roku). Let's hope that this new century of ours witnesses more dialogues in this vein.  <br />	2005-02-17
US	16056234	R25EJ41V5LMWL9	0904766349	27931355	Buddhism for Today: A Portrait of a New Buddhist Movement	Books	1	2	2	N	N	Problematic.	Be warned, this book says more about author's organisation per se - than 'Buddhism' as it actually is today. The sexual politics in this book are not truly representative of Buddhism. Heterosexual relationships and family life are depicted as a kind of nightmare you'd better avoid. While not for monks, it advocates single sex communities - with an inference that homosexual relationships are better for the spiritual life.  <br />If you advocated these ideas - in an Asian Buddhist community, you'd be a laughing stock - and thrown out of a temple for them. The ideas in this book would make no sense whatsoever to several million Asian Buddhists, who are often married - including Zen priests, Jodo priests, Tibetan Lamas etc.  <br /> <br /> The organisation to which Subhuti belongs has nothing good to say for the established Sangha - or lay Buddhists, as usually understood. If we took the ideas in this book seriously, we would have to conclude that 99.9% of the world's Buddhists have had it all wrong, leaving The Western Buddhist Order - alone, to claim full political correctness. If you want to feel absolutely superior and unique - join now!	2005-02-11
US	16056234	R1KDTVG13KQH31	0195002237	8924508	The Tibetan Book of the Dead: Or, The After-Death Experiences on the Bardo Plane, according to Lama Kazi Dawa-Samdup's English Rendering (Galaxy Books)	Books	5	64	67	N	N	A classic	This translation deserved the good reviews. The text has been summed up well in other reviews. A word about the author seems appropriate. It is worth pointing out that W.Y. Evans-Wentz was an American (one reviewer stated that W.Y. E-W was English).The confusion here stems from the fact that W.Y. E-W went to Oxford, England, as a Rhodes scholar. He was a very articulate and erudite man - well versed in the Western classics, Western mystery tradition etc. - and in his footnotes, he made frequent cross references to such.  <br /> <br /> A few people now fault E-W' work - because of the universal sweep of his intuitions.It has even been suggested that he corrupted the purity of the Tibetan teachings - by his inter-cultural or trans-cultural horizons.Some Tibetan Lamas (i.e. Trungpa) have faulted E-W's work on such grounds.Western afficionadoes of Tibetan Buddhism - people who like to imagine themselves among the elect(Professors and pop followers alike) have chimed in.  <br /> <br /> Such people forget (or prefer to ignore) the fact that W.Y.Evans-Wentz spent many years studying and working with Tibetan Lamas. Be assured, W.Y. Evans-Wentz' projects had the blessing of his Tibetan co-worker - Lama Kazi Dawa Sammdup. There are those who would argue that this blessing did not extend to the commentary material - subsequently added by E-W, after his work with the Lama. But how E-W presented the material to a Western audience - was his business.  <br /> <br /> Death is most certainly a universal experience - and E-W placed it in a truly universal context. Is that so surprising? <br />The Jungian commentary appended to the first ed. of this text has also come in for criticism (some editions now delete it). But Jung had something - when suggesting that we ought to read the TBD 'BACKWARDS' - to understand the difficulties modern minds get into - when trying to approach such territory. Still, as E-W points out, late medieval Western culture had a similar perspective on death. It was part of life, we similarly understood the need to 'live our dying' - and the need to 'die-in-life' to find the greater spiritual life. There are chapels in Europe, constructed entirely of human bones. It looks morbid to modern people - but, in fact, it signified a triumph over death. Death is the greatest adventure. Whatever we may be doing, death is the ultimate destination that awaits us. Many European cathedrals have a 'memento mori' - an image of death, saying: \\"I was as you are;as I am, so shall ye be. \\" Will you be able to pay the ferryman - when the boat comes?	2005-02-11
US	16056234	RVXSBP3QOMW1T	0691114641	612463830	The Seduction of Unreason: The Intellectual Romance with Fascism from Nietzsche to Postmodernism	Books	1	43	96	N	N	Clear as Mud	The theme suggested by the title is fine, but the author does not stick with his agenda. This book is full of erratic observations, not least the notion that Jung was a fellow traveler with the Nazis. Anyone who has read Jung at all well, would know that he devoted considerable energy to the task of trying to understand the 'unreason' which seized hold of the German spirit (Jung actually regarded it as a kind of collective 'posession' by the spirit of Wotan). Unlike Heidegger (and Nietzsche), Jung remained grounded in the positive values of Western civilisation - including democracy. He did not turn his back on 2,500 years of Graeco-Roman/Judeo-Christian culture. To allege that he did is sheer nonsense and exceedingly poor scholarship.     Unfortunately, Wolin seems utterly unable to see that there are paradoxes in life - and human reason. In his assessment, America comes out as the exemplary source of 'rational' culture - as against a quirky Europe, prone to unreason and crippling scepticism. But, in its present mode -dominated by Neo-con philosophy, advocating 'full spectrum dominance' ('Amerika uber alles,' we might say) - some scepticism seems needed right now. There is a new 'Macarthyism' at work in the USA - and it is driven by hubris and UNREASON. 'Star wars'is hardly the attribute of a 'rational' culture. America has few friends in the world today  - and why? Because its current administration has abdicated from the principles ostensibly lauded in Wolin's book. Quite rightly, that worries many Americans - and platitudes like those served up by Wolin will not make the problem go away.      The zenophobia in Wolin's book is part of the problem - not part of the solution. For Wolin, even Europe is 'alien' - so, how much more so is he likely to find problems relating to other, non-caucasian cultures? In this sense - a fatal flaw runs through Wolin's book. He fears fascism - but advocates an agenda whereby one culture stands in judgement of every other, ready touse force - if needs be, in any corner of the world - to protect and assert its alleged superiority - and that, by definition - is fascism. Paranoia and reason don't make good partners.	2005-02-04
US	16056234	R1THIYIQWJ3UO8	1570629579	462926908	Cutting Through Spiritual Materialism (Shambhala Classics)	Books	5	20	27	N	N	Can the knife cut itself?	Clearly - this work of Trungpa's has helped a lot of people. It has become - and will remain, a 'classic' among Western Buddhists. Thanks be for the wise things it has to impart.  <br /> <br /> Be that as it may, don't imagine that everything it touches has turned to gold. In the interest of objectivity - and compassion, it needs to be pointed out that Trungpa's chief successor - Osel Tendzin (Thomas Rich), brought a tragic hiatus to Trungpa's work, after infecting disciples with HIV (AIDS). <br />When asked why he had behaved so recklessly - he declared that he 'thought his tantric powers would protect him.' We needn't ask whether this was Trungpa's 'crazy wisdom' - it was just plain crazy.   <br /> <br /> If you doubt the veracity of this sad, folly ridden tale, check the files of Sanfrancisco Chronicle and other leading papers - and web-sites dealing with cult-abuse. This sorry business led to court proceedings and litigation - hardly an edifying example of 'Buddhist wisdom.' Osel Tendzin obviously suffered himself (he died of Aids in 1991). The damage done to people, damaged Buddhism - through bad press. It leaves all Buddhists - regardless of background, in something of a 'double-bind.' At some point - we have to put this behind us. But we can't do that while people remain oblivious of the problem - the danger of unquestioning allegiance to spiritual leaders and religious 'institutions.' Ironically, the ultimate answer lies in the wisdom hinted at in Trungpa's book. If teachers don't practice what they preach, we have a duty to complain. Regrettably, the episode noted is by no means an isolated case. Other 'Tantric' teachers have sub-sequently been sued for using 'tantra' as a pretext to exploit people sexually.Be warned -ANYONE who tries or even suggests anything of this sort is betraying the example of the Buddha and is not fit to teach. It must be confronted, and if necessary, made public, before further damage is done.	2005-02-04
US	16056234	R154S530TCQZWE	0904766691	407711949	Bringing Buddhism to the West: A Life of Sangharakshita	Books	1	4	5	N	N	Mostly fiction	For an objective account, try the FWBO Files web-site below:     [...]	2005-02-01
US	16056234	R2T2SNB7MOANNA	0877286205	840693341	The Buddhist Vision: An Introduction to Theory and Practice of Buddhism	Books	1	1	4	N	N	Omniscient, omnipotent, omnipresent . . . but no 'om.'	For an account of how this translates into 'reality' - there is no  better place to look than the WBO Files web-site. Keep a plastic bucket handy.      [...] ex-cult. org/fwbo/fwbo files.htm	2005-02-01
US	16056234	R1FI2384BTUGZ5	0674994841	286412992	Plotinus: Volume I, Porphyry on Plotinus, Ennead I (Loeb Classical Library No. 440)	Books	5	29	30	N	N	The ultimate net. Web of the universe!	While Plotinus has always had his devotees -(Neo-)Platonism has received a heavy bashing in our times, chiefly a legacy of Nietzsche's and Heidegger's strictures. According to them, it was all something of a mistake.<br /><br /> However, the fact remains that 'Platonism' of a certain sort has to be thanked for some of the most inspired - and inspiring elements of Western culture. Meister Eckhart - for instance, who has certainly been back on the map - is an heir to the Platonist tradition. Nietzsche's view of the Renaissance as a kind of 'inversion' of Platonist thought was entirely mistaken. People like Ficino and members of the Florentine Academy were ardent students of Platonism - especially as re-stated by Plotinus.<br /><br /> Walk round any classic Italian city - and the beauty you see is very much a legacy of Neo-Platonism. It isn't - and wasn't, the 'dead' claptrap Nietzsche and Heidegger spoke of. One upshot of the contemporary disdain for 'traditional' Western philosophy is to look at 'Oriental' teachings. That is a fine and meaningful enterprise. Yet Meister Eckhart - highly infuenced by Platonism, is frequently cited as a Western 'thinker' who is in tune with 'Oriental' thought.<br /><br /> Read Plotinus carefully, and you'll be in for some pleasant surprises. He hints about a process called 'henosis' - becoming 'one'd' with the action of the divine energeia. For him, this was not just something inside the cranium, but an actual experience - like a Zen 'satori.' We are no longer accustomed to the kind of terms and language employed by Plotinus, but the effort to recapture his terms of thinking<br />brings all sorts of precious intuitions. The most dualistic elements of the Western tradition are relatively recent - a legacy of Cartesian philosophy, modern rationalism and the Industrial Revolution.<br /><br /> It is nothing more than a shallow generalisation to 'lump' all the bad elements of Western philosophy together - as a legacy of Platonism. There is much sublimity and beauty in it, and you will find both in good measure - if you digest the writings of Plotinus.much sublimity and beauty in it, and you will find both in good measure - if you digest the writings of Plotinus.	2005-02-01
US	16056234	R5L1Y0XM7SI7I	0855110406	139643645	City of Revelation: On the Proportions and Symbolic Numbers of the Cosmic Temple	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A fascinating study.	Contrary to what has been stated otherwise, John Michell's 'City of Revelation'  does not endeavour to squeeze everything into 'Christian Mysticism.' It acknowledges that there is a universal pattern to these things - a correspondence between cultures - when it comes to sacred measure,a canon of divine proportions, the link between alphabets - and number (symbolism, gematria). John Michell's first book - 'The View of Atlantis' - made this clear, happy to note the@correspondence between ancient British ley-lines, Chinese 'lung-mei' etc.  <br /> <br />  'City of Revalation' does focus on the 'Book of Revelation' as an archetypal example, but Michell's references to a broader canvas can hardly be missed. He gladly acknowledged that the@'canon of proportions' and symbolic numbers of the cosmic temple found in Christian sources - are a legacy of pre-Christian culture. It would be missing the point entirely, to see 'City of Revelation' as an exclusive reference to Christian mysticism. Michell's main point - is to reinforce the shared agenda. The Church of England, for example, once denied the canon of proportions referred to in this book. The official measurements given for the ground-plans/proportions of cathedrals etc., are usually innacurate, for they are invariably stated in terms of the conventional yard, whereas the original ground plans etc. were laid out in megalithic yards. Give John Michell some credit! He hasn't the least interest in narrow definitions of creed. The great beauty in what he has observed - and what he has to say, lies in the shared agenda. The trans-cultural references in this book make that abundantly clear.	2005-01-28
US	16056234	R1D8X0OGHBK1SQ	0914732145	32532294	Fulcanelli: Master Alchemist: Le Mystere des Cathedrales, Esoteric Intrepretation of the Hermetic Symbols of The Great Work- English version	Books	5	121	130	N	N	Liquid Sermons in stone	Many years ago, an artist friend of mine said \\"I'm not interested in Gothic stuff. Its been 'done.' I want to explore new things. \\" True - not everyone thinks like that, but it does underscore a serious illusion - that we know what 'Gothic' is - that we have somehow quantified it. In truth, we haven't. Gothic cathedrals are as mysterious as the pyramids. We all know that a cathedral is a religious centre or 'seat.' But the@emergence of gothic cathedrals - all over Europe, with their soaring architectural forms and rhythmns, quite unlike anything around them - enshrines a great and rich mystery. This book explores something of that mystery.  <br /> <br /> Until of late, an appreciation of Fulcanelli's 'The Mystery of the Cathredals' has been restricted to a few estoric circles. Fulcanellihimself  - remains something of an enigma. Born Paris, 1877, Fulcanelli's manum opus was first published in 1926 in a limited edition of 300 copies. It has attracted interest ever since - even though viewed askance by the more orthodox interpreters of Church history/architecture. Basically, Fulcanelli's book celebrates the 'hermetic' or 'masonic' mysteries enshrined in the great European cathedrals, the presence of a truly 'catholic' i.e. universal)and dynamic mystery tradition - at once concealed and revealed -within the very facade of 'stone' orthodoxy. <br /> <br /> Fulcanelli devotes much attention to the facade of the Notre Dame de Paris, but what he had to say is true of all great European cathedrals, designed and built by master-masons who had access to the hermetic tradition. This makes 'Dan Brown' stuff look tame and provincial. Look at any genuine Gothic church architecture - carefully, and you will dis-cover what Fulcanelli was hinting at. The dynamic symbolism involved flows <br /> like liquid - through every authentic Gothic edifice.  <br /> <br /> Taking its 'verticality' into account - more than a few art historians have condemned Gothic as 'artificial' and unnatural- compared to the earthy distribution of weight and horizontality of Graeco-Roman forms. But this is shallow. The secret of Gothic architecture lies in its emergence and unfoldment from a single pointless-point, and its regathering therein. It celebrates a two-way flow, from formlessness into form, and form into formlessness. The 'Gothic' primarily celebrates the mystery of spaceless-space, the space where mind, form and the divine energeia interact. Read this book, digest what it has to say - and you will rediscover the mystery enshrined in every form and the cathedral of life.                <br /> <br />	2005-01-28
US	16056234	R1ORQ6WILIUXO2	0914732242	259148452	THE Sacred Symbols of Mu	Books	5	76	79	N	N	Get out of the armchair!	It is sad to see derogatory reviews of James Churchward's well researched books. If you can't name the fifth President of the United States or say where Point Roberts is - forget about judging Churchward, a veteran traveller, philologist and student of human culture - virtually without equal today. These days - people study narrow fields. Churchward mapped the connections between these isolated fields or cultures - and traced them back to the lost continent or Motherland of Mu. He presented and deciphered Cara-Maya, the mother tongue of Mu, showing how its roots can be traced in a number of different languages and cultures located within or around 'The Ring of Fire.' He provided details of cultural artifacts - to illustrate his theory. Churchward claimed to have received much help in this regard, from an aged Indian Rishi. <br /> <br /> Having lived in various bits of the Pacific rim, including odd visits to pacific islands, I can guarantee that anyone who does more than speculate from an armchair -would find Churchward's ideas backed up by substantial evidence scattered through dozens of pacific rim cultures - be it the Pacific N.W. of America, Japan - or wherever. Age-old symbols, in seemingly disparate and disconnected cultures share similar myth-motifs, tell related tales of a tragic, swallowing of a mother-culture beneath the ocean. Besides the Bible, such a deluge is also mentioned in the Chinese Shih-ching (Book of History).    <br /> <br /> Thor Heyerdal noted the phenomenon - again, not a man prone to expound on distant cultures - from an armchair. Many of Churchward's ideas challenge current scientific and academic 'orthodoxy' (alleging, for instance, that the earth's large mountain ranges were formed - long after mother earth, herself). Churchward also notes anomolous facts - like archeological artifacts that show the existence of technically advanced cultures - beneath the remains of other, less advanced cultures. In most cases, such anomalies cannot beaccounted for by orthodox archeology and strictly linear theories of human cultural development.  <br /> <br /> It may be disturbing to consider that a sudden geological cataclysm might throw human civilisation and culture backwards - almost wiping the slate, but after the recent tsunami - it doesn't take much imagination to think what would happen - if whole techtonic plates broke up - effectively reducing a whole continent to nothing - save scattered islands and peripheral strips of land mass. Plato,for his own part, related similar events (Atlantis) in the Timaeus. Usually mocked as 'fiction' - the fact remains that Plato was absolutely serious about it.  <br /> <br /> Churchward was thoroughly serious. Given the fact that he reconstructed the hieratic sacred alphabet of Mu, and spent years deciphering the information yielded by hundreds of artifacts from cultures around the Pacific rim - and related areas, it is absurd to suggest that his theories were without proof and ill-founded.He has given us the evidence. The greater part of it is too compelling to ignore.	2005-01-28
US	16056234	R12UGL9J5PSTQM	050027312X	258768476	The New View over Atlantis	Books	5	51	56	N	N	A breath of fresh air!	Like many other readers, I agree with the reviewer who said that this book has 'revolutionary implications' for humanity and the sciences. I read the first edition - years back, and in its own way, it changed my entire perspective on life. One reviewer abandoned it as 'hippy dippy' nonsense - but, such ideas have been heeded and used in Asia, for millennia. Sorry, but 'hippies' did not invent it. Until modern times, such wisdom regulated the lay out of temples, even whole towns in  Asia. Rather like acupuncture - the principles involved with 'feng-shui - ley-lines (lung-mei in China) defy strict logic - but, they can be divined in other ways - and work!  <br /> <br /> A word of caution, however. More than a few people refer to this lost-art as 'earth science' - but, that's too simplistic. From the Chinese point of view, it is an interplay between celestial and terrestrial energy (chi), and it seems that the caucasian practitioners of yore viewed it the same way.    <br />It is not entirely lost to Western people. When push comes to shove, hard-headed business people in Australia have paid diviners to 'dowse' for water - and they are usually successful.  'Dowsing' is but one element - but it is a good place to put 'theory' to the test. As supplementary reading, I recommend Guy Underwood's 'Patterns of the Past' - because he 'dowsed' and mapped the energy-fields around many megalithic sites, cathedrals etc. - with fascinating results. At one time, the Russian Academy of Science sponsored research into such things, finding what were termed 'black pools' - nodes of negative energy which exerted a harmful effect upon humans, animals and plants. John Michell's 'The View Over Atlantis' was a ground-breaking work - and it is good to see this new edition. <br />Given the worsening picture - environmentally, it seems timely to review ways of thinking, taking man's interdependence with the terrestrial and celestial forces into account. The 'chopped logic' which has governed life since the Industrial Revolution can no longer serve us. Modern physics tells us that the perceived boundaries between things - are largely illusory, and we should explore the prospect of re-alligning science with the wisdom of the ancients. We need scientists who are shamans, to see us through the next millennium and beyond.	2005-01-28
US	16056234	R35UWNR993V0LK	0802150926	252512452	The Zen Teaching of Huang Po: On the Transmission of Mind	Books	5	145	146	N	N	A pearl without price	There seems to be unanimous agreement that this deceptively compact text repays careful digestion, a mine of wisdom compressed within its pages -for those prepared to dig it out. Huang Po's discourses (and the Wan Ling record) remain some the most lucid expositions of Zen. They were delivered when the Zen tradition was still fresh. Huang po's 'sermons' were addressed to practising Buddhists. They presuppose that you are 'looking' into the meaning hinted at - the 'MIND' - which is neither 'yours' nor 'mine' - and in that sense 'VOID' - yet<br />embraces everything in the phenomenal universe.<br /><br /> Zen is sometimes regarded as an 'obscure' doctrine, but Huang P'o sermons have a refreshing sense of focus. Skirting the boundaries of what is virtually indescribable, he necessarily ends up uttering paradoxes - sometimes paradox -within-paradox, within paradox - and yet, in such a way that it actually brings focus, 'jiggling' the mind out of its habitual tendency to cling to dualities and contraries. In short, it resumes its inherent condition. We don't 'do' it - 'IT' does itself. All we have to do - is to get out of the way.<br /><br /> Thus, Huang P'o's 'direct pointing to the Mind.'This is Zen as it was originally taught, before all the wrangling about 'fixed koans' and answers - or getting stuck with 'just sitting.'Huang P'o speaks with unshakeable conviction that we can AWAKEN RIGHT NOW - if we look into what he is saying. He doesn't want to tie anyone up. It has to be 'your own thing' - nobody else can do it for you. This is squeaky clean Dharma!<br /><br />P.S  Besides the Huang-Po material, Blofeld also translated<br />  Hui-hai's 'Treatise on Entering the Gate to Sudden<br />  Enlightenment.' Between them, these two Zen 'sermons'<br />  represent some of most lucid expositions of Zen - ever<br />  set down in writing. They posess astonishing focus and<br />  compression, without a wasted word.	2004-12-22
US	16056234	R2BGO9TH41O9CN	0710002122	442192997	Dogen's Formative Years in China: An Historical Study and Annotated Translation of the Hokyo-ki	Books	4	5	5	N	N	One man's quest	Kodera's engaging book is an annotated translation and study of Dogen's Hokyo-ki, recording Dogen's formative years - both prior to - and during his trip to Sung China, in search of an 'authentic teacher.' It thus relates details of Dogen's  meeting with Master Ju-ching (Tendo Nyojo) at the Ching-te monastery on Mount T'ien-tung. Being the most formative influence upon Dogen's early career, such an account will have an obvious appeal among those currently engaged with Dogen's teachings, in the West.   <br /> <br />  In translation, the core text of the Hokyo-ki is short, comprising 27 pages. The bulk of Kodera's text - 258 pages in all, is taken up with annotations and analyses, an extensive bibliography (listing primary Chinese sources, Japanese sources, modern sources in several languages) - plus an edited version of the 'Chinese' (kanbun) Hokyo-ki text.   <br /> <br /> Kodera's translation is flawless, the annotations helpful, the analyses for the most part, well informed. While sympathetic in his treatment of Dogen, Kodera occasionally notes problematic aspects of Dogen's thought. For example, there are certain discrepancies between Dogen account of Ju-ching's teaching in the Hokyo-ki - and what appears - independently of the Hokyo-ki, in Chinese records. Kodera touches on Dogen's criticism of Ta-hui - a leading Lin-chi master of the Sung. However, as with Hee Jin Kim's study (Dogen:Mystical Realist)such issues remain unresolved - shelved as an aporia. Given Dogen's rather polemical turn of mind after 1243, which went hand-in-hand with an endeavour to re-invent or redefine himself -vis-a-vis      other schools - such matters deserved better attention. Despite the pluralistic outlook found in the Shobogenzo Zuimonki, the Hokyo-ki finds Dogen claiming that the Soto (Ts'ao-tung) school alone, has preserved the transmission of 'True Dharma-eye' - with certificates of succession, to 'prove' it. This is prob-lematic, and needed further clarification. Hence - the 'four stars' rating.	2004-12-14
US	16056234	R2BDF7VDH1L1AH	0946672032	547987821	Zen Teaching of Instantaneous Awakening: being the teaching of the Zen Master Hui Hai, known as the Great Pearl	Books	5	96	96	N	N	A classic guide	It is good to know that reprints of this excellent translation are available. Hui Hai, otherwise known as the 'Great Pearl' - was  an outstanding Ch'an master of the Tang. This translation repays careful digestion. John Blofeld spent many years in China, frequenting Chinese Buddhist temples. The Chinese text translated here, was given to J.B. during one such sojourn at a Chinese Ch'an monastery. Blofeld's careful translation was given a final 'polishing' by Lu K'uan Yu, an eminent Chinese Buddhist translator, authorised by the Ven. Hsu-yun (1840-1959), the most outstanding Chinese Master of the 20th c. As such, this text could not have a better pedigree.       While certainly the fruit of good scholarship (a useful glossary explains the proper meaning of Chinese Buddhist terms used in the text), this book is pre-eminently practical. It is unusually clear and focused and doesn't come over as a careless hodge-podge of koans. Like Huang Po's discourses (also ably translated by J.B.)Hui Hai's teaching is very direct and to the point. This book is actually a translation of two texts. The first is Hui Hai's 'Treatise on Entering the Gate to Sudden Enlightenment' (Tun-wu Ju Tao Men Lun), the second, a translation of the Tsung Ching Lu or 'Tsung Ching Record.' The latter opens with an account of Hui Hai's meeting with Master Ma-tsu, and Hui Hai's initial enlightenment:     Hui Hai: \\"I have come seeking the Buddha-dharma.\\"     Ma-tsu:  \\"Instead of looking to the treasure house which is             your very own, you have left home and gone             wandering far away. What for? I have absolutely             nothing here at all. What is this Buddha-dharma             of which you speak? \\"      - whereat the master Hui Hai prostrated himself on the  ground, enquiring:             \\"  Please tell me to what you alluded, when you              spoke of a treasure house of my very own?\\"        Ma-tsu: \\" THAT which asked the question is your                treasure house (i.e. wisdom-mind). It                contains absolutely everything you need                and lacks nothing at all. It is there for              you to use freely, so why this vain search               for something outside yourself? \\"      No sooner were these words spoken, than the master   received a great illumination and recognised his own  mind. Beside himself with joy, he hastened to show his   gratitude by prostrating himself again . . .\\"      Hui Hai stayed with Ma-tsu for six years, maturing and deepening his insight, subsequently becoming an eminent master in his own right. It is worth noting the impact of Ma-tsu's words, which pointed directly to Hui-hai's inherent wisdom or the mind -nature, inherent in us all. Hui-hai chose to lead the life of a Buddhist monk, but the essential gist of Ma-tsu's remarks has meaning for us today. What we are 'seeking' is already there. We can't 'find' it outside ourselves, and insofar as it is our inherent endowment, we cannot 'get' it;  all we can do - and are required to do - is to un-cover it, by ridding ourselves of dualistic notions. But since the idea of ridding ourselves of dualistic notions, is another dualistic notion, all we are required to do - is to lay down our false thinking - to 'let go' - neither 'clinging' nor 'rejecting' - and 'look into' our minds. Call it spiritual 'Judo' - if you like, not resisting, but sublimating errant thoughts. In fact, without 'looking into' where these thoughts rise and fall, we have no way to find our inherent treasure house. Its a bit like looking at smoke rising from a fire.@But don't listen to me, listen to Hui Hai!      Hui Hai's 'Treatise on Sudden Awakening' is excellent:     Q. What method must we practice in order to attain      deliverance? \\"    A. It can be attained only through a sudden illumination.     Q. What is Sudden Illumination?     A. 'Sudden' means ridding ourselves of deluded thoughts in a     flash. 'Illumination' means the realization that      illumination is not something to be attained.     Q.  From where do we start this practice?    A.  You must start from the very root.    Q.   And what is that?     A.   Mind is root.        Hui-hai's pithy talk, giving hints on how to approach 'sudden enlightenment' - is a real gem. Not a 'Treatise' in the modern sense at all (the Chinese 'Lun' - in Buddhist terms, is the equivalent of a shastra), readers will find that Hui-hai's text is simply re-iterating, from different angles, the same point - often likened to an adamantine wedge, cutting through every conceivable distinction that would otherwise hinder or block direct perception of the Mind-nature. Hence, coupled with what Hui-hai has to say about Dhyana-practice, readers will find that Hui-hai's words help to 'centre' consciousness. In short, you will forget all about Hui-hai and words - and discover the substance of what he is pointing to. This is powerful stuff.      But note well: Hui-hai does recommend Dhyana-practice, otherwise known in the West as Za-zen. Not that long go, some Western exponents of Zen used to argue that masters such as Ma-tsu, Hui-hai etc., disregarded this practice and deemed it unnecessary. This misunderstanding came about, because such masters warned people not to think that mere 'sitting' was an end in itself, lest they get caught up in a one-sided preference for stillness over activity. Viewed aright, what is known as Dhyana-practice ultimately predisposes the mind to return to its inherently still condition, whether we are sitting, or engaged in our ordinary daily activities. Dhyana begets stillness, and stillness gives rise to prajna, or non-dual wisdom. Once aroused, proper dhyana-prajna operates or takes effect, regardless of our physical location, or the relative states of stillness and activity. Even so, at the beginning of training, most practicers find difficulty trying to arrest their errant thoughts. If they adopt a natural attitude toward Dhyana practice, they will find that its effects carry-over to their daily activities, which become one with the practice. Ultimately, what Hui-hai is pointing to can be actualised wherever we happen to be - if we only follow his advice.      Another thing worth noting about this text, is Hui-hai's extensive knowledge of the traditional Buddhist sources. Loathe to cling to well known terms and idioms, and thus reluctant to encourage this trait in others, such masters coined their own terms, used slang etc., to drive home the practical meaning or message of Buddhism. This has sometimes led modern scholars to form the unfortunate conclusion that such masters rejected the Buddha's teaching. However, as the present text clearly shows, Hui-hai was well versed in traditional Buddhist doctrine. Left to his own devices, he preferred  to use his own idioms, with a modest sprinkling of Buddhist terms. But some of his callers were travelling Dharma-masters (Fa-shih) who specialised in giving lectures on Buddhist texts. Alas, sometimes proud of their learning, they would challenge him to answer questions in this regard. As will be seen, Hui-hai was able to handle himself well in such circumstances, replying with detailed answers- and, very often, exposing the fact that such Dharma-masters had little real insight into the doctrines they gave lectures on! All in all, a remarkable text, detailing the teachings of an excellent master. Ma-tsu, Hui-hai etc., and a handful of masters like them, shaped a whole tradition. We often approach them today - piecemeal, through later distortions and caricatures. It is refreshing to be able to digest these primary sources and good to see this excellent translation back in print.	2004-12-13
US	16056234	RQATDFFCC49PF	027102190X	178431054	Hua-Yen Buddhism: The Jewel Net of Indra (Iaswr Series)	Books	5	11	17	N	N	The ultimate net. Web of the universe!	It is a pleasure to see this book, which complements Garma Chang's 'Buddhist Teaching of Totality.' I recommend both, because Chang's text contains additional material. The review by C. King Khida (Damascus, Syria) was excellent. Incidentally, it was intriguing to find that review 'prefaced' by a poem from a 14th c. Islamic mystic, expressing insight akin to the 'totalistic' view of the Hua Yen.  <br /> <br /> This raises an interesting question. Buddhist teachings have impacted the West, because they are - in many ways, working from a different basis viz. 'nisvabhava' (no-self being of any kind, only mutual arising and interdependence etc.)This is a radically different outlook - from religious systems and doctrines based on svabhava-bound clinging (whence, all the wooden dogmatism, intolerance, partial mindedness etc). But we ought not to ignore the fact that non-Buddhist teachings have, in their own way, approached insight akin to the Hua-yen.  <br /> <br /> In this debate, Platonism and Neo-Platonism are almost always 'presented as problematic- the very doctrines which have, so to speak, crippled the West's ability to arrive at anything like Hua-yen type insight. However, it is worth noting that Plotinus (Enneads) gets very close to Hua-yen, with his notion of the holon-meros or 'whole in the part' - with the corollary that each part, reflects or interpenetrates - with every other part - and this, only because of an emptying. For Plotinus, this was a living experience, a spiritual insight - not mere speculation. Again, certain aspects of Jewish mysticism stress 'emptiness'- as the pre-condition for the world of forms to exist and co-exist. Hence, we have a situation where Islamic, Jewish, Christian (neo-Platonist) and Buddhist thinkers have, in fact, concurred. Given the rather dangerous 'polarisaton' taking place in the world community, we ought to make more of this 'creative emptiness.'	2004-12-12
US	16056234	R3FQ8GY84EY6XF	0060648082	400516594	Freedom from the Known	Books	5	19	21	N	N	Reviewing ourselves	Written years ago, Krishnamurti's 'Freedom from the Known' is highly cleansing after the avalanche of recent writings, setting out this or that way of finding the truth. What he says touches the heart of all true spiritual awareness - all valid spiritual teachings, but with an almost surgical precision. In short, what we often IMAGINE to be a quest for spiritual truth, turns out to be a deluded game, playing with the same old monkey nuts which prevent us from opening our spiritual eye. We WANT SOMETHING, but the ultimate truth is not a 'something.' We want gratification, but this person who wants to be gratified (or justified) is the illusion which binds us to suffering.  <br /> <br /> The truth is unconditioned. It is not a 'known' thing. Let go of yourself, all your cherished clingings, including the idea of getting something - by letting go of them - and the truth will set you free.  <br /> <br /> Some people don't like this. They find it disturbing, they feel cheated or robbed. They don't get a 'system' to play with.Nor do they become members of the elect, by gaining access to a special 'in crowd.' But remember - that's the same old monkey nuts we tie ourselves to suffering with. The unconditioned truth is always there. You can't get it, because you didn't lose it. Even Krishnamurti has to go.	2004-12-02
US	16056234	R2KX80PJ1GAC31	187801918X	442551150	The Essential Teachings of Ramana Maharshi: A Visual Journey	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Zen without 'Zen.'	The straightforward teaching of Ramana Maharshi is, in essence, akin to the 'direct pointing to the Mind' advocated <br />by the best Zen teachings. DIGEST what is hinted at in this book, and you won't have to waste time - getting in your own way. Thankfully,no obfuscation here about lineages, teachers and institutions. What is 'seeing' these lines - is  what you are seeking. As the saying goes 'WATCH THIS SPACE.	2004-12-02
US	16056234	R11CLO75N4S6S	1852305509	54974814	Jesus Lived in India: His Unknown Life Before and After the Crucifixion	Books	5	20	24	N	N	Breaking the mould	Holger Kersten's book (Jesus Lived in India)is a fascinating addition to the growing body of literature daring to challenge the 'orthodox' account of Jesus' life and ministry. It elicits polarised reactions. Inevitably, those bound by tightly drawn definitions of Christian orthodoxy will be offended by Holger Kersten's book; conversely, anyone who has puzzled over those 'missing years' in the life of Jesus - surely the most formative period of his life, will find Kersten's ideas liberating, especially if they suspect (as more than a few have)that Jesus spent this time elsewhere, seeking religious instruction and insight. That, after all, is what many 'wise men of the East' have done, before going on to develop their own teachings, ministering to the spiritual needs of mankind. <br /> <br />  The corollary of this, of course, is that Jesus becomes somewhat less 'unique' than the divine man-God enshrined in orthodox religious dogma - who appeared 'once in eternity.' Rather, Jesus is seen as another 'Atavar' - but one more 'light-bringer' among others, in the stream of eternity. In the Hindu-cum-Buddhist world-view, that does not constitute a problem.  <br /> <br /> The strong point of Kersten's book, is the empirical evidence, geo-historical detail, cross-cultural links, noting shrines, buildings, scattered local legends etc.- which leave little doubt that Jesus did, indeed, sojourn in many of the places noted. The notion that Jesus lived in India is not particularly new. Kersten cites the work of Nicholas Notovich whose book -'The Unknown Life of Jesus' (1894)caused something of a scandal. By chance, an accident (broken leg) and period of convalescence in the Himalayan kingdom of Ladakh, led Notivich to an astounding discovery. The monks at the Hemis monastery shew him a book, recounting Jesus' travels in the region, where he has been revered as 'Lord Issa.' This received further corroboration by Kersten's visit to Kashmir, where the 'Issa' legend still prevails, notleast - the shrine allegedly containing the body of Jesus. Strangely, however, Kersten overlooked one prominent detail in the Kashmiri account of Jesus (Issa)- namely, the belief that Jesus was married. The family bloodline of Sri Basharat Saleem, well known in Srinagar, is said to make him and his kin, descendants of Jesus. In the interest of consistency, it seems a waste to explore the Kashmir-Jesus link, yet make nothing of this matter. In fact, placing implicit trust in sources which he has otherwise deemed questionable, or seriously incomplete, Kersten actually cited 'Matthew' in the N.T. - to confirm the 'fact' that Jesus was single  (p. 104). It is a pity Kersten did not follow up the Jesus 'bloodline' link in Kashmir, for it widens the speculations surrounding the alleged bloodline in Europe, linked with the Priure de Sion - both may be valid( cf. 'The Holy Grail and the Holy Blood').  <br /> <br /> The 'India/Kashmir' link is convincing, because nobody there gets hysterical about it. The 'Issa' legend is part of their culture. They have nothing to prove - or disprove, it is simply part of the 'spiritual landscape' - co-existing with other religious teachings. Conversely, the most vociferous critics of the 'Jesus-in-India' story, are those have the most to lose - because it undermines their cherished monopoly on the truth.  <br /> <br /> For many people, the historical 'Jesus' will seem that much more real - for being the 'Lord Issa' (or Yuz Asuf) referred to in Kersten's book, rather than less so. My only complaint with Kersten's book, apart from overlooking the 'Jesus bloodline' link in Kashmir, is that the 'doctrinal' considerations within its pages are frequently 'patchy' - even tendentious, which could persuade some critics to discount the whole book. For instance, Kersten refers (p.91)to Buddhists in 'white clothes' -as if it were a characteristic hall-mark, but the Buddhist Sangha has never worn white. It is the hall-mark of the laity. Again, it wasfutile, endevouring to show (P.117)that Ammonius Saccus(spelt sakkas, in Kersten's text) - derived the second part of his name (saccus) - from Shakya, the clan name of the Buddha. It meant 'sac' - as in carrying stuff, and it is a well documented fact that Ammonius Saccus worked as a day labourer. <br />Kersten also allowed his enthusiasm to get the better of him, when alleging (ibid.) that Plotinus - the main disciple of Ammonius Saccus, ended up teaching Origen, an early Church Father. However, the 'Origin' connected with Plotinus was an entirely different person - not the early Church Father. This error was understandable, insofar as the Church Father (Origin) referred to by Kersten, included references to 're-birth' and the pre-existence of the soul in his writings. However, he did not study under Plotinus, and was not, therefore, the spirit- ual 'grandson' of a 'Buddhist' (sic) Ammonius Saccus. Alas, ill construed remarks of this sort could lend power to the elbows of Kersten's detractors, which is a pity, for much of what he has to say is worth serious consideration. There were plans to open up the Tomb in Kashmir, alleged to be that of Jesus. Unfortunately, this project was thwarted by the outbreak of armed conflict in the locality. However, now that unrest in the Kashmir region shows signs of cooling down, this project could well be resumed. If resumed, successfully yielding artifacts and remains, proving it to be the final resting place of Jesus in his earthly incarnation, it would have far-reaching consequences. The established churches' would rush into denial, of course, but in the greater leven of life, it would break down all sorts of religious 'fences' - and give inter-fath dialogue an edge, like never before. I find that exciting.	2004-11-30
US	16056234	R38P6U6GDTY0T6	0834800799	100903414	Zen Mind, Beginner's Mind: Informal Talks on Zen Meditation and Practice	Books	3	17	30	N	N	Highly recommended with serious reservations!	Life isn't always that simple - yep! It would be arrogant to think that all the good reviews - are misguided. This book has obviously helped a lot of people. But - hasn't anyone twigged the fact that isolated things in it are simply nuts. What !!! Heresy !!!<br /><br /> What do I mean? Well, its simple. Shunryu Suzuki condoned suicide in this book, citing the example of Sen-no-Rikyu's suicide as an example of Buddhist 'acceptance.' Maybe the offending passage has been removed since the first ed. Don't know, haven't checked reprints. Suzuki didn't even provide the background details,which concerned Hideyoshi ORDERING Sen-no-Rikyu to commit seppuku (ritual suicide)- because of various suspicions. Hideyoshi had felt 'up-staged' when the tea master had his own statue erected over the gate at Daitokuji. Secondly, Hideyoshi had confided many things to the tea-master. Fearing this might endanger his position of authority (Sen-no-Rikyu evidently shared 'confidences' with other people), Hideyoshi decided to play it safe - and exercised his power, ordering the tea-master to kill himself.<br /><br /> This - very briefly, is the background to the story.<br />It has NOTHING to do with Zen, and everything to do with feudal POWER in Japan. It is about unquestioning OBEDIENCE, the invisible steel wires that regulated old Japan. The kind of 'acceptance' found in Buddhism - has nothing to do with such controls. Put in a modern context, it is like a wacky dialogue between a company boss and employee:<br /><br />  Boss: \\"Listen Jones, I'm not happy with your performance<br />  this past year or so. I order you to jump out off<br />  the window on the 73rd floor. \\"<br /><br />  Jones: \\"Yes, boss . . .aaaaaaahhhhhhh. \\"<br /><br />Get real! Would any of you take such orders, or see sense in that kind of 'acceptance'? Why, then, is it so palatable, because it is conveyed by a Japanese Buddhist teacher?<br /><br /> A final point. I didn't write the book, or invent Japanese history. I am merely pointing out the problem.lem.	2004-11-30
US	16056234	R2I37TIGVO31FF	1556432747	542505775	Sex, Orgasm, and the Mind of Clear Light: The Sixty-four Arts of Gay Male Love	Books	1	12	72	N	N	Problematic	Everyone is worthy of compassionate understanding. Some people are just constituted differently. Nevertheless, re-writing this book to serve the gay community is problematic, when the underlying premise of the original (Tibetan) text was the ultimate union of the 'yab-yum' (Tibetan equivalent of yin-and-yang) - the 'male' and 'female' principles in the cosmos. Does it make any sense, when viewed as a union of two 'yabs' or two 'yums'? Without 'yab-yum' - none us could be born in the first place, the same applies to the phenomenal universe. How much so, then, must the ultimate union embrace finding ourselves in a 'union of the opposites.' Can you have a magnet, with two 'north poles' or two 'south poles'? Wil your electrical utilities work, with two positive or two negative wires? We all know the answer to that.	2004-11-29
US	16056234	RYFJGZ667ODIA	0520237986	173836383	Seeing through Zen: Encounter, Transformation, and Genealogy in Chinese Chan Buddhism	Books	4	14	22	N	N	"There is no wisdom and no gain. " Heart Sutra	Studies of this type were perhaps inevitable. Following in the footsteps of Dr.Hu Shih, John McRae questions the 'orthodox' in-terpretation of Ch'an (Zen) history. Like many others, however, I feel that he has made too much of certain arguments. Some things may be less than clear, about the early Ch'an tradition and its geneologies etc. However, the primary sources which shaped the Ch'an tradition - the T'ang masters, were very real people - and, for the most part - what has come down to us today - in their records, is a faithful reflection of what they had to teach. <br /> <br /> John McRae makes much of 'sectarian' identities - but, did the T'ang masters encourage people to cling to such things? Masters like Ma-tsu and Shih-t'ou used to send their disciples back and forth, between each other's temples. Like Hu-shih, John McRae is keen to make it known that figures such as Hui-neng were made to bolster an 'ideological' position but, in actual fact, Hui-neng's Altar Sutra includes the story of his encounter with Yung-chia, a joint T'ien-tai/Ch'an master. Given John McRae's position, we should expect to find a 'triumphalist' account of Ch'an here - but, it actually acknowledges that Yung-chia was enlightened - and that he could hold his own - with Hui-neng. So - where's the obsession with 'sectarian' identities? The Ch'uan Teng Lu (Transmission of the Lamp) - technically a 'Ch'an-school' document, contains the records of several T'ien-tai masters.  <br /> <br /> John McRae dismisses almost everything about Hui-neng as a fiction- but, if he cares to visit to Pao-lin temple one day, not far from Canton, he will find Hui-neng's body, seated in the meditation posture. It has been there since 713, interestingly enough - in proximity to the body of an Indian master, who had predicted Hui-neng's birth and future career. Are the Buddhists who venerate this place - misguided fools? When it comes to it, the Ch'an school has not occupied the narrow horizons suggested in John McRae's account. You will find people practicing 'Pure Land meditation in Ch'an temples - and Master Yung-Ming wrote his monumental 'Tsung Ching Lu' (Record of the Source-Mirror), helping to explicate how all Buddhist teachings - as 'upaya' can be harmonised in the 'One Mind.' This affords a perspective quite different to that presented in John McRae's account. By default, perhaps, people now discriminate - and cling to sectarian identities. But is there a single T'ang master - on record, telling us to 'cling' to anything?	2004-11-25
US	16056234	R3D5Z3L16JSBRB	0960985417	642262177	Poetry of Enlightenment: Poems by Ancient Ch'an Masters	Books	3	4	9	N	N	More sandgains in the Ganges	Many people will enjoy reading these Ch'an gathas (verses). However, in places, I felt certain misgivings about the commentary material. For instance, I wondered if the dismissive remarks (p. 45)about Yung-chia's iJpn. Yoka Daishi) T'ien-tai (Jpn. Tendai) background were justified, as if the merits of the 'Cheng Tao Ke' or 'Song of Enlightenment' had to be seen wholly as the fruit of Yung-chia's Ch'an training.@True, Yung-chia confessed that he had formerly devoted excessive attention to sutras and shastras etc. However, like a number of early Ch'an masters, Yung-Chia embraced a joint T'ien-tai/Ch'an practice. The T'ien-tai 'triple insight' and 'combined triple insight' (a Chinese adaption of samatha-vipsayana) refers to a dynamic practice, complementary to Ch'an. Hence, while Yung-chia certainly extolls Ch'an in his famous gatha, the 'Song of Enlightenment' could equally well be seen as a reflection of T'ien-tai based insight. Tao-yuan's 'Transmission of the Lamp' (Chuan Teng Lu) - technically a Ch'an school document, included several T'ien-tai masters. The picture here is not quite so black and white as we might suppose. The more 'formal' aspects of T'ien-t'ai are another matter.     Again, I was puzzled by the remarks about the Ts'ao-tung school's 'wu-wei' or 'Five Ranks' (p. 74) suggesting that they 'all have the same basis in enlightenment.' What is that supposed to mean? Though the Ts'ao-tung teaching alludes to 'five ranks,' what it boils down to, in practice, is a 'three way interplay' between - the 'guest' position, the 'host' position - and the host-in-host.' These are distinct phases of insight, and it is only in the final stage - that the distinctions, hitherto coined in the teaching - dissolve away. These shifts of emphasis are clearly emphasised in other Ts'ao-tung gathas - omitted from - or not found in, Sheng-yen's collection. Masters Tung-shan and Ts'ao-shan devised this teaching to help their students mature in their training. Hence, it seems misleading to generalise about it with amorphous distinctions.       A final point. A number of these gathas or verses have been translated before - with supplementary material closely connected with them. Whether as a token of respect to the translators - or as a matter of practical relevance to the reader, acknowledgement of this would have been fitting.	2004-11-24
US	16056234	R1ZTZ1O8ZKOAME	1855384167	870576977	I Ching: The Shamanic Oracle of Change	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Even the oracle of change, changes - in non-change	It is astonishing how new 'Yi-Ching' material keeps appearing, some useful, some not (too much of it is a poor rehash of what we aready had, or arbitrary reconstruction).Happily, this new version has an interesting slant - exploring the 'Shamanic' use of the oracle. Although this has entailed the exploration and consultation of ancient sources, in part reconstructing the outlook of an archaic milieu, it actually translates into a very 'hands-on' look at the Yi-Ching.' The contemporary poetry used to punctuate the text at various points could have been a disasterous mismatch, but on the contrary, Jay Ramsey's verses evoke the spirit of the text wonderfully. Exploring the his- torical background to the Yi-Ching is a fascinating enterprise - but, without some feeling for the Yi-ching, as a kind of living, organic entity, 'historical' reconstructions can be hopelessly boring. Martin Palmer -  and his collaborators have done a splendid job. Well informed but never ponderous, this is a sensitive and beautifully turned out piece of work.	2004-11-23
US	16056234	R26C5MVFVV9RMM	8121510023	16568511	The Surangama Sutra (Leng Yen Ching: Chinese Rendering by Master Paramiti of Central North India at Chih Chih Monastery, Canton, China, Ad 705	Books	5	29	30	N	N	A valuable guide for Buddhist meditation	This text is a meaningful guide to Mahayana meditation practice. The Famous Ming Ch'an (Zen)master, Han-shan, used the Surangama Sutra to check his own progress with meditation - and wrote an extensive commentary on its practical meaning. What makes this particular translation valuable, is that incor-porates key-elements from Master Han-shan's commentary.  <br /> <br />  The Surangama Sutra is very complementary to the Lankavatara Sutra, explaining much left unexplained, in the former - concerning the role of the 'Alaya-vijnana' (store conscious-ness). In the Surangama Sutra, the Buddha asks twenty five bodhisattvas to outline their favoured methods of meditation, which all converge - insofar as they entail transforming sense-data into wisdom, breaking up the influence of the alaya  <br />or 'store consciousness' - to reveal the true mind. <br /> <br /> This all quite practical. It is impossible to concentrate on - and sublimate,all six sense-organs and sense data, at once. Skilfully, then, this sutra teaches that - if one source of sense/data is sublimated - the other five will also be subli-mated, for they share one and the same root. Each Bodhisattva thus details a method of meditation, focusing on sight, touch, taste etc. The method most praised by the Buddha - and reco- mmended for the present Dharma-age,is that of sublimating the sense of 'hearing' - as advocated by Avalokitesvara. The sense of 'hearing' is the most pervasive, and therefore, likely to maximize the opportunity for insight. Viewed negatively, of course - the impact of 'sound,' unwelcome 'noise,' is what many meditators wish to avoid, most of all. It is fascinating then, to find that it is this very 'devil' - which has been singled out - as especially helpful. It blows large holes in the misguided notion that Buddhist meditation is about AVOIDING sense data. It is not - it is about SUBLIMATING sense data. In fact, eminent masters like Han-shan purposely chose to prac-tice by roaring cataracts -to develop their meditation. The optimistic note here, then, is that very the 'things' which SEEM to be obstacles to Buddhist meditation, may well prove to be the biggest boon, if we direct our meditation aright. This is brilliant stuff and pre-eminently useful. It helps explain those Ch'an (Zen) stories, recounting experiences of awakening, upon the impact of a random noise, shout etc. But this has its own dynamic. Without the direct 'inner-cause' - the inner potentiality aroused by Ch'an or parallel methods, no amount of external 'causes' could trigger enlightenment).    <br />	2004-11-23
US	16056234	R2N416TGE1L1N1	0877730342	665419391	Wheel of Life: The Autobiography of a Western Buddhist (Shambhala Dragon Editions)	Books	5	25	25	N	N	The diary of a Buddhist pilgrim	John Blofeld's autobiography, giving account of his long travels in Buddhist Asia (chiefly China), is an inspiring and honest one. It is probably more inspiring, because of his reticence. Few Western Buddhists - writing books of this type, have detailed the deeper aspects of the Buddhist life. Despite evident inspiration, Lama Anagarika Govinda, Madame Alexandra David-Neel et al, actually said relatively little about peak experiences. In fact, few Asian Buddhists have left biographies, detailing their inner life. Dogen's account amounts to a few lines - where 'peak' experiences are concerned. Hakuin is an exception to this - detailing all sorts of psycho-spiritual changes. The Ming Master Han-shan gave good account of his experience of meditation. Hsu-yun (1840-1959) touched on some of his experiences, but modestly, for a man who lived to be 119 years of age, 100 of them in the Sangha.      Admittedly, there is a kind of unfulfilled yearning in J.B.'s autobiography, made that much more poignant by his expectat-ions and an impending sense of coming in sight of his goal. The first edition of WOL left it open ended. The sequel, added to later editions, did, in some ways, lend a dispiriting tone to the end of the book. Still, it is worth remembering that J.B. was in China - in the years leading up to the civil war and the eventual triumph of Chinese Communism. Such events shook up the foundations of Chinese Buddhism - and, the foundations of Buddhism in Tibet. John Blofeld re-settled - out of necessity, in Thailand, at which time, there was little room to feel optimistic about the fate of Buddhism in China and Tibet. He had been cut off from the people and places which had inspired him,in his youth. What he had to say, about his years in Buddhist China etc., therefore constitutes a precious account.	2004-11-23
US	16056234	RSM8QANRNX80I	1852306696	147097990	I Ching: The Classic Chinese Oracle of Change : The First Complete Translation With Concordance	Books	4	16	17	N	N	Masters of the Universe	This version of the Yi-Ching evidently suits some people. But I have a number of reservations about it. It's strong point is that it consciously taps into a 'Jungian' agenda. Jung's ideas are certainly complementary to aspects of the Yi-Ching. But this 'Jungian' perspective is exaggerated, affecting the way the material is approached. My chief reservation here, is the way the translation was kept semantically vague, in the hope that it would somehow reflect something of the open-ended quality of the Chinese text. In this respect, the authors try - perhaps too hard, to do their readers work for them, unpacking bits of line symbolism piecemeal, without making their intrin- sic connection clear. I suppose this was meant to widen the psychological parameters - presenting a kind of larger 'Rorcharch' ink-blot to look out, as it were. It was an interesting experiment - which has its applicability, but at times, the readings seem needlessly obscure. For example, in  <br /># 7 Shih: The Army - why be so literal, putting 'Left' - when it is clear that 'Left' means to be in 'retreat' - and 'right,' to advance. Again, it seems arbitrary to translate 'chang-tzu' as 'Longer-lived brother' - when it clearly means 'elder-brother' - in contrast to the Ti-tzu, or younger brother. Why this excessive thirst for unpacking detail? - when the primary symbols - from the Chinese point of view, are the 'kua' (i.e. trigram relationships). Although the authors noted the 'inner' and 'outer' trigrams etc., their relevance is almost displaced, by the focus on breaking down line texts. When it comes to a 'Jungian' type approach to the Yi-Ching, I don't think anyone has bettered Carol Anthony's books -summing up the archetypal situations reflected in the kua/hexagrams, without all this semantic obfuscation.  <br />   @	2004-11-22
US	16056234	RUFYCZFEGEP5J	0824822846	283930209	Zen Sand: The Book of Capping Phrases for Koan Practice (Nanzan Library of Asian Religion and Culture) (Multilingual Edition)	Books	4	15	17	N	N	cum grano salis	Sogen Hori deserves credit for giving us the most complete translation of 'Zen capping phrase' material(jakugo). Besides the Zenrinkushu (ZRKS), he has also presented material from the Zengoshu (ZGS). Some Zen temples will insist on using the latter. Hence, those wishing to undertake training with 'jakugo' will find what they need - in 'Zen Sand. '     So - why only 'four stars'? The answer, regrettably, is that the supplementary material - introductory chapters, glossary etc., seem to have been put together in haste. It looks impressive - but, something of a 'tour de force.' Too many issues are 'fudged' and hopelessly vague. A glaring example of this, is Hori's circular deliberations about the status of the 'jakugo' in the ZRKS. Despite presenting the ZRKS phrases - for use, Hori questions their relevance, suggesting that Hakuin's reforms probably rendered them redundant (p. 82). Only a few lines later, Hori admits that \\"it is not known what these reforms consisted of, or who was responsible for them.\\" In the next few lines (ibid.), Hori swings back into the affirmative, telling us that - 'Rinzai monasteries everywhere' now use the the 'Hakuin-no-kenge' - or koan responses accepted by Hakuin. But - having told us that such reforms may not have been Hakuin's at all, why put the matter back in Hakuin's mouth? The chances are that the 'fixed' koan responses alluded to here were introduced by Hakuin's successors in the Inzan Ien/Takuju Kosen lines, another matter. Of this, we learn nothing. All too vague when it comes to pinning doubts on the suitability - or otherwise, of the ZRKS.       Amorphous distinctions abound. In one place (p.95) we are told that 'Rinzai capping phrase practice is . . .carried on only in Japan,' but elsewhere (p.44) Hori refers to this innovation as a return to the 'origins' of the tradition. Alas, a number of Hori's comments cast doubt upon his familiarity with the 'original' tradition. For reasons best known to himself, Hori avers (p.69 )that 'dokusan' was more or less a Japanese innovation, relatively rare in the Chinese temples. But the practice of 'ju-shih' or 'entering the master's room for special instruction' features in many Ch'an records - viz. Lin-chi, Mu chou etc. An early instance of it, can be found in the story of Hui-neng's 'secret interview' with the Fifth patriarch. Wu Cheng-en even alluded to it in his novel, Hsi-yu Chi. Besides, it was listed in the very 'rule books' (ching-kuei/shingi) brought over from China to Japan, the only difference being that - in China, it was left to the discretion of the student - when to call on the master. Chinese temple regulations made provision for it, which is even physically evident, in the ground-plans of temples brought over from China, giving prominence to the 'Fang-chang' (Jpn. hojo) or 'Abbot's room.' Despite the sinophile pretensions, Hori has a tendency to project his own preconceptions into the 'origins' of the tradition - as in a puzzling reference to the koan being developed or taking shape 'outside' the monastery, while the practices 'inside' - remained 'Indian' viz. the 'chih-k'uan' practices of Chih-yi. In fact, Chih-yi's T'ien-tai teaching was equally part of the sinification of 'Indian' Buddhism and intimately tied up with the development of Ch'an/Zen. There is little evidence to suggest that the 'koan' evolved outside Ch'an temples. It emerged from the dialogues characteristic of life in the Ch'an monasteries. What Hori probably had in mind, was the inter-action between Chinese Ch'an monks and the secular literati - in Sung China - but, that is late in the day, and putting the cart before the horse.       Again, not everyone will agree with Hori, when he suggests (p. 11) that the 'koan' is only indescribable, in the sense that the 'aroma of coffee' is indescribable. This is merely a kind of empirical truism. Surely, the 'vertical' aspect of the koan is indescribable, because the subject-object relationship - as conventionally conceived, no longer obtains. What can be described - is the 'guest' view. None of the T'ang masters ever tried to speak of the 'host' - showing their open hands - or returning to their room, to indicate the return of 'function' (guest) to the 'host' (substance). . .       The glossary suffers from kindred weaknesses. Whole pages have been devoted to dynastic founders, statesmen, generals, poets and the 'dramatis personae' of Chinese history, yet key Zen figures, idioms etc. get scant attention. For instance, Lin-chi's 'three essentials' and 'three mysteries'(sanyo/sangen) merit little more than pedestrian comments - viz. (p. 717) \\"in the early stages of practice, it is better to regard these as 'Zen insight' \\" - in short, no 'gloss' - no 'explanation' at all. Rinzai has faded into a kind of after-thought. People will value Sogen Hori's work - for the main entries. The commentary material is another matter, somewhat problematic. I wouldn't question the worth of Hori's main text-entries, or the use of jakugo as such, but without discretion, it could simply end up as a kind of 'glasperlenspiel.' For a more user-friendly approach, take a look at the 'Zen Grove Handbook' by Zenrin R. Lewis.	2004-11-22
US	16056234	RWMOPE70GGX84	1557000018	502015748	The Secret Doctrine: The Synthesis of Science, Religion, and Philosophy (2-volume set) (Synthesis of Science, Religion, and Philosophy 1977 Facsimil)	Books	5	22	29	N	N	A prelude to the nameless truth	Well worth the positive reviews - which restricted themselves to what H.P.Blavatsky actually had to say in the S.D. Too much review space seems to have been dedicated to 'defending' - or 'refuting,' ideas not explictly found in Blavatsky's book.  <br />At the worst, this includes reviews making the S.D. a prelude to the work of Samael Aun Weor. The 'larger picture' alluded to by H.P. B. was not a hint that some future writing/s would fill in the gaps, but that it was incumbent upon individuals to discover the 'larger picture' - for themselves. <br /> <br /> As for the hysteria over the allegedly 'rascist' elements in H.P.B's work, it was a relief to find one reviewer reminding us that Theosophy advocates the pursuit of truth \\"without distinction of race, creed, sex, caste or colour. \\" Nuff said?    <br /> <br />	2004-11-21
US	16056234	R2ZL5S9TMKN6OU	0834802139	396250873	A Zen Life: D.T. Suzuki Remembered	Books	4	3	3	N	N	We all owe this man a debt	The essays in this book bear ample testimony to the creative influence D.T. Suzuki exerted upon those came within the orbit of his mind. He was the man who gave the West its first taste of 'Zen' - and, for many years, any mention of this Far-eastern form of Buddhism was almost synonymous with the name of D.T. Suzuki. Some Japanese roshis deemed Suzuki's approach too bookish, referring to it as 'Suzuki-Zen' to qualify the difference between their own approach - and Suzuki's own. But - the traits which made some roshis suspicious of Suzuki's work - were the very traits which enabled Suzuki to communicate his ideas with such success. He helped shape the thought of a whole generation - perhaps two, paving the way for other things to follow - which would not have been possible, had Suzuki adopted a narrow, parochial outlook. We all owe Suzuki a debt in that respect, and one of the first things the reviewer did - after arriving in Japan, years ago, was to visit the Suzuki family-grave in Kita-Kamakura, to offer a heart-felt 'gassho'!      Of late, attention has been drawn to the more problematic aspects of Suzuki's thought - namely, his support of 'Imperial way' Buddhism and the nationalistic spirit that drove Japan down the road to WW2. Brian Victoria has touched on this mat-ter in his 'Zen at War.' These dubious traits are more evident in Suzuki's Japanese writings. Even so, odd passages in Suzuki's English writings have given the reviewer pause - at times. On close reading, isolated passages in 'Zen & Japanese Culture' (ZJC)smack of 'Nihon-shugi' - as against the more innocent 'Nihon teki rei-sei.' Though little was said on the matter, parts of ZJC digressed on the 'fact' that China had 'lost' its Zen culture' - whereas Japan had preserved it, making it permeate every facet of life, probably an allusion to the nascent 'Imperial way' Buddhism. But - was Suzuki really so 'anti-Chinese' at the time? Paradoxically, Suzuki's most well known writings - the 'Zen essays' trilogy - focus almost entirely on Chinese T'ang sources - rarely mentioning the Japanese Zen schools at all - hardly the trait of a Japanese Buddhist writer obsessed with nationalism.       In the 'Essentials of Zen' - we find Suzuki declaring that Zen might 'find itself wedded to fascism . . .' - almost as if it were a matter of indifference. For a while, at least, it seems that Suzuki allowed himself to be seduced by nationalist ferver, not altogether in keeping with his Buddhist principles. This issue is complex, for Suzuki otherwise embodied a certain internationalism. He was working for Paul Carus - in America, before the turn of 20th c. - and later married an American woman - Beatrice Lane. Suzuki had lifelong ties with Christmas Humphreys, the English Q.C. (High Court Judge) who founded the Buddhist Society, London, and served as its president. As is well known, throughout his long life, Suzuki spent many years as a guest lecturer in American universities, with extended lecture-tours in Europe, besides. I remain wary of the 'wobbly bits' in Suzuki's work - but, whatever we may deem culpable in it, he certainly redeemed himself in the post-war years and became a firm friend.	2004-11-21
US	16056234	R243IZ5SJJI87	1570621381	723757358	Living Dharma	Books	5	15	15	N	N	A very inspiring book!	This book is one of those 'classics' - it will always bring inspiration. The twelve different teachers/teachings which comprise the core of the text - come over as very real, very concrete - and, for all the exotic surfaces (they are, after all, S.E. Asian people) - what they have to say, to teach, is very much here and now.  <br /> <br /> Jack Kornfield writes about these people and teachings with years of experience behind him. Still, he isn't (thank goodness!) trying to sell you an institution.This book has been presented to help you practice, wherever you may be. Of course, on one level - the teachers/teachings in this book are interesting, because they reflect a certain culture and out-look. This is Theravada Buddhism. Sometimes, the Theravada can come over as rather dry. But in 'Living Dharma' - the Theravada teachings seem very fresh and engaging.  <br /> <br /> The reviewer confesses that - in fact, he practices Northern Buddhist meditation techniques. Jack Kornfield observes that - in America, Theravada is a relatively late arrival - against Zen or Tibetan Buddhism. But - in Europe, the Theravada has roots going back decades. My first bona fide Buddhist teacher was a Theravadin, and the Theravada has much to teach - even if you happen to practice Mahayana Buddhism. Far from feeling invidious - I really hope that Buddhists from all backgrounds will look at this book. The teachers are impressive. Their practical advice/instruction - priceless.     @	2004-11-19
US	16056234	R2ODLJBHOVSFLQ	0877730350	289120445	Vimalakirti Nirdesa Sutra (The Clear light series)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Right on! Leave your baggage at the door!	Now reprinted with the title 'Ordinary Enlightenment, this is a very inspiring sutra - especially relevant for Western Buddhists, given that many - if not most of us, have to make sense of the Dharma as lay-folk. Certain Buddhist schools (chiefly in S.E.Asia) tend to emphasize the monastic approach to Buddhism - but,the Vimalakirti Sutra teaches a more comprehensive approach, showing how to cultivate a 'non-abiding mind' - which is to say, a clear, open state of consciousness, no longer obstructed by distinctions such as 'worldly' and 'saintly' etc. It is not 'things' which hinder us - but our reaction to 'things' in terms of conditioned relativities. Hence, it was a trifle misleading to re-title this work 'Ordinary Enlightenment' - because what it actually teaches is 'inconceivable liberation' - the extraordinary shining through the ordinary - and so,in  sense, neither ordinary nor extraordinary, as we customarily make those distinctions. In their wisdom, I suppose Shambhala were trying to counter-balance titles like 'The Holy Teaching of Vimala-kirti' - which 'stink' of religiosity. Indeed, one English Buddhist has even claimed that Vimalakirti was not human, but a kind of illusory construct-bodhisattva - a hopeless and uninspiring distortion.      With wisdom and humour, layman Vimalakirti - the chief interlocuter in this sutra, brings out the spirit of this teaching of the non-dual mind. The inspiring thing, is that - as a layman, he encounters various bodhisattvas etc. - meeting them on their own ground, on the strength of the non-dual wisdom aroused by his own practice. He teaches us to take up our spiritual 'home' in the unconditioned - even as we go through daily life, using the 'conditioned' - to discover the unconditioned. Hence, all the 'defilements' (klesa) and things which might otherwise bother us - become the 'material' we use to discover the unconditioned . . .for that is what they are - RIGHT NOW. The notion that KLESA IS BODHI - that there is anintrinsic identity between 'defilement' and the 'enlightened' Mind - seems to bother some people. But there is nothing shallow about it. After all, if we do not awaken to the non-abiding Mind, we cannot see this sublime truth. As Vimalakirti says, when the Mind is 'pure'- the 'realm' we happen to appear in - is also pure. The teaching in this sutra also transcends prejudice over gender. Female goddesses transform into men, then back into female form, blowing away the whole problem! - just as the distinction between 'sangha' and 'laity' ultimately dissolves in the unconditioned.        To put it in contemporary language - this sutra is 'mind blowing! It resonates well with Zen training - and it is not hard to see why it has been popular with Zen Buddhists. There are now two or three translations of this sutra in English. They are all worth looking at - but, Lu Kuan Yu's translation and notes are spot-on, having understood the nuance of the text - as a practising Buddhist. Other versions may well be more fastidious over technicalities of one sort or another. Nobody in China or Far-east has felt bothered by the fact that there might be one or more translations of a given sutra.	2004-11-19
US	16056234	R3CVUNTBQUJF8K	0877287953	587560427	001: Ch'an and Zen Teaching, Volume 1	Books	5	21	21	N	N	Priceless, practical teachings!	I discovered Chan & Zen Teachings nearly forty years ago, and  - despite the proliferation of books on Ch'an (Zen) since then - Chan & Zen teachings remains the clearest account I have seen, detailing what Chan practice is about. Hsu-yun's (1840-1959) teaching is particularly outstanding.Although a Chan(Zen) monk (for a century - surely ample experience!),the teachings Hsu-yun delivered at the 'Chan Weeks' session - recorded in Luk's text, were for the benefit of monks and lay followers alike. His teaching on hua-t'ou practice can be put into effect anywhere, regardless of surroundings etc. What Hsu Yun says about taking the 'host' position, the 'feeling of doubt' etc.  -is very lucid, without the artificial 'stress and strain' - found in some contemporary accounts. This provides an excellent preliminary to the Ch'an anecdotes in the following chapters, and helps to explain the strange seeming gestures and idioms often employed by Ch'an masters. The final chapter of this book is invaluable, because it contains master Han-shan's commentary on the Heart Sutra, also stressing the 'host' position - as hinted at by master Hsu-yun. The Second Series of Ch'an and Zen Teachings outlines the teaching methods employed by the origin- al 'Wu-chia' or Five Ch'an schools. These will be found to be highly complementary, something of a relief, after the stark divisions read into them in the present day. The Third Series contains Hui-neng's teachings, Yung chia's Cheng Tao Keh or 'Song of Enlightenment' - along with the Sutra of Complete Enlightenment. All of Luk's texts are provided with helpful but unobtrusive footnotes, informative glossaries. If you wanted a 'portable roshi' - this collection is a pretty good bet! Master Hsu-yun was the most eminent Chinese master in the last century - and Hsu-yun encouraged Lu Kuan Yu (Charles Luk) to undertake these translations.	2004-11-18
US	16056234	R17JSKGPZ14OBR	0802131840	109628591	Bankei Zen: Translations from the Record of Bankei	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Get back - to where it all belongs . . .da da da!	Not a lot to add to what's already been said in previous reviews - besides the fact that Bankei is (or has been) grossly under-rated. He is refreshing - after the institutional Zen claptrap and posturing, which leaves us stranded in the same old gunk we hoped to extricate ourselves from. Still, I would qualify a few things. Bankei did not claim to have originated anything startlingly 'new' - with his notion of the 'Unborn Mind.'It is there in the teachings of the early Chinese masters.  <br /> <br /> Again, some worry that Bankei didn't recommend 'striving' - or didn't 'strive' himself - but, his biography makes his questing mind clear. Hakuin - for example, didn't altogether approve of Bankei. Yet Bankei might be said to have had a 'natural' koan, insofar as his deep questioning sprang from the failure of Confucian teachers (and whoever else he could find) to explain what \\"brightening the bright virtue\\" (mei-toku) actually meant.  <br /> <br /> The point is, we ought not to adopt arbitrary views about the place of a questing 'doubt' - in Zen practice.Bankei asks why we should saddle ourselves with an arbitrary 'doubt.' But that's it, the 'doubt' should not be artificial. Bankei had his own doubt, and without it - he wouldn't have been driven to dis-cover the 'Unborn Mind.' We must allow ourselves that privilege.   <br />	2004-11-18
US	16056234	R1KVZSHQGCKUOB	0850306590	839280798	The Alternative I Ching	Books	4	8	10	N	N	Wiggly oracles!	This translation of the Tai Hsuan Ching will interest anyone curious about Chinese oracular sources. Regrettably, however, Derek Walters succumbed to the temptation to try and 'up-stage' the Yi-Ching - with it. He alleges that the Yi-Ching is based on a rigid dualism, with no place for the creative role of human agency,and thus presents the symbolism of the Tai Hsuan Ching - as a superior system, alleging that it alone, accords human agency its proper role in the cosmic process.@However, this argument is seriously flawed. Anyone familiar with the Yi-Ching, would know that it is the 'san-tsai' (three primal  powers) - heaven, earth and man' - which underpin its system, NOT a mere dualism. This is evident in the 'TRIGRAM' structures of the Yi-Ching, which presuppose that human agency is inter- woven with the cosmic process. The 'Tso Chuan' section of the Yi-Ching states \\"Heaven, earth and man\\" - that is what comprises the Tao.  <br /> <br /> The principles embodied in Yi-Ching have influenced almost everything in Chinese culture. Its sexagenary cycles are reflected in the Chinese calendar, its principles are reflected in Chinese astrology, medicine, Taoist yogic arts,the martial arts,military strategy etc. By contrast, the role of the Tai Hsuan Ching has been marginal, barely shaping Chinese culture at all. For all that, the Tai Hsuan Ching is fascinating in its own way - and, it will surely be of interest to those otherwise engaged with the Yi-Ching. However, Derek Walters 'competitive' stance is likely to prove nugatory, putting people off.	2004-11-18
US	16056234	R2HX5OJO9K9OCD	0156999811	120952471	The Zen Koan: Its History and Use in Rinzai Zen	Books	5	20	22	N	N	A classic, in its own way	This was a ground-breaking work when it first appeared in 1966 - and, it deserved the good reviews received. It is a matter for regret that the larger work this material was extracted from (Zen Dust: The History of the Koan and Koan Study in Rinzai Zen, First Zen Institute, Kyoto, 1966) is out of print. Still, this portion, selected for reprint, has relevance for the general reader. The foreword and Part 1 was contributed by Ruther Fuller(Sasaki), Parts 2 & 3 by Isshu Miura Roshi. Ruth Fuller's introductory remarks provide a useful summary of the background to Rinzai Zen - including its roots in China. Parts 2 & 3 provides a fascinating account of the koan in the context of Rinzai practice - the focus mainly upon Hakuin's teachings. The material from Hakuin's Keiso dokuzui' dealing with the 'Five Ranks'(or Go-I)is particularly relevant, for it has been - and still is, neglected by other translators. This material comprises Hakuin's account of the Go-I teachings, devised by the Chinese Soto (Ts'ao-tung) masters. It is worth noting that Hakuin used to it to 'cap' his own training system. Anyone who feels inclined to make black and white distinctions between Rinzai and Soto Zen - should take a hint from this.      The extracts from the Zenrinkushu were translated beautifully, and these are accompanied by some delightful reproductions of Hakuin's art-work. All in all, this is an engaging and highly useful book. It is packed with fascinating remarks and notes.     I've had copies of this book around for more than thirty years, to show/loan to friends. The first copy was a gift from a friend who moored his boat on the river at the back of my house. Its pages were permeated with the fragrance of aged timber, life on the river, damp ropes, flowing tides, a hint of wood-smoke, kerosene. The atmosphere of the river permeated the book, and the intuitions in the book permeated life on the river. In that sense, it is an old friend.      However, one thing has always made me feeluncomfortable about the book - namely, the approving references - brief though they may be - to the Zen establishment's support of the Japanese militarists in the 20thc. This ought not to have been the case in the 1960's, under Japan's pro-peace constitution. After the war, people like Yanagida Seizan went through agonizing soul searching over this matter, deeply regretting the complicity between the Rinzai Shu and the militarists. The world has moved on, Japan has moved on. The Soto Shu has officially denounced its previous complicity in such matters, and it is high time for the Rinzai Shu to follow suit. How much longer must the names of Rinzai, Hakuin etc., be tied to this sorry matter? Humanity strives - as never before, to build a peaceful world, yet there are still those who would throw the world back into futile conflict. Buddhism is about compassion, and it behooves us to remember that. What's the point in all the precepts, bodhisattva vows - or even satori, if we can't bring peace to the world. Poor Buddha!	2004-11-16
US	16056234	R2YF96B9Y79L76	0965149943	50812013	Zen Grove Handbook	Books	4	14	14	N	N	Sandgrains in the Ganges	Less technical than Sogen Hori's 'Zen-Sand' - Robert Zenrin Lewis presentation of material from the Zenrinkushu is in many ways more accessible. Compiled under the aegis of Eido Shimano Roshi, what we find in the Zen Grove Handbook is the main entries(2770 in all)from the Zenrinkushu, minus any attempt on the author's part - to justify himself. Each entry contains (a)the Chinese phrase - helpfully in a pleasing, bold font, (b)a Japanese kana-based translation - and (c)an English translation. The only concession toward technicality' is practical - a skilful use of sub/supercript markings enabling the reader to reconstruct the syntax of the original Chinese sentences, otherwise presented in the order that they are read - with Japanese kana stresses, and a useful concord- ance - noting the primary sources from which the entries were culled. The text has an extensive bibliography - closely co-ordinated with the entries in the text.I gave the book four stars, because a few of the translations seemed a trifle odd. But hey! - why cavil? Give it six stars! There are 2770 entries. Zenrin Lewis encourages his readers to look at the originals. It deserves six stars for the overall merit. It's a very pleasing book.	2004-11-16
US	16056234	R1BEPIAUTN3MJ2	1578633079	218366612	Barddas: A Collection of Original Documents, Illustrative of the Theology Wisdom, and Usages of the Bardo-Druidic Systems of the Isle of Britain	Books	5	20	24	N	N	Well worth serious reading	Weiser deserve credit for making this reprint of the 'Barddas' available. A word of warning: unless you can read Welsh (and archaic Welsh, at that), it is unwise to scoff at the Barddas. Iolo Morganwg (Williams)had his foibles - yes, but that is no reason to discredit his work. It has been alleged that 'Iolo' fabricated much of the material found in the Barddas, but the National College Library in Wales(Aberystwyth) is full of such material. I did a preliminary survey of it - back in 1972, and was staggered by the amount available, as rich and mysterious, in its own way, as anything retrieved from far-flung caves in Tun-huang, or the sands of Egypt. Both in style and content, much found in the Barddas will be found stated - all over again, in Welsh sources untouched by Iolo Morganwg. Condescendingly, John Matthews introduction to the Weiser reprint, states that Iolo's ideas were 'clearly a product of laudanum inspired dreams' (p. xviii), even while conceding that it might contain some 'nuggets' of ancient wisdom. etc. So far as the Laudanum habit goes, it might be pointed out that it was then legal and fairly widespread among the gentry. Such matters are rarely invoked to criticise Coleridge, De Quincy, Conan-Doyle etc. W.Y. Evans-Wentz - no less, a Rhodes scholar, renowned for his work on the 'Tibetan Book of the Dead' - also happened to know Britain well. In his Celtic researches (cf. The Fairy Faith in Celtic Countries) - W.Y. Evans-Wentz deemed the Barddas to be a genuine and valuable source.	2004-11-16
