US	16058375	R2YZ58HV7LRWZU	0764584987	294389484	Phishing: Cutting the Identity Theft Line	Books	5	6	10	N	N	Must Read Info For Anyone Who Uses a Computer	Phishing attacks, or at least the number of phishing emails intercepted by Messagelabs, jumped more than 1700% from June through November of 2004. The Anti-Phishing Working Group has reported an average growth of 25% per month for websites devoted to stealing your confidential information and your identity.<br /><br />Phishing and identity theft are serious threats. However, as the authors point out early on in the book, identity theft has been around as long as there have been identities and is not unique to computers or the Internet. Phishing attacks are simply a new tool for identity thieves to use.<br /><br />Phishing provides the information that consumers need to understand the threat and the risks and arm themselves to safeguard their information and defend against phishing attacks. The book is not bogged down with dry detail, but provides a ton of useful and necessary information in an easy-to-read format.<br /><br />After reading this book, users will understand just how phishing works ad how it ties together with spam, spyware and other threats. Readers will also learn how to avoid becoming a phishing victim as well as who to contact or how to respond if they do.<br /><br />This is an excellent book that just about anyone who uses computers should read.	2005-09-09
US	16058375	R1BU0F24BK0K38	0072256753	428257605	Hacking Exposed Computer Forensics: Computer Forensics Secrets &amp; Solutions	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Great Information in Familiar Hacking Exposed Format	I am never really disappointed in any of the Hacking Exposed series of books. While some of the information may be redundant or appear in other books from the series, Hacking Exposed more or less built, never mind set, the bar for this type of book and each book in the series does an admirable, if not exemplary job of conveying the intended information.  <br /> <br />Following the familiar and proven style and format of the Hacking Exposed books, Davis, Philipp and Cowen explain the tools and techniques you need to understand to conduct a computer forensic investigation. They describe the issues and concerns you will face in establishing a chain of custody and ensuring that the evidence you collect will be admissable in a court of law and help you build a case.  <br /> <br />Mishandling data and forensic evidence may sink your case before it starts so it is important to understand the legal processes that cover computer forensic investigations and how to get past the hurdles you come upon.  <br /> <br />Forensic investigations are a particular interest to me and I found this book to be exceptionally informative and helpful in providing me with the tools and techniques I would need to conduct such an investigation.  <br />	2005-09-05
US	16058375	RDW1FMCNLP99Z	1593270526	605655	Ending Spam: Bayesian Content Filtering and the Art of Statistical Language Classification	Books	4	3	6	N	N	Very Good Information on Spam-Fighting Methodology	I am not an anti-spam expert and I don't speak fluent Bayesian, so a book like this needs to be written down to my level in order for it to make any sense at all. Jonathan Zdziarksi does a good job of addressing advanced, complicated issues, but putting it in terms that readers with an ounce of computer knowledge and experience can grasp.     The first few chapters of the book, possibly too much of the book, are devoted to an overview of the history of spam and the traditional techniques used to detect and filter spam. It is a good overview and helps to provide some foundation, but readers trying to learn Bayesian filtering or Markovian discrimination should probably already have an understanding of the essential concepts of spam.     Overall, I think this is a very good book. It is written with a style and content that is not so simplistic that you can't learn anything from it, and yet not so complex that you can''t learn anything from it either.     Spam blocking is essential in order for email to remain a viable form of communication. Getting 100% spam-blocking is virtually impossible as one person's spam is another's legitimate email, but reading Zdziarski's book wil definitely put you on the right track.   [...]	2005-08-29
US	16058375	R1WOPGKLU7OTPK	0321294319	886770569	Rootkits: Subverting the Windows Kernel	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Comprehensive and Authoritative Book On Rootkits	Greg Hoglund, co-author of Exploiting Software: How To Break Code, and Jamie Butler have written a comprehensive and authoritative reference for Windows rootkits.     Rootkits does not pull any punches or shy away from sharing details about the exact means and methods for manipulating the operating system and compromising computers at their root, or core, level. Rootkits have existed for some time, but were initially aimed primarily at UNIX systems. Only recently have rootkits for Windows gained attention.     There are those who will argue that a book like this does as much or more to help would-be hackers learn how to develop rootkits as it does to help administrators guard against them. My feeling is that a book like this, which sheds light on exactly how rootkits work and unveils the tricks they use, is necessary to building effective tools and defenses to guard against them.     The authors are progressive, referring frequently to their hacker as a female. The book is not for novices. It assumes some understanding of the C programming language and is aimed more at people who are already computer and/or security savvy, but want to expand that knowledge to include rootkits.     Overall, I highly recommend this excellent book.     [...]	2005-08-18
US	16058375	R3N2GR43PW4DZB	0764584685	311063890	Spies Among Us: How to Stop the Spies, Terrorists, Hackers, and Criminals You Don't Even Know You Encounter Every Day	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Excellent Reading For Everyone- Not Just Computer Security Professionals	This book is sort of like the how-to or nuts & bolts book to serve as a companion to Kevin Mitnick's The Art Of Deception. Winkler explains how the spies, terrorists or other malcontents of the world are able to penetrate network defenses and compromise apparently \\"secure\\" networks to gain access to sensitive and confidential information.     The book may be targeted primarily at information security professionals, but in my opinion that is short-sighted. The value of a book like this- one that demonstrates the ease with which information can be social-engineered from naive people- should be shared with the masses so that they develop an awareness and can help to combat such attacks.     Spies among us provides an excellent look at the methods and techniques that can be used to exploit and infiltrate a government or corporate network, but more importantly Winkler provides a number or tools and techniques that the reader can apply to help prevent such attacks.     Some of the information may be too technically \\"deep\\" for an average reader, but most of the book is fairly easy to read and the \\"cloak and dagger\\" stories may be appealing, if not frightening, to just about any reader.     Definitely worth reading for just about anyone.     [...]	2005-07-24
US	16058375	R2DRPNQ14JUPMT	1593270461	881905541	Silence on the Wire: A Field Guide to Passive Reconnaissance and Indirect Attacks	Books	5	13	14	N	N	This One Goes On The Short List of	Excellent!     Zalewski's book is packed with information. The level of detail and technical difficulty of a lot of the information seem to make the book geared more toward those already familiar with computer security and information warfare rather than security novices. Those who are familiar with computer and network security may feel that parts of the book are too basic or beneath the level they are looking for, but Zalewski generally has a goal in mind and is just laying the groundwork to build up to it.     Most people in computer security, and even home users with little understanding of network security, are familiar with the major types of overt attacks (viruses, worms, phishing scams, spyware, etc.) and the countermeasures to protect their systems (antivirus, antispyware, firewalls, IDS, etc.), but this book uncovers the ominous volumes of data that can be extracted and exploited using passive reconnaissance techniques.     The book is called a \\"Field Guide\\" in the subtitle and it reads more or less like one. It provides the information and details you need in the trenches to wage an effective war against information insecurity. This is one that I would dub a \\"must read\\" for anyone working directly with network security.     [...]	2005-07-24
US	16058375	R2880RURPQ4KE	1928994989	959431794	Hacking a Terror Network: The Silent Threat of Covert Channels	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Educational and Entertaining	I enjoyed this book and I think that many who would like to learn more about information security, or covert communications specifically, will benefit from this book. Steganography, encryption, and other areas of information security can be exceptionally dry subjects that many people may find hard to drudge through. Putting it into a cyber-thriller novel format helps convey it while providing some entertainment value at the same time.     That said, Russ Rogers is no Dan Brown or Stephen King. If you are expecting the storyline to be as gripping as The Da Vinci Code or Digital Fortress, you will most likely be disappointed.     Rogers also sacrifices some on the educational side in order to wrap the information into the storyline and keep it entertaining. So, if you are expecting Hacking Exposed or Hiding In Plain Sight, you will also be a tad disappointed.     But, the book serves it purpose and works well for the audience it was intended for. Movie critics will often slam movies for nit-picky technical reasons that nobody really cares about. In the end, if the movie entertains you for 90 or 120 minutes, it was probably worth the price of the ticket. This book will teach you and entertain you and is worth the price to read it.    [...]	2005-06-26
US	16058375	R2H5UTG44XD8SL	0072257091	131668784	Gray Hat Hacking : The Ethical Hacker's Handbook	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Broad Range of Information Collected In One Place	One of the issues I had with the book is that it has multiple personalities, in multiple ways. First, having multiple authors colaborate means that different chapters sometimes have a completely different tone and feel than other chapters. So, you might \\"click\\" with one of the authors, but find it difficult to follow a different author's chapter.<br /><br />The other way that the book has multiple personalities is that it seems to try to provide 3 distinct different types of information in the same book. Part of it is reverse-engineering and shell-coding, part of it is programming secure code and part of it is the concepts of hacking and the tools and techniques used.<br /><br />That has both pros and cons. In some ways it lacks what may be found in books more focused on just one of those topics such as Exploiting Software or Hacking Exposed. But for those looking for breadth of information, this book provides a lot of content in one place.<br /><br />Issues aside, I thought the information was excellent and I recommend that security administrators and programmers take a look at this book.<br /><br />(...)	2005-05-09
US	16058375	R13M7A0QFJ1F3B	1593270011	773938431	The Book of Postfix: State-of-the-Art Message Transport	Books	4	4	7	N	N	Excellent Guide To Configuring and Administering Postfix	It had been a while since I had done any email server installation or administration and my past experience was primarily with Microsoft Exchange and Lotus Notes. I had never actually installed or configured Sendmail, or its formidable competition, Postfix.     From reading different lists and forums, it seems that Postfix has many fans, but there are also many pitfalls one encounters in trying to learn things the hard way and install the application. Using Hildebrandt and Koetter's book, that no longer seems to be a problem. At least, it wasn't for me.     The authors seem to have walked through an installation as they were writing and made note of the various quirks and the more important aspects to make sure they conveyed them clearly. However they did it, the book does an excellent job of walking the reader through a wide variety of scenarios and clearly explaining the best way to get through them.     The security features of Postfix make it an excellent choice for setting up a mail server, and The Book of Postfix will help you get it set up and properly configured in a fraction of the time it would take you without the book.    (...)	2005-05-02
US	16058375	R3242XQTYE73G2	020163497X	561458846	Forensic Discovery	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Great Information from Two Network Security Legends	I have learned a lot from other computer forensics books such as Harlan Carvey's Windows Forensics and Incident Recovery or Kevin Mandia and Chris Prosise's Incident Response and Computer Forensics - 2nd Edition, but this one has a slightly different approach and conveys a lot of good, detailed information in a relatively concise book.     The book is aimed at readers who wish to gain a deeper understanding of how computer systems work, particularly system administrators or those who may actually be tasked with performing a forensic investigation. The book does assume some level of computer knowledge such as the basic concepts of networking, system processes or file systems and is not intended for pure novices.     Farmer and Venema focus a fair amount of attention on the concept of time and how to use it in a forensic investigation. They also highlight a sort of order of operations for how to proceed to try and ensure you retrieve volatile data before it disappears.     Computer forensics is an area of network and computer security that I am particularly interested in. This is an excellent book which I highly recommend. It is well-written and very educational, but it is also a fairly quick read.     [...]	2005-04-11
US	16058375	R17I0RH14U8NQC	0385504209	315416156	The Da Vinci Code	Books	5	3	10	N	N	Excellent Thriller With Plenty To Make You Think and Wonder	This thriller focuses on Robert Langdon, a Harvard University professor of symbology, who is in Paris on a speaking engagement. He is awakened in the middle of the night by the French police and implicated in the murder of the Louvre Museum curator.<br /><br />With some help from a French police cryptographer, Sophie Neveau, who feels that he is being wrongly accused, he manages to escape and together they embark on a quest to find the real killer.<br /><br />That quest leads to clues, puzzles and riddles that link back to an ancient society tasked with protecting the truth about Jesus Christ and unlock the greatest secret in Western civilization.<br /><br />While the book is a work of fiction, Dan Brown has done an exhaustive amount of research to ensure that his explanations and depictions of history and the ancient societies that are featured in the book are as accurate as possible. I felt like<br />Brown did a good job of researching computer encryption algorithms and network security for his book Digital Fortress, but that research pales in comparison with both the depth and scope of the research for The Da Vinci Code.<br /><br />There is no shortage of critics of Brown's research or his depictions of events. When you introduce evidence and arguments which, if true, shake the foundation on which the entire religion of Christianity is based, there are bound to be skeptics.<br /><br />In Brown's defense, he is a writer first and foremost, not an art historian or theologian. In defense of Brown's research, he is not a heretic who thought up the concepts he describes. There are plenty of resources that agree with the version of history and events described in The Da Vinci Code.<br /><br />Frankly, even an art historian or a theologian in my opinion can not state for certain how things are. That is why it is called \\"faith\\". Brown's book gives you plenty to think about though in exploring the roots of that faith.<br /><br />(...)	2005-03-29
US	16058375	RPJJ5YH0JAVZG	1931836361	784868536	Google Hacking for Penetration Testers, Volume 1	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Required reading for network and security admins	If you are at the book store trying to decide if the book is worth spending $44.95, just flip open to Chapter 7: Ten Simple Security Searches That Work. This chapter alone is probably worth the price of the book.     There are some aspects of security that are core fundamentals that remain true throughout time. Then, there are some aspects of security that are created by new technology. A few years ago, securing wireless networks was unheard of. Now it is at the forefront of many security administrator's concerns. Google is the latest hot technology to create its own security field.     There are other search engines, but Google is the one that has become synonymous with the act of Web searching itself. Google is an excellent tool. But, like many excellent tools, it is also somewhat of a double-edged sword. The same aspects that make it excel at what it does also make it gather sensitive and private information which may be used to compromise systems or gain unauthorized access.     This book is a must-read in my opinion. Network and security administrators should be required to read this book and follow the advice at the end to ensure that Google hackers don't compromise your network.     (...)	2005-03-19
US	16058375	R3SQK6V99QK1EV	0321304527	169559619	Mapping Security: The Corporate Security Sourcebook for Today's Global Economy	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Excellent Resource For Doing Business Around The World	This book is not really a network security book. In reality, it is barely about computers or technology at all. This book is essentially a guide to doing business across cultural and physical borders.     Patterson does a pretty good job of explaining why a book like this is needed or how it can provide value to companies today. I have lived in different places throughout the world and I can attest to the fact that citizens of the United States look at the world through very 'USA-centric' glasses and this arrogance coupled with ignorance gives a bad impression to the citizens of other nations.     This is no secret or revelation per se, but Patterson helps bring it into the context of doing business and helping the reader understand how to cope with legal, ethical, cultural and societal differences while trying to do business in a global economy.     A good percentage of the book is dedicated to country-by-country breakdowns; providing pros and cons for doing business in each country and quantifying each with his MSI (Mapping Security Index) to enable a comparison of one country to the next.     Corporate executives and those responsible for negotiating international business should definitely read this book and keep it handy as a reference.     (...)	2005-03-02
US	16058375	R2PY2DGG22T6N	159327050X	632285537	Steal This File Sharing Book:  What They Won't Tell You About File Sharing	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Everything you need, and the RIAA doesn't want you, to know	I love Wallace Wang's Steal This Computer Book 3. In this book, Wang takes his best-selling knowledge and writing style and focuses it on a new subject- sharing files.     I learned a lot in the opening section. I have been familiar with peer-to-peer (P2P) networking since the advent of Napster, but I was not aware that such a wide variety of sources existed for finding and sharing files. Wang points out web sites, FTP sites, instant messaging and chat rooms and more where you can share files.     Even better than that, he doesn't just list sites, but rather provides in-depth analysis of many, explaining what is good or bad about the different resources and pitfalls to watch out for. He also includes many graphic illustrations which help you understand the information better.     This book sheds light on a number of \\"fringe\\" file sharing tools and resources. The mainstream is familiar with the likes of Kazaa and Morpheus, but Wang delves into many more tools. He points out some of the things to watch out for when using some of the shadier tools and networks as well.     The RIAA and MPAA may not like it, but in some way, shape or form, file sharing is here to stay and this book will help you find what you need and use file sharing securely.     (...)	2005-02-28
US	16058375	R3BRAY3RXKIY8H	0596007876	166873762	Knoppix Hacks: 100 Industrial-Strength Tips and Tools	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Must Have Book For Any Administrator	Any network or security administrator that has been around for awhile has their personal \\"toolbox\\" of go-to utilities and applications that they use for isolating and troubleshooting problems or just for maintenance and upkeep. Knoppix should definitely be in every administrator's bag of tricks.     The compact disc that comes with the book includes a bootable version of Knoppix along with useful tools and utilities to help you perform an array of tasks. Knoppix is as versatile as it is powerful and the \\"100 Industrial-Strength Tips & Tools\\" in this book will help you to understand and apply both the versatility and power of this great tool.     Just by booting a computer using the Knoppix CD you can perform a diverse range of tasks including setting up an emergency router, auditing network security, checking the system for root kits, resizing hard drive partitions, restoring deleted or corruped data and more. For Windows systems in particular, there is a tip to use Knoppix to safely download patches on a vulnerable machine and then reboot into Windows to apply the patch offline.     In the limited space I have, I can't really do the book justice. if you are an administrator, you need this book. Go get it.    (...)	2005-02-21
US	16058375	R2JWEX7CJWBU20	0321200985	613727786	Windows Forensics and Incident Recovery	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Invaluable Resource For Any Windows Admin	About a year ago I was investigating a system to try and determine if it was attacked, as well as when and how if it had been. I wrote for help to a list that I am on and Harlan Carvey responded with detailed and useful information that helped me out.    I asked Carvey at the time if there were a book I could get that would help me learn that stuff and he told me that he didn't want to be cocky per se, but that there really wasn't and that I would have to wait until his book came out. Now that I have it I think I would have to agree.     There are plenty of great books on computer forensics available, but none that go into the depth that Carvey does on the Windows operating system itself. The information he provides regarding how and where Windows hides information is invaluable for finding and recovering from an attack.     Carvey makes extensive use of PERL, rather than using the native Windows Scripting Host (WSH), and he explains that PERL is vastly more flexible and powerful than what Windows has to offer. He provides details for how to install it and the scripts from the book are on the accompanying CD.     I highly recommend this book for ALL Windows system administrators and anyone who investigates incidents on Windows systems.    (...)	2005-02-13
US	16058375	R2W2KWCLGFNOCI	0471444499	229028950	Hiding in Plain Sight: Steganography and the Art of Covert Communication	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Discover The Art of Hiding Data	Not knowing much other than the definition of steganography before opening this book I found it very easy to read and very informative.     Eric Cole has a background in working with hidden data and his experience is translated into a book that even users new to the concepts of covert communication can understand. The fictionalized stories of actual events help the reader to understand how these tools are used every day by both the good guys and the bad guys.     The book covers a basic history and background of cryptography and digital watermarking as well as steganography and then gets into more detail about the techniques and concepts of \\"stego\\". It does provide source code, but may not be \\"meaty\\" enough for steganography experts.    (...)	2005-02-10
US	16058375	RHOZDA0P8LB1Y	1928994598	197645883	Hackproofing Your Wireless Network	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Beam Your Data Through The Air Securely	Hack Proofing Your Wireless Network is an invaluable resource for implementing or administering a wireless network. War Driving (searching for random insecure wireless networks) is happening all over. To keep your personal and confidential information private and to keep prying eyes from surfing your wireless network or hujacking your bandwidth you need to make sure you do everything you can to secure your wireless network. The case studies, Security Alerts, FAQ's and other features of this book all help to provide a comprehensive, must-read book on wireless network security. If you are new to the concept this book is written in a way that you will understand. Even if you know this stuff, this book should be kept close as a reference.     (...)	2005-02-10
US	16058375	RG3ENE92OVPVE	0596006624	229043813	Hackers and Painters: Big Ideas from the Computer Age	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Insightful Vision From Graham	I found the opening chapter to be exceptionally insightful. Graham discusses in detail the culture of being a teen, particularly a teen in a public school setting, and what sets nerds apart. His description of the sort of \\"Lord of the Flies\\" hierarchy that is created is dead on in my opinion.     He points out that prison wardens primary duties are to keep the prisoners in one place, feed them, and keep them from killing each other. The school principal's job in many cases is only a small step up from that because the job is to keep the kids in one place, feed them, and keep them from killing each other and to attempt to provide some level of education at the same time.     I found the second essay equally compelling. Graham talks at length about how the world sees computer programming as a \\"science\\" when it is in fact more of an art. They compare programmers to physicists and mathematicians while Graham claims they are better compared with painters and other artists.     Common \\"wisdom\\" on computer programming suggests that the program should be well thought out and planned before the first line of code is typed. Graham suggests that programming is more of a living creation that is sketched and then fleshed out over time and that it takes on new life as it evolves to the final product.    (...)	2005-02-10
US	16058375	R39N253OGYGZJW	1593270070	198606865	Hacking: The Art of Exploitation w/CD	Books	4	15	18	N	N	Advanced Hacking and Exploit Techniques	People often talk about whether the hacker technique genre of books such as Hacking Exposed, Hack Attacks Revealed or Counter Hack actually do more to teach the next generation of hackers and crackers than they do to help educate people about security. Those books don't go to nearly the depth that Hacking: The Art of Exploitation does.     Jon Erickson picks up more or less where those other books leave off. He provides a look at techniques and tools used by hackers as well, but he also gives a more comprehensive look at stack overflows, heap overflows, string vulnerabilities and other commonly exploited weaknesses.     Rather than simply describing the vulnerabilities and their exploits theoretically or showing you how to use pre-existing tools to exploit the vulnerabilities, Jon Erickson provides the nuts & bolts you need to learn how to program your own exploit code.     Arguably, this information could very well be used by a hacker wannabe to learn how to break into machines illegally. However, like the other hacker technique genre books, the purpose is to educate so that we can better protect ourselves from such hackers.     Armed with the information in this book you can actively develop your own exploit code to conduct vulnerability and penetration testing- the results of which could be very valuable in helping to secure your networks and computers.     This is an excellent book. Those who are ready to move on to Level 2 should pick this book up and read it thoroughly.     (...)	2005-02-10
US	16058375	R5S1I4J4G5ZXQ	192899444X	321714324	Hack Proofing Sun Solaris 8	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Good Information, But Dated Material Now	I have never used a Sun Solaris system, but I found this book to be very informative and enlightening nonetheless. Hack Proofing Sun Solaris 8: Protect Your Network From Attack provides an excellent introduction to securing a Solaris 8 system. It covers everything from securing the installation out of the box, to securely implementing Solaris 8 as a web server, email server, firewall or router. The information is presented in a way that will teach someone new to administering Solaris security what they need to know, but it may lack the depth to teach a Solaris guru any new tricks. Although this book doesn't relate to the most current release of Solaris, most people trying to learn about securing Solaris will still benefit from reading it.     (...)	2005-02-10
US	16058375	R26VGDYZXCXDJT	0131402064	862441542	How Secure is Your Wireless Network? Safeguarding Your Wi-Fi LAN	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Wi-Fi Concepts and Security Techniques Most Can Understand	Wireless networks are popping up everywhere. They are hot for home users and for corporations. They are springing up in coffee shops and book stores. But, anyone can intercept those airwaves so you need to be sure that you know how to secure your wireless network and protect your network and your computers from prying eyes. How Secure Is Your Wireless Network? provides detailed coverage of the available wireless protocols and the pitfalls of each (like interference with common household devices such as cordless phones and baby monitors). This book is a very good resource, but may be a little too technical for the non-computer gurus. Barken does a good job of explaining most of the concepts and steps in relatively plain English though.    (...)	2005-02-10
US	16058375	R14F6WPJ55XZQ2	007222438X	230725003	Web Applications (Hacking Exposed)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Excellent Addition to Hacking Exposed Series	Companies go to great lengths to segregate their internal networks from the rest of the world. They implement firewalls and DMZ's to protect their computer systems from the malicious code flying about the public Internet. For the most part, companies can simply block incoming traffic from getting through to their network at all from the outside world. However, in order to host a web site the web server must be accessible from the public Internet. That means that the web server offers an inroad to the internal network if not configured properly.     Hacking Exposed- Web Applications: Web Application Security Secrets & Solutions by Joel Scambray and Mike Shema will show you what you need to know to protect your web servers. The authors explain how an attacker gathers information to identify target systems and seek out the vulnerabilities they can exploit to break in. They go into great detail to discuss the myriad of vulnerabilities on various platforms such as Apache, IIS, J2EE and more.     This book will help you understand just how much risk your web servers are exposed to- vulnerabilities within XML, cross-site scripting and other input validation attacks, SQL injection attacks and more. Thankfully, the authors go on to provide valuable information for how to guard against these attacks and ways to harden your web servers to protect them.     Anyone who administers a web server or develops web applications should read this book to understand the pitfalls and how to avoid them.    (...)	2005-02-10
US	16058375	RY226XDN82FS7	0072225645	808510638	Hacking Linux Exposed, Second Edition	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Must-Read Info For Linux Admins	The Hacking Exposed books have set the bar for this genre of security book. Hacking Linux Exposed - 2nd Edition doesn't fail in meeting that bar as well. If you've read Hacking Exposed - 4th Edition and think this book can't tell you anything you don't already know- think again. For those who administer Linux boxes this book provides an in-depth look at specific hacks and vulnerabilities unique to the Linux operating system and the accompanying fixes and workarounds to protect yourself. The book is overflowing with examples and sample commands that users can immediately put to use to better understand the risks and how to mitigate them. Hacking Exposed is a must-read for security- this book is a must-read for Linux security.     (...)	2005-02-10
US	16058375	R1FU2JMMGR6C18	1593270291	832905889	Hacking the Xbox: An Introduction to Reverse Engineering	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Put Your XBox To More Productive Use Than Shoot-Em-Ups	Hacking The XBox has become somewhat of a \\"martyr for the cause\\" of good hacking and reverse engineering in the face of the abuse and mis-application of the United States DMCA law. Companies continue to use fear tactics and threaten legal action against legitimate security researchers. Hacking The XBox is a great book - even without the DMCA hype. It walks you through the tools and techniques needed to hack electronic hardware- specifically the Microsoft XBox video game console. It has a broader appeal than that though with chapters regarding the legal and ethical issues surrounding reverse engineering and security research. I recommend this book even to those who don't want to hack an Xbox. It is an interesting and informative read.     (...)	2005-02-10
US	16058375	ROJMRCT3RWIWO	020171955X	26692106	Have You Locked the Castle Gate?: Home and Small Business Computer Security	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Plain English Information For Security Novices	The more home and small office users migrate to broadband Internet connections, the more at risk they are for being hacked or exploited. It is imperative to protect and secure these systems.     The problem is that most home users and many small business users don't know the first thing about computer or network security. This book tries to provide an introduction for the security novice in terms they can understand.     Using the story analogy to introduce each topic the author presents each subject in a way that conveys the necessary information without overwhelming the reader.     All users on the Internet have an obligation to secure their computers and a book like this one is a good start.    (...)	2005-02-10
US	16058375	R1UDM40MUFAVEN	0471232823	817034711	Hack Attacks Revealed: A Complete Reference for UNIX, Windows, and Linux with Custom Security Toolkit, Second Edition	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Expert Knowledge On Hacking Techniques	John Chirillo has made a career of hacking. As a hacking consultant to Fortune 1000 companies part of his job is to break in to corporate networks to expose their holes and help his clients secure their networks. In Hack Attacks Revealed, he shares his knowledge of how hackers gain the information necessary to break into your systems.     The book begins with a basic history and understanding of computer and networking technology. Mr. Chirillo covers the the protocols used and the purpose of the various ports used. The book also provides information on the scanning and network discovery tools used by hackers.     (...)	2005-02-10
US	16058375	R1IL5X56TWVWGB	0072230614	849351279	Windows Server 2003 (Hacking Exposed)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Excellent Resource for Windows Server 2003 Admins	Hacking Exposed- Windows Server 2003 is the latest addition to the Hacking Exposed series of books. Joel Scambray and Stuart McClure have teamed up to create another excellent source of information to help you understand the weaknesses in your Windows Server 2003 system and what you can do to defend against them.     It may not be quite as gripping as a John Grisham novel, but the Hacking Exposed books are relatively easy to follow and understand. The use of Tips, Notes and Cautions helps to highlight specific areas that deserve more attentions than others.     As with other books from the Hacking Exposed series, this one walks through how an attacker would locate and exploit your machine. It covers how to footprint and enumerate potential targets and then goes into comprehensive detail for the various attacks and vulnerabilities. Each attack or vulnerability is ranked based on its popularity, simplicity and potential impact to arrive at an overall risk rating.     This book covers the latest exploits and security measures for Windows Server 2003 including Windows-specific services such as MSRPC and IIS6. The authors also provide information on attacks against Terminal Services such as password guessing and privilege escalation as well as the latest DoS (Denial of Service) attacks.     New security features of Windows Server 2003 are covered as well- updates to IPSec, software restrictions and ICF (Internet Connection Firewall).     Anyone with Windows Server 2003 should read this book.    (...)	2005-02-10
US	16058375	R2W2XHATXM62C2	0072226307	961266934	Hacker's Challenge 2: Test Your Network Security & Forensic Skills	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Test Your Skills With These Hacker Puzzles	Hacker's Challenge 2 is a sort of practical exam for the Hacking Exposed series. Hacker's Challenge was a terrific book for putting some incident response and forensic skills to use and practicing for the real thing. Hacker's Challenge 2 continues the tradition and should be a must read for anyone who works with network security and incident response. The style of the challenges is fairly entertaining and the plots are so engaging you may not want to put the book down. Its like a best-selling mystery novel for network security techies. It may not affect the quality of the book overall, but I preferred having the authors of the individual challenges identified as they were in Hacker's Challenge. However, you should definitely buy this book!     (...)	2005-02-10
US	16058375	R1UIQIGLR9K8U0	0072227427	593641401	Hacking Exposed: Network Security Secrets & Solutions, Fourth Edition (Hacking Exposed)	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Fifth Edition Is Another Winner	George Kurtz, Stuart McClure and Joel Scambray have been a staple of my Information Security library since the first Hacking Exposed book. Things change quickly in the security world and the authors of Hacking Exposed - 5th Edition have done a tremendous job at taking a great thing and making it better by updating it with new attacks and countermeasures.<br /><br />This edition of this classic book includes details about recent vulnerability exploits that have plagued the Internet including RPCSS (Blaster), LSASS (Sasser) and PCT (Download.ject). There is also a discussion of computer \\"zombies\\" and practical recommendations for how to protect your systems from zombie attacks.<br /><br />There are a handful of books that should be \\"must-reads\\" for anyone responsible for computer or network security and this is one of them. Learning the information in this book will help you learn current attacks and hacking techniques and develop effective countermeasures to protect your network. Hands down, Hacking Exposed should be on every network or security administrators desk for quick reference.<br /><br />Buy this book. Even if you already have a previous edition, the new and updated information in this book are well worth the investment.<br /><br />(...)	2005-02-10
US	16058375	RSQIK7ST4EAQ8	0471458791	985054384	The Myth of Homeland Security	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Critical Thinking About True Homeland Defense	Homeland Security is a hot topic. Even if it wasn't, the \\"wag the dog\\" mentality of the United States government would make it so. The terrorist attacks of 9/11 have defined and driven almost all aspects public policy and government spending since then. In a knee-jerk reaction to the events, many laws and initiatives were passed ostensibly to protect our country from any similar attacks in the future.     Marcus Ranum's book- The Myth of Homeland Security- illustrates how these knee-jerk reactions fall short of the goal. The Homeland Security Act and the PATRIOT Act in particular seem to do as much or more to limit and strip the individual freedoms of law abiding U.S. citizens as they do to protect the country or deter terrorism.     Much of the book is almost more of a rant about the current state of government in the United States, but even the ranting is engaging to read and Ranum backs his opinions up with intelligent, well-written and sometimes humorous points.     Ranum does offer some solutions, while also stressing that not everything is even fixable. Much of security is illusion. It is smoke and mirrors to give the sense of security when in reality a determined attacker could easily bypass the security measures and attack successfully.     I recommend this book for everyone if for no other reason than to ensure that the American public continue to think critically and question our elected officials and not simply fall for the illusion of security.    (...)	2005-02-09
US	16058375	R3LY1IQE2BH9S3	1932266828	170181430	Ethereal Packet Sniffing	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Excellent Information For An Excellent Program	Ethereal is fairly commonly accepted as one of the best, if not the best packet sniffer available. If its not the best, it certainly is hard to get more bang for the buck because Ethereal is freely available as an open source application.     The opening chapter provides a very good overview of network analysis for those who are new to the whole concept. It answers questions like \\"What Is Network Analysis and Sniffing?\\" and \\"How Does It Work?\\".     One of the nice things about this book is that it is completely dedicated to this one product. So, rather than hitting the highlights of various applications and glossing over features and functionality this book provides entire chapters devoted to installing and using Ethereal's basic functionality and then goes on to cover advanced concepts in great detail.     Chapter 7 explains how to integrate Ethereal with other products and using Ethereal to analyze data from applications such as Snort, Snoop, Microsoft Network Monitor and more. Because Ethereal is open source anyone with an idea and some extra time is welcome to contribute to the project by developing Ethereal further. Chpater 9 is dedicated to illustrating what you need to know as a developer to help improve Ethereal.     The book comes with a CD which contains Ethereal among other things, but CD's are quickly outdated and you are better off downloading the current Ethereal from the site. Regardless, this book is a must have for anyone running Ethereal and is well worth the money.    (...)	2005-02-08
US	16058375	R2DCRGP6XV0XZY	0321197674	586890208	Defend I.T.: Security by Example	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Learn Security By Example Using Case Studies	The authors of Defend I.T.: Security By Example, teamed up previously to write Hack I.T.. The previous work was more along the lines of the hacking genre of books such as Hacking Exposed or Counter Hack, providing detailed explanations of various attacks to use in performing a penetration test of your network.     Books like that are great for those with the knowledge and skills to make sense of them, but people who aren't as technical and don't necessarily work the front lines of network security such as managers and executives can still benefit from having an understanding of how such attacks can impact their company and a high-level understanding of how to defend against them.     This book is not written for someone with zero technical knowledge. It does assume a certain level of understanding, but the case studies help to illustrate how the various attack techniques in the other type of books can be used and how you can protect your network.     This book is similar to the Hacker's Challenge books in that it provides real-world scenarios, except that rather than solving the puzzle on your own the solution is included in the story like a short mystery.     Managers of I.T. departments or security personnel and those who control the security budget would benefit from reading a book like this to understand what their people are up against. Those who actually work the front lines would still benefit from being able to associate information with real-world examples and applications.     (...)	2005-02-08
US	16058375	R1U37WYNGLGGU3	0201699508	655520591	Essential Checkpoint Firewall-1: An Installation, Configuration, and Troubleshooting Guide	Books	4	0	0	N	N	"Phoneboy" Knows His Checkpoint Firewall Info	Each chapter of the book starts off with describing what the reader will learn or accomplish by reading that chapter. This sort of information is helpful for allowing readers to skip information that may not be useful to them and find the answers they seek. Many of the chapters also contain FAQ's and sample configurations and illustrations to help reinforce the information.     The book tries to cover a very broad scope and apply to a wide audience. It contains information all the way from holding the readers hand if they are new to Checkpoint Firewall-1 NG to providing detailed troubleshooting and configuration steps for experienced Checkpoint administrators.     I have never administered a Checkpoint firewall personally, but I found the information mostly straight forward and understandable. Again, this is not a book one would typically read casually, but for anyone who administers a Checkpoint firewall or is looking at installing a Checkpoint Firewall-1 NG system this is an excellent source of information.     (...)	2005-02-08
US	16058375	R2Y4H2YMUQ4UEU	0596001053	719579285	Database Nation : The Death of Privacy in the 21st Century	Books	5	0	1	N	N	how Much IS Big Brother Watching?	This is an older book, but one that I specifically requested after reading books like Myth of Homeland Security by Marcus Ranum and Beyond Fear by Bruce Schneier. While those books related directly to homeland or national security in the wake of the 9/11 attack this book predates the attack but describes an Orwellian society where Big Brother monitors everything and privacy is a facade.     When I was in high school I read George Orwell's 1984. It is a work of fiction, but in many ways present society and technology have surpassed Orwell's vision. Simson Garfinkel paints a chilling picture of the complete lack of privacy today because we have the technology to store and retrieve almost every transaction and occurrence that goes on in our lives.     When you make a cell phone call records are kept of the area you called from and the number you called. When you make a purchase with a credit card or ATM/Debit card you create a record of where you were at a specific time and date as well as what you purchased. Medical records tell a lot about a person and are not as protected as people believe. A recent Supreme Court decision essentially states that an ISP can legally intercept and view your email without violating wiretap laws. Common, everyday activities capture and store minute details about your life.     This book offers few solutions, but does an excellent job of describing the problem in a compelling way. Everyone should read this book to learn what a facade your privacy really is.     (...)	2005-02-08
US	16058375	R1QS3ABQZDRN1Q	0201761750	26849422	The Effective Incident Response Team	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Good Intro to Establishing Incident Response Procedures	Julie Lucas and Brian Moeller bring a lot of knowledge and experience to the table in creating this book. The focus of The Effective Incident Response Team is not to teach you everything you need to know to respond to computer intrusions or incidents. The goal of the book is to help a manager understand the roles and functions of a CIRT (computer incident response team) and answer the questions they need to answer to define and form their own CIRT.     The Effective Incident Response Team begins with a brief history of computer incidents and incident response teams and a short overview of the grandmother of all CIRT's- the Carnegie Mellon CERT (computer emergency response team). To this day the Carnegie Mellon CERT remains as one of the primary sources of reliable information and one of the key resources that many rely on when creating their own CIRT processes.     The book goes on to define the scope and some of the roles and responsibilities you will need to consider in creating your own incident response team. It does so in relatively plain English and at a fairly high level. Again, the goal is to help a manager define and form a team- not to provide the level of technical expertise required to actually be on the team.     For managers who have been tasked with forming or leading a CIRT or defining their incident response process this book can be a great start. For those looking for more technical depth you may want to refer to books like Incident Response by Douglas Schweitzer.     (...)	2005-02-08
US	16058375	R2E8UD3DY1DYUT	1587051176	271163359	Designing Network Security (2nd Edition)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Good Security Architecture Info- With Emphasis on Cisco	Merike Kaeo has been a network security professional with Cisco Systems, Inc for over 10 years. As a CCIE and a member of IEEE and IETF Kaeo has a tremendous amount of knowledge and experience to share on the subject.     The first of the book provide an overview of the core \\"Security Fundamentals\\". Each chapter delves a little deeper as the author talks about various aspects of network security including encryption, authentication, PKI, wireless security and more.     Beyond that Kaeo discusses the prevailing environment and what sorts of threats exist currently. Aimed more at infosec managers than administrators it provides a good look at common attack methods and things to consider when implementing network security. These first two sections combined also provide a wealth of information to help those aspiring to pass the CISSP or other security certification exams.     The last part of the book is primarily Cisco-centric. That isn't necessarily a bad thing since so many businesses rely on Cisco hardware for their network infrastructure. It certainly won't hurt your career in information security to be well-versed in Cisco technology.     The book is long- almost 800 pages. But, Kaeo manages to keep it moving and give the reader the information they need without getting bogged down being boring or too wordy. The figures and diagrams included help the reader to comprehend the concepts and topics presented.     This is a very good book with tons of useful information.     (...)	2005-02-08
US	16058375	R1LC2EGN25N969	1928994237	688497940	E-mail Virus Protection Handbook : Protect your E-mail from Viruses, Tojan Horses, and Mobile Code Attacks	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Comprehensive Guide to Keeping Malware Out of Your Inbox	E-Mail Virus Protection Handbook is a great book for learning where your email software is vulnerable and how you can defend yourself against malicious code in your email. The authors provide a detailed overview of the various malicious code threats- viruses, worms, trojans, etc. They also discuss a range of email clients from Outlook and Outlook Express to web-based email programs such as Hotmail or Yahoo Mail. For each client they provide some common weaknesses and give detailed explanations of what you can do to protect your computer. Email is one of the most common vectors for malicious code attacks and it is important for everyone to be aware of how to guard against these threats. While slightly dated, I still recommend this book.     (...)	2005-02-08
US	16058375	REN769MK807BC	1932111840	541462599	Degunking Windows: Clean up and speed up your sluggish PC	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Clean Out and Tune Up Your Windows	The main focus of my site is security- not Windows maintenance. I tend to spend most of my time examining new ways to protect and safeguard my computer, not clean it up. However, perhaps because I install and uninstall software frequently to test it out and surf the Web an inordinate amount of time doing research, my computer becomes cluttered and fragmented faster than most and the information found in Degunking Windows is exactly what the doctor ordered.     If you follow the default Windows installation you may already be starting out with a significant number of applications and utilities that you will never use taking up hard drive space and possibly memory and processor resources. As you surf the Web your computer caches information in Temporary Internet Files which can take a significant amount of drive real estate if not kept in check. As you use programs data that in theory belongs together is actually written to random areas scattered about the hard drive. Over time this file fragmentation can slow your computer down and cause excessive wear and tear on your hard drive.     Joli Ballew and Jeff Duntemann do an excellent job of helping you to find the things that are slowing down and cluttering up your system. They explain in plain-English what you need to know to remove unwanted programs and optimize your Windows machine for maximum performance. Keep the book handy because you will need to go through this cleanup periodically- maybe a couple times a year.     (...)	2005-02-08
US	16058375	RBD52BUT1JN9P	0312995423	201960968	Digital Fortress	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Excellent and Engaging Techno-Thriller	I thoroughly enjoyed this book. I have not yet gotten around to reading The Da Vinci Code, also from Dan Brown- I do own it, I just haven't gotten around to reading it yet. Digital Fortress however piqued my interest because it related directly to computer and network security. Brown certainly does his homework as it relates to computer security technology and talks intelligently about encryption algorithms. The crux of this story revolves around a new encryption algorithm which, even with a relatively small key, is completely unbreakable. I found the book fast-paced and engaging. I almost literally didn't put it down until I was done. I don't take many forays into the world of fiction, but if you like cyber-thrillers I highly recommend you pick this book up and read it.     (...)	2005-02-08
US	16058375	R1RFSZFT9K2RM7	0201786958	567630326	Exploiting Software: How to Break Code	Books	5	5	7	N	N	"Hacking Exposed" For Developers	After doing some homework to find IP addresses and TCP ports that might be open to attack and locating a target system, it is often a vulnerable application running on the target system which provides the door for an attacker to compromise a system.     Hacking Exposed and the whole genre of hacker technique and defense books provides a window for network and security administrators to peer into the world of the malicious hacker and understand how an attacker would go about finding weaknesses in their networks to exploit and attack. Using this information the network administrator can develop defenses to protect their environments from this sort of exploitation.     Exploiting Software is for software developers what Hacking Exposed is for network administrators. Greg Hoglund and Gary McGraw have written a book which explains in detail how a cracker might go about finding holes or breaking into software. They cover the tools and techniques commonly used and describe ways that a software developer can write better code to prevent these sorts of attacks.     I am not a software developer- just a dabbler in programming- but I still found the book engaging and educational. Should I ever delve deeper into software programming it is books like this one which will give me the knowledge to write code that is more secure from the get go.     Software developers should be required to read this book to fully understand their \\"enemy\\" and how to program to prevent their product from being exploited.     (...)	2005-02-08
US	16058375	R33S4XH1PXXHYV	1587051346	853763655	CCIE Security Practice Labs (CCIE Self-Study) (Practical Studies)	Books	4	2	5	N	N	Good Tool For Those Trying To Get CCIE Certified	Not being a Cisco expert myself I can't speak much on the technical accuracy of the book. There are some reports out there of mistakes in some of the labs, however CCIE classes and boot camps can cost thousands of dollars and many CCIE workbooks and preparation programs cost well into the hundreds of dollars. For the $50 price of this book I think a few mistakes can be tolerated. In the end, even if there may be a few mistakes, there are seven practice lab scenarios to help you learn and practice configuration and troubleshooting of solutions. The accompanying CDROM contains the solutions to the lab exercises including the configurations and the output of the SHOW commands. In my experience it is possible that a few mistakes here and there may actually make the experience of using a book like this even better. The process of troubleshooting to determine what the mistakes are generally serves to strengthen the information and cement it in your mind.     (...)	2005-02-06
US	16058375	R2BVSS3VJ5QLJ2	1590593162	550639449	Computer Security for the Home and Small Office	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Good Intro To Security	Thomas Greene is most well known for his articles on cybercrime, network and computer security and other information technology subjects for the British tech newspaper The Register. As Associate Editor and journalist for The Register he has a developed a distinctive style and a great reputation.     I have long said that more focus needs to be given to providing security tools and education to the home and small office computer user. Corporations have teams of people and expansive budgets to implement layered security solutions with administrators to monitor and enforce them, but home and small office users have neither the knowledge they need nor the budget to throw blindly into security.     Ironically, all of the money and effort corporations put into computer and network security could be rendered useless if a particularly virulent worm infects the millions of unprotected home users and bogs the Internet down to the point of crippling it.     Greene has seen this same gap in security and wrote this book to fill that gap. He covers a broad range of security topics in language and terms designed for computer security novices to be able to grasp and understand.     One thing this book does that is admirable is that it goes beyond the simple security and recommends open source and alternative solutions- even debating the use of Linux over Windows, giving the user an in depth look at their options.     Home users need this information and I recommend they check this book out.     (...)	2005-02-06
US	16058375	R2VVWD37IOPEN2	1886411794	396251148	Crackproof Your Software: Protect Your Software Against Crackers (With CD-ROM)	Books	5	2	11	N	N	Great Information For Programmers	As fast as developers and vendors can pump out new software the crackers of the world break the protection schemes. Rather than paying a fair price for the software many people visit underground cracker sites and warez FTP sites to download illegally cracked versions of software.     This theft has a financial impact on the vendors and developers. Large companies like Microsoft lose tens of millions of dollars in revenue to pirated and illegally distributed software each year. Not that they are in the market of not making money, but losing $30 or $50 million is more or less a drop in the bucket to Microsoft and something they can absorb as the cost of doing business and simply write it off on their taxes. Joe Programmer sitting in his basement writing code 18 hours a day to create a fantastic new shareware program however might miss the money a little more.     If you are a freelance software developer or even a small software company this book may be just what you're looking for. Crackproof Your Software: Protect Your Software Against Crackers gives you the inside scoop on the techniques and tools used by crackers to break into your software.     Pavol Cerven helps the reader to understand the common errors developers make that make it easier for crackers to break in and shows a number of tips and hints to help the reader learn how to write crackproof code including how to thwart attempts to debug or disassemble the code.     I highly recommend this book for software developers.     (...)	2005-02-06
US	16058375	R1ETULNS0OF5EP	0471237159	411715021	Building Secure Wireless Networks with 802.11	Books	4	1	2	N	N	A Little Dated, But Good Source of Information	The authors of this book have extensive first-hand knowledge of the technology and concepts they write about. Recently, wireless networks have exploded onto the home and business markets. The ability to network computers without having to string cables across your home or hire a 3rd-party company to wire new network jacks is very appealing.     The problem is that if your network traffic is flying through the air to your wireless networked computers, it can also be intercepted by unintended recipients. If you are going to delve into the world of wireless networking, it is important that you read this book to learn how to do so securely.     (...)	2005-02-06
US	16058375	RT6MWLMQHCBK6	0072227877	810050425	Black Ice: The Invisible Threat of Cyber-Terrorism	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Insightful Look at the State of Infrastructure Security	Dan Verton, journalist and author of The Hacker Diaries: Confessions of Teenage Hackers, has written a very enlightening book in Black Ice: The Invisible Threat of Cyber-Terrorism.     The book begins with a fictitious attack that is multi-faceted and very well orchestrated. While it is somewhat sensationalist or alarmist, the point of the story is to show what is possible- not probable. Verton illustrates how cyber-attacks against key communications and critical infrastructure sites can be used in conjunction with conventional attacks to maximize the ensuing damage and confusion.     After capturing your attention with the story of what could be, Verton goes on to describe various government and private sector studies and disaster-preparedness exercises that have proven time and time again what a fragile state the infrastructure is in and how the domino effect of one area can cascade to take out entire regions.     One of the main points of the book is to show how the critical infrastructure is inter-dependent. If a main gas pipeline is destroyed, electrical power plants lose their source of energy. Once the electricity is shut down the telephone, cell phone, Internet and many other industries will shut down. Water treatment facilities will not be able to function. The list goes on and on.     This is an enlightening book that everyone should read. It is important for the powers that be to understand this domino effect and take steps to protect against cyber-terrorism of this sort.    (...)	2005-02-06
US	16058375	R3W2A4VP9YM1ZT	0130332739	214397615	Counter Hack: A Step-by-Step Guide to Computer Attacks and Effective Defenses (The Radia Perlman Series in Computer Networking and Security)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Better Than The Original	Ed Skoudis is a respected and knowledgeable resource in the security field. After completing Malware: Fighting Malicious Code, which is one of the best books relating specifically to viruses, and other malware threats, Skoudis teamed up with Tom Liston to write the 2nd edition of Counter Hack to update it with current technologies and attack techniques. More than half of the content is new.     While I am a huge fan of the entire Hacking Exposed series of books, and I highly recommend Hacking Exposed- 5th Edition, I feel that Counter Hack Reloaded does a better job at putting the attacks and countermeasures in context and illustrating the bigger picture of how they would or could be used rather than just giving a list of attacks and mitigations in a vacuum. The book is by no means intended for a computer novice, but for someone who is comfortable with computers and networking and wants to expand their knowledge of security, Counter Hack Reloaded is an excellent choice.     As in the original Counter Hack, the book ends with a section called Putting It All Together which provides some short story scenarios that illustrate the attack beginning to end and help to pull the information together so that the reader can understand it better.	2005-02-06
US	16058375	RI25QUX1I8MCM	1932266860	876325230	Inside the SPAM Cartel: By Spammer-X	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A Must-Read For Email or Security Admins	I do a lot of incident response and antivirus work. While my initial response when a new virus or worm outbreak slams my network is to go into emergency response mode and be more than a little frustrated about giving up my nights or weekends to chase down malware, I often sit back when the dust has settled and admire the creativity and engineering genius that goes into some of the malware.     Spammer X, the author of this book, talks about spam in a similar fashion. It is a dirty, sneaky business, but when you stop to look at the engineering and ingenuity that goes into collecting addresses and distributing the spam it is almost awe inspiring. It would be nice if such programming genius and creative thinking were put to better use, but it is genius nonetheless.     This is one of the best books I have seen about spam. Rather than simply talking about bayesian filters or other blocking technologies or concepts, this book goes into detail about the business side of spam and how they get around your blocking and filters.     It may be a little disheartening to think you can't stop it, but it reads like a novel and it is very enlightening. I highly recommend this book, especially to admins trying to stop spam.    (...)	2005-02-06
US	16058375	R1E2D20BZRE8XK	0201707195	762886988	Computer Forensics: Incident Response Essentials	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Good Introduction to Computer Forensics Investigations	This book is a couple years old now, but the fundamentals remain essentially the same. Kruse and Heiser are seasoned experts in computer forensics and incident response and they have managed to boil down years of knowledge and experience into a format that is easy to read and understand. While security experts may not learn anything new from this book, those entering the field will find it invaluable. It is comprehensive and detailed while remaining easy to read. The foundation provided by reading and understanding this book can be used to move forward into more technical areas. Computer Forensics is not fluff by any means though and could easily be kept nearby as a handy reference for a computer forensic investigation.     (...)	2005-02-06
US	16058375	R2IQFANP6XBAYI	0201752794	815130489	A Guide to Forensic Testimony: The Art and Practice of Presenting Testimony As An Expert Technical Witness	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Great Information For Criminal and Civil Case Forensics	There are many books on computer forensics investigations and incident response, but you won't find too many that tell you what you need to know to take the results of those forensic investigations and make it stand up in court. A Guide to Forensic Testimony (The Art and Practice of Presenting Testimony as an Expert Technical Witness) is an excellent book on this subject. Fred Chris Smith and Rebecca Gurley Bace share their knowledge and experience of the legal system and what it takes to make your computer forensic evidence stand up in court and what you need to do to sell yourself as an expert witness and stand up to cross-examination. The book covers a lot of legal technicalities as well as ethical and professional issues.     (...)	2005-02-06
US	16058375	R1J3SR1K90AGIV	159059326X	831549364	Always Use Protection: A Teen's Guide to Safe Computing	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Aimed At Teens But Good For All Novices	One of the problems with securing the Internet and reducing the impact of threats from malware, vulnerability exploits, phishing scams, spyware and other risks is that there are constantly new users joining the Internet community who need to be taught what the risks are and how to protect themselves. Children and teens represent a good portion of this new breed of Internet users. Not only are they new to the Internet and the concepts of security, but they tend to use the computer and the Internet in riskier ways than adults- participating in chat rooms and online gaming or transferring files on peer-to-peer (P2P) networks.     Dan Appleman has put together a book which addresses not only the basic concepts of security, but specifically highlights the ways that teens tend to use computers and how they can do so more securely. The book is well-written and is written in language that computer novices can follow. It also has a younger edge to it which is aimed at the target audience. If you are looking for an explanation of the risks of using computers on the Internet and the ways you can do so securely this book is a good resource even if you aren't quite a teenager any more.     The accompanying web site (alwaysuseprotection.com) not only supplements or augments the book but is an excellent source of news and information in and of itself to help users stay informed on security issues even after they finish the book.     (...)	2005-02-06
US	16058375	R1YFOQWZGF7RL0	0387026207	711266386	Beyond Fear: Thinking Sensibly About Security in an Uncertain World.	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Excellent Look Behind The Hype Around Homeland Security	In the wake of the 9/11 terrorist attacks there have been many changes to how national security is handled. Many of these changes have directly impacted our civil liberties or freedoms as United States citizens. Our elected officials and government organizations push these sweeping changes with a \\"sky is falling\\" mantra and claims that only by limiting freedoms and expanding the authority of law enforcement and government agencies can security be assured.     Bruce Schneier's book- Beyond Fear- helps those citizens understand how these trade-offs really work and to see that freedom and security are not necessarily opposite sides of the coin. Schneier uses language that anyone can understand and excellent examples to illustrate how to assess the risks and determine whether a given security measure will help- or possibly even do more harm than good.     One of my favorite chapters is Chapter 2- Security Trade-Offs Are Subjective. He gives example after example of how what seems like a risk to one person is no risk at all to another person and how, often, one's fear of that risk is not supported by logic. For example, he states \\"commercial airplanes are perceived as riskier than automobiles, because the controls are in someone else's hands- even though they're much safer per passenger mile.\\"     In this post 9/11 era there have been many changes in the name of security. People need to read this book to understand just what sort of security they are trading their freedom for.     (...)	2005-02-06
US	16058375	R1CD6IYB3HD7OE	0072253541	680782130	Hardening Windows Systems	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Invaluable Information For Windows Administrators	A trip to the local book store will quickly show you that there is no shortage of books on the subject of network security. In fact, Roberta Bragg, the author of Hardening Windows Systems, has written some of the other contributions to this genre as well. So, why another one?     Osborne / McGraw-Hill publishing, publishers of the Hacking Exposed series, introduced the Hardening Series of books, to add a fresh perspective and approach to network security books. Rather than simply regurgitating the same theoretical material and security best practice details, these books provide more nitty-gritty, action-oriented information.     In the first chapter, Bragg provides a list of ten things you should do immediately to secure your Windows systems. This helps get you very quickly from cracking the cover to getting actionable information you can implement now.     Working in I.T. though, I think that the last section is possibly more valuable than the information about securing the system. Getting budget approval, management support and user cooperation are all essential to securing the network and this information is invaluable.     I like the structure and approach of this book and recommend it for anyone supporting a Windows-based network.    (...)	2005-01-29
US	16058375	R1J9A0NE6BTVQJ	059600723X	400678786	Mac Annoyances: How to Fix the Most Annoying Things About Your Mac	Books	4	5	28	N	N	What? You Mean The Mac Isn't Perfect As Is?	I am not a Mac user, so I can't comment much on whether or not I agree that the annoyances addressed in the book are the things I would find annoying.     I can say that, contrary to the hype, I found the Mac to have just as many quirks and annoyances as Windows when I was supporting both operating systems. The annoyances might be different, but the operating system was not as perfect and intuitive as one might be led to believe. Suffice it to say, I believe a book like this will be just as welcome to the Mac audience as similar books in the PC and Windows world.     The title of Mac Annoyances may be a little misleading in some ways. It almost should be called Mac Hacks (O'Reilly does offer Mac OS X Panther Hacks as well) because many of the tips are not so much about an annoyance, but rather provide insight into tweaking or modifying the OS or application to work in a particular way.     Some of the tips or advice are not as helpful as you might hope for. For instance, tips on how to get the Safari web browser to work the way you want or perform certain functions often end with \\"switch to another browser\\".     Overall, the book is written fairly well and the tips will make sense to most beginner to intermediate level users.    (...)	2005-01-17
US	16058375	R2Q75I4IUCY6EY	0072256559	457240640	How to Do Everything to Fight Spam, Viruses, Pop-Ups, and Spyware	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Useful Tips To Help Keep Your PC Pest Free	There is no question that the pests addressed in this book are a significant threat to the everyday functionality of computers. This is particularly true of home users who don't have the benefit of a network security administrator to implement and maintain a perimeter firewall and ensure that antivirus detection is kept up to date.     Home users generally think of the computer as an appliance. They don't want to know more than they have to in order to use it for its intended purpose. They aren't trying to become computer security experts any more than they want to understand the physics behind how the microwave oven works.     Unfortunately, you can use a microwave oven without understanding the physics, but at least a rudimentary understanding of the threats out there and how to protect your computer or network from them are required to effectively use the computer.     Feinstein does a good job of explaining what the threats are and why you are at risk, and then providing the reader with fairly simple instructions to help shield the computer from that threat and protect your data and your network bandwidth so you can use the computer as you intended.     This is a good resource for a home user trying to learn about protecting their PC     (...)	2004-12-05
US	16058375	R29O734NSIKRE9	0764569597	978711017	The Art of Intrusion: The Real Stories Behind the Exploits of Hackers, Intruders and Deceivers	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Enlightening and Entertaining At The Same Time	I thoroughly enjoyed this book. I found it as entertaining as I did enlightening. It boggles the mind sometimes to contemplate the tremendous brilliance that goes into these illegal deeds. Imagine how much could be accomplished if these geniuses would use their knowledge and skills for good.     Each of the stories in this book provides a look at a different sort of attack. They provide some insight into why the attackers did what they did, how they were able to accomplish it and what sort of damage was incurred. In some cases the story-teller was never actually detected or caught so the story is told anonymously to protect the attacker's identity.     Mitnick and Simon interlace some commentary within the stories where it seems warranted, but their main contribution is at the end of each story. The information provided in the Insights and Countermeasures section can help a network or security administrator put the story in context and determine proactive steps that might protect them from being victimized by a similar attack.     Whether for entertainment or education I recommend this book. I look forward to reading Mitnick's own personal hacking exploits once the gag order has expired.     (...)	2004-12-05
US	16058375	R2WQNNZU7DLKNF	1931836086	207140742	Nessus Network Auditing: Jay Beale Open Source Security Series (Jay Beale's Open Source Security)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Invaluable resource for an excellent tool	This is the third book in Jay Beale's Open Source Security Series from Syngress Publishing and it is every bit as good as the first two. It certainly doesn't hurt to have the founder of the Nessus Project be one of the leading contributors to the book.     The book begins with an overview of the basic concept of vulnerability assessment and how a scan can be used to proactively detect holes and protect the network. After a brief introduction to the founding of the Nessus Project and the birth of the Nessus software the book goes into comprehensive detail about how to install, configure, administer, and employ the full functionality of Nessus to secure and protect your network.     Some of the most valuable information is contained in the chapters describing how to interpret the results of a Nessus scan and how to handle false positives. The book also provides information about the Nessus Knowledge Base and the Nessus User Community - two valuable resources for further information. The enclosed CD contains full versions of Nessus, Ethereal and Snort as well as NeWT, a standalone security scanner for Windows based on Nessus.     Nessus is an excellent tool and this book is an invaluable resource in helping you get the most out of it.     (...)	2004-11-14
US	16058375	R2C2WWJV10XL4H	076455784X	581322062	Hacking For Dummies (For Dummies (Computer/Tech))	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Excellent Book and Great Primer for Hacking Exposed	There is certainly no shortage of books in this genre- Counter Hack, Hack Attacks Revealed and the best-selling Hacking Exposed (and all of its spin-offs) have covered this information in grueling detail. What sets this book apart is that it does not assume you are already a CISSP or network security guru. Being a \\"For Dummies\\" book means that it is written from the assumption that you don't know anything and the information is written in plain English and in terms that even a child could often understand.     One of things that makes \\"For Dummies\\" books like this one great is the use of humor and icons to help lighten the information while also pointing out the key points and highlighting the \\"need to know\\" information. Hacking For Dummies walks the reader through basic computer and network security and progresses through various topics of hacking such as hacking applications or hacking various operating systems.     Anyone interested in this topic, but especially those who are new to the world of computer and network security, should read this book. It is great on its own, but also provides an excellent foundation for someone interested in proceeding to more detailed works such as Hacking Exposed.    (...)	2004-11-08
US	16058375	R2EPUXOK1AOZ6M	1593270348	47497583	Linux for Non-Geeks: A Hands-On, Project-Based, Take-It-Slow Guidebook	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Holds Your Hand To Migrate Away from Windows-centric World	Grant opens the book by clearly stating that he intends the book for \\"people who have read or heard about Linux and are wondering whether or not they are ready to deal with it, perhaps being held back by the Linux-is-for-geeks stereotype.\\"     If you are looking for a detailed, uber-geek, inside out understanding of Linux there are more appropriate books than this one. Grant does an excellent job of accomplishing his goal though- introducing Linux to the uninitiated and sharing enough knowledge for someone to effectively use the operating system without becoming a certified expert in it.     Grant walks the reader through installing and configuring the Fedora Linux that comes on CD with the book. He provides clear, understandable, step-by-step instructions to help you delve into the world of Linux. The book is project-based and teaches the reader how to do most common tasks in Linux.     The only caveat would be that it is Fedora-centric. The book focuses on the version of Linux it comes with, but for the intended audience and goal I think this serves the purpose well. If you want to see what Linux is about, check out Linux For Non-Geeks.     (...)	2004-11-08
US	16058375	RFR1BZ818WER1	0071424903	121437116	PDA Security : Incorporating Handhelds into the Enterprise	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Great Resource For Securing PDA's and Mobile Devices	This book provides a wealth of information for network and security administrators struggling to address the security risks posed by PDA's within their networks. It stands out as pretty much the only book addressing the security concerns of these convenient and valuable tools.     The book opens with a fairly comprehensive overview of PDA technology and the security features available. It then moves on to talk about other ways to secure the PDA such as encryption. Most importantly though, the book provides a wide range strategies and advice to help managers deploy and manage PDA's in their networks securely.     As the subtitle \\"Incorporating Handhelds Into The Enterprise\\" implies, the book is aimed at network and security administrators and not at the actual PDA users per se. The book serves as a great tool to help administrators begin to tackle the new security issues created by PDA's and to develop and implement structured policies to control PDA security in the enterprise.     PDA's are pretty much here to stay. I recommend that any network or security administrator with users using PDA's take a look at this book to get a grip on securing them.     (...)	2004-11-08
US	16058375	R2MCC5VH6DCG4F	1932266968	544971791	Security Assessment: Case Studies for Implementing the NSA IAM	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Good Resource For Implementing NSA IAM	The authors' have a wealth of experience in information security and with the IAM framework. They convey this experience through case studies derived from real-world scenarios to provide examples that illustrate the IAM in action.     Security Assessment demonstrates how to apply the NSA IAM to commercial and government organizations alike to determine the relative security of their network. The authors' provide tips and advise readers of pitfalls to watch out for as they guide you through performing an IAM security assessment.     The book is both informative and at times entertaining as it walks through sample scenarios. It also provides some templates and sample deliverables that readers can use.     The authors' knowledge and experience is evident throughout, however parts of the book are slightly confusing or hard to follow. Sometimes it seemed as if extra words were added in just to stretch the chapter out without providing any benefit in terms of relaying information. But, overall I think that network or security administrators and particularly those tasked with actually following the NSA IAM will benefit greatly from reading this book.     (...)	2004-11-08
US	16058375	R1QIPB950WBQH	1593270100	649778653	Apple Confidential 2.0: The Definitive History of the World's Most Colorful Company	Books	5	1	4	N	N	Captivating History of A Great Corporate Story	This is an excellent book. It is exceptionally well researched, well written and easy to read. While the concept of detailing the history of a corporation may seem mundane or boring, Linzmayer and Apple both make this a different story.     Steve Wozniak and Steve Jobs helped to spark the home computer revolution when they invented the Apple I computer in a garage in Los Altos, California. Their computers have created a fanatic, cult-like following and some appear more like contemporary art or sculptures than actual computers.     Linzmayer provides detailed timelines illustrating the evolution of Apple and thorough inside information about the inner-workings of Apple, the comings and goings of its executive leadership, the evolution and creation of Apple's innovative product lines and more.     [...]	2004-11-08
US	16058375	R46GKMKH1UQTN	0321180615	958455715	Essential Check Point FireWall-1 NG: An Installation, Configuration, and Troubleshooting Guide	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Excellent Resource For Checkpoint Firewall-1 NG Admins	Each chapter of the book starts off with describing what the reader will learn or accomplish by reading that chapter. This sort of information is helpful for allowing readers to skip information that may not be useful to them and find the answers they seek. Many of the chapters also contain FAQ's and sample configurations and illustrations to help reinforce the information.     The book tries to cover a very broad scope and apply to a wide audience. It contains information all the way from holding the readers hand if they are new to Checkpoint Firewall-1 NG to providing detailed troubleshooting and configuration steps for experienced Checkpoint administrators.     I have never administered a Checkpoint firewall personally, but I found the information mostly straight forward and understandable. Again, this is not a book one would typically read casually, but for anyone who administers a Checkpoint firewall or is looking at installing a Checkpoint Firewall-1 NG system this is an excellent source of information.     (...)	2004-11-08
US	16058375	R6DA03X99C9QW	007223167X	966258864	Anti-Spam Tool Kit	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Practical Information and Advice To Help Tame Spam	There is no question that spam is a potential threat to the effectiveness of email as a form of communication and is at the very least an annoyance to anyone who uses email. To that end, a book like this contains valuable advice and information for virtually anyone. The detailed coverage of such a wide variety of tools and techniques- even covering tools for different operating systems and different levels of the network such as client and server- provides a comprehensive \\"tool kit\\" for the reader to employ in fighting spam.     The authors provide a sufficient amount of detail for the various tools for the reader to get a feel for their relative pros and cons and how to implement them. SpamAssassin is covered in much greater detail than many of the other products. Many of the tools and utilities covered in the book are included on the accompanying CDROM and are free so you can get right to work blocking spam as soon as you read the book.     There have been some changes in some email clients and the way ISP's handle spam as well as some legal challenges to the concept of RBL's (realtime blackhole lists) since this book came out, but with over 60% of all email being spam it is obvious that many people still need a resource like this.     (...)	2004-11-08
US	16058375	R3NX16ZUGBSJHI	0321304519	898009489	The Executive Guide to Information Security: Threats, Challenges, and Solutions	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Excellent Reference for Executive Management	Mark Egan and Tim Mather have done a great job in my opinion of boiling the wide range of topics and information related to corporate network security down to an \\"executive summary\\" highlighting the key areas that executive leadership needs to understand in order to make decisions and lead effectively.    This book provides an overview of the history and current state of information security and an appropriate amount of detail for an executive to understand trends in technologies and threats and how to assess risks, hire competent I.T. staff and a general overview of best practices and practical solutions.    The appendices provide a wealth of additional information such as template job descriptions for specific I.T. roles and a listing of information security web sites for reference.    This book covers a little about a lot, and even that lot is aimed at managers and executive leadership. Don't get this book if you are looking for details about any aspect of computer security or even if you are looking for a comprehensive, broad coverage of information security for the \\"working class\\". For executive leaders looking to gain an understanding of I.T. to ensure that their networks are properly protected though this is an excellent resource.    [...]	2004-11-07
