US	16426349	RO4XR7P0TKWEG	0553257420	697198135	Killoe: A Novel	Books	4	12	12	N	N	THE KAYBAR MOVES FROM TEXAS TO NEW MEXICO	This western was published by Bantam Books in 1962. Essentially an interesting and fact-filled story of a group of Texans after the war with Mexico in the late 1850's who decide to move west.    In the spring and summer of 1858 they decide to move further west to New Mexico in the vicinity of Fort Stanton, built in 1855, and Bosque Redondo. While Louis L'Amour offers many aspects of their subsequent cattle drive, this story equally concerns this group of people and their relocation from Cowhouse Creek, Texas, near Austin, over the rough, arid Llano Estacado, or Staked Plains area, which is between Horsehead Crossing and the Palo Duro Canyon. Their final destination for resettlement will be near Bosque Redondo, New Mexico.    While there exists the potential of trouble along their westward route from Comanche Indians, Comancheros in the Palo Duro, possibly Apache Indians, and even a group of ruffians from back home trying to steal their cattle herd, the most pressing danger facing this group of settlers comes from an 80-mile stretch containing no water.  Three days without drinkable water for neither themselves nor their cattle, with much of the available water in this Pecos River country full of \\"concentrated alkali\\" and \\"It's death if they drink it.\\" (pg 73). Horsehead Crossing, an ancient area of Comanche Indian activity when driving herds up from Mexico, has been the death of hundreds of men and horses.    As with so many of Louis' westerns, his concerns are strongly focused on the social organization and inter-family relationships that it took to go or travel west. As he says at one point, moving west was hard work, with many men and animals perishing, never to reach their destination. While this group does reach its desired location, it is not without loss, and many travails. Louis seemed to be very interested in what it took for people to build once they reached their destinations; with one book, 'Bendigo Shafter', being dedicated to building a town from scratch.    This book is one of his better ones, without a reader's need to suspend the ole disbelief. His heroes and heroines here are all pretty much flesh and blood believable characters.    A quick read of only six long chapters, but one that is well worth the reading.    Semper Fi.	2005-08-05
US	16426349	R35L02VGCLLRP7	0553247611	692858316	Utah Blaine: A Novel	Books	4	16	17	N	N	Michael J. Blaine, Gunfighter	This book was originally published by Ace books back in 1954 under the name Jim Mayo, when Louis was bridging the pulp western magazines of the day, while later moving into his long running contract with Bantam Books.  The setting of the book is central Arizona in the Verde River Valley, pretty much between Blood Basin and the Mazatzal Mountains.    For the time of its writing, Utah Blaine is a very good book both in style and content. In general the book tells the story of Joe Neal's 46 Connected ranch and range of 300,000 prize acres of rangeland, with approximately 50,000 head of cattle on that range. An unsuccessful attempt is made on Joe's life, and later he is killed. The playing out of all the bad guys against the good guys, which at times number only 3, is the matrix of this western.    I'm an inveterate western reader, and in my humble opinion a reader just has to 'suspend the ole disbelief' when reading these shoot-em-ups. Louis was one of the best of western writers, but he had some equals, and a few even better. One thing that I did not care for in this western is the name of Utah Blaine's eventual girlfriend/wife: Angie Kinyon; that name is too close for me at least, to the later Ange Kerry with Tell Sackett, in a couple later Sackett novels.     Also, after \\"Rip\\" Coker has been gunshot, suffering 11 wounds, he is sidelined from the story.  And at book's ending, we still are not told whether \\"Rip\\", will live or die, although it seems that he will pull through. Coker, as a Ranger, also appears in several of the Chick Bowdre Texas Ranger stories, too.     Another item is the cache of supplies and ammunition, Utah says that they will be stashed in three separate locations, but never, ever, gives us more than the one original location at Cypress Butte. And never does he resupply anywhere near Cypress Butte, in general most of his resupply comes from a couple of ranch houses.    Please do not, I repeat, DO NOT, take any of these as slams against the book.These are only incongruities that can exist in any number of Louis' books. I've read that at any one time he may have had as many as 4 typewriters going with a different story in each one. Would not be difficult to leave a few items ragged when swinging intermittenly from one typewritter to another.    Louis L'Amour wrote some fine, classic, western stories while many others of his are only 3-star jobs; however, in the main I find him to be one of the best. One reviewer here said just to skip this book, with that I cannot agree, for this is no better nor any worse than most 3 or 4 star westerns. And at present I have several thousand westerns on my shelves.    Read this one and enjoy, that is afterall, mainly why Louis spent his lifetime writing more than 100 of them.    Semper Fi.	2005-08-04
US	16426349	R1EGO81TII0RA2	055327676X	489676925	Lando: The Sacketts: A Novel	Books	4	15	21	N	N	Orlando Sackett--#8 In The Sackett Series	This book was first issued as a Bantam paperback in December, 1962, having Orlando Sackett as the narrator.  The time period circa 1873-1875 was assigned by Louis L'Amour in his Sackett Companion, and that places the book as #8 in the Sackett family series.    This is essentially a fictional story concerning Orlando Sackett, narrated by him, as he leaves the mountains of Tennessee, the Sackett historical homeland, unless you are like Parmalee Sackett, a flatland Sackett. Falcon Sackett, Orlando's father, settled in Tennessee after marrying Orlando's mother to be, Aleyne Kurbishaw. As Orlando leaves the mountains the Tinker (Cosmo Lengro) is his companion, one who says little, but knows much. During the ensuing years of mule raising and racing, bare knuckle fighting, Mexican incarceration, and gold chasing, the Tinker and his wonderfully made knives will be Orlando's guide and companion. I'm not going to give you more of the plot, for those are not the reviews I give, and most other reviews here will offer adequate background as to the plot.    What I will offer is what none of these other reviews knew or offer: there are many details within this deceptively simple novel of the west that are all true. This is a novel from Louis that is a veritable treasure trove of facts.    For instance, the details of what a tinker was, his life and travels, is all true of the times. Jem Mace is mentioned as an English prizefighter of the time, and that is also true: he fought from 1855 through 1864, today classed as a welterweight.  The gunfighters of the story: Cullen Baker, Bill Longley and Bob Lee are true characters drawn from this time and place. Governor Edmund Jackson Davis was a real reconstruction governor for the state of Texas, and during his time in office an unknown man, L. H. McNelly, who later became a legend in the Texas Rangers, was part of the governor's police force. Juan Cortina, born in Mexico on May 16, 1824, dying in 1894, also existed. The Bald Knobbers were an actual group of vigilantes around Forsyth, Missouri, who were later disbanded by force, some members being hung, due to their ruffian activities. The cities of Beeville from the 1830s and Oakville, a lawless city Captain McNelly later cleaned up, also existed, and still did at the time of Louis' novel. Finally the Henry Rifle is known to all western readers as a gun appearing during the American Civil War, eventually leading the way to developing the later and famous 1873 Winchester repeating rifles of the frontier.  These are just some of the facts and historical notes tucked within this novel, there are more. But these will suffice.    I have all of Louis L'Amour's books in hardcover, and generally enjoy all of them. When I first encountered this one, however, I did not think much of it. But upon discovering the facts that lay behind it and tucked into it, I became more and more interested.    If you want an enjoyable western from Louis, though certainly not in the category of Hondo or Shalako let's say, but still a very interesting read, don't be shy of reading this one. It can be digested in only a few hours, but the facts will add to your western understanding.    Semper Fi.	2005-08-02
US	16426349	R2MF8EC3EQEXRS	0553248472	129754462	The Broken Gun: A Novel	Books	4	5	5	N	N	The Toomey Massacre	According to Louis L'Amour's book 'The Broken Gun' a massacre of 27 innocent men with their cattle herd stolen happened 90 years ago. The time setting of this book is 90 later as page 51 states:  \\"This is not the nineteenth century, the day of the rustler and gun-fighter; this was the day of satellites and moon voyages.\\"    This book has Louis straddling both the 19th and 20th centuries, with the hero, Dan Sheridan, living out his life a few years after the Korean conflict. Part of the experience and knowledge from that armed conflict will help him and another man with whom he served in Korea face the people now trying to kill both of them. Since Louis taught survival courses during his years in the Army, much of that survival training is embedded in this story taking place in the Verde River Valley, Yavapai County, Arizona. This is an area laying just east of Phoenix, Arizona.    The narrative continually swings back and forth from the present to the year 1872 when two men, Clyde and John Toomey, met their murderous ends. Decendents of the people who bushwhacked the Toomeys now without deed live on the land they stole from the Toomeys. In the process of writing his book, author Dan Sheridan seeks not only to save several lives in this outdoor adventure, but also seeks justice for the 27 men killed 90 years previous, by seeing the rightful heirs get their property back.    Within this story a Bisley colt has part of a diary in the barrel of the gun, and this helps get Dan Sheridan's interest, plus it gives him information about the Toomeys. This is interesting to me too, for in a 1937 William Colt MacDonald story published in Western Story Magazine (3/6/37), entitled \\"Skelton Gold\\", a Texas wrangler buys an old .45 in Paso City with a map to hidden treasure in the barrel. Is this only a coincidence? Was Louis familiar with this short story?     If you are a western fan in general, or a Louis L'Amour fan in specific you will find much in this book to enjoy.    Sempter Fi.	2005-08-01
US	16426349	R30TYLDQDA02DH	0553247484	973409894	Kid Rodelo: A Novel	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Desert, Desert, And More Desert	This western has as its setting Arizona and Sonora, with Yuma prison as its starting point, moving along the Arizona/Mexico border along the Camino de Diablo into the Pinacate Peaks around Tinaja Alta and Tule Tanks, with Papago Wells as a water stop off. The final leg of the journey is south to the Gulf of California, hoping to board a boat in Adair Bay, thence onto freedom over the water.    I've read this 1966 western of escape and gold hunting in the Sonoran Desert from Louis L'Amour several times, saving it generally for the hottest days of the year; at present the temperature on the porch is 92 degrees. The mean temperature in this novel can reach 110 degrees higher up, and 150 degrees down on the desert sand floor. Reading it under this type of environment helps to really feel what these people are going through. I always read Heller With A Gun in the winter, same principle.    Page 53 of the hardcover gives a good thumbnail of this western novel: \\" ... Four men and a woman (Nora Paxton), ringed with death, a death that might come from the Yaquis Indians in pursuit, but could just as likely come from the desert itself.\\" Three of these four men are escaped convicts out of Yuma Territorial Prison in Arizona Territory: one is a slick, homicidal gunslinger, another a little weasel called Gopher, and finally Badger, while a more sensitive man, still a hardened man of all times and places who is capable of murder.    Kid Rodelo has served his time out in Yuma Prison, and is roaming the desert with these three and the girl, all of whom are hunting $50,000 in gold that the gunslinger killed for and stole prior to being locked up in Yuma. On their trail are the very successful Yaquis Indians led by Hat, bounty hunters all, that are sent out from Yuma Prison to bring back those that are foolish enough to escape. For this they receive $50.00 per body; and they always bring them back dead, so as not to have to share water with them on the way back.    Several mysteriesexist in this western:   Who is Kid Rodelo? What did he want? And why is he doing what he is doing? But one thing for certain, only Dan Rodelo who knows this desert can save all these people wandering the desert. But as the Bantam paperback asked years ago, \\"But would he?\\"    Semper Fi.	2005-07-26
US	16426349	R38FQMBM7DLNDL	030435127X	138866449	Kommando: German Special Forces of World War II	Books	5	6	8	N	N	And Finally, Werewolves, Too.	<br />This is another of the dozen plus books on my WWII shelf written by the incomparable, James Lucas. When I see his name in a bookstore or catalog, I quickly look to see if I have the book.  He and Charles Whiting have become two of my favorite authors where WWII is concerned, each author having themselves served in WWII. <br /> <br />I've had this hardcover volume for several years, purchasing it from The Military Book Club when it was their selection back in 1985. May possibly have been the very first book I found by James Lucas. <br /> <br />In this study James Lucas concentrates his efforts on the elite German troops who played an important part in the early part of the war, especially prior to the invasion of both Poland and Czechoslovakia. These German Special Force's men not only infiltrated these countries but set up pre-invasion bases.  Nothing would have gone as smoothly as it did without their service and efforts.  As the war continued they were to see use in many other tasks, some late in the war falling into what can only be termed suicide missions. <br /> <br />Two of the more interesting sections of this book for me have to do with Sturmbannfuhrer or SS-Major Otto Skorzeny who led many missions of the special forces of Germany, some that seem beyond belief, even today. He was active, for example, in the rescue of Il Duce, the Ardennes campaign, and most interestingly, the highly secret KG200 activities.  <br /> <br />The second item of interest here concerns the Werewolf organizations in the very last months of the war, these were designed as youthful guerrilla/terroist movements to disrupt the allied entry into the heartland of Germany. <br /> <br />Hopefully all of these items mentioned will be of equal interest to you acting as a prompt to take a look at this fine book on German Special Forces of World War Two. The book also contains many charts, tables, and diagrams, fully illustrated with over 50 photographs. <br /> <br />Recommended.	2005-06-29
US	16426349	R2OSUPITYI4WL5	0304358541	997303407	Cassell Military Classics: Storming Eagles: German Airborne Forces in World War II	Books	5	4	4	N	N	German Paratroops--Fallshirmjager Units	<br />Having a dozen & more WWII books on the shelf by James Lucas, you could say that I do enjoy his books.  I trust his research and scholarship whenever he writes about the WWII era. <br /> <br />This present volume, originally published in 1988 by Arms and Armour Press, is now available in a lower priced Cassell paperback war classic. <br /> <br />These tough, well trained men who wore the Parachutist's jump badge of the silver wreath with the golden eagle descending, were some of Germany's finest special forces groups. From 1935 through 1945, these men were generally in the thick of combat wherever the Reich needed them most. And from the 1940 assault on Eben Emael and the invasion of Crete in 1941 onward they took on the patina and glimmer of a hard, tough fighting group. In the final days of 1945 when the British were assaulting the Westwall and Reichswald, the \\"bloody para boys\\" were the ones they least wanted to face.  These hardened troops also saw action in the key theatres of North West Europe, North Africa, and on the Eastern Front. <br /> <br />James Lucas covers all aspects of this specialized group of men from 1940 through 1945, and does it pretty much in historical order.  Hardly a page in this book exists without photographs (hardcover edition) and the maps are excellent, too. <br /> <br />Should you have interest in any of the special forces of the Reich, especially these fallshirmjagers, then this book is one you must see.	2005-06-29
US	16426349	R2ENCFJMUTAO38	0306811758	628339228	Brigades Of Gettysburg: The Union And Confederate Brigades At The Battle Of Gettysburg	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Da Capo Civil War	The last half dozen books on Civil War subjects that I've bought have been published by Da Capo press, and I'm impressed with their work. From a company who used to specialize in reprints only, they have come along nicely.    This particular book is an amazing piece of work. When you page through this one in a bookstore as I did recently, the feeling of \\"I've got to have this one\\" comes quickly through your mind.    Of recent time, I've been reading more and more on the battle of Gettysburg, and when a chance arises to have a book that lists and discusses both Union and Confederate Brigades at the battle of Gettysburg it is amazing.    Dr. Gottfried has apparently spent much of his learned life dwelling on this battle, and this book comes on the heels of a couple others of his concerning this battle.    I would posit that anyone having more than just a passing interest in Gettysburg must have this book.  By buying this one you move from a position of mere interest to one of in depth knowledge.    Several members of my family fought and died for the Union in Ohio Volunteer (OVI) units, and with this book I can track down their action with ease.    Recommended.	2005-06-16
US	16426349	RMPSU7UZ9SCWV	0060724250	578024190	The Complete Western Stories of Elmore Leonard	Books	5	125	130	N	N	Writing For 2-Cents A Word	Since mine is the first review of this wonderful collection of short stories from a master writer, the book must be one of the best kept secrets of contemporary publishing.    These stories were written during years of the mid-1950s through the mid-1960s for magazines of that period, prior to Elmore Leonard switching to a modern mode of crime writing for books.    Anyone familiar with HOMBRE, VALDEZ IS COMING, or THE TALL T will not be surprised with his talent for writing westerns. He has said he always liked western movies, and his first fledgling attempts at writing were therefore westerns. Growing up in that era, I clearly recall that westerns were almost at the forefront of both publishing and movie screen. Many of us growing up in those days of Hoppy & Roy & Gene & Lone Ranger comics, post-WWII paperbacks, and the local \\"bijou\\" theaters, remain western fans to this very day. On a personal note, I probably have well over one thousand paperback westerns in my library, collected over the years, and yes, Mr. Leonard's are all there.    So when this book came out I bought it immediately. The manner in which the publisher issued the book is above normal: inside the front and back covers are many of the magazine covers in color within which the stories appeared; also, there is a nifty map showing many sites in Arizona Territory helping one locate the area of individual stories.    This was an ambitious undertaking from both author and publisher, and one of love from the author I'm sure. If you have interest in Elmore Leonard, or the American fictional west, or both, you will not want to be without this volume.	2005-05-25
US	16426349	R4PO5Z7P0QYY2	0803211856	341647849	Karl Bodmer's America	Books	5	14	14	N	N	DEPICTS AN ERA LONG GONE	I'm fortunate to have a couple volumes on Karl Bodmer's work along with this one, in my opinion, this being the more complete. The other volume is entitled \\"People of the First Man\\" subtitled: Life Among the Plains Indians in Their Final Days of Glory. Bodmer was a Swiss born artist who accompanied the Prince Maximillian of Wied expedition of 1832 as the prince coursed the Upper Missouri River country.<br /><br />When one opens this book the reader is immediately transported to the Upper Missouri country of 1832-34. With the paintings and sketches taking the reader among the Indian tribes of this area: Lakota (Sioux), Mandans, Hidatsas, Blackfeet, Assiniboins, Kickapoo, Pawnee-Omaha, Cheyenne, Crow, Cree-Gros Ventres, Piegan-Blood, Siksika, Kutenai-Shoshoni, among other tribes. Here for the first time 349 plates with 257 in full color have been given us by the University of Nebraska press. A truly marvelous book of the Fort Clark area.<br /><br />Soon after Bodmer's passing through this area a smallpox epidemic riddled all these tribes with some, especially the Mandan Indians, being wiped out of existence. This book not only represents an unusual artifact of the times it illustrates as well people who were very soon to pass out of existence. In all Karl Bodmer had traveled approximately 5,000 miles while executing these priceless works of historical art.<br /><br />Cannot recommend this volume highly enough!<br /><br />Semper Fi.	2005-05-23
US	16426349	RUFNXMZHP6VUP	B0007E32RM	796987605	Never So Few	Books	5	14	17	N	N	The  Kachins	I remember seeing the movie 'Never So Few' either shortly before entering military service, or shortly thereafter. I did not realize at the time that the movie came from a book by the same title. I now have both in my library.    I read alot of non-fiction material on World War II and every once in awhile a book of fiction will be so good and so interesting that it will capture my attention. This book by Tom Chamales is one that calls out to be read. The book was written in 1957 in a writer's colony from which James Jones was once a part. Jones' \\"From Here to Eternity' was written from Jones' experience in World War II, and so it is also with \\"Never So Few.'     The subject matter concerns itself with guerrilla operations in Burma having the Kachin native troops highlighted.  Their mission is of course to fight the Japanese troops in Burma and to do so they must fight behind the Japanese lines. It \\"...is a violent, exhausting, perilous life.\\"    The attention Tom Chamales paid to details is noteworthy in this his first novel. Should you enjoy reading on World War II and don't mind reading a novel this book will satisfy you.    The Kachins, the Burma theatre, and the experience of being there will fill several informing hours for you.    Semper Fi.	2005-05-11
US	16426349	R2R1BHYCTPEQRF	0306812614	513451103	Last Chance For Victory: Robert E. Lee And The Gettysburg Campaign	Books	5	10	15	N	N	A Good Addition To The Gettysburg Library	I recently came upon this book in trade copy in a remainder bookstore and have enjoyed reading it.    From the other reviews here, one can fairly quickly see that by some readers this is a somewhat controversial book. Some have said it is pro-Lee, pro-South, and anti anything the authors don't agree with.    I'm essentially a Unionist, having members of our family perish as Unionists on the battlefield; I have a couple Civil War discharges on the wall, and also a G.A.R. medal that I cherish. So even though I am 'pro-Union' I can state unequivocally that I not only appreciate this book, but commend the authors for a large job well done.    Through much reading I've come to appreciate General Lee as not only a great man as a general, but an even greater man in general, and feel General Lee deserves a hearing such as this. I feel pleasure and honor that I visited Washington & Lee University to view Lee & Traveler's resting places.    And I know of few authors who do not somewhat 'fall under the spell' of the great person of history of whom they write.  Still I would recommend this book to one and all.    I would think it best, however, for any reader coming to this book to have some background in Civil War history prior to their reading. Concerning this book, that would be my only suggestion.    All-in-all I think this is a very good book.    Semper Fi.	2005-05-10
US	16426349	R3673HKEE1EL4C	0195019091	923938014	Thomas Jefferson and the New Nation: A Biography (Galaxy Books)	Books	5	32	38	N	N	Holds Up Well	The other reviews here go into some depth on the book, but mine rather is more in the form of a personal testament. There is so much to Jefferson's life, as with our other founding 'fathers' that I will not do him the injustice of trying to sum it up in only a few paragraphs.    When this book came out in 1970 I was in college, I'm now 61 years of age. Gives some indication how long this book has been continuously in print. With good reason for this is probably the best single volume on Jefferson's life ever printed.    When I was at Monticello last year I noticed several books on or about Jefferson  in the Mountaintop Shop and Monticello Museum, but prominently displayed too was this volume. Whenever I go to Borders bookstores this volume is on their shelves. It continues to be ubiquitous after almost 35 years.    This book is and has been an essential in my library, along side the Dumas Malone study, as well nigh on to 20 other volumes on Jefferson or his times. Though the subject matter in books on Thomas Jefferson is varied and extensive, this one volume study is an essential one for me.    I recommend it to both the novice or the seasoned Jefferson reader, neither will be disappointed.    Semper Fi.	2005-05-02
US	16426349	R2TEVZ8H2R6C8Z	0553280988	261267980	The Key-Lock Man: A Novel	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Manhunt	This Louis L'Amour dates back to December, 1985, when Bantam issued it in paperback, but the genesis of the story goes back much farther, first seeing light of day as a short story. As with several of Louis' longer writings they started out as short stories in a magazine.  Some suffer from that, but this one certainly does not.    The location of this western novel is in the area of Utah and Arizona between the Painted Desert and Black Mesa. This is Indian country known as the Navajo Mountain Region with both the Navajo and Hopi peoples living in the area.    I've read this one several times down through the years, and each rereading holds up very well. The other reviews here pretty much regurgitate the contents of the book, so no need for me to do that.    Essentially it is a chase western, a posse wants to hang Matt Keelock from the highest tree, after they catch him. Problem being, they can never catch him. In fact, several times he saves their 'bacon' which makes them not only feel sheepish, but forces them to reflect on just what type man they are chasing. He can't be that bad, can he?    As with all Louis L'Amour's writings the hero eventually comes out on top. And that is one thing I admire about Mr. L'Amour's books he stood for good against evil. Pragmatic justice with no in between, as Em Sackett said in RIDE THE DARK TRAIL, always ride with the law, never against it.    This ranks very high as one of my personal favorite Louis L'Amour books.  So if you have never read this book, or just want to read it again, you will not find the book lacking.    Semper Fi.	2005-04-30
US	16426349	R2ZGFHFFRST6I1	B0006BS8YS	742997875	Patriotism Limited 1862-1865 : The Civil War Draft and the Bounty System	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	BOUNTY & DRAFT SYSTEM IN THE CIVIL WAR YEARS	This book published by Kent State University Press was written by an Ohio author from Marietta College on the Muskingum River in picturesque Marietta, Ohio.  I came upon the book back in 1967 through the old Civil War Times Illustrated magazine. Being from Ohio, I took note of the book especially with the mention of Kent State and Marietta College, both instituitions being in Ohio.<br /><br />I don't believe many copies of this book would exist with it being a small college limited college print, and I don't believe further that many readers would know of its existence.  On top of that it is a volume that may not have appeal to many readers of the American Civil War.<br /><br />This book came after Professor Murdock's \\"60-page pamphlet\\" on the Ohio draft and bounty system published during the 1963 Civil War centennial, and PATRIOTISM LIMITED 1862-1865 is essentially a book focusing on the draft system in New York, but mentions that \\"eight out ten avoided the draft!\\". The book also takes into account \\"the brokers, jumpers, bounties, dedicated draft officials, as well as rascals who managed and mismanaged Mr. Lincoln's efforts to field an effective (Union) fighting force.\\".<br /><br />The bounty system was to be found in all states, however, Professor Murdock choose the largest state which was New York for his study. His main two lessons stated are that draft officials, due their general unpopularity, had a job that was burdensome, and lastly he feels a general draft to be a fair, equitible way to manage the requirments of wartime manpower staffing.<br /><br />The book runs to a length of 270 pages and has a nice photo section, also having a notes section to the text, with a biographic note and general index. Inspite of its age, the pages are of very good stock and my copy has very little aging and yellowing.  Published without dustjacket the book has an interesting cloth binding showing \\"Another Chance! To avoid the draft. 400 dollars bounty surrounding a war eagle in its center.  The back cover is almost the opposite saying: \\"Enlist in the 7th Ind. Cavalry. The Regiment has been recently authorised by the Secretary of War, and is to be commanded by J.P.C. Shanks, An able, efficient and experienced office, having served on the Staff of Majo General Fremont, during his Campaign in Missouri and Western Virginia.  $100 bounty to all inexperienced recruits, $400 to \\"Veteran Volumteers\\" ...\\".  All this an more are shown as a recruiting avertisement with a Lieut. S.M. Lake, Recruiting Officer for 7th Ind. Cavalry.<br /><br />Any reader interested in the draft system in use between 1862 and 1865 is advised to take note of this book.  Dated as it may be, it still makes for unique and interesting reading.	2005-04-29
US	16426349	RC12F6NNG0W34	0306812460	138741317	That Body of Brave Men: The U.S. Regular Infantry and The Civil War In The West	Books	5	5	6	N	N	My People	Several of my relatives from Ohio fought for the Union during the years 1861-1865 with 4 from my mother's side dying. Other relatives in our family were from Indiana, and I have two Civil War discharges from Indiana units on the wall, plus one G.A.R. medal from 1886.    The 4 that perished were with the Army of the Potomac, Eastern Theatre, but the two extant discharges come from the Western Theatre. I've found it very difficult to find much in print other than regimental histories concerning the Western Theatre. With this admirable book, THAT BODY OF BRAVE MEN I now have a large amount of material at my disposal.    The other reviews here have given synopsis of content, so I will spare you that. I will only say in way of recommendation for this volume that I can count on one hand the number of books in print on the U.S. Regular Infantry in the West. And probably have a finger or two left over.    Though the cost of this book is not small, I still will recommend it.    Semper Fi.	2005-04-27
US	16426349	R11VC5W73VN9ZN	1575001470	118578024	The Western Front	Books	5	4	5	N	N	WORTHWHILE WWI STUDY	I checked this book out from our local library a few years back not expecting much from it. With 'TV Books' I though it would come up short concerning its coverage of WWI.  But to my great surprise this book was an interesting read. The maps and photographs blend with Holmes' narrative to give the reader a very comprehensive offering of WWI. Nothing superficial here! I liked it so much that later when in a larger area bookstore, purchased a copy for myself.  While I have no real, serious critique to offer concerning this book, I do feel the photographs illustrate more the British and Austrailian efforts in the Great War. But rather than be set back by this I am pleased because most WWI books I own or have read concentrate mostly on the 'doughboys.'  Not an expert on this, did minor in history in college.  However, it is just beyond me how any reasonable reader could not enjoy this fairly comprehensive book on WWI.	2005-04-23
US	16426349	R3A8HI4BAAA0XT	0811828689	968090810	Gettysburg Battlefield: The Definitive Illustrated History	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Impressive Book	I've been reading on the Civil War for more than 40 years, yet I do not claim to be an expert. I like to think of myself as just an average 'joe' who has several Civil War discharges hanging on the wall from relatives. So I read to learn about those times and events, and also to gain understanding into what made members on both sides of our family put on Union blue, costing 5 lives on my mother's side of the family.    I've read the other reviews here and know nothing of the politics or discrediting, or errors contained within this volume. I purchased this volume and would not ask for the money back, I am satisfied. Further I have several other photographic volumes, including all of William Frassanito's, and can state for myself that I've yet to see a better overall compilation concerning Gettysburg. Some have complained of the small size of photos, well many years back when acquiring the 6-volume set of THE IMAGE OF WAR: 1861-1865, I purchased a magnifying glass and have no problem putting it to use where this Gettysburg volume is concerned.    As far as typos or incorrect information goes, does there exist any book ever published that is a complete and  correct one without errors. I have found that today's editing is not as good as it once was, and I believe desktop publishing to be the culprit. Also, after spending 12 years in college, I'm certain not all editors graduated at the top of their class.    I will no doubt come in for my share of criticism concerning this review, but I rhetorically have to ask, \\"What more could the average person expect from a volume this size on a subject as vast as Gettysburg?\\"    Existing errors not withstanding, this is an admirable effort by the author, and a very worthwhile volume. I'm satisfied to have it on the shelf among many other volumes of the American Civil War.    Semper Fi.	2005-04-22
US	16426349	R12OTKQGE9IOHD	0553247670	252182680	Catlow: A Novel	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Gold Fever & Indian Trouble	This book from June, 1963, has its locale in the desert area of Sonora, the Southwestern U.S. and Mexico. The Frank McCarthy painting used on the cover of the Bantam paperback has always held my interest as being somewhat unique for L'Amour books.    This is a light-hearted romp concerning a legend of Mexican gold being carried on mule train or 'conducta'.  And though the United States law and the entire Mexican Army will be after Bijah Catlow he is going to try to get the gold. But the girl, the Mexican General, and passing through Seri Indian country alive, (they use poision-tipped arrows), are complications of which he hadn't reckoned.  Catlow's life long friend Marshal Ben Cowan is another of those complications.  There is alot of humor in this novel, but there is a danger and 'breathlessness' in it also. The book is much better than the movie, starring Yul Bryner and Richard Crenna, which played it too much for laughs.    Re-reading CATLOW is always similiar to meeting an old friend. It is another of the L'Amour books that hold one's attention in its re-reading.    Semper Fi.	2005-04-22
US	16426349	REF6EP9GYWTHD	0873386299	953149012	Three Days at Gettysburg: Essays on Confederate and Union Leadership	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Gettysburg Redux	These essays on Confederate and Union leadership were all edited by Gary Gallagher. And as anyone familiar with his other volumes of Civil War subjects from the University of North Carolina know, this has been a very successful formula for him.    The work herein represents a republishing of work put before the public in 1992 and 1993 with reworked or new material also presented this time around. I have all of his edited volumes from Chapel Hill and rate this just as good.    All of the essays in this volume are organized around Day One, Day Two, and Day Three for the battle of Gettysburg. There are pictures, maps, and the endnotes encompass some 50 pages. The authors included are: Richard A. Sauers, William Glenn Robertson, Carol Reardon, Alan T. Nolan, Gary M. Kross, Robert K. Krick, D. Scott Hartwig, A. Wilson Green, Peter S. Carmichael, and of course, Gary Gallagher. Anyone remotely familiar with the American Civil War will certainly recognize some, if not all, of these writers.    Though many books have been written, and continue so, concerning leadership during the three-day battle of Gettysburg, these authors feel additional areas require investigation. I agree.    This is a well put together volume at normal price for Civil War books, and I recommend it to one and all wanting to further their knowledge on those three days in July, 1863.    Semper Fi.	2005-04-22
US	16426349	R1JLZ9FN151WNE	0553248588	926157736	Shalako: A Novel	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Shalako:  A Zuni Word	This western from Louis L'Amour first saw light-of-day in 1962 as a Bantam soft cover, and has since been reprinted in both soft and hard covers. The action of the novel takes place in the year 1882 with the main character, Shalako, being as lean as 'a famine wolf', a person who could be 'a brooding man, a wary man,' who had little trust in him. He was the quintessential loner of the west, especially the Apache west. He was strong as many of Louis' most memorable characters were, and I believe him to have been patterned on Louis' himself.    With Louis L'Amour's death in June, 1988, we have no further 'new' material from his pen. But thankfully we have many westerns such as this one that can be read, and reread.    And after innumerable readings, this is yet one of my favorite ones. The character appeals to me, as does the time frame of the Apache wars in Arizona, and the international European collection of people. For me this book has as much character development as you will ever find in any of L'Amour's work. But again, I read Louis L'Amour for fun, for adventure, for escapism, not for a lesson in literature such as I found in college. I think too many people look for things in L'Amour's writings that he never, ever intended.    As a man who really knew the desert from experience, books such as this one come across reeking of love of desert and experience. Sometimes when reading a L'Amour such as this one, I pull out one of my hundreds of Arizona Highways magazines to soak up the visuals of his desert writing.    If you read this L'Amour and do not find it favorable, I find it hard to think that any of his writings could please. This is pretty much what the man was and did.    Read this one of the Sonoran Desert and the Apache and enjoy. Take a full bandoleer of cartridges and full canteen along though, for it can get mighty dangerous and thirsty out there in the desert, roaming around with the Apaches on the rampage.    Semper Fi.	2005-04-22
US	16426349	R1X1DKXCFNWIP0	0843942665	435894808	Chiricahua	Books	5	3	3	N	N	PA-NAYO-TISHN	This novel by Will Henry was first published in hard cover by J.B. Lippincott Company in 1972, The book won a best western award and has been available in soft cover for over 30 years now.    Special Note:  The dust jacket on the hard cover edition had the added advantage of carrying a full-cover wrap around painting by Frank McCarthy.    Since the Apaches left few if any written records, their tribal tales are preserved in the oral tradition common to most Indian tribes of the 19th century. This particular tale comes from the year 1883 in a raid up from Mexico by a war leader, Flat Nose, a fierce warrior aligned with Geronimo. Flat Nose attempts in his six-day raid to destroy as much as possible in Arizona Territory.    A stagecoach gets caught up in this Apache country between Pima Bend on way to Tucson. A particular Apache, by name of Pa-nayo-tishn, whose name was shortened to \\"Peaches\\" by U.S. Army troopers, is caught in between the raid and the cavalry.  All of this is somewhat reminiscent of Chatto's actual raid, and if one views the vhs tape Ulzana's Raid, some visual experience can be grained movie-wise of what these Apache lightning-like raids may have resembled.    'Peaches' was a real life person living in those warlike times, serving in and out of the Apache Scouts for General Crook during the U.S. Cavalry campaigns of the 1880's in old Arizona Territory.  To confuse this novel with actual history though would be a mistake.  Will Henry states up front this is not meant to document either the history of Apache Scouts nor the Arizona Territory.  But Will Henry, disclaimers aside, was always able to write novels that were so parallel to actual history that much knowledge comes through by reading his books. And though he has been dead for a few years, his books yet remain highly popular.    As true with all Will Henry/Clay Fisher books, this one is well worth the time spent reading it.    Semper Fi.	2005-04-19
US	16426349	R22N2BNPPQ3X5V	0843943645	742271126	Yellowstone Kelly	Books	5	9	9	N	N	"The Little Man With The Strong Heart"	Prior to entering the military in the late 1950s I saw a movie entitled \\"Yellowstone Kelly.\\" I thought it very good, especially with ole Clint 'Cheyenne' Walker in the lead role. A Warner Brothers extravaganza of the Sioux Wars with John Russell playing the Hunkpapa war leader, Gall.    Later as I began to read westerns I learned that Luther Sage \\"Yellowstone\\" Kelly was a real person, and that he actually did accomplish stupendous things out west. So much so that the Sioux (Lakota) not only feared him, but gave him the honored name \\"The Little Man With The Strong Heart.\\" In this novel from Clay Fisher/Will Henry he is also known as \\"Man Who Never Lays Down His Gun.\\"    He did all this while serving as an Army scout for General George Crook in Crook's far-flung Department of the Platte. Some of his fellow scouts were said to have commented that Kelly could smell an Indian in the dark, better than they could see one in the light of day. In his days of Army service he very much helped write the history of the Yellowstone Valley.    This novel based on events from Luther Sage Kelly's life by Clay Fisher was published in hardcover in 1957. In and out of print since then, it has more recently been reprinted by Leisure Westerns using Will Henry as author. Since they were both pen names for William Henry Allen, no matter how they print the book or to whom they give credit as author, this is one wonderful saga from the mists of those far gone times.    Do yourself a favor, and spend a couple nights reading this. Your time spent with Luther Sage Kelly, or Yellowstone Kelly will not be wasted.    Semper Fi.	2005-04-18
US	16426349	R2BKYDMUZGHZK	039443112X	251746512	Japanese Inn: A Reconstruction of the Past	Books	5	34	36	N	N	Inn On The Tokaido Road	During my years in the military, my last 26 months were spent in the Yokohama-Tokyo area on the Kanto Plain. A short distance from the Navy/U.S.M.C. military installation where I lived, lay the Tokaido Road. On this ancient main road, which ran from Kyoto to Edo (Tokyo), just a few miles southwest from our base was the 'Minaguchi-ya' of this book.    We were only 20 minutes or so from Odawara, the medieval castle town at the base of Mount Fuji and the Hakone Mountains. Many of the wood cuts and pen and inks in this book came from this area, with Hiroshige and Basho, among others, spending much time there. This area too was one of the 53 government post stations or gates on the ancient Tokaido Road. Only a short distance from Mount Fuji is of course Shimizu Harbor, Miho, and Suruga Bay, all mentioned in the book.    One of the Japanese college students working in our barracks lived on the Izu Peninsula. 'Takish' saw that I was reading JAPANESE INN and offered to bring me some material from his home area of which he was justifiably proud. One of the anomalies of that area is the black sand covering the beaches.  The brochures and postcards he brought added even extra enjoyment to my reading of JAPANESE INN. Here I was a young man from Ohio serving in the military and all the places mentioned by  Oliver Statler were relatively close to hand.    As Mr. Statler continuously points out, much of Japan's earlier history happened in this area. It still remained a very revered area during my stay from October, 1962 through December, 1964. With Kamakura, between Yokohama and Odawara,  once being an earlier capital of Japan. The area discussed in this book is not only historical but it is  extremely picturesque, remaining a resort area of hotels, hot springs, and golf courses to this day. The festivals and Odawara castle continuously bring visitors from far and wide, making it a very active area for sightseeing.    Anyone interested in Japan and her pre-modern era has a realtreat awaiting should they decide to read JAPANESE INN. I've read the book about this historical inn several times since leaving Japan, and each time it transports me back to those happy years in that area where I once resided, so long ago. I was young and that area of Japan was one indescribably wonderful in which to growup. I spent much time in the area, even camping out overnight at Kojiri campground, in the Hakone Mountains. And at age 61 its affect remains with me to this very day.    Yomu, Tanoshimu.  Domo arigato gozaimasu.    To read, to enjoy. Thank you very much!    Semper Fi.	2005-04-12
US	16426349	R2BSHS9MQJLCDP	0850529468	827039273	Bowmen of England (Pen and Sword Military Classics)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	English Long Bowmen	This is volume 1 in the Pen & Sword Military Classic series. The series was initiated in 2003 with 26 titles. The series is a continuing one, and looks to cover a multitude of military subjects, all well worth reading should one have both time and money to do so.    This one particularly caught my eye due interest in medieval times, and the revolutionary English longbow. A device so simple, yet so deadly, as to its impact on warfare of that time, giving ripple effect into much later times as well. As the author states that time began in the Hundred Years War. With the skill and perfection of it all happening in the 14th & 15th centuries.    The English longbow is a long, hand-drawn bow, used in medieval England, sometimes exceeding 6 feet (1.8 meters) in length. It took both strength and skill to handle the bow, but in the hands of a skilled archer, it was as deadly as  a modern day bullet. I find it of great interest that an arrow could very easily penetrate much of the armor of that time. Not only were armored knights at risk, but so too the horse they rode, be the steed armored or not.    And when the arrow did not provide a killing shot, an archer now fighting on foot, could approach the downed and disabled armored knight, much as a turtle on it back, to thrust a knife blade through the chink of said knight's armor to apply the killing blow.    I found everything is this slim volume of less than 200 pages of interest. Should I have to pick a most memorable chapter, it would be the prologue. Wherein the author pretty much describes not only the use of the bow in action, but also the bowmen themselves. It's as close to medieval combat as we are get without actually be present.    To be able to find a book such as this on today's bookstore shelf is truly joyous.  Read this one for sure if you have any interest in English history, medieval history, or that most wonderful invention the longbow.    Semper Fi.	2005-04-02
US	16426349	R10KXE4MGY9FS4	0199279349	658558853	Churchill: The Unexpected Hero	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Good Addition To Sir Winston's Understanding	I've waited the past two months to receive a copy of this short biography on Sir Winston Leonard Spencer Churchill. Reading this book does not disappoint.    This short work, though fair and favorable to Sir Winston, also discusses the controversies of his career. Not everyone in Britain was a fan of Churchill, with some disliking him, with others fearing he would ever have any part of the government. In spite of his monumental contributions to the World War II years, some never lost their mistrust nor dislike of the man.    As an American, I see him as the beacon of hope for war-torn Britain. The best possible man to lead the country during those years, an uncrowned king giving the British people the hope and stamina needed to go on, day by day, overcoming all the suffering World War II brought them. Should he not have been the best, surely there existed no one better. When one thinks today of World War II Britain, one must think of Winston Churchill. They have become intertwined and inseparable.    Even from his earliest years, Churchill always felt he was a person of destiny; so was able to equally accept and act in that role. One must wonder what England would have been without him. Prior to the war he was seen as too strident and hawkish, once the war began however his views and demeanor coincided exactly to the needs of the time. Once the war was over, most of the country turned their backs to him at the polls, feeling he was not up to running a tamer, peacetime government.    Being neither British, nor ignoring his earlier government service prior to World War II (he was 65 in 1940 at time of his becoming Prime Minister with many years of government service behind him), I cannot agree with their post war thinking. And as discussed in this slim volume, I agree with the author that the mistrust and distrust of earlier Liberal versus Tory episode was ever overcome. Too many felt they just could not count on, nor place their full trust in this man.    Winston Churchill is my 'cup of tea'. One of the few 20th Century men of both character and leadership.  True, he had both great flaws and great abilities as well; and this book fairly shows both.    Recommended reading.    Semper Fi.	2005-04-02
US	16426349	R2TYFEJOTB4HM0	039541685X	537283254	The Second World War	Books	5	109	120	N	N	Sir Winston Leonard Spencer Churchill, 1874-1965	I started reading these six volumes during my military service in the 1960s, and have not been without them since. I have not only the hardcover edition, but picked up this paperback set also.    I've always felt the good side of Britain turning their collective backs to this great man after World War II, not returning him to office, was the greatest blessing of all. For to us that action directed him to write these volumes of war memories, and in my mind's eye can see him standing, for he always stood to do his later writings, with both cigar and whisky and soda firmly in hand. Revisiting his firm convicitions that right would eventually triumph over wrong, good over evil. Taking comfort that he almost alone, gave both voice and backbone to England during their darkest hour.    He always believed too in the myth that King Arthur would return during England's hour of greatest need, and his romantic side must have seen himself somewhat filling that role. He always said if Arthur did not exist, he should have.     From his earliest, youthful days in office at the turn of the 20th century, he always had a gift for both good writing and good speech. His weak speaking voice, sometimes with lisp, may not have always equalled these abilities, but many of his speeches and writings yet give evidence of this talent.    I still recall one older gent telling me in a book store years ago that to read these six volumes he needed continuously both a dictionary and Bible by his side. He was happy to share his enjoyment in these books with me, as many thousands of other readers down through the years have also shared in that enjoyment.    I'm so prejudiced that it would seem remiss for any World War II library to be without these volumes. No matter what else one reads, I feel this set of books to be requisite to anyone's study and enjoyment of those war years.    I would recommend these six volumes without any hesitation to one and all. Only the most hard at heart could be againstthis monumental work. And the farther World War II recedes into the past, the more monumental they become.    Semper Fi.	2005-04-02
US	16426349	RZHRBDCL8FS7K	030435208X	634305378	Cassell Military Classics: Operation Sea Lion: The German Plan To Invade Britain, 1940	Books	3	8	8	N	Y	Operation Sea Lion, NOT!	One of the best things this book has going for it is being included in the Cassell Military classic paperbacks. It is one of 3 dozen I've purchased. As with the others this one is of interest.    It is well written and though it is translated from the German, hold ups well.  It was originally published as OPERATION SEALOWE in 1987.    As an in depth look into Operation Sea Lion or, Sealowe in the German, it bombs out. It is, however, a very excellent recapitulation of the early years of World War II, from 1940 onward. Out of 26 chapters, in Chapter 24 we get to the occupation of the Channel Islands. Chapter 23 ends the battle of Britain, with Chapter 20 being the big day, \\"Adler Tag\\" or Eagle Day.    I'm not knocking the book as being a bad book because it isn't. On the contrary, it is a very interesting book. A very good book.    It is NOT however a book about Operation Sea Lion. Since it covers the war inside and outside Britain in general, it is a misnomer of sorts. The sub-title, \\"The German Plan To Invade Britain, 1940\\" gets worked into the narrative, eventually. But silly me, with a title such as OPERATION SEA LION I expected the total focus to be exactly that, the operation itself.  And it most certainly is not.    I spent a good year or more tracking a copy of this book down. It is only one of three of World War II I have concerning Operation Sea Lion.  While I would recommend it as a good World War II book could not,however, recommend it as a good book focusing on OPERATION SEA LION.    Semper Fi.	2005-03-28
US	16426349	RGYH5Y1I1BY3	0871315718	695477644	The Eye of the Hunter (An Evans Novel of the West)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	"TAKE THE ASH OFF A MOSQUITO'S CIGARETTE"	This Evans hardcover western from April, 1989, is one of the more enjoyable of all the books I have by this remarkable writer. Frank Bonham was a very prolific writer of both short stories from the 'pulp western' days down to the mass market western novels.  With Leisure Books having recently printed several of his short story collections.    The Eye of the Hunter finds Henry Logan with malarial bad lungs from the Spanish American War and is eager to accept an assignment hunting a missing man in Arizona. Henry, somewhat of a marksman, is said to be able to shoot the ash off a mosquito's cigarette!  Now the people of Nogales believe him to be a slick gunman rather than as the gunsmith Henry Logan maintains as his occupation. All of this will now make it much more difficult to find the missing Rip Parrish, since the villagers think he just wants to kill Rip Parrish.  Enter Parrish's \\"bewitchingly beautiful wife\\", an added factor which may just help lead Henry Logan to the mysterious Mr. Parrish. Or to a bullet from either man or wife.    A novel of a missing man, his beautiful wife, and a missing fortune all add up to a great novel set in Arizona.  \\"Arizona would be great for Logan's health, if it didn't kill him first\\".  Great fun in a western read, the last from Mr. Bonham.    Semper Fi.	2005-03-06
US	16426349	R1YBNHFE5VQK0J	0452278651	223524794	Black Robe: A Novel	Books	5	42	44	N	N	Very Unique Book	Too bad this one can't be rated higher than 5-stars. I first read this one back in the 80s, then seeing the movie. I have both the hardcover edition and the DVD. That's how good I feel this material to be.    This book caused me to track down Francis Parkman's writing on France & England in the new world. Later caused me to purchase a few books on Father DeSmet and his work with the western Indian tribes. Though Fenimore Cooper's writings overstated the case of the last of the Mohicans, this writing on the Huron really does document the end of the Hurons as a people.    Don't know if anyone will be interested in this review this late after this book has passed its prime.    But reading on the Huron experience and the Black Robes stays with me both as interesting historical experience, and enjoyable reading. If you combine the book with the VHS or DVD, the visual aspects make the material more imprinted on your mind.    Though Brian Moore is deceased, his works, especially this one, live on. Hopefully many people will yet be interested in this one.    Highly recomended.    Semper Fi.	2005-03-06
US	16426349	R10MC57DY44K8A	0843949910	397339141	Into the Far Mountains	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	APACHE RANSOM	Anyone who has read Fred Grove's material knows first hand that he is both a terrific stylist and talented author; in addition an author of great research, knowledge, and authenticity.    This book deals with a young boy, Jimmy Lattimore, captured in a stagecoach attack by an Apache raiding party led by Juh, a ruthless and cruel war chief who even other Apaches shun, who has moved with the boy to the farthest reaches of the Burro mountain area of New Mexico. The task at hand for Jesse Wilder and the child's mother, Susan Lattimore, is to enlist the help of Miguel Garcia, a mejicano who suffered the same experience as Jimmy, to reach the Apaches and arrange a ransom back of the young child. The Apaches see the activity of ransom as weakness and according to Cochise in the novel have never done it.  In the pages of this western novel both fictional and historical characters come alive so the reader can almost feel, touch and taste the desert, the mountains, and feel the dread of being in close proximity to the 'human tigers' of these rough, deadly terrains, the Apaches.    This novel of people in the post civil war west will both entertain and educate the reader as the story unfolds. If you enjoy  westerns and human interest yarns, this one should not be missed.    Unfortunately the book is at this late date generally available only through 2nd hand book dealers. But if the interest is there a copy can certainly be obtained. And I'm betting the reader will want to also read the other 2 or 3 books in the Jesse Wilder saga, BITTER TRUMPET and MAN ON A RED HORSE.    Highly recommended by an ole \\"book\\"aroo such as myself.    Semper Fi.	2005-03-06
US	16426349	R1WPIQHPXS0UEP	0806135646	562375585	On a Silver Desert: The Life of Ernest Haycox	Books	5	15	15	N	N	A Very Good Read	Another great biography from University of Oklahoma Press: Norman. And in addition, this one is written by the author's son, Ernest Haycox Jr.    If you've read any of Haycox's western novels or short stories, you have to have some interest in the man himself. This biography gives insight into the mind and person of the author who wrote all those wonderful westerns. Back when western writing was sorta looked down upon.    For me one of the mild shocks of the book was the self doubt this author often had. It's hard for me to take in, for anytime I've read the man's work I was amazed at his talent. I have a full shelf of his work, just picking up another one in a second hand bookstore yesterday. One I did not know existed, and by coincidence it is entitled: THE SILVER DESERT. A very close match to the title of this biography.    Another interesting fact for me is the lack of material ever written about and of this giant of the western writing world. We can truly be thankful his son took this project on, giving us details of his father's life and work.    Ernest Haycox's books and stories were oft times brought to the Hollywood screen.  The movies are still available as are the books. See for instance TROUBLE SHOOTER which documents the building of the Union Pacific railroad, THE BORDER TRUMPET writing on the Arizona Apache wars, or BUGLES IN THE AFTERNOON one of the best books ever on the Custer debacle at Little Big Horn.    Many letters and photographs fill this wonderful book, too.  U of Ok has done it again. Another fine addition to any western library, be your interest in the west either fictionial or non-ficional.    Semper Fi.	2005-03-04
US	16426349	RATOYLMAY572A	0553253247	35521993	Dark Canyon: A Novel	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Nothing 'Dark' About This Book	Just finished reading this one for the 3rd time in a decade. I place this book along side the best Louis L'Amour wrote. That includes HONDO, SHALAKO, and among others, HIGH LONESOME.    This one can be read in just a few hours, at one sitting. But that doesn't detract one iota from the excellence of this western.    This 1963 western has the canyonlands of Southeastern Utah as it locale. Situated in the Robbers Roost area of the Colorado River. A very rough and isolated area reaching 3,000 feet, in some places. An area I'm sure Mr. L'Amour from experience knew only too well.    I seldom like dealing with plots, because I don't want someone spoiling the beginning, middle, or ending for me. The plot is very plausible, however, for in the west many men who started against the law, eventually rode for the law, becoming good citizens. One of the interesting facts of this book which I had forgotten, is the appearance of Tell Sackett. And I recall from another L'Amour book, Emily Sackett stating the Sacketts were always to ride with the law, never against it. So, if Tell Sackett sides 'Lord' Riley, the main character, you know, as Louis would say,  Riley is one to ride the river with.    If you have never read much Louis L'Amour this one is an excellent one to launch your reading. If you are a seasoned reader you will still find several hours enjoyment with this classic western. It reaffirms just how much a master with the western Louis at times could be.    Semper Fi.	2005-02-28
US	16426349	RZ3Y31YDZ4LTO	0553803573	292443136	The Collected Short Stories of Louis L'Amour: The Frontier Stories, Vol. 1	Books	5	21	22	N	N	About Time	I have all Louis L'Amour's writings in hardcover, and though these short stories are scattered throughout those 100 books, it is about time they appeared in their own right, in separate hardcover.    The one thing somewhat surprising is of this date, only 5 reviews are listed here for this collection. There are 35 stories in this hardcover, and while they are not all classics, each and everyone is very good, to say the least. And while I've been reading Louis on/off for the last 35 years, it is good to know that a newer generation will still have the reading pleasure he gives.    Louis was writing short stories for pulps and western magazines long before he attempted any novels. He, as with Ernest Hemingway, learned his craft very well. If he hadn't, he would not have been paid, and would have washed out as a writer. While I personally think Louis wrote too many 'non-essential' books, those he has written are all at least readable. I would rather he had spent more time on his Sackett, Talon, & Chantry, series, and less time on other marginal books. For when he died, that series was left unfinished, never to be finished.    A few of my personal favorites from this 1st volume would be: The Gift of Cochise, Trap of Gold, End of the Drive, A Mule for Santa Fe, Ironwood Station, and Beyond the Chaparral.     I've got the 2nd volume on order, and will reread all these stories once again. My favorite short stories of Louis are I believe included in this 2nd volume. For the Chick Bowdre Texas Ranger stories are just about the best Mr. L'Amour ever wrote.    Semper Fi.	2005-02-25
US	16426349	R3LXB8CFZQYIIV	0553802992	238913877	Hondo	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Southeastern Arizona Dispatch Rider	The area of this novel is southeastern Arizona in the area of the Chiricahua Mountains during the Apache wars. The main character is Hondo Lane, riding dispatch and scout for General Crook. He has a companion who sides him, \\"a rough-looking mongrel dog,\\" named Sam.    Most of the reviews herein show ample evidence to the enjoyment and value of this novel. Most give it either 4 or 5 stars. Not too many, though some exist, are negative regarding this story. So it's safe to say this is a very good western. I think it possibly the best Louis L'Amour ever penned. I've read the book more times than I can count, having several hardcover and softcover on my shelves. It's a quick, engrossing read, but such an entertaining one, too.    One of the elements that strike me, is the number of people who cannot separate John Wayne from this story. They seem linked together forever. I recall seeing the picture back in the 1950s, yes the story is that old, and the movie was shot in 3-D. If you are of a certain age you will know what that means, and also what a dud 3-D turned out to be. Considering John Wayne, I think the movie did him a great service as a starring role; and though I have a large piece of artwork from the movie on my western wall, of John and his faithful dog, Sam, directly behind him, I never forget that the short story, and book came first. Not the other way round.    So give Mr. L'Amour the credit, for without the story, no movie. But again, they do seem inseparable.    Though this book can stand along side \\"Shane\\" I think the two very different books. The subject matter and time frame doesn't match either. Hondo Lane belongs to a time of seizing the land, Shane belongs to a later time, when gunfighters are quickly becoming obsolete, and 'sodbuster' settlers are seizing the land.    One last interesting element for me is the various thoughts and glimpes each reader receives from Hondo. Read the reviews, and you will see that the book is truly a universal western,meaning many things to many people.    Louis L'Amour's own words may describe it best, \\"...American stories, the stories I wish to tell, and if I have not told them well, I shall have tried.\\"    Semper Fi.	2005-02-25
US	16426349	R5MEYNXTG8MZG	0806127708	749452315	Al Sieber: Chief of Scouts	Books	5	17	18	N	N	Chief of Scouts	This is the book that brought Dan L. Thrapp to my attention, this first book of his published in 1964 by the University of Oklahoma.    Al was a German immigrant, as were some of my ancestors, who came to this country just in time to put on Union blue, as too with 5 of my ancestors, during the Civil War. He received a wound at Gettysburg, causing him to limp the remainder of his life. After the war, he found himself in Arizona just in time for the Apache wars.    Al was a favorite of General Crook, serving him for many years. Being a manager for a quarter century, I've always felt alot is told about a person by the people reporting to them. In Al Sieber's case, or 'Sibi' as he was called, strong people such as Mickey Free, Tom Horn, Sam Bowman, Archie MacIntosh, and Severiano, among others, all reported to Al, helping to get the job done.    One important point to recall: the Apaches both respected and trusted Al, which did not happen with many whites. Many times Al called Geronimo a liar to his face, (see A Kinney Griffith book on Mickey Free). He frequently was among all the 'wild ones'.  Should Al ever wanted to kill Geronimo, he certainly had the opportunity several times to do so. In fact, trust was a two way street, both in Al's relationship with the Apache Kid and many other Apaches. His close working during and after the wars eventually lead to his death at the hands of the Apache.    After all the years, this is still a remarkable book, well worth reading.    Semper Fi.	2005-02-24
US	16426349	RMRNB6YBT1X33	0806112867	106704651	The Conquest of Apacheria	Books	5	19	20	N	N	35 years later	Dan L. Thrapp has been dead for 10 years or so, but this first big book of his on Apacheria from 1967, is still to be found in almost every footnote or bibliography of books written on the Apache. Following on the heels of his 1964 biography of Al Sieber, this is an epic book. His writings helped give birth to many of today's writers scholarship and contributions concerning this area of study. Both Dan Thrapp and The University of Oklahoma have a classic study with this book; a definite milestone of publishing for its time.    I've read this book several times, and still can remember obtaining it back in the late 1960s; there just wasn't much available in this field of study containing good, solid, comprehensive history on the Apaches. Since that time, and I attribute it directly to Dan's reseach, much material has been published not only specifically on the Apaches, but also the Arizona Territory in general.    Though this wonderful volume is now only mostly available in trade paperback, and costs several times what the original hardcover cost, it is a study still most essential for anyone's library who reads on the Apache and the Indian fighting army of those years, in that area.    The word 'classic' can today be overused, but this book truly is in any sense of the word, a major classic.    Semper Fi.	2005-02-22
US	16426349	R3VGASLFEJTHHK	0806129735	739447056	Making Peace With Cochise: The 1872 Journal of Captain Joseph Alton Sladen	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Diary History at its Best	Another book on my shelf from U. of Oklahoma that gets better with rereading.    Though this one was released more than 5 years ago, it reads as though written yesterday. And that is something, since the diary that underpins it was written in 1872.    This is must reading for anyone enjoying information of the period of the Apache wars in Arizona/New Mexico area. Other than the author's previous biography on Cochise, nothing is available giving personal views of Cochise and his people. And Cochise's statement that no whiteman would look upon his face was well kept.  These two military men, and Tom Jeffords were among the few that ever did.    Enough good words cannot be said about this one.    Semper Fi.	2005-02-21
US	16426349	R630RAQQE3GKP	0304364002	107577015	Crete 1941: The Battle at Sea (Cassell Military Paperbacks)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	CASSELL MILITARY PAPERBACKS	This is only one of the numerous CASSELL paperback reprints in my collection, and I really believe that for the money, versus the history given, these are some of the best books available.    This one concerns the battle for Crete, 1941, but as the cover clearly states, this has to do with the battle at sea.  The land battle for Crete went to the Germans, and likewise the battle at sea.  The RAF provided little to no protection, resulting in 'target practice' for the Luftwaffe.  The Royal Navy wasn't too 'royal' losing 3 cruisers, 8 destroyers, 2 battleships and 1 aircraft carrier.  While other cruisers and battleships suffered various degrees of damage.  Oh yeah, close to 2,000 officers and men of the Royal Navy were killed in action.    All of this ties in with the several months of action for the Royal Navy in conjunction with the Yugoslavian, Grecian, and Crete campaigns.  All of which would have been better for the British and the Royal Navy had they stayed home and skipped the debacle.    This book was originally published in 1972, and CASSELL is to be commended for reissuing it.  Makes a good companion the other studies on the land battles for Crete.  Very informative read.    Semper Fi.	2005-02-21
US	16426349	R2GNQYM8XPO8L1	0870041304	394008967	Mickey Free, manhunter,	Books	5	4	5	N	N	PRIMARY SOURCE	Griffith knew many of the people he writes about, with his death only this book can approximate the real life story of Mickey Free. One of Griffith's main sources for this 1969 book was Nino Cochise. Mr. Griffith spent most of his life collecting information for this single book. Readers of Mickey Free owe Griffith much gratitude. The manuscript initially saw print in the old Joe Small magazine OLD WEST prior to actual book publication. Joe split the story up into a couple issues of OLD WEST.    This is the best available source on Mickey Free bar none. Should you have interest in the life of Mickey Free do as I did 20 years back, don't hesitate to purchase this book and read it for yourself. You will never have cause to regret it.    Mickey's story deserves to be told to as many readers as possible.  He was the real true west man of legend, only the legend concerning him is true.  Whenever there was a tough, dirty, near impossible job to do, Al Sieber stated he always gave it to Mickey, and Mickey never failed to come through for 'Sibi'.  And while you are at it, pick up a copy of Dan L. Thrapp's monumental book from 1964 on Al Sieber, chief of scouts. You will never regret having this classic on your shelves either.    Enju.    Semper Fi.	2005-02-21
US	16426349	RA7DQYP27Q4QT	0306813203	390732881	Halfbreed: The Remarkable True Story Of George Bent - Caught Between The Worlds Of The Indian And The White Man	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Unique Biography	I was pleasantly surprised to see this biography on George Bent, up until now, the only other writing I have is from the University of Oklahoma. And that volume was put together from his letters and writings.    The reviews listed here pretty much agree with my take on this book. Again I feel that almost anything factual on George Bent is to be received with 'thanks'. For there is so little on the man out there. And he was a key individual living in both white and Indian worlds.    So if you have interest in the Bent family, Bent's Fort, or the Southern Cheyennes, this book can hardly fail to hold your attention.    I read it as soon as I could, and will read it again, and again.    Semper Fi.	2005-02-21
US	16426349	R3LTJN3MNX0TMA	0711026785	655012532	Channel Islands at War: A German Perspective	Books	5	23	24	N	N	Channel Island's Occupation	This larger hardcover book, though similiar to the softcover Battleground Europe book on the channel islands, offers a much more depth of detail and pictorial coverage.    These 4 islands of less than 100,000 people, were occupied by the Germans for 5 years during World War II. The Germans invaded in the summer of 1940, and were there until 1945. Through those years they were occupied and fortified. Though the occupation was fairly pacific, the \\"hunger winter\\" of 1944-45 took its toll. The islands were also to see much activity by German civilian bureaucrats, and Organization Todt (OT).    The original troops earmarked for invasion were there only for a short time, when they were pulled out, to be replaced by other older less battle worthy. With the original troops to be sent to the Eastern Front. The original commandant Major Dr. Lanz would himself too die on the Russian front. All the island troops were known as the \\"Canada\\" troops, for most German soldiers felt that should the islands be retaken by the Allies, the occupying German troops would end their days in a Canadian POW camp.    These islands came to direct German notice due their proximity to France during the air war of 1940. They were to be used as part of Operation Sea Lion, the German invasion of Britain that never occured. Adolf Hitler always held great and continuing interest in these 4 islands, intending their use as a place for rest and relaxtion for the German peoples after the war ended.    The subtitle of this volume is \\"A German Perspective\\" and as such uses many photographs taken by the German occupiers themselves. There are maps and photographs in abundance.    As stated in my review of the softcover, \\"Channel Islands,\\" my interest was piqued by the fictional writings of Jack Higgins. He has included bits and pieces in some of his novels, plus he is reported to reside on one of them. So, if you are somewhat like me, you may find this book, or the softcover, of riveting interest.    Semper Fi.	2005-02-19
US	16426349	R2K1YI1DFNFPN3	0850528585	423390104	Atlantic Wall: Channel Islands: Jersey, Guernsey, Alderney, Sark (Battleground Europe)	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Army of Occupation	This Battleground Europe paperback on the Channel Islands: Jersey, Guernsey, Alderney, and Sark from World War II is afforable and interesting.  Lt.Col. Forty also covers this same subject in his hardbound, larger volume \\"Channel Islands at War.\\"  Both books, depending on one's interest, and pocketbook, are worth the time.<br /><br />I became interested in the channel islands of WWII through some of the fictional works of Jack Higgins. A few plots of his novels either take place there, or make mention of the islands. Also, Mr. Higgins is reported to reside on one of them.<br /><br />The total population of these 4 islands never exceeded 100,000, and was probably closer to 90,000. The home government in London had a hard time determining how they were to be handled, and finally decided on evacuation. But only just as the Germans were bombing and invading. The resultant occupation, and fortification of these island is the focus of Mr. Forty's interesting narratives.<br /><br />If you want to study another of the off beaten track type WWII book, or two, these are the ones.<br /><br />Semper Fi.	2005-02-19
US	16426349	R1MJWYLHT9ISHD	055328102X	271067121	The Tall Stranger: A Novel	Books	3	13	13	N	N	Early L'Amour	This book was first released in 1957, while Louis L'Amour, though a selling author, was yet somewhat a writer in training. It is interesting to read some of these earlier works, they help to not only see his later growth in writing, but to get a glimpse of the younger writer working out those things important to him. Some of which would continue as content in his later writings.    This particular western has as its main subject the Oregon Trail, and it is peopled with the types of men and women heading west to build or rebuild their lives. The action centers in the western U.S. circa 1860, midtime or late in the western exodus. Bishop's valley, the main area of their settling, is found close to the Teton range in western Wyoming. Much of this area was then part of the Nebraska Territory. The Oregon Trail left Council Bluffs, Iowa, running parallel to the North Platte River, through this Nebraska Territory crossing the Green River branching off to eventually reach Oregon.    Along the way through treachery, Indian attack, fist fights, and gunfights, new lives will be built, while others will be broken.    All in all, this is an enjoyable read. While very smooth in most places, some ragged parts do exist. Remember, Louis is still putting his skills in order. One item I noticed, was at the ending, one of the main characters, Hardy Bishop has been seriously wounded, yet, unless I missed it, no final report is ever given as to his condition. We must therefore assume he fully recovered.    But for the few hours it takes to read this western, readers will be rewarded with enjoyment.  Early L'Amour, still good reading.    Semper Fi.	2005-02-18
US	16426349	R2C0AEV1RE8M97	0807828939	273321938	Vicksburg: The Campaign That Opened the Mississippi (Civil War America)	Books	5	14	20	N	N	To Open The Mississippi	The Vicksburg seige campaign of 1862-1863 has had a few good books written on it, one for instance being Edwin Bearss 3 volumes. But for the general reader desiring only one volume, this latest one from Civil War America, Gary Gallagher editor, from Chapel Hill should be a welcome issue.    The author certainly has credentials. The campaign has been of interest to him since his first trip to the battlefield from his childhood home in north-central Mississippi. He still looks forward to each visit yet today to the \\"Gibraltar of the Confederacy.\\"  And when one marries his wife on Fort Hill, it is safe to say Vicksburg runs through this man's entire being.    Battles and campaigns of the Western Theater of Operations can yet today receive little notice from even the most serious reader of the civil war. It sometimes seems the only army in the field was the Army of the Potomac. And with a new book by Jeffry D. Wert soon to arrive on \\"Lincoln's Sword,\\" the books keep rolling out. And when thinks of the attention Gettysburg has received, one must think in the 1000s where Gettysburg books are concerned.    Yet most readers know that the area of the Army of the Potomac was not the sole area of combat involved. And recently we have been given some very good works on the Western Theater. Such books as the recent \\"Days of Glory\\" by Larry J. Daniel, \\"That Body of Brave Men\\" by Mark W. Johnson, and the earlier two volume work, \\"Army of the Heartland\\" by Thomas Lawrence Connelly, are only three that grace my civil war bookshelf. And it is to be remembered that U.S. Grant too came from this very area. Though some may have questions of General Grant, it does seem a fact that under his generalship the Army of the Potomac began to win battles.    A prevailing feeling today is that neither North nor South may have seen Gettysburg to have the importance we now place on it. Southern newspapers of the time did not view it necessarily as the end of the war. Neither did the North. Yet each area realized immediately just what value Vicksburg held, and what an extreme cost it was for the South to have lost control of the Mississippi. And Ben Butler is still reviled in that area today!    Being from Ohio, I have great interest in movement of the OVI and Ohio cavalry units, and that places my reading quite often in this Western Theatre. There are many things of interest in this book. Even the seasoned reader will find enjoyment here.    And though the Vicksburg campaign ended, many of the southern men fought on.  Though they were paroled after surrender at Vicksburg, many were later at Chattanooga to face General Grant once again!    Semper Fi.	2005-02-16
US	16426349	R1IHLJHTEY2W60	080782870X	16395076	Union Jacks: Yankee Sailors in the Civil War (Civil War America)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Mr. Lincoln's sailors	After reading on the civil war for 40 years or more, one complaint I've had is that no one writes of the Union navy beyond the officers from admirals downward. Since I served in the U.S. Navy from 1961-1967, it isn't strange that I would hold some interest in these earlier shipmates. So I eagerly awaited the University of North Carolina to issue this book. I purchased a copy and was not disappointed.    I feel the book to be well worthwhile if one is interested in the union jack or blue jackets of that era. Some reviewers may have found the book not quite to their liking, but my humble opinion is that with the paucity of books available on this subject, one should be thankful for almost anything that is written on the area.    One of the more interesting items in this book are the pictures and illustrations. What did these men really look like? The appearance of their hats and uniforms? Here and there, some photographic books do give a clue. But I've encountered few that had as their entire subject the blue jacket of that day. It would seem from the pictures, that one need was to have had at least one banjo on board the ship.  And curiously the numbers of navy men barefoot on board. And it was also of interest the number of African American sailors serving on board many of these ships. The Navy welcomed their service at least a year before the Union army, and by war's end upwards of 18% of all Union Navy men were African Americans, honorably serving their country.    With the author's notes covering almost the final 100 pages of this book, it appears very well documented. And as with any Civil War America book from Chapel Hill, you know it is solid history. I applaud this attempt by my fellow Ohioian for his efforts to give these mostly ignored and forgotten men an open hearing. Sadly, they too seemed aware their efforts were lost to history, with the combat armies often being remembered at their expense.    For me, this book is a very good first step in the direction of revealing these men and their naval service to our contemporary readers. I await even more of their stories.    Semper Fi.	2005-02-16
US	16426349	R26FU2QJKG8FSH	0553254774	802501564	Taggart: A Novel	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Salt River basin Arizona	Have just finished reading \\"Taggart\\" again. As in previous readings, the plot and action hold up very well. This is one of Louis' better westerns, right there with Shalako, Hondo, Radigan, and several others.    As the map in the hardcover edition shows, the action takes place in Arizona, mainly at Rockingstraw Mountain. The central action revolves around placer mining from an alluvial fan, to dangerous extraction farther up a mountain, from a strip of rotten quartz \\"six feet wide, and cobwebbed with gold.\\" In all Adam Stark is seeking $100,000.00. All of this is interwoven with numerous Apache attacks, tension in a marriage, and Taggart's attempt to evade capture by a bounty hunter. How this all works out, of course, will be known to the reader upon finishing the book.    The author, who died in 1988, was a very experienced writer and some of his books go beyond western fiction, to become just good literature. This book is close to that class of writing. It can be read in a few hours, but the characters Louis L'Amour created in this effort will stay with the reader much longer.    If you haven't read this one, please do so. If you have, do as I've done several times, read it again.    Semper Fi.	2005-02-15
US	16426349	R1Q0OOK7JDUNJH	0553270222	826632427	The Haunted Mesa: A Novel	Books	5	24	25	N	N	"haunting read"	This book is a \\"haunting read\\" to the degree it is unforgettable. I've read many Louis L'Amour books down through the years, but this one is certainly the most atypical of the entire lot.    Released in September,1987, little less than a year before he died in June, 1988, it has as its locale the contemporary Southwestern frontier. His subject is the cliff dwellers, the Anasazi, who left very little trace of themselves after the year 1250 a.d. The setting is the four-corner area of Utah and Arizona, in the San Juan river area of southern Utah, with mysticism and Indian lore in abundance.    There is not too much to say, for fear of undercutting the suspense filled reading contained in these pages. One cannot quite be sure in what direction the plot will next flow.  Especially when reading of the Varanel, a strong arm group to hold their own with any modern day swat team. It can be said with certainty there are no other characters in Louis L'Amour's books to match those found here.    New books by Louis L'Amour are greatly missed by his thousands of readers. But since his second home seemed to be the desert, having a lifetime's knowledge about and love for desert existence, it allowed him to leave his readers one swell final book to read.    Semper Fi.	2005-02-15
