US	16644854	R21JV2YH4VJ3AX	0758207352	730391031	Blind Trust	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Blind Trust by Leslie Esdaile Banks: An PeoplewholoveGoodBooks Review	Blind Trust is the heart-pounding, suspense-filled, edge-of-the seat sequel to the equally suspenseful Betrayal of the Trust.  Laura is trying to rebuild her life in the Cayman Islands after single-handedly bringing down the most corrupt and poweful families in Philadelphia.....families that were trying to destroy hers.  She is determined to move on with her life and marry the man of her dreams James Carver and begin a new life.  Unfortunately, things begin to quickly spiral out of control.  First a hurricane destroys her home, James disappears, and back home, things begin to happen to her family.  The families she fought to bring down are now seeking revenge and no one and nothing is safe.  Laura has to make the decision to return home and face them and end the fight once and for all.  Leslie Esdaile Banks has proven to be not only a excellent romance writer but also a excellent writer of suspenseful, edge of the seat drama that will grab your attention from the first page.  I give this book 4 stars.  Reviewed by Shay C of PeoplewholoveGoodBooks.	2005-09-21
US	16644854	R1595GS7XAOGJD	0758209045	864723840	Smooth Operator	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Smooth Operator by Janette McCarthy Louard: An PeoplewholoveGoodBooks Review	Callie Hopewell is a 34-year old attorney who lives in New York, she has always done what was expected of her until she meets and falls in love with Henry Kincaid.  Henry is a successful businessman from the Carribbean, against her family's wishes and despite her doubts, Callie is swept off her feet and when Henry asks her to marry him, she accepts........of course, he is NOT what he seems to be.  Callie gets the surprise of her life when she decides to suprise Henry and fly to the islands..........on the way there, she meets Garret Langrin, a man who defines the word \\"player\\" despite his attraction to Callie, she refuses to give him the time of the day.  She feels Henry is the one and feels that Garret would simply be a fling but of course, they meet again and Callie falls herself in a love triangle and when she tries to leave the island to return home, things quickly begin to spiral out of control and she is forced to stay.  The question then becomes who will Callie give her heart and her trust to?? Smooth Operator by Janette McCarthy Louard is for all of you romance lovers who love your romance with a twist of drama and suspense!! This book has it all: Romance, Suspense, Mystery, and Drama.  I give this book 4 stars! Reviewed by Shay C of PeoplewholoveGoodBooks	2005-09-20
US	16644854	R14MQDBOWHBXGF	0312328796	570552150	If I Ruled the World	Books	5	0	0	N	N	If I Ruled the World by Joy: An PeoplewholoveGoodBooks Review	If I Ruled the World by Joy is a must-read! It is one of the best books I have read this year; the story is gritty, heartbreaking, shocking, and riveting.  Harlem Jones is envied by women and desired by men.  She is an \\"independent\\" woman.  Thanks to an inheritance from her grandmother, she owns her house, car, and business. Even though Harlem is from the school of Hard Knocks, her life didn't start off that way but thanks to her mother's addiction, she lost everything: her father, brother, and home.  Needless to say, her relationship with her mother is rocky but her best friend Morgan is her rock.  Morgan is the complete opposite of Harlem, she is book-smart while Harlem is street-smart and while Harlem is picky about the men she sleeps with, Morgan loves the bad boys.  While working in the store one day, the ladies meet Jazzy and York.  Even though Harlem is attracted to Jazzy, she develops a relationship with York and for a while, things are going well until she discovers his connection with an old enemy and things begin to slowly spiral out of control.  It isn't until tragedy strikes that Harlem learns that in order to be in control of her destiny; she must deal with the past.  If I Ruled the World is not your typical urban drama, Joy has written a character that will touch your heart and have you thinking long after you read the last page.  You will laugh, you will cry, but you will also root for Harlem, as a girl has to do what a girl has to do! This is tale of drama, revenge, romance, and acceptance.    If you don't read any other book this year, you must read this one! Joy did an outstanding job! I give this book 5 stars. Reviewed by Shay C of PeoplewholoveGoodBooks <br /> <br />	2005-09-13
US	16644854	R3O7A1RNXB3H5A	0758212305	919348719	Love Uncovered	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Love Uncovered by Angie Daniels:An PeoplewholoveGoodBooks Review	Chenoa Campbell is a woman of the new millennium; she is single, ambitious, and career-driven.  As a detective with the Wilmington Police Department, Chenoa is good at her job.... as good as any man.  After her ex-partner is gunned down at the local mall, her boss teams with a new partner:  Zearl Sinclair.  Zearl is a friend of the family who is also a detective but who also doesn't think that women should be on the force, especially a woman like Chenoa.  After Chenoa goes undercover to find out who is behind the Cocktail Murders......whoever is behind the murders may also be responsible for the death of her ex-partner.  Of course, along the way, Chenoa and Zearl fight off their attraction to each other and find themselves falling in love.  The question then becomes can Zearl learn to leave his macho attitude behind and truly love and accept Chenoa as his equal during work hours and after-hours.  Love Uncovered is a romantic, fast-paced read that also has drama, suspense, and mystery as Chenoa is determined to find out the circumstances behind her former partner's death.  I give this book 4 stars.  Reviewed by Shay C of PeoplewholoveGoodBooks	2005-09-12
US	16644854	R10F1LZ4FLNHDX	0976600714	872019885	Dyme Hit List	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Dyme Hit List by Curtis Alcutt:An PeoplewholoveGoodBooks Review	Don't let the title of this book fool you, Dyme Hit List by Curtis Alcutt is a romantic story with a few drops of drama.  Rio Clark is a \\"player\\", afraid of falling in love, he goes from woman to woman creating his \\"Dyme Hit List\\".  Afraid to look like less of a man in the eyes of his Uncle Lee (the \\"ultimate\\" player)and father, that is until he meets Carmen Massey.  At first, Rio tries to run game on Carmen until he gets to know her and they develop a friendship.  After a nite of passion, Rio finds himself falling in love but denying it......too busy worrying about what his friends and Uncle Lee will say.  It isn't until a secret from Carmen's past is revealed and tragedy strikes that Rio truly begins to learn the meaning of unconditional love.  I was surprised at this book, the love story that develops between Carmen and Rio is sweet and you find yourself rooting for them to be together.  This book is a must-read, you will not be disappointed!! Curtis Alcutt, you did a great job!! I give this book 4 stars!! Reviewed by Shay C of PeoplewholoveGoodBooks	2005-09-09
US	16644854	R2NDWUQED5ZMGK	0976600730	234019598	Hustlers	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Hustlers by Ronald Quincy: An PeoplewholoveGoodBooks Review	Hustlers by Ronald Quincy is one of the best urban dramas that I have read this year! Popcorn has been living \\"legit\\" running his lawn-care business and living with his girl Peaches and her daughter in the projects.  His old friend Bay-Bay comes back into the picture and has \\"big\\" plans and wants to Popcorn to help take the game to the \\"highest\\" level.....the money is what draws Popcorn in and he brings his brother Silk in.  Silk trying to find his own way after having to share the streets with Choo-Choo is more than happy to join in.  For a while, things are good......the money is coming in....hot cars, and hot women.  Popcorn is busy running things behind the scenes and no one, not even Peaches knows what's going on.  When Popcorn is gone all hours of the nite and spending more time with his \\"best\\" friend, Yolanda, Peaches allows her insecurity to cloud her judgement and she makes decisions that will come back to haunt them later...........after Silk is murdered and Popcorn is shot, Popcorn  has to step up and prove himself before Choo-Choo tries to take over.  Hustlers is so full of twists and turns, that it will keep guessing until the end.  This book is a must-read!! This book has it all: drama, suspense, betrayal and some very hot, steamy sex.  I give this book 5 stars!! Reviewed by Shay C of PeoplewholoveGoodBooks	2005-09-09
US	16644854	R2U98X055565PG	1419609777	19803741	If Only In My Dreams	Books	4	1	1	N	N	If Only In My Dreams by R.Moreen Clarke:An PeoplewholoveGoodBooks Review	If Only In My Dreams by R. Moreen Clarke is one of those reads that will have you thinking long after you put it down.  After the death of her fiance, Olivia Cane has yet to date or find love again, so she decides to try Internet dating and meets Malcolm.  She feels that Malcolm is her \\"knight in shining armor\\" and quickly begins to fall for him despite her doubts and everyone's concerns.  They correspond through emails and soon begin to speak by phone but more and more questions begin to develop in Olivia's mind as Malcolm can only contact her and seems hesitate after she begins to want to meet in person.  Finally the day arrives when they agree to meet in person and after Olivia sees him, she not only feels betrayed by his appearance but also begins to question herself.  If true love is what she seeks, why does appearance matter?? Isn't what's on the inside what truly matters?? Deciding to follow her heart and swallow her doubts, she decides to give her relationship with Malcolm another try but little does she know that he is keeping secrets and hiding who he truly is.   <br /> <br />If Only In My Dreams will capture your attention from the first page as you get swept up in the ensuring romance between Olivia and Malcolm, it is a real and honest look at Internet dating as it asks the old-age question, \\"Do Looks Really Matter\\" when searching for your true love?? It shows how easy how it easy it is to fall in love with the \\"person\\" and not the \\"image\\". This is a wonderful story of romance, friendship, and intrigue.  Reviewed by Shay C of PeoplewholoveGoodBooks	2005-09-06
US	16644854	RYWO1IMRU2Q8I	0972800530	586490640	Hustlin' Backwards	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Hustlin Backwards by Mike Sanders: An PeoplewholoveGoodBooks Review	Hustlin Backwards by Mike Sanders is the story of Capone and his rise and fall after becoming one of the biggest dealers in Charlotte,NC.  Capone, June, and Vonzell start off as stick-up kids who score big after robbing a dealer from Connecticut.  After the dealer swears revenge but kills the wrong people and he himself winds up dead, Capone, June, and V quickly step up to the plate and take over his territory.  They quickly get caught up in the life of hot women, fast cars, and quick money but things begin to spiral out of control after June is arrested.  After June is convicted and sentenced to 36 years, he begins to lose everything.....his woman leaves him and he begins to talk and that sets off a chain of events that will change their lives forever as Capone and V have to leave everything behind and go on the run.  Hustlin Backwards is a fast-paced page-turner that will grab your attention.  It is a hot read with a mix of drama, betrayal, and friendship.  I enjoyed this book so much that I told my husband about it and he read it, and he NEVER reads anything.......I give this book 4 stars! Reviewed by Shay C of PeoplewholoveGoodBooks	2005-09-06
US	16644854	R1GQ91LUMQU6VS	0758210655	566678688	Friends With Benefits	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Friends with Benefits by Lawrence Ross: An PeoplewholoveGoodBooks Review	Friends with Benefits by Lawrence Ross is a romantic read with a few twists of drama.  Jason Richards is a rising attorney at the law firm of Ketchings and Martin.  Jason is focused on his career and the future.  After being dissed by a woman at a bar and landing a major bonus for a high-profile case, he decides it's time for a change.  His \\"friend\\" Steven introduces him to the \\"Titan\\" lifestyle.  A lifestyle that revolves around hot women, hot sex, hot cars, and hot clothes.  Jason is enjoying his new lifestyle until he finds himself falling in love with Carole, a former flame and Director of Mama's House, where he volunteers and offers legal advice.  He uses the Titan \\"Friends with Benefits\\" logic to reel her in.  Little does Jason know that Carole is keeping a secret of her own.  Jason quickly discovers the Titan lifestyle is not for him and decided to leave it behind but not before the situation goes out of control and his lifestyle becomes common knowledge and Carole finds out.   <br /> <br />Friends with Benefits starts off slow but quickly builds to a fast-paced, page-turning story that you will enjoy; however, I was a little disappointed with the ending but overall, the book is a great read. I give this book 4 stars.  Reviewed by Shay C of PeoplewholoveGoodBooks <br />	2005-08-24
US	16644854	RAW5N0W1PJML1	097280059X	478804701	Shakedown	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Shakedown by Nubian James: An PeoplewholoveGoodBooks Review	Shakedown by Nubian James is the story of Paris Hightower.  Paris meets and falls in love with Tyree Dickerson, little does she know that this will change her life in ways she never expected! Tyree's mother disapproves and does everything in her power to break them up.....including blackmail Paris.  When Paris was 7, her mother shot her father in self-defense and fled.....leaving her grandmother to raise Paris and her brother.  Tyree's mother uses that information to blackmail Paris into leaving him but little does Lyn Dickerson know that Ebony Hightower, now Barbara Prince has married supermodel Nubian Prince and is now rich and has her own plan of revenge.  Shakedown is full of twists and turns and is a great read! It has drama, suspense, romance, and revenge all in one.  Some of the characters could have been a little more original as fans of CBS Daytime will recogize several of the characters (Brook Logan, Conner Davis, Catherine Chancellor etc etc) but all in all, this book is a must-read! You will NOT be disappointed! I give this book 4 stars! Reviewed by Shay C of PeoplewholoveGoodBooks	2005-08-24
US	16644854	R2RIRBSY8GPYAL	0972800565	769302650	Hyped	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Hyped by Luke: An PeoplewholoveGoodBooks Review	Hyped by Luke is the story of Maurice LaSalle, he is a gifted musician on the verge of becoming the next \\"big\\" thing.  Like his best friend and bandmate Jamal Grover, he's living the life of a \\"player\\" until he meets Ebony Stanford.  Ebony still dealing with the hurt from a painful divorce is attracted to Maurice but afraid to believe that he could be the \\"one\\".  Eventually, they grow closer and fall in love and embark on a relationship only to have betrayal and secrets threaten to break them apart.  It isn't until tragedy strikes that they realize just how lucky they are to find each other and love.  Hyped is a steamy, romantic drama that grabs your attention from page one.  I give this book 4 stars!! Reviewed by Shay C of PeoplewholoveGoodBooks	2005-08-24
US	16644854	R2T1H01UJEKQPU	0976600722	338706284	Legit Baller	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Legit Baller by Jerry Blackshear: An PeoplewholoveGoodBooks Review	Legit Baller by Jerry Blackshear is the story of one man's struggle is stay legit despite old habits and the streets trying to pull him back in.    When we first meet Jay Bernard, he is on lockdown and while there Jay has lost his girl Kim, and the Feds have taken everything......his life as he knew it has changed.  While incarcerated, Jay's best friend since grade school Summer proves to be a true friend and they fall in love and prepare for life together once Jay gets out.....of course, there are obstacles but they find their way to each other, as Summer is the Bonnie to his Clyde.  After Jay is released earlier than expected, he is determined to be legit and start a new life with Summer.  For a while, things seem to go well but Kim, the woman who left when Jay needed her the most is determined to win him back and her boyfriend Paris, the man who took over when Jay got locked up begins to think of Jay as a rival and a confrontation between them sets off a chain of events that may once again land Jay back on lockdown.  Legit Ballers is a great urban drama, it is a page-turner from beginning to end. Check it out, you won't be disappointed!! I give this book 4 stars!! Reviewed by Shay C of PeoplewholoveGoodBooks	2005-08-24
US	16644854	R2221PJTBOPQLT	0312341970	692914811	Marry Your Baby Daddy	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Marry Your Baby Daddy by Maryann Reid: An PeoplewholoveGoodBooks Review	Marry Your Baby Daddy by Maryann Reid is the must-read book of the year! Sex and the Single Sister was good, Use Me or Lose Me was great, but Marry Your Baby Daddy is outstanding! It has something for everyone: drama, romance, betrayal, the bonds of family, and hot steamy sex! It is the story of 3 sisters: Giovanna, Keyah, and Fatima.   <br /> <br />Keyah, Fatima, and Giovanna each  share a complicated or strained relationship with their \\"baby daddy\\".  After the death of their beloved grandmother, they are shocked and surprised to learn that she has left them 3 million dollars to be shared equally among them but there is one little catch:  They have each marry the father of their children in 6 months or forfeit the money.  Givoanna is a successful lawyer who is content with her relationship with her daughter's father Douglas, but the closer they become, the more she learns that he is not all that he seems.  Fatima's relationship with her daughter's father Dune is rocky, up and down, and he goes back and forth between her and his \\"other\\" baby mama but after he overhears a late-night conversation, he seems to become a new man, or does he? Keyah has been engaged to Jag, her son's father for 5 years and wants to take the next step but he appears in no hurry and that moves Keyah to embark on a path of self-destruction that may end their relationship for good. Marry Your Baby Daddy is a fresh, funny look at love and relationships as these 3 women embark on a journey that may lead to wealth but the cost may be more than they are willing to pay as they learn what true love is really about.  This book is a page-turner from beginning to end and it will truly capture your attention! I give this book 5 stars! Reviewed by Shay C of PeoplewholoveGoodBooks <br />	2005-08-24
US	16644854	RTLY9W3GK9464	045121515X	588763201	Almost Doesn't Count	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Almost Doesn't Count by Electa Rome Parks: An PeoplewholoveGoodBooks Review	Electa Rome Parks has been a favorite of mine since reading \\"The Ties that Bind and Loose Ends\\".  Her latest release \\"Almost Doesn't Count\\" does not disappoint.  It grabs your attention from the first page, what I love about Ms. Parks's books is the way that she addresses issues that affect \\"real\\" people.  Issues that people otherwise don't like to talk about.   <br />Mercedes is a woman who knows what she wants and who she is.  But under that tough exterior is a woman with a painful secret.  After her mother has surgery, she returns home to take care of her......the mother with whom, she has a strained relationship and who she calls \\"Miss Betty\\", not Mama.  Back home to the place that she couldn't wait to get away from, the place that is full of bad and painful memories.  While at the store one day, she meets \\"Darius\\", the man who makes her break all rules, let down her defense, and and think about taking a chance on love until the day all of his secrets come falling out of the closet.  However, Mercedes learns that in order to prepare for the future, you must confront and let go of the past.   <br />Almost Doesn't Count is a riveting look at one woman's journey to escape her past and embrace the future and the love of a good man.  It will make you laugh, cry, and you find yourself rooting for Mercedes as she begins to find her way.  Ms. Parks has done it again! As this book will have you thinking LONG after you put it down.  I give it 5 stars! Reviewed by Shay C of PeoplewholoveGoodBooks <br />	2005-08-16
US	16644854	RJ8XSY8DB7ZOQ	0972800573	886249160	Twisted	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Twisted by Holland Jones: An PeoplewholoveGoodBooks Review	When the Author of this book, Holland Jones was coming  up with titles for this book, \\"Twisted\\" was the perfect one!! \\"Twisted\\" is full of twists and turns that will keep you guessing until the last page!! Nadine Rosebud is a woman with a plan, she will use anyone or anything to get what she wants, no matter who gets hurt in the process.  Wayne Gray is the father of Nadine's child and her ex, he has just returned home from doing 2 years in prison for a crime that he had nothing to do with, and if that wasn't bad enough, Nadine betrayed him and her best friend Asia by hooking up with Wayne's cousin Bobo.  And of course, Nadine being the woman that she is, leaves Bobo for Wayne who gets out right before Bobo is locked up.  Wayne decides to do the right thing for his daughter by hooking back up with Nadine much to the dismay of his sister Joy and Asia, who has become a very \\"close\\" friend.  Little does he know that Nadine has not only betrayed Bobo but she has also stolen his money which sets off a chain of events that could have deadly cosquences.  Twisted is an edge of the seat, suspense-filled, drama-filled, steamy urban drama where everyone seems to have their own \\"twisted\\" agenda.  I give this book 5 stars!! Reviewed by Shay C of PeoplewholoveGoodBooks.	2005-08-15
US	16644854	R1CB8MA6TXDXLI	189319616X	727044105	Bullet Proof Soul	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Bulletproof Soul by Michelle Buckley: An PeoplewholoveGoodBooks Review	Bulletproof Soul is the debut novel by Up and Coming Author Michelle Buckley, it is a story that all mothers, daughters, sisters, aunts, nieces, best friends etc etc should read.  Lacy Foxx is a reporter at the Metro Tribune and while her career may be successful, her personal life is in shambles.  She's broken up with her fianc Sebastian, lost their babies, and nearly lost her mind but despite everything, Lacy is determined to move on with her life until the day she meets Wynnton Trust at the local Youth Center after doing a feature on him for the paper.  Even though, things between them get off to a rocky start, they give in to their attraction until Lacy's baggage once again catches up with her and she pulls away from him.   <br /> <br />  <br /> <br />Eventually, they begin their relationship and Lacy once again learns the old-age lesson, if it's too good to be true, it usually is.  After Wynn is in a life or death situation, a BIG skeleton comes falling out of his closet and causes Lacy to question whether Wynn is truly the man she thought he was.   She winds up making a mistake that could cost her their relationship.  They break up to make up until an unexpected event shakes Lacy to the core and once again, she has to decide to either give up or start over. <br /> <br />  <br /> <br />Bulletproof Soul is a remarkable story about one woman's journey to recapture her spirit, and learn from her mistakes.  Lacy is the kind of the character that you will root for as no matter how many times life knocks her down, she gets right back up.  This book is a must-read! It will make you laugh, cry, just sit and shake your head and cheer as Lacy finds her \\"Bulletproof Soul\\".  I give this book 5 stars!! It was chosen as BOTM for July for our reading group.  Reviewed by Shay C of PeoplewholoveGoodBooks <br />	2005-08-01
US	16644854	RNZHRU0RDEI2F	0972800581	791345123	Still Crazy	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Still Crazy by Darrin Lowery: An PeoplewholoveGoodBooks Review	Still Crazy by Darrin Lowery is the story of Kevin Allen.  Kevin is a successful writer who is happily married to Tamara, Kevin under a deadline and suffering from writer's block decides to return home to Chicago for inspiration and ideas.  Kevin agrees to appear at a book-event for his sister's job and that is the night that starts the chain of events that will change his life forever.  Kevin runs into his ex Yolanda, who he broke up with because she had some serious issues and because she was \\"crazy\\" and he quickly learns that she still is!   Even though, his mind is telling him no, he allows himself to be seduced by Yolanda and her friend Kitty.  Yolanda has never stopped loving Kevin and is determined to be in his life, no matter who she has to hurt to make it happen.  While all this is going on, Tamara is dealing with issues of her own and is keeping a secret from Kevin.   <br /> <br />This book is off the hook! It is full of secrets, deceptions, betrayal, drama, suspense, and mystery.  It is one of the best books I have read this year; it grabs your attention and doesn't let go! I finished this book in ONE day! The ending leaves the door open for a sequel and I cannot wait to read it.  I give this book 5 stars! Reviewed by Shay C of PeoplewholoveGoodBooks <br />	2005-07-30
US	16644854	RPTWRG9LGPMI1	0972800522	429508219	Wild Thangz	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Wild Thangz by Winston Chapman: An PeoplewholoveGoodBooks Review	Wild Thangz by Winston Chapman is a page-turner from beginning to end! It is the story of Jazmyn, Trina, and Brea.  The 3 girls are best friends who attend Spelman College together.  Jazmyn wants to pursue her dreams of becoming a singer and plans to drop out of school to do it but risks creating drama in her family if she does so, at what cost she will pay to pursue her dream?  Trina is the smart one who plans to finish college until an unexpected family drama causes her to rethink her plans and Brea is what you would call \\"Ghetto- Fabulous\\", she's on the verge of losing her scholarship due to lack of funding and is about to leave school.  She decides to use her \\"female charms\\" to get what she wants and it leads to major drama with unexpected consequences and repercussions as she puts her life and the lives of her friends in danger.   <br /> <br />Wild Thangz has it all:  Drama, Suspense, Friendship, and Betrayal. The ending will leave you speechless and full of questions, I hope there is a sequel to this book coming out and soon!! This book is HOT!! It is one of the best urban dramas that I have read in a long time; I give it 5 stars!! Reviewed by Shay C of PeoplewholoveGoodBooks. <br />	2005-07-30
US	16644854	R2Q13AHUP86T6D	0972800557	560641879	Slick	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Slick by Brenda Hampton: An PeoplewholoveGoodBooks Review	\\"Slick\\" by Brenda Hampton is one of those stories that make you go hmmmm.  It will have you sitting and shaking your head long after you put it down.   Dana and Sylvia have been friends since childhood and know everything about each other as well as their secrets.  Sylvia works for Dana's husband Jonathan and while she loves her job, she's becoming more and more uncomfortable facing him knowing that Dana is sleeping with one of their co-workers and has been for the last 3 years.  Not only is Sylvia uncomfortable with keeping Dana's secret, it's starting to put a wedge in their friendship as she finds herself becoming more and more attracted to Dana's husband and growing apart from Dana.      <br /> <br /> Soon, Jonathan begins to put the pieces together and finds out about Dana's affair and all hell breaks loose.  He finds comfort with Sylvia and that sets off a chain of events that ultimately results in a decision that will change their lives forever.  \\"Slick\\" is a story that has something for everyone:  love, betrayal, friendship, and drama.  Once I started reading this book, I could not put it down until the last page. I truly enjoyed reading this book!!!  It is a must-read!! I give this book 5 stars!! Reviewed by Shay C of PeoplewholoveGoodBooks. <br />	2005-07-27
US	16644854	R34Q1A7BL96AQD	0976600706	418384269	Busted	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Busted by Rhonda Swan: An PeoplewholoveGoodBooks Review	Busted by Rhonda Swan is a fast-paced book that grabs your attention from beginning to end.  It is the story of 3 women:  Arianna, Nicole, and Janelle.  They have been looking for love in all the wrong places until each of them decides to place a profile on a popular Internet dating service.  And they each meet the man of their dreams or so they think.  They meet and become friends after finding out that they have been dating the same man:  Chauncey Cockfield, the man that has been using and lying to them all. <br /> <br />They form a bond and lean on each other after discovering Chauncey's betrayal.  Each day, a new secret is revealed and a new woman comes forward.  Arianna is bent on revenge and together with Brenda, another woman that Chauncey has used and deceived, they hatch what they think is the ultimate plan for revenge; only to for it to have major consequences and repercussions.  They then find themselves in for the fight of their lives.    Busted is a story that will you thinking long after you put it down, it contains all the elements of a great story:  romance, drama, betrayal, suspense, and revenge.  It is true what they say: Hell Hath No Fury for a Woman Scorned, all you so-called playas need to read this book and maybe it will make you think twice before you are \\"Busted\\".  It is a must-read!! I give this book 5 stars!!! Reviewed by Shay C of PeoplewholoveGoodBooks <br />	2005-07-26
US	16644854	R2Y5Z4RUA8098F	0758207271	461291033	Nothing Has Ever Felt Like This	Books	4	48	49	N	N	Nothing Has Ever Felt Like This:An PeoplewholoveGoodBooks Review	Nothing Has Ever Felt Like This by Mary B Morrison is the continuation of the characters we have grown to know and love that were introduced in Soul Mates Dissipate, Never Again Once More, He's Just a Friend, and Somebody's Gotta Be on Top.  Mary B Morrison has done it again!!  <br /> <br />Nothing Has Ever Felt Like This continues the story of Darius Jones.  Darius has lost everything, and could possibly be the father of 3 children.  In the midst of it all, he has met Fancy Taylor.  Both Darius and Fancy have used sex to gain power and money but they have both learned the age-old lesson that: money truly doesn't buy happiness.  Darius has to learn to be a man and stand on his own 2 feet and stop expecting things to be handed to him, Fancy decides to make changes in her life and make it on her own.   They learn to deal with their pain and eventually find their way to each other.  In the meantime, Jada, Darius's mother is forced to deal with an unexpected betrayal from her soul mate and husband Wellington.  An old enemy surfaces and trouble follows.  Nothing Has Ever Felt Like This is a hot, steamy read in the typical Mary B Morrison fashion, it is a page-turner from beginning to end.  I have been fan since Soul Mates Dissipate and have read each book in order and can't wait until the next one comes out! I give this book 4 stars! Reviewed by Shay C of PeoplewholoveGoodBooks <br />	2005-07-19
US	16644854	RP394626D261V	0758210698	168712309	Within The Shadows	Books	5	1	1	N	N	WIthin the Shadows: An PeoplewholoveGoodBooks Review	Within the Shadows by Brandon Massey is a heart stopping, edge of the seat thriller! It is a must-read! It is the story of Andrew Wilson.  Andrew is a successful writer who seems to have it all.  Everything but a special woman to share it all with.  Until that faithful day when he meets Lalamika Woods.  Mika appears to be the total package:  beauty, brains, and sophistication.  Of course, she appears too good to be true, and soon Andrew quickly learns Mika is NOT what she appears to be, but when strange and usual things begin to happen, he quickly tries to slow things down and of course, Mika has different ideas and plans.  She feels Andrew is her soul-mate and will stop at NOTHING to have him in her life forever; she refuses to let anything or anyone stand in her way.  Andrew begins to realize he is in for the fight of his life and sanity.  Within the Shadows is a fast-paced, suspense-filled book that you will NOT be able to put down.  Even if you are not a fan of horror fiction, you will truly enjoy this book.  It is one of the best books I have read this year, I give this book 5 stars!! Reviewed by Shay C of PeoplewholoveGoodBooks	2005-07-17
US	16644854	R13NFQQOG9ZHAY	0345476832	135731730	The Glamorous Life: A Novel	Books	5	2	3	N	N	The Glamorous Life By Nikki Turner:An PeoplewholoveGoodBooks Review	I have been a fan of Nikki Turner since \\"The Hustler's Wife and Project Chick\\" and her current release \\"The Glamorous Life\\" does NOT disappoint!! It's the story of Bambi Ferguson, she has been hurt and used so many times that she decides to take the advice of her mother and flip the game on would-be suitors and just be about her money. When we first meet Bambi, she is about to become engaged to Reggie, the man she thinks is the love of her life until she finds out that he is hiding a deep and dark secret that leads to an unexpected and unthinkable betrayal and leaves her heartbroken and bitter. She then throws herself into her career and creates a successful party planning business. Bambi vows to never give her heart away again until she meets Lynx. Lynx is the one who breaks down her walls and gets Bambi to love again, only to disappear without a trace leaving Bambi once again heartbroken and bitter. They do find their way back to each other but not without obstacles. There are so many twists and turns in this book that will have you guessing until the very last page. Nikki Turner has done it again!! The Glamorous Life is a fast-paced book that holds your attention from the first page to the last one. I found myself putting it down because I didn't want it to end; the ending is satisfying yet leaves you hoping there will be a sequel. I give this book 5 stars, it is one of the best books I have read this year!!! Reviewed by Shay C of PeoplewholoveGoodBooks	2005-07-13
US	16644854	R2SI7LOM48HMUD	1594537240	117171703	Destiny	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Destiny by Tangelika V. Bolen: An PeoplewholoveGoodBooks Review	Destiny by Tangelika V. Bolen is page-turner from beginning to end; it is a steamy novel that will have you questioning your own \\"destiny\\".  It is the story of Teresa Tucker, a woman looking for love in all the wrong places, She gets caught up in the world of fast money and life in the fast lane. Teresa gets involved in the life of exotic dancing and it turns her life upside down.  Despite the way her life is going, Teresa dreams of marrying Delvin, her on-again, off-again boyfriend and settling down.  However, all they do is cheat and play mind games and the relationship is more of one that is convenient and comfortable.   Through her job as an exotic dancer, Teresa gets caught up with the wrong people and witnesses what turns out to be the murder of a dear friend.   After bad things continue to happen to her and the ones around her, she returns home to her mother, afraid and running for her life.   While at home, Teresa meets Calvin; the man who seems to love her despite her faults and despite her lifestyle; however, when she finds out that someone has a spell on her, she becomes determined to find who and why.    Destiny is a book that has something for everyone:  suspense, drama, mystery, and romance.  It will make you laugh, cry, and keep you on the edge of your seat.  It will keep you guessing until the ending when the surprising and unexpected truth is revealed.   I give this book 4 stars, it is a must-read! Reviewed by Shay C of PeoplewholoveGoodBooks	2005-07-13
US	16644854	R3KWT2CHKB5VD2	0758210531	508052116	Caught In The Mix	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Caught in the Mix: An PeoplewholoveGoodBooks Review	Caught in the Mix is the debut novel by Up and Coming Author Candice Dow.  It is the story of Clark and Devin.  When Clark and Devin meet in college, it is love at first love.  Despite their different backgrounds, they are both tired of the \\"games\\" and find what they are looking for in each other.  While things go well in the beginning, their relationship slowly begins to fall apart despite their best efforts to keep it together.  First Devin has to move to New York to continue his studies and wants Clark to move with him, but she of course, has graduated and has begun her career and decides to stay at home.  Then, the secrets that Devin has been keeping from Clark begin to come out... that he has kept their relationship a secret from his very judgmental parents, and another one that shocks her to the core.  Then comes the night that changes the way she looks at Devin and the relationship.  Despite the obstacles and all that has happened, the love is still strong and still there until Devin does the ultimate betrayal with Jennifer, his study partner and when an unexpected death shakes Clark, it sets off a chain of events that alters their relationship forever.  The ending leaves you satisfied but could there be a sequel in the works?? I hope so as this was a story that I didn't want to end!!      Caught in the Mix is a page-turner from beginning to end that is full of secrets, drama, betrayals, and love.  It is a  must-read!! I give this book 4 stars! Reviewed by Shay C of PeoplewholoveGoodBooks	2005-07-05
US	16644854	R1YBN89VLU0EJ9	0976727307	669173787	Intimate Chaos	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Intimate Chaos: An PeoplewholoveGoodBooks Review	Intimate Chaos by Cheril N Clarke is the story of Sadira and Jessie.  It is an intimate look at the beginning, the \\"actual\\" relationship, and the ending.  From the moment Sadira sees Jessie on the train, she feels she has met her soul mate.  Jessie of course, has been hurt before and comes with a LOT of emotional baggage.  Despite their rocky beginning, Sadira can't walk away.  Finally, Jessie admits how she feels and they begin their torrid relationship.  Sadira moves with Jessie to Miami and things go from bad to worse.  There is a lot of jealousy and insecurity in the relationship.  It all leads up to a situation that causes Sadira to lose her job and almost her relationship with Jessie until she is in a terrible car accident.  The accident serves as a wake-up call and brings them back together until Kenya walks into the picture.  Sadira is attracted to Kenya but fights out of her love for Jessie, however; Kenya has a different plan.  In the end, Jessie and Sadira's relationship is torn apart by an unthinkable and unexpected betrayal.  Cheril Clarke has written a story that pulls you in from the beginning and has you thinking long after you finish the last page.  It is an \\"intimate\\", honest, and refreshing looking at the stages that relationships go through, from the beginning, of when love is new to the heartbreaking breakdown.  It is a wonderful blend of romance, drama, and betrayal with a twist that catches you completely off-guard.  I give this book 4 stars!!! Reviewed by Shay C of PeoplewholoveGoodBooks <br /> <br />	2005-07-05
US	16644854	RNIK7Y9POK3MB	0758209797	119804358	Down For Whatever	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Down for Whatever:An PeoplewholoveGoodBooks Review	Down for Whatever is the debut novel written by Fredrick Smith. It is a fresh, honest look at love and romance from the gay male's point of view.  It is the story of four different and diverse friends in L.A., Keith, Marco Antonio, Tommy, and Rafael. <br /> <br />Keith is an almost thirty-something educated man with self-esteem and weight issues who is looking for love and keeps finding it in all the wrong places until he meets Cesar.  Cesar appears to be the one until he does the ultimate betrayal,   Tommie is the former lead singer of the once popular R&B group Renaissance Phoenix, and is happily involved with a much younger college man.  However, he can't believe that someone like Tyrell wants to be with him and that doubt causes him to make a foolish mistake that may cost him everything.  Marco Antonio is happy in his relationship with Alex, an up and coming actor until he drops the bomb that he has married an up and coming Colombia singer to help his career and for publicity reasons.  Last but not least, Rafael.  Rafael is young, hot, and looking for Mr. Right Now instead of Mr. Right.  He has done so many people wrong that he has lost count until karma comes back in a way, he is totally unprepared for.  Down for Whatever is a fast-paced entertaining read.  It is my kind of story; it's the perfect blend of romance and drama.  It will make you laugh, cry, or just sit and shake your head.   It will have you thinking long after you put it down.  The men deal with issues that we all do, but in the end, all they want is the same as everyone else, a love to call their own.  I give this book 4 stars!! Reviewed by Shay C of PeoplewholoveGoodBooks <br />	2005-07-05
US	16644854	RAZZHUGVEBX7G	0971817413	734283743	Exclusive: A Tisha Ariel Nikkole Novel #1	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Exclusive by Yasmin Shiraz:An PeoplewholoveGoodBooksReview	Exclusive by Yasmin Shiraz is a page-turner from beginning to end!! Once you start reading this book, you will NOT be able to put it down.  It is the story of Tisha and Shout.  Tisha is a journalist who falls in love with Shout and after a rocky start, they embark on a relationship.......little do they know that  music executive Jordan has her eye on Shout and does everything in her power to tear them apart.  Yasmin Shiraz has written a novel that is a blend of romance and drama, it is the perfect summer read!! Can NOT wait for the sequel to come out!! I give this book 5 stars, it is a must-read!!!!!!!  Reviewed by Shay C of PeoplewholoveGoodBooks.	2005-05-23
US	16644854	R3SLE8M38XE66K	0758207379	816068466	The People Next Door	Books	4	4	4	N	N	The People Next Door:An PeoplewholoveGoodBooks Review	The People Next Door by Bettye Griffin is a very enjoyable, entertaining read that will have you thinking long after you put it down.  It is the story of The Canfields and the Bentancourts.  Lisa and Darrell Canfield are looking to build their dream home and find the perfect lot in Jacksonville.  Little does Lisa know that her ex-husband Brad and his wife Suzanne will end up buying the house next door.  Of course, the wives don't get along because Lisa feels Suzanne is the reason for the break-up of her marriage to Brad.  Suzanne, on the other hand resents Lisa because she feels Lisa is everything she is not: well-bred and educated.  Suzanne grew up poor and considers herself lucky to be married to Brad, a very successful radiologist.  The guys begin to build a friendship much to the surprise and dismay of the wives and of course, fireworks begin to fly because Suzanne is also resentful of the fact that Brad and Lisa share a daughter.  Despite the fact that Lisa and Darrell, as well as Brad and Suzanne are happy and in love with each other, Lisa resents that fact Suzanne is living the life that she feels SHE should be living and it begins to cause problems with Lisa and Darrell.  Of course, you always have the neighbors that try to keep up with everyone and put on appearances like they have more than what they have.....Ernie and Flo Hickman. Despite everything, they all learn to get along and to focus on the more important things in life: family.   The People Next Door is not only a very entertaining  blend of drama and comedy but it also deals with family issues and makes you aware of how things are in dealing with blended families.  I give this book 4 stars!!!! Reviewed by Shay C of PeoplewholoveGoodBooks	2005-05-05
US	16644854	R3DA6R07KWGYEK	0971237042	338168484	Mixed Messages	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Mixed Messages by LaTonya Williams: A Must-Read!!	Mixed Messages is the debut novel by Up and Coming Author, LaTonya Williams.  It is the story of 2 best friends, Mona and Kailah.  Mona appears to have it all but underneath, she has issues that come to surface after an unexpected event shakes her life.  Kailah is from the school of hard knocks, life has dealt her blow after blow......she almost loses her friendship with Mona after allowing her jealousy to  cause her to make a bad decision.  This book is the perfect blend of drama, sex, romance and friendship.  It will make you laugh, and cry.  I give this book 5 stars, it was picked as Book of the Month for our book club.  Check it out, you won't be disappointed!!  Reviewed by Shay C of PeoplewholoveGoodBooks	2005-04-20
US	16644854	R6BR3A1CD5DZI	0758209142	736831596	What's Real	Books	4	3	4	N	N	What's Real by DaaimahSPoole:A PeoplewholoveGoodBooks Review	I have been a fan of Daaimah S Poole since I read \\"Yo-Yo Love\\" and \\"Got a Man\\", her latest release \\"What's Real\\" does not disappoint.  This is the story of 3 friends: Janelle, Natalie, and Tanya.   The girls decide to take a trip to Miami for some much needed rest and relaxation.  Natalie is a stay-at-home mom who feels overwhelmed and unappreciated.  When she sneaks off to be with her friends, it sets off a chain of events that will forever change her life.  Janelle works as an assistant manager at a local department store, she feels overworked and underpaid.  Her family has moved into her one bedroom apartment and soon she feels overcrowded.  In Miami, she meets the man of her dreams and leaves everything behind to be with him but she quickly learns that it's not all it seems.  Tanya, a high-school dropout with 2 children living with her grandmother, feels abandoned by her mother and after the love of her life was killed, she gave up on love.    She's just looking for a good time and a man with deep pockets.  After an unexpected person comes back into her life, she realizes she must either make changes in her life or continue on the path to self-destruction.  The trip to Miami changes their lives in ways that they never imagined.  What's Real is an entertaining, fast-paced read with some unexpected twists.  I give this book 4 stars.  Reviewed by Shay C of PeoplewholoveGoodBooks	2005-04-19
US	16644854	R3FU2B3YX6CC32	0758207417	601381303	When It Rains	Books	4	7	7	N	N	When It RainsbyAngieDaniels:An PeoplewholoveGoodBooks Review	When It Rains by Angie Daniels is the story of Honey and Jay.  Honey is hiding painful secrets from her past and from Jay, the man she falls in love with.  Jay, unable to understand why Honey keeps pushing him away, has a an one-nite stand with Kendra....a woman from his past.  A woman who of course, winds up pregnant with his child and Kendra is determined to marry Jay and raise their child.  She gives a new meaning to the phrase \\"By Any Means Necessary\\"!! What I enjoyed most about this book was the romance that unfolds between Honey and Jay, once she opens up to him and tells him ONE of her secrets (Yes, there is another one), he pulls out all the stops to reassure her of his love and of course, Kendra puts a end to it.  There are some twists and turns, and of course, plenty of drama.  This book is a blend of mystery, suspense, self-discovery and romance that makes for a very satsifying story.  I give this book 4 stars! Reviewed by Shay C of PeoplewholoveGoodBooks.	2005-03-12
US	16644854	RDJ9OFSVOYONQ	0758210752	269045944	On the Up and Up: A Survival Guide for Women Living with Men on the Down Low	Books	3	7	10	N	N	On the Up&Up:An PeoplewholoveGoodBooks Review	On the Up and Up by Brenda Stone Browder is the response to the book \\"On The Downlow by JL King\\", Ms. Browder is the ex-wife of JL King and this is her story, her side of events.  She talks about the DL signs and the health risks that women should be aware of if found in that situation.  What I liked most about this book, is that she explains to those found in the same situation, is that it's NOT your fault.  I think if Black America were more accepting of those who are \\"different\\", there may not be men on the \\"down-low\\".  This is a story that needs to be told and deserves to be heard.  Reviewed by Shay C of PeoplewholoveGoodBooks	2005-03-12
US	16644854	R2RALKBQM7ZBKO	0758208936	537732654	A Landlord's Tale	Books	4	6	7	N	N	A Landlord's Tale : A PeoplewholoveGoodBooks Review	A Landlord's Tale by Gammy L. Singer is a book that captures your attention from beginning to end.  Amos Brown has just inherited two brownstones in Harlem from a father that he never knew.  It seems that if it weren't for bad luck, Amos would have no luck at all.  He's not into drugs but his habit is gambling, his wife has just left him and he owes Harry, the West Indian drug lord big money.  But after Amos moves in, the tenants become like family and their problems become his.  But of course, he has skeletons in the closet: literally.  His mother's body is found in the building across the street and that opens another set of wounds and brings many unanswered questions.   The story captures your attention in that you get caught in the mystery of what happened to Amos's mother: what happened? Did his father do it? , You get caught up in the budding romance between Amos and Catherine, a woman who happens to be Harry's niece, and now of course, Harry is trying to pull him in the business.  And you get caught up in the mystery of Zeke, the mysterious old man who used to be his father's best friend but seems to have it in for Amos.   It all comes together in a story that you will truly enjoy.  I give this book 4 stars. Reviewed by Shay C of PeoplewholoveGoodBooks   <br /> <br /> <br />  <br /> <br />	2005-02-17
US	16644854	R2QOHIZY6I2EEQ	0974943924	690483910	Purposely Purple	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Purposely Purple: An PeoplewhoLoveGoodBooks Review	<br />Purposely Purple is the debut novel written by Up and Coming Author, Tanisha \\"LAS\\" Chisam.  It is the story of Vyolet Shelby.  Vyolet is as unique and different as the spelling of her name.  She is the woman that many wish they could be:  confident, beautiful, and not afraid nor ashamed to be secure in her sexual needs.  She knows what she wants and who she is.  But there is someone out to destroy Vyolet, not because of jealousy; but because they simply can't have her. While this is going on, we meet an assortment of characters: Her room-mate Alexis, who is a DIVA in every sense of the word, until an encounter with a stranger on the train sets her on the path of true love.  There's Sierra, the pregnant best friend, Jordan, the male best friend who proves that men and women can be just only be friends, Niko, the man who loves Vyolet but his religion and sister get in the way and he tries to settle for just friendship, Cisco, the man who loves Alexis but when his line of work puts her in danger and makes her see him for who he truly is, it ultimately ends their relationship.  There's Zaire and Jasmine, Vyolet's sisters who are hiding painful secrets of their own.  Brandi, the women blessed with 2-year old Mychal but she refuses to accept responsibility, grow up, and be the parent her son needs and when tragedy strikes, it will change her life forever.  And lastly, there's Maxine, the woman with serious issues and who Vyolet discovers is truly not her friend.  Purposely Purple not only tells the story of Vyolet but you learn all about the characters and how their lives interact with hers.  I finished this book in a day and a half because once you begin reading it; it grabs your attention and doesn't let go.  It does have a slow start but it builds to the perfect blend of drama, sex, suspense, and betrayal.  It does leave many unanswered questions at the end (could there be a sequel in the works??) but for the most part, it does make you think.  What is your purpose in your life? \\"LAS\\" has done a wonderful job in her first debut novel.  Read it, you won't be disappointed! Are you Purposely Purple??  I give this book 4 stars!! <br /> <br />Reviewed by Shay C <br />PeoplewholoveGoodBooks <br />	2005-02-06
US	16644854	R2Y1C5ADJ2IRVP	0758208219	758903885	Illegal Affairs	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Illegal Affairs: A PeoplewholoveGoodBooks Review	<br />Illegal Affairs is the story of Callie, Raven, Omar and Keith.  They are all students at Monroe Law School and they develop a friendship.  But of course, they all have secrets and a story to tell.  Callie Stephens is the girl who seems to have it all but the she is dealing with her father's death, Raven Holloway is the girl who has got \\"it\\" and the envy of all but she is not what she seems, Omar Faxton is the former football player turned law student but he is a full-time player who uses women to feed his greed until his unexpected romance with Callie seems to turn him around or does it?? Keith Dawson is the one who is trying to turn his life around after a mistake that cost him his wife and son.  Callie and Raven quickly develop a friendship but Raven is the friend that Callie thinks she is, Omar and Keith develop a bond as well until Omar makes a play (and gets) for the woman Keith is interested in: Callie   <br /> <br />And of course, there is Brett Milstead, the white student who is for once the minority and it's a whole new world, he finds himself falling for his black classmate and the results are life changing.  Illegal Affairs is full of drama, romance, and will keep your attention until the very end but the ending is very unexpected and leaves a lot of unanswered questions, I hope there will be a sequel to this one!! I give this book 3  stars! <br /> <br />Reviewed by Shay C <br />PeoplewholoveGoodBooks <br />	2005-02-03
US	16644854	R2QWY3OOANEM7C	045121322X	187531062	Loose Ends	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Loose Ends: An PeoplewholoveGoodBooks Review	This story picks up where \\"The Ties that Bind\\" leaves off.  It is now 5 years later and Mia has divorced Brice and married Christian.  They have a daughter together and appear to be happy.  Mia is still haunted by her past with Brice.  Brice has also remarried..... To a woman who looks exactly like Mia! While Brice and Christian appear to be happy, they both miss the close friendship that they used to share.  Brice contacts Christian one day out of the blue and wants them all to meet.  At first Mia is against it but she gives it and it changes their lives forever.  Even though she once and still fears Brice, old feelings resurface and it leads to a betrayal that will shake them all.  This book is a must-read!! Ms. Parks has done an excellent job!! I give it 5 stars!!! <br />Reviewed By Shay C <br />PeoplewholoveGoodBooks <br /> <br />	2004-12-15
US	16644854	R1E2B1RWBB1FEI	0451213211	419199683	The Ties That Bind	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The Ties That Bind: An PeoplewholoveGoodBooks Review	This was one of the best books that I have read this year, (along with the sequel \\"Loose Ends\\").  It's the story of Brice, Mia, and Christian.  Mia meets and falls in love with Brice, they marry.  Christian and Brice are life-long friends that are more like brothers.  As Mia settles into her marriage with Brice, his \\"true colors\\" begin to show and having no else to turn to, Mia begins to turn to Christian.  Meanwhile, after being asked to watch over Mia while Brice is away, Christian falls in love with her.   Their friendship comes to an end and Mia's marriage with Brice comes to an explosive end! This book is a must-read! I give it 5 stars! <br />Reviewed by Shay C <br />PeoplewholoveGoodBooks <br /> <br />	2004-12-15
US	16644854	RS2F1MKH03YOY	1591135427	519625019	A Man Like Richard	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Man Like Richard: A PeoplewholoveGoodBooks Review	<br />A Man Like Richard by Up and Coming Author Erroline is an excellent read.  It grabs your attention and doesn't let go! It is the story of Richard, Basics, Maxine, Troy, and Marcus.   <br />As faithful as they come, Richard takes a chance on a strictly Platonic friendship with Basics, a beautiful care-free woman he happens to meet while at a family reunion with his brother.  Even though he knows all is not right with his wife Maxine, who is a very jealous and mentally ill woman.  <br /> <br />Richard soon gets careless and it sets Maxine off in a way that will change both of their lives forever!! Then, there is the story of Troy and Marcus, who discover each other after being with the wrong people and being afraid to take another chance at love.   <br /> <br /> <br />There aren't many books that deal with mental illness in the African-American community, Erroline does a wonderful job in that while you want to root for Richard and Basics, you can't help but feel sorry for Maxine and her struggle, that is until she goes too far.  It was also nice to read of a man who loves his wife unconditionally and doesn't use her illness as a reason to \\"be out there\\" but there are some twists in this book that are sure to have you thinking long after you put it down. This book is a must-read!! I give this book 5 stars!!! <br /> <br />Reviewed by Shay C  <br />PeoplewholoveGoodBooks <br />	2004-12-14
US	16644854	R3C658DJOZ8OW3	0758206526	229963085	If You Walked In My Shoes	Books	3	2	3	N	N	If You Walked in My Shoes: A PeoplewholoveGoodBooks Review	This is the riveting story of how keeping secrets can come back to haunt you.  Coreen Holmes Treadwell for all appearances has a successful career, loving marriage and a wonderful relationship with her stepchildren.  But her life hasn't always been so \\"perfect\\", as a young girl she was raped and wound up pregnant.  Coreen is hiding a painful secret.  A secret named Frieda Davis.  Frieda Davis is the daughter that Coreen never knew.  As a child, Frieda suffered years of abuse from her stepfather, which has made her bitter and determined to find her birth mother, to make her suffer as she has.   She puts together a plan of vengeance that will ultimately change their lives forever.  This book is one that stays with you long after you put it down.  Gwynne Forster has written a story that will make you think and touch your heart.  I give this book 3 stars! <br />Reviewed by Shay C  <br />PeoplewholoveGoodBooks	2004-12-08
US	16644854	R147ZR5TT72ASD	0758207158	744698260	The Preacher's Son	Books	5	11	12	N	N	PeoplewholoveGoodBooks Review for The Preacher's Son	Reviewed By: Shay C <br /> <br />PeoplewholoveGoodBooks <br /> <br />  <br /> <br />  <br /> <br />  <br /> <br />Carl Weber has done it again!! This book is a page-turner from beginning to end!  You will not be able to put this one down! \\"The Preacher's Son\\" is about the Wilson family.  TK Wilson is pastor of the largest African-American church in Queens.  He decides to run for borough president using \\"family values\\" as his platform and that's when the walls start crashing down!! <br /> <br />  <br /> <br />His son, Dante is being groomed to follow in his father's footsteps but dreams of being a lawyer and is afraid to speak up.  His troubles begin when his obsessed ex moves back to town and he meets Tanisha.  A woman he falls in love with that has major drama of her own.  His daughter \\"Donna\\" is in search of her mother's love and approval.  She falls for the wrong man and finds herself in over her head.  His wife \\"Charlene\\" is so caught up in her political aspirations for her husband that she has forgotten the meaning of \\"unconditional love\\" and has become judgmental and overbearing. <br /> <br />  <br /> <br />Secrets will be revealed but in the end, they all learn family is truly all that matters. <br /> <br />  <br /> <br />I give this book 5 stars!! It is a must-read!!!!! <br /> <br />	2004-12-03
