US	16829939	R12O6LX1AX0C5X	0802139590	179693822	Gould's Book of Fish	Books	5	25	25	N	Y	What The Hell Was That...	...was my reaction at the end of many pages amongst the first 50-60 - and that was after more than one reread of various sentences and paragraphs.  I retreated to Amazon's book reviews to see if there was just cause that I should stay the course.  Armed with an overview, I tried it again.<br /><br />I'm used to straight-forward non-fiction.  This book has lots of things going for it, but clarity is not one of them, especially at the beginning.  The earthy dialogue and Mark Twain-style truisms kept me going.  Eventually, I got used to Flanagan's style and could skip most of the rereads - I came to appreciate the beauty of his sentences, didn't try to go fast, and got caught up in the story.<br /><br />The one-liners - \\"When (dirty word that starts with sh) is discovered to be valuable, poor people will be born without arseholes\\" - and such, appear on at least every other page, and lengthier discourses on the human condition punctuate every surreal idiotic adventure.  Each ridiculous character is caricaturized and Flanagan produces a truly absurd cast.<br /><br />Most of the book is monologue from the main character, who \\"never pretended to be other than where I was on the ladder - at the bottom.  Competition wasn't so fierce, my manner was not so threatening, & a few holes in the market opened up for me...opportunity for me to mollynog with some of the ladies - fine or less fine, I was never that fussed - and in the main it was fine.  Did I say tedious?  Well, yes, that too, but it had the virtue of rhythm & the pleasure of certainty.\\"<br /><br />Anyway, Gould (a name he steals) is orphaned in England at an early age.  He still manages enough education to fake a knowledge of literature and philosophy - or at least enough to do his chosen profession of con-man, counterfeiter, rabble-rouser, artist, womanizer, adventurer, and sot.  Gould flim-flams his way across England, America, and Australia, never far ahead of a jail cell.  Double crossed by one of his buddies, heis arrested on a trumped up charge and sent to a notorious penitentiary on Sarah Island in Tasmania.  To avoid hard labor, he manipulates his way into a job painting fish for the resident surgeon - when he is not seeking enlightenment with Twopenny Sal behind the pigsty.<br /><br />Numerous escapes and adventures occur that scatter enough corpses to satisfy the most bloodthirsty reader.  A story line begins to take shape involving a fabricated historical account of the prison.  Gould comes to believe Sarah Island's only true legacy  will be from words he is able to scribble between drawings in his book of fish.  The fishes he originally painted out of utility begin to acquire a mystical significance.  At the end of each escapade, Gould treats us to a moral lesson he somehow divines from one of his fish:<br /><br />\\"The idea of the past is as useless as the idea of the future.  Both could be invoked by anybody about anything.  There is never any more beauty than there is now.  There is no more sorrow or wonder than there is now, nor perfection, nor any more evil nor any more good than there is now.  I have lived a life of meaninglessness for this one moment of meaning & these thing which I now know, & the knowing of them will flee my mind & heart as abruptly as they have entered.\\"<br /><br />Unbelievably, minor and major characters reappear, and Flanagan weaves the diverse, schizophrenic parts of his story into a seamless conclusion, only to rip it back apart on the last page.  I am now about half-way through my second reading of this fascinating book.	2005-10-09
US	16829939	R8IYI0KHUPC4	1558607838	730693897	Blondie24: Playing at the Edge of AI (The Morgan Kaufmann Series in Artificial Intelligence)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Computer Program Plays Checkers On Internet	Checkersjock logged in for his daily internet game of checkers and saw a new player.  \\"Hmmm,\\" he thought, \\"Blondie24 (yrs old), described as a grad student in math who is athletic...yea, I'd like to play her.\\"    Blondie enticed many players.  Unbeknownst to them, Blondie was a computer program administered live by the author of this book, David Fogel, and his crew.  They played internet checkers for over a year, letting Blondie learn by doing.  Unlike \\"Big Blue\\" for chess which processed massive amounts of information fed into it by programmers, Blondie was programmed with 3 layers of parallel circuitry and feedback loops, mimicking the human brain.  Through trial and error, Blondie taught herself how to play checkers.    As Blondie progressed up the ladder to compete with the best players, Fogel & crew learned how to flirt, reject dates and deal with trash talk online, tweaking the software during downtime.  They kept meticulous records and followed rigorous rules so as to satisfy the demands of the scientific method.    For anyone interested in AI, this is your book.  For those just interested in a good story, skip the programming & neuroscience shoptalk.  This is a dynamic and enchanting memoir appropriate for both AI experts and the general public.  Recommended.	2005-09-29
US	16829939	R26I4RTQQ1JMRR	0060675381	129713446	Here I Stand: My Struggle for a Christianity of Integrity, Love, and Equality	Books	5	13	15	N	N	A Man Who Takes Charge	Former Bishop Spong doesn't believe in the Bible as the inspired word of God.  He doesn't believe Jesus was born of a virgin, died in atonement for sin, or was physically resurrected from the dead.  He doesn't believe in salvation, the power of prayer, the second coming, Hell or any sort of afterlife, and sees God more as an internal presence than an external supernatural force.      I am interested in the history and structure of religion...this is my third Spong book.  I thought perhaps this time I would find out just what it is Spong does believe - no such luck.  What I did get was a detailed view of what shaped his life and theology, how he came to write so many books (average of one every 2 years since 1973) and a readable story about an energetic, caring and principled man.    Spong's father was an alcoholic who died when the boy was 12.  Spong wasn't ready for the \\"man of the house\\" role his dependent mother would have liked for him to fill.  His marginally successful early teen years took a positive turn when he joined the boy's choir at the Episcopal Church.  A charismatic priest took an interest, and young Spong began taking leadership roles in every church activity.  By the time he finished the 11th grade, he had decided to become a priest.  Since being a priest required college, Spong buckled down and got all A's in school his senior year - a necessity for college admission since his previous grades were so poor.      From that time on (working within the limitations of objectivity inherent in an autobiography) Spong was a leader in everthing he attempted.  In college, seminary and throughout his early church positions, he provided enthusiastic administrative skills.  Outstanding qualities - a way of creating excitement for projects, organizational skills, people skills, diplomacy, unlimited energy, a developing talent in handling the press, and a willingness to stand up against injustice, even if he might end up standing alone.  He wielded these qualities into explosive growth for each church under his guidance, and through the difficult time of racial de-segregation.  Repeatedly when racial issues were lacking local leadership, Spong stepped forward.  During the occasional loss of a battle, he laid ground to win the war.    Adult Bible study groups were an integral part of each of Spong's churches.  His enthusiastic and always crowded classes repeatedly asked him to publish his classwork, and his second career as a writer began.  He helped the high school football announcer with statistics, soon taking over play by play announcing.  He created a debate over radio with a local rabbi.  He received more and more speaking engagements, sparking a third career.  These days, he has about 200 speaking engagements per year.       The drama of conflict is one of the charms of this autobiography, but it is strictly a memoir of his professional life.  We don't get past a superficial knowledge of either wife or his kids.  The conflicts at the end of the book can get a little too detailed at times, but the inner workings of church hierarchy I found fascinating.      Back to Bishop Spong's theology, I still wonder - given his beliefs - why he doesn't take up watercoloring or golf instead of going to church.  I would like to read his views on what role IS appropriate in his view of the church and how this church would conduct its services.  It is clear that whatever he believes, a significant part of his theology will be based on tolerance and love.  A very good book.	2005-09-27
US	16829939	RAT6JR806SB0S	0312204078	508861703	Fashionable Nonsense: Postmodern Intellectuals' Abuse of Science	Books	5	75	88	N	N	The Hoax Of The Century	In 1994, physicist Alan Sokal from NYU, became fed up.  A certain postmodernist influence within the academic community  was challenging standards of logic, truth and intellectual inquiry.  Could he possibly write a sham article bad enough to be obvious nonsense to any undergraduate physics student, yet good enough to get published in a leading pomo periodical?  Unfortunately for the members of the screening committee for \\"Social Text,\\" the answer was \\"yes.\\"<br /><br />The article itself is presented in the back of \\"Fashionable Nonsense,\\" complete with explanations about the misrepresented physics and the embedded jokes.  It caters to agendas of pomo authorities rather than relying on logic, drips with unreadable prose and has outrageous claims about scientific theories. It includes an illogical train of thought, but apple-polishes the gurus it parodies.  Sokal says, \\"The fundamental silliness in my article lies in the dubiousness of its central thesis and in the 'reasoning' adduced to support it.  Basically, I claim that quantum gravity had profound political and social implications.\\"<br /><br />When Sokal saw that his article was actually going to be published, he began writing his expose of the hoax.  They were published in different magazines on the same day.  Sokal achieved instant infamy and the fallout lasted for years.<br /><br />In preparing to write his article, Sokal researched writings from many offending authors, but could only use a small part of the data.  This book taps the files of his research and attempts to document more completely the repeated abuse of concepts from math and physics by postmodernist authors.<br /><br />This excerpt is from Lacan, a psychoanalyst who compared neurosis with mathematical topology - the study of geometric shapes that become distorted without being torn - a twisted doughnut:  \\"This diagram [the Mobius strip] can be considered the basis of a sort of essential inscription at the origin, in the knot which constitutes the subject.  This goes much further than you may think at first, because you can search for the sort of surface able to receive such inscriptions.  You can perhaps see that the sphere, that old symbol for totality, is unsuitable.  A torus, a Klein bottle, a cross-cut surface, are able to receive such a cut.  And this diversity is very important as it explains many things about the structure of mental disease.  If one can symbolize the subject by this fundamental cut, in the same way one can show that a cut on a torus corresponds to the neurotic subject, and on a cross-cut surface to another sort of mental disease.<br /><br />I can't follow that, nor any of the other excerpts from Lacan - not if I reread it several times.  In dealing with Lacan and other authors, Sokal dissects the math, showing that the authors:<br /><br />1. Hold forth at length on scientific theories about which they have, at best, an exceedingly hazy idea.<br />2. Import concepts from the natural sciences into the humanities or social sciences without giving the slightest conceptual or empirical justification.<br />3. Shamelessly throw around technical terms in a context where they are completely irrelevent.<br />4. Manipulate phrases and sentences that are, in fact, meaningless.<br /><br />Some of the authors, when subjected to Sokal's analysis, are just plain silly and quite entertaining.  Others can get tedious.  Sokal makes his points in each case, making these authors look  ridiculous, to the point of charlatanism.<br /><br />After an analysis that includes consideration of the philosophies of Popper, Kuhn and Feyerabend, Sokal tackles a prevalent belief in humanities departments of universities in the United States - that truths are \\"relative\\"...that no opinion is \\"privileged\\" over another as being more valid than another...that all \\"facts\\" claiming objective existence are simply intellectual constructs...that there is no clear difference between fact and fiction.  Bertrand Russell had manyyears previously answered that question in this diplomatic way:  \\"Science is at no moment quite right, but it is seldom quite wrong, and has, as a rule, a better chance of being right than the theories of the unscientific.  It is, therefore, rational to accept it hypothetically.\\"<br /><br />Interesting that individuals who would trash science reap the benefits of hard science in their daily routines, without giving due credit to the resultant technologies that make their lives so much easier.  A well-deserved 5 stars for the outstanding and restrained expose in this book.ce is at no moment quite right, but it is seldom quite wrong, and has, as a rule, a better chance of being right than the theories of the unscientific.  It is, therefore, rational to accept it hypothetically.\\"    Interesting that individuals who would trash science reap the benefits of hard science in their daily routines, without giving due credit to the resultant technologies that make their lives so much easier.  A well-deserved 5 stars for the outstanding and restrained expose in this book.	2005-09-25
US	16829939	R1JNF6MQ7HX4FQ	0618005838	521873182	The Ancestor's Tale: A Pilgrimage to the Dawn of Evolution	Books	5	56	64	N	Y	A Treatise on Evolution	Ancestor's Tale is a renewal of acquaintance with an esteemed old friend - and a comprehensive review of our ancestral past.  Dawkins takes us backwards through time to our original ancestors, passing through 38 branching points.  Each intersection is represented by a creature, most of them now extinct.  At each branching point, Dawkins searches for a lesson in evolution.    For example:  A certain gull that lives in England can't or won't interbreed with a somewhat similar gull that shares its geography.  If you circled the globe observing this gull - going west and staying on latitude - the gull starts to change.  From England to Greenland, Canada, Alaska, the Aleutians, Siberia, across Asia and back to England, that first gull gradually turns into the other.  At every step along the way, they interbreed.  When does this gull \\"become\\" one species and quit being the other?  The salamanders that live on the ridge of mountains that surround the Central Valley of California (40 miles by 400 miles) are another example of the many \\"ring species\\"  of the world.      The term \\"species\\" more reflects the human drive to label things than it serves a useful function in nature.  As evolution occurred, living things gradually turned into other living things.  Lines of continuity connect whole groups of past and present living things.  If they were all still alive today, attempting to separate cats from dogs would be a doomed enterprise.  Instead of discrete names, we would need sliding scales, placing labels in the realm of fiction.  We don't recognize evolution when it happens because it occurs too slowly - not something we could recognize in one (or 10) lifetimes.    Species are sometimes defined as groups that can't interbreed with other groups.  Sometimes, species can interbreed, but won't.  The insects with the big red thoracic dot and the unadorned ones ignore each other - until the curious entomologist paints red dots on the plain ones.  Immediately the orgy begins, creating normal progeny.  Is it possible that human skin color and distinct superficial differences among races developed as a matter of sexual selection?  There are very few differences among races as obvious as those of overt cosmetic appearance.  Although races freely intermarry now, the Stone Age mind which evolved over the last several hundred thousand years was perhaps more selective about mixing their genes with outsiders.    Dawkins presents us with evolutionary lessons throughout the book, but Darwinian pearls do not accompany all branching sites.  This is a major flaw of \\"The Ancestor's Tale.\\"  I suspect I'm not alone in skipping over the descriptive biology of various living or extinct forms of life, as well-written as they may be.  The book is still excellent.    Evolution has been described as \\"the single best idea in science.\\"  Thomas Huxley, upon reading \\"Origin of the Species,\\" said, \\"how stupid of me not to have thought of that.\\"  Someone else (I can't remember who) said, \\"Nothing in biology makes any sense outside of the theory of evolution.\\"  Today's premier public advocate for evolution solidifies the evidence for us in his usual clear prose.  A definite 5 stars.	2005-09-15
US	16829939	RLV5HY7J0Q5WX	0060762055	657125991	The Sins of Scripture: Exposing the Bible's Texts of Hate to Reveal the God of Love	Books	4	34	43	N	N	Rescuing the Bible From Misuse	Former Bishop Spong doesn't believe in the Bible as the inspired word of God.  He doesn't believe Jesus was born of a virgin, that he died in atonement for sin, or that he was physically resurrected from the dead.  He doesn't believe in salvation, the second coming or Hell, and sees God more as an internal presence than an external supernatural force.  But he loved the Bible as a child and still does as a retired Episcopalean Bishop.  This book's purpose is to rescue the Bible from those who first literalize it and then so badly abuse it.     Can the \\"Word of God\\" be bound to the levels of knowledge that were transcended centuries ago?  Can the writers of these sacred scriptures be expected to think beyond their place in history - or is it time to call the Church and the Bible to accountability?  In his own 20 - 25 complete readings of the Bible, in addition to a lifetime of study and instructing others, Spong says the Bible condemns itself with its own words.  These \\"Sins of Scripture\\" have been quoted throughout Christian history to justify behavior that is simply evil, with parallels in the Muslim Koran.      The most recent obscene justifications invoking God are OBL - 911; the Palestinians - suicide bombers in Israel; and Spong adds, GWB - invading Iraq.  From the Bible, the stories of the Old Testament are comparable, dripping with blood and pathos.  But even though the Bible is rife with stories justifying  murder, rape, war, and abuse of women and children, there are only nine verses in the Bible that deal with homosexuality.  The homophobic folks take half of those partially out of context and the other half refer back to the first half. According to Spong, the first line of offense against gays now appears to be the Bible and the argument is \\"frail, fragile and pitiful,\\" yet the conservative right has made it one of THE self-righteous issues of the day.           Spong says there are minority voices throughout the Bible, less dramatic, that speak of a different understanding of the God experience that make more sense in our era.  Proverbs speaks of humanity being part of a \\"life force.\\"  Acts speaks of a \\"spirit-filled\\" people that step beyond tribal boundaries and respond to a call for a new humanity...yet institutional Christianity has become so consumed by its quest for power and authority - most of which is rooted in excessive claims from the Bible - that the authentic  voice of God can no longer be heard.    Spong claims to have 200 speaking engagements every year - demands on his time probably explain the book's lack of total cohesiveness.  It still reads well, however, and I agree with his message and  criticisms of fundamentalism.  If one goes down the block, across the nation or around the world to each church, synagogue, mosque or holy place, some fundamentalists of each theology will be found.  These sub-groups all have the annoying habit of claiming that their group alone, once and for all, has solved the great riddles of life.  It seems to me, amongst all that varied dogma, there is only one way in which  any one of them or all of them can be right; that being the extent to which that group teaches a theology of tolerance and love.	2005-08-30
US	16829939	R2GTSWBF7ZO4ZD	0060006641	545117488	On Writing Well, 25th Anniversary: The Classic Guide to Writing Nonfiction	Books	5	73	78	N	Y	How To Improve Your Book Reviews on Amazon	Zinsser asserts that writing well can be learned.  This is good news.  I thought I wrote well until I compared my reviews to those of some of the consistent top reviewers on Amazon.  How do they do that?    According to Zinsser (and affirmed by Tom Clancy on a TV interview), good writers follow rules, editing each sentence and paragraph multiple times.  They write against deadlines whether or not they're feeling inspired.  When done properly, the finished product can look deceptively simple to write.  Following is my liberally abridged summary of Zinsser's rules:    1. Do - prune out every word that does not perform a necessary function.  Strip each sentence to its cleanest components.  A clear sentence is no accident.    2. Do - use the thesaurus liberally.  Learn the small gradations between words that seem to be synonyms.    3. Do - try to improve the rhythm by reversing the order of a sentence, substituting a word that has freshness or oddity, and by varying the lengths of sentences.    4. Do - make your first sentence the best one - your lead must capture the reader.    5. Do - make each sentence lead into the next.  Readers think linearly.    6. Do - Take special care with the last sentence in your paragraph - its the springboard to the next paragraph.    7. Do - make your paragraphs short.  Readers think in segments.    8. Do - pay special attention to the last sentence.  The perfect ending should take your reader slightly by surprise and yet seem exactly right.    9. Do - Read it aloud to see how it sounds and re-edit - then do it again.  Clear writing is the result of lots of tinkering.      On the other hand:    1. Don't - use passive verbs unless there is no comfortable way to use an active verb.    2. Don't - use adverbs that convey the same meaning as your strong active verb - prune it out.    3. Don't - use adjectives when the concept is already in your carefully chosen noun - prune it out.    4. Don't - use small words that qualify how you feel: \\"a bit,\\" \\"a little,\\" \\"sort of,\\" and dozens more.  Good writing is lean and confident.    5. Don't - use concept nouns:     Instead of - \\"The common reaction is incredulous laughter.\\"     Write - \\"Most people just laugh with disbelief.\\"    6.  Don't - use the exclamation point unless you must, do use the period more frequently, don't forget the versatile dash, and cut down on the use of semi-colons and colons.  If you don't know how to punctuate, get a grammar book.      The next book I read was the New York Times bestseller, \\"Shadow Divers,\\" by Robert Kurson.  I read slowly with Zinsser's rules in mind, analyzing individual words, sentences and paragraphs.  I looked for clutter, excess wordage, grandiose exaggerations, qualifiers, bad punctuation - and other common errors Zinsser considered awful.  I couldn't find any.  What I consistently found were techniques listed in the \\"do\\" list and just good creative writing.  No wonder this author was successful.  Within two chapters I was hooked, dropped my analysis, and finished the book very late that night.    Clancy said, \\"I hate writing - it's too much work.  I put off starting as long as possible, and when I do start, it takes a year for me to write a book.\\"  Maybe not a recommended method for plugging a book, but Clancy's statement reveals the sweat equity he puts into each phrase.    Zinsser's book says we can learn to write better using proven techniques, and offers plenty of advice in this story-book type narrative.  I plan on keeping it close by, next to my new thesaurus.	2005-08-27
US	16829939	R11C2RY8EEPW86	0375508589	62929266	Shadow Divers: The True Adventure of Two Americans Who Risked Everything to Solve One of the Last Mysteries of World War II	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Among other things, A Perfect Example of Careful Writing	Immediately before finding this book, I read and reviewed \\"On Writing Well,\\" by Zinsser.  With that book in mind, I began \\"Shadow Divers\\" slowly, looking for clutter, excess wordage, grandiose exaggerations, qualifiers, bad punctuation - and other techniques Zinsser considered awful. I could find none.  The lead sentences and closing sentences in each paragraph were strong.  The sentences were not all the same length and each thought led into the next.  Unusual words were not excessive and when used, added clarity.  I found examples of Zinsser's techniques being used and a wealth of good creative writing.  No wonder this author was successful.  Within a chapter I was hooked, dropped my analysis and finished this book very late that night.    In addition to doing a good job technically, this author had a good story, did his research meticulously and was careful to include the human element on every page - I'm not surprised it was a New York Times Bestseller.  Highly recommended.	2005-08-27
US	16829939	R7SAQ5QDDESCO	0441003257	624269601	Good Omens	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	The Apocalypse With A Lighter Touch	The Earth was created October 21, 4004 BC, around 9 AM (fossilized dinosaur skeletons being a joke paleontologists haven't seen yet).  \\"That went down like a lead balloon,\\" said Crawly the serpent - \\"I mean, first offense and everything.  I can't see what's so bad about knowing the difference between good and evil.\\"  It was then that he changed his name to Crowley and became the devil's representative on Earth.    Over the next 6000 or so years, Aziraphale (the good angel) and Crowley worked out a comfortable arrangement.  It seems that agents of all sorts have more in common with their competitors than with their superiors (whom they rarely see).  If they unspokenly agreed to a non-interference clause, they could both demonstrate to their masters that they were making remarkable headway against their clever adversaries.  When the Apocalypse was announced, they agreed to a secret meeting at the duck pond, along with all the other spies.    Summary of characters:    Sister Mary Loquacious - A Satanic nun from the Chattering order of St. Beryl, her assignment being the newborn nursery baby switch.  When she first met the Anti-Christ AKA the Adversary, Destroyer of Kings, Angel of the Bottomless Pit, Great Beast that is called Dragon, Prince of This World, Father of Lies, Spawn of Satan and Lord of Darkness - she talks sweetly to him and plays with his toesywosies.    Newton Pulsifer - A witchfinder and descendant of the witchfinder, Thou-Shalt-Not-Commit-Adultery Pulsifer (names were more descriptive in those days).  He'd like to believe in a Supreme God, although he would prefer a half-hour chat with Him before committing himself, to clear up a few points.    Adam - The 11 year old Anti-Christ who grew up in a normal home as a normal kid (despite his powers) because of the botched baby swap by Sister Loquacious.  He says, \\"I don't see what's so triffic about creatin' people as people and then gettin' upset 'cos they act like people...Anyway, if you stopped tellin' people it's all sorted out after they're dead, they might try sorting it all out while they're alive.\\"  The Megatron's (Voice of God's) face begins to take on the look familiar to all those subjected to Adam's idiosyncratic line of reasoning.    Madam Tracy - A loveable tarot card expert (she took all the evil cards out of the deck) & medium who was forced into partial retirement from prostitution by age.  She lived next door to witchhunter Shadwell and brought him cookies.    Shadwell - The witchhunter whose teeth were bad enough to make the tooth fairy take retire her wand.  On Sundays, Madam Tracy left a plate of food outside his door...she couldn't help but like him.  For all the good it did, though, she might as well be flicking bread pellets into a black hole...in Shadwell's simple world anyone wearing sunglasses who wasn't actually on a beach was probably a criminal.      Crowley - A snappy dresser who always wore sunglasses, Crowley was a demon who rather liked people, even though his job, which he did well, was to do his best to make them miserable.  Usually, however, he couldn't think up anything half as bad as stuff they thought up themselves...and just when you'd think they were more malignant than ever Hell could be, they would occasionally show more grace than Heaven ever dreamed of.  \\"God does not play games with his loyal servants,\\" said The Megatron.  \\"Whooo-eee,\\" said Crowley, \\"where have you been?\\"       Aziraphale - Angelic representation on earth.  Although he was, of course, neutered, some thought he was gayer than a tree full of monkeys on nitrous oxide.  Scrupulously good, but not pompous enough to carry a righteous demeanor, his cover was book store owner, and his hobby was collecting Infamous Bibles with errors in typesetting.    The Four Bike Riders of the Apocalypse - joined by a group of mortal Hell's Angels and commissioned by Satan himself to find the lost Anti-Christ on the fateful day of Armageddon.    Crowley and Aziraphale take you on a wonderfully paced journey full of insights and witty observations on life.  Pratchett and Gaiman don't let you down as their eccentric cast converges for the climactic scene.  Mark Twain, author of \\"Letters From The Earth\\" would approve of \\"Good Omens,\\" the funniest version of the Apocalypse ever written.  Highly recommended.	2005-08-21
US	16829939	R3UVHEH5UUBBP	0195141830	600036030	The Lost Christianities: The Battles for Scripture and the Faiths We Never Knew	Books	5	33	37	N	N	Another Scholarly Analysis by Ehrman	In my view, Bart Ehrman speaks with more strength and clarity than any other New Testament scholar.  I have heard him in person, listened to his tapes and read his books.  He exudes competency, frequently reminding us that his conclusions are those of a historian.  In the case of \\"Lost Christianities,\\" this means he will not be an advocate for or against any specific early theology - instead, he will explain how the eventual winning Christian theology came to be dominant within the context and politics of that era.       I was subjected to more than my share of fundamentalist preaching, yet values at home were more those of inquiry and evidence toward the world in general.  Ehrman's approach is more to my liking than reiteration of a dogma I've already heard, documented by passages of scripture preselected to prove a certain view.  Consider the development of early Christianity subjected to the same kind of scrutiny one of Shakespeare's plays might receive from a college professor of western world literature - in which speculation is kept to a minimum and explanation is made as to the historical and political forces at work.  This is Ehrman's forte.    Where does Ehrman stand?  He is non-committal, so it is hard to say, although it is obvious he takes a liberal stance of some sort.  Perhaps not for all readers but certainly for that group - religious or not - who wish to enjoy a scholarly account of the evolution of early Christianity - this is your book.	2005-08-21
US	16829939	R3FA9MS3N0HCOH	0131426435	205942551	The World's 20 Greatest Unsolved Problems	Books	4	3	4	N	Y	Heavy in Physics and Cosmology	For this author, 12 of the 20 greatest unsolved problems in science are in physics and cosmology.  He recommends it for anyone teaching science, performing scientific research, the moderately technical reader or the scientific novice.  Well, which one?  I would advocate not for the scientific novice.  Although there is no math, the technical learning curve of physics terminology in a 650 page book would overwhelm most average readers.      Whereas for the professional physicist there would be nothing new in this book, there is plenty for those of us struggling to understand the current state of knowledge.  New technologies in each area are mentioned, creating a feeling in the reader that  this is a fascinating scientific era in which to be alive.    Astronomy:  The mystery of dark matter - the galaxies would simply disintegrate if there was no dark matter surrounding them to keep them together.    Cosmology:  The construction of a consistent quantum theory of gravity with an update on the possible discovery of the \\"God particle.\\"    Theoretical high energy physics:  The unification of the basic forces.    Biology:  How the basic processes of life are carried out by DNA & proteins.    Paleontology:  How present day microbiological information can be used to construct the ancient tree of life.    Neuroscience:  Free Will & Consciousness.    Geology:  Dynamics of the inner earth and earthquake predicting.    Chemistry:  Geared toward physics with the rich future of fullerenes & nanotubes.    Free Energy:  More physics with emphasis on future energy needs and an interesting overview about waste product disposal from nuclear reactors.     There is no end to the wealth of information in this book, and a few surprises.  For example, there is an endorsement of cold fusion, a dead concept from the point of view of mainstream science.  After reading this section early on, I continued with a critical eye, however, I ran into nothing else I definitely knew to be questionable.Interestingly, one of Vacca's guest scientists Richard Muller comments, \\"parallel universe theory is not serious theory.  It is what physicists play with when they're being idle...Inflation is an attractive theory because it has no competitors.\\"      As stated by some of the reviewers, this book has a down side.  It is somewhat redundant, not such a bad thing considering the depth of the subject matter.  While some chapters are exceptionally good, others seems to lack cohesiveness.  His very excellent chapter in Geology and earthquake prediction is not accurately described in the preface.  Perhaps to make a 650 page book better edited would have taken another 6 months.  For these reasons, I will give this book less than the highest rating.  That being said, for its thorough discussions and explanations of subject matter I'm interested in, it will remain on my bookshelf and be used frequently for reference.  Highly recommended.	2005-08-14
US	16829939	R2SJ91YUTNGS9M	0375713425	993838176	The Next Fifty Years: Science in the First Half of the Twenty-first Century	Books	5	19	20	N	Y	Captivating	Twenty-five scientists expound on what the world will be like in 2050.  The quality in my opinion is a little spotty and too many of them preface their story with a disclaimer about the fallacy of making predictions - but well over half of them are absolutely invigorating.  Each new chapter is like taste-testing a new flavor of ice cream blindfolded. They all tend to focus on big developments in their own field, as they should.  My favorite approach for this assignment was by Judith Rich Harris who gave a lecture in 2050 at the age of 125.  She first thanked previous scientists for the contributions they had made to human longevity.  Overall, this is a superb read.    Lee Smolin - We will have a more detailed history of the universe which will constrain current theories about INFLATION...we may or may not have observed dark matter and dark energy.  String Theory (its only mention in this book) will be ruled in or out by observations within a few years.    Ian Stewart - The concept of \\"proof\\" in mathematics will come under scrutiny and will survive.  The use of computers in mathematical proofs will be ingrained.  We will have a rigorous mathematical theory of emergent phenomenon and the high level dynamics of complex relationships.    Martin Rees - We will know how life began on earth.    Allison Gopnik - The emergence of the disciplines of philosophy of science, AI, statistics and developmental psychology will lead to a full-fledged theory of how we learn.    Paul Bloom - The fact that evolutionary considerations exist as a source of evidence in the study of psychology will no longer be questioned.    Geoffrey Miller - The charge that evolutionary psychology is a set of \\"just-so stories\\" will vanish, as we see the genetic footprints of evolution all over our brains.      Milahy Csikszentmihalyi - We will have the ability to control the genetic make-up of the human species.    Robert Sapolsky - Our traditional sources of solace will progressively atrophy...we willbecome sadder.    Steven Strogatz - Our brains are hardwired by evolution to visualize only three dimensions.  We will be rescued from the demon of dimensionality by computers.  We may end up as bystanders, unable to follow along with the machines we've built, flabbergasted by their startling conclusions.    Richard Dawkins - A patient will purchase the read-out of his entire genome for $160 (today's money).  The doctor will hand out a prescription suited precisely to his/her genome.  Detectives finding a blood-stain may be able to issue a computer image of the suspect's face.  The \\"Lucy Genome Project\\" will create Lucy (Jurassic Park style).  The existence of a living, breathing Lucy in our midst will change forever our complacent human-centered view of morals and politics.      Paul Davies - We will go to Mars.    John Holland - We will still know surprisingly little about the relationship between consciousness and neural activity.  We will wear a wrist-watch sized multi-function device which assists us with all aspects of living, including social and political decisions.  This will create a logarithmic increase in the number of people who routinely explore options in a principled way.  We will have robotic trained assistants, but they will be brittle in unexpected situations.  We will have engineered solutions to diseases and artificial immune systems.  We will have flexible individual or group transport, without confinement to roads, making highway systems obsolete.  Surveillance will be so advanced, privacy and freedom will be an issue.  We will have bases on the Moon, Mars and circling Jupiter.  This writer gets a gold star for creativity and bold predictions.    Rodney Brooks - We will perhaps be able to add a few sheets of neurons to our brains.  We can expect radical alterations to the human body through genetic manipulation.  What responsibilities does the individual scientist have for whatever forms of life he manipulates - or creates?  Questions like these will thrashed out, accompanied by vandalism, terrorism and full-fledged war.  Another gold star.    Peter Atkins - We will produce working proteins and a good synthetic approximation of cell membranes, but we will not yet synthesize life.  Carbon nanotubes will be used to build suspension bridges.  Bacteria, already being milked for pharmaceuticals and other chemicals, will be engineered to excrete whole machines.    Roger Schank - Knowledge will be so easy to obtain that virtual reality systems will replace schools.  The creation of virtual experience will be a major industry.      Jaron Lanier - Computers files will be replaced and an alternative to protocol adherence will be found.  In a wide variety of explorations, we will be limited by complexity ceilings, which cannot be breached by faster computers.    David Gelernter - The standard shape of information will be a form he calls the \\"information beam.\\"  The affiliated Cybersphere will replace the Internet.  We will still be reading books, but most universities will be gone.  Technology will be vastly more powerful but we will be less fixated upon it.  A school will be a random collection of kids, each tapped into his information beam.  We won't need cities any more, except as gigantic museums/theme parks/shopping malls.    Joseph Ledoux - Brain fMRI techniques will be refined enough to identify potential criminals.  As we discover more about the balance between the conscious and unconscious mind, lawyers will thrash out the nature and limits of human responsibility.  Drugs will treat troubled networks in the brain without affecting others, and recreational re-wiring will be available.    Judith Rich Harris - In 2016, the US government will refuse to fund any more developmental psychology studies that don't include genetic controls.  The older generation of developmental psychologists will promptly retire.  In 2021, it will be discovered that Neanderthals were furry, that humans and Neanderthals viewed eachother as food, and that humans  viewed Neanderthals as a source of warm clothing.    Samuel Barondes - Anyone visiting a psychiatrist will bring his personal DNA file.  There will be hundreds of medications to choose from, matched to one's genome.    Paul Ewald - Atherosclerosis, diabetes, Alzheimer's, schizophrenia, most cancers and most fertility problems will be known to be caused by infections.    There is much to mull over in the fascinating speculations and predictions in this book.  Despite the shortcomings of a multi-authored book, it definitely earns FIVE ENTHUSIASTIC STARS!!!	2005-08-06
US	16829939	R1T6SJR3G6FJDJ	0195141822	280794564	Lost Scriptures: Books that Did Not Make It into the New Testament	Books	5	139	146	N	N	They Didn't Make The Cut	In my view, Bart Ehrman is the most important New Testament scholar of this generation.  I have heard him speak, have listened to his tapes and have read his books.  He absolutely exudes competency, always pointing out that he is looking at his subject from the point of view of a historian.  In the case of \\"Lost Scriptures,\\" this means he will not be an advocate for or against any particular book that did not make the cut.  Instead, he will try to put each book in its historical perspective considering the political tone of the times:  \\"We should not overlook the circumstance that in some times and places these 'other' writings were in fact sacred books, read and revered by devout people who understood themselves to be Christians...for the New Testament itself is the collection of books that EMERGED from the conflict, the group of books advocated by the side of the disputes that eventually established itself as dominant and handed the books down to posterity as 'the' Christian Scriptures...moreover, the victors in the struggles to establish Christian orthodoxy not only won their theological battles, they also rewrote the history of the conflict; later, readers, then, naturally assumed that the victorious views had been embraced by the vast majority of Christians from the very beginning.\\"    I was reared in a setting of somewhat fundamentalist preaching, yet values at home were those of inquiry and evidence toward the world in general.  Ehrman's approach is much more to my liking than reiteration of a dogma I've already heard, documented by passages from scripture pre-selected to prove a certain view.  Consider these books subjected to the same kind of scrutiny one of Shakespeare's plays might receive from a college professor of western world literature - in which speculation is kept to a minimum and explanation is made as to the historical and political context of the book.    In this book is a collection of remarkably varied writings from early Christian groups - fifteen gospels, five Acts of the Apostles, thirteen Epistles, seven apocalypses, and five canonical lists.  This final category shows how even within \\"orthodox\\" circles there was considerable debate concerning which books to include.      Where does Ehrman stand?  He is so non-committal, it is impossible to tell, although it is obvious that he takes a liberal stance of of some sort.  He approaches each subject strictly as a historian.  Perhaps not for all readers, but certainly for that segment of curious Christians and non-Christians who wish to enjoy a scholarly account of issues surrounding the New Testament - especially the gospels, acts, letters and apocalypses that didn't make it - this is your book.	2005-07-28
US	16829939	R225UR7S7BWV8H	0195154622	57145412	The New Testament: A Historical Introduction to the Early Christian Writings	Books	5	113	122	N	N	A HISTORICAL Perspective	In my view, Bart Ehrman writes with more clarity and strength than any other New Testament scholar.  I have heard him speak,  listened to his tapes and read his books.  He exudes competency, frequently reminding us that his conclusions are those of a historian - then spends a little time explaining what that means.  In the case of \\"The New Testament,\\" it means he will examine authorship issues, content and revelancy of the various gospels, letters and apocolypses - inside or outside of the canon - differently than they might be examined from the pulpit.  For example, issues of dogma are extensively discussed, but not endorsed nor advocated.  Instead, they are examined for consistency within the whole context of the other books and the political setting in which the early church solidified its views.  As a matter of fact, he is so non-committal it is impossible to tell exactly where he stands - although it is obvious he takes a liberal stance of some sort.      I had more than my share of fundamentalist preaching, yet values at home were those of inquiry and evidence toward the world in general.  Ehrman's approach is more to my liking than reiteration of a dogma I've already heard, documented by passages from scripture pre-selected to prove a certain view.  He compares the gospels, discusses the nuances of their differing themes and considers their probable authorship.  The letters are treated similarly and the book of Revelations is subjected to a fascinating analysis.  Consider the New Testament subjected to the kind of scrutiny one of Shakespeare's plays might receive from a college professor of western world literature - in which speculation is kept to a minimum and explanation is made as to the historical context of the story.    For example, he compares the teachings of the historical Jesus with the theological views of the apostle Paul:  \\"Jesus proclaimed the imminent arrival of a cosmic judge from heaven, the Son of Man, and urged his followers to prepare byrepenting and returning to a faithful adherence to God's law.  Paul, on the other hand, insisted that following the Law would have no bearing on one's salvation, that in fact one could be saved only through faith in Christ's death and resurrection.  Notwithstanding the broad similarities between these two men, both of them first-century apocalyptic Jews, their differences are striking.  Do Jesus and Paul represent the same religion?  Or has Paul transformed the religion OF Jesus into the religion ABOUT Jesus?\\"         Perhaps not for all readers, but certainly for that segment of curious Christians or non-Christians who wish to be exposed to a scholarly account of issues surrounding the New Testament - from a historical point of view - this is your book.	2005-07-28
US	16829939	RL4EOLMSKOZRE	0060558288	261484893	God's Politics: Why the Right Gets It Wrong and the Left Doesn't Get It	Books	4	12	14	N	N	Most Americans are Bluish Red	Despite considerable meandering, Wallis is right and speaks for the majority of Americans.  Neither party has a monopoly on truth - there is more to morality than opposition to abortion and gay marriage - being the loudest voice doesn't make a political position any more correct - carrying a Bible in one hand and a military weapon in the other is not cool - Jesus spent more time empathizing with the poor than TV evangelists do.    This book could have been better organized and 1/3 as long, but its conclusions are valid.	2005-07-27
US	16829939	R9OLYF7QMDP0D	0742534081	301876115	Cloning After Dolly: Who's Still Afraid?	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	An Unlikely Coalition	Since Dolly's cloning, successful clonings have been done on multiple calves, lambs, mice, pigs, rats, Holstein cows, bulls, horses, cats, racing mules and more.  The research teams have been from Texas, Kansas, Connecticut, Idaho, Scotland, Japan, Taiwan, France and elsewhere.  The vast majority of clones have been normal.  Dolly's early death was caused by lifestyle factors which led to an early viral infection, obesity, hip dysplasia and arthritis.    Living up to his reputation as a relentless advocate of cloning, Pence sorts out pseudoscience and nonsense from fact.  The antagonistic fight over embryonic stem cells is an unfortunate distraction, considering that human cloning's main use is merely the next step in the treatment of infertility.  This outstanding book elegantly summarizes the science (lay readers no problem) and the issues opposed to cloning.  They are:  Cloning is an evil practice in itself, inherently destroys the dignity of the child created, is incompatible with the sanctity of life, is against the will of God, inherently dehumanizes children and treats them as commodities, evil because one kind of being is being used as a resource for another, psychologically bad in some way to the child, genes of the cloned child may have some hidden abnormality, and finally, cloning carries with it long term implications for society.    For the Christian Right, all the above arguments are extrapolations of the idea that God makes babies, that God should decide how and when they come, not humans - plus the assumption that God wouldn't want humans cloning babies.  God, himself, has remained characteristically silent on the matter.      Their overwhelming objections to therapeutic cloning are moralistic, theoretical, theological and philosophical, rife with unsubstantiated psychological speculation.  This is not the first time scientists have had to tread their way through the debris of this type of armchair speculation en route to the lab.  The problem withfalling back on moral arguments is that instead of being based on empiric evidence, they are grounded on little more than a cultural belief system - anything can be asserted, with the expectations that others will agree.      To me, the immorality of ignoring possible definitive treatments for relentless disease processes is immense compared to that potential immorality due to speculative ethical objections.      Pence very thoroughly debates each of these arguments, and briefly mentions the soul.  He simply says that the growth continuum of an embryo as it progresses to birth does not exhibit any sudden changes in momentum - signs of a \\"quickening\\" of any sort - before moving on.      Three groups form an unlikely coalition against cloning, led by the Christian Right.  Egalitarians (the democratic left) form the second part of the coalition.  They fear that genes determine variations in abilities and regard any new biological inequality as especially pernicious.  The third group is represented by environmentalism.  As the biotech industry tries to help in feeding an increasing world population, environmentalists call engineered  products \\"Frankenfood\\" and throw up roadblocks every step of the way.  Similarly, these Bio-Luddites are against all aspects of stem cell manipulation.      This book continues to build interest as it progresses to the politics of cloning.  Although only 2% of the population of Germany, France, Belgium, and Holland regularly attend church, many of them fit into the egalitarian and environmentalist groups.  This tiny issue (relative to real world problems) has captured a disproportionate share of attention throughout the world, to the extent that a resolution was brought up before the UN to ban human cloning (not passed).      In summary, this author is a strong advocate of all aspects of advanced biotechnological engineering who writes about WHEN these things are going to come about, not IF.  Even though the reader may disagree with many of his conclusions, he/she will gain a new concept of the ignorance that pervades the public view and a realization that this is truly a battleground of worldviews in conflict.  He describes the opposition as a jihad launched by the Bush administration, together with the Christian Right, the egalitarian group, and environmentalists.      Brilliant, provocative and completely engrossing, \\"Cloning After Dolly\\" presents with penetrating insight the full picture of human cloning today.  Highly recommended.	2005-07-24
US	16829939	RMZXUKNY1WD90	0385338015	141932403	Madame Bovary's Ovaries: A Darwinian Look at Literature	Books	5	3	5	N	Y	Great Title	The idea of \\"original sin\\" didn't quite take root for me, but when I read Wright's \\"The Moral Animal\\" 10 years ago, I was instantly hooked on evolutionary psychology.  Here was an explanation about human behavior I could believe.  The extravagant tail feathers of the peacock and the elaborate seduction altars of the bower bird are burdens the male birds must bear if they wish to secure the affections of the coy and more selective females.  Just as these birds act out their courtship routines, same play every time, evolutionary pressures guarantee that we will openly flaunt (and sometimes secretly hide) our human nature.  No group has documented this better than our great writers of fiction.  The very reason they became famous is because they knew so well how to pluck the strings and play the tunes orchestrated in us by natural selection.<br /><br />Great stories dating from before humans could write have been been rife with courtship, infidelity, jealousy, altruism, game-playing, love, alpha males and choosy females.  They SHOULD be careful and selective.  The male's investment in mating - his \\"lovin' spoonful\\" - pales in comparison to a woman's pregnancy and possible solo child-rearing.  Because human brains are so much  bigger, our courtship games are much more complex than the peacocks, making for a fascinating analysis of our great literature from a completely different perspective, provided here by the Barashes.<br /><br />Chapters include:<br /><br />Male Sexual Jealousy - demonstrated and described in wrenching detail by Shakespeare, Chaucer, Homer, Hemingway, Mark Twain and others.<br /><br />What Women Want & Why - Jane Austen shines here, plus Defoe, Orwell, D. H.  Lawrence, Bronte, Virgil, Shakespeare again and others.<br /><br />What Men Want & Why - Gone With The Wind, Tess of the d'Urbervilles, Lolita, Ullyses, Tropic of Cancer, The Great Gatsby, the movies Pretty Woman and The First Wives Club, and other entrees.<br /><br />The Biology of Adultery - starring Madame Bovary and shockingly detailed by Flaubert, Milton, Homer, Shakespeare, Ovid, Tolstoy, Chaucer, Hawthorne, Joyce, and others.<br /><br />Kin Selection, or the Enduring Importance of Being Family - Starring The Godfather, with Tom Jones and Sophie's Choice, also selections by Faulkner, Shakespeare, London, Kipling, Keats, Alcott and others.<br /><br />Regarding the Struggles of Stepchildren - Les Miserables, Cinderella, Harry Potter, Jane Eyre, Oliver Twist, King Lear, War and Peace, David Copperfield, Silas Marner, and others.<br /><br />Parent-Offspring Conflict - Angst from Phillip Roth, Mark Twain, Shakespeare, The Bible, The Catcher In The Rye, The Brothers Karamazov, Cat on a Hot Tin Roof, and others.<br /><br />Wrath, Reciprocity, & Friendship - The Three Musketeers, A Streetcar Named Desire, The Secrets of Ya Ya Sisterhood, more Shakespeare, several selections from Steinbeck, and others.<br /><br />Epilogue - Literature and Science have, at times, had a rocky road tolerating each other, each carrying their own comforting convictions.  The Barashes assert that literature is \\"more than just a manifestation of DNA, and yet how could biology NOT be relevant to literature?\\"  Hopefully, many in the field of the humanities will be intrigued by their unique approach to literary analysis.<br /><br />Incidently, Barash co-wrote this book with a daughter who is studying biology and literature.  A previous book \\"The Mammal in the Mirror,\\" he co-wrote with another daughter who was in medical school, and another with his psychiatrist wife.  Most likely, this is a positive commentary on not only his interpersonal skills, but also on the advisability of raising children with a full deck of the knowledge in all fields of study available to us all.by Flaubert, Milton, Homer, Shakespeare, Ovid, Tolstoy, Chaucer, Hawthorne, Joyce, and others.    Kin Selection, or the Enduring Importance of Being Family - Starring The Godfather, with Tom Jones and Sophie's Choice, also selections by Faulkner, Shakespeare, London, Kipling, Keats, Alcott and others.    Regarding the Struggles of Stepchildren - Les Miserables, Cinderella, Harry Potter, Jane Eyre, Oliver Twist, King Lear, War and Peace, David Copperfield, Silas Marner, and others.    Parent-Offspring Conflict - Angst from Phillip Roth, Mark Twain, Shakespeare, The Bible, The Catcher In The Rye, The Brothers Karamazov, Cat on a Hot Tin Roof, and others.    Wrath, Reciprocity, & Friendship - The Three Musketeers, A Streetcar Named Desire, The Secrets of Ya Ya Sisterhood, more Shakespeare, several selections from Steinbeck, and others.    Epilogue - Literature and Science have, at times, had a rocky road tolerating each other, each carrying their own comforting convictions.  The Barashes assert that literature is \\"more than just a manifestation of DNA, and yet how could biology NOT be relevant to literature?\\"  Hopefully, many in the field of the humanities will be intrigued by their unique approach to literary analysis.    Incidently, Barash co-wrote this book with a daughter who is studying biology and literature.  A previous book \\"The Mammal in the Mirror,\\" he co-wrote with another daughter who was in medical school, and another with his psychiatrist wife.  Most likely, this is a positive commentary on not only his interpersonal skills, but also on the advisability of raising children with a full deck of the knowledge in all fields of study available to us all.	2005-07-20
US	16829939	R2HC5FZW3SUT9K	1592400876	436381860	Eats, Shoots & Leaves: The Zero Tolerance Approach to Punctuation	Books	5	3	6	N	N	A Woman, Without Her Man, Is Nothing	OR - A WOMAN: WITHOUT HER, MAN IS NOTHING <br /> <br />How in the world does a simple book on punctuation get to be a best seller?  I think the catchy title helped attract attention - but the success of this book has to do with the outrageous, irreverent wit and personal charm of the author.  She writes about punctuation the way Erma Bombeck (bless her soul) used to write about being a housewife.  From page one, she points out how horrible life is for a stickler for punctuation, when most people \\"don't know their apostrophe from their elbow.\\"  You squirm with her as she gives unending examples of butchered grammar in public places.  As a teen, while other girls were \\"out getting abortions,\\" she resorted to midnight vigilante activities with white paint and magic marker on incorrect grocery store signs.  This author admits to mostly presenting an apology - a justification for existence - for punctuation.  Punctuation is traffic signs directing flow...If punctuation is the stitching of language; take the buttons off and the sentence falls apart...It's not the fault of the apostrophe that words need help identifying themselves...don't be the guy who believed there was no limit to the amount of clarification that could be accomplished if he just kept adding commas. <br /> <br />There have been great historical moments for punctuation:  The King James committee that allowed for Purgatory (pleasing the pope), or not (appeasing the protestants), by the placement of a comma (page 74, Luke 23: 43).  Apparently it was up for grabs because the Greeks didn't believe in punctuation.  A war was started by a confusing written message that could have been clarified by a comma.  \\"But heigh ho,\\" Truss says.   <br /> <br />Truss finally gets around to giving us some nuts and bolts:  The period is easy because it's so straightforward -  either it's there or it's not.  Apostrophes and commas have a few very definite rules, then a few irregular rules, then it becomes somewhat self-expressive and discretionary.  (I wonder, should I have used commas, semicolons or hyphens to punctuate the previous sentence! And should that exclamation point be a question mark)?  Should that question mark have gone inside the parenthesis?  There are fewer rules for explanation points, parentheses, dashes, elipses (which I like for lists of broken quotes but probably shouldn't use), semi-colons and colons.  In some cases it depends on whether you live East or West of the Atlantic ocean - and a huge faux pax on a seventh grade paper could be a clever syntactic move for Kurt Vonnegut.   <br /> <br />In this read, getting there is half the fun.  Imagine a book where suspense builds, as one wonders if he/she is ever going to get to the rules of punctuation.  For those who say, \\"What's the big deal - if I get my point across, that's all that counts!\\" - don't bother with this little book.  Instead, go wash your pick-up.  But if you're a little of a stickler yourself, you'll like it.	2005-07-17
US	16829939	R28AMH70CCPRTY	0226284158	284826563	A Century of Nature: Twenty-One Discoveries that Changed Science and the World	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	A Leisurely  Stroll Through Science Nostalgia	1953 - Watson & Crick compromised on their famous understated sentence: \\"It has not escaped our notice that the specific pairing we have postulated immediately suggests a possible copying mechanism for the genetic material.\\"  Crick would have elaborated on this concept.  Watson was less certain the model was perfect and didn't want to dig an erroneous hole too deep.    1960 - Maiman's extremely short paper on the first laser was turned down by \\"Physical Review Letters,\\" then accepted by the even more selective \\"Nature.\\"  Although many scientists were working on creating a machine that would work, engineers and scientists were not ready for its application.  Newspaper headlines talked about \\"death rays,\\" and many suggested the laser was a \\"solution looking for a problem.\\"    1963 - \\"The accepted way of writing scientific papers gives only a veiled glimpse of the heated arguments behind the measured prose, and even then these are visible only to those who know the subject well.\\"  - Dan McKenzie commenting on the article that put the nail in the coffin opposing the modern theories of continental drift, plate tectonics and seafloor spreading.  This article showed the \\"magnetic stripes\\" laid down in emerging molten rock (lava) as it created new ocean crust, documenting earth's polarity reversals over time.  Wegener's ideas from 1915 were only partially right, and his uncongenial arguments and uncritical advocacy delayed tweaking and final acceptance of this theory for almost 50 years.    1970 - One of the \\"Central Dogmas\\" of Evolution is that genetic information only goes one direction.  To go backward would reek of genetic transfer of acquired traits (Lamarckism).  Certain viruses, however, can copy their RNA \\"backward\\" into DNA of unsuspecting hosts, thus their name \\"Retroviruses.\\"  Blocking the enzyme these viruses use (reverse transcriptase) is a major target for attacking HIV.    1973 - Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) should be called Nuclear Magnetic Resonance (NMR).  It was not because of the fear that the patients might be worried about radioactivity, where none exists.  Lauterbur proposed the name \\"Zeugmatography\\" for his new technique, which also didn't catch on.  His theory used the hypothesis that the orientation of the hydrogen proton might be altered by the magnetic field and used to produce 3D images of internal structures.  It took a decade to work out the details.    1977 - Sanger worked out the entire genome of a virus with 5375 DNA rungs.  He stated \\"In considering the sequence of ThetaX174 as a functional unit...\\"  \\"Until this moment, research scientists had always accepted that they must necessarily be ignorant of parts of the biological problem that they studied...then the human genome, in 2000 & 2001...someday the 'transcriptome' and the 'proteome.'  One day, someone will write in a paper, 'In considering the sequence of the human body as a functional unit'...That will be the sound of the crashing palace gates.\\" - Peter Little    1980 - Drosophila development had been studied to death, but 90% of them were lethal, and some Hox genes (developmental control genes) had already been identified.  Nusslein-Volhard & Wieshaus instead of limiting themselves to adults, included the larvae.  They painstakingly studied 40,000 matings which opened up 90% of the genome to investigation. This showed segmental control by only 15 Hox genes.  Suddenly, hoards of molecular biologists appeared to work out the molecular analysis of developmental patterns.  This fusion of 2 major subspecialties has shown that the basic developmental mechanism in animals is all the same, making this paper arguably the most influential paper in its field during the 2nd half of the 20th century.    1985 - Fans of Crichton and his conspiracy theory book \\"State of Fear\\" should read this chapter on the discovery of the misnamed \\"ozone hole\\" in the Antarctic, and the painstaking science that worked out the chemistry of this phenomemon.    1985 - Buckyballs are carbon molecules with 60 carbon atoms naturally formed along with the elements and other molecules during the life cycle of stars.  They consist of 12 pentagons and 20 hexagons of the carbon atom, arranged exactly like the same man-invented arrangement of shapes on the soccer ball.  Despite lots of work, carbon nanotubes now look like the derivative that has the most potential use.    1997 - The Roslin Institute in Scotland cloned the first mammal.  Amazingly, lamb6LL3, forever known as \\"Dolly\\" was cloned from already differentiated cells.  The Roslin group did not expect the outburst of sound and fury that followed the publication of the paper.  \\"Today it is obvious that most, if not all, mammals can be cloned from at least some adult cells, as witnessed by the reported cloning of cloned goats, pigs, cats, and rabbits...this area remains the subject of hot legal, ethical and theological debate.\\" - Davor Solter    Twenty-one original articles from \\"Nature,\\" resulting in many Nobel Prize winners.  Each article is preceded by commentary from an expert in that field who has the benefit of hindsight.  What an interesting book to read!    Five enthusiastic stars!	2005-07-08
US	16829939	RQ6PA4J736VVV	0743224574	87039745	A Beautiful Mind: The Life of Mathematical Genius and Nobel Laureate John Nash	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Peace of Mind	This is a beautifully written book and an intriguing bitter-sweet story; so well-reviewed that I have but one minor thought to add.  The daily existential anxieties that are prevalent in today's society are a trifling inconvenience compared to the constant battles of the mind associated with schizophrenia.  Anyone who reads this book should come away realizing that no matter how many mistakes they've made, or what a jerk they've been, most people will give them a second, third and fourth chance, as they usually did for the unfortunate, courageous, but usually unlovable John Nash.	2005-06-30
US	16829939	R25EMY5NA49N87	0192831348	20907383	The Oxford Dictionary of Philosophy (Oxford Quick Reference)	Books	5	14	16	N	Y	Grateful Help For the Novice	I try to read Philosophy, I really do.  It just seems to have a sedative effect on me.  I frequently read science books that have significant amounts of Philosophy scattered about.  I keep this book right by my side.  As opposed to the Oxford Dictionary of Science, this book almost always includes the entry I'm looking for.  Since it's common in definitions about philosophy to refer to other terms in philosophy, when the second term is also defined in this book, an asterisk is placed on it.  This is quite helpful since I frequently want additional clarification - I'll look up the other word also.  Simon Blackburn writes in a nice style and this book has been exactly the ticket for my needs.	2005-06-30
US	16829939	R1K8VHGI93AV0Z	0684857332	492756331	Ants At Work: How An Insect Society Is Organized	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	Ants Procrastinate??	Yes, sometimes ants work hard.  They ALWAYS look like they work hard - until you look real closely - and maybe put up a few roadblocks.    Deborah Gordon spent 17 summers virtually memorizing the same  25 acres in Arizona with her students, fooling around with about 300 colonies of harvester ants.  She chose them for the scientific reason that they were big enough to see without glasses.      They are efficient?  On page 105, Gordon includes a delightful excerpt from Mark Twain about ants.  \\"They pick up something too large, go over obstructions instead of around, when and if they finally drag the prize into the nest, half the time it's worthless and has to be dragged off by midden workers,\\" - the garbage collectors of antdom.    They are subservient to the queen?  \\"Look to the ant, thou sluggard; Consider her ways and be wise: Which having no chief, overseer, or ruler, Provides her meat in the summer, And gathers her food in the harvest.\\"  Proverbs 6:6.  Gordon agrees with the good book...there is no guiding force.  They just seem to know what to do and frequently change jobs as needed.      They have an elaborate means of communication?  Not that we can see.  Their eyesight is poor and they communicate by touching antennaes, and by sensing perhaps 12 different chemicals on each other.    At 4:30 AM Gordon et al get up, eat breakfast, and take a 20 minute trip out of the mountains to the site, where they set up the experiment they have agonized over, or analyze the one in progress.  Before noon, as the heat sets in, they go back up the mountain and the ants go back into their mound - their foraging done, and the ant watchers' practical jokes accomplished and recorded.  The rest of the day is spent tabulating and analyzing data and dreaming up new tricks in order to tease out more secrets of anthood.    Gordon's process is a good example of the tedious, meticulous work of science.  As she developed her data of the mindless pseudo-efficiency of an ant colony, a correllation occured to me about the self organization of stem cells as they differentiate, specialize, and mindlessly create a living entity, guided by only partially known processes (admittedly not a perfect analogy).    This is a good read, an easy read and refreshingly out of the ordinary.	2005-06-30
US	16829939	RM9EZCJBDZYUJ	0974558303	340171022	Concepts: A ProtoTheist Quest for Science-Minded Skeptics	Books	5	12	12	N	Y	The "Life Urge" Comes From Within	This unusual book advocates a science of religion, \\"Prototheism.\\" The author is careful to point out that he is not advocating Prototheism as a new religion, but as the SCIENCE of religion, a subtle but important distinction.  Prototheism does not rely on on extant God, but instead puts all its marbles on a \\"Life Urge\\" that inhabits all living things - a living thing being any complex collection of molecules above RNA.  Unlike religions, Prototheism is amenable to changes in its tenets in response to new discoveries in science.    From page 184:  \\"Life initially emerged from Earth's matter nearly four-billion years ago as molecules randomly rearranged themselves to better withstand adversity.  Other molecules adopted the practice and elaborated on it, passing their ever more complex and elegant arrangements on to other macromolecules - they replicated.  What was a reaction became a PROaction, a way-of-life, a Life Urge...as this Urge to Life experienced ever greater adversity, it found ever more elegant solutions - synergistic arrangements of complex structures...as nervous systems became more elaborate they became brains and finally brains became reflexive - consciousness emerged.  All Life is innately aware of its Life Urge else it wouldn't be alive...we conscious humans can not only revel in Life but can choose to help carry Life's evolution forward.\\"    The fallacy with this lies in how to scientifically identify the \\"Life Urge.\\"  Without that, Prototheism has nothing to study.  The author presents supporting literature from brain studies but they do not impress me as \\"hard data.\\"  Dennett's (Darwin's Dangerous Idea) coined term \\"sky hooks\\" describes the tendency to ascribe to God that which cannot (as yet) be explained otherwise, that eludes explanation - a \\"God of the Gaps.\\"  The author relied on religion for a large part of his life and then abandoned it.  Rather than searching externally for God, Carleton now looks internally to the \\"Life Urge.\\"  I would question the need to look at all - there are many other explanations (Boyer's \\"Religion Explained,\\" Atran's \\"In Gods We Trust\\").  Among other things, whether a non-religious individual perceives an unfilled void depends on his/her personality and on the role religion played in his early life.      The author is a former Catholic with a rather rigid Jesuit upbringing during the last parts of the depression.  In his adult life an \\"epiphany\\" or two caused him to leave his leadership role in his church.  He is an engineer with an MBA and has always been interested in science.  In his retirement he embarked on a more extensive study of science resulting in this book.  In Prototheism, he postulates that an innate Urge to Life has always been misinterpreted by humans as an external God which doesn't exist.  He is not unduly unkind to religions, and suggests to any non-fundamentalists (realising he is never going to be successful with fundamentalists of any sort) how his idea of a SCIENCE of religion might appeal to them regardless of their current affiliation - including those of Jewish or Islam faith.  The closest religion to his liking appears to be Universal Unitarianism, except that it has no \\"overarching doctrine.\\"  His excerpt about their belief system does seem to match his ethical thoughts.    With that out of the way, might I say a few words about how truly impressive this book is.  The first half is devoted to some of the best summaries of large disciplines of study I have ever read.  The bibliography and his frequent personal comments reveal the untold hours of research, rewrites, and care that went into trying to make clear these difficult concepts.  These are 1) a synthesis of early Christianity  2) cosmology and quantum physics  3) life's beginnings  4) animal evolution  5) human evolution  6) brain development & consciousness.  He appears to be completely mainstream, with the possible exception that 1) He seems to accept group selection  2) He relies on \\"synergy\\" as the core of the Life Urge, but is not convincing  3) He suggests a tentative mechanism for ESP.      In addition to 254 pages of text, there are 106 pages of \\"Notes,\\" very conveniently arranged, extensively documenting his sources and providing additional information in a talkative format.  I looked forward to these sections and read each one after finishing the corresponding chapter.  The \\"Life Urge\\" is partially referenced to other authors, although \\"prototheism\\" is entirely his own.     This can be a challenging read in spots for the scientific novice but well worth the effort.  I frequently saw him leading up to a given topic and eagerly anticipated how he was going to develop it - his many autobiographical inserts adding flavor.  The undertaking of this book was an obvious labor of love and I commend the author for such a well thought out and presented result.    An enthusiastic 5 stars!!	2005-06-25
US	16829939	RW3D619BRN95K	1550023780	860384987	Haunted: The Incredible True Story of a Canadian Family's Experience Living in a Haunted House	Books	5	4	10	N	N	First Rate!	What a scary deal when you buy a house and find out that it is infested with goats.  I at first thought that one was visiting me just last night - but it was just an orderly.  Anyway, back to these people in Canada, it turns out that they have friendly goats...most of them are just kids.  I have contacted the family and volunteered to do the psychotic investigation for them for free because I'm kind of an authority - they smell a little gamey, the billys can really have an evil disposition, and I definitely agree that the crazy things they do at night is a cry for help.  I don't think I can come soon; they won't let me out of here till I get my medication adjusted.  Top notch story!	2005-06-09
US	16829939	R3FA3C02FRYL6M	0195165993	618929715	God?: A Debate between a Christian and an Atheist (Point/Counterpoint)	Books	5	34	40	N	N	Christian vs Atheist Debate	Craig and Sinnott-Armstrong, both college professors and authors, present an engaging high-level debate that should delight readers.  Most of the book is a slightly edited version of 2 actual live debates, held several months apart, in 1999 and 2000.  In the 1st half of the book, Craig speaks first, S-A rebuts, then Craig is allowed a summary (for the book) clarifying his position.  In the 2nd half of the book, roles are reversed - S-A speaks first, Craig rebuts, then S-A is allowed a summary (for the book) solidifying HIS views.    Be ready for courtroom-like drama as sparks fly in an electrified environment of sharply divided opinions.  There are accusations of straw men, as hoc arguments, bloated conclusions, drawing false dichotomies, excessive footnotes (questionable appeals to authorities), equivocation, begging the question, misrepresentation, failure to understand, failure the answer the question, etc.  There is a certain amount of hair-splitting, similar to when Bill Clinton tried to redefine the word \\"is.\\"  Once the name-calling subsides, however, and the dust settles, several standard arguments remain, passionately appealed by both gentlemen.    Craig presents 5 good reasons to believe that God exists:  1. God makes sense of the origin of the universe.  2. God makes sense of the fine-tuning of the universe.  3. God makes sense of objective moral values in the world.  4. God makes sense of the life, death, and resurrection of Jesus.  5. God can be immediately known and experienced.    S-A present 3 arguments that God does not exist:  1. The problem of evil - An all-knowing, all-powerful, all-good God should not and would not allow to occur the horrible tragedies that have always plagued humanity.  2. The problem of action - God is independent of time.  I really didn't think this section was very relevant.  3. The argument from ignorance - no evidence.        Craig handles the argument of the origin of the universe well.   His strongest argument concerns the fine-tuning of the universe.  \\"It seems vastly more probable that a life-prohibiting universe rather than a life-permitting universe like ours should exist.  The existence of intelligent life depends on a conspiracy of initial conditions, that must be fine tuned to a degree that is literally incomprehensible and incalculable.\\"  He includes quotes from Hawkings and others who appear to support his view.  S-A challenges this argument, but I think not well.  I would like to read more about this subject from a third party, and references are provided in the bibliography.    The moral argument from Craig is not convincing to me.  Evolutionary and cultural studies suggest that in early human history, groupings of people up to about 50 used peer-pressure effectively to maintain order.  As population groupings began to exceed that amount, the system failed and a more rigid hierarchy, including laws, supplemented the older peer-pressure methods for handling \\"cheaters.\\"  In this scenario, Man's strong tendency to be a social animal included the development of a sense of morality, with or without religion.  I have no problem with this, and see Craig opposing this with weak mental gymnastics.      In Craig's resurrection argument, he relies a lot on scripture.  For those who see the Bible as merely stories written by men; sorry, it just doesn't do the trick.  It is easier for me to believe that Paul and others created an expedient dogma of  religion ABOUT Jesus, a  Jewish teacher who was caught up in an unfortunate  political situation the resulted in his crucifixion.       For Craig's last argument, about experiencing God, I would argue that psychological and neurobiological studies indicate that one of the things we are best at is self-delusion.                                                                    S-A's strongest argument is about evil/tragedy.  For example, S-A would assert that the recent Indonesian tsunami that indiscriminately killed over 150,000 innocentpeople was totally unnecessary and preventable.  God could have and should have prevented this from happening.  Page after page, S-A describes horrors and suggests how easy it would have been for an all-knowing, all-powerful and all-good God to have intervened.  He consistently does not intervene, \\"Therefore,\\" S-A says, \\"there is no God.\\"    The argument of no evidence is also argued well by S-A.  In particular, he is very eloquent in suggesting that God, if he exists and wants contact with us, should be more directive in attempting communication in a recognizable way.  However, I have always questioned arguments for religion on the basis of there being no scientifically acceptable evidence, since religion is faith-based anyway.  Evidence is not necessary.    Craig fights back in his rebuttal, asserting that during horrible loss of life in China (20 million), El Salvador (civil war, earthquakes, economic collapse), Ethiopia (repression, famine, war, death of millions), that 10's of millions were converted to Christ.  In my view he has a hard time with this argument.  The \\"salvation\\" of the survivors does nothing for the death of millions from the Black Plague, and there was not even an ideological religious benefit for the ancestors of most of the victims of earth's wars, earthquakes, epidemics, or other catastrophes...such as the population decimation of the American Indians by disease brought by Europeans.  Page after page, S-A drives this point home, and it's hard for Craig to polish this crabapple to even a dull lustre.          All in all, this is an exemplary book on an always timely subject of great significance in our everyday lives.  I congratulate these fine gentlemen on this debate, and note that in the preface, Craig thanks S-A for being such a \\"charitable and engaging partner,\\" and S-A thanks Craig for \\"providing such spirited and genial opposition.\\"      Who won the debate?  Votes were not taken, but each side had great representation.  I found myselfsiding with the arguments I already had strong opinions about, regardless of good argumentation to the contrary, and suspect that each person's  winner will be individualized to his/her pre-debate bias.  Perhaps the specific brand of ideology one prefers is determined more by his/her psychological make-up than by logic.      An enthusiastic 5 stars!	2005-06-08
US	16829939	R1ZDQTATLYXHZJ	0393323145	790320833	The Seven Daughters of Eve: The Science That Reveals Our Genetic Ancestry	Books	5	9	9	N	N	A Short Memoir About Bryan Sykes	I liked this book.  Sykes butters his own biscuit quite a bit, but he does have a tale to tell.  It's always nice when a new technology comes along with hard data that puts an end to speculation.  Hard data such as that from mitochondrial DNA or from its cousin, the Y chromosome, can tell us whether full or half Neanderthals are alive today (they're not).  They can tell us whether Polynesians came from Asia or from South America on a Thor Heyerdahl type watercraft (from Asia).  They can reveal to us whether is was truly the famous Russian tsar and his family found in a certain grave; all murdered (it was).  They reveal these things to us just as accurately as the DNA studies that tell us both pomeranians and saint bernards came from wolves.      Sykes reveals his story in a captivating fashion that builds suspense and manages to teach a few techniques in experimental  science at the same time.  Perhaps I'm just easily entertained, but I also liked the soap opera-like fiction at the end where he speculated about the lives of Europe's ancestors.  I was enjoying the book so much, I was disappointed when it was over - a must read for anyone with a little interest in (or even tolerance for) science.	2005-06-06
US	16829939	R1X0QN9F98063M	0804717702	71161735	Evolution and the Myth of Creationism: A Basic Guide to the Facts in the Evolution Debate	Books	5	32	44	N	N	The Case Against "Scientific " Creationism	My son passed this book on to me when he was in a Catholic University.  It was part of required reading in a Biology class, along with a copy of a book by Morris advocating the other viewpoint.  Morris's book pretty much said, \\"the Bible says blah blah, blah, therefore, science is wrong.\\"  Berra's superb book began in the preface with a scathing indictment of the agenda behind Scientific Creationism - that agenda being enforcement of religious views on our educational system.  In the process, Creationists misinterpret science wherever they like in order to make it fit the Bible.      As applied to Scientific Creationism, \\"Scientific\\" is a misnomer.  In order to qualify as science, first , data is gathered.  A \\"Hypothesis\\" based on the data is formulated.  The hypothesis is tested and results are published in a peer-reviewed scientific journal.  The hypothesis, if it passes muster so far, is subjected to retesting by other scientists with verification of the results.  The hypothesis describes \\"how\\" a process works, but says nothing about \\"why.\\"  A \\"Theory\\" may eventually be developed which explains \\"why\\", and has a stronger meaning in science than the usual dictionary definition.  To become a theory indicates general acceptance by the scientific community, may be the end result of decades or even centuries of groundwork, and is always susceptible to modification or even rejection if new data demands it.  This is the scientific method that helped to bring us out of the Dark Ages.  Any theory that is not subjected to these procedures does not belong in science class.    Research for Scientific Creationism consists of careful perusal of the scientific literature, hoping to isolate quotes, ideas, or disagreements amongst scientists which can then be misinterpreted to support Creationist arguments.  This is not hypothesis testing.  There is no testing in Creationism, but then religion is supposed to be about faith, whereas science is about evidence.    Berra gives us several chapters outlining the very basics of evolution.  Starting on page 126, he lists 16 assertions that Creationists hang their hat on, which are contradictory to basic sciences in geology, physics, biology, or chemistry.    These are given in only a sentence or two, and Berra's rebuttals are almost as brief.  He has a chapter about the politics of this sad situation, all in  very blunt prose, not mincing words.      Fortunately, Scientific Creationism's assertions are easily dealt with and you don't have to be a serious scholar to be convinced.  Unfortunately, about the time Berra wrote this great little book, a new tactic arose called Intelligent Design.  Briefly, the most liberal brand of the ID movement accepts a 4.5 billion year old earth and most of evolution, as the way God created man...however, at some unspecified crossroads in evolution, an unidentified \\"designer\\" intervened.  This \\"had to be\\" because certain aspects of biochemistry/the eye/the flagellum are \\"irreducibly complex.\\"    The spectrum of ID belief runs the gamut of belief from close to Scientific Creationism to close to complete belief in all of evolution, beginnings of life from primordial sludge and the Big Bang.  For the more liberal versions, there are perhaps 5 times as many who would vote for the concept to be taught alongside evolution in high school as there were for Scientific Creationism.  This is sort of OK with a lot of the more conservative IDers because it gives them a \\"wedge\\" of entry.  Later on, the agenda can be broadened to exclude \\"materialistic and sinful\\" theories such as evolution from the curriculum altogether.  Willingness to obtain by legislation, judicial decree, or the sword that which cannot be obtained by evangelism has a long history within our species.    Back to the book, it is excellent.  It is without peer for its day, due to its brevity & clarity, but it needs an update.  I urge Dr. Berra to write an up to date version, edited to satisfy some of the complaintsin these reviews, and to give the major portion of the book over to rebuttal of Intelligent Design.  The chameleon has undergone a transformation and needs to be slapped back down again.	2005-06-06
US	16829939	R3BDZYH4VCDPAX	0195161998	352450477	God, the Devil, and Darwin: A Critique of Intelligent Design Theory	Books	5	31	41	N	Y	It's a Theory But You Can't Test It	The present \\"theory\\" of Intelligent Design is more sophisticated than that of the New Earth Creationists.  ID advocates cannot be dismissed as easily by basic science in geology, carbon dating, or physics.  The learning curve in order to adequatedly understand nuances in evolution and biochemistry is steep.  Shanks takes the above fields, adds thermodynamics, anthropomorphism and cosmology, and challenges ID in this book.  For the non science oriented readers, it's a little deep.  Of course, the ID books by Behe (one of the 3 main ID advocates) are also deep and his biochemistry seems accurate (till he gets to \\"irreducible complexity\\").  It just takes more than one's first read on this subject in order to figure out who is gilding the lily.    The stakes are high because the eventual goal is enforcement of religious opinions on the educational system.  If just a little bit of ID can be \\"wedged in\\" and get equal time with evolution in high school, later it can be broadened...eventually \\"evil and materialistic\\" theories such as evolution might be omitted altogether.       Now a word or two about the scientific method:  In order to qualify as a science, first data is gathered.  A Hypothesis based on the data is formulated.  The hypothesis is tested and results are published in a peer-reviewed scientific journal.  The hypothesis, if it passes muster so far, is subjected to re-testing by other scientists with verification of the results.  The hypothesis describes \\"how\\" a process works but says nothing about \\"why.\\"  A Theory may eventually be developed which explains why and has a stronger meaning in science than the usual dictionary definition.  To become a theory indicates general acceptance by the scientific community, may be the end result of decades or even centuries of groundwork.  This theory is always susceptible to modification or even rejection if new data demands it.  This is the scientific method that helped bring us out of the Dark Ages.  Any hypothesis or theory that is not subjected to this stringent method of inquiry does not belong in science class.    Shanks gives ID more credence than I would.  Research for ID consists of careful perusal of the scientific literature, hoping to isolate quotes, ideas or disagreements amongst scientists that can then be misinterpreted to support ID arguments.  This is not scientific theory testing.  ID involves an unidentified designer who intervenes at inspecified crossroads in evolution and there is nothing available to test - but then religion is supposed to be about faith and not evidence.      Interestingly, advocates of Christianity tried over and over to have direct support for their faith placed in the US Constitution.  Repeatedly, they were turned down by the founding fathers, many of whom had gone through a few rounds of witch trials earlier in their lives.  King George III had tried to dictate to them the only acceptable forms of worship, making them hair-trigger sensitive to issues of separation of church and state.  Trying to obtain by legislation, decree, or the sword that which cannot be obtained by evangelism has a long history within our species.    Back to the book, Shanks tells us more about thermodynamics than I really want to know, and he is just as thorough in the other chapters.  For the short cut version, consider just the excellent foreward by Dawkins, and the introductory and summary chapters by Shanks.  If you want more, it is there and is very well done. I congratulate Niall Shanks on his very excellent, timely and much needed book.  Highly recommended!	2005-06-06
US	16829939	R8NOFQA8Y813V	0066214130	57180289	State of Fear	Books	4	23	29	N	Y	Interesting, but read the rebuttals	Creighton weaves an action/suspense story around his real agenda - a critique against the concept of global warming.  \\"State of Fear\\" is riddled with character dialogues which are thinly veiled debates on whether or not human-induced climate change is a reality.  The anti-global warming advocate (good guy) is always the clear winner, however the environmental types (bad guys) always come back for more, thus the set-up for another \\"debate.\\"  Frequently the bad guys become good guys as they \\"see the light.\\"  Just in case his message doesn't get through, Crichton includes two very convincing essays at the end, summarizing his thoughts.  He includes a bibliography of over 160 entries, including commentary on about a third of them.  Crichton's targets include not just global warming, but also the political science and cognitive psychology that he says leads to mass misinterpretation of the data.  The deluded include academics, environmental scientists, politicians, the media and well-meaning famous do-gooders.    Normally, scientists ignore challenges to their conclusions except from other scientists through peer-reviewed journals.  Because of Crichton's popularity as a novelist, and because this book is written so persuasively, several scientific groups have addressed Crichton's stated issues on the internet.  Some of these sites are found at Earth Institute News, 12-17-04;  RealClimate.org; and pewclimate.org.  I will try to briefly present both sides of some of these issues with the recommendation that reading this little super-abridged version does not really do the arguments justice.    1.  Crichton - Yes, the CO2 level in the atmosphere is rising, but not as fast as you predict, it's probably not important to climate anyway, and your computer models are worthless.      Scientists - the CO2 levels are rising faster than your assert because you cherry-picked your charts, and they ARE important in causing a global temp rise.  Discussions of climate model validations are common in the literature  and are accurate within 30%.  Various model comparisons. evaluations & validations are always ongoing.    2.  Crichton - sea levels have risen only 3 mm/year over the past decade.       Scientists - maybe not even that much, but \\"ability to identify increases in sea level rise at the present has no bearing on what will happen down the road.\\"    3.  Crichton - I have included charts in my book documenting that lots of areas are not rising in temp.  Therefore, the data is being misinterpreted.      Scientists - local conditions are extremely important in local temp change, not important in global temp change...and Crichton is cherry picking his data.    4.  Crichton - Scientist forecasted an imminent ice age in the 70's. Now they are changing camps.       Scientists - The scientific community did nothing of the sort on the 70's, but the popular media did.    5.  Crichton - Glaciers are not retreating because a) we don't have data for all the world's glaciers  b) we have long term data for even fewer glaciers  c) some glaciers are advancing.       Scientists - Those 3 items are true, but 90% of the glaciers being monitored are receding.  Of the 10% not receding, most are in Norway because of specific local conditions.    6.  Crichton - James Hansen's 1988 Congressional testimony presented an alarming scenario about CO2 rise which exceeded eventual reality by 300%, therefore you can't believe any of the projections made by environmental scientists.       Scientists - Crichton got his data from a distorted version of the hearings by a well-known global warming skeptic named Patrick Michaels.  He chose that guy's misrepresentation to include in his book.  Furthermore, his conclusion  cannot be generalized from the data.    There is quite a bit more, but this review is too long anyway.  About all I have included is the \\"he said - she said\\" stuff, whereas climate is an enormously complex subject, requiring a lot more reading to come to any sortof understanding.  As usual there are 2 sides to this debate, at least in the lay press.  Among scientists, there is very little debate about the reality of global warming, although there is lots of debate and conflict about various aspects of it.  Crichton is right that the overwhelming majority of scientist do not go along with his view.      Anyway, the story was just okay.	2005-06-02
US	16829939	R3VD7ISP8M8L2R	0385509863	53950277	Parallel Worlds: A journey through creation, higher dimensions, and the future of the cosmos	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Wormholes, Quarks, Symmetry and Kaku	I had to keep telling myself, \\"This is not science fiction; this is really what physics tells us through evidence!\\"  Proofs for the fantastic theories in this book come through mathematics, the language of physics.  If one does not speak the language, words have to suffice, but they are a very poor second.      The first revolution in cosmology began in the 1600's with the telescope, Copernicus, Kepler, Gallileo, and Newton, culminating in Newton's laws and the delineation of planetary motion.  The second revolution came with the great telescopes of the 20th century, Einstein, Hubble, Hoyle, Gamow, and \\"The Big Bang.\\"  This book is about the third revolution, beginning shortly before the new century, and is about discoveries from high tech instruments, satellites, lasers, gravity wave detectors, & supercomputers.  We can count on cosmology being heavily in the news during this decade and the decades to come.     I'm not a physicist, but I managed to make it through this superb book.  To anticipate how much trouble you might have, I suggest you peruse the helpful 20-page glossary.  If you have at least a vague idea of maybe a third of the entries, you will make it through the book.      The author attempts to reconcile his subject matter with God toward the end of the book.  He goes back and forth before ending up with a feel-good sort of \\"Gaia\\" or universal cosmic presence.  Some scientists have trouble being satisfied with the idea of \\"nothing\\" so they have to throw in \\"something.\\"  Daniel Dennett in \\"Darwin's Dangerous Idea\\" cleverly calls this malady a \\"Sky Hook.\\"    Anyway, for those brave enough to briefly leave the safe world of today and travel into the world of tomorrow, this is your book.  It's full of vibrating strings, worm holes and speculation.  Mark Twain once said, \\"There is something fascinating about science.  One gets such wholesale returns of conjecture out of such a trifling investment of facts.\\"  I don't know if that quote fits this book, but there are definitely too many fantastics \\"facts\\" in the Quantum world for me to fathom.  Perhaps if I knew more math...	2005-05-29
US	16829939	R1ARVMSJ9BR5J4	0452285216	857217799	Lies: And the Lying Liars Who Tell Them: A Fair and Balanced Look at the Right	Books	5	5	17	N	Y	Everyone is a Liar, A Fair & Balanced Review	From the time you got caught with your hand in the cookie jar at age 3...\\"Honey, are you taking that cookie I told you not to take?\\"...\\"No, Mommy\\" (while your hand is still in the jar)...to my grandson, who after eating his half of the fries last week, informed me that his tardy brother \\"didn't like fries\\"...and during all of humanity, people have learned to lie.  At a college party, researchers videoed the conversations, then isolated selected students and showed them the video.  The students had to admit, just during meaningless conversation, they lied an average of 50% of the time they spoke.  I forgot the real statistic, so I'm lying, but that's close.    In any event, lying is part of life, whether you're a death row felon or the Pope (sorry to break this to the Catholics).  The idea is to be the most convincing liar, and that means a liar who is so good at it, he has even deluded himself (He believes his own...well, you know what I mean).    Anyway, since I expect politicians (or anybody else) to lie, I feel guilty that I am not current on the specific lying situation in the highest levels of government, as I certainly should be.  I will say that whenever I do read or hear political statements on either side, I hear a lot more polemics than I think are represented in the general public.  Academic political scientists assure us that the good old US is hopelessly reddish-blue and centrist, even on abortion, sexual orientation, and other supposedly devisive issues.    Now that I got that out of the way, may I compliment Al Franken on his audio presentation, which was not only extremely funny, but (if he's not lying) very well researched.  I'll have to admit, even I realized after only seeing Hannity & Colmes once, that Colmes was pretty wimpy with his liberal rebuttals (not near as good a liar as Hannity).  Extrapolating from that controlled study of 1, the rest of Franken's inspired work MUST be true.	2005-05-25
US	16829939	R3I6P9CWFG5LU7	0060670843	336019156	A New Christianity for a New World: Why Traditional Faith Is Dying and How a New Faith Is Being Born	Books	4	19	26	N	Y	Perhaps a New Hobby?	Bishop Spong doesn't believe in the Bible as the inspired word of God.  He doesn't believe Jesus was born of a virgin, that he died in atonement for sin, or that he was physically resurrected from the dead.  He doesn't believe in salvation,  the second coming, or Hell, and is fuzzy about an afterlife.  He doesn't like church rituals, liturgy, the lyrics in church music...he doesn't even believe in God as a supernatural entity, and sees prayer as mere meditation.  So far I'm with him 100%.  I just want to know how he is going to make a religion out of this.      Like Bishop Spong, a lot of us are turned off by the dogma and ritual of traditional Christianity, but not everybody.  I do not predict the huge decline in traditional Christianity that he predicts, although I might welcome it.  Studies in anthropology and religion suggest that people are drawn toward religion in order to help them deal with things that are difficult to handle, such as personal disaster, death, and merely day to day living.  Science offers no help in these existential dilemmas.  The explosion of knowledge in science replaces the mystery of the unknown which helped create the gods.  For some, scientific knowledge at least partially negates the need for supernatural reassurance, but not for the majority.  To illustrate this point, might I refer to the popular beliefs in astrology and other forms of pseudoscience that pervade our culture.  No wonder there's still a church on every corner.    Even many, many scientists, no matter how reductionist their logical brains want to be, still go far out of their way to leave room for \\"sky hooks,\\" a term I think I stole from \\"Darwin's Dangerous Idea\\" - Daniel Dennett - meaning difficulty in giving up completely the idea of God.  Spong, it seems to me, fits into this category.  In his explanations as to why he is still a Christian and always will be, he seems to edge toward a \\"Gaia,\\" or maybe a Unitarian philosophy.    By the way, an absolutely outstandingcontribution to this book is the sermon on Church Creeds by Katie Ford leading off Chapter 14.  One more aside, I'll bet the Good Bishop has enjoyed Jefferson's Bible.  Thomas took a pair of scissors to the gospels and removed all the parts he didn't like - healings, Hell, etc., including only selected words of or about Jesus.    In any event, I enjoyed his book.  He writes in quite a conversational style and brings up valid points.  I particularly agree with him about fundamentalism.  If one goes down the block, across the nation, or around the world to each church, synagogue, mosque, or holy place, some fundamentalists of each theology may be found.  These sub-groups all have the annoying trait of claiming that their group alone, once and for all, has solved the great riddles of life.  It seems to me, amongst all that varied dogma, that there is only one way that any one of them or all of them can be right; that being the extent to which a group teaches a theology of tolerance and love.      Back to Bishop Spong's dilemma, however, I wonder why he doesn't just take up golf or watercoloring instead of going to church.	2005-05-24
US	16829939	R39JMRXU6V8I74	0156005050	95435903	Blameless in Abaddon	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	Author Puts God on Trial - Literally	I reviewed Morrow's first book in this series, \\"Towing Jehovah,\\" in which God's enormous body is found floating in the ocean.  The Pope arranges a secret proper burial in an ice vault in the North Pole.  I criticized Morrow for wasting numerous opportunities to more fully develop the religious conundrums he developed.      No such criticism is merited for this book.  In another wild tale with a new set of characters, God ends up being sold to the Baptists, who plant him in Orlando next to Disney World.  They are making tons of cash as believers show up by the hundreds of thousands to pay respects and/or be healed.  Enter our hero, Martin Candle, dying of prostate cancer, who somehow manages to get God put on trial by a world court in The Hague, Netherlands, for allowing evil to predominate in our world.    Fantasy prevails as our hero gets to discuss theodicy issues (Theodicy: a vindication of God with respect to the existence of evil) with Abraham, Isaac, The Ram, Noah, Jesus, Job, Satan, Adam, Eve and others.  With clever dialogue interspersed (INRI means \\"I'm not returning immediately\\"),  Morrow maintains an irreverent tone throughout the book.      Opening arguments for the prosecution:  ...\\"They said God was merciful, loving, and just...The prosecution intends to show that exactly the opposite is true...we shall prove that whatever debt we may owe the Defendant for our existence, He has continually acted in a fashion that must be called criminal...\\"    This paves the way for Morrow to present real arguments, carefully worked out over the centuries by great religious philosophers.  The defense attorney presents the equivalent opposing views.  The trial is a mini-course on the subject of theodicy for those who wish to be educated on this subject and builds lots of suspense toward the climax.    This inventive yarn shows considerable theological scholarship.  Warning: Fundamentalists who stick it out and finish this book may be offended by perceived \\"sacrilege,\\" and a few neurons and synapses may be singed in the \\"religion modules\\" of their brains.  First rate book!	2005-05-23
US	16829939	R2JPNVOG41S8WU	0684834936	667246406	Darwin's Black Box: The Biochemical Challenge to Evolution	Books	1	11	35	N	N	Behe Outsmarts Science	I must reluctantly admit, I was teetering on the brink of being seduced by Satan's evil theory of evolution.  Then I read Behe's inspired book, which ranks right up there with postmodernism in exposing science and its ridiculous reliance on evidence and the outdated fuddy duddy scientific method; instead of the Bible and other privileged sources.      None of my friends down at the Church of the Divine Sepulchre of Spiritual Holiness believe in that stupid ape story either.  Among the high spots in this fine book was the sensitive  support given in the bibliography to Santa Claus, Mother Goose, and the Stork.  Those 100% of Nobel prize winners and 99% of other scientists who believe evolution's hogwash are most certainly going straight to Hell on Darwin's Black Bus.  Top Notch!	2005-05-17
US	16829939	R146Z233S9XFFL	032127640X	739310666	Culture War? The Myth of a Polarized America (Great Questions in Politics Series)	Books	5	21	25	N	Y	The States and the Nation Are Bluish Red	The theme of this well-done book is summarized by one of their early graphs.  It is an upside down version of the Bell-Shaped Curve, used in a book of the opposing view to demonstrate that no one is in the middle.  The further you go toward either side on the x axis (I wish I could show the graph on Amazon), the more numbers accumulate on each periphery (creating the curve), thereby suggesting the country is polarized and deeply divided.  Our authors used the same data, flipped the graph over to its more familiar shape, showing that most Americans are centrists!    The introductory chapter states their simple thesis eloquently, as do all three of the excellent reviews found here on Amazon:  The supposed polarized culture is a myth, perpetuated by politicians and the media for their own purposes.  After the introductory chapter, several divisive issues (abortion, gay rights, etc.) have their own chapter for more careful analysis.  In each situation, academic analysis of the data shows the US has extreme opinions on each side, but the vast majority collect in the middle.      An interesting example recently is the attention given to the Terry Schievo case by the media and certain politicians.  In virtually every presentation, the media was dripping with emotion and sympathy, mostly for the parents.  Well, I guess they have to make a living.  Anyway, after over a week of this fiasco, I ran across one guy being interviewed who said to the press, \\"By the way, you do understand, don't you, that THOUSANDS of people die every day, in the United States, in exactly the same manner?\\"  Why did we not see a sixty minute special calmly considering both sides of this important ethical issue, instead of constant emotional bombardment.    One more comment:  Several times the authors of this fine book  mentioned an attention-grabbing statistic in support of the centrist tendencies of US citizens on a supposed polarizing issue, then added, \\"Of course, academians in political science are not surprised.\\"  The point here - there is a large gap between what academically accepted evidence shows and what is presented to us (shouted at us) by those who have vested interests in perpetuating the myth of a highly polarized US culture.  Great book!	2005-05-17
US	16829939	R3PJC45KWNMCI2	1570717087	580273029	The Complete Dream Book	Books	2	6	53	N	N	Dream are Entertaining, But Irrelevant	Why would people spend their lives obsessing over issues for which there is no objective evidence?  A cursory review of the literature about the mind will reveal that dreams are random and without predictive or any other kind of meaning.  Certainly dreams can be about stressful situations in one's life, but they will be mixed with all sorts of extraneous things, people and events that have no significance...viewed properly, they can provide good light entertainment.      Simply put, during consciousness the mind has an inhibition system that is activated so that cognition can proceed in an orderly fashion.  During sleep this system is shut off and all bets are off.  That's all there is to it!  I am tempted to give this book a 1, but will give it a 2 because I don't think she's trying to be deceitful.    For current info, see July '05 issue of the mag, \\"Scientific American Mind.\\"	2005-05-15
US	16829939	R1K0FTRB61US1Q	0226458075	89443239	The Structure of Scientific Revolutions	Books	2	19	34	N	N	Not the Landmark Book It's Supposed To Be	A friend who knew I liked science gave me this book.  It turns out he used it as supplementary material in a class he taught at one time.  I would have given it up after a chapter or two had I not been expected to render an opinion.  Here are my objections:<br /><br />Kuhn says empirical observations are always transformed by the \\"spectacles one's wearing\\"... by the \\"shared assumptions of one's peers.\\" Hmmm...well, yea...I think that's always a potential hazard.  Then he interpolates that interpretation of data is (by definition) an emotional event guided by mob bias...and that in science, truth is an optional and gratuitous concept.  Wow!  I wonder if he thought the science & technology involved in every inch of the commercial airliner he flies is optional and gratuitous.  Then he says, \\"Does it really help to imagine that there is some one full, objective true account of nature, and that the proper measure of scientific achievement is the event which brings us closer to that ultimate goal?\\"  I would say \\"yes!\\"  But Kuhn is more prone to think that science is nothing more than \\"a series of fads dressed up to look presentable.\\"<br /><br />In any endeavors involving humans, change is not usually easy, however, there are numerous examples both inside and outside of science that have caught on immediately.  Example: ski stops instead of straps, and the revolutionary change of thought about linguistics and about Skinner's behaviorist theory - after Chomsky's published work.  There are multitudes of ideas that plodded along and were accepted sort of \\"on schedule,\\" for situations that required controlled studies for documentation.  Example: acceptance of helicobacter as the cause of stomach ulcers.  Then there are examples that would seem more in line with Kuhn's theory.  Examples:  The unfortunate resistance and finally acceptance of tectonic plate theory, after decades of rejection.<br /><br />For objections other than the substance of Kuhn's book, it is difficult to read.  His sentences are way too long and complex, making speed-reading difficult.  As elaborated on by Einstein and Thomas Ockham, one should make an idea as simple as you can, but no simpler!  Furthermore, as good a coined word as \\"paradigm\\" might be, it needn't be used in every other sentence!<br /><br />In summary, there is merit to Kuhn's position as stated in this book, but it could have been stated in a couple of chapters in plain English.  The undeserved criticism of science methodology in this book is representative of postmodernistic thought...but it was readily welcomed by humanities departments in universities throughout the nature, anxious to gain legitimacy status equal to that of their neighboring science departments.  It is unduly critical of the single most important change that took us out of the Dark Ages: the use of the scientific method.  The fact is, even though the scientific method is performed imperfectly when administered by us humans, when the smoke clears, unworkable theories are left by the wayside and our total wealth of knowledge increases.  This book is not all it's cracked up to be.	2005-05-15
US	16829939	R25MLSK1VNU47X	1413434819	295888704	Atheist Universe	Books	5	600	657	N	Y	Brain Candy for the Non-Believer	This is simply an excellent book for those who share its views; or for anyone who has doubts and wonders what the \\"infidels\\" are thinking.  I don't think I noticed any negative reviews (I bought this book based on the reviews), but I really wouldn't expect any.  Most people wouldn't be caught dead reading a book with the word \\"atheist\\" in the title.  If any devout believer actually condescended to try it (like they were stranded on a desert island and there was nothing else to do), they would likely be quickly offended by the contents on any random page.  I'll bet not 1 out of 100 devout believers would finish this book.    Among the author's offerings are:  \\"Americans believe 58% to 40% that it is necessary to believe in God to be moral.  By contrast, only 13% of Europeans agree with the US view...I don't believe in God because I don't believe in Mother Goose (from Clarence Darrow)...I've always considered atheism to be a very positive philosophy in that, by eliminating a very burdensome obligation to appease a non-existent God, an individual thereby gains maximum freedom to choose his own goals and ideals for a satisfying life...(about public prayer in school) Let's remember that Jesus warned the Pharisees NOT to pray publicly because such prayers were usually pretentious, insincere efforts to showboat...My own observation is that those most terrified of death are not atheists, but believers, uncertain whether they are going to Heaven or Hell...Historically, whenever primitive man lacked scientific understanding of an observed event, he created a 'God of the Gaps' to fill the intellectual vacuum...The wider the gaps in scientific understanding, the greater the historic need for a miracle working 'GOTG'...As a general historic observation, each step forward taken by science has further distanced the hand of God from perceived intervention into natural events.  As humanity's gaps of knowledge were slowly replaced by scientific understanding, a GOTG found fewer and fewer caverns of intellectual darkness in which to live...Believers create the illusion of answered prayer by systematically employing the fallacy known as 'Selective Observation,' a perceptual error also referred to as 'Counting the hits and ignoring the misses.'...The more tragic the event - and the higher the body count - the more inclined are the media to feature 'Miracle Survivors' on the six o'clock news...When, however, everyone dies in a catastrophe, such as a Jumbo Jet crash, the newspaper headline never reads 'Jehovah Out To Lunch During Doomed Flight.'...In plain English, we don't know why specific individuals live or die in disasters.  We know that Christians are no more likely to survive than non-Christians; and the virtuous are just as likely to perish as thy corrupt...The Christian Church wholeheartedly believes this 'Divine' biblical prophecy, which announces that the vast majority of humanity will follow the wrong road in life and will, as a result end up in Hell instead of Heaven.  God - in his infinite wisdom - would have known in advance that most of humanity would have fallen victim to the gruesome torture chamber...a truely benevolent and omnipotent God would let bygones be bygones and forgive 'sinners' even though they adopted mistaken religious beliefs...But, Christians respond, 'without the shedding of blood, there can be no forgiveness of sin.  And God only asks that we accept the blood sacrifice that Jesus offered for us on the cross.'  And who, may I ask, established this rule that 'without the shedding of blood, there can be no forgiveness of sin'?  The answer, again, is God....The fact that God supposedly demands blood before He offers forgiveness is indicative of the bestial mindset of the primitive cultures extant when the Bible was written...The myth of Hell represents all the meanness, all the revenge, all the selfishness, all the cruelty, all the hatred, all the infamy of which the heart of man is capable...God was indeed created inman's own image...The two documents upon which our country was founded - ie, the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution of the United States contain not a single word about Christianity, Christian principles, the Bible, or Jesus Christ...The Christian clergy of the Revolutionary period tried again and again to have references to Christianity inserted directly into the US Constitution, but they were refused every time by the Founders.  Two 'Christian principles' may have indeed influenced the Founding Fathers.  One was the Puritan practice of executing witches, the other was King George III's absolute mandate that his subjects worship in a manner approved by the Church of England...Witch burning and mandatory church affiliation are only 2 of many issues which led the Founding Fathers to establish a 'Wall of Separation between Church and State,' allowing, at each citizen's discretion, freedom of religion or freedom FROM religion...The National Motto was not changed to 'In God We Trust' until 1956.  Likewise, the phrase 'under God' was not added to the Pledge of Allegiance until 1954.\\"    Please forgive all the quotes making this a long review, but there is so much here to agree with, it's hard to stop.  This book gives you a 50 yard line ticket to a comprehensive discussion of belief vs non-belief, yet is fun to read.  The chapter on Hell is great; the chapter on the origin of the universe and solar systems is among the best explanations I've ever read; the \\"Interview With an Atheist\\" chapter should become a classic; the quotes by famous men who are atheists are priceless; I LOVED the short chapter about the Founding Fathers, etc.    A very well deserved 5 stars for this book.	2005-05-09
US	16829939	R2RC4BXVODR5B7	0198507925	778263295	Magic Universe: The Oxford Guide to Modern Science	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	Calder Makes Current Science Come Alive	Nigel Calder is a lifelong science journalist.  He has spent 49 years explaining big scientific discoveries to the public, and is perhaps best known for his award winning science documentaries for BBC TV.    This book is an obvious labor of love consisting of 119 chapters in 705 pages, averaging 5.9 pages per entry.  I suspect he has written about most (if not all) of these subjects in the past, judging from the familiarity and ease with which he handles each item.  For $4.50 plus postage (used through Amazon) one could not find a better, cheaper science resource book.  Time and again after bringing us up to date in a given chapter, Calder tells us about new research, imminent plans for a new satellite or new technology which will exponentially increase our knowledge base within only a few short years.  In Nigel Calder's world, what an exciting time to be alive!    It will take a while, but I guarantee reading this book will be well worth your time.  \\"Magic Universe\\" can be read straight through (the chapters are in alphabetical order), each new subject being pot luck, or start anywhere you like.  At the end of any given chapter, you will be directed to 2-5 related chapters, thereby maintaining continuity in that particular field.    Calder is brilliant in the depth of his knowledge.  While presenting the inevitable scientific controversies, he does not hesitate to show his biases.  I approve of his license to do so and believe this quality of his writing adds color and vitality.      By the way, did you know that one of the naturally occuring forms of carbon has 20 hexagons and 12 pentagons, just like a soccer ball?  This little gem from the chapter \\"Buckyballs and Nanotubes\\" gained entry into a 10th grade chemistry paper my son was writing.      On a personal note, I have endeavored to increase my science literacy during the past 2 years.  One of the better books I started with was Bill Bryson's \\"A Short History of Nearly Everything.\\"  Calder's book is more complete, more knowledgeable, and is pure gold.  I do not have a higher recommendation for a mid-range comprehensive science book.  I believe if this book (and Bryson's) were somehow included with (or substituted for) the usual textual materials in high schools, there would be a significant increase in candidates for majors in science of all types in college.    Congratulations, Nigel Calder, on this superb effort.	2005-05-07
US	16829939	R18C7MNF29ML9H	080280294X	745543824	Lament for a Son	Books	5	57	57	N	Y	Finding Solace	Like most of the reviewers here, I'm a member of that exclusive club who lost a child.  I was given partial solace by leaders of the local chapter of Compassionate Friends which specializes in grief counselling.  All the leaders and participants have paid a huge price to join, but nothing monetary.  The glue holding it together is the loss of a child.<br /><br />This author must have received comfort in writing while passing the time...time in the short term is your enemy.  When enough time passes, the pain eases, although it never goes away.  In the early months it's hard to concentrate because the grief keeps popping up without permission.  I took solace in learning a few pieces on the piano which were way over my head, and doing an extensive photograph editing project about my lost child - a way for me to spend months making the time pass.  Our author grieved by writing down his thoughts.  My wife read lots of books on grief, but most of them were not my cup of tea.  I found an isolated book or passage now and then which connected with me, and I actively looked for them.  The usual grief counsellor doesn't have a clue, not from lack of sympathy or effort.<br /><br />  It's been 8 years now since my loss, so I'm not needy for solace, but I'm always ready to hear another man's story...and what a story this is.  This book is a day by day pouring out of expressions of grief done in an effort to heal that which can never be entirely healed.  I count it amongst those few books that would have been of benefit to me in the first year of my loss.  My sympathies go to the author and his family, and my sincere appreciation goes to him  for the sharing of his story.	2005-04-28
US	16829939	R3614LJMHFJLO3	0446604666	198501177	Sick Puppy	Books	4	2	4	N	Y	Geriatric Rhino Gores Pervert	This book offers the following list of characters:    1) A hero who is a one-man vigilante committee against littering - or any sort of anti-environmental activity.    2) A partially likeable litterbug bad guy who is a lobbyist totally lacking in scrouples.    3) A Republican hooker who is so indoctrinated and opinionated, she could fill in for Rush Limbaugh.    4) A governor who used to be a used car salesman, eventually owning several dealerships, and thinks he can make anyone like him.    5) A 6'6\\" former governor who has a glass eye, lives off roadkill, and sleeps in the swamp.    6) A hit-man who is obsessed with 911 tapes of people pleading for their lives right before they die, set to classical music.  He joins this exclusive club of 911 callers toward the end of the book, and his personal 911 tape is published.    7) A millionaire developer who has a pair of non-english speaking models who undergo plastic surgery to satisfy his obsession with Barbie Dolls.    8) A two-legged ocelot mascarading as a cheetah.    9) A geriatric rhinoceros who gores character #7 and tramples character #2, both bad guys who are trying to shoot him.    10) Other politicians, all of whom are crooked.    Despite the downside of all these boring characters, I could not put this book down and read it in one day.	2005-04-23
US	16829939	R3VNOQDBM2X6I9	0716733919	631517617	The Mammal in the Mirror: Understanding Our Place in the Natural World	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	The Authors Want You to Be Bioliterate	In the authors' words. \\"We aren't speaking here of existential angst, metaphysical speculation, or religious doctrine, but rather, of the nuts and bolts of everyone's shared biology...What we propose is to offer enough information, keeping it accurate and yet accessible, to enable every reader, regardless of background, to become bioliterate.\\"  In this, I think they succeed with the following caveat:  Those who are not already bioliterate might find some of the reading a bit tedious.    About Small Things:              Chapter 1: \\"Humans share about 90% of their DNA with the rest of the living world.\\"  This is an excellent 37 page essay summarizing the subject of DNA.         Chapter 2: Virology and more with emphasis on those diseases so much in the news - HIV, ebola, influenza, herpes, prions (mad cow disease), etc.         Chapter 3: All about cells, their organelles, their reproduction, their biochemistry, their immunology, cell-signalling, and a large section on cancer.  \\"It appears that many debilitating diseases whose courses had long been unknown are actually examples of pathological friendly fire.\\"  This is from an immune system with no parasites to combat.    About Larger Things:         Chapter 4: The Brain and Behavior...\\"You, your joys and your sorrows, your memories and your ambitions, your sense of personal identity and free will, are in fact no more than the behavior of a vast assembly of nerve cells and their associated molecules.\\" - Francis Crick...\\"The human mind, in short, is the result of nerve cells doing their thing, oozing miniscule droplets of chemicals and flashing tiny sparklets of electricity, prodding and tickling other nerve cells into similar action and in the process somehow generating thought and consciousness.  We agree with this astonishing hypothesis, and we think that by the time you've finished this chapter, you will, too.\\"         Chapter 5: All about sex from relevant evolutionary psychology findings to textbook explanationsabout the menstrual cycle.         Chapter 6: The best essay on nutrition you'll ever read - short on elaborate dietary schemes, long on facts, leptins, and concrete science.    About perspectives:         Chapter 7: You're in Sunday school for a well-done overview on ecology.         Chapter 8: \\"The theory of evolution is not in doubt; it is the bedrock upon which all of modern biology is based; the grand unifying theory of life, confirmed again and again by nearly every biological fact that is uncovered...Evolution by natural selection is an elegantly simple solution to the question of why life is as it is, with the added advantage of being right.  But please don't look to it for ethical guidance.\\"         Chapter 9: Sociobiology (more often called evolutionary psychology)...\\"even the Catholic Church has made its peace with evolution, including human evolution.\\"  Barash includes occasional entertaining scientific anecdotes such as this one about the \\"Coolidge Effect.\\"  The story goes that President Calvin Coolidge and his wife were separately touring a model farm.  When Coolidge was shown the chickens, the guide mentioned, \\"Mrs. Coolidge wants you to be told that this rooster mates many times each day.\\"        \\"Always with the same hen?\\" asked Cal.       \\"No, sir!\\" replied the guide.       \\"Please tell Mrs. Coolidge THAT,\\" said the president.  The Coolidge effect then, refers to the fact that even the most jaded male sexual appetite tends to perk up at the prospect of a new sexual partner.  This has been confirmed for nearly all mammals, including humans.  Nothing comparable applies to female mammals, including women.  More ludicrously said, \\"hogomous higgamous, men are polygamous, higgamous hogomous, girls are monogamous.\\"    As Gilbert and Sullivan put it, \\"Darwinian man, though well-behaved, at best is only a monkey shaved.\\"  A number of respected, well-recognized authors are listed in \\"recommended readings.\\"  Without a doubt, the reader of this book will achieve greater bioliteracy.  Highly recommended!	2005-04-21
US	16829939	R2PV11H469SHEI	0465006965	262036966	Religion Explained: The Evolutionary Origins of Religious Thought	Books	5	11	13	N	Y	Religion uses existing mental processes;  no "God Module"	In this ground-breaking book, Boyer comprehensively explains religion from an evolutionary point of view.  He says every religion has these common features:<br /><br />1) A supernatural agent who takes a specific ontological form (animal, tree, human, etc.)<br />2) There is something memorably different about this agent (the animal talks, the tree records human conversations, the human is born of a virgin, etc.), which is an ontological violation.<br />3) This agent knows strategic information and can use that information for or against you.<br /><br />\\"Evolution by natural selection gave us a particular kind of mind so that only particular kinds of notions can be acquired...Some concepts, like that of an invisible person with great interest in our behavior are widespread the world over, but others that don't fit the pattern are rare.\\"  Many, many ideas are discarded and those few that are left channel down into these limited possibilities.<br /><br />Boyer quotes Voltaire: \\"Were cockroaches to have a notion of God, they would probably imagine Him as a very big and powerful cockroach.\\"<br /><br />About Strategic Information: \\"What is important to human beings, because of their evolutionary history, are the conditions of social interaction: who knows what, who is not aware of what, who did what to whom, when, and what for.  Imaginary agents with that information is an illustration of mental processes driven by relevance.\\"<br /><br />About Morality: \\"Far from religion supporting morality, as we might think, our intuitive moral thinking makes some religious concepts easier to acquire, store, and communicate to others...the concepts are parasitic in the sense that their successful transmission is greatly enhanced by mental capacities that would be there, gods or no gods.\\"<br /><br />About Organized Religion: If a given society gets big enough, representatives of religion will create a hierarchy, which will try to gain influence with the government.  A somewhat different dogma will develop and the priests will be extremely resistant to change.  Charismatic leaders, revered in the beginning, will be frowned upon.<br /><br />Boyer says \\"The intractable mystery that was religion is now just another set of difficult but manageable problems.\\"  He lists the usual suggestions for religions' origins: human minds demand explanations, human hearts seek comfort, human society requires order, human intellect is illusion-prone, etc.  In each case, he expands on the usual explanation, adding that, \\"as explanations, they're not bad,\\"  then asks, \\"but what's wrong with these accounts?\\"  Following will be an eye-opening explanation that starts with cognitive function and inference systems rather than starting with religion.  If Thomas Huxley had been alive to read this book, perhaps he would have said, \\"How stupid of me not to have thought of that,\\" as he did upon his first exposure to \\"Origin of the Species.\\"<br /><br />Along the way, Boyer treats us to ideas about death, rituals, supernatural ideas you haven't heard of and inside information about religious beliefs of certain primitive tribes.  In a nutshell, human evolution left us with multiple inference systems which left us susceptible to lots of parasitic ideas, religion amongst them.  There are many, many excellent reviews on this superb book.  I suggest that you read them all for a mini-education, and then read the book.<br /><br />A Well-Deserved FIVE STARS!!!esistant to change.  Charismatic leaders, revered in the beginning, will be frowned upon.      Boyer says \\"The intractable mystery that was religion is now just another set of difficult but manageable problems.\\"  He lists the usual suggestions for religions' origins: human minds demand explanations, human hearts seek comfort, human society requires order, human intellect is illusion-prone, etc.  In each case, he expands on the usual explanation, adding that, \\"as explanations, they're not bad,\\"  then asks, \\"but what's wrong with these accounts?\\"  Following will be an eye-opening explanation that starts with cognitive function and inference systems rather than starting with religion.  If Thomas Huxley had been alive to read this book, perhaps he would have said, \\"How stupid of me not to have thought of that,\\" as he did upon his first exposure to \\"Origin of the Species.\\"    Along the way, Boyer treats us to ideas about death, rituals, supernatural ideas you haven't heard of and inside information about religious beliefs of certain primitive tribes.  In a nutshell, human evolution left us with multiple inference systems which left us susceptible to lots of parasitic ideas, religion amongst them.  There are many, many excellent reviews on this superb book.  I suggest that you read them all for a mini-education, and then read the book.    A Well-Deserved FIVE STARS!!!	2005-04-18
US	16829939	R10C2SBALDLKU9	0071379444	858546967	Dealing with People You Can't Stand: How to Bring Out the Best in People at Their Worst	Books	5	16	19	N	Y	You Have to Change Your Response First	I saw an opportunity to apply a technique from this book on my 16 yr old for an event that was potentially a daily problem.  It immediately worked and I have not had that problem with him since.  Most of the interpersonal problems I see at home or in the work place are really kind of petty and involve<br />  1) Misunderstanding the other person's motives<br />  2) No effective plan to clear the air<br />The two Ricks offer us simple ways to address the issue.  In the process, one gains insight into what the other person was thinking and how the affair got out of hand.  In every case, the techniques involve confrontation, but controlled, minimally threatening, and supportive to the behavior-impaired party.<br /><br />The secret to handling difficult people, as pointed out in the book, is a modification in your response to their behavior, i.e., the initial change has to be yours!  In some cases, they can be totally disarmed quite easily by the right words.<br /><br />Some of the \\"caricatured\\" examples in the Ricks' book are sick and would just require too much maintenance and/or a referral to a psychiatrist.  Real crazies are not going to give up whatever wierd secondary gains they're getting from their idiotic methods.  Even those, however, would be at least temporarily susceptible to the empathetic & helpful confrontational yet supportive techniques this book offers.<br /><br />Since everyone usually possesses at least a few of these 10 difficult personality characteristics to some degree, it's hard not to see yourself in this book.  This was appropriately humbling for me and I am finding myself to be more tolerant of others.  What more can you ask of a self-help book?	2005-04-08
US	16829939	R19EU16CRDLRWN	0310205719	36906356	The Purpose Driven Life	Books	2	14	24	N	N	A Book on Self-Deception	How does one ascertain God's purpose for them, according to this book?  Well, one way is prayer and/or meditation.  You get off by yourself and pray for guidance.  The vast majority of people who pray don't actually hear answers in an auditory fashion.  This would be called an auditory hallucination;  they're more likely to develop a feeling.  Sometimes it can be a strong feeling, and they might ask for a sign to confirm that feeling.  Considering the thousands of small events and social exchanges that occur in a given day for any one person, it would be surprising if something that fit the bill did not occur, for someone anxiously looking for spiritual confirmation.  Rarely are the workings of the mind considered, with its propensity for fooling itself.      The more spiritual amongst us, especially the fundamentalists, live their lives in a world of faith and the supernatural based on these very subjective feelings, for which not a shred of evidence exists.  The least spiritually inclined might go along with Scot Atran, who says, \\"Religion is a community's costly and hard-to-fake commitment to a counterfactual and counterintuitive world of supernatural agents who master people's existential anxieties, such as death and deception.\\"    In any event, I'll have to give Mr. Warren an A for his well thought out presentation for the benefit of those who are undoubtedly helped by this approach.  There are definite psychological benefits to going through life with your \\"special friend\\" at your beck and call, knowing that you have a personal relationship with the creator of the universe.      On the other hand I must downgrade him significantly for this same fantasy oriented approach loaded with predestination ideas.  There are lots of self-help books out there for those who don't feel the allure of the supernatural and are not terrified by the threat of an eternity in Hell.  Better  approaches are available for those who believe, as I do, that a purposeful, fulfilling lifeis related to self-reliance, and can be as good or as bad as you decide to make it.	2005-04-07
US	16829939	R13R86OT9SEAAT	0670894303	957185241	Einstein in Love: (A Scientific Romance)	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	Albert: The Romantic Physicist	While separated from wife #1, Mileva, Albert wrote to her a completely one-sided contract of reconciliation (p 267).  When she accepted his terms, he backed out because she didn't show proper appreciation for his \\"generous\\" offer.  During this time, he was having an affair with Elsa (eventual 2nd wife), but this was muddied when he also fell in love with Elsa's daughter, Ilse.  Being a little more wishy-washy in romance than he was in physics, he let the women work it out as to who he was going to marry!  They decided on Elsa.  Many years later, Elsa allowed him to carry on an affair twice a week with a certain woman as long as he remained chaste otherwise.  As Albert wrote in a poem to a friend, \\"the upper half thinks and plans, but the lower half determines our fate.\\"    Thanks to Overbye's superb research, we are presented with a history of Albert (as the author always calls him) directly from letters and documents mostly written by Einstein himself.  Not by any means limited to his romantic life, we are treated to an in-depth discussion of how he worked his physics out.  For example, far from isolated while a patent clerk in his miracle year of 1905, he was actively corresponding with several other physicists, editing scientific journals and conducting \\"think tanks\\" about theoretical physics with friends, including wife #1, Mileva.  Most of his adult life, he conducted an active social life centered around these think tanks with revolving membership, sometimes involving entertaining others with his excellent violin playing, and frequently women.  When he landed his first teaching job, he was unpleasantly surprised by the time and effort it took to compose a decent a comprehensible set of lectures.  He toiled conscientiously over his talks, eventually becoming a sought after keynote speaker who would lecture two hours daily for several days at prestigious conventions about subjects involving aspects of relativity.    Overbye has written a brilliantly insightful book that brings into focus Albert's creative and unique approach to physics along with his sometimes \\"teen-ager in love\\" approach to romance.  Scattered throughout the book are first hand looks at many famous scientists of the day, including other Nobel prize winners in their correspondence and first hand interactions with the charming Einstein.  If I must criticize this book, it does seem to end rather abruptly, and covers the last 25 years of his life in very few pages.  Perhaps another book is lurking in Overbye's mind for these years, for which there are undoubtedly volumes of more correspondence from the prolific Albert Einstein.  A very enthusiastic 5 stars for this exhilarating read.	2005-04-06
US	16829939	R2BNK8QQU05A27	0807077143	664277798	The Jefferson Bible	Books	5	60	69	N	Y	The Teachings OF Jesus, not  ABOUT Jesus	Thomas Jefferson (TJ) thought very highly of Jesus as a philosopher but he had no use for the dogma of Christianity as developed by those evangelists (as epitomized by Paul) who followed Jesus.  He believed the writers of the New Testament to be uneducated; delivering word of mouth, fabricated and exaggerated information decades after the fact, and did not consider any of it to be inspired by God.  With encouragement from others, including John Adams, he decided to \\"reorganize\\" the New Testament, deleting the objectionable parts, leaving only the teachings of Jesus.      TJ did this twice - once when he was in the White House, spending only 2 or 3 nights on it after doing his routine daily correspondence - and the more definitive version which we have here, when he was 76, about 1820.  Since TJ considered anyone's faith to be a private affair, it's not clear whether he ever expected publication.  There are hints that he went to some efforts to avoid public knowledge of at least the first version, probably because the more vocal of his opponents already reviled him as an infidel too impious to be president, and a theological heretic.    TJ's Bible, only 46 pages, ended up being a rearrangement of the gospels only, excluding any parts he didn't like - virgin birth, miracles, resurrection, and dogma developed by first century Christians.  TJ, in a letter to Benjamin Rush describing his planned redaction of the Gospels, said only, \\"I have a view of the subject which ought to displease neither the rational Christian nor Deist.\\"  While contemplating his redaction, he wrote, \\"There will be found remaining the most sublime and benevolent code of morals which has ever been offered to man.  I have performed this operation for my own use, by cutting verse by verse out of the printed book, and by arranging the matter which is evidently his, and which is as distinguishable as diamonds in a dunghill.\\"    In the second century, Titian wrote the \\"Diatessaron,\\" an attempt to combineand harmonize the four gospels.  It enjoyed semi-canonical standing in the Syriac Christian church for centuries. Thomas Friedman has written two books about the Documentary Hypothesis, making the Torah (first five books of the Old Testament) a redaction of several ancient writers.  TJ was not the first to attempt improvements on either Testament of the Bible.    Careful review of TJ's Bible reveals that it was difficult for him to get rid of all he despised and yet keep all that he liked. Good works were so interspersed with miracles that one could not get rid of the miracle without lessening the value of the moral lesson.    To quote from the book, \\"Like other Enlightenment rationalists, TJ was convinced that the real villain in the Christian story was the apostle Paul, who had corrupted the religion OF Jesus into a religion ABOUT Jesus, which thus had, in combination with the otherworldly outlook of the 4rth gospel, produced the monstrosities of dogma, superstition, and priestcraft which were the essence of Christian orthodoxy.  The essence of authentic religion, and therefore of the only kind of Christianity in which TJ was interested, needed to be rescued from these distortions, so that the true person and teachings of Jesus of Nazareth might rise from the dead page - the only kind of resurrection TJ was prepared to accept.\\"    If this book is to be believed, at least between 1904 and 1956, a copy of the Jefferson Bible was given to each US Senator upon inauguration.  As much as TJ believed in separation of church and state, I wonder what he would have thought of this practice.    I can highly recommend this little book.  It has not only a  readable version of the gospels (uniquely shuffled), but a pre-commentary and post-commentary which give a superb view of TJ's religious views.	2005-03-28
US	16829939	R1OFBZ7SOLTBWR	0767908171	997649583	A Short History of Nearly Everything	Books	5	8	11	N	N	Short  entertaining bio's of 500 scientists	Bill Bryson is not a scientist; he's a journalist.  He is well known for a series of highly successful books on travel, backpacking, and language.  One day while admiring the earth from 40,000 feet on a commercial flight, he got to thinking about how little he knew about our planet.  \\"I didn't know a protein from a proton...So I decided I would devote a portion of my life to finding out how the universe works.\\"  Bryson read voraciously and apprenticed himself to a host of willing profound scientific minds from all over the world, covering every aspect of science.      There are a little over 500 names of scientists in the index (I counted them).  Bryson's modus operandi is to give the big picture by telling fun stories about the main characters - hence his succession of mini-biographies of famous and not-so famous scientists.  Most of the stories are told from the point of view of those researchers who did the work.  Some are told from the point of view of who got the credit.  Sometimes (all too often) they are not the same person.  Bryson must know that homo sapiens thrive on good gossip, because there is plenty here for the most addicted soap opera freak.      It took Bryson 3 years to come up with this book and it is indeed a masterpiece.  He manages to take subjects of immense complexity and render them comprehensible to the lay reader.  That, it seems to me, is the strongest selling point among this book's many assets.    I first listened to this book on abridged audio, some of it twice.  Bryson's audio (spoken by Bryson) was a perfect start for my own efforts at filling the scientific void in my brain.  After the audio, I read the book and found that no more than 10%-15% is missing from the abridged version.  This book is pure gold and I do not have a higher recommendation for any other introductory to mid-range science book.  I believe that if this book was used as a co-text in some way in high schools, there would be a significant increase in candidates formajors in science of all types in college.    Congratulations, Bill Bryson, on your superb effort.	2005-02-28
US	16829939	R2MAS43KI86I7P	0195149300	282638218	In Gods We Trust: The Evolutionary Landscape of Religion (Evolution and Cognition Series)	Books	5	67	72	N	N	The Mickey Mouse Problem	NOT FOR THE THEOLOGICALLY SENSITIVE!    Atran describes religion as       (1) a community's costly and hard-to-fake commitment   (2) to a counterfactual and counterintuitive world of supernatural agents   (3) who master people's existential anxieties, such as death and deception.    Later in the book he adds that 1, 2, & 3:  (4) demand ritualistic & rhythmic co-ordination of 1, 2, & 3 such as \\"communion.\\"    He later describes religion (paraphrased by me) as a thought process which involves exaggerated use of everyday cognitive processes to produce unreal worlds that easily attract attention, are readily memorable, and are subject to cultural transmission, selection and survival.    THEN, HE ASKS, \\"HOW IN PRINCIPLE, DOES THIS VIEW DISTINGUISH   MICKEY MOUSE OR FANTASY FROM BELIEFS ONE IS WILLING TO DIE FOR?\\"    While sprinkled with interesting and provocative comments, Atran tries to show that cognitive modules exist, thanks to natural selection.  The tendency to invent supernatural agency is an evolutionary by-product, trip-wired by predator-detection schema...people interactively manipulate the universal cognitive susceptibility.  Add a few hopeful solutions to the problems involving the tragedies of life and death, and you get religion.    Alternate theories of religion's ability to sprout and fluorish wherever humans have lived for any length of time are discussed and rejected.  These include \\"memes\\" for religion, \\"group selection\\" for religion, cultural entrees, and others.    While myriad types of gods have been invented, Atran maintains they all end up as described in the 1st few lines of this review.  He offers an analogy of mountain ridges and their many precipitation routes, ending in always the same few major waterways.  In the middle of the book is a photo section of various religious relics, including a photo of the \\"Nunbun.\\"  This cinnamon bun became famous, and really does look like Mother Theresa!    He ends with the thought (and I concur) that religion will always be with us because there is no other system that gives humanity solace from the tragedies that beset daily life...with some brands even promising the bonus of an afterlife - only, of course, if you follow the prescribed tenets.      This is the first book I have ever read that espoused such openly irreligious ideas.  I thoroughly enjoyed reading someone else's formulated ideas, which were so close my own unformed thoughts.  I LOVED THIS BOOK!!!    Disadvantage:  As excellent as this book is, I would have enjoyed it more had Atran made an effort to make it more readable and less technical.  It reads as if parts may have been intended for his learned peers rather than the general public.	2005-02-25
US	16829939	R3A9A43D1QCC50	0618335404	851888004	A Devil's Chaplain: Reflections on Hope, Lies, Science, and Love	Books	5	23	24	N	N	Love Letters to Science and Rationality	Three Cheers!!!    This isn't merely a collection of essays from an esteemed old friend - it's a comprehensive review of the natural (and scientific) way of experiencing our world...\\"We already know that our senses are easily deceived...the lessons that conjurors, the honest variety and the imposters, teach us is that an uncritical faith in our own senses is not an infallible guide to truth.\\"  Here is the place for evidence, and eventually the scientific method.  \\"Evolution gave us a brain whose size increased to the point where it became capable of understanding its own provenance, of deploring the moral implications and of fighting against them.\\"  Here is his advocacy of a system of ethics to deal with our evolved amoral tendencies.  Some of the most beautiful prose I've ever read is the letter to his daughter, titled \\"Good and Bad Reasons For Believing.\\"  His take home message - show me the evidence.  Elsewhere, he relates an interviewer pushing Carl Sagan for a premature answer.  Asked, \\"But what is your gut feeling,\\" Sagan replied, \\"I try not to think with my gut.\\"    Dawkins visits several old friends.  His writings involving S. J. Gould are GREAT fun to read!!  Gould was a colorful character and colleague who Dawkins frequently sparred with publicly.  Dawkins comments on some semi-resolutions, some non-resolutions, and some \\"this shouldn't have been an issue anyway\\" items, and is not to be missed.    For the hard-core computer geek, this is a gold mine:  \\"The genetic code is truly digital, in exactly the same way as computer codes.  This is not some vague analogy, it is the literal truth.  Moreover, unlike computer codes, the genetic code, with a few minor exceptions, is identical in every living creature, from sulfur bacteria to giant redwood trees, from mushrooms to men...the present Luddism (fear of technology) over genetic engineering may die a natural death as the computer-illiterate generation is superseded.\\"    For those who just prefer a light-heartedgood time, turn to the chapter on postmodernism.  Along with other morsels of gaity, Alan Sokal's hoax on the \\"cultural studies\\" area of postmodernism is presented.  Sokal wondered if he could write a paper bad enough so that any college physics student would become hysterical with laughter, but good enough so that a leading postmodernist periodical would publish it.  Unfortunately for the \\"Social Text,\\" the answer was yes.      Now...ahem, about religion.  Yes, Dawkins takes his patented \\"no prisoners\\" approach.  \\"To describe religion as mind viruses is sometimes interpreted as contemptuous or hostile.  It is both...as a lover of truth, I am suspicious of strongly held beliefs that are unsupported by evidence:  fairies, unicorns, werewolves...the alleged convergence between (science and religion) is a shallow, empty, spin-doctored sham.\\"  There are 4 1/2 chapters with nothing but well-thought out comments on religion.  Other phrases, lines and paragraphs of like thought are scattered throughout the book.  Dawkins is one of the first authors I read who verbalized my own attitudes about religion.  Since my early life was Baptist and I am still surrounded by conservative thinkers, these writings are like an oasis in the desert.  Whatever one's belief, it seems to me the opposition should know what Dawkin's group is saying and why they're saying it.      I LOVED this book!!!    5 Enthusiastic Stars!!!	2005-02-16
US	16829939	R2VWJDH80XNHHC	0060630353	192773485	Who Wrote the Bible?	Books	5	16	18	N	Y	The Documentary Hypothesis	If you like mysteries...if you love the suspense of being enticed to the next page to find out whodunit...if you want to know more about the Torah...this book is for you!!  But the sly suspect has not committed a murder.  He is the one responsible for the way the Old Testament (particularly the Torah) lines, verses and chapters are mingled together...sometimes making for choppy reading.      Here's the short version:  \\"J\\" wrote a the story representative of South Judean interests.  \\"E\\" wrote the same story reflecting Northern Israel's interests.  When the North and South united, the Priests in charge could not get rid of either well known document, so he (they) wrote \\"P\\", making the story more to his (their) liking.  King Josiah \\"took charge\\" at age 8.  Because of his age, he was heavily influenced by the priests.  After he attained adulthood, the main priest conveniently found \\"D\\" (mainly a set of laws) which so impressed the young king that he had the whole tome read aloud to the masses.      All these sources and editions were put together by an editor, called the \\"Redactor\\" into the final 5-book work.  Who was he?  You'll have to read the book to find out!!!      Evidence for this elaborate theory consists of differences in linguistics, terminology, content, narrative flow, connections with other parts of the Bible, relationships among the sources to each other and to history, and convergence (several different lines of evidence converge).  This data is fascinating, well-presented and quite convincing.  When each source is read individually, the continuity improves in a striking fashion.  But where in the world would you find a Bible coded in this way?  Easy!  Buy the Bible translated and color coded by sources by this same author in \\"The Bible With Sources Revealed.\\"    The Documentary Hypothesis, which this book is based upon, was conceived in the late 1800's, developed and added upon by numerous scholars, and finally compiled by Wellhausen.  \\"Julius Wellhausen (1844-1918) stands out as a powerful figure in the investigation into the authorship of the Bible and in the history of biblical scholarship in general...His model of the combination of the source documents came to be known as the Documentary Hypothesis.  It has dominated the field ever since.\\"    The Documentary Hypothesis is taught in Christian seminaries and Jewish Rabbinical schools throughout the world.  Friedman has written a landmark book making this knowledge readily available to the general public.  \\"Who Wrote The Bible?\\" and its companion \\"Bible With Sources Revealed\\" are both powerful presentations. Five enthusiastic stars!!	2005-02-16
US	16829939	R1X9ZOTE8O3W25	0609802224	567759180	Stealing Jesus: How Fundamentalism Betrays Christianity	Books	4	24	28	N	N	A Vote For Tolerance	Mr. Bawer makes a distinction between those Christians who want to emphasize God's love (\\"there ain't no Hell\\" group) and those who want to emphasize God's law (\\"the hell there ain't\\" group).  I think fundamentalists of all brands are ripe for exposure and that Bawer raises some very valid points.  Most fundamentalists that I know are quite nice people.  Unfortunately, when idealism gathers in groups, a mob tends to form, regardless of the dogma.  A large enough mob can start a war.      If one goes down the block, across the nation, or around the world to each church, synagogue, mosque or holy place, some fundamentalists of each theology may be found.  Each sub-group has the irritating habit of thinking that their group alone, once and for all, has solved the great riddles of life.  It seems to me, amongst all that varied dogma, there is only one way any one of them or all of them can be right; that being the extent to which a group teaches a theology of tolerance and love.	2005-02-11
US	16829939	R2F10NSWJLXBZQ	074320011X	423914902	Parasite Rex: Inside the Bizarre World of Nature's Most Dangerous Creatures	Books	5	12	14	N	Y	The Gospel According to Parasites	In the beginning there were hydrothermal vents, and it was said, \\"let there be life.\\"  And life was formed and it was good.  But life was lonely, so it was said, \\"let there be parasites.\\"  But the parasites smote much of the other life akin to a great flood sweeping across the land.  After 40 days and 40 nights, life and the new parasitic life form began to play the arms race game of the Red Queen and that was good.  And other life begat more other life through cloning of their DNA's, but reproduction through cloning once again allowed  parasites to gain dominion over the land and the seas, so other life invented immunology and other life invented sex, in self defense.  And so it went.    And it came to pass that there were many other life forms, but none existed without parasites, and no parasites existed without them, and the battle of the Red Queen escalated and flowed, lacking much ebb.  As a parasite gained dominance over one species, other species proliferated, providing separation and new speciation.  The peacock grew seemingly unnecessary featherages, the bower birds built elaborate seduction altars, and all the creatures created pecking orders and heirarchies.  And so it went.      And it came to pass the parasites evolved elaborate life cycles involving different life forms and serial hosts.  In each host they cast spells akin to \\"better living through chemistry.\\"  Some intermediate hosts became mere parasite hotels - hypnotized into helping the parasite find its next host.  The more vicious parasites, in error, killed their hosts; thereby, they also died.  The wiser ones preferred slavery, i.e., how to get the most use and nutrition out of their host without killing it.  Both the parasites and their able hosts went to absurd extremes, each trying to outwit the other, in building Rube-Goldberg defense strategies.  One minor two-legged (called \\"human\\") species went to such ridiculous extremes as to evolve elaborate cognition in order to best the parasites.They became so bright, they figured many things out about their world, yet these upright walkers were still not cognizant of the prominent role parasites had played in human evolution, and their dominance.  Alas, for every member of their bigger group, mammals, there were thousand of groups of parasites.  The parasites had come to make up the majority of the creatures on earth.  And so it is.    And the creatures that multiply across the face of the earth continue to thrive.  And the hydrothermal vents who observe all of the Red Queen game say, \\"it is good,\\" and they don't rest.	2005-02-06
US	16829939	R23KUUOMMT6EG6	0803279957	188392745	The Sokal Hoax: The Sham That Shook the Academy	Books	5	25	29	N	Y	The Pomo Emperor Has No Clothes	This isn't just a book about a brilliant hoax.  It's also an introductory course on pomo (AKA postmodernism, poststructuralism, postconstructionism), a collection of heated newspaper and magazine editorials about ethics, philosophy, science, and college curriculum, and an expose of how the Emperor reacts when He is found to have no clothes.    Early in 1994, Alan Sokal, a physicist from NYU, read a book called \\"Higher Superstitions.\\"  This book by Gross & Levitt brought to a head Sokal's irritation at a certain postmodern faction within the academic community that he saw as challenging standards of logic, truth and intellectual inquiry.  Could he possibly write an article bad enough to be obvious nonsense to any undergraduate physics student, yet good enough to get published in a leading pomo periodical?  Unfortunately for the members of the screening committee for \\"Social Text,\\" the answer was \\"yes.\\"    The article itself is presented in chapter I.  It caters to agendas of pomo authorities rather then relying on logic, drips with unreadable prose, and has mistaken claims about scientific theories.  It includes an illogical train of thought but offers lots of apple-polishing to the gurus it parodies.  Sokal says, \\"The fundamental silliness in my article lies in the dubiousness of its central thesis and in the 'reasoning' adduced to support it.  Basically, I claim that quantum gravity has profound political implications.\\" When Sokal realized his article was going to be published, he began writing his expose of the hoax. They were published in different magazines on the same day.    Ideally, perhaps \\"Social Text\\" would have admitted their error, issued a congratulatory statement to Sokal, and notified the public that they were immediately tightening up their article evaluation process.  Instead, they whined about being sabotaged and called Sokal \\"poorly educated, too male, too nerdy, and naughty.\\"  They did the best they could but this turd was hard to polish.     After the publication of the \\"hoax of the decade,\\" the press had a field day.  The book continues with editorials from over 40 United States contributors and 9 from Europe and Brazil.  The very first respondent was Alan Sokal, followed by Robbins and Ross, representing \\"Social Text.\\"  In the process of reading the reviews, I got an education on postmodernism and cultural studies, many of whose advocates roasted Sokal.  The Scientist community, by and large, roasted \\"Social Text\\" and postmodernists.  Physicist Steven Weinberg wrote a great essay where he discussed in detail each item of erroneous physics served up in Sokal's article.      For a nice read and a chance to see both sides presented on an important issue, I can highly recommend this excellent book.	2005-02-03
US	16829939	R1UEOL5JT4FZT2	1594111111	474521567	Unfair & Unbalanced: The Lunatic Magniloquence of Henry E. Panky	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	A General  Absence of Free Will	Henry isn't sure why at age 15 he bought the John Denver album.  He continues, \\"Let's chalk it up to raging pubescent hormones, psychotropic drugs at too early an age, too many Herman Hesse books, a compromised decision making capacity, and a general absence of free will.\\"    Well, I don't know why I think it's so funny when he makes fun of John Denver, especially since I've always liked his music, but it is funny.  Pubescent hormones?  Yes, neurobiology tells us they'll make us crazy...psychotropic drugs at an age perhaps earlier than 15?...whew...too many Herman Hesse books?  Well, I read them all in my mid-twenties, and several of Louis Lamour's, but the Hesse entry does work nicely.  The last one - general absence of free will - blew me away! - one side of an ever current philosophical enigmatic question thrown in following a bunch of unrelated one-liners which strangely enough make a coherent and hilarious sentence.    To a conservative political pundit, Panky says, \\"Darling Ann, my winsome hyena, how I yearn to slip the tough leather straps over your slavering muzzle and ride you like a gaucho through the befouled and slippery charnel house of your political desires.\\" Wow!  This sentence paints quite a picture for a guy like me who doesn't really understand poetry.  Continuing...\\"Your saccharine sophistries reek (italics) of an utterly Faustian and silver-tongued sodomy of the human spirit.\\"  I don't think he likes her.    Tongue in cheek he deprecates himself: \\"Even utter strangers naturally sense my Ivy League roots.  Those lustrous days spent upon the mountain peak of academe, bathed in the brilliant light of reason, breathing in the high, Rocky mountain spring water of purest intellect, have imbued a certain effulgent je ne sais quoi (italics) deep into my very marrow.  It's who I am.  You might as well try to hide the Koih-noor diamond under a cheap thrift store merkin.\\"    Well, okay, I have to keep the English and French dictionaries handy, and several trivia books.  When I understand most of the servings, I feel proud.  By the way, these examples from the book weren't exactly cherry-picked.  When I came across the \\"free will\\" comment, I decided I had to write a review.  The other 2 selections were just short enough, had not been mentioned in other reviews, and were found in the next 7 pages.    This book is an introduction to a new way of perceiving our world, the Hank E. Panky way.  If you are tired of the same old mundane books...if you have memorized the self-help book by your commode...Try a little Hank E. Panky, and I predict a satisfied customer.  I can't wait to get my hands on his next book.	2005-02-02
US	16829939	R1JGYQNNXLR1IX	0471268089	427272446	The Five Biggest Unsolved Problems in Science	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	5 Unsolved Problems - Or is it 100's	This book is a GREAT introduction to anyone interested in science, wishing to become better informed about scientific issues, or wanting to know what many of our best scientists are working on right now.  It is not particularly deep and is therefore a good primer for the non-scientifically oriented reader.      The authors open with a careful discussion of the scientific process.  Most of us make our daily life decisions on the basis of tradition, word of mouth, and limited anecdotal experience - and refer more important decisions to a professional.  How enlightening it is to be reminded of the rigorous testing, the meticulous standards and procedures, the relentless re-examination in the face of new data, and the necessary grilling by peers that is part of the day to day activity of scientists.  Science uses a different language from that used in everyday speech - that language being mathematics.  \\"Because mathematical skills require a great deal of effort to acquire, explaining scientific hypotheses to people not trained in mathematics requires translation of mathematical concepts into conversational language.  Unfortunately, the meaning of the hypothesis may suffer in the process.\\"     The five unsolved problems are then discussed, one each from the fields of physics, chemistry, biology, geology, and astronomy.  Then 27 more are asked in an \\"appendix\\" type chapter and given only half-page answers.  I like these sorts of books because they help me to maintain general scientific literacy.      For every bit of knowledge we gain, new questions invariably arise - that never-ending quest being the nature of science.  I personally think we'll still be looking for the TOE (Theory of Everything) in 100 years, but reading about unsolved problems will notify me if string theory is abandoned, if parallel universes are found, or if the complete structure and function of the proteome is ascertained (fat chance).  I might add that the running cartoon commentary by Sidney Harris is superb!	2005-01-24
US	16829939	RM1R5EE39ULOX	0380813815	737838666	Lamb: The Gospel According to Biff, Christ's Childhood Pal	Books	5	2	3	N	Y	Biff Rocks!	What a concept!  Write a book about the lost years of Jesus (ages 1 week through 30?), make all the characters budding comedians, and give Jesus a streetwise sidekick who is a womanizer.  So that it won't be just comic relief, do some research.  Then present the probable political and social situation of Nazareth at the time.  Develop the characters of the Roman heirarchy, the Jewish heirarchy, and the peasant class.   <br /> <br />Send the young Messiah and his narrator, Biff around the world to study the great religions, meanwhile remembering to include a joke or two on every page.   <br /> <br />Keep it light, but not frivolous, as you merge into the time that is written about in the Bible.  Make the ghost-writing for the Sermon on the Mount like a weekly think-tank session for Saturday Night Live.  Cap it off with a believable version of the Passion.   <br /> <br />One last thing - give it a happy ending.  I wish I'd thought of all that.	2005-01-24
US	16829939	RC7YAU9ET8V4K	0060530693	278032365	The Bible with Sources Revealed	Books	5	201	207	N	Y	Explanation of the Documentary Hypothesis	Why is the Bible so hard to read?  The answer lies in the Documentary Hypothesis, conceived over a hundred years ago.  This book presents a comprehensive collection of evidence supporting this theory, all in a concentrated format in the first 31 pages.      The rest of the book presents the author's translation of the Torah (1st 5 books of the Bible), coded to alleged authorship, with extensive footnotes & explanations.  What a job!    The short version is as follows:  \\"J\\" wrote a story representative of Southern Judean interests.  \\"E\\" wrote one about Northern Israeli interests.  When the North and the South united, the Priests in charge could not get rid of either well known document, so he (they) wrote \\"P\\", making the story more to his (their) liking.  King Josiah \\"took charge\\" at age 8.  Because of his age, he was heavily influenced by the priests.  After he attained young adulthood, the main priest conveniently found \\"D\\" (mainly a set of laws) that so impressed the young king that he had the whole tome read aloud to the masses.    All these sources and editions were put together by an editor, called the \\"Redactor\\" into the final 5-book work.  The Redactor may have been Ezra, a priest of the Second Temple after the Jews returned from exile in Babylon.    Evidence for this elaborate theory consists of differences in linguistics, terminology, content, narrative flow, connections with other parts of the Bible, relationships among the sources to each other and to history, and convergence (several different lines of evidence converge).  This data is fascinating, well-presented, and quite convincing.    The above is my light summary of the Documentary Hypothesis.  The heart and soul of the book, however, is in the text of the Torah itself, which is color coded. This makes it quite convenient to read each source individually as a flowing text.  When read in this fashion, the improvement in continuity is  striking.  The footnotes are helpful in bringing out political considerations of the authors and the Redactor.    Friedman is also the author of \\"Who Wrote the Bible\\", a book which creates a mystery out of the authorship delimma.  That book I also recommend, and suspect a person who likes one book would like the other.  The book under review here appears to be the definitive work on the Documentary Hypothesis.  It belongs in the library of anyone interested in the Bible, with the possible exception of literal interpreters, and I recommend it highly.	2005-01-23
US	16829939	R2MFHUZ40XXARJ	080185654X	392307752	Treatise on the Gods (Maryland Paperback Bookshelf)	Books	5	26	26	N	Y	Not For the Theologically Sensitive	Pleasant, easy to read, and thorough overview of religion from the beginning of humanity, with an emphasis on Christianity, from the position of an atheist.      From the preface:  \\"My book is mainly factual.  Its purpose is simply to get together, in handy and I hope readable form, the material data about the embryology, anatomy, and physiology of theology, with an occasional glance at its pathology....Religion was invented by man just as agriculture and the wheel were invented by man, and there is absolutely nothing in it to justify the belief that its inventors had the aid of higher powers, whether on this earth or elsewhere....There is no purpose here to shake the faithful, for I am completely free of the messianic itch...\\"    Chapter I \\"Its Nature and Origin\\" - Mencken describes his view of how early priests came into being in prehistoric society:  \\"One Spring there came great rains in the valley and on their heels a flood of melting snow...One night the flood rolled into the lowermost cave, cut off the occupants, and drowned a mother and her child...The rising water to them seemed like a living thing...One fellow steps boldly forth...He goes close to the edge and bombards his enemy with stones...Growing bolder, he stalks into the water and belabors it with his club...the next morning the flood begins to recede...This first priest could accomplish something that other men were incapable of...What more natural than to give thanks?...True religion was born at that moment...He took on the aloof, philosophical air of a dermatologist contemplating a rash: he learned how to avoid making promises and yet hold the confidence of his customers...  He gave some thought to the form and content of his first incantations, and thereby invented the first ritual...The gift of blarney went with the sacerdotal office, in the early days as now...the new trade of priesthood had attractions that were plainly visible to any bright and ambitious young man...When he let it be known that there were certain things, done by the people, that would gratify the gods and insure their aid, these things began to be regarded as virtuous, upright, moral.  When he announced that other things were frowned upon, they straightaway became sins...The priest found himself a law-giver...Did the fires rage and the sky remain dry?  Then it was because the faithful had forgotten their plain duties...It was not the priest's fault...calamities were plentiful in those days, as they are now.  They remain the most potent weapons in the armamentarium of the priest...Theologians, as a class, are practical men.  Immortality, as they preach it in the modern world, is but little more than a handy device for giving force and effect to their system of transcendental jurisprudence: what it amounts to is simply a threat that the contumacious will not be able to escape them by dying...I am myself a theologian of considerable gifts, and yet I can no more imagine immortality than I can imagine the Void which existed before matter took form.  Neither, I suspect, can the Pope.\\"    Chapter II \\"Its Evolution,\\" continues as an academic treatise, but sprinkled liberally with condescending and clever phraseology:  About creation myths:  \\"In no department of theology is there a vaster accumulation of amusing rubbish.\\"  About afterlife:  \\"Even in India, the very gonad of theology...\\"   About contradictions in the Bible:  \\"The collection of tracts called the New Testament is so full of inconsistencies and other absurdities that even children in Sunday School notice them.\\"    Chapter III \\"Its Varieties\\" is a study of comparative religions.  This is a well-done academic piece with fewer \\"Mencke-isms.\\"    Chapter IV \\"Its Christian Form\\" is a beautifully written history of Christianity, highly complimentary of the Old Testament as poetry and Literature, and is the best chapter in the book.  He reviews the well-accepted J, E, D, & P authorship of the Torah, with brief mention of how it was compiled.(for more info on this, read \\"Who Wrote the Bible,\\" by Friedman).  This chapter alone is worth the price of the book.  According to the bibliography, he gets much of his factual material from James Hastings' Encyclopedia of Religion and Ethics.    Chapter V \\"Its State Today,\\" resumes \\"Menckeisms,\\" such as, \\"The church as an organization has thrown itself violently against every effort to liberate the body and mind of man.  It has been, at all times and everywhere, the habitual and incorrigible defender of bad governments, bad laws, bad social theories, bad institutions.\\"    I thoroughly enjoyed this entertaining and informative book and highly recommend it.  For a different approach to the same subject, I recommend Atran's book, \\"In Gods We Trust.\\"	2005-01-13
US	16829939	RTUBERKJRMYJQ	0618246983	254276554	The Best American Science and Nature Writing 2004 (The Best American Series)	Books	5	4	5	N	Y	Kissing a Polar Bear	This issue of the yearly publication, The Best Science & Nature Writing of 2004 is as good as watching IMax with surround sound and getting all the popcorn you can eat, delivered to your easy chair. <br /> <br />My favorites are \\"Bugs in the Brain\\" (about how parasites direct hosts' behaviors) and \\"The Battle For Your Brain\\" (about the ethics surrounding psychotherapeutic drugs in development). <br /> <br />Excerpts from \\"Bugs...\\": <br /> <br />Certain parasites control the brains of their hosts.  The rabies virus is one such parasite.  Rabies causes its host to become aggressive so that the virus can jump into another host via saliva from the bite wound.  \\"Scads of neurobiologists study the neural basis of aggression.  Aggression has spawned conferences, doctoral theses, petty academic squabbles, nasty tenure disputes, the works.  Yet all along, the rabies virus has 'known' just which neurons to infect to make the rabid victim aggressive.\\" <br /> <br />The parasite called Toxoplasma gondii ideally uses only cats and rodents as its hosts.  The rodent eats the cat feces, the cat eats the rodent.  The infected rodent, previously instinctually terrified when it smells the cat pheromone, loses its fear of cats!!  Everything else is pretty much intact.  \\"This is akin to someone getting infected with a brain parasite that has no effect whatsoever on the person's thoughts, emotions, SAT scores, or TV preferences, but to complete its life cycle, generates an irresistable urge in its host to go to the zoo, scale a fence, and try to french kiss the pissiest looking polar bear - a parasite induced fatal attraction!\\" <br /> <br />Interestingly I counted at least 1/3 of the articles which were fairly light in science, but made great reading anyway.  Out of 23 articles, I gave only 3 a thumbs down.  I read Scott Atran's article first, not because it was first, but because I loved his excellent book \\"In Gods We Trust.\\" <br /> <br />I look for this annual every year, along with itsalso superb  rival by a similar name, \\"The Best American Science Writing of 200_\\", and recommend them both highly.    <br />	2005-01-10
US	16829939	RBIN1Y1I13NO2	0399529519	215838741	How Do You Compare?	Books	5	5	6	N	Y	Take your Personality Inventory!	Wouldn't it be terrific if someone who was an expert on personality testing picked the easiest, most interesting tests, and assembled them in a book?  The author took this on and presented it so that the reader could test himself.  Between tests, elaborations are provided with a little psychobabble and moderate amounts of interesting trivia - some of it common sense, some surprising.    Starting out in the first chapter - bam - I have to take an IQ test!  Am I ready for this?  I used to do OK 45 years ago - but at that age, I knew everything.  Could I still score highly enough to maintain my self-image?    There are several other tests that run the gamut, my favorite being the last one, which measures one's locus of control.  Does your life unfold as a result of your direction or is it controlled by luck, chance, and other factors?       After this obstacle course, a nicely written epilogue left me with an appreciate of the need for tolerance.  It seems that between the genetics we were born with and the environment we've experienced for adjustments, we're left with only moderate flexibility for change.    This is a very interesting book which helps one evaluate his favorite subject - himself.  It stands alone as a sort of self-help book, and I recommend it highly.	2005-01-02
US	16829939	R1E5ROHXVSVJMK	0385721609	991519191	The Primal Teen: What the New Discoveries about the Teenage Brain Tell Us about Our Kids	Books	5	10	12	N	Y	Adolescent Angst via MRI	Why do teen-aqers shoplift, vandalize, argue illogically, indulge in high-risk activities, pierce their bodies, and exude obnoxious behavior (feel free to add items to this list)?    MRI studies of brain component size and activity document that adolescents' brains are unfinished, are chock full of neurological and hormonal changes, and work differently than the brains of adults.    In 1997, neuroscience made a surprising discovery.  In early adolescence, the brain's gray matter - its outer layer - thickens, then dramatically thins out.  In brain thickening, tiny branches of cells bloom madly, a process called \\"exuberance.\\"  This is followed by \\"pruning.\\"  As adolescence progresses, \\"there is an enormous loss of gray matter...a wholesale slashing of cell branches & synapses...a massive synaptic re-organization.\\"  This is very much like what happens at birth through late childhood, but scientist didn't realize that it happens again in adolescence.      \\"The frontal lobes, the very area that helps teen-agers make the right decisions, are the very last areas to reach stability...When shown fear producing images, teen-age brains 'lit up' in the amygdala, a key area for instinctual reactions such as fight or flight, anger, or 'I hate you, Mom.'  When adults were shown the same stimulus, they 'lit up' in the frontal lobes...What can we expect if that inhibition machinery, the pre-frontal cortex, is not yet fully formed?\\"      This book tells us to maintain vigilance, appropriate consequences for behavior, and some influence over that all-important peer group.  At the same time, take it easy.  \\"The old instinctual knowledge familiar to our grandparents 'They'll grow out of it,' now has a modern scientific foundation.\\"	2004-12-18
US	16829939	R1WXV5J98WQ2KV	0300095325	853706599	Benjamin Franklin	Books	5	9	9	N	N	The Man of the Thirteen Virtues	For the past 50 years, scholars have been collecting every surviving scrap of things written by BF, enough to fill 46 printed volumes.  Morgan wrote this book from the computer disc holding these writings - yes, this book is extracted completely from his writings.  Being a historian, Morgan wrote a book heavy in history, saturated with the most factual (at least from Franklin's viewpoint) concise summary of BF to be found.      A more recent book by Gordon Wood is also excellent, and is more of a character study, whereas this book is more detail oriented.  I recommend both these fine books, as complementary works about a man who possessed unbelievable talents.      While making a fortune for himself in the printing business, BF did for Philadelphia what the government didn't.  He organized the development of a fire department, fire insurance, the first American library, a college (now University of Pennsylvania), a military defense against the French and Indians, and numerous other civic endeavors.  This was \\"the ideal outlet for the usefulness he craved in initiating one association after the other, to meet people's need as they arose.\\"    Meanwhile, his insatiable curiosity and experimentation led him to become a world class scientist.  He was possibly the first American self-improvement book author, publishing \\"Poor Richard's Almanac\\" every year for many, many years.    He retired from active business at the age of 42 but he was in such demand as a public servant that he never really retired until death.  He represented Pennsylvania and subsequently other colonies in England until the possibility of compromise was gone.  During the war he was sent to France where he secured financial and military aid, a diplomatic feat of vital importance.  For the war effort, he was second in significance only to Washington, and had a lot more fun doing it than George did, as Morgan will tell you.    By far the oldest of the founding fathers, he was 69 when he participated in the writing of the Declaration of Independence, and 80 at the time of the Constitutional Convention.    Whether this is a first introduction (other than knowing his name) or a renewal of friendship, do yourself a favor and get to know this remarkable man better.  I highly recommend this very excellent book, and am now reading BF's autobiography, which, along with Poor Richard's Almanac, contributed immensely to BF's legacy.	2004-12-18
US	16829939	R2MT9FY48USEW9	0688172172	960249998	Phantoms in the Brain: Probing the Mysteries of the Human Mind	Books	5	15	15	N	Y	Where'd those clubbed fingers go?	On page 7, talking about lung cancer and clubbing of the fingers, Ramachandran/Blakeslee say \\"Remarkably, this telltale sign disappears instantly on the operating table as the surgeon removes the cancer.\\"  I know this not to be true, but I was already very impressed with the book.  This kept bothering me until by page 100 or so, I decided to check out the author a little.  He appeared to have exemplary credentials.  Then that very afternoon the new issue of Discover Magazine arrived and I found him mentioned twice, one of those times in a short feature.<br /><br /> In the preface, he says, \\"When writing a popular book, professional scientists always have to walk a tightrope between making the book intelligible to the general reader, on the one hand, and avoiding oversimplification, on the other, so that experts are not annoyed.\\"  Maybe the instantly cured clubbed fingers fit into this category.  He also says, \\"Some of the cases I describe are really composites of several patients, including classics in the medical literature.\\"  Perhaps this explains it.<br /><br />Possibly it was the journalist, Blakeslee, who decided to make the situation somewhat more interesting, but then one has to consider that other conclusions may be a little enhanced.<br /><br />Be that as it may, this book presents remarkable data.  It reads like a detective story and describes an empathetic doctor who has lots of rapport with his patients as he tries to help them deal with their unique problems.  The book gives an excellent review of brain anatomy and function. The first 20 pages summarizes aspects of the scientific method so well, I was enthralled. As I kept reading, I found out that someone with a keen mind using curiosity, simple observations, and prop-like equipment could still uncover new scientific data.<br /><br />Other reviewers have eloquently described the contents, and I urge you to read them.  Despite my criticism, this book deserves a \\"5\\", and should add to anyone's knowledgeabout consciousness and how the mind works.	2004-12-08
US	16829939	R14644P19VF603	1586482475	787803321	Idiot Proof: A Short History Of Modern Delusions	Books	4	8	10	N	Y	Enlightenment loses ground to irrationality	I'll bet Mr. Wheen is the kind of guy who walks into a room and immediately starts looking for things that are not to his taste.  For a person of this temperament, being a critic of everything is a good choice of profession - he doesn't like anyone or anybody.  His harangues are so relentless, one sentence starts on page 78 and goes for 15 lines, spilling over to finish on page 79.    That being said, the majority of people he criticizes deserve it, and there is a ton of information in this book I wouldn't have found otherwise.  Among the deserving victims are:    1) Deepok Chopra, \\"where the marriage of mysticism and money-making is consummated.\\"  Chopra says asinine things like \\"People who have achieved an enormous amount of wealth are inherently very spiritual.\\"  2)  Hillary Clinton, while in the White House, had a live conversation with the spirits of Eleanor Roosevelt & Mahatma Gandhi, with the help of self-styled \\"sacred psychologist,\\" Jean Houston.  3)  Luce Irigaray, a high priestess of the post-modernism movement, denounced Einstein's E=mc squared as a \\"sexist equation\\" since \\"it privileges the speed of light over other less masculine speeds that are vitally necessary to us.\\"  4) Those who empathize with the 9-11 terrorists on the basis that it is somehow America's fault.  5) Al Gore, who can give a teary-eyed tobacco-hating speech about his sister dying of lung cancer, yet brag to tobacco growers that he is one of them.  6) Muslim countries who enforce the \\"shariah\\" - the so-called Islamic law - thereby retreating into medieval barbarity.  The shariah, he writes, \\"is not from the Koran, but from the opinions of Islamic jurists in the 8th and 9th centuries when Islam was in one of its imperialist phases.  It was they who divided the world into the 'abode of Islam' and the 'abode of war,' equating apostasy with treason despite the Prophet's unequivocal assertion that 'there is no compulsion in religion.'\\"    One interesting item of a positive note (at leastfor Carter) is that he has been the only president to warn strategically important countries that further US aid was dependent upon an improvement in their human rights record.  It is impressive when a book has as many pearls of diverse information scattered through every page.  On more than one occasion, I stopped reading to look up something or someone referred to by Wheen.    Wheen's stated purpose is \\"to show how the humane values of the Enlightenment have been abandoned or betrayed....Each chapter looks at the application of counter-enlightenment in a different aspect of public life - politics, education, diplomacy, medicine, business, the media.\\"  I suppose he accomplishes this, although his entries bounce off walls.  Perhaps it is a collection of old essays glued together en route to a deadline.  It is still well worth reading, has lots of meat in it, and I recommend it highly.	2004-12-05
US	16829939	R3UINDNUZK7BFA	159420019X	240296592	The Americanization of Benjamin Franklin	Books	5	34	35	N	Y	BF's legacy saved by his Autobiography and Poor Richard	This book reads like a novel and is difficult to put down.  The author tries to get into BF's mind - not a simple task.  While Wood doesn't leave out BF's failures, it is easy to be overwhelmed with how talented this man was.  Although his whole life is reviewed, I would like to cover in this review something only hinted at in the last chapter.      When BF was in his young to middle-aged working life, he created, among other things, Poor Richard's Almanac.  This was first published in 1733 - full of common sense, admonitions to industry and frugality, and homespun proverbs.  His last edition was in 1758, reprinted separately as \\"The Way To Wealth,\\" and attributed to a \\"Father Abraham.\\"    Later, when BF was in a rare depression following a political failure in England, a friend convinced him he owed it to the public to write an autobiography.  He began the first installment as advice to his son, William, and wrote additional entries over a number of years.    BF loved Europe, and they loved him.  His work in electricity in his early 40's earned him an international reputation, complete with multiple honorary degrees.  Perhaps because he spent so much time abroad, perhaps because his political enemies set the tone, he was not as appreciated in his home country.  Interestingly, he made it back for the writing of the both the Declaration of Independence, and the Constitution 11 years later.      After BF died, he was virtually ignored in America, while France proclaimed 3 days of mourning and made him a national hero.  This contrast is more than striking.  There were many signers to the Declaration of Independence, yet only a few of them stand out in America as household names.  The rest of them have varied lesser legacies, with perhaps only short encyclopedia entries.      BF's legacy would possibly have shared that fate, had it not been for his writings, particularly his Autobiography and Poor Richard's Almanac.  Vitally important to the popularity of BF's writingswere the changes that were occuring in American society, lessening the mindless esteem of the seemingly non-working upper class, and celebrating the working man. Perhaps  his books helped to expedite these changes.     In the early 1800's these two books became standard issue for those working men who aspired to get ahead in America.  \\"The Way To Wealth\\" alone had over a hundred editions in over a dozen languages.  His \\"list of virtues\\" comprised 13 traits, each one to be concentrated on for a week at a time.  At the end of thirteen weeks, they would all have been practiced once, so one starts over.  At the end of a year, each virtue would have been rehearsed for four weeks.  BF admitted in writing the difficulties he personally experienced while trying to be virtuous, but maintained there was virtue in attempting perfection.  One of his famous statement concerns his difficulty conquering vanity.  He wrote that in trying to keep his vanity under control during  \\"humility\\" week, he found himself succumbing to proudness for having achieved so much humbleness (or something like that).     In 1836, a copy of BF's Autobiography was amongst Davy Crockett's few possessions found at the Alamo. This excellent book about one of my heroes, though relatively short, captures BF's exemplary abilities and a few human weaknesses.  I give it my highest recommendation.	2004-11-29
US	16829939	R1JOX6NWHDL5PP	0971365954	734436879	The Fifteen Century War, Islam's Violent Heritage	Books	4	14	16	N	Y	EVANGELISM BY THE SWORD	If you believe this book....the spreading of the faith by the sword is completely congruous with Islamic tenets, and was used by the Prophet Mohammad against the Meccans from the very beginning.  Islam divides the world into Dar-al-Islam - the world of Islam, and Dar-al-Harb - the world of war.  If the more than a billion Muslims in the world didn't support violent methods, wouldn't the peaceful majority drown out those few radicals?  Their silence, however, is deafening.  Either the majority secretly supports the fundamentalists, or they are totally cowed by a minority.    Allah's revelations to the Prophet in the 7th century covered every aspect of life so thoroughly that religion and politics are inseparable.  The Koran and the Hadith (Traditions of the Prophet) are the basis for the melding together of religion, law, politics, & society.  Man's institutions are made irrelevant, and there is no possible separation of church and state.  The original writings were subject to interpretation by Islamic scholars until the 10th century, when the laws were frozen, making any further change a heresy.      More than 80% of the 22 Arab nations have a declining GNP and 70% of the population is 25 year old or less.  This is fertile territory for the terror fraternity of radical Islam fundamentalists. Lots of schools exist where virtually nothing is taught but the Koran.      According to Norval, \\"The overwhelming majority of the pundits and decision makers in the West, including America's elites, say they have no problem with Islam, only with its violent extremist elements.  These people are wrong and are turning a blind eye to history.  The relationship between Islam and non-Islamic societies has been tense and full of conflict for almost fifteen centuries.\\"    This book is chock full of information about the Islam religion, but is lacking any thorough documentation that violence is advocated by the Koran or the Hadith.  At the same time, the subject matter is believable, especially in view of recent current events.  It makes sense to be informed about terrorist issues in today's world and I recommend this book highly as a good place to start.	2004-11-29
US	16829939	R37KLX7DPBFBLE	0060845503	794982372	The Third Chimpanzee: The Evolution and Future of the Human Animal (P.S.)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Superb Evolutionary Psychology and More	Ever since I read \\"Moral Animal,\\" by Wright back in 1995, and then Ridley's \\"Red Queen,\\" I have been a sucker for evolutionary psychology. It only makes sense to assume that the same natural selection that caused us to walk upright and develop big brains - also molded every nuance of our social and sexual interactions.  The first half of \\"Third Chimpanzee\\" is classic EP.     Disclaimer: For those who are offended by the very suggestion that our behavior evolved from a pre-ape ancestor - and that our behavior is an elaborate, sophisticated manifestation of language and socialization which evolved by natural selection along with a huge brain - you won't like this book.     Recently, I have read about resistance in university humanities departments to EP - humans being so special and all. We are - in the sense that our intelligence has given us free reign over our world - but humans are still very imperfect. We are poorly designed in many ways - backs, knees, tendency to war, self-delusion - exactly what one would expect from evolution. Cockroaches or certain scorpions, which can live without food and water for almost a year, are also impressive. There is every reason to believe that our (at times) unethical sexual behavior as well as our superior intelligence evolved in just as Rube-Goldberg a fashion as did our (very complicated and redundant) blood clotting mechanism.    The next several chapters are an assortment of associated topics.  The chapter on linguistics explains how pidgin and creole languages evolve - complicated syntax added by the next generation of children.  The chapter on agriculture is a synopsis of Diamond's acclaimed \\"Guns, Germs, and Steel.\\"  The chapter on the human tendency to genocide is superb.  Some readers will be surprised to find that religion is only one of five major causes of the sporadic genocides that have always plagued mankind.  The chapter on the early 1930's discovery of 50,000 indigenous people living in highly diverse tribesin New Guinea prompted me to buy the book \\"First Contact.\\"    I highly recommend this excellent book which is on its way to becoming a classic.	2004-10-15
US	16829939	R37RO0MARSB8F3	0743247442	120358955	The Corporation: The Pathological Pursuit of Profit and Power	Books	5	63	65	N	Y	The Corporation is a Sociopath	As a small business owner, I am attuned to the impositions of governmental intrusions.  I decided to read this book in order to get a more balanced view.  Although this author definitely has a bias, he does not come across as overtly fanatical, and has plenty of examples to document his position.           The corporation is compared to a sociopath.  The sociopathic personality is \\"irresponsible, manipulating, grandiose, lacking in empathy, has asocial tendencies, refuses to accept responsibility for actions, and cannot feel remorse....Many of the attitudes people adopt and the actions they execute when acting as corporate operatives can be characterized as psychopathic.\\"         Moreover, by the legal way a corporation is set up, its only motive is profit.  Every action taken, no matter how altruistic it looks, has to ultimately be a search for profits.  Otherwise, the corporation is subject to litigation by the shareholders.  \\"The corporation is deliberately programmed, indeed legally compelled, to externalize (dump) costs without regard for the harm it may cause to people, communities, and the natural environment.  Every cost it can unload onto someone else is a benefit to itself, a direct route to profit.\\"         \\"Many major corporations engage in unlawful behavior, and some are habitual offenders with records that would be the envy of even the most prolific human criminals.\\"  Following this quote is a list of 42 heavy fines levied over 11 years to GE.  This sounds akin to keeping a hardened repeat criminal under perpetual parole with minimal supervision and occasional hand slaps.  A law professor is quoted, \\"The practical business view is that a fine is an additional cost of doing business....the corporation, once convicted and fined, will simply have learned how to cover its tracks better.\\"         Within the past 20 years, corporations have really gotten in bed with government in the United States.   Billions in PAC money is spent every year for lobbying and political contributions. \\"It's very hard for a politician to turn someone down who has given a hundred thousand dollars to [his or her] campaign.  In terms of getting in the door and making your case, it's obviously easier.\\"  How can virtually unfunded (by comparison) watchdog groups compete with this machine aimed toward sugar-coating their industries and de-regulation.        I recommend this book highly, and am looking at the current political campaign with another view as to why certain programs are supported or not supported.  Perhaps in their votes our politicians are exhibiting sociopathic traits they borrowed from their corporate contributors or from lobbyists representing the corporate mindset.	2004-10-06
US	16829939	R1HBVLCCSQUE6N	0465044050	42577365	The Birth Of The Mind: How A Tiny Number Of Genes Creates The Complexities Of Human Thought	Books	5	23	24	N	Y	"JUST ONE MORE ELABORATE CONFIGURATION OF PROTEINS"	Marcus says, \\"From a mind's-eye view, brains may seem awfully special, but from a gene's-eye view, brains are just one more elaborate configuration of proteins.\\"         This book is a compilation of very recent research about how the brain as an organ puts itself together.  This process is not unlike the process for any other organ, but results in a product that is highly malleable and ripe for environmental adjustment.  The book has been explained very adequately by many reviewers, so I will mainly try to provide you with some representative quotes and add only a few comments.         About Nature vs. Nurture:         \\"The nativists are right that significant parts of the brain are organized even without experience, and their opponents are right to emphasize that the structure of the brain is exquisitely sensitive to experience.\\"         \\" At the core of our story has been a tension between the evidence that the brain can - like the body - assemble itself without much help from the outside world, and the evidence that little about the brain's initial structure is rigidly cast in stone.....To an earlier generation of scholars, the evidence for innateness and the evidence for flexibility seemed almost irreconcilable.  Most scholars simply focused their attention on the stream of evidence they were more impressed with....Both sides have their points.  The brain is capable of awesome feats of self-organization - and equally impressive feats of experience driven reorganization.  But the seeming tension between the two is more apparent than real: Self-organization and re-organization are two sides of the same coin, each the product of the staggering amount of co-ordinated suites of autonomous yet highly communicative genes.\\"         The above non-debate (to a hard science person) is well-covered, but the jist of the book is more about how the pre-wiring occurs, relying occasionally on computer science analogies:         \\"Each gene acts like a single line in a computer program.\\"         \\"As soon as the IF part of the gene's IF-THEN rule is satisfied, the process of translating the template part of the gene into it's corresponding protein commences.\\"         \\"With one more trick - regulatory proteins - that control the expression of other genes - nature is able to tie the whole genetic system together, allowing gangs of otherwise unruly free-agent genes to come together in exquisite harmony.\\"         \\"Each gene does double duty, specifying both a recipe for a protein and a set of regulatory conditions for when and where it should be built.  Taken together, suites of these IF-THEN genes give cells the power to act as parts of complicated improvisational orchestras.\\"         How do the \\"billions of neurons in your brain\\" develop \\"trillions of connections between them.\\"  There is a well done scientific description given, but I also like his caricature description:  \\"Even in a simple organism like a worm, the mechanics of (neuron) migration are so complicated they could have been borrowed from one of John Madden's playbooks.  Cell number 1 goes right, number 2 goes left, and cell 3 goes long for a pass.\\"         About language development:         \\" If language came onto the scene relatively quickly by evolutionary standards, it is because much of the genetic toolkit for building complex cognition was already in place.\\"         \\"To understand the origin of language will be to understand how a relatively small set of new genes coordinates the actions of a much larger set or pre-existing genes.\\"         \\"If language arose de novo, it would, I suspect, have to go through a long series of gradual steps, but if language arose by a novel combination of existing elements - such as neural structures for memory, the automatization of repeated actions, and social cognition - it is possible that it could have developed relatively quickly.\\"         \\"A language module may depend on a few dozen or a few hundred evolutionarily novel genes, but itis likely to depend heavily on genes - or duplications of pre-existing genes - that are involved in the construction of other cognitive systems, such as the motor control system, which coordinates muscular action, or the cognitive systems that plan complex events.\\"            There is lots more, including an appendix on methods for reading the genome, but I'll close with this quote from the final chapter:  \\"In the coming decades, we will all - collectively , as a society - need to decide what we think about biotechnology and what applications we are and are not willing to allow.  The debates we have now, about cloning and stem cell research, pale in comparison to debates we are likely to encounter as the technology for manipulating genes advances.\\"         About a personal item:         When I was in school, I decided that I needed to study a concept an arbitrary number of times (say, 5 times), maybe from the different points of view of several scientific disciplines, in order to really learn it.  I guessed that synaptic and neuronal pathways could be built up like bicep muscles.  Marcus covers this and calls it \\"synaptic strengthening,\\" along with a lengthy explanation that \\"More than a hundred different molecules may be involved, and there are at least 15 distinct steps in the process.\\"           I highly recommend this excellent book.	2004-09-22
US	16829939	R115XR20HNHDG5	0195159071	492961950	A Brief History of the Mind: From Apes to Intellect and Beyond	Books	4	17	17	N	Y	NOT READY FOR PRIME TIME	For a short book, (fewer than 200 pages), Dr. Calvin provides a wealth of information from a wide variety of scientific disciplines, and a HUGE bibliography.  He approaches evolutionary cognitive development from the standpoint of a neurobiologist.         He has excellent, entertaining quotes to begin and finish many chapters, and nice illustrations.  He provides brief (one paragraph) chapter summaries in the Table of Contents.  I read that first, and reread individual chapter summaries before and after each chapter.  In chapter 8, he discussed this structured, obsessive, pattern-seeking behavior of mine.         Here is the plot: 7 million yrs ago, we emerged from the apes.  Bt 160,000 yrs ago, we were homo sapien.  By 50,000 yrs ago, we were homo sapien sapien - same physique, same sized brain, just soft-wired more elegantly.  Dr. Calvin says, \\"It's just in the last 1% of that up-from-the-apes period that human creativity & technological capabilities have really blossomed.  It's been called 'The Mind's Big Bang'.\\"         How did this happen?         On page 153, he listed 5 candidates, all of which he said  were probably operative, but he has a favorite.  (Interestingly, he leaves out Matt Ridley's favorite from THE RED QUEEN; that it's all about the battle between the sexes.)  In Dr. Calvin's theory, \\"Evo-Devo,\\" he relies on syntax development and spear-throwing skills as catalysts to the \\"Mind's Big Bang,\\" and spends a lot of of time explaining his thoughts.  He is obviously very well informed about language development.  I won't try to explain this complex theory here, but I did think it had merit.  I thought, however, that for the crown jewel of his book, it was not presented clearly enough.         I began to wonder where gene change was going to fit in.  As I read, I searched for indications that the current brand of natural selection was in play.  In one segment, he suggested what sounded exactly like vertical transmission of memes, although he didn't call them memes.  He extrapolated this into the future, saying, \\"a number of present day human abilities have some potential for future elaboration even without natural selection.\\"  I couldn't help but wonder what Richard Dawkins would think about this.  It sounded awfully Lamarckian to me.         As the plot unfolded, the existing product (our minds) was shown to be jury-rigged and unfinished, in evolution's usual fashion...so, as humans, we have tendencies to misinterpret in our own favor, rationalize, use faulty logic, wage war, etc.  In short, we are \\"NOT READY FOR PRIME TIME.\\"         This book is well-written, extensively researched, and entertaining, about a subject in which informed speculation appears to be the state of the art.  Too bad we don't have hard evidence for the \\"how\\" of evolutionary cognitive function such as what mitochondrial DNA is to geneology.         I recommend this book highly, and am inspired to read more on the subject, probably from books he mentions.  Because his charts in chapter 8 were unclear, I give him a 4.	2004-09-17
