US	16905832	R3AWB44W531O6G	0553584502	303170656	The Taking	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Unconventional as Usual	I was only slightly surprised to see so many negative reviews of The Taking.  As for me, this book caused me to reflect more on the nature of the world and reality itself more than any of Koontz's others.    The book starts out spooky and continues to digress deeper and deeper into some of the creepiest and most horrific narrative Koontz has ever penned.  Just when you think you have hit bottom, there's a deep dark cellar of new horror.  Like other Koontz stories, our heroes are seemingly ordinary people who are thrust into extraordinary events.  In The Taking, the world seems to be ending, with dramatic and devastating weather events around the world.  Is this Armegeddon?  An alien invasion?  An alien equivelent of terra forming?      Closer to home, neighbors start turning up dead or missing.  An evil much more personal is at work, acting with a hatred of humanity and viciousness that defies explanation.  Though our heroes are armed, unlike in other Koontz novels their weapons are of questionable utility.        Some have said that they liked the first part of the book, but not the second.  Or liked the horror that was narrated, but not the explanation.  But far from being an unsuitable explanation, Koontz' ending provides the only rational explanation for the horror and evil that has occurred.  It is not traditional SciFi or horror to be sure, but if that is what your demand from you fiction then Koontz is not the novelist for you.	2005-06-20
US	16905832	R27U8ZL9WL1R3F	0805075615	641939565	In the Company of Soldiers: A Chronicle of Combat	Books	3	17	18	N	N	Excellent at Points, Petty at Others	I agree with the reviewer who said this is more aptly titled, \\"In the Company of Generals,\\" though I would add \\"and Colonels.\\"  Unlike Thunder Run or The March Up, few battles are narrated from the perspective of the soldier actually doing the fighting.  This is not a criticism of the book, just a notice to the prospective reader.  What Atkinson does well is write about the Commanders of the 101st Airborne, and their travels, travels, and accomplishments from preparing for war through the Gulf War itself.   <br /> <br />The sheer logistical nightmare of preparing for a war thousands of miles from one's base is captured in the big picture and through anecdotes, such as the vigorous disagreement about whether to tape or paint helicopter blades to protect them from the sand.  After heated discussion and much agonizing, it was discovered there was no tape.  Paint would have to suffice.  By spending time with the Commanding General of the 101, as well as his logistics and other officers, Atkinson does an excellent job of conveying the size of the logistical challenge faced by the 101st (and, no doubt, other U.S. divisions) and the magnitude of the accomplishment in meeting it.   <br /> <br />As the war itself unfolds, Atkinson does a decent job of helping us understand how the 101st' mission changes to meet the realities of combat.  The reader may be (as I was) distracted by continuous petty attacks on President Bush, Secretary Rumsfeld, and even Fox News.  They are so ancillary to his point that they serve no purpose other to offend, or at the very least distract.    Though Atkinson may try to place them in a bigger context, it's pretty transparent he is searching for his own voice among the facts at his disposal (like when he singles out a negative comment written in a bathroom stall about President Bush as somehow representative of troop morale and opinions on the war).   <br /> <br />Overall, an excellent discussion about preparing for war, a good discussion of the 101st' role in that war as seen from its Commanders, but distracting and petty political potshots taken throughout.	2005-05-20
US	16905832	R28JA1KU6LXZFK	0830827889	232042444	Paul and First-Century Letter Writing: Secretaries, Composition and Collection	Books	5	21	21	N	Y	A Must Have For Any Student of Paul's Letters	Paul and First Century Letter Writing is a valuable contribution to any study of Paul the apostle.  Because so much of what we know about Paul we learn from his letters, understanding the practice of letter writing in his culture is vital to understanding Paul.  This is not only true for understanding the meaning of his letters, but also for the issues that bother some academics-did Paul write Ephesians?  Is 2 Corinthians one letter?  Or two or three combined into one?   <br /> <br />Though commentaries on Pauline letters or biographies of Paul may discuss aspects of these issues, full treatments of the issue of ancient letter writing and its implications for the study of Paul's letters are harder to find.  Here, Richards offers just such a book.  He describes the materials involved in drafting letters, how ancient letter writers used sources, the procedure of letter writing, the time involved, the use of secretaries, the detection of interpolations, the use of letter carriers, and the distances and means of travel of those carriers.  Richards then draws out the practical effect of this knowledge.  For example, he explains why letter writing was so expensive and does a convincing job of determining the cost in present-value dollars.  He also explains the significance of co-authorship on Paul's letters.  Though many of Paul's letters were co-authored, many scholars seem to all but ignore this fact in their study of the theology and language of Paul's letters.  This is a mistake.  A co-author of a letter would have had a substantial impact on the content and theme of \\"Paul's\\" letters.  The use of different secretaries and even letter carriers too may have affected the content of Paul's letters, though to a lesser degree.   <br /> <br />In support of his conclusions, Richards draws on a vast amount of first-century writings, including many non-Christian letters from the ancient Mediterranean.  This is a welcome use of sources and counters any suspicion that Richards issimply striving to reach a particular result.  He also gives a good account of prior efforts to gauge the impact of ancient letter writing.   <br /> <br />Finally, the book is well written.  Richards writes clearly and simply.  He also does a surprisingly good job of placing the read back in Paul's time, on the streets of ancient Greek cities, or in courtyard of a middle-class apartment.  Furthermore, the book is well organized.  He builds his case in each section and makes his argument.  He then ends each section with a clear statement of his conclusion.  You may not agree with his conclusions, but you can see how he reached them.   <br /> <br />I highly recommend this book for anyone interested in better understanding Paul and his letters.	2005-04-05
US	16905832	RXEYZUWN0FVUT	0061057959	480517915	Face of the Enemy	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Interesting Universe, but Uneven Development	All of humanity is threatened with extinction by the relentless, indomitable alien Remor.  Or is it?  The cover of the book suggests so.  Many of the characters seem paralyzed by fear of them.  However, there seem to be dozens-- perhaps hundreds -- of human inhabited worlds and only a few appearances of the Remor.  And even when they do show up, the humans do not do all that bad in the battles.  Moreover, it appears that most of humanity is so indifferent to the Remor threat that they are unwilling to sign up with the Interstellar Defense League -- which was created by more threatened systems to combat the Remor threat.  Still, I liked this book enough to buy the sequel. <br /> <br />Though the Remor threat is the overarching motivator for most of the characters, much of the story follows a team of scientists as they study a primitive alien race on a newly discovered planet.  Are these primitives really the Remor?  Long lost cousins perhaps?  Or related in some other less threatening way?  The scientists allow for some interesting character development and their troubles keep their particular narrative thread interesting.  Another narrative thread following a soldier involved in battling the Remor is also worthwhile.  Some other lesser narrative threads served their purposes but were allowed to get too much of a life of their own without much closure. <br /> <br />One thing I liked about the book was the tension between the IDL, which takes the Remor threat very seriously, and the more pacifistic planets and human governments, who do not.  It's kind of an interstellar Red State/Blue State cultural divide, with terms like \\"pansies\\" and \\"jack booted thugs\\" being exchanged between the disagreeable human camps.  Sometimes the IDL is overly militiristic and sometimes the others do act like oblivious wimps, but since the Remor are real and do appear powerful, which side are you willing to give a few breaks? <br /> <br />The actual battles, in space and on the ground, areinteresting as far as they go.  But this is not really Space Opera and you do not get the global picture and drama that a David Weber would deliver.  The battles seem intended more to develop characters and serve narrative purposes rather than be the ends of the book themselves.   <br /> <br />Enjoyable enough to buy the sequel, which I thought was an improved product.	2005-03-21
US	16905832	R2H3OPBGUHYGMN	0060536772	998383807	Nature of the Beast (Military Science Fiction Series)	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Much Improved on the First in the Series	I enjoyed The Face of the Enemy enough to buy this sequel and I am glad that I did.  From a literary perspective, it is an improvement on almost every level.  The character development is more rich, the plot tighter, and the battle scenes more compelling.<br /><br />Picking up shortly after the first book, the focus of The Nature of the Beast is direct military confrontation with the Remor.  Humanity is launching its first real counteroffensive, but its commander and his troops are not exactly the cream of the crop of the Interstallar Defense League.  At least on the surface.  To make matters worse, the IDL force has to deal with a large contingent of civilian volunteers from a a star nation whose human government  has refused to sign up with the IDL.  They are eager, but naive, underequipped, and undertrained.<br /><br />In addition to following the IDL's preparations, you learn about life on a Remor occupied planet.  Which is kind of surprising because you got the impression from the first book that there would be no humans left after the Remor got done with them.  But it seems that the Remor have their uses for humans which makes the Remor far more heinous than had they simply just exterminated them all.<br /><br />Fawkes follows both narrative threads in a balanced manner, giving each sufficient attention so that when the narratives converge, the story moves along smoothly and naturally.<br /><br />The battles in space and on the ground are more detailed and developed than in his first installment, though not as global as you will find in other science fiction.  Though in the first book, the IDL characters sometimes seemed a little one dimensional, here they have more depth.  More honor.  And certainly more justification.<br /><br />In the first book you learned more about humanity and its varied governments, motivations, and space nations.  This book tells us a lot more about the Remor and, perhaps, their motivations.  In my opinion, Fawkes has done a good jobof \\"setting the board\\" for future books about this universe.	2005-03-21
US	16905832	R1UF93QVH1OZ4E	0865543828	54633389	The Influence of the Gospel of Saint Matthew on Christian Literature Before... (New Gospel Studies)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Which NT Books to the Early Christian Writers Use?	This book, the second of a series of three, is deceptively named. Although the title mentions only the Gospel of Matthew, Massaux actually discusses each New Testament book and how it was used by various early Christian writers (such as the Letter of Polycarp). <br /> <br />Although I have seen lists of supposed allussions to the NT by Apostolic Fathers, Massaux goes into much more detail. He ably and soberly sorts through the possible New Testament allusions and quotes. He organizes his material by devoting a chapter to each Apostolic Father and sections within each chapter to pariticular writings. Then there are subsections devoted to how the particular Apostolic Father's writing uses each New Testament book. There is also a very helpful scripture index at the end, which allows you to research particular verses and how they were used by all of the Apostolic Fathers. <br /> <br />This is not light reading. The translation of the French is pretty good, but not always lucid. And much of the discussion is about the use of particular greek phrases. Even so, laypersons can manage and benefit from the material.  <br /> <br />If you are looking to discover which New Testament books were used by which Apostolic Fathers, this book is invaluable.	2005-03-02
US	16905832	R2CM8I9WOECHAC	0380818248	849246011	Star Corps (The Legacy Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	3	25	32	N	N	Technically fine, but not compelling	Douglas is a pretty good writer, but this book -- perhaps the series -- is lacking interesting characters and an overall sense of clarity.      Set about a hundred and thirty years in the future, the world is a different place.  The United States Marine Corp., however, is much the same. Their motto:  \\"Travel the universe.  Meet exotic people.  And kill them.\\"  It seems that the discovery of ancient alien artifacts on Mars, Earth, and Europa, have fundamentally changed the beliefs, religions, and geopolitical reality of earth.      My opinion of this book is likely affected by my unfamiliarity with the earlier \\"Heritage Trilogy.\\"   It apparently sets the stage for much of the background information.  Still, a continuation of a series with a new trilogy should take into account those readers unfamiliar with the previous works.  Instead of bringing the reader up to speed, Douglas dribbles out the facts of this brave new world throughout the first half of the book.  It was not until that mark that I actually thought I knew which governments were which, who they were allied with, which alien races were which and when they existed, and that Wicca has become the predominate religion (in the Corps! no less).    Douglas does a good job of describing futuristic combat.  Neural implants, robot drones, combat armor, and nanotechnology have revolutionized warfare, though the infantry have retained their central role.  Even so,  the action gets a little old and can best be summed up by:  \\"Greatly outnumbered but high-tech marines defeat human/alien wave attacks by low-tech primitives.\\"    Most of the characters were ho-hum, with the exception being a young Marine recruit who finds his baptism of fire a long way from home.	2005-02-20
US	16905832	R3S3JJOKYIE9Y3	0664246982	685891338	The Evidence for Jesus	Books	3	8	10	N	N	A Sober Book, Though Somewhat Limited and Dated	Dunn is a pre-eminent New Testament scholar. As such, I had high hopes that this book may be \\"the\\" response to the Jesus Myth. Although useful and well-written, its focus is not necessarily the Jesus Myth, but some of the other liberal treatments of the historical Jesus. The book appears to have been prompted by a British television special featuring a preponderance of radical liberal New Testament scholarship. <br /> <br />A scholar of a moderate bent, Dunn begins by mentioning the difficulties created by the \\"gap\\" between Jesus' ministry and the writing of the gospels (which he places at 36-39 years), the fact that the Gospels were written in Greek but Jesus taught in Aramaic, and the redaction of the sources in the Gospels. The discussion of the redaction of material in the Gospels is surprisingly in-depth for such a short book. Dunn demonstrates that though there is redaction, it is focused on a core of historical information accepted by each of the gospels. <br /> <br />Dunn goes on to demonstrate quite convincingly that Jesus considered himself uniquely to be God's son and that the earliest Christians believed in the empty tomb and the bodily resurrection of Jesus. These chapters are not your typical apologetics, because Dunn has quite a sceptical eye for some material. Nevertheless, his careful analysis shows the emptiness of overly sceptical conclusion-jumping. <br /> <br />Dunn considers the early Christian epistles and other evidence to conclude that there was diversity in early Christianity, but not nearly as broad as some contend. Ultimately what bound Christians together was their belief in \\"Jesus as the climax of God's ongoing purpose for man's redemption, the one whom God had raised from the dead and exalted as Lord, the man who demonstrated most clearly what God is like.\\" <br /> <br />A notable feature of the book is the one to two-page \\"note\\" responding to specific commentators from the TV program. This includes professors G.A. Wells and Morton Smith. <br /> <br />All in all, I am sure this book is a compelling response to a British TV show. But as a general response to skepticism it is limited and dated.  Still, Dunn is a careful scholar and engages relevant issues carefully and in surprising depth for such a relatively short book.	2005-02-10
US	16905832	R63F9BENUZ1YS	0553587889	239706284	Prodigal Son (Dean Koontz's Frankenstein, Book 1)	Books	4	20	21	N	N	Koontz Effectively Recasts an Old Story	Though a fan of Koontz, when I first saw the title of this book I was afraid it would be trite.  But I was wrong.  This is one of Koontz's best efforts in years.  He does not rewrite the story of Frankenstein, rather, he builds on it.      It is the present day and Dr. Frankenstein is alive and well and continuing his efforts.  His goal is more clarified.  He is no tragic figure, but an evil man bent on building a race of perfect beings that will replace humanity.  Over the two hundred years since the events portrayed in Mary Shelley's book (which, in an nice twist, is explained as a semi-historical account based on legends and hearsay), Dr. Frankenstein has amassed a fortune and a vast biotech empire.  Through modern genetics and science, he no longer has to piece together his creations from dead humans.  He grows them and programs them with directives and information.  He and his creations bide their time, infiltrate humanity, and await the time to strike openly.      Opposing these efforts is Dr. Frakenstein's first creation.  The Monster still lives, but has become more and more human while his creator has become less.  Koontz and Anderson do a great job of portraying the monster as a suffering man, noble in spirit yet malformed in body.  His path and mission cross paths with two homocide detectives on the trail of one of the New Race who has become a serial killer after he realizes that his programing and superior genetics has left him empty, missing something that humans seem to possess.      Koontz and Anderson's decision to place the story in New Orleans was a stroke of genius.  They do a good job of capturing the mood of what is perhaps America's most foreign, haunted city.  The food, the history, the music, the graveyards.  All are effecitvely portrayed and woven into the story.      The book is a quick read, with 4-5 page chapters dealing with one sequence of events, the moving to another.  Despite this, it does not come across choppy.  The writers keep the pace going while making the narrative clear.      A good book.  Reminscent of, though not quite at the level of, Koontz's excellent Twilight Eyes.	2005-02-05
US	16905832	R1ON4MHZILJNND	0066214130	57180289	State of Fear	Books	4	15	21	N	Y	Better Written But More Opinionated	This is perhaps Crichton's best book since Sphere.  The characters are interesting, the plot keeps you thinking, and the action keeps a healthy pace.  We start out with apparently disparate events occurring around the globe, but all lead to the same dark purpose.  Eco-terrorists are out to do substantial and deadly mischief while a mixed pack of protagonists -- some sympathetic to their cause -- put the clues together and attempt to thwart their sinister plot.    Let the buyer be advised, though, that this book is very skeptical of global warming.  As usual, Crichton writes his own strong opinions into the story.  But in this book it is more blatant than usual.  This is probably because the issue of global warming is more divisive then Japanese imports, genetically engineered dinosaurs, or nanotechnology.  Crichton skewers the professional environmental lobby, the scientific community, the legal community, and -- most blatantly of all -- Hollywood activists (having one such activist meet the most ironic of ends).    There are footnotes aplenty as Crichton refers to many peer-reviewed scientific articles and studies to back up his skepticism.  He even includes an appendix were he explicitly states the points he was trying to make in his book.  Admirable candidness, perhaps, but quite unnecessary.  The fictitious narrative leaves no doubts about his agenda.  Crichton believes most people are woefully underinformed about global warming, that the environmental lobby has become an industry of fear to keep itself in business, and that scientific bias and overconfidence is a serious problem that is almost completely ignored.  Crichton considers it the height of hubris to claim that we can \\"preserve\\" the environment or accurately predict global temperatures years ahead.  The environment is too complex, too interrelated, and too unpredictable.  Echoes of Jurassic Park's \\"chaos theory\\" are heard throughout the book.    Being sympathetic to his concerns to begin with, I enjoyed the book and actually learned a few things.  Yet this is a work of fiction, so while it might be a healthy call to some healthy skepticism, it should not be the end of anyone's research on the issue.  In any event, it is an enjoyable story apart from its politics (though the politics are likely inseparable from the reader's reaction).	2005-01-03
US	16905832	R1RG98L7W6DNS	0802816916	921643263	I Believe in the Historical Jesus	Books	2	6	9	N	N	Buy Something Else from Marshall	I. Howard Marshall is a leading New Testament scholar who is especially well known for his works on Luke-Acts, including Luke: Theologian and Historian and his commentary on The Acts of the Apostles.     This book was written in 1972 and is a response to some rather unsophisticated articulations of the Jesus Myth, including the early work of G.A. Wells.     In the introduction, Marshall cogently describes the state of the question by pointing out that in the mid-20th century, one of the few \\"authorities\\" to consider Jesus as a myth was a Soviet Encyclopedia. He then discusses the then recent work of G.A. Wells, who he finds to be imminently unpersuasive.      Wells proves to be prophetic in his statement that Wells' articulation of the Jesus Myth was unlikely to gain many adherents, especially among scholarly circles.  Though writing more than 30 years ago, Marshall was correct that Wells' impact on the scholarly community would be nil. Wells has convinced no one of importance.      Nevertheless, Marshall's own treatment of the question is somewhat unfocused and dated. Despite its title he does not focus exclusively on the Jesus Myth. Nor does he interact with the more recent efforts of commentators such as Earl Doherty (simply by virtue of having written more than 30 years ago).      Though I highly recommend all of Marshall's writings on Luke-Acts, readers would probably be better served by obtaining more recent discussions of these issues.	2004-12-23
US	16905832	R2TXO1B2S5YEAR	0968601405	865805341	The Jesus Puzzle. Did Christianity Begin with a Mythical Christ? : Challenging the Existence of an Historical Jesus	Books	2	51	99	N	N	Clever, Expansive, and Unconvincing (& check those endnotes)	Though dead among scholarly circles - even among moderate and liberal ones - the idea that Jesus never existed has visceral appeal to many with negative attitudes towards Christianity.  This book is not a serious academic work (it's published by the \\"Canadian Humanist Publications\\", whose bias is obvious and shared by the author), but it distinguishes itself from similar efforts by laypersons in its expansive scope.  Rather than skirt the Pauline references to Jesus' human life, it embraces them and claims they support the notion that Jesus never existed.  Rather than accept the consensus among historians and New Testament scholars that Josephus referred to Jesus on two occasions in Antiquities, the book rejects the idea that either reference is valid.   The book's use of purported Middle Platonism to undercut seeming references to Jesus' human life in Paul's letters and Hebrews is especially clever (not the least because so few readers will have any understanding of what Middle Platonism is).       On style, the writing is uneven and at points amateurish and simplistic.  The chapter titles and subheadings are often of no help in understanding what any particular chapter or section is about.  There is no scripture or ancient writings index, though some of these are in the general index.  The use of endnotes instead of footnotes (or even endnotes at the end of each chapter rather than lumped together at the end of the book) is particularly unhelpful because so much of the argument rest on the supporting references or discussion.  And as I learned, checking Doherty's endnotes is vital given how unsupported many of his key arguments turn out to be.      But, what about the substance?  Space constraints obviously limit, but I will comment on some of Doherty's central points.      Doherty's attempt to explain away references to Jesus' human life in Paul's letters (and Hebrews) is ambitious but unconvincing.  As the book goes through these passages, it becomes clear thattime and again he resorts to unsupported translations, far fetched interpretations, misrepresentations of Middle Platonism, and creative - to say the least - use of secondary sources in order to support his theory.  This foundation is shaky and gets weaker the more closely it is examined.  One example which taught me to check the endnotes closely was the book's assertion that the phrase \\"according to the scriptures\\" in 1 Cor. 15 when referring to Jesus' death, burial, and resurrection had nothing to do with fulfilled prophecy but meant instead that Paul had learned about these things from the Old Testament - not James and Peter and the other Christians.  The support for this interpretation?  It is not in the text and the reader is referred to an endnote.  To my surprise, the endnote does not refer to Paul's use of the phrase elsewhere. Nor does he refer to another NT writer's use of the phrase. Or to any Greek Lexicon. Or to any other Greek writer using the term as Doherty claims Paul uses it. All that Doherty refers to is an extraordinarily anachronistic modern day example of reading a newspaper.  I was genuinely surprised at how weak and anachronistic the support was for such a crucial point.      The rest of the book's explanations for the troubling Pauline and Hebrew references to a human Jesus are no more convincing and are ad hoc.  Rarely does Doherty conduct any sort of meaninful textual discussion of how Paul uses these phrases elsewhere in his writings.  This is especially true of his attempt to dismiss Paul's statement that Jesus was \\"born of a descendant of David according to the flesh\\" in Romans.    Another problem throughout Doherty's book is his use of secondary sources.  Often they are quoted so selectively that they are offered to support points that the source's author would denounce in the strongest terms - as is the case with his use of C.K. Barrett's fine commentary on Romans (while trying to dismiss Rom. 1:1-4 as a reference to Jesus' becoming human).      Regarding other issues, Doherty relies on theories that have already been debunked, such as his attempt to dismiss Acts as a source for early Christian history by referring to V. Robbins' oft-refuted theory about the we passages, or his insistence that neither of the references to Jesus in Josephus are authentic (despite overwhelming contrary opinion and evidence).  A continuing flaw in Doherty's argument is his rush to explain things in terms of Middle Platonism, while ignoring obvious Jewish influence, parallels, and beliefs.  Finally, the dismissive classification of the Gospels as midrash is so brief and so uninformed that it is of almost no worth (and his radically late dating of them unsupported by the evidence)    This may be the best presentation of the Jesus Myth argument in print.  Nevertheless, any informed and rational investigation into it will lead the reasonable person to conclude that if this is the best that the Jesus Myth has to offer, there is little to commend the theory.	2004-12-21
US	16905832	R36M8MUH0SMJR1	0826471609	912369889	Shepherding Movement (Journal of Pentecostal Theology Supplement)	Books	5	8	11	N	Y	Fair, Incredibily Informed, and Concise	I am literally a child of the Shepherding Movement, with my family joining while I was quite young.   On balance, my experience was very positive, yet I know of others who believe their experiences were different.  So when Professor Moore's book came out, I was interested to see how the overall, wider movement was evaluated. <br /> <br />Professor Moore promises a fair and balanced look at this controversial movement.  In my opinion, he delivers.  He concisely lays out the history of the movement from beginning to end.  Writing with a historian's eye, Moore places the rise of the Shepherding Movement in its context.  The Charismatic Renewal was sweeping the nation, but many of its leaders and participants were unaccountable, unattached, and simply drifting from one meeting to the next.  To foster accountability and maturity, leaders like Bob Mumford and Charles Simpson began teaching about spiritual authority and covenantal relationships.  Eventually, five leaders came together to emphasize these and other teachings (the so-called \\"Ft. Lauderdale Five\\").  Moore leaves no doubt that the Shepherding Movement arose in response to a real need and with the best of intentions.   <br /> <br />Unfortunately, many of the critics also thought they were acting with the best of intentions, though a few - such as Pat Robertson - come across as self-appointed judges who felt little need to actually engage the leaders of the Shepherding movement with their concerns.  Others come across concerned about losing their own turf or financial contributions to the Shepherding Movement.  Jack Hayford comes across as someone concerned, but believing the best about those with whom he disagreed and attempting to engage them in direct dialogue.  Indeed, it is to Moore's credit that both Charles Simpson and Jack Hayford endorse his book.   <br /> <br />I was impressed with the openness of leaders like Simpson and Mumford, who not only granted Moore several interviews but also turned over theirprivate correspondence to him - a treasure of primary data that any historian would love to have.  Moore puts it to good use, following the movement from its inception to the dissolving of the \\"Ft. Laurderdale Five,\\" then tracking the individual men in their ministries after the fact.  Moore also reminds us of the benefits this movement had on the broader Christian Renewal:  Hosanna/Integrity Music; the emphasis on Covenant in understanding God; the idea of spiritual mentoring; and, the emphasis on home groups and cell groups.   <br /> <br />I have always considered myself fortunate to have been involved in the Charles Simpson sphere of the Shepherding Movement.  After reading this fine book, that belief is reinforced.  Professor Moore deserves much credit for this concise and fair history of an influential movement within the Charismatic Renewal.	2004-12-18
US	16905832	RSDI47F0919Y0	0801026075	559822204	The Lost Letters of Pergamum: A Story from the New Testament World	Books	5	48	48	N	Y	Want to know how it was be a Christian in ancient Rome?	Having a strong interest in New Testament history and being a fan of historical fiction, I was immediately interested in this book.  I was a bit surprised to find it was not a narrative, but simply a fictional collection of ancient letters between Luke -- the author of the Gospel of Luke and the Acts of the Apostles -- and a Roman nobleman named Antipas.  This format, though, is well used.  Indeed, it is compelling.   <br /> <br />We follow Antipas' and Luke's correspondence, which begins with a chance introduction.  As Antipas reads Luke's Gospel, he discusses it at first from a very Roman point of view.  But as he reads more and begins to spend time with Christians of his city, Antipas gradually sees the faults in his Roman upbringing, his pagan worldview.  He is drawn to Jesus both through the writings of Luke and through the witness and lives of the Christians with whom he fellowships.  Ultimately, he joins them and dies the truly noble death of a martyr.  (The reference to the death of Antipas in Rev. 2:13 is the inspiration of the story).   <br /> <br />The value of this book is that it places the reader in the early Christian world like nothing else I have ever read.  Longenecker has taken all the books about New Testament History, Jewish history, and the larger Roman world of the time, and used them to create an authentic exchange of late first century correspondence between a pagan and a Christian.  Beyond the obvious monotheism v. paganism, Longenecker does an excellent job of bringing out the differing attitudes of Roman and Christian charity.  Of Christian brotherhood and its foreignness to the Roman world.  Of the worship of the emperor.  In short, Longenecker does an effective job of placing the reader back into the Roman world and communicating the challenges that Christians faced in it (especially Christians of any social standing).   <br /> <br />This book is emotionally moving at times, especially in its depictions of Christian charity in a harsh world.  It is also an easy read.  It does not get bogged down and you find yourself looking forward to seeing how Luke responds to one of Antipas' questions or comments.  Or how Antipas responds to certain passages he reads in Luke's Gospel.  Unlike some historical fiction, it does not have moments of preachiness or contrived depictions intended to prove a point.   <br /> <br />Very enjoyable.  And, very profitable.	2004-11-07
US	16905832	R216JOWJ89G67Q	0889466165	290503851	Assessing the New Testament Evidence for the Historicity of the Resurrection of Jesus (Studies in the Bible and Early Christianity) (Studies in the Bible & Early Christianity)	Books	5	22	22	N	Y	Broad and In Depth -- Craig Delivers a Powerful Case	William L. Craig is probably the leading Christian apologist for the historicity of the resurrection.  He has several popular treatments available, the most recent being The Son Rises.  Although I have benefitted from these treatments, I wanted to see the more detailed and in-depth research behind these popularizations.  So I forked over the money and bought it.  Did it live up to my hopes and the price I paid?  Yes.  Worth every penny.      This book is, in essence, a passage-by-passage discussion of the historicity of the New Testament passages dealing with Jesus' resurrection.  Craig has spent a great deal of time conducting research in Europe and it shows.  At over 400 pages, Craig uses every bit of space to cram in informed discussion.  He interacts with a tremendous amount of European and U.S. research, from all sides of the discussion.  You would be hard pressed to find so much ground covered with so much familiarity.      After a brief preface, Craig spends about 150 pages dealing with the Pauline evidence for the resurrection.  He makes a compelling case for the early origins of Paul's formulaic recitation of the 1 Cor. 15 tradition about the death, burial, resurrection and appearances of Jesus to various witnesses.  There is also a convincing and thorough examination of the nature of Jesus' resurrection body in Paul's letters--a physical resurrected body.  This discussion should be enough to drive a steak through the heart of the lingering skepticism that clings to the belief that Paul believed only in a \\"spiritual\\" resurrection (which is, a Craig shows, a contradiction in terms).      After wrapping up the Pauline evidence, Craig turns to the Gospels and continues his methodical, passage-by-passage discussion of the evidence.  As with the rest of the book, you will be hard pressed to find one scholar who engages so many different theories and approaches in one book.  Finally, Craig wraps it up and makes his case for the resurrection.  Those who have readone of Craig's popular books or even heard him in a debate will immediately see the origins of those treatments.  It was nice to see how well the research and background supporting the final argument actually fit together.      Despite all this praise, I must provide a few notes of caution.  The substance of the book is excellent, but the presentation leaves much to be desired.  It looks like it was cranked out on an ancient type writer.  The lines are sometimes wavy and the Index appears to be off by a few pages on at least some subjects.  Nevertheless, I give this book my highest recommendation as a tremendous resource on the resurrection.      Note:  I have learned that my copy of the book was an older edition.  The print and index have been improved for later editions.	2004-10-21
US	16905832	R1D3PF7N00E529	0800612485	539813113	The Resurrection according to Matthew, Mark and Luke	Books	3	4	8	N	N	Interesting Analysis, but starts in the wrong place	After reading The Resurrection by Norman Perrin, I can definitely say that he knows a lot.  A lot about Greek literature and a lot about these gospels.  He especially knows a lot about how the synoptic gospels differ from each other.  And that is the focus of his book.  Perrin attempts to understand how each views the resurrection of Jesus by focusing on how they differ from each other.  Unfortunately, due to the substantive and methodological problems in his analysis, Perrin usually ends up engaging in undue speculation (however well informed) or stating the obvious.   <br /> <br />First, by building his case on how much the synoptic gospels differ instead of how each presents the resurrection as a whole, Perrin skews his analysis to highlight the different emphasis.  This problem is highlighted by the length of the book--which weighs in at 84 pages of text and only refers to six sources (2 of which are other works by Perrin).   <br /> <br />Second, Perrin does not include any discussion of the Gospel of John.  To his credit, Perrin is frank about this and explains that it is because he lacks the requisite expertise.  Even so, if the focus is on how different Christian authors, and presumably communities, viewed and retold the story of the resurrection, any analysis that simply ignores the Gospel of John is denying itself an important part of the picture. <br /> <br />Third, Perrin does not give much time to discussing the earliest presentation of the resurrection in the letters of Paul, except for a few pages in his conclusion.  Even then he does not really work them into the picture of understanding the gospels in light of how the earliest Christian writings and formula understood the resurrection.  Again, this seems to be denying the analysis much needed data.   <br /> <br />Fourth, because Perrin starts with the Gospel of Mark and focuses on how Matthew and Luke differ from Mark, his analysis can only be as good as his conclusions regarding Mark.  And here it appears there are significant flaws.  Though Perrin concedes much of the argument that the original version of Mark did not end at 16:8 is strong, he nevertheless concludes that it did indeed end there.  Additionally, Perrin argues that Mark envisions no resurrection appearances at all!  Even though Perrin concedes that Mark's readers were aware of stories of such appearances.  What about Mark's statement that Jesus will meet his followers in Galilee?  Perrin does not think this refers to Jesus appearing to the disciples there (as Matthew reports).  Rather, to Perrin \\"Galilee\\" is code word for the mission to the gentile nations.  This all seems rather unlikely, especially if we give any place to Paul's letters in the analysis.  These, in my opinion, foundational errors set the entire program off on the wrong foot--no matter how intelligent or informed the rest of Perrin's discussion. <br /> <br />All in all, Perrin's book does a good job of pointing out differences between the synoptic gospels and their treatment of the resurrection.  The analysis of the significance of those differences rests on some assumptions/conclusions that prove to be unpersuasive.  And much data -- such as Paul's letters and the Gospel of John -- are sacrificed to the further detriment of the enterprise.  Still, the price is right and informed speculation can be helpful in trying to sort out the gospels and the resurrection.  Just recognize the limitations of this particular analysis.	2004-10-16
US	16905832	R3NEVNPRR8SBBA	1579101828	553077867	Abortion and the Early Church: Christian, Jewish and Pagan Attitudes in the Greco-Roman World	Books	4	34	38	N	Y	An Excellent Resource, but Loses it in the Final Chapter	Though weighing in at a mere 101 pages of text, Abortion & the Early Church is an excellent overview on early Christianity's attitudes on that subject.  Gorman examines the Pagan, Jewish, and Christian attitudes on abortion, spending more chapters breaking down Christian attitudes into the first three centuries and the fourth and fifth centuries.  He then wraps up with two final paragraphs.  One that rounds off the discussion of where Christian attitudes about abortion came from.  Gorman concludes that Christian attitudes were heavily influenced by its Jewish history, but given Jesus' teachings on love and peace turned out to be more adamantly anti-abortion than the Jews.  I suspect there is merit to this argument, but also think that much of Christianity's strong anti-abortion stance was due to its direct encounter with the pagan world.  Even Jews in the diaspora tended to have their own communities and live amongst themselves.  But many Christians were not only converted pagans, they were intent on spreading their own religion even deeper into Roman society.  Such clashes tend to sharpen differences.<br /><br />Up until this point, I benefitted from every part of the book -- even if I was not convinced on every point.  Gorman does a good job of providing primary sources about pagan, Christian, and Jewish attitudes on abortion.  He also does a good job of explaining those sources and spends much good analysis not only on what the attitudes on abortion were, but what the core of the issue really was.  For example, was abortion criticized because it was an impediment to procreation, a means of covering up sexual immorality, a threat to the woman's life as well, or as the killing of a human life?  (for Christians it seems all of these were mentioned, but the driving concern was the humanity of the fetus).  Nevertheless, Gorman lost a star because his final chapter swerves into very 80s territory as he launches an assault on those pro-life Christians who are pro-strong national defense, pro-capital punishment, and not strong enough on the issue of gun control.  Up to this point, his discussion was unemotional, logical, even systematic.  Not so here.  He comes across as a man struggling to reconcile his personal liberal political beliefs with his strong pro-life beliefs.  His solution it to blast both sides.  Beyond its obvious tangential nature, this diabtribe is out of place because it -- unlike his excellent discussion of early Christian views on abortion -- is built not on Christian history but on his own emotional biases.<br /><br />Nevertheless, on the issue of abortion, this is one of the best values out there for understanding what the Church has believed on this subject -- it was immoral.  And perhaps more importantly, why it believed what it did -- it was the taking of an innocent human life.national defense, pro-capital punishment, and not strong enough on the issue of gun control.  Up to this point, his discussion was unemotional, logical, even systematic.  Not so here.  He comes across as a man struggling to reconcile his personal liberal political beliefs with his strong pro-life beliefs.  His solution it to blast both sides.  Beyond its obvious tangential nature, this diabtribe is out of place because it -- unlike his excellent discussion of early Christian views on abortion -- is built not on Christian history but on his own emotional biases.<br /><br />Nevertheless, on the issue of abortion, this is one of the best values out there for understanding what the Church has believed on this subject -- it was immoral.  And perhaps more importantly, why it believed what it did -- it was the taking of an innocent human life.	2004-09-25
US	16905832	R1W3K1DTGNX7H	1579104649	255148340	The Son Rises: Historical Evidence for the Resurrection of Jesus	Books	4	32	34	N	N	Proving the Resurrection -- Craig Brings it All Together	William L. Craig is perhaps the best-known apologist for the resurrection of Jesus.  He set out his argument in detail in a book that unfortunately now costs well over $100.  He has contributed articles on the resurrection to books like In Defense of Miracles and Jesus Under Fire.  One of his debates on the resurrection has been converted into a book, Jesus' Resurrection.  What has been missing, and what this book provides, is a single volume treatment of Craig's argument for the historicity of Jesus.  The book is written for the layperson and weighs in at about 150 pages with relatively few references.  As a popularization of Craig's argument, it is success. <br /> <br />Craig begins with an introduction to the issues and a refutation of some popular counter theories, such as the apparent-death theory and the wrong-tomb theory.  It seems odd placement given that he has not stated his case-in-chief, but Craig discusses them in terms of historical approaches to the resurrection.  On one hand it adds some interesting historical context, but it still seems a little out of place.   <br /> <br />The meat of the book is in the next two chapters, on the Empty Tomb and the Appearances of Jesus.  Craig offers ten points supporting the historical fact of the empty tomb, beginning with \\"The historical reliability of the account of Jesus' burial supports the empty tomb\\" to \\"The fact that Jesus' tomb was not venerated as a shrine indicates that the tomb was empty.\\"  Most of the arguments are persuasively presented, though I wish all apologists would leave the Shroud aside.  But in the end, Craig adequately explains the reasons that most scholars, from diverse backgrounds, accept the empty tomb as historical fact.   <br /> <br />The section on the Appearances of Jesus begins by demonstrating their historicity and then examines their explanations.  He first shows that Peter, the Twelve, the five hundred, James, the apostles, and Paul did indeed experience appearances by Jesus.  Craig then moves through the potential explanations and concludes that the best explanation for these appearances is that they were indeed real events, interactions with a living and breathing restored Jesus.  <br /> <br />Craig caps off his argument with a discussion about the resurrection's role as the best explanation for the Origin of the Christian Faith itself.  He then concludes with a scholarly alter call, explaining the meaning of the resurrection of Jesus as the way to reconcile ourselves to God and gain forgiveness of our sins.   <br /> <br />This book is typical of Craig.  He moves through the material very methodically, laying out his arguments in an informed and convincing manner--step by step.  He covers aspects of the argument in other publications in more depth or with more references, but The Son Rises is beneficial in that it brings the core of his argument, and the significance of his conclusion, together in one small book.	2004-09-07
US	16905832	R3LD5WL3V7WGWT	080541097X	159009696	Paul and His Letters	Books	3	20	26	N	N	Covers a Lot of Ground, but Not In Much Depth	Paul and His Letters is something of a hybrid.  On one hand its a Pauline history, in the vein of Bruce's Apostle of the Heart Set Free, and on the other hand it offers commentaries on all of Paul's epistles.  Taken as a whole I do not think the format is a complete success, but Polhill knows his stuff and has a lot to offer the layperson.      The history of Paul is ably covered, with Polhill discussing Paul's background, conversion, and missionary activites.  On occasion he offers some insights not always emphasized by others, such as the unique inclusion of the Greek proverb about kicking \\"against the goads\\" only when giving his testimony to a very hellenized client-king.      The discussion of each letter covers most of the bases, but not in much depth.  Still, in addition to questions of authorship, he covers many notable issues, such as whether Philemon is actually three redacted into one and the authorship of 2 Thessalonians.  But you do not get anywhere near the depth of discussion you do in most commentaries devoted to one or two letters.  There is no passage-by-passage analysis and little discussion of the Greek text.  Again, a helpful introduction, but not much more.    Though I realize Polhill is accomplishing a lot in one book, I wish he had spent more time on some issues of particular importance.  One example is his dismissive attitude towards the early authorship of Galatians.  He notes the theory, but sets it aside with little explanation.  Such an issue seems crucial not only to the Pauline chronology but to understanding one of Paul's most important letters--The Epistle to the Galatians.  Still, it is the price of admission for covering so much ground in one book.       If you are looking for a broad overview of Paul and a broad introduction to each of his letters, all in one book, Paul and His Letters fits the bill.  Otherwise, you might want to shell out the money and buy a few books on the same subjects.	2004-08-27
US	16905832	R3DJ5FIPXL464R	0825427886	718985488	The Case for the Resurrection of Jesus	Books	4	137	147	N	Y	Equipping Believers to Evangelize the Resurrection	To be candid, I am not a fan of most popular apologetics -- especially on the resurrection.  But when I saw that this book was 384 pages long, I thought it was perhaps an exception and would cover the issue in more detail than others.  I was wrong.  So why do I still rank this book so high?  Because it does what it intends to do effectively.      This book effectively equips Christians to witness to their friends, neighbors, and families using the historical evidence for the resurrection of Jesus.  Habermas and Licona begin with a discussion about the importance of the resurrection of Jesus to Christianity.  Though this seems obvious, the discussion is helpful because it wisely recommends focusing on the resurrection without getting bogged down in, presumably, issues such as inerrancy and a complete harmonization of the resurrection narratives.  This is a common failing of Christians trying to share their faith.  The authors' emphasis on keeping the eye on the ball extends throughout the book.     After the opening chapter, the book turns to the core of the issue, the historical evidence for the resurrection of Jesus.  The strength of this section is that it distills down, accurately, a high level of scholarship on the issue.  Habermas and Licona present five \\"minimal facts.\\"  That is, they focus on five historical facts that are accepted by most scholars:      1)  Jesus' death by crucifixion;   2)  Jesus' disciples believed that he rose and appeared to them;  3)  Paul, a persecutor  of the church, has suddenly changed to faith in Jesus;  4)  James, skeptical of Jesus during his ministry, was suddenly changed to faith in Jesus; and,  5)  The tomb of Jesus was empty.     No. 4 is perhaps more disputed than Habermas and Licona discuss (and by far the least important of the five), but the rest of the discussion accurately represents the state of historical scholarship.  Although their discussion will not supplant the more probing discussions of N.T. Wright or William L. Craig, it will equip the reader to accurately present to their friends, neighbors, and family the persuasive historical evidence for the resurrection of Jesus.  They fit their \\"minimal facts\\" together effectively to present a strong case for the resurrection of Jesus.      Most of the rest of the book deals with various objections to the resurrection.  This includes the usual suspects, such as the hallucination theory or the forgotten grave site.  But it also includes others that scholars tend to ignore but which actually pop up in real conversation, such as whether Jesus could have been an alien (don't laugh, I've heard that one) and how do we know that even if there was a resurrection that God had anything to do with it.  Their response effectively focuses on the context of Jesus' ministry and claims about himself.      There are a few sections that appear out of place, such as the discussion of near death experiences and even the section about the existence of God.  But the book closes with its strength, a helpful discussion of how to take the knowledge conveyed by the book and convince others about the resurrection of Jesus.       Christians wishing to share effectively the core of their faith with those they care about will find this book very helpful.  And for that reason, I recommend it.	2004-08-26
US	16905832	R285894HS35O4F	080102451X	696441166	Studying the Historical Jesus: A Guide to Sources and Methods	Books	5	32	35	N	N	An Excellent Place to Start Studying the "Historical Jesus"	Bock is a respected, conservative New Testament scholar.  In Studying the Historical Jesus, he offers one of the most accessible introductions to the study of the \\"Historical\\" Jesus.  If you have simply read your New Testament your entire life and are now curious about its background, origins, and the history behind it.  Or if you have had little exposure to the New Testament and wonder what it is all about, historically speaking.  This book delivers.   <br /> <br />The Introduction opens with brief discussions of sources relevant to the study of the historical Jesus, including the Old Testament, the Apocrypha, the Pseudepigrapha, the Dead Sea Scrolls, Philo, and Josephus.  Each is only a few paragraphs long but explains well the source and its relevance to studying Jesus.  The main event of the Introduction, however, is his run down on each of the Canonical Gospels.  Bock delivers solid discussions of each, including their structure, unique emphasis, authorship, and date.  Not surprisingly, Bock's conclusions are traditional.   <br /> <br />Bock also delivers a chapter on the Nonbiblical evidence for Jesus, ably covering the \\"usual suspects\\" of Josephus, Thallus, Tacitus, and company.  Next there is an informative discussion about the chronology of Jesus' life.  Bock nondogmatically discusses the various alternatives about when Jesus was born, how long his ministry was, and the date of his death.  Thereafter, Bock delivers a helpful general history of the Greek and Roman empires, and then a more focused discussion on the geography, population, and culture of first century Palestine.   <br /> <br />In Part 2 of his book, Bock moves into a more argumentative tone as he discusses and criticizes the search for the \\"historical Jesus.\\"  There is a helpful history highlighting the key players and their theories in the three \\"quests\\" for the historical Jesus.  Bock then summarizes five systemic problems in historical Jesus research, including an undue skepticism of narratives or sayings that are similar to Old Testament narratives and sayings, and inadequate historical attention being given to Luke's special material, Matthew's special material, and the Gospel of John.  The criticisms are well taken and receive insufficient consideration in most New Testament research.   <br /> <br />Next Bock devotes chapters to several methods of historical inquiry as applied to the New Testament:  Historical Criticism, Source Criticism, Form Criticism, Redaction Criticism, Tradition Criticism, and Narrative Criticism and Gospel Genre.  The discussions are well done, defining each as well as emphasizing the strengths and weaknesses inherent to each disciple.  Bock is no reactionary.  He sees a role for each in researching and understanding the New Testament and Jesus, but appropriately chides much modern \\"historical Jesus\\" studies as overly skeptical.   <br /> <br />In sum, Bock has delivered an excellent resource for those interested in looking into the unfamiliar ground of New Testament criticism or studying the \\"historical\\" Jesus.  Indeed, this would be one of the first books I would recommend to any such person.	2004-08-23
US	16905832	R16R0E1C5780XR	0310484901	991261870	1 Corinthians (The NIV Application Commentary)	Books	3	9	16	N	N	New Testament Scholar as Pastor	I have mixed reactions to The NIV Application Commentary series.  The theory behind the series is that most commentaries simply take the reader back to the first century, whereas this one brings the first century into the present.  To accomplish this goal, this series has three sections for each set of passages:  Original Meaning, Bridging Contexts, and Contemporary Significance.  But the introduction itself seems to admit there is no real distinction between Bridging Contexts and Contemporary Significance.  (\\"[T]here is not always a sharp distinction or a clear break between this section and the one that follows\\").  At other times, Bridging Contexts provides some interesting materials, such as how the passage has been interpreted at other times in church history.      The introduction is helpful, but short.  The Original Meaning sections are consistently good, but sometimes seemed to shortchange the topic to make way for the other two sections.  Blomberg is a first rate scholar, so I am always interested in his discussions on New Testament documents.  Unfortunately, I was not aware of the emphasis of this series on contemporary significance.  If I had been, I probably would have taken a pass on it.  Having bought and read it, my opinion has not changed much.  Perhaps the problem is that New Testament scholars do not necessarily make good pastors/priests/reverends.  But perhaps the problem is really trying to convert the entire letter into today's world in a vacuum, that is, without a context or specific inquiry.	2004-08-22
US	16905832	R328WR78RAWVWO	0800632729	499061509	Introducing the New Testament	Books	5	29	29	N	N	Combining the Best of NT Histories with NT Introductions	John Drane's Introducing the New Testament is impressive for what it is and isn't.  Drane has managed to combine the readability of the more narrative New Testament Histories with the scholarly depth of an Introduction to the New Testament.  And instead of ending up with the weakness of both, he merged their respective strengths.  As a result, Introducing the New Testament is highly readable and very informative, even as to issues such as the Synoptic Problem and the dating and authorship of the Gospels and other New Testament documents.      As with a New Testament History, Drane opens up by providing background material on the broader world out of which Christianity grew, including the Greek heritage, the mystery religions, Judaism, and Palestine.  He then narrates through Jesus' birth and early years, his ministry, his death, and the resurrection.  There is an excellent side discussion on dating Jesus' birth.      In the next section, Drane spends more time exploring Jesus' precise message.  The focus of the discussion is, appropriately, Jesus' declaration of the Kingdom of God.  After this able discussion, Drane moves on to focusing on the four gospels themselves.  I was impressed with the sophistication of many of his points regarding authorship, dating, and historicity.  Though not presented with the footnotes and scholarly references that an Introduction would, it is obvious that Drane is conversant with a wide range of opinions and is writing from a high level of knowledge and understanding.  One of the outstanding features of this section is his side discussion on \\"Identifying the authentic words of Jesus.\\"  Therein he identifies the main criteria of testing the historicity of Jesus's sayings, and identifies the problems and limitations with such an endeavor.  According to Drane, the entire enterprise is premised on the problematic assumption that there was a high level of creativity in the early Church.      Drane next moves on to the spread of Christianity throughout the Roman world, including an excellent treatment of the dating of Acts.  He also covers Paul the Apostle's activities, with solid discussions of each of his letters.  There is a helpful discussion of the early church's recognition of the New Testament and first-rate discussions of the remaining books of the Bible (especially James and Hebrews).      Though the serious scholar may miss the footnotes and citations that commentaries and New Testament Introductions provide, the beauty of this book is that it delivers much the same sophistication and information of those works to the layperson.  And it does so in an entertaining manner that does not get stale or tedious.	2004-08-20
US	16905832	R5BZ70BNXRPED	0060731583	486983213	AMERICAN SOLDIER	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Much More Than You Are Expecting	I picked up this book to gain an insider's view of the events leading up to the Afghan and Iraqi Wars, as well as the conflicts themselves.  I was not disappointed.  We follow Gen. Franks through the planning of each conflict, his backs and forths with Bush and Rumsfeld, to the execution and aftermath of them.  Franks does not appear to have left anything of importance out and provides an incredible amount of insider's knowledge on these topics.      But what I was very pleasantly surprised by was the more biographical, early parts of the book.  Usually with books like this, I patiently trudge through overly dramatized childhoods, life challenges, and boring anecdotal stories from the author's past that have nothing to do with why you want to read about them.  Not so here.  Gen. Frank's childhood is a pleasant read, and though it had its challenges, his love for his family and the lessons learned from them comes through in touching sincerity.  Nor does he make many excuses for his lackluster early college years (flunking out of UT!) or his sometime shoddy treatment of his wife-to-be.  This is not Oprah stuff, but he certainly is not glamorizing these aspects of his life.      The book gets even more interesting as Gen. Franks joins the army and finds his footing in life.  This is obviously what he was meant to do.  We follow him through Vietnam, into the post-Vietnam military and its problems with morale and drug use, to the revitalization of the military's purpose, morale, and abilities in the 80s.  Following Gen. Franks as he advances through the ranks is like reading a short history of the U.S. Army.  A very interesting section.    Which brings us to what made Gen. Franks famous. The Wars.  As I indicated above, they are well written and highly informative.  What is even more interesting is the apparent lack of media interest into what someone so vital to so much controversy has to say about the events.  The likely explanation is that the book portrays Bush in too favorable a light and does not add to the perception of scandal or failure or a rush to war.  Far from it in fact.      Bush is shown to be a decisive, but deliberate war time President.  There is no rush to war against Iraq at the expense of Afghan operations.  Although Iraq was discussed on many occasions, and contingency planning started early, Afghanistan was the first item of the agenda.  The conversations moved to Iraq only after the President and Rumsfeld were satisfied with the progress in Afghanistan (though this obviously shifted once troops were put in harms way).  The President is shown to be committed to diplomatic pressure but unwilling to let Iraq off the hook when diplomacy failed to gain assurances that there were no WMDs.      Richard Clark is shown to be mostly a big talker who had almost nothing practical to offer.      The belief that Iraq had WMDs is shown to be absolutely sincere.  From Bush on down the biggest concern about Iraqi Freedom was that Hussein would use chemical and biological weapons against the troops.  Indeed, Gen. Franks reveals that several heads of neighboring Arab states claimed that they knew Iraq had WMDs and would use them.  Franks is not afraid to name some of them and describe their warnings.  ...    ...    Well-written, informative, timely, and candid, I highly recommend this book.	2004-08-20
US	16905832	R31WYOGAKFUPE0	0802801242	773619254	Paul: Follower of Jesus or Founder of Christianity?	Books	5	23	25	N	N	A Sober Inquiry Into a Nagging Question	This is the most thorough discussion of Paul's relationship with the teachings and life of Jesus available for the layperson.  Wenham has struck a masterful balance between scholarly discussion and accessibility.  No one should be intimidated by this book, but they also need not fear that they are missing out on relevant issues.     A real strength of this book is the seriousness with which Wenham approaches the issues.  Discovering what, if anything, Paul knew and carried on from Jesus is not a simple matter.  One cannot just throw scriptures at a wall and hope that as much sticks as possible (he even includes a section on avoiding what he calls \\"parrallelomania\\").        To his credit, Wenham spends the first 30 pages + framing the issue.  He candidly admits that Paul rarely refers explicitly to Jesus's teachings or ministry.  He notes that the two usual explanations for this, that Paul either did not know much about Jesus or assumed that his audience knew much about Jesus, fail -- standing on their own -- to explain the situation satisfactorily.  But as Wenham points out, there is an even larger issue.  To what extent is Paul's message consistent with or the same as Jesus'?  Given Paul's influence on Christianity and these questions, Wenham takes no offense about the question that entitled the book:  Was Paul a Follower of Jesus or Founder of Christianity?    To make his comparison, Wenham does not simply take Gospel verses and compare them to Pauline verses.  Instead, he probes underneath to determine what Jesus' message, for example, regarding the Kingdom really was.  Then he does the same with the Pauline letters.  Only then does he make his comparison.  Wenham finds many points of contacts, such as Jesus' use of Abba, the Last Supper narrative (notably determining that the Lukan version was most likely used in the Pauline churches), Jesus' teachings on divorce and paying ministers, and others.  He concludes the book with a very helpful summary.  Because he covers so much ground, the summary neatly provides the answer to the question raised by the title of the book:  \\"Paul saw himself as the slave of Jesus Christ, not the founder of Christianity.  He was right to see himself in that way.\\"    This book is an excellent resource for anyone interested in the relationship between Paul and Jesus.  If you want answers instead of polemics or simplistic reassurances, then you will benefit from this book.	2004-08-19
US	16905832	R2LKQAGERE13IJ	1400041996	315702599	The Iraq War	Books	3	11	11	N	N	A Broad Overview that Lacks Soul	Having read many books by Keegan I expected this one to be first rate.  I was disappointed.  It is not that this book is poorly written.  Keegan writes with a good style.  The problem is that -- with the exception of some background material -- I did not really learn anything about the Iraq War that I did not already know from watching the news, reading the papers, and reading a couple of the books by imbedded reporters.   <br /> <br />Keegan begins with several chapters of background material on Iraq and Saddam Hussein.  We follow Hussein from his time as a hack thug for the Baath party and follow his rise to ultimate power in Iraq.  Keegan then provides a background that takes us up to the Iraq War.  This section is clearly written and, thankfully, nonpolemic.  As Keegan describes the events leading up to the war, you get the impression that he likely approved of the decision to go to war, but he is certainly no apologist for the War.  But he does make clear that Hussein was not in compliance with the UN Resolutions.   <br /> <br />It is when the book moves into the Iraq War that I started feeling deja vu.  It was like getting the same information I had gathered while the war was going on.  He covers the movement of U.S. and British forces in rather broad strokes.  Episodes I had hoped to learn more about were glossed over with a sentence or two.  One example is the apparently ill-fated Apache assault on the Medina Division.  Though only one aircraft was lost, almost all were damaged and -- judging by news reports -- failed to accomplish their objective.  I had hoped to get more information from Keegan about this assault and gain the insights of perhaps the leading military historian about the implications for modern warfare.  But I did not.   <br /> <br />All is not bleak.  The book is a good overview of the war.  There are some interesting points made about America's approach to logistics and Britian's approach to urban warfare.  But the only reason I expended the money I did was because I thought Keegan would deliver more than he did.	2004-08-18
US	16905832	R91ZHDEF082ZN	0830815287	713961934	In Defense of Miracles: A Comprehensive Case for God's Action in History	Books	4	24	25	N	N	Covers the Bases Well	Aptly named \\"A Comprehensive Case,\\" this book builds from the foundational issues and works its way up to the crowning miracle of Christendom -- the resurrection of Jesus.  However, if you are looking for explorations of modern miracles or similar evidence, this is not the book you want.     It is to the editors credit that their first chapter is given to two who deny the possibility of miracles (and/or their detection).  Taking David Hume's infamous chapter, \\"On Miracles,\\" as the opening salvo, In Defense adequately sets the stage for the debate.  Hume's arguments continue today in full force.  They have by no means lost their influence.  But lest you think these Christian apologists are setting up an outdated strawman, another section is given to contemporary atheist philosopher Anthony Flew to voice his comments on Hume as well as miracles.      With the opposition in place, four Christian writers begin making the philosophical case for the possibility that miracles exist and can be detected.  A section on defining miracles is a welcome narrowing of the issue.  Then Norman Geisler persuasively takes Hume and Flew head on and Francis Beckwith wrestles with the possibility of detecting miracles in history.  The closing chapter in this section deals with \\"Recognizing a Miracle\\" and is also helpful in narrowing the issue.      The next set of chapters provides additional philosophical justification for believing in the possibility of miracles as well as their detection, including an aggressive assault on metaphysical naturalism by Ronald Nash and a brief argument for the existence of God.  The main goal of this chapter is to establish the existence of a God who can and is inclined to act in human history.  In other words, a God who does miracles.  Overall this section succeeds in establishing its arguments and provides one more link in the chain of argument.      The final section rests on the shoulders of the previous chapters.  Given that philosophical objections to the possibility and detection of miracles are not sound, and that there likely is a God who can and is inclined to intervene, we now get the arguments that God has done just that.  Which makes it somewhat odd that this chapter leads off with an argument about \\"Miracles in the World Religions.\\"  This chapter is more effective in showing that Hume's argument about competing miracle traditions in various religions is not necessarily a valid objection than it is in exploring the competition in detail.  It probably belonged with the other chapters focusing on philosophy.  Then follows a chapter on fulfilled prophecy that provides an interesting discussion, but is too short to convince fence sitters.  After that, a chapter argues that the incarnation of Christ is not logically incoherent.  Interesting, but not something that most of us have spent much time contemplating.    By far the best case-specific arguments for miracles in the book are William L. Craig's chapter on the empty tomb and Gary Habermas' chapter on the resurrection appearances of Jesus.  Craig, used to having the whole argument to himself, adjusts well to tackling only the empty tomb.  He takes Crossan to task for his ill considered insistence that no crucifixion victim would have been buried at all (an argument disproved by the archeological find of the body of a crucified first century man in a family burial chamber near Jerusalem).  Habermas, who I have had  less exposure to, does a good job discussing the resurrection appearances of Jesus by focusing on the earliest reports referenced in Paul's first letter to the Corinthians.  The book then ends with a conclusion wrapping up the case for \\"God's Action in History.\\"    Overall, this book delivers what it promises -- a comprehensive defense of miracles.  Of course, any single chapter could itself be a book (and in fact, many chapters are books by the very same authors).  But this book clearly sets the stage, offers solid discussions of the underlyingphilosophy, and delivers some good arguments for believing that God has indeed acted in human history.	2004-08-18
US	16905832	R2XQUIPNJ5MTIU	0060608811	239091352	New Testament Background: Selected Documents: Revised and Expanded Edition	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Very Well Selected Documents on the background of the NT	A resource this expansive can only be successfully created by a scholar of the first rank.  Fortunately, C.K. Barrett is such a scholar.  He has written top commentaries on many of Paul's letters, as well as the Acts of the Apostles and the Gospel of John.      This book is exactly what it purports to be.  It provides a wealth of primary source evidence relevant to the culture and history in which New Testament arose.  All of it nonChristian.      Barrett organizes the material by topic and then provides the primary evidence relevant to each.  For example, for the Roman Empire he includes topics such as Augustus, Claudius, and Nero.  Under the topics, Barrett provides selections from the primary evidence relevant to each, such as Suetonius, Tacitus, and Dio Cassius.  He also leads off with an informative introduction to the topic.      The topics are:    The Roman Empire  Papyri  Inscriptions   Mystery Religion  The Philosopher and Poets  Jewish History  Rabbinic Literature and Rabbinic Judaism  Qumran  Philo  Josephus  Septuagint  Apocalyptic  Mysticism    Probably my favorite topic was the Mystery Religions.  Given some of the wilder claims being made about comparisons between the Mystery Religions and Christianity, it is helpful to see what we really know about the former.  Too often, references to what the Mystery Religions supposedly believed are to outdated secondary sources or from much later periods (which raises the more likely possibility that it was Christianity doing the influence).  Barrett brings a healthy dose of reality to the situation and enables us to read what the ancient sources themselves had to say about Mystery Religions.    However, all of the sections are very helpful and valuable resources for studying the New Testament and early Christianity.  Which makes this book a valuable addition your library.  I highly recommend it.	2004-08-18
US	16905832	R2AYO6NKWR8LZF	0802845010	22610209	The Acts of the Apostles : A Socio-Rhetorical Commentary	Books	5	94	97	N	N	Perhaps Witherington's Best -- One Stop Shopping for Acts	Perhaps Witherington's best work, and one of the best commentaries on Acts to date.      There simply are no weaknesses in this commentary.  It is well written and easy to read.  It covers all of the issues you would expect, and more.  It is up to date, engaging the most recent scholarship on Acts in an effective and informed manner.  The organization is first rate and its special notes are consistently interesting and informative.      Witherington begins with over 100 pages of introduction that begins where most commentaries should--the issue of genre.  Genre criticism is one of the underexplored areas of New Testament studies.  Not so here.  After exploring the prefaces in Luke and Acts, as well several categories of ancient historiography and examples of each, Witherington persuasively demonstrates that \\"Luke-Acts bears some strong resemblances to earlier Greek historiographic works in form and method of general arrangement of material, as well as some similarities to Hellenized Jewish historiography in content and genera apologetic aims.\\"  The introduction goes on to make a strong case for Lukan authorship and a date in the 70s or early 80s.  Another feature of the introduction that is somewhat unusual is discussions of Acts and Pauline chronology.  Though some may think this out of place, given the nature of Acts and its relationship with Paul's travels and letters, I enjoyed its content and placement.    The commentary on the text is excellent.  Acts and Paul are Witherington's areas of speciality and it shows.  He brings out the meaning of the text clearly and places it in its context.  His analysis of ancient rhetoric -- something Witherington has pioneered in his commentaries -- is very helpful and delivers a better understanding of the intent of the author's text and purposes.  Interspersed throughout the text are features titled, \\"A Closer Look.\\"  These sections delve deeper into issues raised by the main commentary, but are set apart and independently explored.  I love them.  They are topical, scholarly, and informative.  I would have bought the commentary for these sections alone.  The topics covered by \\"A Closer Look\\" are:    The Speeches in Acts  Luke's Use of the OT  Multiple Pentecosts  Salvation in Luke-Acts  Luke's Christology  The Summaries in Acts  Luke's Use of Sources in Acts  Lukan Eschatology  The Social Status and Level of the Early Christians  Miracles in Acts  Luke, Josephus, and Historical Reliability  The Hellenists  Synagogues?  Luke, Women, and Ministry  Gentile God-fearers--The Case of Cornelius  A Novel Approach to Acts  \\"The Way\\" and Other Religions:  Competition and Conflict  The Paul of Acts and the Paul of the Letters  Of \\"We\\" Passages and Sea Passages  Altars to Unknown Gods  Claudius, Jews, and a Religio Licita  Miracles and Magic in Antiquity and Acts  \\"Paul's Departure\\"   The Pauline Perils:  Travels and Travails in Antiquity  Paul and Lysias, Roman Citizens  Justice, Citizenship, and Appeals in the Provinces    Witherington concludes with two worthy Appendicies.  The first examines reasons for dating Galatians as the earliest of Paul's letters.  (Witherington is one of the leading proponents of this dating of Galatians).  The second is an examination of Luke's view of salvation in its first century setting.  Both are valuable additions to the commentary.      In short, no single commentary has ever added as much to my understanding of the New Testament book at issue as this one has for Acts.  I highly recommend it.	2004-08-17
US	16905832	R3TROQ5NJ5G7A6	0802801269	416188986	Risen Indeed: Making Sense of the Resurrection	Books	4	15	15	N	N	Broad in Scope and Excellent in Substance	In a field crowded by apologists, historians, and New Testament scholars, Stephen T. Davis may seem a bit out of place writing about the historicity of the resurrection of Jesus.  He is, afterall, a professor of philosophy.  As it turns out, his background in philosophy makes for a very gratifying book about the resurrection of Jesus (and the general resurrection of Christians).      Davis covers a lot of ground.  In Davis' own words, the book is \\"a somewhat eccentric mixture of philosophy, Christian theology, New Testament scholarship, and perhaps even preaching.\\"  He covers a lot of ground, but largely maintains its cohesiveness.  Though the structure is abrupt at one place, Risen Indeed effectively brings together the philosophy, theology, and apologetics related to the resurrection of Jesus.    In his first Chapter, Davis effectively engages the arguments of David Hume and Anthony Flew, which object on philosophical grounds to the possibility of evidencing miracles.  To his credit, Davis takes them more seriously than do most apologetics for the resurrection.  Additionally, Risen Indeed clearly makes important distinctions, such as the difference between \\"soft apologetics\\" and \\"hard apologetics\\", and the difference between a \\"soft miracle\\" and a \\"hard miracle.\\"  Davis concludes the chapter by noting that belief and denial of the resurrection of Jesus can be rational -- depending on the philosophical predisposition of the reader towards the possibility of a miracle.  This sifting through the issues is very helpful in setting up the rest of Davis' \\"soft apologetic\\" for the resurrection.    Chapters Two and Three also plow the ground for further discussion.  In a common-sense manner, Davis reduces the argument that we cannot examine the historicity of the resurrection because it is an event \\"outside of history\\" or \\"beyond historical inquiry.\\"  Such arguments in my opinion are simply dodges by historians afraid of upsetting the religious or the religious afraid of being proved wrong by the historians.  As Davis shows, the resurrection -- if it happened -- is a historical event that happened within time and space.  As a proposition, it is possible to investigate it in a historical manner.       Davis moves into the actual apologetic for Jesus' resurrection in Chapter Four--Resurrection and the Empty Tomb.  He begins by responding to common objections against its historicity and concludes by arguing for the reliability of the New Testament accounts and noting the difficulty the early Jerusalem Church would have had in proclaiming his resurrection had the tomb not been empty.  Both arguments are well made, but relatively brief.  For fuller defenses of the empty tomb the reader should take note of Davis' references.      The book then shifts gears.  Rather than proceed directly to the resurrection appearances or further evidence of Jesus' resurrection, Davis discusses basic Christian theology about the implications of Jesus' resurrection to the coming resurrection of Christians -- which, he argues, will be a similar, bodily resurrection.  The theology is sound, but makes a somewhat abrupt appearance.  Such considerations proceed for three chapters before we return to the direct apologetic for Jesus' resurrection.  Though a little out of place in sequence, these chapters are valuable discussions of resurrection theology.  Probably more interesting, however, to Christians than others.      Chapter Nine discusses the role of the resurrection in apologetics.  It reiterates some points earlier made, and delves into the question of Jesus' resurrection appearances and possible alternative explanations of the resurrection.  Davis' discussion is well done and effectively engages contrary views.  But again, this is not a work of New Testament criticism and consultation with more detailed sources will be helpful (such as N.T. Wright's The Resurrection of the Son of God).      Overall, this is an excellent book.  I would recommend it for anyone who is interested in understanding the nature of the reported resurrection of Jesus, the expected general resurrection of Christians, and the apologetics related to those events.  It better sets the philosophical stage for such explorations than any book I have read.	2004-08-17
US	16905832	R35MXO0X1FP74M	0849902347	211358482	Word Biblical Commentary Vol. 35a, Luke 1:1-9:20	Books	4	14	14	N	N	A Solid, Straight-Forward Commentary	Part of the World Biblical Commentary, John Nolland's commentary on Luke 1-9:20 is a solid, straight-forward contribution to the field.  The introduction covers the basics, concluding -- somewhat tentatively -- that Luke the companion of Paul is the author.  Nolland more firmly concludes that Luke was written between the late sixties and late seventies.  Though competent, the introduction is a more generalized treatment of the issues.  If you are looking for in-depth discussions of authorship and dating, then another commentary (Ellis or Fitzmyer) would probably serve you better. <br /> <br />The section by section discussion of the text is the strength of this commentary.  Each section is introduced with a helpfully extensive Bibliography unique to the topic at hand. Nolland then provides a translation of the text, followed by Form/Structure/Setting.  The latter discusses the outline of the section, as well as issues like sources and purpose.  This section is followed by the \\"Comment.\\"  A real strength, Nolland here moves through the section passage by passage with a consistent discussion of the Greek.  The focus on the Greek should not be intimidating, because Nolland handles it clearly.  Though some commentators neglect (or choose not) to provide the English translation of each specific Greek term, Nolland usually does, so the layperson can place the Greek in context as he reads through.  Also, Nolland often relates it to usage elsewhere in the New Testament and sometimes beyond.  All in all, the passage by passage exegesis and discussion is definitely above-average.   <br /> <br />Nolland concludes each section with an Explanation which brings all of his points together.   <br /> <br />Though not rich in \\"extras\\", this commentary is solid and a very helpful resource for studying the text of the Gospel of Luke.	2004-08-16
US	16905832	R13UE5YSQGJY58	0943575311	847871949	Luke	Books	3	6	9	N	N	You Get What You Pay For	Craig Evans is a well-respected New Testament scholar and this is one of the least expensive commentaries by someone of his caliber that you will find.  Even so, it remains true that you get what you pay for.     In a brisk introduction, Evans covers authorship, date, emphasis, relationship with the other canonical gospels, and basic outline.  He then moves through the text, section by section in brief overviews of each that have a few additional notes at the end.  As you would expect of someone of Evan's caliber, he often provides insight and overviews that are helpful to the layperson.  However, if you are a layperson who is a little more informed than the average, you will probably be better served by saving up a few bucks and buying a more expensive commentary.	2004-08-16
US	16905832	R1ACKGD8J2MCJC	0801010535	346143532	Luke 1:1-9:50 (Baker Exegetical Commentary on the New Testament)	Books	4	33	34	N	N	A Mess of Excellent Material, but Could Use Better Structure	There is much to like and much that is useful in Bock's commentary on the Gospel of Luke.  Bock obviously has done his homework.  One feature of his commentary that is first rate is that when he approaches difficulties in the text or areas where scholars disagree, Bock provides lists of the alternative explanations, who advocates them, and his view of their respective strengths and weaknesses.  If Bock does not see a clear winner, he is candid about it.      Bock's practice of providing clear explanation as to different approaches to the text or problems of history or sources extends to an excellent series of \\"Excursuses\\" at the end of the book.  Topics covered include the Census of Quirinius, Sources and Synoptic Relationships, The Genealogies of Matthew and Luke, and discussions about the Son of Man sayings.  Each section is well written and provides the reader with a clear picture of the possible conclusions.  Bock is more emphatic in his own conclusions in some sections than others.  This section greatly enhances his commentary.    Another feature that distinguishes this book from other commentaries on Luke is its focus on sources and historicity.  Bock spends more time on these issues, obviously linked in his mind, than most other commentaries.  He also highlights the discussions in their own sections.  Though they are well written, the degree of satisfaction I felt after reading each one varied.  Some left me wanting much more discussion.  I realize that there are space limitations in gospel-specific commentaries, but sometimes felt that Bock had bitten off more than he could chew.  Not that he could not handle the issues in an informed manner, but that he simply had insufficient space to do so.    The introduction is well written, but did not spend as much time on issues like authorship and dating than I would have liked.  I am sure Bock has more to offer on those issues.  Instead, the introduction spends more time dealing with specific topics in the Lucan text, such as Jerusalem:  The Innocent One Slain and Raised, Faith and Dependence, and Prayer.  Most commentaries introduce the reader to some of the gospel's authors theology and focus, but I thought some of these discussions would have been better served as Special Notes within the general discussion of the text, or as more Excursuses on the end.  This is simply an organizational preference of mine.  The sections are well written.    Finally, I have one other organizational criticism.  He usually begins his discussion of a particular set of passage with an overview of his opinions on the passages.  Then he discusses \\"Source and History\\", and includes an examination of the structure and outline of the passage.  Only then does he actually repeat the text in full in a section on \\"Exegesis and Exposition.\\"  Bock then includes a Summary and Additional Notes.  Placing the actual text in the middle of the discussion seemed odd to me and bugged me throughout.  Again, this is just an organizational, ergonomic, preference of mine.  The actual discussions were good.  I simply believe they could have been enhanced with a different organization.      Overall, though I have my organizational quibbles, a valuable commentary that exposes the reader to many different perspectives on and potential solutions to problematic passages in Luke.	2004-08-15
US	16905832	R2O7F7CARQASVM	0521495202	180545600	History, Literature, and Society in the Book of Acts	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A Fine Collection of Articles by the Best in the Field	Edited by Ben Witherington, this book offers some of the best scholarship on Acts I have read.  This is hardly surprising given the caliber of scholar that has gathered together, including C.K. Barrett, C.H. Talbert, Loveday Alexander, Richard Baukham, Joel Green, and Witherington himself.  But what really makes this compilation valuable is that first-rate scholarship is combined with cutting edge issues related to the study of Acts.  The book does not further one viewpoint, but intends \\"not to argue for the validity of any one particular point of view but to give the reader exposure to the variety of the pertinent current discussion, with sufficient bibliographic resources that one may pursue further study in an area of interest.\\"  (From the Preface).  This it does.   <br /> <br />The first set of articles discuss aspects of the genre of Acts and the relationship of Acts' genre to the historical method.  A number of informed perspectives are offered on the genre of Acts. My favorite article in this section is a provocative piece by J. Jervell.  Jervell argues that Acts was heavily influenced by the Jewish belief of salvation oriented historical perspective.  Thus he was influenced by Old Testament histories such as the Samuels and the Kings, as well as the Maccabean corpus.  Jervell argues that Luke even saw himself as writing scripture.  He makes his case so clearly that I found myself wondering why I had not thought of it before.   <br /> <br />The next set of articles deals with historical and theological difficulties in Acts.  Topics such as Luke's portrayal of the Jewish authorities and the nature of Luke's theology of the cross are ably discussed.   <br /> <br />The final set of articles deals with literary criticism.  Joel Green, a leading Lucan scholar, discusses the historical implications of some of the repetitive narratives in Acts.  Another of my favorite articles in this collection is in this section.  By Ben Witherington, the article provides an excellent discussion about applying the lessons learned about the author of Acts from the study of his redacting activities in the Gospel of Luke.  His conclusion is sound:  \\"What we learn from such an exercise is that Luke did not likely engage in free composition of his material, even the speech material, but rather drew on edited sources according to his various purposes and agendas.\\"   <br /> <br />To the student of the Acts of the Apostles, I highly recommend this study.  Although pricey, it provides well-written articles on often neglected topics by the best in the field.	2004-08-15
US	16905832	R3QJ7EO9VOPDAJ	1592442072	17451708	The Gospel of Luke:	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Simply the Best	E. Earle Ellis' commentary, The Gospel of Luke, is probably my favorite commentary on Luke.  Originally written in 1983, Ellis revised recently published a revised version in 2003.  Though not the most extensive treatment of the Gospel of Luke, Ellis writes with a clarity and flow that is persuasive and engaging.  He also writes with an exceptional command of the issues.  Combined, the writing style and informed nature of the discussion create a powerful commentary.  Ellis simply does not waste a word.   <br /> <br />My favorite part of the commentary is the 62-page introduction.  It begins with the \\"Literary Character\\" of Luke, including discussions on the unity of Luke-Acts, the language and style, and Luke's theology.  Ellis also devotes a few pages to examining the sources of Luke's gospel, including a helpful demonstrative separating out Q, Mark, and the L source.  The gem of the introduction, however, is the discussion of dating and authorship.  In perhaps the most lucid section of the book (which is saying much), Ellis flows through the material like a scholarly hot knife through warm butter.  While engaging much contemporary scholarship, Ellis evaluates the earliest traditions, earliest witnesses to the text, the author's eschatological perspective, and the \\"we passages.\\"  He concludes, reasonably, that the Gospel of Luke was written not too long after 70 AD by Luke, a sometime companion of Paul.  Objections to Lucan authorship are found unpersuasive.   <br /> <br />Ellis' discussion of the text of Luke is also excellent.   He moves through the text section by section, giving a discussion of the Background, Structure, and Teaching of each.  Ellis then expounds on ideas or words in the text with notes at the end of the section.  Some sections receive more detailed discussions and there are \\"Special Notes\\" on select subjects, such as the Nature and Date of the Last Supper and the Empty Tomb.  The latter is a very informative discussion on why the empty tomb appears to have become more important as Christianity developed.  Ellis convincingly explains that the empty tomb is just as primitive a tradition as the resurrection appearances, but became emphasized more as with the later development of gnosticism.   <br /> <br />I give this commentary my highest recommendation.	2004-08-14
US	16905832	RX1WGJQGKYJA4	0385500610	994003380	The Twilight of Atheism: The Rise and Fall of Disbelief in the Modern World	Books	5	136	180	N	N	Atheism as a Cultural/Sociolological Effect	Allister McGrath's The Twilight of Atheism is a thought provoking book no matter what your background.  This book is no polemic against atheism.  McGrath only mentions arguments for and against God on a few occasions, and then only to set them in their historical context and show the rise and decline of atheist philosophy.  And to be clear, by atheism McGrath means what many call \\"hard atheism.\\"  The deliberate, supposedly informed, affirmative belief that there is no God.      One of the strengths of the book is that McGrath does not hesitate to examine atheism as a cultural/philosophical development just as any other.  That is, he examines the cultural factors influencing its development and growth.  Though some atheists naively believe that atheism is simply a matter of applying logic and reason to see the obvious, this is an inadequate basis for explaining its origins and development as a philosophical movement.  This does not deny the possible truth of atheism any more than examining the cultural and historical factors that facilitated the rise of Christianity necessarily negates the truth of Christianity.  According to McGrath, one catalyst for atheist thought was the ongoing revolutionary attitudes across the board towards authority, including royal and ecclesiastical.  Christianity was seen as part of an oppressive establishment and atheism was a \\"liberating\\" intellectual force.  Religion, especially Christianity, was seen by many as an oppressive force and atheism was the vehicle of its destruction.      McGrath's overview of this period, and his closer examination of such atheists as Freud and Marx, is very helpful and makes the above points well.  He builds on these points to show that by the middle of the 20th century, atheism seemed on the verge of philosophical dominance in two forms.  Externally, by the vehicle of communism atheism had spread over almost a third of the world, apparently vanquishing religion in the previously Christian areas of Russiaand Eastern Europe.  Internally, atheistic philosophy seemed on the verge of similar successes in the West.  Symbolized by Time Magazine's famous cover page asking, \\"Is God Dead?\\"  The answer seemed to be yes, or almost nearly so.      But just when atheism seemed on the verge of victory, it collapsed.  Communism failed and was widely discredited by a recognition that it was an oppressive, not liberating force.  Though atheism had been brutally imposed on the people of Russia and Eastern Europe, it faded fast once the state vehicle of oppression was lifted.  Atheist numbers have dropped dramatically throughout former communist nations, and Christian numbers have surged.      In the West, atheism stumbled as well.  Christianity adapted, and largely through Pentacostalism/Charismaticism, revised itself into a potent and popular new movement.  In the third world nations of Latin America, Africa, and Asia, this movement supplanted Marxism in offering hope to the poor and oppressed.  Even in Western Europe, atheism lost its potency and transformed into a more neutral nonreligious attitude.      What happened?      First, as a reaction to the establishment, atheism was destined to lose potency once Christianity was no longer part of the establishment.  There is much to commend this argument.  This explains why atheism was never as popular in the United States--where religion was a matter of personal preference rather than state sanction.  If there was no oppressor, there is no need for a liberator.      Second, \\"hard\\" atheism has no more to commend it intellectually than theism.  According to McGrath, neither side can claim compelling evidential or philosophical argument for its position.  And because there seems to be something in humankind -- put their by God or by social factors -- that seeks a connection with spirituality or the divine, atheism loses what is intellectually a draw.  This point is no doubt controversial, for both sides.  I do not necessarily agree withit, but do recognize that because of predispositions and biases on both sides, the force of the argument for or against either position has not gained the upperhand.  With that being the case, religion does seem to fulfill a need in most people that atheism simply cannot.      Third, Christianity adapted--especially Protestantism.  As more of an intellectual movement than a mystical one, McGrath believes that Protestantism was especially vulnerable to atheism's arguments.  With the rise of spiritualism in the Protestant sects (through the Pentacostal and Charismatic movements), Protestantism adapted to the situation and made itself more attractive.  Again, there is much to commend this argument and I see it as an offshoot as the first one.  Christianity modified itself to be seen as liberator once again by the poor and oppressed--often offering a material and spiritual liberation for those who embrace it.      There seems to be some misunderstanding about what McGraw is claiming.  He does not claim that atheism is doomed to elimination.  There will be plenty of atheists.  Nor does he say that Christianity has won.  He frankly admits that the decline in Christianity in Western Europe appears to be long lived, though it has not given way to atheism, but to agnosticism and complacency.  What has not happened, but what seemed likely, is the victory of atheism as a philosophical force in Western Culture (and in communist nations.).      On a whole, The Twilight of Atheism is a thought provoking read.    More so than I expected.  There is much food for thought here for all sides to the debate.  As a plus, McGrath writes in an understandable and unpolemical manner, making this book very readable (though not particularly exciting).	2004-08-14
US	16905832	R1VGGF2H76H9P4	1565631544	617018315	Reading the Apostolic Fathers: An Introduction	Books	4	7	7	N	N	A Light Introduction	Introductions and Commentaries regarding the Apostolic Fathers can be stale, intimidating, or simply boring.  This is unfortunate given how important these writers can be for the study of the New Testament and early Christianity.  So it is fortunate that Reading the Apostolic Fathers, An Introduction, by Clayton N. Jefford is available. <br /> <br />In a section entitled \\"For the Reader\\" Jefford is quite clear on his goal, which is to provide a \\"quick and simple introduction\\" to the material.  As he notes, there are \\"other, more extensive surveys\\" available, but that \\"these tend to be expense, hard to obtain, or difficult to use except by specialists in early Church history.\\"  Most are out of print as well (thankfully this was remedied somewhat by the release of Michael Holme's The Apostolic Fathers).  To be clear, Jeffords does not include the complete texts of the writings themselves.  This is an introduction only.   <br /> <br />After an introduction focusing on just who the Apostolic Fathers were, Jeffords moves chapter by chapter through each one.  Starting with the Letter of Barnabas, Jeffords proceeds through The Didache, the Letters of Ignatius, the Letter of Polycarp, the Martyrdom of Polycarp, 1 Clement, 2 Clement, the Shepard of Hermas, and the Letter to Diognetus.  Each section discusses the surviving manuscripts, authorship, dating, provence, the \\"special traits\\" of the text, and the relationship to the Old and New Testaments.  Thereafter Jeffords provides an Outline of the writing, and a summary of its argument.  Finally, there is a list of more detailed commentaries.   <br /> <br />On the whole, a very helpful Introduction that fills its niche well.  It does not pretend to be more.	2004-08-14
US	16905832	R1IHBBISI1U3F6	0394511670	238893574	The History of American Wars	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Enjoyable in its Scope and Style	In The History of American Wars, T. Harry Williams takes us from the early wars of the colonies (The French and Indian War and skirmishes with the natives), through the Revolution, the War of 1812, the Mexican-American War, the Civil War, and finally World War I.  He differs from some other historians in that he is able to place the conflicts in their larger political and social context without getting bogged down in those areas.  He writes enough about them to give you the broader picture and causal relationships, but not so much that the book starts to drag.      Another aspect of this book that I enjoyed was the coverage he gives to the inter-war periods and attention to the broader development of weapons and tactics.  Chapters on the interludes that followed the Civil War and Spanish American War are just as interesting and informative as those about the wars themselves.  Williams is not just writing about interesting battles, he is showing how the United States developed as a nation and a military power through each conflict.  Not only in its techincal ability and organizational approach to armed conflict, but in its attitudes and opinions about the armed forces and military intervention.	2004-08-13
US	16905832	R390UDJIGVUWZC	1565636139	419162362	Paul in Acts (Library of Pauline Studies)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A Healthy Dose of Informed Discussion	In Paul in Acts, Porter contributes some excellent analysis to issues related to Paul and Acts.  He begins with informed and helpful  discussions about the \\"we passages.\\"  He does not come across as an advocate for \\"liberal\\" or \\"conservative\\" positions on Acts.  He stops short of concluding that the \\"we passages\\" are authorial, instead favoring the theory that these portions of Acts were derived from an earlier written source--probably by a companion of Paul.  Though his reasons for favoring a written nonauthorial source are lacking in my opinion, his analysis regarding certain radical approaches to the \\"we passages\\" is first rate.  Porter effectively refutes the notion that Acts is \\"Ancient Romance,\\" as advocated by Richard Pervo.  He then even more decisively refutes the lingering notion that the \\"we passages\\" were a common literaty device for narrating sea voyages, popularized by Vernon Robbins.      Porter also has a chapter on the Holy Spirit and Paul that is interesting, but seemed a little out of place given the selection of topics in the rest of the book.      Next, Porter turns his attention to the speeches in Acts.  The discussion is somewhat informative, but despite a paragraph on Thucydides, engages the comparative literature of the period less than I would have liked.  The strength of these chapters, however, is distinguishing between what we can learn about Paul's rhetoric from his letters as opposed to the reality of Paul's skills.  Porter does not believe that a comparison between Acts' depiction of Paul's speeches and the \\"rhetoric\\" of Paul's letters is a fair analysis.  But Porter gleans more from a comparison of the theology of Paul's letters to that of Paul in Acts, and finds that \\"there are greater theological commonalities . . . than is often admitted.\\"    Porter concludes with an excellent discussion of how the Paul of the letters  compares with the Paul in Acts.  Indeed, Chapter 9 is one of the best treatments I have read of this issue.  Though Porter recognizes that Acts was written with its own agenda and purpose, he debunks many of the usual lines of attacking Acts as inconsistent with the \\"historical Paul.\\"  Discussing topics ranging from Paul's mission and relations with Jews to his Christology and Eschatology, Porter shows again and again that many scholars have exaggerated (or manufactured) the tension between the Paul of Acts and the Paul of the letters.  Ultimately, Porter concludes that there is nothing about the supposed differences that precludes the author of Acts from having personally known Paul.      Just to dispell any expecatations, Porter spends little time on some issues you might expect to find in the book (judging it by its cover).  He spends little or no time discussing issues like Paul's Tarsus origins, his Pharisaic upbringing and training, his Roman citizenship or even his conversion.  What I described above is about all you get.  Of course, I think it is well worth the price and a valuable addition to my library on matters Paul and Acts.	2004-08-13
US	16905832	R1NZJSHZR3OTKU	1580420516	76678448	Winning Chess Openings: 2nd Edition (Learn 25 Essential Opening Strategies Today!)	Books	4	22	26	N	N	A Good Book for the Occasional Player	This book will not transform you into the next Bobby Fischer, but it is a great guide for the novice or the occasional chess player.  For me, I keep a chess set in my office and play some co-workers on occasion.  This simple little book greatly improved my play in a short time.   <br /> <br />Robertie begins with \\"Winning Ideas.\\"  With illustations of chess boards and pieces, he lays out the principles of development (getting your pieces out of their starting positions).  He also provides some helpful notes on Pawn Structure.  Being only an occasional player of chess, I found that these simple principles -- even apart from the later discussion of detailed Openings -- improved my play.   <br /> <br />Then the book moves on to chapters about Double King-Pawn openings and the Ruy Lopez, demonstrating such classics as Evans Bambit, The King's Gambit, and the Bishop's Opening.  A nice feature is that Robertie uses actual games from the greats to illustrate how particular openings may play out.   <br /> <br />But what if you play black?  Not to fear.  There are three chapters on defenses:  Black Half-Open Defenses, The Queen's Gambit, and The Indian Defenses.  All very helfpul.   <br /> <br />I'm sure the book will help novices seeking to move on the great and glorious chess play, but it seems ideal for the occasional chess player who wants to improve his game and memorize some solid ways to begin the game.	2004-08-13
US	16905832	R2JDAL45OODG76	0674750764	484623596	Rebecca's Children: Judaism and Christianity in the Roman World	Books	3	15	18	N	N	Two from One, but the Devil is in the Details	There is much to like about Rebecca's Children.  Alan Segal is a good historian and writer.  His thesis, that Rabbinic (Modern) Judaism and Christianity were both branches from Second Temple Judiasm, is well taken.  Christianity simply had more success with the Gentiles.  Segal's discussion about Judaism before and up to the time of Jesus is also very informative.  His discussion about the larger Roman world and its differences from Christianity and Judaism is first rate.      But when it comes to his analysis of early Christianity, he shows himself to be out of his element.  Segal insists that the only proper criteria for discovering what Jesus did and said is \\"dissimilarity.\\"  That is, the only things that Jesus did and said that we can be sure of is that which differed from the Judaism from which he came and the church which came from him.  While I agree that there is much value to this criteria, it cannot stand in isolation.  It is implausible to assume that Jesus learned and retained nothing of his rich Jewish heritage or that the Early Church learned and retained nothing from Jesus.  At the very least, Segal should leave some room for considering the criteria of coherence and multiple attestation.  I also think that, given how quickly early Christianity became a Gentile movement, features of it and its memories of Jesus that reflect authentic Judaism are likely authentic.     The most attractive feature about the book is that it is likely to reveal to Jews and Christians that they have much more in common than they may have realized.  However, to the extent that Segal attempts to reconstruct the historical Jesus and early Christianity, it leaves much to be desired.	2004-08-13
US	16905832	R7ESIR1BTNK8S	0800613783	333963611	The formation of the Resurrection narratives	Books	2	5	6	N	N	A Broad Approach that Leaps to Conclusions	The strength of this work is that it covers all of the New Testament sources of the resurrection narratives, meaning Paul's letters as well as the canonical Gospels.  There is also an appendix that discusses the resurrection appearances in some of the apocryphal gospels. Fuller is obviously competent and familiar with the material.  He finds redactions, exaggerations, conflations, and invention at every turn.  In fairness, though,  he also reaches conclusions more traditional, such that Luke had an independent source beyond Mark, that the Emmaus Road Story is based on earlier tradition, and that at least the report of the empty tomb by a women or women is historical.    The greatest weakness of this book is the leaps that Fuller takes to reach conclusions that will appear to the reader as speculative, at best.  The book has less than 200 pages of text.  There are sentences that should be paragraphs and paragraphs that should be chapters and chapters that could easily be books.  As a point of comparison, Raymond Brown takes 1500 pages and two volumes to cover the death and burial of Jesus.  This does not mean that Fuller is always wrong, just that he often provides insufficient information and discussion for us to form an opinion one way or the other.     One example is Fuller's conclusion that the \\"third day\\" reference in 1 Corinthians 15 \\"is not a chronological datam, but a dogmatic assertion.\\"  Why the disciples would have found \\"on the third day\\" to be dogmatically necessary is gleaned from much later  apocalyptic writings in the Talmud.  But not only are these sources much later than the resurrection narratives, they are not discussed or even cited (Fuller provides a secondary reference).  Nevertheless, Fuller assumes that these apocalyptic beliefs about the significance of the \\"third day\\" must have been powerfully active during the time of Jesus.  So powerful that the early Christians had to invent a reference to \\"on the third day\\" to meet that expectation.  But apparently not powerful enough to have left any contemporary evidence of its existence.  This seems unlikely and needs much more evidence than is cited.      I do not mean to impugn Fuller.  After sweeping away the possibility that there was a historical event that prompted the tradition, he had little choice but to come up with an alternative--no matter how unsupported.  Of course, his discussion of why there could not have been a historical prompting for the tradition rests on his assumption that early Christians would not have seen the discovery of the empty tomb and the beginning of the resurrection appearances as indicating the day Jesus was resurrected.  I disagree and think at the very least the point merits much further attention.  Certainly it would be reasonable for the apostles to conclude that Jesus' resurrection occurred within the same time frame as the empty tomb being discovered AND the beginning of the resurrection appearances.  Fuller also ignores the reports that Jesus referred to the destruction of the temple and its being rebuilt in three days.  This tradition is attested by two traditions (Jn. 2:19 and Mark 14:58; 15:29) so it is not so easily dismissed.        In addition to a simple lack of sufficient discussion, part of the problem seems to be Fuller's apparent assumption that any tension between the accounts can only be explained by authorial redaction.  He also sometimes views the literary evidence as a closed universe.  For example, because Paul only lists resurrection appearances without supplying narratives, Fuller appears to conclude that the narratives later grew out of the lists.  I find this rather unlikely.  Some of the appearances in Paul never found there way into a narrative and other narratives, though preexisting the gospels, have no detectable source in the list.  Additionally, Paul is expressing a creedal statement, useful in preaching and in letter writing.  But it seems more likely that the list was distilled from knownstories about the resurrection appearances.  After all, the leaders of the church had actually experienced these appearances themselves (Peter, James, Paul, the Twelve, and the Apostles).  Not nearly enough attention is given to the dynamic of how these witnesses would have shaped the development of the narrative traditions.  Paul lived at least as late as 62 CE.  James too lived into the 60s.  Though we have less information about Peter, he too seems to have lived into the 60s. (Not to mention the Twelve and the other apostles).  All of them were continuously active in the church as leaders of the young movement.  Would they have really left such little imprint on gospels written only 5-15 years later?  I am skeptical.  But again, the issue deserves much more attention than it gets.      Overall, an informative read with some insights and good discussion.  But ultimately more useful for pointing out the issues than resolving them.	2004-08-13
US	16905832	RY85QRB6UPRM5	0802843689	404329216	Jesus Outside the New Testament: An Introduction to the Ancient Evidence (Studying the Historical Jesus)	Books	5	33	44	N	N	Van Voorst Gives Readers a Lot for their Money	Judging this book by its cover, you would expect a discussion of references to Jesus outside the New Testament.  And that you do get.  Jesus Outside the New Testament is the best introduction to all of the usual topics, from the Roman references--Thallus, Suetonius, Pliny, and most importantly Tacitus--to the Jewish sources--Josephus and the Talmud--to post New Testament Christian writings. The term \\"introduction,\\" however, may be deceiving.  Van Voorst deals with each subject in accessible depth, addressing often overlooked objections to such passages as Tacitus' references to Jesus (shown to be without merit).  He takes these objections seriously and concedes their merit (admitting that Pliny is not \\"a witness to Jesus independent of Christianity\\") or refutes them decisively (showing that Josephus provides two \\"non-Christian witnesses to Jesus\\").    But what you may not realize you are getting with this book, based on its cover, is an effective one-chapter discussion of the Jesus Myth and a very informative discussion of the Gospel sources.      Indeed, Van Voorst is one of the few contemporary New Testament scholars to devote much time to the Jesus Myth.  He devotes most of Chapter 1 to discussing the Jesus Myth, including a helpful overview of its historical development. At the end of the chapter, Van Voorst helpfully summarizes seven grounds upon which New Testament scholars and historians have continuously rejected the Jesus Myth:      1.  Jesus Mythologists routinely misinterpret Paul's relative silence about some biographical details of the life of Jesus.     2.  Jesus Mythologists are forced to offer radically late and unsupported datings of the Canonical Gospels.     3.  Jesus Mythologists often claim that evidence of literary development and errors in the Gospels support the idea that Jesus did not exist. But as Van Voorst points out, \\"development does not necessarily mean wholesale invention, and difficulties do not prove non-existence.\\"    4.  Jesus Mythologists have failed to \\"explain to the satisfaction of historians why, if Christians invented the historical Jesus around the year 100, no pagans and Jews who opposed Christianity denied Jesus' historicity or even questioned it.\\"    5.  Jesus Mythologists rely partially on \\"well-known text-critical and source-critical problems\\" in ancient Non-Christian references to Jesus, but go beyond the evidence and difficulties by claiming that these sources have no value. They also ignore \\"the strong consensus that most of these passages are basically trustworthy.\\"     6.  Jesus Mythologists are not doing history, but polemics. \\"Wells and others seem to have advanced the non-historicity hypothesis not for objective reasons, but for highly tendentious, anti-religious purposes. It has been a weapon of those who oppose the Christian faith in almost any form, from radical Deists, to Free thought advocates, to radical secular humanists and activist atheists like Madalyn Murray O'Hair.\\"    7.  Jesus Mythologists have consistently failed to offer a better explanation for the origins of Christianity than the existence of Jesus as its founding figure.  Though various mythical origins have been attempted, they are even more deficient in corroborative evidence than the existence of Jesus.    Mocking these points hardly advances the Jesus Myth's agenda.  Nor does raising red herrings like evolutionary theory and supposed double standards (not evidenced in the book by any means).  Van Voorst is summarizing a war already won, not refighting all of the battles.  The Jesus Myth has been leveled again and again by scholars--particularly earlier in the previous century (by scholars like Maurice Gougel and Shirely Case).  Subsequent scholarly trends have been even less kind.  Van Voorst helpfully distills down the reasons that \\"[b]iblical scholars and classical historians now regard [the Jesus Myth] as effectively refuted.\\"      Finally, a surprising but welcome feature of this book is that itdevotes an entire chapter to \\"Jesus in the Sources of the Canonical Gospels.\\"  This chapter is packed with excellent discussions (and bibliographical references) about the sources of Matthew, Luke, and John. Each section lays out the likely contents of these sources in convenient charts and provides informed discussions of their origins. Perhaps the most insightful discussion is of \\"L\\"--Luke's unique material--which Van Voorst concludes was likely a \\"complete\\" pre-existing source of material about Jesus. Next he provides enlightening discussions of \\"M\\"--Matthew's unique material--and the Gospel of John's \\"Signs Source.\\"  He caps off the chapter with an excellent overview of the \\"Q\\" question, accepting the established consensus that it was a source for Matthew and Luke, but chiding the overly speculative reconstructions by scholars such as Burton Mack and John D. Crossan    This book belongs on the shelf of anyone interested in the study of the historical Jesus. I highly recommend it.	2004-08-12
US	16905832	R3QUZ8MRTBDB0C	086554381X	291139437	The Influence of the Gospel of Saint Matthew on Christian Literature Before Saint Irenaeus	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Which Parts of the NT Did the Apostolic Fathers Use?	This book, one of a series of three, is deceptively named.  Although the title focuses on the Gospel of Matthew, Massaux actually discusses each New Testament book and how it was used by the post-New Testament early Christian writers (such as 1 Clement and Ignatius).   <br /> <br />Although I have seen lists of supposed allussions to the NT by Apostolic Fathers, Massaux goes into much more detail.  He ably and soberly sorts through the possible New Testament allusions and quotes.  He organizes his material by devoting a chapter to each Apostolic Father and sections within each chapter to pariticular writings.  Then there are subsections devoted to how the particular Apostolic Father's writing uses each New Testament book.  There is also a very helpful scripture index at the end, which allows you to research particular verses and how they were used by all of the Apostolic Fathers.   <br /> <br />This is not light reading.  The translation of the French is pretty good, but not always lucid.  And much of the discussion is about the use of particular greek phrases.  Even so, laypersons can manage and benefit from the material.  Indeed, I have not found anything else that covers this kind of material in this kind of depth.   <br /> <br />If you are looking to discover which New Testament books were used by which Apostolic Fathers, this is the best resources I have found.	2004-08-12
US	16905832	R1L9TFQYU8EUJ4	0340746173	665954737	The Evidence for Jesus (Hodder Christian Essentials)	Books	4	26	26	N	N	An Accessible and Effective Response to the Jesus Myth	One of the few full-length treatments of the Jesus Myth by a leading New Testament scholar, The Evidence for Jesus is an inexpensive and accessible refutation of that theory. Though The Evidence gives special focus to the arguments of G.A. Wells, it also responds to other radical theories about Jesus--not all of which are Jesus Myths.   <br /> <br />France begins with a sober discussion of the non-Christian evidence related to Jesus.  Most of it, such as Tacitus and Mara bar Serapion, he finds offer little direct evidence about Jesus.  He then turns his attention to the Jewish evidence, providing a thorough discussion of the two references in Josephus--quite forcefully dismantling Well's rather dismissive approach to the subject.  After one of the better treatments of the subject in a popular book (though relatively brief), France rightly concludes that \\"the skepticism which dismisses the Testimonium Flavianum wholesale as a Christian fabrication seems to owe more to prejudice than to a realistic historical appraisal of the passage.\\"  <br /> <br />After discussing references to the historical Jesus in the Epistles of Paul, France concludes that it is from the Gospels that we gain the bulk of the evidence for Jesus. With a scholar's familiarity with his subject, France moves through Gospel questions such as the genre of the gospels, the fluidity of oral tradition, the creativity of early Christians, theological motivation and historical credibility. His discussion of midrash is particularly relevant, showing that mythic attempts to cast the Gospels in such terms fail because evidence that midrash was ever used to invent recent historical episodes is lacking.  France then provides an informed, yet common sense discussion, of the differences between the Gospels.  Though by no means dismissive of these difficulties, he cautions that normal historical methods should be followed to address them.  In short, France spends much of his discussion of the Gospels in effectivelyresponding to the mores sensationalistic claims against their trustworthiness. Time and again France reveals the problems underlying the skepticism many cling to regarding the Gospels.  Though the treatments are by necessity brief, they are concise and persuasive.  Those looking to dig deeper into these issues will find that France's endnotes provide helpful resources. <br /> <br />Having shown that the Gospels were intended to be read as history as well as theology, France reveals a significant weakness of the Jesus Myth.  Even if written later than the modern consensus, the Gospel authors' intent to write history combined with the confirmed accuracy of many of their references and characterizations show that they are better explained as ancient biographies of a real person who has left behind traditions of his deeds and teachings rather than an entirely mythical creation. All in all, France makes a concise and persuasive argument that the Gospels must be taken seriously as historical evidence for the life, deeds, and teachings of Jesus of Nazareth.  Most Mythologists spend only a few pages explaining the Gospels away as being written late, claiming they contradict each other, or by classifying them as \\"midrash\\" or \\"fiction.\\"  Until they provide in depth scholarship on the nature of the Gospels' genre and sources, France's arguments show why Mythologists will remain in the margins of scholarly discourse. <br /> <br />The main deficiency of The Evidence is that it gives inadequate attention to the Pauline evidence.  Nevertheless, given the scope of the book and the focus on the canonical Gospels, there is much to be gained by reading it.  Considering the price and range of ground covered in a highly proficient manner, I recommend this book.	2004-08-12
