US	17117275	R1FVSGPPLILXWU	0843955775	937875498	Keepers	Books	5	13	15	N	N	Great balance and Great Job!!	Before we even begin the dissection, let me first point out that the cover of Keepers is stunning. That, right there, earns Mr. Braunbeck half of a point. But, I do have to deduct the same amount for the synopsis. That summary ... completely misleading. This book is not a twisted rendition of When Animals Attack. Nor is it a knock-off of Cujo, Them, or Watchers. Want to know how or what sets it apart from these other played-out renditions? Read it and find out for yourself.     <br />  <br />Unconventional and clever, the plot is an intricate masterpiece. Shedding layer upon layer, the story constantly unravels and contorts in a new direction that, I promise, you will never see coming and never would have expected to be brought to. And the moment you think you understand what the tale is truly about - you're wrong. There are levels of subtext and symbols, even in the simplest scene your mind is in overdrive while Braunbeck takes you deeper into his world; never more so than in what could only be called the perfect ending.   <br />   <br />Descriptive, but tight, Braunbeck's prose, while at times can get a bit purple, is never allowed free reign. The details are embellished just enough to grant you a vivid image without painting the picture for you and the dialog is fresh with just a hint of sarcasm. Me likey. In fact, there was one scene in the book that I absolutely loved.  The exchange is between the main character, Gil, and Whitey, the secondary character, while at an animal shelter. Take a look and judge for yourself:   <br />  <br />\\"You don't suppose they drug the animals, do you?\\"  <br />\\"I wouldn't think so. Would they be this active if they had sedatives in their system?\\"  <br />\\"Hell-I'm on sedatives half the time and you don't see it slowing me down any, do you?\\"   <br />\\"No, but then you're freakish.\\"  <br />\\"Pot. Kettle. Black. Fill in the blanks.\\"  <br />      -pg. 193  <br />  <br />Beautiful.   <br />  <br />Now, while Braunbeck usually likes to havethe speed and atmosphere develop slowly, carefully, it is not so here. Oh no, you are gripped up from the first chapter and held firmly in place while the air thickens with the smell of decay and repentance. And if you think the ambience will slowly ease up or that you'll get used to it...give it up. The mood will only get darker, the climate colder, and that feeling of dread, well that will only increase with each page. Welcome to hell, dear readers.  <br />  <br />Hand over you're desolate, discarded, abused, and forgotten and I promise Braunbeck will make them beautiful and wretched. Each character is realistic; written with brutal honesty and without regret, there are no rainbows or sunny days here. In fact, at times this cast may be a little too life-like. In the scene where the main character, Gil, dreams of a place called the Rumble Room you can see a very distinct reenactment of a widely known mock-act that was practiced at Auschwitz.    <br />  <br />This isn't the only scene that hits home. Oh no, there are many and each one will embrace you against your will. But while their flaws are many, and the sins shown are so repugnant that you find yourself almost hating the author, he somehow manages not only to ignite your empathy, but ultimately, your forgiveness as well; both of the cast and yourself.   <br />  <br />Horrifying and traumatic, thrilling and intense, Keepers has just become one of my favorite top ten books to read! Only a certain few have been able to capture me so extensively in their arms, move me to tears, and, yet, all the while with one hand over my eye.	2005-09-13
US	17117275	RSH65Y7214ZHU	0967922011	400631889	Slayer: Black Miracles	Books	4	3	3	N	N	I Heart Suckers	Now I have to say, while Koehler's characters are complex and at times harsh, they are easy to associate with. Now that I've read a few of her books, I think it's safe to say her female characters are always broken women who carry their scars with both pride and shame; shame that they survived, but proud that they can still put one foot in front of the other. Shying away from the trend of gross exaggeration, her female leads are audacious, blunt, and kick ass, but always within the realm of possibility. Nor are they all beautiful, sex kittens. These women are just like the rest of us...wonderful in our own little way. Her male leads are just as diverse and distinguished, but it's her females that shine.  <br />        <br />Casually paced, the speed of the book is where my issues lie. Were it not for the interesting characters, my attention would've slowly dwindled after reading a third of the book. While there is a lot of action, it's a little over-described and draws out longer than necessary. The same can be said for the atmosphere. Don't get me wrong, Koehler can set up a Goth scene like no other, but far too often she revels in it a little too much for my taste. I'm all about it was a dark and stormy night, but have to draw the line when said night is described in four paragraphs when it could've been established in one. The issues working against the other, neither helps the book nor does it set the mood the way she intended it.    <br />  <br />With all that said, Koehler's style of writing is tight and concise, just not when she's having a good time. The dialog is modern without being clichd and her descriptions are strong, without smacking you across the face. Written in the third person, the narration is sharp and intense. You will feel what the characters feel, see what they see, and understand what's going on throughout the story.  Now that's what I'm talking about!!  <br />  <br />Original in the genre, but patterned within the world Ms. Koehler's created, the story is fascinating. Now, maybe I've just been spoiled, but this tale is more serious than The Blackburn & Scarletti Mysteries. I expected the same kind of humor I found in the last one, but it was not to be. I'm not saying that's a bad thing, just that this tale is more severe and a lot less breezy.  Maybe it's because the character, Alek, is more introspective and melancholic. Or maybe it's because the trials he must go through aren't a laughing matter. Either way, prepare yourselves for a dive into deep waters.	2005-09-13
US	17117275	R1ZCVDN1LI6K0E	1594142254	575519770	Five Star Science Fiction/Fantasy - Trouble In The Forest: A Bright Winter Sun (Bk. 2)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Buy it now!!!	Beginning where A Cold Summer Night ends, A Bright Winter Sun is strong, but you will definitely need to read the first book before this one.  Original and creative, the plot is spellbinding. Even with all your knowledge of the tale of Robin Hood and his band of thieves, Kith manages to push it into the background within the first few pages. Will the old tales be completely erased? No. Will it overshadow the story at any point? Absolutely not. Even though the play is familiar, Kith adds her own twist and turns that will mesmerize you. Also, there is no romance between Robin Hood and Maid Marion; it's more like a partnership.   <br />        <br />Though the story is enjoyable, I truly think it is the players that will enrapture you. Kith's characters are imaginative in their development, and their 180-turn from what you expect is very clever. Maybe I'm sheltered, but I never would have envisioned Robin Hood and Maid Marion could be so evil, so brutal. What I like most though, is that these players have no happy endings. The result of their fates is apocalyptic, but damn entertaining. Could be that the atmosphere helped them out greatly. The moment you open the book, the air around you begins to chill and the scent of dirt and blood are carried on the wind.  It worked brilliantly.     <br />  <br />Kith's style of writing is innovative and completely unique. Rather than fall victim to pretentious narratives, she manages to keep it subtly simple. What do I mean? Well, while her prose is easy to understand, it is never dumbed down. Instead of beating you over the head with prosaic descriptions and unnecessary dialog, she allows the story to unfold easily. Of course, the pace helped greatly. Gentle and laidback, the speed of the book carries you along slowly, but effectively. You aren't chewing your nails waiting for the next scene, at least not at first. The pace isn't forced, it flows naturally and builds like water running down a gentle slope. You don't realize you're holding your breath until you suddenly gasp.	2005-07-23
US	17117275	R7UNPY5JYSUCE	0972085963	256067561	Siren Promised	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Read it immediately	I have just one word for you - DAMN!  <br />    <br />Beautiful in its honesty, the plot is raw and creative. Without sermon or judgment, the story reveals a naked, ugly picture of drug abuse and exile. Although there is a very intricate supernatural element to it, it is purely secondary. What you will remember, what will haunt you, is the desperation of Angie, Curtis, and Kaya, and to what lengths they will go to fill their emptiness. Although I should warn you, the intensity may be too much for those looking for a few hours of simple entertainment.  <br />  <br />Watching a character fall from grace and then get back up has always made for compelling drama, and if that is what you're expecting here - put the book down. Although the players capture the pain and suffering of life and all of its complexities, they receive no simple answer. There are no rainbows here. What they do portray is the gritty truth, without bows or gift-wrapping.  As they fight against their desperation and for their redemption, you can't help but care, even if you don't want to.   <br />  <br />The atmosphere is abrasive and dense. The moment you open the book, the air around you begins to immediately attack your senses. When you move through the forest with Angie, you can almost smell the decay and filth. When Curtis investigates the Smith's house, you sense the weight surrounding it. It's all around you, and that stench, that smell, never leaves you. It's very power involving you in the story and placing you in their environment. And just when you think you can't handle any more, the pace pushes you through and past it. Although it's not a swift read, the speed is calculated and safe. With every aspect of the book being open to illusion, you will actually come to depend on the pace. It was perfect!    <br />  <br />Unlike most collaborations, Clark and Johnson's styles blended well together; too well, in fact. To this very moment, I still can't determine when one took over and the other sat back. Interlacing between reality and the drug-infused, nightmares of Angie, the authors make you live through it, rather than just read about it. The power of Clark and Johnson working together is in their ability to blur the lines in the tale and touch you where it counts. By the time I was done reading I was wondering about the purpose in my own life; they left me with an emptiness I didn't even know existed.  <br />  <br />Now normally I don't comment on the illustrations in books for the sheer fact that I know next-to-nothing about art, but the illustrations in this book require mention. Conveying what is going through the character's minds, the images bring to life what can only be imagined. They are beautiful! In fact, there is one picture in there that I am seriously considering framing and hanging on my wall.	2005-07-23
US	17117275	R3L4F23O2TBQ3V	1929653689	426106425	Scarecrow Gods	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Good show, Mister Ochse!	Now let me just say this is not your normal variety scary book. The gore and blood is almost non-existent, and Ochse avoids the cheap tricks that are so commonly seen. No, what we have here is a smart and original plot. Character-driven, the story aims to capture your heart and mind first and foremost.  Challenging your beliefs and your faith, the plot attacks you internally, feeding on your fear and emotions. Too late you realize that it's been chewing since you opened the book, and nothing can satiate it. Ochse is a terrifying genius!  <br />  <br />The true brilliance shown is in the pace of the book. Ever patient, the build-up is gradual, the climaxes reached only when the tension is ready to burst. The events are never rushed and the actions never consuming; everything is played out naturally and in its own time. This is not to say that the speed is slow, far from it. I read this book in just under eight hours, but what kept turning the page was not hurried violence. It was simply to see what happened next, what challenge Ochse would throw at me.  Even though the atmosphere switches constantly to two polar opposite settings, the one feeling throughout is home. Both the warmth and hostilities that are found in your house are felt in waves here. Although there is an undercurrent of wrongness that seeps into both, it never fully consumes it.    <br />  <br />And just to further show you what a clever man Mr. Ochse is, let me tell you about his writing. Ochse's style is natural, his direction cryptic. Instead of dishing out pre-digested, chewed-up clues and answers, he allows the reader to use their own imagination and intelligence. What he does reveal, he exposes slowly, piece-by-piece. This form of storytelling is what got me reading in the first place.   <br />  <br />His characters are just as precisely detailed. Carrying most of the weight, the cast is realistic and memorable. Three-dimensional, you can understand these characters better than most people you know. Rather than try to imitate friends/family, the characters refine our expectations of what we normally see. Our protagonist is not some random person with a hero complex, nor does he have super powers. He's just a person, no more no less. It's only through his actions and convictions that he rises to a level we all wish could in some form or another.	2005-07-23
US	17117275	R3RQ6JMQ8E9PHE	055338208X	142603019	Wildwood Road	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Golden's done it again!	Taking you on a terrifying journey, the plot will sweep you off your feet. The story is original, intense, and erratic. The minute you think you have it all figured out, Golden throws a curve ball you never saw coming, but you're damn happy to see where it takes you. Also, even though the tale is very detailed, it's never weighed down with inconsequential page-filler descriptions. In other words, it is simply divine.   <br />  <br />The characters are true-to-life personalities filled with doubts, love, and fear, and maintained in honesty. There are no road signs to help them out of their nightmares, they have to rely on their own instincts and intelligence. And that is what makes them stand-out, because you don't have to question what you would do, it's already being played out. Golden's style of writing is, dare I say it, mischievous. He has this ability to convey both repulsiveness and beauty, light and shadow; alternating between pleasure and pain. He is constantly shifting in narration; one minute he is the observer and the next conspirator. But above all that, he is the storyteller.  <br />  <br />Burrowing under your skin, the pace is veiled, but constantly active. At first the suspense begins as a minor itch, hardly noticeable. As you go on, the itching becomes more erratic, more painful. By the time you've come to the climax of the story, you'll be half mad. But don't be fooled, working hand-in-hand with the pace, the atmosphere is the true danger. Oppressive and hostile, the ambience throughout the book will infect you like a virus. The characters' emotions seem to leak into the air, contaminating it with their fear, hate, and anguish. And I promise, it will get to you.	2005-04-29
US	17117275	R1KVSJKRJYTMNC	0976249820	420280173	Ocean of Lard  (Choose Your Own Mindfuck Fest #17)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Just sick and wrong!!	Soaring my heart with pleasure while simultaneously stinking up my soul, the plot is deliciously repugnant. Placing you as the main character that is fleeing from the cops because of a criminal indiscretion, you are thrown three choices that even the devil would pity you for. Sorry kids, but no matter which way you choose, it's not going to be pretty. Believe me, I know, I read that book three times and took three different directions. Each time is different, the pace varying with the path you choose; both are chaotic. I loved it.   <br />  <br />Don't tell me, you feel ill? Well, if you're going to read this book, I suggest not eating for twenty-four hours. That way, you'll only dry heave. If you think you can survive the story and the characters, I guarantee you won't be able to get rid of the nauseating atmosphere. The stench of rot and grease will accompany you throughout the day.   <br />  <br />Donihe and Mellick, known for their nihilistic style of writing, combined turn out a story that shows their rebellious ways and anarchistic thinking. The two styles are interchangeable and flawless. There is no break in the book where you can honestly say, \\"Oh, this is Donihe\\" or \\"This is definitely Mellick\\". Who knew I'd love cerebral punk so much.   <br />  <br />The cast is a round-up of extreme caricature-like reproductions of characters from juvenile books; you know, except for the fact that they are all crazy and demented. The misogynists of society, these players are insane, criminal, and disgusting. This, of course, makes them hilarious - much like watching people fall. Devoid of any and all history, their level of crazy is what makes them memorable. After you read it, you won't remember the names. You'll remember that one character saved pirate's stools -painted it gold- and then either saved it or ate it.   <br />	2005-04-28
US	17117275	R3K0COK4B0MHRS	1554040027	131927079	The Organ Donor: A Supernatural Thriller	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Grab This Book Now	Soaked in mythology and foreign affairs, the plot is more reminiscent of old-time horror. With limited gore and subtle scares, Warner keeps the story neat and focused. Although upon first glance, it will appear to be nothing more than your average ghost story, you'll soon find out it is so much more. Is there a message underneath it all? Yes. Will it distract you? No. Will you be enlightened while still being scared? Hell Yeah!  <br />  <br />Set to a calculated speed, the pace is comfortable. It stays loyal to the story, making it easy for the reader to adjust to.  Warner's style of writing is short, sweet, and to the point. The descriptions are thorough, but not intimidating and the dialogue compliments the story instead of inhibiting. My only problem was that he tended to get a little too technical at times, sterilizing the descriptions and killing my mood.   <br />  <br />Warm and empathetic, the characters are true to life. Realistic to a fault, their suffering is understandable, their reactions believable. You can place yourself into the picture and the outcome wouldn't change. The atmosphere is bitterly cold and oppressive, leaving you anxious and feeling just a little dirty.  It summons the taste of iron in your mouth, and the smell of rot and corruption on your clothes. I suggest a scalding hot shower afterwards.	2005-03-25
US	17117275	R2HM789UG71XTD	0843954280	469752352	Desolation (Leisure Horror)	Books	5	2	6	N	N	The Grand Master of Horror	The plot is creative, intelligent, and absolutely enthralling. With a bit of the paranormal, a hint of spiritual awakening, and a subject that is often reported but never actually heard, this story will mark you for life. The subplot interweaves with the main gracefully, and not a moment too soon. Wrapping up questions that lingered, while others surface, I promise you, by the end of this book you will be screaming for more!  <br />  <br />Pulling you into a disorienting atmosphere, let me warn you now, you will spend half the book in a state of extreme confusion and paranoia. The imagery, while not terrifying, is nightmarish and deceitful. Also, the more you read, the more delusional you will become; inheriting Cain's psychosis. The pace is all-consuming in its need to involve you, trapping you in its embrace while slowly freeing you of your inhibitions. While it may seem slow to some, your patience will be rewarded.   <br />  <br />Is Lebbon's style altered? Yes and no. His writing, while slightly different than his norm, doesn't stray too far from what you've come to expect, the only change is his viewpoint. More distanced, it's only his perspective that has changed, evolved. Instead of participating in his stories, he has now become the observer. You can still see him in there; he's just chosen to reside in the shadows.   <br />  <br />Never fear though, even if Lebbon's style has changed - his characters haven't. Constructing a cast that is highly diverse, each is interesting in their own right. The characters are intriguing, and emotionally-binding. Thought their talents and outlook may differ, it is their vitality that grabs you. Focusing on Cain and his journey to self-discovery, the supporting cast adds insight and comprehension into Cain's impulsion without hindering it. Perfect!!	2005-02-22
US	17117275	R4A3XR7URZ7PL	0843954124	996157105	Flesh Gothic	Books	4	3	4	N	N	True in-your-face Horror	The power of Edward Lee is his ability to do what the other man wouldn't.  <br />  <br />Attractive and repulsive, the plot is a trial of psychosexual horror. Using the bare bones of a been-there-done-that outline, Lee adds muscle and flesh with energetic originality. I must warn you though; this book is not for the easily offended or prudish-types. The scenes are graphic, and the dialog is raw. Thanks to Lee, I avoided any intimate interaction for a week. By the way Mr. Lee, Mr. BloodyMary is currently stalking the streets with your picture in his hand. Beware.  <br />  <br />All having addictions and weaknesses to sex in one form or another, the characters are both pathetic and admirable in their individuality. Each player is an aspect of what we choose to hide from ourselves and the outside world. While I can respect their personalities, can even place a few among my nearest and dearest, I never once felt close to them. What a waste. Lee's style of writing is violent, and unique. Eliciting your most primitive fascinations, he attacks your senses, and you inhibitions with unflinching glee. I'm not sure how he does it, but he manages to quiet your fears while simultaneously exciting them. His descriptive technique is extreme, and at times repellant and hard to stomach. I loved it!   <br />  <br />Almost operatic, the pace is slow, but comforting. Believe me, between the overall depravity, and the numerous tensions that mount throughout, the speed's a blessing. Creating a moody masterpiece of eroticism and savagery, the atmosphere is taut and tense. The bitter smell of fear and dread sticks to your skin and invades your pores. To get rid of that nasty grime, I suggest you lather. Rinse. Repeat.	2005-02-22
US	17117275	RY8214LDFT1LK	0974503185	732245543	Bare Bone #6	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Worth Every Penny!	This issue is far superior to its predecessors. While the last issue focused more on mentally stimulating you, this one targets your heart. Though the plot changes with each and every story, their lies a recurring theme of need and love- twisted and torn, deficient and obsessive - but still love. I promise, you will not be denied the sweet rush this collection provides.  <br />  <br />Out of the eighteen stories in Bare Bone #6, I held no favorites: all were captivating. Although going into each and everyone would take forever, I will give a highlight into one of the most memorable ones. Newton's `Links' tells a tale about a webmaster's discovery and assimilation of the perfect mate. Eleven poems that range from the grotesque to the sublime were perfect finishing touches to the stories they accompanied.   <br />  <br />The orgasmic quality of pacing, the allure of the large cast of characters, and the vivid atmosphere created in these selections are more powerful than sex and much more satisfying. Gathering a congregation of both new and old writers, Donihe deals out perfection. While each author varies in style as well voice, the impact of their words is felt, and the effect is transcendental.	2005-01-26
US	17117275	R2FB4SK4DW37SD	1594260869	370415204	Casket For Sale (Only Used Once)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Demonstrates Jeff Strand as a serious contender in the genre	Now before we even get started I want to make something crystal clear, even though there is comedy throughout the book it never overshadows and takes over the story. What's that mean in layman's terms?  This isn't a beach book that only requires a quarter of your attention with the option to skim. This story involves you, sucking you in page-by-page until your heart's racing right along with the characters. And yes, Strand is aware of the hurdles that must be jumped in order to create something unique, but don't worry he came prepared. Been-there-done-that situations are acknowledged, stereotypes are noted, and the setting is welcomed - then all are thrown out the door without even a pat or kiss.  <br />  <br />Kicking off with intrigue, the pace picks up speed as you delve deeper into Mayhem's world and never loosens its vise until the end. I promise that by the time you close the book, the momentum that was created and sustained throughout will leave you breathless with beads of sweat dripping down your face. The setting is detailed, but not overwhelming. The location is random. It can be any back-road, in any town, and that is what makes it memorable. Between the eerie atmosphere and the scent of perspiration mixed with blood, Strand manages to evoke pure desperation.   <br />  <br />With gallant honesty and tense prose, Strand's style of writing is easy to read, but very intense. He keeps it simple without dumbing it down. With nothing to prove or preach about, he pens his tale for entertainment for both you and himself. Yes, I actually do think this is one author who laughs out loud when he reads over the banter and sarcastic remarks during editing. You can tell he had fun writing this, and that is just as important as the story itself.  Taking a somewhat conventional story in which focuses more on the characters and less on the actions, he exposes what would happen in reality. Bringing forth characters that while are not always brave or admirable, are true. Mayhem's life may constantly be filled with danger and adventure, but it's the bond between all the characters that truly makes this story. Their interaction with both each other and the group of adversaries is what endears you to them.  They elicit sympathy and respect, friendship and affection.  <br />  <br />My only complaint - I must now abuse my credit cards in order to get everything and anything Jeff Strand has ever written! I suggest you do the same.	2005-01-04
US	17117275	R1FMH9SKAA3NE0	1594142246	118029294	Trouble in the Forest: A Cold Summer Night (Five Star Science Fiction/Fantasy)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Get it Today!	The plot is unconventional, symptomatic and will monopolize your entire day.  Using the legend of Robin Hood as a backdrop, Kith reels you in using your questioning nature. The basis of the tale unfolds as it is told and the key players are all in attendance. What is different, besides the bloodsuckers, is the 180-degree-turn that plays out.  Intrigued and needing to satisfy your curiosity, you will soon disregard the skeletal outline and immerse yourself in a fresh story that promises abounding bloodshed.   <br />  <br />The pace is subtle, keeping you parallel to the story while moving posthaste. Carrying along the journey while still allowing you enough time to absorb all the details. The atmosphere is stagnant and oppressive, and the air reeks of hawthorn trees and dirt. Kith's style of writing is crisp, concise and innovational. Keeping faithful to the outline of the original myth, Kith adds a fresh perspective and a completely distinctive dimension to the tale. The only problem with the book was the editing. Some pages had too much space in between words and grammatical errors were abundant.   <br />  <br />The characters are passionate, authentic and as deep as a river. All of the players have their flaws, their own personality which distinguishes them. Even the antagonists eventually sway your sympathy and garner understanding. Although you have previous understanding of these characters and their fundamental traits, Kith presents an entirely different story that delivers, without your mind trying to reject it like yesterdays' Chinese. <br /> <br />In what is sure to become a classic, Kith transports you to the time of Robin Hood with a twist; where chivalry lived, kings ruled, and evil hid in every shadow.	2004-12-04
US	17117275	R2UHTY4NNCYRGR	0843954817	1243940	House Of Blood	Books	4	6	10	N	N	New Author Delivers!	In his debut novel, Smith promises unimaginable brutality, bile-inducing fear, and unfathomable despair; and then delivers monumentally!  <br />  <br />So you think you've heard this story before, met the characters, and visited this side of Hades more times than you can count? Well friends, you couldn't be more wrong! The plot is original, all consuming, and plays out like a Greek tragedy. As soon as you think these characters could not go through anymore, you realize Smith has only begun. Now I know you've heard that before, but since I hate giving out details for fear of spoiling you, you're going to have to trust me. Trust that you have never seen Hell until you've seen it through Bryan Smith's eyes!  <br />  <br />Now as much as I would love to describe the pace and atmosphere, I can't. I was so immersed in the story and wrapped in the characters that I barely noticed the time flying and the smell of chlorine and sulfur. For the sake of argument let's just agree the speed was non-stop, and the air emitted odors so foul, that you might need to keep a paper bag handy. Smith's style of writing is natural, intense, and intimate. Instead of concentrating on only having you watch from the sidelines, he somehow manages to incorporate you into the story. Also, he resists the trap most beginners succumb to, instead of trying to prove how many big words he can use, he keeps it simple and to the point.  I thank you.  <br />  <br />While the characters were engrossing and the conflicts they faced interesting, the female characters were overtly stereotypical to extremes. The standout pathetic male character would be the angst, overly emotional, quote-unquote evil Master. Can you feel my pain?  <br />  <br />As much as the character flaws appear irritating (see above), they are insignificant in the big picture. Get It!  <br /> <br />	2004-11-27
US	17117275	RS50FTBPBMF8A	0843954809	872159429	The Hidden (Leisure Horror)	Books	5	13	18	N	N	Pure unadulterated Amusement.	With this being the first novel by Sarah Pinborough I have only two words, Good Job. The plot is original and gripping. The events flow decently; the motives and the reactions of the characters are true and completely believable. Getting into the mind of both predator and prey, she takes you on a roller coaster ride where evil awaits with bated breath. Hell even the morally depraved and damaged can be redeemed. I loved it! The atmosphere is filled with a sense of hopeless abandon and a stink of rot. I suggest a scalding hot shower to relieve you of said odor.   <br />  <br />The characters are a bit too clichd, have little or no history and too many questions go unanswered. For example, what happened to Elizabeth Ray between 14 and 40? What kind of childhood did Rachel have? Was the wholesome neighbor, Mike, a stalker? If he only met her a few times, how did he know so much about her? How did Murray's wife die? How many people were killed in Ray's house? Oh I could go on, but I won't. I've decided because it is Pinborough's first book, I will overlook the players ... just this once.   <br />  <br />The pace in the book is fanatical, almost dangerous. The tension explodes on the first page and climbs steadily and with stealth. Warning: If you are a nail-biter do not, I repeat do not, read this book without first using precautionary measures. Pinborough's style of writing is compassionate, quick-witted, and above all else compelling. The descriptions are graphic and textured, evoking the scenarios with grotesque imagery. Excellent!	2004-11-26
US	17117275	R3KLCACSXQ5IE	0974503177	570927141	The Fall of Never	Books	5	19	21	N	N	Sweet Mercy! Now that's what I'm talking about!	Malfi keeps you glued to the book. Be it from terror or your own morbid curiosity, you'll find yourself unable to put this book down. In other words, he'll own you!   <br />  <br />The plot is intoxicating, mesmerizing, and compulsively precise. Tying into the main, the subplot is just as equally engrossing and clever. The most scintillating aspect of the story is that although you can see that something evil is on its way with astounding velocity and inevitability, a part of you wants to close your eyes and wish it away. There's another part of you though, that wants to see, that needs to know. It's that part of you that keeps turning the pages as the blood spills and the bodies start to pile up. Malfi not only understands this, but he supplies it in spades.   <br />  <br />The atmosphere is charged with voltaic emotions and external anguish, electrifying the air you breathe. Coming off in deathless waves, the fear is naked and palpable. Each setting can be felt and embraced, every location visually assaulting. I'm not sure how he does it, but Malfi manages to not only materialize the house, but also give it its very own personality. It becomes a character that while it is cold and ugly, manages to rivet you.    <br />  <br />The characters are natural, realistic, and above all else honest. The interaction between Kelly and her family is both true and familiar. Each player has a depth, a well of emotions , that when tapped almost explodes off the page. Even the antagonist isn't without tenderness,  forgiveness. Malfi's style of writing is sharp, keeping you on the edge from the first page to the last. His descriptions are tight, his settings corporeal, and dialog flawless.  In all honesty, I never once even noticed the pace. The only time I even thought about it was when it came time to critique it. My assessment? Perfect.   <br />  <br />Get This Book! Whip out that credit card and get it NOW!	2004-11-24
US	17117275	R2FGXLIJNUFS6M	0843953144	866173677	Deep in the Darkness	Books	3	9	10	N	N	Even a blind man could see where he was  going!	No matter what happened I knew what was coming. The descriptions, the ending and each twist and turn I foresaw from the second page of the damn book. The man has talent. You can see it in his writing. The stories are in there - somewhere.                                                                                       <br />As much as I hate comparing novels, I could not read this book without thinking of Pet Semetary, The Howling and Salem's Lot. It's apparent that new territory has not been found in the writing world. This plot is overdone and shows a half-assed attempt on Laimo's part for being creative. Even a blind man could see where he was  going!    <br />  <br />Now to the good part. I love Laimo's style of writing. This is the usual spot where I give you three adjectives to breakdown his M.O.. Well, I flat out refuse to! There aren't enough descriptions in the world - you have to see it for yourself. He writes with an edge, oblivious to any set formula or pattern, penning his work with a need to bare his soul and give his nightmares life.  <br />                                                                      <br />The atmosphere is reminiscent of a forest fire that is closing in on you, and fast. The smoke peaks in slowly at first, then before you know it, you're knee deep in heat and smothering. The air reeks of danger and you find yourself dreading the outcome, but thrilled with the adrenaline rush. Throughout the book, the pace is constantly moving and shifting. The moment you think you've reached the climax, Laimo pulls a fast one and alters the speed.   <br />   <br />The characters are the true stars of this book. Each player is significantly unique, yet absolutely common. Creating three-dimensional characters, Laimo fleshes them out with intelligence and emotion. The brilliance of this cast is that not one is memorable, yet they'll haunt you for nights to come.	2004-10-22
US	17117275	R2EIURQ0N4TE38	1594141460	611776645	Five Star Science Fiction/Fantasy - The Tolltaker	Books	5	4	5	N	N	James Sneddon, You Rock My World!	Every time I thought I knew where the book was going, who the true bad guy was and what the outcome would be - I was wrong! Every time I boxed this story into what I assumed it would prove to be - I was wrong. Never, I repeat never, have I been more surprised and enthralled in a story before. I finished this book in just under four hours and then picked it right back up and read it again!    <br />  <br />The plot is unconventional and creative, the delivery flawless. This story involves you, incorporating you into this tale of heartache, faith, fear and unimaginable strength. Now don't mistake mush for admiration, this story is masterful. Ingraining traditional storytelling with modern views, Sneddon's style of writing is fresh and definitive. He keeps the dialogue simple, the descriptions sharp and the agenda quiet. Although there is a message enclosed in the story, it never overwhelms you or distracts.   <br />  <br />The pace is stable and constant. Although you may not notice the speed shifting, there is a subtle build-up. In fact, after I read it a second time, I still couldn't pinpoint the exact moment it accelerated. The atmosphere is perplexing and duplicitous. Although you're aware that something isn't right, you never actually put your finger on exactly what it is. Thorough research and use of the rich background for the area was evident, as it took place in my backyard and flowed naturally - never making me stop to correct him.  <br />  <br />The characters are universal. Their motivations are clear but their approach is flawed and this is what makes them real. You can understand them, empathize for them and cry along with them. Because ultimately this person could be you or someone you know and that ups the stakes and truly gives this tale spirit. After putting the book down I missed the kid with the sarcastic mouth, and the mother with the weight of the world on her shoulders. Characters like this is what makes a story great!	2004-10-22
US	17117275	RNGINC6DJ30XL	0758200471	897291018	Dark Seductions: Tales of Erotic Horror	Books	2	5	8	N	N	Save your money	Within this book, the plots range from the surreal to the terrifyingly mundane. To name just a few stories, there was the fatally enticing mummy, vengeful goddess, a vain has-been actress and a football team soul-bound to witchy prostitutes. Some were far-fetched, like the possessed elevator and most were boringly laid out, such as the egotistical sci-fi writer.  The one story that stands out is Good Vibrations by Ms. Thorne. Hilarious and gratifying, she gives her female readers a revenge story that will stick with them for years to come and pass on to future generations.   <br />  <br />Since it is an anthology, to describe the pace would be difficult to judge because it changed with each story. The atmosphere overall was simple and direct; Control. Through out the book, you constantly feel a tug-of-war with your sense to never back down or submit. All of the characters in this book had a monotonous pattern; all the women were either victims or evil temptresses, while the men were vulgar or naive.    <br />  <br />Also not one could produce even an inch of familiarity or empathy. They reminded me of all those projects I did in high school: pointless and thrown together at the last minute.  With only a few pages for each author to showcase their talent, the style of writing is hard to critique. To dissect it would mean to probe all 14 stories and if you are anything like me, you like things to be short and sweet.	2004-10-22
US	17117275	RWSAAHTSRXGWN	0843954175	873016438	The Vampire De Sade	Books	1	2	3	N	N	Let's get ready to rumble!	I want my vicious killers back and I want them now! Yes the new breed was cool ... for about five minutes. That time has come and passed, now bring back the revolting murderers! No more do I want to see our bloodsuckers sexy and self-loathing. I'm tired of reading whine-after-whine about the pain. So please for all that is pretty and yellow in the world, end the madness. I'm warning you, don't make me get a pitchfork and some stakes.   <br />  <br />Warning* you need to read the first four books in this series in order to have a clue as to what's going on. Also the back cover blurb is very misleading. If for some reason you thought it would be a battle of great evil forces, you were wrong. Oh Dear God where you were wrong.  <br />  <br />Now here is where I tell you about the plot, but the thing is, there wasn't one. The story wanders aimlessly, drifting with the hope that the pretty vampires will distract the readers long enough so as not to notice. Sorry didn't work, I noticed. The layout is patent, the events predictable and the outcome is anticlimactic. The ending is a tangled mess that not even Houdini could figure out. Do not delude yourself into thinking that it has to get better, it doesn't.   <br />  <br />The pace starts out slow, accelerating sporadically and with little grace. Think of accompanying a first time driver in a car that requires you know how to maneuver the stick shift, and then maybe you'll understand my meaning. Mitchell's style of writing is overworked and accommodating. Basically people, she's trying too hard. Instead of writing from the heart, her book comes off as distanced and restrained. Were she to find her own voice, the connection between her readers and her writing would alter dramatically. For the better!   <br />  <br />The atmosphere aims to create a sense of revulsion, but only manages to pull off a quiet irritation - towards the book. The taste of the story wreaks havoc on your senses, never deciding if it wants to set a romantic tone or a horrifying one. Neither worked. The characters are a mass of self-indulgent, pathetic creatures with no redeeming qualities to speak of. Their interactions are weak and their dialogue clichd. Instead of using De Sade's history as an advantage, Mitchell whips it out whenever he's in his \\"woe is me\\" phase. That is just wrong.  <br />  <br />Don't buy it, don't borrow it, just Burn This Book!	2004-10-22
US	17117275	RAWIW3A6DL295	1553950429	107489027	Tiburon	Books	2	7	10	N	N	Throw logic out the door	The basic sketch of the story is enticing, although not original it is a new take on an old idea. The very thought of a new species of shark, with an intellect that matches a human is frightening. How would the world respond? That is what drew me to the book, the fascination. While the idea is good, the execution of the complete story is choppy and undeveloped. Too much in a rush, Holsclaw never truly explains the origin of the shark or their purpose. Add to that the highly unlikely, completely absurd solution to the shark's visit.   <br />  <br />The pace in the book is swift, too swift in fact. Through the entire book you feel like your playing catch-up, the action rarely slowing down. Mr. Holsclaw, even the most numbed reader needs a pause. The atmosphere in the book is chaotic and disorienting. I'm still not sure if that result was intended or just a side effect. Being that this is Holsclaw's first book I'm not going to judge his style of writing too harshly. Having read Laid to Rest previously, let's just say his style has improved. Just one tiny tidbit, if I may. Mr. Holsclaw, it's okay to say someone knocked on the door, you heard a beep or the phone rang. We really don't need to read,  \\"Brrrrring\\" every time. We get it, no need to describe each and every noise.  <br />  <br />The characters are your basic shallow, stereotypical cutouts. Not one person is authentic. The two main players, Dr. Wyatt and Dr. Paige, are more involved with each other than the sharks. Which, by the way, was completely gratuitous. The secondary characters play out there roles predictably, lacking both brains and emotion. With more one-liners than your local lounge lizard, the characters proved amusing only when they were getting eaten. Which leads me to the only plus in this book - the gore. With every turn of the page, someone is dying and they don't go easy into that peaceful sleep. I'm talking rip, shred, and devoured; it was beautiful.	2004-10-22
US	17117275	RJYBB9LBUPKLL	1589395719	575717293	The Arachne Experiment	Books	3	2	2	N	N	An author to watch!	I don't know how she does it, but S. Monique Craig manages to feed an addiction I never even knew I had! For that alone, Ms. Craig gets a gold star!       While more science fiction than horror, the plot is provocative and clever. The story is exceptionally intense, focusing on major issues such as genetic engineering, organic psychiatry and the overall treatment of the mentally insane. These subjects appear in headlines all over the country on a daily basis and yet, they are either completely ignored or simply never questioned. Brilliant. The pace in the story is abrupt and bent. Matching the tale step-by-step, the momentum moves in directions that no reader is able to predict or prepare for.      The atmosphere is charged with mania. The very air seems tainted with a sense of frenzied paranoia. Set in a vast estate at the top of a hill near the Chesapeake Bay, Craig conveys an image of deceiving beauty. While the house manages to inspire awe upon first glance, the actual details of the manor are misleading. You could close your eyes and see this house. The question is would you want to?      Craig's style of writing is incisive and thorough, but weak when it comes to dialogue. Despite the characters strong background and education, some of their conversations border on the banal. There's surprising platitude in the way they talk to each other and is cluttered with a sort of gibberish you'd find in a late-night B-movie. Which brings me to my next point - the players. The characters are humorous and amusing, intelligent and expressive; yet, not one has vitality. Each player seems to illustrate what the author assumes we want; playing out a role we expect to find. Also, some of their responses and most of their reactions are doubtful at best.     Craig definitely has talent and her stories shine with individuality, she just needs to pay a little more attention to her cast of players.	2004-10-06
US	17117275	R2J2I5EKQO2Y51	1589393759	704304037	The Maidens of Babylon	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Simple entertainment	The plot is highly unlikely, completely erratic and utterly captivating. As soon as you're introduced to Nikki, you know immediately this is one chick that is not to be messed be with. After being bitten by the snake, you know what's coming; you can foresee it the moment the incident occurs, but by then it's too late. Even afterwards when the story goes from maybe to no way in hell, you're already sucked in. The let down comes in the last two chapters. The climax of the story is hasty and added in only to excuse, not to explain. Meant to be a twist, the ending slights the reader and kills whatever attachment you had.   <br />  <br />The pace in the story is constant. That is, constant until you come to the last two chapters. Moving through the story at a reliable speed, Craig shifts gears and finishes off the last chapter in a hurry. It's rushed and bumpy. The effect is disorienting and may cause nausea; for this I suggest a paper bag. The atmosphere is non-existent and that is precisely the problem. There is no mood and no build-up.   <br />  <br />Craig's style of writing is intimate and straightforward. She writes as though she were talking to you over coffee or a drink. The only problem is her need to beat you over the head with the main character's ideosyncrasies. Nikki is a strong black woman with ass-kicking ability - we get it!! The characters are static. Not one player develops or has a realistic reaction to any of the events. They move through the story like pawns, lacking both emotions and creditability. They are quite literally a waste of space.   <br /> <br />Much like a car-wreck or a really bad movie at 2 a.m., this book makes absolutely no sense and yet you find yourself completley engrossed. You have to finish it to the end. You must see how it all turns out and that is the power the book holds.	2004-10-06
US	17117275	R30EY64HS0SCEM	1894815343	807306038	Crimson	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Hellishly advancing	Reminiscent of It, Crimson revolves around four friends who are entangled in a living nightmare. The plot is gripping and intense, a true page-turner.  Also, even though it carries the same air as King's, this one is It's superior in every possible way and as you read the only overshadowing the previous book carries is your amazement that you thought it's power would hold forever.    <br />   <br />The pace in the book is constant. Never pushing you ahead or lagging behind, the speed carries the story faultlessly. The atmosphere in the book is nauseatingly thick. As you read the pressure builds, increasing in both dread and anticipation. The setting in the story changes locales constantly, but maintains the normalcy of home and the expectations of reality.   <br />  <br />Rollo's style of writing is clear, concise and direct. Never one to use $.10 words, he writes without pretension, realizing he doesn't need to show off his large vocabulary to impress us. I thank you Gord, the readers thank you, but mostly dog-eared ten-year-old dictionaries around the world thank you.   <br />  <br />The characters start out great, both intelligent and genuine. Notice I said start. For some reason, as we follow these boys through adolescence into adulthood, their intelligence seems to dwindle. Their personalities, oddly enough, never changes. Rather than have their identies mature along with their age, they still act like scared little boys.   <br />  <br />One other problem occurred. It was on page 139. The sixth paragraph, thirtieth line, 349th word on the page. For the love of all that is nasty let Jack the Ripper rest in his murderous hole. There have been countless murders more gruesome and more mind-boggling than the case of Thee Who Shall Not Be Named.	2004-09-22
US	17117275	R2T7CQ2ML14DEU	0595263151	505561950	Darkness Fears: A Tale of The Moon-Chosen & Le Grymmeuere	Books	1	0	1	N	N	STAKE IT IMMEDIATELY!	The plot, let's see, where was the last place I saw it? Oh that's right, it was right next to the needle in the haystack. Assaulting the brain with too many characters, way too many terms and entirely too much information at one time, the plot goes AWOL. The story is congested, overdone and off-balance. Had the details been more spread out, the weight would have shifted the focus to the point intended - the vampires.  Not helping matters, the pace in the story moves like molasses on a winter's day. The speed never quite hits its intended stride and the build-up is always just a little too premature.   <br />  <br />The atmosphere is a chaotic mess. Alternating from panic to sarcastic to flighty.  The mood switches with the predictability of a tripping schizophrenic. I'm not asking for a lot here folks, just a little consistency. Armstead's style of writing is flashy, indulgent and long-winded. Constantly having to stop, grab a pen and write down a word or name, I grew irritated by the third chapter. Does he have talent?  Yes, but it's hard to see under the burden of an endless purge of ten-cent words.   <br />  <br />The characters are flat and one-dimensional. With so much time spent on the hierarchy of the fiends, Armstead slips up and neglects the most important part of all - the actual players involved. The author never establishes the characters past a short outline and a brief reason for the role they're playing; shame on you, Mr. Armstead, for skimping.	2004-09-22
US	17117275	R37I167IQHPCAW	0743480716	528457028	Underworld: Book 1 (Underworld (Pocket Star Books)) (Bk. 1)	Books	4	13	14	N	Y	Hauntingly Alluring	The plot captivates you from the first page. Taking two of horrors most legendary creatures and pitting them against each other, Underworld grabs an old idea and adds an element fans have been wondering for years. Who would win in a fight, Dracula or the Wolfman? What would be the repercussions if the strengths of both villains were combined into one individual? Another fear of mine was that there would be more action than story. Not so. Although the action is constant throughout the book, there is significantly more dialogue. Which would be a plus in any book, but in an adaptation it's a gold star. What I will say though is that for a complete overall enjoyment, read the book and watch the movie. Keep the balance and share the love.  <br />  <br />The pace in the book is hypersonic. You are constantly moving and shifting with just a brief pause in between. The atmosphere is dark, dank and heated. The location constantly shifts between a centuries old castle and an underground hideout. Both carry an air of desperation and the smell of decay. Cox's style of writing is both generous and sympathetic. He pens his tales with compassion, as though this battle existed inside him. Be it the screenplay or his own identity shining through, the man creates a world that is hauntingly alluring.  <br />  <br />The characters come off as cold, vengeful monsters. With loyalty the only tie that binds them, each one screams villain. That is the biggest twist in the book. Granted, they have barely any morals, kill daily and regret very little and yet, they still manage to extract sympathy. Even gaining love and understanding. Also just for the record, the book clearly explains the development of the attraction between Selene and Michael.	2004-09-22
US	17117275	R1I3976BORGLU9	1892389347	856384491	White and Other Tales of Ruin	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Provocative!	What most people, myself included, forget is that even though there may be monsters, demons and boogeymen, horror is really just a mirror. Hold up any frightening tale or poem, examine it and what you get is the heart of mankind. The only difference between the works is the mirror's clarity. Though all creators have their way with us, a really great author is not only able to tell a story, but can simultaneously reflect our own hearts. Tim Lebbon is not only an author, but he's also a great writer.  <br />  <br />Each plot is brutal and repugnant, yet beautiful and inspiring. All are distinctively original and as addictive as candy, but twice as dangerous. Perfect! The atmosphere suffocates you with the feel of madness and desperation. Weighing you down with a sense of complete annihilation. Lebbon's style of writing is intimate, refined and above all else -cryptic. Instead of laying it all on the line, he gives you only enough to provide the blueprints, allowing the reader to create and build around their own aversions and fears.   <br />  <br />The characters are by far Lebbon's true gift. Besides giving his cast flesh and bone, he grants them emotional depth and fallibility. Creating players that you can identify with, envision in your life and just simply, understand. Each one seeming to represent an aspect of the author and the people close to him or at least that's the image you get while reading. Each character is written as though the familiarity were expected, and should be received without question.	2004-09-13
US	17117275	R7P9Z9FK7KU90	1930997469	90610924	The Grand Struggle	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The Master has arrived	Twenty-two stories in all, O'Neill gives you a variety that will leave you breathless. Original and intense, each story has one simple thread that connects them - destruction. Be it the loss of a loved one, loss of freedom or the complete ruin of sanity, horror runs through this book with a tear in it's eye. I'm not even able to tell you which tale was my favorite because they all were. There was not one bad story in this whole collection. I love this book!!  <br />  <br />O'Neill's style of writing is shockingly graceful. He pens his tales with a heavy heart that can easily be felt and ratified. Now don't get too sentimental, because there is terror in every corner, panic in each shadow and pain throughout. Outwitting even yours truly, O'Neill makes you feel secure and protected only to suddenly open the door and let the Boogeyman himself in.    <br />  <br />Creating characters that are heavyweights, O'Neill avoids the easy pattern of black and white. There are no sides, no easily discernable good/bad guys. No player is without flaws, little imperfections that are both realistic and unique to the individual. Yet, each one has dignity and tenderness. Listen up kids; this is how it should be!	2004-09-07
US	17117275	R289Y1TUB2AALX	0843951958	188489315	Face	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Powerfully Chilling	The plot is not really about the hitchhiker, the constant danger, or even the bloodshed.  Those are all secondary.  It's really about the family and the cracks that have developed within.  Cutting a piece into this family's life, Lebbon takes us through the infestation of their lies, and makes us watch as the disease destroys them. The story, while not original, is innovative and powerfully chilling. The climax of this family's collision with the hitchhiker is explosive and the ending - enigmatic!  <br />  <br />The pace in the story is slow, but with intention and will. Lebbon's pace proves that the best thrill is the one that's earned, and earn you shall. His style of writing is crisp, concise, and psychologically intense. Although it's clear from the first page that the author is British, it's easy to eventually disregard as you join him on his journey. The atmosphere is claustrophobic, sucking the air from your lungs word by word. Moving through each chapter this world seems to get a little tighter, a little smaller, and a lot more compact. Brilliant!  <br />  <br />Now here is where Lebbon truly shines - his players. The characters are each affected individually and their reactions are both sound and unpredictable. Breathing life into each player, Lebbon keeps it real and allows each of them their own distinctive personality and depth. I even liked the antagonist, much to my dismay and shame.   <br />  <br />My only problem with the book in its entirety is the editing. Thanks to Rageaholics I didn't pound my head against the wall screaming obscenities - but I wanted to. I'm sure the editor was just as excited about this book as I was, but next time let's give it a second look - please.	2004-08-24
US	17117275	R3A81M5ZZZFOT7	0974503150	298483534	Bare Bone #5	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Five-carat diamond in the rough!	Damn that crew at Raw Dog Screaming Press, Damn them all! After almost rupturing my spleen compliments of Sick, I thought I had prepared well for BB#5. Coffee -check, blankie -check, empty stomach so as not to further harm my abdominal lining -check. Well kiddies, they got me again and it is with great shame to tell you that I am now cursed with LSD-like perceptual disturbances that the doctors say may or may not end in the not-too-distant future. Thanks Mr. Donihe, I owe you; can you dig it? I knew that you could.       Twisting and turning reality until it resembles nothing more than frayed nerves and mental disintegration, Kevin L. Donihe has assembled a collection that is both majestic and hideous. Out of each authors mouth, falls the bones of secrets that when exposed leave you feeling you dirty, horrified and oddly enough, sedated. Exquisite! Gone is the dance of pseudo-cerebral verbal garbage, this list of writers assault the mind with an audacity a girl can admire.      The diversity of plots is truly the highlight of this book. Without inhibition, this selection of tales incorporates everything from the surreal to the frighteningly mundane.  Each author's style of writing shows genteel craftsmanship with a concise execution and a pace that not only complements the story, it enhances the tale. The atmosphere in the book produces an almost palpable dementia. Shading the line between what is accepted reality and what is the author's psychosis, Donihe brings together what religious zealots would call an abomination and what I call Friday night at the Johnson's.       Raw Dog has produced yet another visceral horror to screw with your emotional state, leave you with nightmares that will make your body shudder and provide you with an alarmingly large amount of therapy conversation!      What are you doing still reading - Go Buy it New, Now!!!	2004-08-17
US	17117275	RP12PW4MHWWWO	0843951710	868359128	Possessions	Books	4	4	9	N	N	One of the most gratifying book I have ever read!	Here is an author with a fresh perspective, a little individuality and a lot more personality with a psychotic neurosis that would make Carl Panzram blush.    <br />  <br />The plot, although not original, is pure unadulterated gluttony. Moore takes a little bit of such classics as: Invasion of the Body Snatchers, Alien, and The Thing and adds his own twist of terror to the mix with skill. The only problem with the story is it never truly explains the reasoning behind most of what occurs. For example, why did the mom have the necklace, who is their father and what's the deal with the lottery ticket? With so many holes abound, it can make a reader feel drafty and miss that old blanket.   <br />  <br />The pace in the story is a thrilling roller coaster ride. Starting out with what seems like a perfectly normal afternoon, the suspense begins to build and maneuvers throughout with subtlety and finesse. You actually never notice the tension building until you suddenly realize you've had your hand clenched the entire time and you now have half-moons on your palm. Moore's style of writing is receptive, sardonic and laced with a lurking compassion. Right from the first page you realize that he isn't writing for you and he's not writing for the critics, he's writing for himself and to see just how much he can get away with. Perfect!   <br />  <br />The atmosphere in the book is filled with a sense of traumatic instability. The air becomes palpable and you can almost visualize the thin ice these characters tread on mentally and physically. The characters in the book are inviting, credible and at times, completely moronic. Reminding me of my own brother, Moore pulled off what so few have - sincerity. Capturing a photo-shot of adolescence, the author ingrains each mood, emotion and insane significance of what it's like to be a teenager.	2004-08-17
