US	17602165	R2UUQBQFR88GAU	1561484059	618025683	Eyes at the Window	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Difficult Read Yet Ultimately Worthy	Certainly this book benefitted from the first-hand experience of Evie Yoder Miller's Amish upbringing.  It rings true from start to finish.  Additionally, the book was intensely researched.  The reader is treated to faultless historical accuracy and the unwinding of an intriguing true-life mystery.  However, by no means was this an easy read.  The voice and content of the first-person narratives became redundant after a while; the characters and their many offspring confusing.<br /><br />There was little humor nor even marked pathos within these pages, perhaps purposefully so.  The author used simple, plain language to recount the lives of the simple, \\"plain\\" people of her book.  And plainly the daily round of rural life on the frontier was unrelenting and unrelieved, save for a few outstanding incidents.  Nothing much changed except the seasons.  Hard work, hardships, hard feelings, all were stoically borne.<br /><br />Even the denoument of the baby's death was mundane ~ the reason it occurred, and why the blame was pinned on someone else while the true murderer continued on in the community undetected until his deathbed confession.<br /><br />That the climax was almost an anticlimax was quite a satisfactory finish.  Further proof that truth packs a greater power than any fiction.	2005-06-18
US	17602165	R1WAV7C6EWQIJE	0684840022	864239842	Rising Tide: The Great Mississippi Flood of 1927 and How it Changed America	Books	5	29	33	N	N	Simply Sweeping	A huge book, covering the history of a huge river, a huge catstrophe, and the huge changes this affected politically, socially, and economically.  From page one there is a sense of portending doom.  Not simply the threatening flood, but the end of Delta society and the plantation system with all of its inconsistencies, patronages, its great and minor horrors.<br /><br />The Mississippi was everything, the only thing.  It influenced all who lived around or near it: the fabulously wealthy and cultured, and the greater lot of those who were dirt poor, downtrodden, exploited, expendable, mistreated.  It molded lives for better or for worse, created fortunes and misfortune, resisted those who tried to tame it ~ the dreamers, the geniuses, the profiteers, the adventurers, the idealists, the men of science, of politics and power, some honorable, others less than so.<br /><br />RISING TIDE is more than a detailed history of the rise of the Deep South, it delves into its convoluted inner workings, its darkest, meannest, most sorrowful chapters, and its brilliant, shining hours.  Steeped with the steaminess of a Delta summer, infused with the power of a river so large, so wild it refuted science, engineering and technology, RT represents the best of what nonfiction has to offer.	2005-06-18
US	17602165	R1YYH5ASPN4581	0375702083	624881311	Lost Lake: Stories	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Perceptive & Poetic	Mr. Slouka is a fine writer.  His words are beautifully strung together, his vision of the world elevates the mundane into poetry.  For this reader, such writing is much like a fancy cake or bonbon ~ the gorgeous product of excellent talent and grand effort.  Best read in small, savored bits.  Recommended.	2005-01-22
US	17602165	R31CFYNRH30AK7	0517505479	992726187	The Czechoslovak Cookbook: Czechoslovakia's best-selling cookbook adapted for American kitchens.  Includes recipes for authentic dishes like Goulash, ... Torte. (Crown Classic Cookbook Series)	Books	5	24	25	N	N	Authentic Indeed	The original Brizova publication features simple, solid cooking and uses ingredients most kitchens readily have on hand.  I haven't seen anything out of the ordinary in the cookbook, save to say if you don't like tongue and tripe and liver and heart, then simply take a pass at the recipes that use it.<br /><br />The real trick to honest Czech cooking is to make a tasty dish out of a few simple ingredients and to prepare it well.  As in America, Czechs cook to their own taste (thus the arguments regarding spices) creating personalized specialties from standbys such as dumplings, strudel, kolache and breads, fixing it to suit the tastes of those they cook for.<br /><br />Certain foods are a staple ~ dumplings, potatoes, rye bread; root vegetables such rutabaga, parsnips, celery root, turnips.  Kale, cabbage, cauliflower, and celery are also frequently used.  Horseradish and vinegar are common condiments, often sweetened to taste with a little sugar.  Czechs aren't afraid of butter, lard, chicken fat, goose greese, sausage, cured meats, cheese (farmer's cheese, cottage cheese .. not the hard cheese) and sour cream.  Perhaps not food to eat while on a diet because it will stick to your ribs and fill you up and keep you going and going.<br /><br />All in all, I treasure my taped up, spotted, tattered copy of Ms Brizova's original book and browse it frequently, each time revisiting my childhood.  Here's timeless old-country cooking that will never go out of style.	2004-12-25
US	17602165	RHBDQ0UJNN8YZ	0801843359	638738712	Pride in the Jungle: Community and Everyday Life in Back of the Yards Chicago (Creating the North American Landscape)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	The Real Back of the Yards	My folks hailed from Back of the Yards and Pilsen, before they moved further west to Garfield Ridge and then on to Berwyn, Riverside and the outlying suburbs of Hinsdale, Downers Grove and Lisle.  That said, you never leave the old neighborhood.  It travels with you in recollections and oft-told tales.  It was a hard life and folks had it rough, but it was a good life in many ways.<br /><br />Family was everything, everything was for the family.  That's why you got up early and worked like a dog ~ it was good to work, a privilege to have a job.  You saved aside to get ahead and make your dreams come true.  A home of your own, perhaps an automobile, enough to lay by for the future or send to the folks in the old country, or to share with the kids when it came time for them to get married and start their own family.<br /><br />Home and God and Church and Armour and Swift and the Corner Store were the ballasts of one's universe Back of the Yards.  This Jablonksy's unadulterated word-for-word-quoted interviews makes abundantly clear.  Real people lived real lives Back of the Yards, all thrown together from all over the world.  They made the best of it, they even thrived.  Fond memories abound and a pang of regret still lingers now that the only physical proof of the once mighty, sprawling megacomplex of canneries, slaughterhouses, pens and factories that made up the Union Stockyards is the limestone gate at Exchange Ave. at Peoria St. An era ended, one that helped to build Chicago to what it is today and provided many of its immigrants a start and a foothold and a springboard to the future.<br /><br />I recommend this as a mandatory companion to Upton Sinclair's THE JUNGLE.  Offset the lurid and the purple and the melodramatic with truth and reality and the people who lived it.  See the photos, read the interviews, look at the maps of the streets where hardworking, proud, hopeful folks made their homes and built their dreams there.<br /><br />It's a source of pride to say you come from Back of the Yards, a place many truly never leave.of the Yards, a place many truly never leave.	2004-12-19
US	17602165	R32QNV1AWDYKLF	1565124278	951179834	Poe & Fanny (Shannon Ravenel Books)	Books	3	3	7	N	N	Lacking	A rather turgid, disjointed read.  You know the sort.  Where the POV is strained and details are sketched in where they may.  There's a lot of historical information here, lots of names are dropped, but the characters never quite come alive.<br /><br />Much is made of the setting, little of what lay deeply within the hearts of these passionate, driven characters.  I'd hoped for more than a tedious, detailed, never-ending wardrobe account of poetess Mrs. Fanny Osgood (all pin tucks and beribboned bonnets and full skirts) and somewhat more besides the fact that Poe was a gaunt, dark-eyed genius with a taste for liquor and threadbare suits, with a white-clad consumptive young wife hidden in the shadows.<br /><br />May does not pick the brains of his characters ~ especially Poe, that wildly creative, outside-the-envelope literary figure who enthralls to this day.  May puts together his story by simply placing description and action and conversation onto the page, and leaves one to guess at motives and emotions.<br /><br />Too bad, because what might have been a fascinating gallop through a complex friendship blossomed into a true, shared passion becomes instead a pedestrian, properly fashionable stroll through the gaslit, cobbled streets of old New York ~ fur muffs, bonnets, top hats, walking sticks, pintucks, waistcoats and all.	2004-12-06
US	17602165	R19XF7UP2YC9OY	1572160101	874454095	Czech Proverbs (Proverb Series)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Tempting Taste of Czech Wit & Wisdom	This book is a gem, filled with such witticisms and warnings as: \\"Don't praise the banquet until you are going home,\\" \\"Do not select a wife at a dance but from a field of workers,\\" \\"Better one's own slice than another's loaf,\\" \\"Do not jump high in a room with a low ceiling\\", \\"Not every opinion is the truth,\\" and astutely \\"If a fool could keep silent he would not be a fool.\\"<br /><br />Fully illustrated with delightful woodcuts and idiomatic drawings of the Bohemian countryside rendered by artists from the old country.<br /><br />A great gift for anyone who enjoys the written word, or the sharing of words of wisdom. And do please keep in mind ~ \\"Happy thoughts are half your health.\\"<br /><br />Nazdar!	2004-12-05
US	17602165	R1UM1RAT0PC4JW	081180545X	302281907	Let's Be Safe	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Simple Rules For Staying Alive	Here's one generally alarming, thoroughly warmhearted nostalgic look at various grade school safety lessons, culled from books and pamphlets published from the 1930s thru the '60s, for the grave and serious purpose of pointing up to their tender audiences sundry \\"simple rules for staying alive.\\"<br /><br />The index includes the following topics: \\"Traffic Light Dangers,\\" \\"Street Crossing Etiquette\\", \\"Banana Peel Caution,\\" \\"Who Gets Hurt on the Tracks,\\" \\"The Signs of Life,\\" \\"The Dont's of Bicycling,\\" \\"The Cautious Twins,\\" \\"Campin' and Whittlin' Fun,\\" \\"Swimming and Skating Safety,\\" \\"Youth-Avoid the Penalties,\\" \\"On the Bus,\\" \\"Clean Parks and Clean Streets,\\" \\"In the Library,\\" \\"Matches and Electricity,\\" \\"Tooth Tales,\\" \\"Hygeine Hints,\\" \\"Small Cuts and Scratches.\\"<br /><br />If you hail from the baby boomer generation or before, you might just recognize these little illustrated vignettes from your very own schoolbooks.  In any case, you'll spend a pleasant hour or so browsing these pages, learning such poems as: \\"Food You Should Not Eat\\" and immersing yourself in the sweeping and epic \\"Tale of Tommy Tooth.\\"<br /><br />Pure alarmist fun.	2004-12-05
US	17602165	RTM36LVWDEJPO	0831745320	823357258	The Homesteader's Handbook: The Complete, Month-By-Month, How-To-Book for Farm, Garden, and Household	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Common Sense Farming	This book is an absolutely charming compilation of articles taken from 1840s-1860s issues of the AMERICAN AGRICULTURIST, the foremost farming publication of its time.<br /><br />Within these pages is common sense, down-to-earth information presented in the respectful, almost poetic language of a bygone era.  Plant it, raise it, harvest it, then put it by for the winter.  Covers all aspects of home and barn building and upkeep, livestock raising, crop care, fencing, plowing methods, vegetable and flower gardening, plus such asides as how to harvest ice, how to smoke and cure meat, how to capture rainwater for home use, and much much more.  All hints and methods are perfectly applicable to this day and age, especially for those who wish to simplify or simply make do.  Articles are arranged in a monthly format, from January thru December.  Thickly illustrated with lithographs and woodcuts of the era.<br /><br />A fascinating, educational glimpse into the past that's really worth a look.	2004-12-04
US	17602165	R2D3CMEXY5XYGX	0385507615	400682657	Blackbird House	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Visit Again & Again	These intertwined storied beg rereading.  There's an elusive depth to many of them, and the aforementioned literary imaging is presented masterfully.  This collection is written in differing prose; the earlier years of the house being presented in the formal, careful style of the past and the stories of the more contemporary age reflecting the language of that particular historical time.  You'll be introduced to some truly arresting characters, many which will stick with you long after you finish the book.  There's much creativity and magic to Hoffman's writing, and she readily suspends disbelief.  The perfect book for an enjoyable, rewarding weekend's read.	2004-12-04
US	17602165	R1KWLNQREI9O49	0345447212	271428762	Longing: A Novel (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	*BIG* Love	Here's a novel concerning BIG LOVE.  Huge, ecstatic, voracious, wistful, confirming, mad, giddy, crushing, sensuous, transcendent, imprisoning, painful, adoring, delightful, desirous, agonising, dreamy, virtuosic (adjectives gleaned within thirty seconds of casual leafing) love.  But say love for you resembles more caramel brownie chunk fudge swirl ice cream ... perhaps after squaring away the bills, and at the start of a long holiday weekend ~ then might you find this the bowlful of bombastic balderdash?<br /><br />All depends.<br /><br />The characters are engaging, well-fleshed out and colorful.  They're so engaged and fleshly and blushingly ruddy it astonishes they don't fly apart at the seams.  For example, a conversation between Clara and Robert, as Robert prepares to take his leave on some journey or other : 'I will come with you,' said Clara. 'Then I would not be able to go.' (Robert) 'Do you not need me?' (Clara) 'So much that I could not bear for you and death to occupy the same city, or my mind.'<br /><br />And here's a poem Robert wrote supposedly sixteen years into 'his longing for Clara Weick' and '... what he sings now to himself, wholly in his head.' : 'Waking in the morning, I ask Where can she be? In the evening I lament She hasn't come to me. And finally in the dark of night With agony I scream To realize she won't visit me Except within a dream.'<br /><br />To be fair, I understand the author was entirely convinced he'd penned an absolute tome to love in all various invigourating varieties.  Upon this realisation I allowed myself slack (quite liberating) and settled in, comfortably after a time, giving into it, actually enjoying the unfolding quasihistoric events, the copious clever footnotes (the best part), and the famous figures that flitted past such as Chopin and George Sand and Moescheles and Napoleon and Pleyel and Paganini and Mendelssohn and Beethoven and Brahms ~ we shan't touch upon what Brahms was supposed to have meant to both Clara and Robert; read for yourself if interested ~ even relishing the awful poetry and overblown amourous admissions.<br /><br />Once arrived to the novel's completion and into the Reader's Guide thoughtfully provided by Ballantine, it made better sense to me.  In this Guide Landis admits : 'I wanted to write a book in which I didn't have to make anything up and yet got to invent everything.  I wanted to be grounded in history and exalted in fiction.  I wanted to adhere to the facts and to write a work of the imagination.'<br /><br />When questioned what other titles he'd considered for his invention he said, 'You'll be sorry you asked.  Like : AGITATION; INTERLUDE; NIGHT WRAPS EVERYTHING IN DARKNESS; FANTASIE; EXCEPT WITHIN A DREAM; THE SECRET LISTENER ~ most of these may ring a bell with people who have read the novel.  But it was SONGS FOR THE DISTANT BELOVED that survived longest before I realized that the book must be called LONGING.'<br /><br />And finally when asked whether he was happy with this title, he responded : 'Of course not.'<br /><br />A satisfactory summation.self if interested ~ even relishing the awful poetry and overblown amourous admissions.    Once arrived to the novel's completion and into the Reader's Guide thoughtfully provided by Ballantine, it made better sense to me.  In this Guide Landis admits : 'I wanted to write a book in which I didn't have to make anything up and yet got to invent everything.  I wanted to be grounded in history and exalted in fiction.  I wanted to adhere to the facts and to write a work of the imagination.'     When questioned what other titles he'd considered for his invention he said, 'You'll be sorry you asked.  Like : AGITATION; INTERLUDE; NIGHT WRAPS EVERYTHING IN DARKNESS; FANTASIE; EXCEPT WITHIN A DREAM; THE SECRET LISTENER ~ most of these may ring a bell with people who have read the novel.  But it was SONGS FOR THE DISTANT BELOVED that survived longest before I realized that the book must be called LONGING.'     And finally when asked whether he was happy with this title, he responded : 'Of course not.'    A satisfactory summation.	2004-08-27
US	17602165	R16XJCSL6TXHL6	0312421818	156310833	The Book of Illusions: A Novel	Books	3	1	2	N	N	A Rather Dry Run	There are at least three major stories in this novel.  That of David Zimmer, a professor who lost his wife and two sons in a plane crash, that of Hector Mann, a silent film comedian who entered the genre as it was rapidly folding to a close, and that of Alma Grund, daughter of Hector Mann's cameraman, an expert on Mann, and Zimmer's love interest.<br /><br />Watching a Mann comedy draws Zimmer out of his prolonged, unrelieved grief for his dead family ~ we know he is grieving, we are told this again and again.  Because of this, Zimmer takes it upon himself to explore the life and films of obscure actor Mann.  As he does Zimmer realises Mann's life mirrors his own to a goodly extent, essentially a series of reactions to circumstances, some of them quite awful.<br /><br />Auster's descriptions of Mann's films are entertaining; he devised some intriguing plots and displayed an obviously well-researched grasp of the finer details of this medium.  Where the book falls flat is when he strives to instill a touch of humanity into his characters.  His unrelieved expository writing style is strangely distancing; I never quite got into the heads or hearts of anyone in this book.  For example, the love story between Zimmer and Grund presumably is supposed to represent some great, star-struck, karmic-soulmate type of romance, but instead comes off as overblown and tediously dramatic.<br /><br />Auster's trademark manner of writing might take some getting used to.  He writes in little explosions, piling up the narrative then veering onto a different track that twists into another story.  It's not a swift ride either.  Some of these tracks meander for pages and pages before winding to a finish.  It's rather offputting, as if Auster holds his subject matter at arm's length while at the same time thoroughly examining it beneath a microscope.<br /><br />Since Auster delights in the incongruous one must work at suspending disbelief.  (Throughout the book I found myself thinking, 'my, that's clever' or, 'what a neat turn of phrase').  Emotions typically run at a fever pitch and there are intervals of implausible action.  We are placed into a world where blows of fate and bad luck and unfortunate timing rule the day, forcing the characters into directions they wouldn't have otherwise taken.  And that's where Auster's distancing writing style proves the most effective.  Ultimately the reader isn't wrung of their own emotions and not much is demanded of them.  Which, depending on your viewpoint, can be a very fine thing or the absolute worst way to spend time with a novel.a neat turn of phrase').  Emotions typically run at a fever pitch and there are intervals of implausible action.  We are placed into a world where blows of fate and bad luck and unfortunate timing rule the day, forcing the characters into directions they wouldn't have otherwise taken.  And that's where Auster's distancing writing style proves the most effective.  Ultimately the reader isn't wrung of their own emotions and not much is demanded of them.  Which, depending on your viewpoint, can be a very fine thing or the absolute worst way to spend time with a novel.	2004-08-25
US	17602165	R1WFYU63U471MA	1558610332	389190039	Now in November	Books	5	30	34	N	N	Nobly Poetic Novel	Josephine Johnson won the Pulitzer Prize for 'Now In November' in 1935 at the age of 24.  This was her first novel.  It is a shortish work, running all of 231 pages, but what fills these pages is astonishing.  Powerful and wise, wrenchingly real, 'Now In November' immerses the reader into a world harsh and unforgiving during a time of trial and drought, rendered  through a poetic prose that cuts to the quick.<br /><br />  The narrator is Marget, a quiet soul who sees all and feels deeply yet cannot utter what fills her mind and her heart ~ and therein lies her fatal flaw.  Marget seeks solace in the woods and hills and the small beauties of nature, finding loveliness where she can even as the world around her agonises from lack of rain.  Despite the drought, work on the farm is unrelenting, rounds of planting and milking and incessant hoping for rain ... and always, always running beneath this a continuous fear and worry to make the mortgage and meet the debts.<br /><br />  Adding to the worries of farm and weather is eldest daughter Kerrin, beautiful but dangerously insane.  Her erratic behaviour hones a razor edge to all that the family endures.  Everything comes to a head when a hired man arrives and falls in love with the youngest daughter, Merle.  Merle is the most resilient of the three sisters ~ hearty, jolly, loud and opinioned, the antithesis of her sister Marget.<br /><br />Kerrin immediately sets her twisted sights on Grant in a wildly unhinged manner which proves her complete undoing. Behind the scenes, scarcely noticed, Marget loves Grant with a hopeless, mute, soul-cracking love; she can only stand by helplessly as Grant suffers from his own unrequited love.  Merle does not love Grant, she loves the land and her mother and her father and her sense of duty; there's no room in her heart for more.  Marget has the room, she'd welcome Grant unreservedly, but dares not suggest her feelings to him as she understands she'd never fill Grant's emptiness ~ the void that only Merle would satisfy.<br /><br />  One night a fire starts on the farm, ravishing more than land and crops.  The mother is mortally injured, and Kerrin finally succumbs to the dark demons in her mind.  Grant, cast adrift amongst the wreckage, arrives to a final, permanent decision. After that nothing is the same.<br /><br />  Yet, the land remains, and the farm, and the debt.  And Merle, to bear her burdens and work like a man. And Marget, who in the end loses the most but must endure, refusing to believe that this is the end.  She says as much.  'And if this is the consolation of a heart in its necessity, or that easy faith born of despair, it does not matter, since it gives us courage somehow to face the mornings.  Which is as much as the heart can ask at times.'<br /><br />Almost breathtaking in its honesty, this is a truly remarkable novel written by a genuine talent.<br /><br />  Johnson attended Washington University from 1926 to 1931. In 1955, Washington University awarded her an honorary Doctor of Humane Letters degree.  She was actively interested in the problems of contemporary society and was a member of various organizations that deal with inequality and poverty, including the St. Louis Urban League, the American Civil Liberties Union, and the Cooperative Consumers of St. Louis.only Merle would satisfy.           One night a fire starts on the farm, ravishing more than land and crops.  The mother is mortally injured, and Kerrin finally succumbs to the dark demons in her mind.  Grant, cast adrift amongst the wreckage, arrives to a final, permanent decision. After that nothing is the same.           Yet, the land remains, and the farm, and the debt.  And Merle, to bear her burdens and work like a man. And Marget, who in the end loses the most but must endure, refusing to believe that this is the end.  She says as much.  'And if this is the consolation of a heart in its necessity, or that easy faith born of despair, it does not matter, since it gives us courage somehow to face the mornings.  Which is as much as the heart can ask at times.'       Almost breathtaking in its honesty, this is a truly remarkable novel written by a genuine talent.         Johnson attended Washington University from 1926 to 1931. In 1955, Washington University awarded her an honorary Doctor of Humane Letters degree.  She was actively interested in the problems of contemporary society and was a member of various organizations that deal with inequality and poverty, including the St. Louis Urban League, the American Civil Liberties Union, and the Cooperative Consumers of St. Louis.	2004-08-09
US	17602165	R18CEVPZ41XB46	0140119795	762966469	The Cape Ann (Contemporary American Fiction)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Unforgettable	Once in a very great while a book comes along that is truly unforgettable; 'The Cape Ann' is just such.  Wise, warm, and unflinching, Faith Sullivan skillfully captures the innocence and questionings inherent in childhood, and the funny, difficult, illuminating, shocking, and ultimately indelible lessons one learns along the way. You shall grow to love Lark and her mother, you will cheer them on as they struggle through obstacles to make for themselves the type of life that they wish for, dream of, and deserve. The small town of Harvester, Minnesota, the characters with their heartbreaks and yearnings and triumphs and failures both big and small, the rural lifestyle, the Depression era ~ everything interweaves so flawlessly that you'll lose yourself in this book, and feel sorry when it draws to a close. Within these pages you'll have met a host of good, affectionate, honest-hearted people, and some not so, and you'll be the better for the knowing of them, and the world in which they live. Extremely highly recommended, one of my most treasured literary finds.  Waste no time in getting a copy for yourself.	2004-07-21
US	17602165	R3N51M1CMC4H05	0520030680	82852746	The Parade's Gone By...	Books	4	97	98	N	N	They Were There	For many years this book was considered the definitive, authoritative tome on silent films, and remains, today, a must read for anyone interested in this subject.  Its greatest, most singular draw is the priceless information Brownlow gathered through interviews conducted with over 100 silent film personalities, directors, producers, and cameramen.  Brownlow pieced together a one-of-a-kind reminiscence of a by-gone era from the stories, anecdotes, and first hand observations of many of the now-dead greats of the past, infusing an immediacy to a time previously shrouded in myth and misconception, and in the process left behind an incomparable legacy.  Legends such as Clarence Brown, Francis X. Bushman, Charles Chaplin, Marlene Dietrich, Allan Dwan, Abel Gance, Dorothy and Lillian Gish, Alfred Hitchcock, Buster Keaton, Fritz Lang, Jesse Lasky, Harold Lloyd, Arthur Miller, Pola Negri, Mary Pickford, Hal Roach, Charles Rosher, David O. Selznick, Josef von Sternberg, Gloria Swanson, King Vidor, and Adolph Zukor ~ plus dozens more ~ contributed their stories and offered their opinions and recollections in their own words.  One is a little cowed to realise that when Brownlow wrote this book the silent era was still a fairly recent phenomenon, less than a half century removed from the author's contemporary era of the 1960s, and Brownlow himself yet a young man in his twenties.  In fact, Brownlow was a sort of child prodigy, beginning to collect historic films at the age of 11. Brownlow was only 15 years old when he obtained two reels of Abel Gance's 1927 epic film 'Napoleon', which he restored as an adult, and obtained his first industry job as an apprentice editor at a documentary production house when he was but 17 years old.  In this book Brownlow affords everything its due: from the earliest years to the advent of the talkies, and touches on all aspects of film-making, marketing, and advertising.  Many photos are scattered throughout the book, including some very rare stills from Brownlow's own collection. Brownlow is a filmmaker and self-taught historian who has made the restoration and preservation of silent films his life's work. He has overseen the restoration of endangered landmark films and inspired other preservation efforts. Brownlow has also researched the period and authored a series of books, beginning with 'The Parade's Gone By' in 1968, and documentaries including 'Abel Gance: The Charm of Dynamite', 'Unknown Chaplin', 'Hollywood: A Celebration of the American Silent Film', 'Buster Keaton: A Hard Act to Follow' and 'D.W. Griffith: Father of Film'. A few caveats.  Since its 1968 publication date, some of the films mentioned as lost have indeed been found, and the dire predictions offered by Brownlow as to the state of cinema of the future have, at least up until this point, proven unfounded.  Indeed Brownlow himself has affected cinema greatly through his own restoration efforts and productions, allowing us all a more ready access to the `Golden Era' of film.tills from Brownlow's own collection. Brownlow is a filmmaker and self-taught historian who has made the restoration and preservation of silent films his life's work. He has overseen the restoration of endangered landmark films and inspired other preservation efforts. Brownlow has also researched the period and authored a series of books, beginning with 'The Parade's Gone By' in 1968, and documentaries including 'Abel Gance: The Charm of Dynamite', 'Unknown Chaplin', 'Hollywood: A Celebration of the American Silent Film', 'Buster Keaton: A Hard Act to Follow' and 'D.W. Griffith: Father of Film'. A few caveats.  Since its 1968 publication date, some of the films mentioned as lost have indeed been found, and the dire predictions offered by Brownlow as to the state of cinema of the future have, at least up until this point, proven unfounded.  Indeed Brownlow himself has affected cinema greatly through his own restoration efforts and productions, allowing us all a more ready access to the `Golden Era' of film.	2004-07-10
US	17602165	R3FOIPQWT5EIZS	0679743081	68533875	Fraud	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Vintage Brookner With A Twist	I shall go out on a limb and deem this the best Brookner I have read thus far.  A good holiday read, for as with most Brookner, this is a demanding read, requiring time, dedication, and attention to her detailed prose.  However, this book differs from most Brookner, as it slides between points of view, taking us effortlessly and seemlessly into the minds of three disparate main characters ~ Anna Durrant; the doctor; and Mrs Marsh.  There are also other, supporting characters whom we are introduced to, all of whom provide enlightening peeks into Brookner's trademark 'circumscribed lives'.  Anna Durrant, the heroine, is written almost as a parody of Brookner's well-educated, well-off, well-kept women who have devoted themselves to some desperate, hopeless cause or another.  Anna is disatisfied, she realises how boring, how up-tight she appears to others, and this adds for a bit of ~ dare I say? ~ light relief. Mrs Marsh, the elderly curmudgeon Anna befriends despite herself and against the oppositions of Miss Marsh, is a wonderful outspoken, fully-fleshed, roundly-experienced individual ~ the perfect foil for the reticent, protected Anna.  And the doctor who suffers a reluctant attraction to Anna's very slender charms is superbly characterised.  The doctor has chosen another over Anna, a bright, active, shimmery, shallow sort of woman, an Anna-antithesis, and this becomes the catalyst for all sorts of inner turmoil and Brooknerian heartbreak.  Take this one out to the terrace, pour yourself a lemonade, and settle into a satisfying, depthy read.	2004-07-09
US	17602165	R2Q25XZVCVSI7H	055327130X	376474505	The Complete I Hate to Cook Book	Books	5	47	48	N	N	A Tribute To The Non Cook	Here's a woman after my own heart: she hates to cook and is unashamed to admit this.  The manner in which Miss Bracken admits is rife with humour and finesse ~ plus she tosses into the bargain 180 quick, easy, housewife tested recipes (this book was published in the '60s ~ 1960 to be exact) that anyone can make, even those hostile toward kitchen environs.  Miss Bracken's wit is peppery (note the food connotation), vinegary (ditto), and her prose is salted (!) through with references to classic literature, tidbits of common sense advice, and slams at 'pop' psychology (as hilarious then as it remains today). Here's a sampling of (some of) what you're in for with this read:  'The Leftover, or Every Family Needs a Dog'; 'Spuds and Other Starches, or Ballast is a Girl's Best Friend'; 'Potluck Supper, or How to Bring Water For the Lemonade'; 'Luncheon for the Girls, or Wait Until You Taste Maybelle's Peanut Butter Aspic'. In between the pages of these chapters you'll find recipes for such tasties as: 'Skid Road Stroganoff', 'Sub Gum Yuk', 'Oddment', 'Old Faithful', and, appropo for the era, 'Beetniks' (a nifty way of fixing shredded pickled red beets).  If you catch a whiff of the droll and acerbic, you are quite correct.  Peg Bracken is a jewel.  Very popular in the Sixties and Seventies, she also published an Appendix to 'The I Hate To Cook Book', plus several other books including 'The I Hate To Housekeep Book', 'A Window Over the Sink', 'I Try To Behave Myself' (etiquette), 'But I Wouldn't Have Missed It For The World' (travel), and 'On Getting Old For The First Time'.  In all of these, she never misses a beat, her timing is impeccable.  The sort of woman you'd love to have for a friend or neighbour, especially when one runs out of sugar and can't find the car keys.  I highly recommend you begin your Bracken odyssey with this book, and see where it leads you.  Enhanced by Hilary Knight's warm and witty line drawings.	2004-07-01
US	17602165	R1W4WWJPYGBAPU	0826451578	863497444	Alice Guy Blaché: Lost Visionary of the Cinema	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Blache Is Not Blase	This hugely expansive book receives five stars for content, thoroughness of research, and plumbing of the depths of extant examples of Miss Guy Blache's memoirs and works ~ but not for reader-friendliness.  The tone the author takes is most academic, which is understandable once you know that this ten-years-in-the-making, authorative benchmark biography began as a doctoral dissertation.  Alison McMahan covers every square inch of Alice Guy Blache's life and her contributions to silent cinema, plus tosses in some fascinating asides regarding the origins of photography, film, and moving pictures.  I found the chapter detailing the early mechanical photographic devises most absorbing, losing myself in such obscurities as the phenakitiscope, zoetrope, and praxinoscope.  Miss Guy had the great good fortune to be French, living in France, the birthplace of photography, during the era of the embryonic beginnings of film.  She got in on the ground floor, starting her career as secretary to Leon Gaumont, founder of the legendary Gaumont Laboratories, which co-liasoned with the also-famed Lumiere brothers, and held association with Melies.  Guy, in her position with Gaumont, was allowed permission to dabble with cameras and film, which, very early on, led to the production of her own films, years before the turn of the 20th century.  Guy is assumed, with some few facts to dispute this, to have produced the first fiction film and the first close up within a fiction film.  Miss Guy was a prodigious director, churning out hundreds of films in all genres, first in France and then in the US at her Fort Lee Solax Studio.  Her husband, Herbert Blache, devised a sound system known as the chronophone which could be rigged to synchronise a sound track with a projected film.  Together they made productions to fit with this chronophone, a notoriously unreliable instrument, which more than anything else proved the eventual ruin of them.  I recommend this book in conjunction with the biography of Lois Weber: The Director Who Lost Her Way in History.  Read both of these books for a wonderful introduction to a sadly passed-over aspect of silent cinema, that of the era of the flourishing woman director, studio owner, and visionary.  As such, both books succeed exceedingly.raphy of Lois Weber: The Director Who Lost Her Way in History.  Read both of these books for a wonderful introduction to a sadly passed-over aspect of silent cinema, that of the era of the flourishing woman director, studio owner, and visionary.  As such, both books succeed exceedingly.	2004-06-29
US	17602165	RQ55ATZRZZI36	0313299455	311923522	Lois Weber: The Director Who Lost Her Way in History (Contributions to the Study of Popular Culture)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Concise Bio of a Mostly-Forgotten Cinematic Pioneer	This slender book provides us the basics of the life of Lois Weber, one of a remarkable group of women pioneers active in silent cinema.  Before the establishment of the studio system in the Twenties, women directors figured prominently, writing and producing literally thousands of films.  Miss Weber was a giant among them, reknowned for her subject matter, which ranged from controversial social issues including birth control and abortion, ('Where are My Children' ~ 1916), to religious hypocrisy, ('The Hypocrites' ~ 1915), and intellectual domestic drama, ('Discontent' ~ 1916, 'The Blot' ~ 1921).  Miss Weber brought to her films much of her own background, including that of a stint as a street corner evangelist singing hymns in the slums of New York and Pittsburgh, and her up-and-down marriage to Phillips Smalley, which appeared a great driving force and sustenance to her until their divorce, from which she never quite fully recovered.  Miss Weber approached filmmaking as one might a platform, expressing 'a great desire to convert [her] fellow men' to her way of viewing and questioning the world around her.  Miss Weber prefered to use real locations over sets, and strove to provide her viewers a sense of compelling realism, down to the smallest of details.  Her singular attention and careful craftsmanship earned her great respect among her contemporaries, and much critical acclaim.  Works such a 'Hypocrites' and 'The Blot' retain the power to move audiences of today.  It is high time Lois Weber is rediscovered, and her existing films made more readily available.	2004-06-29
US	17602165	R3QB61QOXLOXKP	0671527851	532124968	Emmeline	Books	5	15	22	N	N	Tragic Facts Much Stranger Than Fiction	We are all acquainted with the familiar chestnut: 'truth is stranger than fiction'.  The tragic story of Emmeline Mosher (the real Emmeline spelt her name with a single m) is complete truth, and truth does not get much stranger than this.  Emmeline's tale begins commonly enough: the oft told, well-worn story of a poor, naive country girl come to the city to find honest work, and in the process is seduced.  Emmeline's seduction is especially poignant, as she has honest feelings, though they be confused, for her seducer, a much older man of much higher status, who plays on Emmeline's feelings to his advantage.  Emmeline becomes 'with child', flees back to her home in shame, gives up her baby, and is forced to endure the guilt and sorrow of this event every long, empty day of her life.  Until ~ one day, a stranger arrives to town.  They meet, and there is an immediate, electric bond which deepens quickly into love.  The two marry, and all seems well enough until Emmeline arrives to a shocking realisation.  Whom she has married is indeed her own illegitimate son, the baby she gave away years ago, the product of her seduction.  Certainly all of this sounds bluely lurid, fodder for the 'Daily Mirror' or worse, but Miss Rossner's ('Looking for Mr Goodbar') prose stands up to the plotline unflinchingly and carries it through.  Rossner tells the tale the only way it might be told successfully: straight up, without flourish.  These were real people, with real flaws, and here they are, in front of you, unvarnished.  Such an unimaginable twist of circumstance incurred results.  After Emmeline's disasterous marriage ended,  she became a complete outcast, living on the fringes of her community, unvisited, alone, ekeing out a subsistance through her garden and her chickens.  But her  singular story lives on, in word and through music.  For its 40th anniversary season in 1996, the Santa Fe Opera presented the world premiere performances of Tobias Picker's first opera, 'Emmeline', which is based on Emeline Mosher's remarkable story, with its true-to-life undertones of the Oedipus legend.hich is based on Emeline Mosher's remarkable story, with its true-to-life undertones of the Oedipus legend.	2004-06-29
US	17602165	R2QC47CSEUMVK4	0865731659	76829072	Perfect Parties	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Perfectly Inspirational	This book explains the how-tos and wherefores of party-giving so straightforwardly and inspirationally you're bound to be a smashing host / hostess, no matter what your level of expertise.  Must arrange a cocktail party? A dinner do? A supper buffet? Perhaps you're in an al fresco picnicking mood, or have the yen for a garden fete.  Not to worry, it's a snap.  Everything's in here, explained in plain English and gorgeous photographs: decor and plans and food and more.  Included is a helpful timeline / checklist for your more involved parties, which removes all doubt as to when to book the venue (6 to 12 months ahead of time), clean the silver (5 days ahead of time), and uncork the wine (2 hours before your guests arrive), plus all the nitty gritty in between.  Get hold of this book, browse it through, then phone up friends and throw a bash!  Forward by Sir Elton John (what doesn't that man do?)	2004-06-28
US	17602165	R3KYPAJNOM3ULN	1400042070	669988222	The Amateur Marriage: A Novel	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Miss Tyler is Not Amateur	Anne Tyler is a gifted writer. That said, I do believe some of her books are more brilliant than others.  'Saint Maybe', 'The Accidental Tourist', 'A Patchwork Planet' are stellar.  'The Amateur Marriage', from the viewpoint of this long-standing, admiring reader of Miss Tyler's works, is about where it should be.  It isn't her best work, but it is the work of a mature novelist who's a master at her craft and retains an indisputable talent.  Once again, Miss Tyler brings together a story populated with her particular brand of people, who become someway taken up into a life not entirely of their own choosing, who are mostly good at heart and honest, striving to make the best of it, to see things clear, to make sense of it all, generally muddling along imperfectly.  Michael and Pauline are not as well-fleshed out as some of her other characters; in my opinion the most interesting 'character' in this book was the World War Two era Baltimore Polish neighborhood, which sustained change as time passed, and reflected the changes occurring within the characters.  I too picked up on the 'formulaic' feel of this book, but the simple fact is that Miss Tyler's works are indeed written in a specific manner, which might be referred to as 'Tyleresque', as some other novels might be referred to as 'Hemmingwayesque' or 'Shakespearean' in their content.  Her books take on a recognisable turn in word and content, her prose a familiar pace and canter.  The subject matter she choses for this novel is difficult, that of a marriage in which two people never quite connect, are never quite content. She places this subject matter within an era in which many changes were occurring, societally and fundamentally.  Miss Tyler utilises her timeframe as one would a prop, pointing forward certain aspects such as the hippie movement and the post-war years. As I'm a die-hard fan of Tyler's, I'm willing to accept her best with her not-so.  And I eagerly await her next novel.	2004-06-25
US	17602165	R14BVM596CF5DW	0806976934	732339564	Romance of Flowers	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Lovely Lovely, and Shall I Say Lovely?	I have a passion for flowers, but who'd know it from the pitiful scraggly marigolds, the struggling verbena, the droopy pansies that make up my garden.  Thus, I pore over books such as this green with jealousy (appropriately), realising that in a perfect world mine would be these posies, and bloom they would beside my doorstep with wild abandon.  Violets are my favourites: the sweet violet, viola odorata, and the double Parma violets infused with the most heady, exotic, delectable perfume. Sadly, sweet violets are rarer than rare these days, having been passed over by nurserymen with an eye to profit from the commonly-available African violets. African violets aren't true violets at all, but Saintpaulia ionantha, a Gesneriad native to southeastern Africa, and to my mind at least, a sorry second cousin. Oh! to have lived in the Victorian era when violet sellers stood by almost every corner, and young ladies wore violet corsages to dances, duly warned by etiquette books not to smell too often or deeply of their flowers so as to avoid 'overcoming their senses'.  The photographs are simply gorgeous, scrumptious enough to eat, and by the by one can indeed eat violets, candied or infused within sirup, the instructions for which come included within the book.  A perfect gift book for the flower lover on your list.	2004-06-24
US	17602165	R34SYQV1WCXXIT	0520234340	897900822	Lillian Gish: Her Legend, Her Life	Books	3	7	7	N	N	Fact Filled Yet Faulty	You shall learn within these pages of a life which encompassed more than a screen star presence, which overspilled into areas such as business and management, areas from which, during the early part of the last century, women were commonly barred.  Miss Gish stormed the gates and bully for her.  Despite the rather 'snide' tone taken by the author (was that necessary, Mr Affron?) I carried away from this reading a satisfactory amount of facts, and also a few interesting unresolveds and still-persistant myths, such as the alluded-to possible romance with her business partner, her sympathy for D. W. Griffith's controversial politics, and her practised innocence, which was anything but. Miss Gish enjoyed a long and a healthy career, to the end remaining well-respected. This in and of itself ought testify to her personality.  I do agree with the one reviewer who complained of the lack of photos.  I too never can have enough.  Miss Gish was incredibly photogenic, and certainly several more stills of her in her pictures could have seen use.	2004-06-23
US	17602165	R3M2PAF3NMPSI4	0609807161	232930099	Batavia's Graveyard: The True Story of the Mad Heretic Who Led History's Bloodiest Mutiny	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Bloody Batavia	I recommend this to those with a yen for adventure, a mind to history accurately portrayed, and the stomach to digest said history.  Cruelty is not a novel trait, it carries a long and storied history.  Here, within these pages, is detailed a history of such enormous cruelty that it shocks deeply, even in this 21st century wherein lies cruelty and unfairness of such prevalence as to dull many to its varieties and vagaries.  In autumn of 1628, the Dutch East India's flagship, the Batavia, loaded with gold, jewels and gems, plus 300 crewmen and passengers, foundered upon her maiden voyage on a reef off the west coast of Australia.  The captain, Francisco Pelsaert, abandoned on the island the passengers and his crewmen, then departed with a his skipper to rally help almost 2,000 miles hence on the isle of Java.  Second man, Jeronimus Cornelisz, was charged with those left behind.  A dangerous fanatic and a deluded religionist, Cornelisz wielded a brutal, deranged control which included the murder of anyone who appeared a threat to his rule or to his religion, or to the limited resources all were forced to share, and then later on, for no reason other than for blood sport.  The scenes in which entire families are butchered, men, women, and children, are certainly chilling, but no less so than the scenes detailing what happened once help arrived, and those responsible were brought to trial. (One cannot imagine how awful is the death 'being broken on the wheel'.  St. Catherine is said to have died this way. ) Justice can be as cruel as injustice, so do not expect a satisfying denouement.  As this was real life, all is not well-wrapped up come the end, and bad things happen in the name of Good.	2004-06-22
US	17602165	R2U96LWPD5PKZW	0380730138	979924066	Vinegar Hill (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	4	2	5	N	N	Dutiful Drudgery	What is it that holds one within a family, a marriage, outside of love and duty?  Lack of courage perhaps, or misguided religious inclinations.  The protagonist puts up with more than many might because of her strong religious beliefs, dogged beliefs which leaves her a husk of a woman.  I cannot emote an empathy for this, but I can empathise with sticking it at all costs even when all is bleak and hopeless and hard by.  Ellen's inlaws are mean and spiteful, harsh and narrow minded, and set off Ellen's insecurities to best (worst?)  advantage.  Her husband is henpecked, not by Ellen who does not know how to and is too spineless to do so, but by his embittered, cruel, old world parents.  Everything falls most burdensomely on the children of the marriage, who feel the misery around them, but cannot understand why there is such, save for the fact that it must be all of their fault.  Ansay's prose is relentlessly descriptive, the details she pays mind to myriad and minute.  Not a good read, not a good ending, but rather a painstaking portrait of a time, a culture, and a mindset.	2004-06-22
US	17602165	R6GM6SGTMVBCE	0520231511	385922296	Undertaker of the Mind: John Monro and Mad-Doctoring in Eighteenth-Century England (Medicine and Society)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Mad-doctoring Monro	Monro's life and career have been satisfactorily documented, however this book attempts to bring forward more detail and evermore facts, and as such is a worthy treatise.  In our day of analysts and a theory for everything, it is almost impossible to understand that in the eighteenth century one might be forever locked away for such diagnoses as truculance and intractability.  Besides the awful Bedlam most associated with this era, there were also private, rather more poshy institutes that catered to the rich and the famous, to which Monro also applied his 'mad-doctoring' skills.  By means of his profession, Monro was privvy to the social world, and made acquaintance with the aristocracy and assorted politicians, would-bes, also-rans, and dignitaries. The authors utilise a huge base of extant materials to draw this portrait of a fascinating time in medical history.  Especially noteworthy are the exceptional mentioned drawings, which alone are worth the price of the book.	2004-06-22
US	17602165	RMSIBBKJ2PRMM	0312421990	447498808	What Was She Thinking?: Notes on a Scandal: A Novel	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Funny Wise & Insightful	Here is one book that is greater than the film and the film itself was pretty great.  That says a lot.  The greatest difference being the character of Barbara Covett. (catch the insinuation of that last name?)  She's not overly aggressive nor predatory and she's straight but entirely rejected by the male population.  She's lonely and shy and forgiving to a fault especially in her friendship with Sheba whose portrayal in the book is that of a juvenile woman with a crashing lack of foresight and judgement.  Sheba is selfish and superficial and a disaster waiting to happen.  Which did in the form of a pupil upon whom she heaped more of her muddled hopes and dreams than any adolescent (or grown up for that matter) could ever hope to manage.  There are many more scenes of Barbara and Sheba together in various places and locales, and we're introduced to Barbara's sister and Sheba's mother who fill in the background story nicely.  We learn why Sheba married the staid older Richard and what made Barbara such a lonely outsider.  We understand how Richard facilitated his wife's digression unknowingly and complacently.  The character of daughter Polly plays a much greater role in the book and one can visualize she's becoming the mirror image of her messed-up mum.  Zoe Heller is wise and smart and chooses her words with care.  Nothing in this book is wasted.  There's lots of of hugely funny stuff here and an overall tone of acerbic wit.  I couldn't tell if she liked how the film was done or not.  In her interview she never met the camera face on and more or less commented on her characters and left the film alone.  It's been said that seeing your novel made into a movie is like having your oxen made into boullion cubes.  Maybe not so drastic here, but along the lines of a nice gritty bouillabaisse made into a creamy broth.	2004-06-22
US	17602165	R2NJEGBK5CDKPA	0553572997	501395694	The Alienist	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Satisfying	The finest writing, to my mind, is that which uses one's mind.  Caleb Carr fully engages the minds of his readers by expertly plumbing the minds of his characters, including a chillingly twisted mind, that of a serial killer. Mr Carr invites his readers to sort out details, to route out clues, to struggle along with the protagonist, New York Times writer John Moore, as he devises a method in which to trap a man who has killed, and who will kill again, before captured finally within the breathless climax.  To capture this killer, John Moore utilises psychology, a science which in 1896, the year this novel transpires, was brand new, untried, and popularly maligned.  To help him along in this is Laszlo Kreizler, the Alienist, a practitioner of psychology during a time when the mind remained the domain of myth, misunderstanding, and the property of a Higher Power.  Battling corruption and ignorance, John Moore, under Kreizler's tutelage, rallies an investigation that plows new ground in crime fighting history.  These men are splendid and admirably portrayed, however, I admired especially the female liason, if simply for the fact that Mr Carr included an intelligent, independent woman character within a late 19th-century setting, a time almost universally unkind toward women, wherein they were relegated to the lower ranks, and regrettably dismissed to forgettable subservient roles.	2004-06-21
