US	17899762	R2PLTQ530CEAD5	0439443849	193892373	Green Angel	Books	4	3	3	N	N	The guilt of a survivor	GREEN ANGEL by Alice Hoffman is a beautiful tale - a long poem, really - teeming with lyrical prose that is reminiscent of Francesca Lee Block's books.  At a mere 120 pages, it doesn't seem to last long enough.<br />Green was once a calm, serene, and quiet young girl.  One day, after her family goes off to sell produce for profit without letting her tag along, Green is angered.  But her anger changes to sorrow when she finds they won't be coming home.  A catastrophic conflagration has swept the earth, taking lives.  It leaves behind black ash, making the world a dark and ominous place in which the daily task of living is a challenge.  Now Green, filled with guilt, must be self-sufficient, despite the fact that, at the very same time, she must recover from her loss and her guilt that refuses to subside.<br />I felt Hoffman's poetic tale to be a downer - it's not once sugary sweet or overly heartwarming, sappy, or happy.  Green changes to Ash, as does her personality.  She dons black clothing adorned with thorns.  Drawings scrawled in black ink cover her arms and legs.  The pain of the thorns pricking her flesh does not faze her, nor does the remainder of the adolescent population, happy on their parents' liquor and dancing all night.<br />Readers suffer with Green as she, a believable protagonist, picks up the pieces of her life in a courageous effort to move on.  Her story is told poetically, beautifully, and eloquently, therefore flowing naturally.  Despite being short page-wise, it isn't an easy read.  Ages 12 and up recommended.	2004-07-19
US	17899762	R39QZAGZIKVAEU	0763621552	27366794	Vegan Virgin Valentine	Books	4	5	6	N	N	"VEGAN VIRGIN VALENTINE" learns to let loose and live	VEGAN VIRGIN VALENTINE.  Yes, Mara Valentine is a high school senior who is a strict vegan, off animal meat and animal byproducts.  Yes, she is a virgin - her sexual experience with guys is oh-so limited.  And her last name is Valentine.  She is the bitter ex-girlfriend of Travis Hart.  When it comes to her rightful place as class valedictorian, she plans on kicking Travis' salutorian butt out the door to Yale, which is where she applied (and received acceptance!!!) early action.  She has type A blood, receives only A's in school, and wears an A-cup bra.<br />Vivienne Vail Valentine.  She is slutty, pot and cigarette-smoking, and merely sixteen.  She is also Mara's niece, despite the itsy-bitsy age gap.  Vivienne, who refuses to answer to anything but V, is the daughter of Aimee, Mara's 35 year-old loser sister who can't make up her mind when it comes to a job, a man, a house, or a sex partner.  From what Mara can see, V is heading down Aimee's very same path of loserdom.  Carefully outlined plans for her last days spent in the boring old town of Brockport certainly did not include V in the equation.  She is convinced she, the second birth, took place solely due to the fact that her 'rents felt the need to compensate for Aimee, the college dropout.<br />As VEGAN VIRGIN VALENTINE progressed, I found myself admiring Mara - which is more than I can say for most story protagonists.  Her transformation never strains credibility.  She doesn't let loose and veer wildly out of control off the usual path of a goody two-shoes - she merely starts making decisions for what she believes are her best interests.  This means no summer school at Johns Hopkins.  It means pursuing a relationship with sexy twenty two year-old James, the owner and boss of the coffeeshop where Mara works.  Alas, pursuing the relationship also means keeping it under wraps, for coworker and friend Claudia has been lusting after James for ages, and Mara knows it.<br />Mara also knows she deserves to be happy and the new Mara is even more aware of this.  Quite frankly, the new Mara, who tosses veganism in favor of grilled cheese sandwiches, is much more likeable.  She's ready to face the world - and Yale - head-on.<br />V also undergoes a sort of tranformation, though it may not be as drastic.  A lead role in the school play, encouragement from a doting aunt and uncle, plus SAT prep courses are setting her on the right path.  Despite the fact that her actions seem extreme (including fooling around with Travis Hart on her first day, in a shower stall), she ups the status quo in Mara's life and gives her a bit of her own brazen courage.  <br />Mackler takes a realistic route in the pairing of these two related characters.  Their relationship isn't a sugarcoated, opposites attract sort of bond.  They live together, learn together, and come to eventually respect one another.  The change of aversion to being able to get along is gradual, not rushed.<br />Mackler's third novel, debut to THE EARTH, MY BUTT, AND OTHER BIG ROUND THINGS, is a treat for the Young Adult audience.  Protagonist Mara Valentine is a stretch from prior heroine/anti-heroines Sammie Davis and Virginia Shreves, yet all stories take place in a real world where nothing is perfect and problems do arise.  Nor are they ever solved in the blink of an eye.  Girls may see themselves in Mara, even in V.  Girls may see themselves in their worlds as well.  <br />The fact that Mackler has managed to write all three of her novels with such voice is nothing short of remarkable.	2004-07-19
US	17899762	R22Q9HU7WL7U4U	0375763392	797363966	Complete Book of Colleges, 2004 Edition (College Admissions Guides)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Helpful, informative, worthwhile	Being that I'm just getting psyched about choosing colleges, I haven't really read any other guides yet, so I didn't have any to compare this one to.  However, since I want to go to a good school, (Vassar, NYU, Vanderbilt, Drexel, Emory, UCLA, this list goes on...) I thought that this would help me select more options to add to my list, as well as help me to rule out options that aren't for me.<br />On a helpful factor, I'd rate this book an 8.  Each college blurb contains insight on activities, admissions, tuition and financial aid, the school's phone number, website, and what they look for in prospective students, as well as the school's enrollment, which is always good to know.  Little symbols, which can be explained by a key, tell readers (and future students) in what type of environment the school is located, meaning the country (ex. Dartmouth, Cornell), urban (U Penn, NYU, Columbia), and suburban (Emory, Northwestern).  Dollar signs range from 1 to 3, 1 meaning less than 10,000, 2 representing 10,000 to 15,000, and 3 saying over 15,000 (::sigh::).<br />A total of 1,669 colleges are reviewed.  You've got your hard-to-get-into liberal arts schools.  You've got the oh-so-competitive Ivy League schools.  You've got your state schools.  And, to my surprise, there were even a few community colleges.<br />It was worth every penny of my money. However, much of it seems to be in fine print.  My friend who wears glasses had difficulty seeing some of it.  But I've got 20/20 vision and could see basically all of it just fine.  Also, it's heavy.  What do you expect with 1400+ pages?  It's heavy and floppy.  The company designed this guide with the cheaper type of paper, yet if they tried for the more expensive kind, this book would probably weigh 40 pounds.<br />BUY IT, PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS!  Or preorder the 2005 edition, which you can do right now.  Information is much more up to date that way, and you especially need to be correctly informed tuition/financial aid-wise.	2004-07-16
US	17899762	R2G4EIFN3IJ734	0698119177	43564381	Squashed	Books	4	1	1	N	N	She's got faith in Max, yet none in herself	Joan Bauer's SQUASHED is a first novel, and yet it doesn't at all read like one.  Protagonist Ellie Morgan is fumbling with her confidence and Bauer apparently seems to realize this is an unfortunate thing that many of today's teen girls go through and must overcome.  In fact, Ellie is insecure about basically every single option about herself - except for Max.  Max is a different story entirely.<br />Meet Max, perhaps the future champ of the pumpkin contest.  Ellie likes growing vegetables and likes cooking - in a way, the two go hand and hand.  Ellie is a wonderful cook and family knows it.  Cooking reminds Ellie of her deceased mother, who died when she was younger.  Still, the memories live on and give Ellie the strength she needs.<br />Back to Max...<br />Ellie is the mother of Max - she treats him like a newborn baby, nuturing him daily and chasing off the crows that land on his stem.  Now, if only Ellie could drop 20 pounds, while simultaneously, Max put on 200.  If Ellie was lighter, she resolutely believes, she'd have the courage to approach Wes, a new hottie at school.  And if Max gained 200 pounds, he'd be a shoe-in for the pumpkin contest victory!  Cyril, winner of many previous competitions, proves that with his own pumpkin, 46 days prior to the contest, will be a difficult entry to beat.  Upon seeing Cyril's pumpkin, Ellie brushes him off with a laugh.<br />\\"Is that what you call a pumpkin?\\" she laughs.  Inside, she's nervous, but on the outside, she's perfectly able to play it cool in the presence of nerdy yet all too arrogant Cyril.<br />Will she be able to work against the unpredictable and unfavorable weather that's threatening her baby?  Will her father finally learn to appreciate her love for veggie growing?  Will Ellie drop her weight and muster up her bravado to get with Wes?  Will Max demolish Cyril's entry in the town's competition for the very first time?<br />Read and see. :)<br />SQUASHED is a very nice first effort and worth a read.  Bauer tells a story of a protagonist who will make many rejoice, for she is much like them.  SQUASHED is, for the most part, a seemingly coming-of-age novel, yet it is laced with wry wit and raw humor at the very same time.  Ellie is a girl who is insecure and unbeknownst to her honestly valuable and significant worth.  She needs to realize she has the sass, potential, and heart of a truly wonderful 16 year-old girl.  And that, quite frankly, is far better than any contest win.	2004-07-14
US	17899762	R24HTVYU2RFAOT	0451161343	137038717	Thinner (Signet)	Books	2	9	10	N	N	"THINNER" isn't always better	Stephen King, writing as Richard Bachman, may have released this novel under a pseudonym for good reason.  While King's work is never terrible, THINNER certainly isn't his best.  Nonetheless, it is worth a read - but only for a true King fan.  I don't think I'm a loyal King fan yet, but with works like THE STAND and PET SEMATARY, I think I am well on my way.<br />THINNER is about an overweight lawyer named William Halleck.  Despite the fact his doctor has warned him he's nearing heart attack territory, other aspects of life are better.  He's got a good job and earns a living that is more than adaquete.  He has a wonderful wife and despite the fact he's a big guy, the two of them have an active sex life.  Billy also has a 14 year-old daughter named Linda with whom he is quite close.  Besides the weight issue, life is just peachy for Billy Halleck.<br />Until the gypsy's curse.  He accidentally hits and kills the 75 year-old gypsy daughter and her family, including her 106 year-old father, yearn for revenge.  So now, Billy is losing weight at a drastically alarming rate of about 9 or more pounds a week.  He's being erased off the face of the earth, pound by pound.  If he enlists the help of friend and Three Brothers restaurant owner Ginelli, will the livid, vengeance-seeking gyspsies surrender and remove their curse?  Or will Billy eventually waste away to nothing but skin and bones?<br />Eh.  I read on and found out.  But if I hadn't, the suspense wouldn't have killed me, if you get the gist of what I'm saying.<br />\\"THINNER\\" is not as remarkable as other reads by King - and not nearly as memorable.  Usually, his novels boast well-developed characters and an exhilarating plot filled with twists and turns.  With the exception of the ending, I found this book to be more predictable than his others.<br />Whatever.  You can't expect the man to churn out continuous hit after hit, can you?	2004-07-13
US	17899762	R1Y5HIISJSNH5D	044970128X	102196233	Angel Face	Books	1	2	5	N	N	"ANGEL FACE"?  Putrid.	This has to be one of the worst books I have ever read in my entire 16 years.  I have never read anything by Norma Klein, either.  This was the ultimate worst first impression, if you get the gist of what I'm saying.  And if you don't?  I can explain why I didn't just not enjoy the book, but why I hated it - loathed it passionately.<br />Okay.  I ventured off to a senior citizens used bookstore in the quaint lil' town of Kennett Square, PA, which is where I discovered this piece of trash, yet it looked like a cheesy little 80's YA novel and since it cost a mere dollar, I decided I'd give it a whirl.<br />I always thought that all books deserve at least 1 star, as opposed to negatives or \\"0\\" because the author did put effort into the story, whether it be a little bit or their heart.  Judging by the previous reviewer, she didn't appreciate ANGEL FACE, either.  I think I despised it a bit more than she did.  This book is hardly even worthy of 1 star.  I've never said that before, so you know it must really be awful.  And it is.<br />Jason is 15 and turns 16 in the book.  He is the epitome of horny, yet he's not slutty like some male teen horndogs I've read about.  What bothers me about him is the fact that he, 100 percent, lacks any type of motivational impetus, drive, or ambition whatsoever.  Frankly, that's just disappointing, especially when you consider today's youth.  Jason's sibs are bright and intelligent - some with effort, some with ease.  Yet we get the impression that Jason could be an A/B student if he wanted to, he just, as he so eloquently puts it, \\"doesn't give a damn.\\"<br />How depressing.<br />Jason starts a relationship with Vickie and it is as bland and boring as any teen relationship could be.  Vickie is 15 and skipped a grade.  She's rather pretty but oh-so insecure and readers come to see this throughout the novel.<br />\\"I'm fat, I know it.\\"<BR>\\"Do I look okay? I've been doing a lot of tennis.\\"<br />Well, something to that effect.  Jason is the opposite of Vickie, with her burdening self-esteem woes.  He's the type of guy that thinks he's the greatest thing in the world, God's gift to women.  In reality, he's anything but.  In fact, he's your archetypal loser, one who'll end up in community college, if luck prevails.  Jason doesn't want to go to college.  His sister, Andy, is at Princeton, full scholarship.  His brother, Tyler, with whom he doesn't get along, ends up at Berkley.  But Jason? No college.  He wants to be a rebel, yay!!!<br />::eye roll::<br />The relationship between Vickie and Jason irked me.  They never bonded through meaningful conversation.  They didn't have anything in common.  She has motivations and a seemingly okay future.  She's bright.  So why did she pick Jason?<br />Um, she's insecure.<br />And Jason only wanted sex.  They don't go all the way, though they do come close.  It would be cool if I knew Jason's intentions beforehand, but the back cover synopsis acted as if the two teens had a nice, healthy lil' relationship and felt good around each other.  The only thing that feels good around Vickie, really, is Jason's crotch.<br />Jason was worried about his mother's reaction to his relationship with Vickie, since a parental divorce ain't the best time to \\"fall in love.\\"  Ha, don't worry - this so isn't it.<br />Jason's mother was the only character I could tolerate - she mildly reminded me of my own mother, who's a lot more similar to an older sister.  But she dies.  Sorry to spoil that for you.  I'm also sorry to say that, although Jason and his mother seem to get along very well before the car accident, he isn't that fazed by her death.  Go figure.<br />The rest of the characters are cardboard and one-dimensional.  Take Erin, Jason's sister.  Klein illustrates her as a stranger in the household through Jason's blurry perception, not as a sibling.  He doesn't even KNOW this girl that he's lived with for his entire life.  Again, go figure.<br />Erm. This makes me a tad uneasy when itcomes to giving another Klein novel a try.  I think I shall pass on that.	2004-07-13
US	17899762	R1AI1BMRZ42ND0	0060938455	515614189	Fast Food Nation: The Dark Side of the All-American Meal	Books	4	5	5	N	N	"You still want fries with that?"	Eric Schlosser has revived the muckraking skills, reminiscent of Upton Sinclair and his writing, THE JUNGLE, of the early 1900s.  Schlosser's effort, FAST FOOD NATION, is an eye-opening read that will shock and disgust you, much like a circus freak show.<br />Those who enjoyed the documentary SUPER SIZE ME will much enjoy this.  Director Morgan Spurlock and author Schlosser are muckrakers of the golden arch empire, McDonald's - however, Schlosser's research and discoveries uncovered really go beyond McDonald's food - it speaks horrific volumes of the meatpacking industry: how the meat is contaminated with Lord knows what, ranging from bacterias to vomit and feces, how the workers continue to do their jobs in an incredibly unsafe environment.  Already, terrible accidents have occurred.  McDonald's must get its goods from these meat plants - that it does.  But at what costs?  The meat doesn't just affect your digestive system - or those who eat it.  It frightens me that hard-working people sacrifice everything just so some human, often on a spur of the moment decision, can eat a low-quality burger.  Workers constantly must ensure they don't slip and fall as they wade, ankle deep, through cow blood on the concrete factory floors.  They must also be careful of the skinned cow carcasses dangling from the ceiling - they are heavy and can whack them from behind, sending them careening across the room.  Metal machinery can rip off various limbs.  Lose a hand?  \\"Use the other!\\" supervisors will tell their workers.<br />Considering the golden arches and company, fat and calorie content isn't the biggest problem like I thought it was.<br />I've read a few reviewers stating that they'll never eat fast food again.  Ha.  Me neither.  Towards my 16th summer, I became a McDonald's addict.  I began devouring the garbage 3 or more times a week.  Yeah, I knew it was fat and calorie laden.  But did I care?  No. Why?  I was going to be going to a weightloss camp that summer where peoplenot only lost weight, they lost BIG.  So I figured I'd take advantage of all burger and fry opportunities possible, particularly the quick and convenient ones.  While I was at camp, everyone was told that all foods were fine in moderation, blahdiddyblahblah, EXCEPT fast food.  I figured I'd make it a once a month thing at home where I'd be the one controlling what I ate.<br />Not only is there vomit, hair, feces, and other things you sure as hell don't want in your burger - there's BACTERIA breeding in it.  Think it's all killed by hot grills?  Nope.  Told you fat and cals aren't the main issue!  There's liver damage.  Digestive damage, courtesy of Ecoli!  DEATH!!!!<br />Do I sound preachy?  I apologize.  And I am so unlike Schlosser, who does not preach at all.  He simply tells it like it is, which is what supreme muckrakers do. Schlosser is a supreme muckraker, no doubt.	2004-07-04
US	17899762	RDQYCW8UND2VQ	0060957247	569099397	Bobbi Brown Teenage Beauty: Everything You Need to Look Pretty, Natural, Sexy and Awesome	Books	4	4	4	N	N	"PRETTY...AWESOME"	Professional makeup artist Bobbi Brown has her own line of cosmetics available at fine department stores, as many girls may know.  Here, she has brought forth a book not completely about eyes, lips, cheeks, and nails, like some girls might think.  BOBBI BROWN TEENAGE BEAUTY... also stresses physical and mental health, as well as self-confidence.  It is also a reference book for various makeup looks, some natural and subtle, others less tame and featuring the more vibrant shades of the rainbow.<br />Some of these looks are more on the wild side.  Nonetheless, some girls my age may enjoy them.  Other looks seem as if they'd require a real artist, as in it would be a difficult task to complete in the comfort of your own home bathroom, even if you had all the supplies it called for.  I still enjoyed seeing clear glossed lips AND neon blue-lined eyes.<br />My favorite line in the book is spoken by Bobbi herself.  She says something along the lines of, \\"You should learn to accept yourself no matter what, or you can never be happy over any personal gains you make.\\"  That statement couldn't be closer to the truth.  Some may roll their eyes and think, \\"Everyone knows that!\\"  But if so, why are the majority of teenage girls lacking confidence?  I was also quite appreciative of how Brown addresses different body figures, saying that if you eat healthy and excercise regularly, you will fall into your normal body shape.  So true!  Lately, our society has wised up and is beginning to stress this positive point more and more on a daily basis.<br />Visually, this book is stunning.  Some pictures are quick snapshots.  Others were put together to look more immaculate: background, possible airbrushing, perfect angles, etc.  The models aren't always merely those chosen for the profession - Bobbi has made over real teens, too - regular girls with regular flaws.<br />Great holiday gift.  It also serves as a nice reference.  Although it is primarily for teen girls, I think adults may benefit as well.	2004-06-28
US	17899762	RI5DCYSXCU24D	037582233X	411811908	Stargirl	Books	3	2	2	N	N	An unexpected Spinelli effort	STARGIRL is the story of an unusual outcast who brings peer resentment on herself by being the epitome of a nonconformist.  Mica High isn't a \\"hotbed for nonconformity\\" so, as expected, her peers deem her strange.  She dons kimonos and prarie ensembles.  She laughs when there are no jokes and dances when there is no music.  Her name is Stargirl.  Stargirl Caraway.  She could be an alien, a product of homeschooling, or the daughter of circus acrobats.  Those are just a few of the theories of her peers.  <br />Because when people don't know, they talk.  When they don't know, they make up information of their own and pass it down the halls of typical high school.<br />And Leo Borlock is fascinated by her, which earns him the nickname of \\"Starboy.\\"  The story is narrated through his eyes.  In typical Spinelli fashion, this is an ideal way to go about a YA novel.  We come to understand his blossoming feelings for this nonconformist.  Soon, everyone at Mica is drawn to her, just like he is.  Her bright laughter is contagious and people marvel over her peer praise and undeniable charm.  Stargirl becomes increasingly popular, even taking a spot on Mica's cheerleading squad.<br />But why does she cheer for the opposing team?  Why does she run to help their injured athletes?  Why does she attend the funerals of people she doesn't even know?  Stagirl had been embraced for her differences - now the Mica population is reverting to their original state of resentment and misunderstanding of Stargirl.  Popularity is a fragile, absurd thing.<br />Stargirl is ethereal and superhero-esque, extraordinarily confident and oblivious to how Mica students constantly shun her.  Her beauty lies in how generous and loving she is, how she opens her heart to the world, despite the fact that her love is not always reciprocated.  Readers come to wonder if a relationship between Leo and Stargirl will blossom more than it has, or quickly crumble.  Leo must choose between his high school friends or Stargirl but he doesn't want to have to pick one commitment out of the former and latter.  Either way, he cannot imagine his life empty of either choice.<br />This Spinelli novel was quite a shock, coming from the man who authored one of my favorite comedic coming-of-age books, CRASH.  I read this when I was 14 and would recommend it for the 10-14 crowd but would also advise them not to expect doses of laughter, being this is a far cry from CRASH and THERE'S A HAIR IN MY TOOTHBRUSH.  It wasn't humorous yet never tried to be.  It had quite a few slow-moving pieces in the plot, making it somewhat tedious.  Overall, however, it was a rather good effort for Spinelli, though I do prefer his humor, a la CRASH...	2004-06-28
US	17899762	RTX9MH5R7SX0W	0451169530	825352881	The Stand: Expanded Edition: For the First Time Complete and Uncut (Signet)	Books	4	11	13	N	N	&quot;STANDS&quot; alone when compared to the movie	The end of the world.  Who hasn't thought about it?  And how can you forget those crazy Y2K fanatics who all firmly believed the Apocolypse was arriving on our planet Earth?  They all stocked up on canned goods and urged the rest of the world to do the same.<br />King's Apocolypse depiction is a bit different here.  No one saw it coming, not even the greatest so-called psychics.  The world's population is not wiped out merely by explosions - nor does everyone die simultaneously.  A deadly virus has escaped a factory and kills, once through, over 99 percent of Earth's people, over a couple of months.  Victims are found in horriffic states: bloated necks, black skin, maggots feasting on their remnants and crawling out of their noses and ears and eyes.<br />THE STAND is not for the faint of heart.<br />I read the oh-so lengthy uncut version.  Because of how long this novel is, King can afford to introduce many different characters.  Some novels have attempted to do this.  From my observations, their efforts usually fail because their book is too short to allow audiences to get to know and appreciate a plethora of characters.  My favorite character was Nick Andros.  Oddly enough, he was deaf and mute.  But he's worked his whole life to overcome these hardships and shows he is very wise and witty, to an extent.  Before the beginning of the Apocolypse, he was taking college courses.  He can read lips just as well as Hellen Keller ever could, and once people realize his disabilities, he talks to them by means of pen and paper or pantomiming.<br />True, people will either love or hate THE STAND, King fan or not, I believe.  My favorite novel of his will always be CARRIE, and this is a far cry from the traumatized teen and her world.  It is also very different from PET SEMATARY, the second effort of his that I read.  THE STAND is beautiful, at times, terrifying, and has a quality that distinguishes it from all other horror novels.<br />THE STAND's suspense begins practicallyfrom the first chapter and draws on and on.  Whenever I met a new character, I wondered if they'd make it to the end of the book.  This clearing out of people, practically like deforesting, is for the purposes of a Good vs. Evil confrontation.<br />In 1978, as fans of THE STAND may well know, renowned science fiction author Spider Robinson encouraged that people not read THE STAND.  Unarguably, however, this book cannot be ignored.  It became so popular that it was republished, unedited, in 1990.  I'm pleased I got to read the unedited version, despite the fact that some say this isn't advisable.  Because I haven't read the edited version, I'm not quite sure how to respond to this.  But I very much enjoyed this version and I've got no difficulty understanding why many call this one of the greatest horror novels of recent years.<br />Different, it is.  But only in the best way possible. :)	2004-06-28
US	17899762	R2BDA3N1ETGZ3Z	0689826370	73415967	Including Alice	Books	3	7	7	N	N	Nice Alice addition	Alice McKinely, who I've grown to love from book one just like a gal pal, is going through various changes.  Some, she thinks, are for the best.  Others, she believes, are for the worst.  She also sees that these changes she's anticipated, the good ones - like Dad and Sylvia's wedding - also have their downside.<br />But how can Lester's moving out be anything positive?  He wants his own apartment and has no reason not to leave home - Alice's begging for him to stay evidently won't suffice here - he's a grown man and it's time for him to stop mooching off Mr. McKinely.  Alice can't imagine home without Lester in it.  And as I've read the series, growing fonder and fonder with each book, I've gotten to know and love Lester's endearing quirks.  His non-morning personality.  His ways of teasing his baby sister.  His \\"Ye gads!!!\\"<br />Alice can imagine the beautiful Sylvia Summers as her mama, despite the fact that she might not call her such.  After all, she has been motherless since the age of 5.  But Sylvia's arrival in the McKinely household is proving harder than it once seemed.  Alice is no longer the only woman in the house - now Mr. McKinely pays more attention to his new bride than his own daughter.  Having Sylvia in the house makes Alice feel the urge to be super-careful about petty things.  It also makes her often feel oh-so awkward.  Could Sylvia's moving in be a mistake?<br />On a different note, will things between Patrick and Alice heat up again, being he's through with Penny?  They were acting awfully cozy at the wedding reception.  Or will they remain mere friends?  Either way, it's been clarified that Alice is no longer hurting over Patrick's dumping her.  Or is she?  Could it be why she's acting so cruelly to Penny, as revenge for the rather bitter breakup?  She's the only lunch table member who didn't get a wedding invite, that's for sure.<br />Naylor's umpteenth venture into Alice's realistic world of friends, family, and hardships will have you drawn in till the end, just like all the other books in the series, though it has quite a bit less luster.  Still, putting that aside, it is rather enjoyable.  Perhaps if I didn't have the previous series efforts to compare it to, it wouldn't seem as bland.<br />Am I getting too old for Alice? Absolutely.	2004-06-27
US	17899762	R2MFP9OE3K1900	0689859651	648939025	Simply Alice	Books	3	1	2	N	N	"SIMPLY" a treat for Alice fans	Alice McKinely's umpteenth installment begins on the utmost embarassing note that I refuse to spoil for you in my review.  <br />However, I will say this much: after the split between Alice and Patrick, after the plethora of tears and loss of confidence, after heavy friendship support, Alice is going to be okay.  She's spending time with herself now, doing things for strictly herself.  She's becoming immersed in high school extracurriculars and her \\"me time\\" is becoming just that, perhaps a bit too much so.  Alice's very best friends, Pamela and Elizabeth, have seen Alice at her worst.  They've been there for her, through thick and thin, through good times and bad times.  Now, they feel like less important parts of her life.  Because Alice's \\"me time\\" is spoiling their together time, and they aren't all too pleased about it.  Alice senses they are all growing apart.  Her abundance of activities is opening new doors and she finds herself making new friends.  Like Faith, who has a penchant for black and seems unable to leave her arrogant and abusive boyfriend.  Like Molly, with deep blue eyes and short, choppy hair.  Both backstage crew and the school newspaper are proving to be fun and exciting.  But are they worth the loss of Alice's two very best friends?  Must she settle for that ultimatum?  Let's hope not.  The friendship troubles started out with Alice missing trips to the mall but when Alice forgot about their appointment at the pizza parlor, that fueled the fire.  Thanks to her, according to Elizabeth, because she didn't show, they didn't get their discount.  Alice knows in her heart that their straying from her is normal, yet it's all too sad just the same.  Naylor's peek into Alice's life is enjoyable and as real as its predecessors.  You'll understand Alice's hurt over her seemingly estranged friends.  \\"All it makes me want to do is cry,\\" Alice laments.<br />I find that I'm getting a bit too mature for Alice - ALICE ALONE was the last Alice novel I read that scored at the top of my list.  Perhaps this is merely because of the more advanced literature I've been exposed to.  But Alice and her realistic, if ever-so slightly sugarcoated teen world will always ring true and hold a special place in my heart.	2004-06-27
US	17899762	R2BGESNLB741G	0451132378	639916239	Pet Sematary	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Thou shall not intervene with fate	Stephen King, bestselling author of all time (just ask the Guiness Book of World Records), has brought forth another creepy novel.  If I could sum up what King is trying to tell his audience, I could do it in few words.<br />Don't intervene with fate.<br />Louis Creed's interventions with fate basically screw him over in a major way (more on that later).  He's a doctor, so you're thinking, &quot;Great salary.&quot;  He's got a gorgeous wife and two children, a young girl and a baby boy.  And he's decided that Bangor, Maine, definitely beats the city of Chicago, so he and his family move on out into a more rural and placid type environment.  The Bangor local is also no problem when it comes to work - he shall take a job working at the medical university (FYI: King now resides in Bangor with his wife, Tabitha, and his children).<br />When the Creeds first move to Maine, all seems well.  Louis meets Jud Crandall, an elderly 80-something gentleman with a heart of gold.  Their relationship quickly evolves and the two men become very close.  Jud helps Louis grieve when his baby son is hit and killed by a truck on the road by their house.<br />Enter the &quot;pet sematary&quot; from which the novel's title is derived.  A group of children were not educated in the fundamentals of spelling, hence the errors.  They buried roadkill and various dead pets over what was once supposedly an Indian burial ground.<br />Grieving to the brink of insanity, Louis is willing to try and bring his baby boy back to life using the pet &quot;sematary.&quot;  After all, it worked for the family cat, who ended up roadkill prior to the death of Louis' son.  Despite the fact that one of his dead patients keeps appearing to him, telling him not to go through it, Louis is overcome with grief and refuses to listen to him.<br />A chain of deaths basically occurs.  We watch as a doctor, due to loss, gets pushed over the edge and actually does end up losing every bit of sanity he once had.  He keeps saying that his dead loved ones won't come back evil - that they cannot come back evil.  Bad experiences just don't teach him.  He's prone to making the same mistakes again and again all because his sanity is slipping away like sand through his fingers.<br />See where fate intervention comes in?  One death seemed to have lead to the next.  If Louis had let his son rest in peace rather than trying to bring him back to life, he would stayed out of a helluva lot of trouble.<br />King has skillfully woven a horrific masterpiece in which he pulls you from your own normal world and takes you into the world of Lou Creed.  No matter how meager a character role, all people are brought to life through excellent characterizational skills as well as dialogue authentically filled with voice and insight.  This book is spooky, simply put.  By the time you hit the back cover, you will feel like you know Lou Creed.<br />Highly recommended for psychologists and those who particularly enjoy the world of horror literature.	2004-06-24
US	17899762	R19EIIHNP5K4XP	0590474782	712857146	Twins	Books	1	5	9	N	N	Odd, only in the worst way possible	There are books that grab you for being peculiar and odd, hence Francesca Lia Block's continuously smooth-flowing lyrical threads that make up her books.  That is the whimsical kind of odd, the kind that can often be beatiful.<br />Then there is the type of odd that just makes you ask yourself, and the author, \\"What the f***?\\"<br />TWINS, I am sorry to say, falls into this category.  I read it a few years ago and reread it recently, thinking I might perhaps change my mind about its level of suckiness.  But no, my mindset and opinion of TWINS did not change.  It still sucks beyond sucking.  The world's best editor would see the task of mending and re-phrasing this story as an impossible one indeed.<br />I like Caroline B. Cooney's work.  In fact, TWENTY PAGEANTS LATER was one of the very first novels I read - I picked it up at age 6 or 7, I do believe - and I have enjoyed it since, just as I've enjoyed Janie who found out that yes, it was HER face on the milk carton.  So many of Cooney's YA genre novels totally grab you and pull you into worlds unexplored.  <br />TWINS is not one of these.  I only wish I had know this beforehand.<br />It's basically about two twin sisters named Madrigal and Mary Lee who seemingly have a close-knit relationship.  Mary Lee narrates the story and is extraordinarily naive.  She is angered that her parents wish to separate them - they believe the two girls direly need some time apart.  So Mary Lee is off to boarding school.<br />And I asked, \\"What kind of insane parents would do that?  A relative's house would perhaps be suitable, maybe.  Boarding school? Why?\\"<br />Mary Lee rarely hears from her twin but is anticipating her visit.  They meet on the slopes and Madrigal dies in an accident, only because they switched skiing outfits, everyone thinks Mary Lee has died.  So she decides to assume Madrigal's role, to live her twin's life.<br />Like I said: odd, only in the worst way possible.<br />Mary Lee, now Madrigal, goes home to her parents pretending to be her sister.  But since I've basically already spoiled the whole wonderful book for you anxious readers, I won't give away the deep, dark secret Mary Lee, now Madrigal, finds out about Madrigal. :-P<br />It all gets damn annoying.  And Cooney further pushes the annoyance factor with a bland plot, limp dialogue, and boring, one-dimensional characters bereft of life.<br />ENJOY!!!!!!!!!! :)	2004-06-24
US	17899762	R3NLBOOMQ7XEU7	0440431808	646438686	From the Mixed-Up Files of Mrs. Basil E. Frankweiler (Yearling Newbery)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A wonderful treat for wild imaginations	Claudia feels underappreciated in her suburban household - a thing all children have most likely felt during at least one time or another.  Here, Konigsburgs writes of these feelings with brutal honesty and frankness.  Because Claudia is not an only child, it almost seems as if to her, and to readers, that there isn't enough love and attention to go around.  Unjustly so, the poor girl frequently gets caught up in chore after chore while her siblings are off the hook.<br />So she will run away and teach them all a lesson in \\"Claudia appreciation.\\"  The Metropolitan Musuem of Art will become her grandiose and excitingly fantastic home away from home, so to speak.  And younger brother Jamie will accompany her, mainly because he has saved every single penny since birth and will have money, just what Claudia needs.  Yet to say she's using her younger bro merely for financial purposes would be unjust.  I believe Claudia truly wants and needs the companionship.<br />The highlight of their one-week vacation is a mysterious and ethereal statue of an angel, titled as such.  It is oh-so mysterious because everyone is unsure of the statue's creator.  Some believe it to be the renown Michelangelo - but it has yet to be confirmed and 12 year-old Claudia is incessantly in awe of thee angel's beauty.  She knows she cannot go home until she uncovers the secret of the statue and that will mean having to get in contact with a total stranger, Mrs. Basil E. Frankweiler, who is the statue's previous owner.  And if she refuses to help Claudia solve the mystery on her mind, she and Jamie may never get home.<br />FROM THE MIXED-UP FILES OF MRS. BASIL E. FRANKWEILER, first published in 1967, has been capturing the attention of children everywhere.  Konigsburg has skillfully woven a loveable masterpiece that seems magical, almost too wonderful to be realistic.  Yet it is.  Claudia feels what so many of society's  children today feel.  And like many children, she keeps her feelings to herselfand deals with pent up frustrations the only way she knows how, hence her escape to The Metropolitan.<br />I first read this novel when I was 9.  I found myself relating to feeling less love from seemingly uncaring parents, due to having a sister who had no responsibilities and extra TLC because of her young age.  I found myself envious of Claudia's grand escape to the musuem and I contemplated a night away from home spent at The Philadelphia Musuem of Art.  That, of course, never happened.  In retrospect, I realize how wild of an imagination I had.  My mind was constantly roaming.  Children today are just as creative - or they can be - which is why they'll much enjoy this book.  Despite now being seven years older, I still frequently pick it up off my bookshelf, worn and dog-eared, to read it again and again.	2004-06-24
US	17899762	R170WSNTT7AHKI	0064472574	553015843	Breathing Underwater	Books	4	3	3	N	N	The apple doesn't fall far from the tree	Nick Andreas is one of the few blessed members of his high school elite on Key Biscayne.  He is smart, rich, good-looking, and insanely popular.  Come the first day of sophomore year, he arrives in style, driving the brand new car he just received for his 16th birthday.  Almost immediately, he notices her, a beautiful blonde.  Caitlin Alyssa McCourt.  She's ethereal, almost delicate looking.  Her airy appearance separates her from the rest of the pretty girls.  She wears a slipdress and pearl earrings while the rest of them wear diamond studs and jeans.  <br />Immediately, Nick wants her.<br />\\"That's Caitlin McCourt.  She went to fat camp over the summer,\\" Nick's best friend since kindergarten, Tom, says.  Now, 35 pounds lighter, she's transformed into a different person.  At first shy and fearing rejection, Nick musters up his courage and asks her if she wants a ride home after school.  She accepts his invitation.<br />Their relationship blossoms in a matter of two months.  Nick loves Caitlin - or so he believes.  And Caitlin loves Nick.  Being a former fat girl, many insecurities still seem to be present in her - she fears Nick will leave her and doesn't believe she can find better.  Nick starts out loving, gentle, and protecting.  Then he turns angry, frustrated, and doubly insecure, as well as immensely overbearing and cruel.  The first time he slaps her, he woos her back with a gift and apologizes profusely.  All is forgiven.<br />It isn't that way the second time.  The second time, Nick goes too far.  He believes he is the only one who deserves power over Caitlin and when she defies him by singing in the school's talent show, things turn hideous, but perhaps even more so on Nick's part.  We watch as he loses every single high school friend he has.  We watch as anger management sessions open his eyes.  We watch as a wiser Caitlin McCourt is finally able to reject her first and former boyfriend.  Nick's crew, as well as the entire school, knows of Nick's ways,which is why they can barely stand to look at him.  Everyone sides with Caitlin.<br />But Nick has kept a dark secret from everyone EXCEPT Caitlin, including Tom, who, prior to Nick's incident involving Caitlin, thought he knew his best buddy inside and out.  Nick's father is just like him: good looks, brains, charm.  And an ugly, ugly temper that often turns violent.  Will Tom find out that while Caitlin was hurting, so was his so-called best friend?  Or will Nick be too embarrased to open his mouth?<br />Read and see.<br />Alex Flinn's first novel fits a cliche, yet strays from their use, thankfully.  She's written a story that is realistic and artfully depicts and pieces together the mind of an abuser.  At times, I found myself hating Nick Andreas with a passion.  Other times, I felt sorry for him.  Either way, the novel ends on a note neither completely happy nor a downer, and it manages to stay away from being overly sappy and sentimental throughout.  It flows nicely and, for a first effort, is quite well done.	2004-06-24
US	17899762	R3LBL195XDEPIS	0440220653	87075246	The Face on the Milk Carton	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Who am I?	This, in my honest opinion, is Caroline B. Cooney's best novel to date.  It received the most recognition out of all of her work and began the quartet of Janie books.<br />The plot, prior to my first reading of this in the 5th grade, was something I had never heard of before.  15 year-old Janie Johnson is living the life of an average high schooler.  She has a fiercely loyal best friend named Sarah Charlotte and a group of friends to eat lunch with.  More and more feelings are stirring within her for shaggy-haired Reeve, who is potential boyfriend material.  She has two loving parents who have loved her since birth.<br />Or so she thought.<br />One seemingly regular lunch period, Janie notices a picture of a random missing child on Sarah Charlotte's milk carton.  But the 3 year-old toddler in a polka dot-adorned dress isn't all so random after all.  That little girl, Jennie Spring, is her, Janie Johnson.  Memories of the very same dress arise.  Now, Janie is faced with two choices.  She can either try to uncover this harrowing mystery herself - are her parents really kidnappers?  Who are her real parents?  Or, she can confront the husband and wife she has been living with for as long as she can remember.  Well, almost as long as she can remember.  Janie chooses the latter over the former.  Either way, she must face the undeniable truth, as difficult as it may seem.<br />Cooney's novel about a teen girl amidst an identity crisis is fast-paced and will keep you guessing till the end.  Upon first read, I was disappointed that Janie did not get in contact with her biological family, the Springs.  But what I hadn't realized was that Janie's ordeal wasn't ending - in fact, it was just beginning.  Cooney's writing style was very enjoyable - even these seemingly unbelievable events seemed believable and frank because of the fashion in which she writes, which includes amazing insight into Janie's mind.  The YA crowd is in for a treat!	2004-06-24
US	17899762	R1Q219IX0DLB4J	0142300837	793601491	Life Is Funny	Books	1	12	22	N	N	Dully disappointing debut	E. R. Frank, author of LIFE IS FUNNY, knows kids.  She is a real-life social worker who currently resides in Brooklyn, New York.  So if Frank knows kids, does it mean she knows how to write, how to breathe a joie di vivre into a YA novel?<br />Heck, no.<br />Told through the voices of 11 New York children, all ranging in age, Frank clumsily manages to take up 263 pages of a so-called book, filling it with lifeless, limp dialogue, mostly bland characters, and unpoetic language that resists smooth flow all throughout the novel.  Concisely put, this book is bad.<br />Very, very bad.<br />It's poorly written.  The synopsis intrigued me and compelled me to shell over $8.00 of hard-earned cash.  I adore novels of today's YA genre that ring true with authentic voice.  Take Megan McCafferty's Jessica Lynn Darling of SLOPPY FIRSTS and SECOND HELPINGS.  Take Deb Caletti's Jordan MacKenzie of THE QUEEN OF EVERYTHING.  Those voices ring frankly and honestly.  Yes, I do understand the fact that these New York kids have bigger battles to face than mere high school angst and traumas.<br />Monique is pregnant at 16.  Her sister, Molly, would not be in NYU if it weren't for her full scholarship - the family is flat broke.  Ebony cuts herself and introduces the idea to her white friend, Grace, who has an alcoholic mother.  Eric is an angry weed-smoking teen who is very protective of his little brother, Mickey.  They don't see their mother because she's in a drug rehab program because of her crack addiction.<br />See?  All of these kids are screwy.  I understand that Frank wanted to portray the rough lifestyles some of these kids live.  Whether her own kids inspired her, I am unsure.  I do know that this light read is teeming - unpleasantly overflowing - with too many problems.  The rough language did not irk me in the slightest - poor sentence structure did.  I know some kids have hard lives.  I know I am fortunate and blessed to live the life I live.  But Frank goes overboard here.As a result, this novel is not for the faint of heart.  I think Frank wanted to merely inform her audience, not shock them.  Either way, I was curiously unmoved.<br />Molly appears to be the most normal out of the bunch.  When she speaks, her words actually make sense.  This is not the case with overbearing and incessantly angry Eric.  (Pg. 132) \\"I eats, I sleeps, I s***s.  I goes to school.  I watch TV.  I draws.  I practice my English and maths.  I waits for finding Mickey. I not talking to Ms. Hudson. I goes after school, but I not talking to her. She don't seem like she notice.\\"  We know he has yet to firmly grasp proper English.  We know he cares for his brother, Mickey.  We know he's angry 99.9% of the time.  Big whoop. <br />That's the thing.  When you try to cram the stories of 11 kids' lives into a light 263 pages read, chances are, you'll fail at the task.  We never get to know any of these kids all that well.  The story simply jumps from person to person, place to place, harrowing occurrance to occurrance.  And on the way, I'm sorry to say, it loses mostly all of its heart, soul, and flow.<br />It's the worst YA novel I have read in ages.	2004-06-21
US	17899762	R2KWMG34MM9674	0446310786	994527755	To Kill a Mockingbird	Books	5	5	6	N	N	An enlightening and beautifully narrated classic	TO KILL A MOCKINGBIRD explores the injustice of racism in the small, sleepy town of Maycomb, Alabama.  Lee's novel is narrated through the eyes of 8 year-old wise-beyond-her-years Scout Finch, a keen and extraordinarily observant child.<br />The horizons of TO KILL... don't end at the explorations and explanations of racism in the South.  Other themes include growing up and emotions involved, how people avoid what they do not understand, and friendships - how they evolve and blossom.  One of Scout's close friends is dimunitive Dill, a \\"Beautiful Child\\" contest winner (a.k.a. Charles Baker Harris) who visits Maycomb to stay with his aunt over the summers.  Compelled by mere curiosity, together, he and Scout plot to lure hermit and town bogeyman Boo Radley out into the open.  Peculiar myths and legends surround his very existence, courtesy of the gossip mongers of Maycomb.<br />Lee demonstrates the true ugliness of racism. Racism, we see, is what causes a small Southern town to do a complete turn around.  Scout, with the innocent heart of a child, balances out the misunderstandings.  Atticus Finch, Scout's father, who is always known as \\"Atticus,\\" is chosen to represent a black man who supposedly raped Mayella Ewell, a white farmer's daughter.  This is truly what opens the reader's eyes to the evils of the town.  Despite this, Scout Finch still adamantly believes that people are essentially good overall, \\"once you get to see them.\\"  Obviously, this isn't all true - Scout is mind-blowingly bright yet still exhibits realistic childlike qualities, her naivete being one of them.<br />Atticus can truly be regarded for his extreme heroism.  Despite a cruel and uncaring town, he stood up for what he believed in, what he knew in his heart was right.  He's possesses great wisdom, a heart of gold, great understanding, and considerable kindness.  He treats his children, Jem and Scout, like they are mature adults.  This is probably one of the main reasons why Scout is so keenly and constantly aware of her surroundings, as well as a reason for her innate intellect.  <br />One of the best plot twists in TO KILL... involves a newfound hero that neither Jem and Scout, nor the reader, could have ever predicted would be so brazen and courageous.  Boo Radley is one of the novel's pivotal characters, yet he doesn't appear all that much in the story.  When Scout and company first discuss him and his myths, they speak of him as if he's some kind of hideous monster.  In reality, he is as kind and caring as Atticus and has just as much hero potential, which finally rises to the surface towards the end of the novel for the reader (and Harper's characters) to see.<br />TO KILL A MOCKINGBIRD is laced with humor, yet it finds a comfortable balance between being both comedic and serious in the subject matter Harper chose to tackle.  It also manages to be sentimental and heartbreaking, yet never even comes close to being borderline mushy and overly sappy.  It's an inspirational tale regarded by generation after generation as a classic - a tale of respect for all human life in a society in which incessant misunderstandings are present within its people.  Look at the world we live in today.  Consider the mindset of various individuals and groups.  I ask you, what person can't relate to this enlightening, eye-opening book?	2004-06-21
US	17899762	R3SLSCE9ZFZYK5	0743436849	388882331	The Queen of Everything	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Loudest teenage voice I've heard since Jessica Darling	Deb Caletti's debut introduces protagonist Jordan MacKenzie, a typical high school junior girl with a seemingly typical high school junior's life.  Through wonderful teenage narration sparkling with authentic voice, we come to know Jordan and come to see how the man she once knew as her father turned crazy, all in the name of so-called love.  <br />Yes, crazy.  All over Gayle D'Angelo, a married woman.<br />The narration and voice make up for a semi-slow moving story, though it mostly builds up plot and suspense-wise, keeping you on the edge of your seat. All characters are easy to like, with the exception of Jordan's new boyfriend, Kale, who just wants to get in Jordan's pants and kills bunnies with a shotgun for fun.  We at first see her as rather self-confident and witty but as the story progresses, her confidence rises and plummets according to the situations she faces.  I found her revenge on her \\"boyfriend,\\" Kale, to be quite amusing.  Kale is hell-bent on getting Jordan's attention and she instantly regrets sleeping with him, especially when he's got his tongue down some other girl's throat 10 minutes later.  After crazy Mr. MacKenzie is taken to the sheriff's, Jordan uses Kale for a ride.  She needs to get away from her home and her family.  Come morning at a skeezy motel, Kale and Jordan genuinely have become the modern-day Bonnie and Clyde.  Kale has stolen some poor soul's car and Jordan isn't about to let him get away with it, especially after what he's put her through.  So she alerts a gas station man and takes off running, saying to him she refuses to ride in the stolen car any longer.  That's just one of the humorous incidents - the characters are amusing as well.  <br />Take Claire, Jordan's hippie mother who unabashedly breast feeds Jordan's baby half-brother in public.  And Melissa, Jordan's very best friend, who at first thinks Kale, neighborhoodwide-known as a thug, is good for Jordan.  Prior, Jordan's experience had been limited to two unmemorable boyfriends.<br />Mr. MacKenzie's craziness over his affair with beautiful southerner Gayle takes a turn for the absolute worst, and I never even saw it coming!  We slowly see Jordan and Mr. MacKenzie's father-daughter relationship deteroriating all thanks to the toll of lust, love, or infatuation - whatever has caused Mr. MacKenzie to switch gears and become a total stranger who Jordan really doesn't even know anymore.  I couldn't help but feel sorry for her, especially since she seemed as real as my heroine, Jessica Lynn Darling.  And Jordan isn't terribly close with her mother, who remarried and now runs a bed and breakfast with her artsy-fartsy husband, Nathan.  Caletti's striking first effort, despite a few slow downhillers, is worthwhile.  I'm looking forward to her follow-up, HONEY, BABY, SWEETHEART.	2004-06-20
US	17899762	R284OXTE4IV051	0310214696	72232602	Gifted Hands: The Ben Carson Story	Books	5	301	321	N	N	Contagious inspiration and motivational drive	GIFTED HANDS, an autobiographical look into the life of one of the best neurosurgeons in the U. S. of A, is so unbelievably inspirational and poignant.  If 100 people simultaneously read this book, I assure you at least one of them would walk away a changed person!  I know Ben Carson has changed me.  From now on, I'm vowing to do my absolute best.  This year of homeschooling has given me many opportunities to &quot;slack off&quot; as one might say - I've taken a few of those opportunities.  Even though I ended up with mostly As, I'm vowing to give my all into my academic performance next year.  Ben Carson's motivational drive is absolutely contagious!<br />Benjamin Carson, M.D started out on the mean Detroit streets.  His father had to leave the family after it was found he was practically living a double life: he had a girlfriend and another family while married to Ben's mother.  While his mother assured him the family would be fine, they had to struggle to make ends meet.  Yet all the while, she kept pushing and pushing Ben to be the best he could possibly be.  All the while, she knew he had it in him to get out of the Detroit ghetto in which they lived.  All the while, she knew he'd make something of himself.  And he did.<br />We see an amazing transformation from a skeptical kid, unsure of life, to an intelligent neurosurgeon with a heart of gold - so much so that he can't help but break down and cry when surgery results in the death of a patient.  He is a person who made the best of his education, as well as his college years.  He went from being the best to simply doing his best and can be regarded as an inspiration to all because his standard of life he began with wasn't as favorable as many rich families who have attended Ivy League colleges for generations.  In his case, he along with his older brother, Curtis, were the first in the family to attend colleges.  Curtis ended up at University of Michigan - Ann Arbor and Ben enrolled at Yale University, where he met his wife, Candy.<br />Ben's beginnings were certainly not easy.  Signs of determination showed as young as the age of 10.  He started out as the &quot;class dummy&quot; in school, frequently getting every single question on his math tests wrong.  But then, through hard work and a lot of reading at the local library, plus a new presciption for glasses, he expanded his knowledge in every subject.  Soon, &quot;good&quot; wasn't good enough.  Ben was driven to be the best.  In fact, he was so driven that he won a full scholarship to the renowned Yale University.<br />God has clearly played a pivotal role in Ben's life.  Before operating, he always prays to the Lord.  But one life experience in particular especially is one I won't soon forget.  Ben feared flunking a Yale exam and knew last-minute cramming would do him no good.  As he slept, he dreamt of the mathematical facts and figures and equations.  The next day, he nervously proceeded to take the exam and realized many of the questions had been in his prior dream!  After a lot of worrying, Ben scored a 97 on the exam.  He knew it was God's way of helping him.<br />What I most enjoy about this autobiography is the way in which Ben addresses the readers.  Whether his audience ranges from the age of 13 to the age of 99, either age should enjoy it.  Clearly, Ben is a brilliant genius.  He speaks eloquently, yet he doesn't throw in the &quot;big words&quot; he could probably use if he chose to.  Instead, his story is told through simple language that anyone can understand.<br />Ben Carson ought to be regarded as a role model for today's youth.  Those not on the right path to a successful future could especially benefit, as a book like this could assist in a serious straightening out of priorities.  As I mentioned before, Ben's motivational drive is contagious and inspiring!  This down-to-earth doctor's story is really meant for everyone, teens and adults alike.	2004-06-20
US	17899762	R3VSW1KCP1XVW3	0553208845	36215520	Siddhartha	Books	3	6	6	N	N	A lifelong spiritual journey	This book is a brilliant work, teeming with symbolism within characters, plot, and various events that take place during the lifelong spiritual journey of Siddhartha, a Brahman's son.  One may say this self-disovery search would categorize this novel in the coming of age genre.  Yet it goes beyond that.  We see a young boy, though wise beyond his years at a tender age, transform into an ageing man who has been through every phase and stage of life.  He's grown and developed.  We come to understand how various events play out in his life, molding him and shaping him into the person he becomes.<br />Though this book is a mere 160 pages, it is no easy read.  You need to decipher it by each threading sentence to understand the semi-complex symbolism - and it doesn't always jump right out at you, either.  And if you're looking for a book with realistic characters who think the thoughts and feel the emotions of average people, look elsewhere.  Often times, this is what I prefer in my reads, but this was a nice change from my usual teen fluff of high school angst and turmoil.  I'd recommend it for ages 13 and older.<br />I used this book to parallel with my history lesson.  Siddhartha's journey of self-discovery is said to be based on the life of Buddha, who set out to search for enlightenment.  He wished to come to understand the causes of human suffering and he achieved his goal.  It appears Siddhartha came to see the main cause of misery in human beings just like Buddha - that one thing happens to be desire.  The stages and phases of Siddhartha's life lead him from a beggar to one who lives the overprivileged life, filled with material riches and wealths.  During this period, Siddhartha gets high off the adrenaline rush of gambling, gambling, gambling...and winning over and over again - it isn't for money's sake.  Siddhartha comes to realize the riches and wealth the world has to offer make him unhappy.  In fact, it appears he, in all honestly, was happier as a beggar.<br />Siddhartha is one-dimensional and barely seems human.  As I said before, he does not feel an average person's emotions.  This is proven by how easily he leaves his father and his first-born sun, not shedding a single tear.  However, Siddhartha does indeed show extreme perseverance and determination.  Overall, Hesse uses him, along with other characters, to convey his symbolism.  He succeeds.  That, perhaps, is why SIDDHARTHA has been enjoyed for generations and will continue to be a favorite, the type of novel that can be read during any time and any phase of life.br />Siddhartha is one-dimensional and barely seems human.  As I said before, he does not feel an average person's emotions.  This is proven by how easily he leaves his father and his first-born sun, not shedding a single tear.  However, Siddhartha does indeed show extreme perseverance and determination.  Overall, Hesse uses him, along with other characters, to convey his symbolism.  He succeeds.  That, perhaps, is why SIDDHARTHA has been enjoyed for generations and will continue to be a favorite, the type of novel that can be read during any time and any phase of life.	2004-06-17
US	17899762	R30QT7FLQKL51Z	0440932599	727473049	Deenie	Books	4	15	18	N	N	Growing up isn't easy...	...and for 13 year-old Deenie Fenner, it seems as if life couldn't get any worse.  When she sees the brace for the first time, her brain churns with thoughts. \\"I won't wear it. Never!\\" she says to herself adamantly.  Deenie can't imagine wearing the brace, let alone living normally in it.  Even more distraught over the situation is Mrs. Fenner, Deenie's mother, who had high hopes for her daughter's career as a model.  <br />For as long as Deenie can remember, she has been the beauty of the family.  Her mother considers Deenie's good looks to be a precious gift that will help her to get far in life.  Helen, Deenie's older sister, is known as being the smartest of the two.  I get the impression Mrs. Fenner is a bit shallow.  She pays less attention to Helen than she does Deenie, all because Deenie is endowed in the looks department. Mrs. Fenner drags her daughter to countless modeling agencies, searching for work.  She lives vicariously through her daughter.  \\"You're going to work somewhere where they pay you, not where you pay them,\\" she says.<br />Mrs. Fenner is really no help with Deenie's scoliosis, a.k.a. curvature of the spine.  Fortunately, Deenie has two wonderful friends.  At first, when Deenie finds out about her back problems, she's sure doctors will need to operate.  When she gives her friends the news, they go out to the nearest department store and buy her a cute pink nightgown to wear at the hospital.<br />Deenie's scoliosis doesn't require surgery - just a brace for four years or more.  Deenie sees she'll have to change the way she eats.  She cannot lean over to eat soup or take a bite out of a sandwich, as she soon finds out.  She can't wear the same clothes - she needs to move up a size so they fit over her brace.  \\"Damn you crooked spine!\\" she shrieks before whacking off her beautiful hair with a pair of scissors.<br />As I'm sure you can imagine, Mrs. Fenner is not pleased.<br />Still, those who truly care for Deenie for more than just selfish reasons do stick by her.  Her best friends stay by her side and don't act any differently towards her.  Buddy Brader, an eighth grader, still doesn't hide his interest in Deenie, despite the brace and wacky new hairdo.<br />Blume has written yet another realistic novel with likeable, believable characters that many readers can relate to.  Nothing in Blume's books ever seem contrived or fake.  Things happen as they would in honest-to-God true life and the endings are never sugar-coated, sappy, or overly happy - just straight up real.  And that, I do believe, is why America's youth has enjoyed her writing for decades.	2004-06-16
US	17899762	R3NINP5PDN4RHF	0671041576	358149826	Deal with It!  A Whole New Approach to Your Body, Brain, and Life as a gURL	Books	4	21	24	N	N	For ages 13 and up, I'd say	Keep in mind that this book is not something to read cover-to-cover like a novel - it is much more of a reference book.  Basically, it talks about sex, puberty, and changes in the body, as well as drugs, a bit of peer pressure, and certain kinds of mental illnesses.  Still, parents need to know what they are buying their girls.  My mom bought it for me while I was away at camp and for whatever reason, shipped it to me while I was residing up in the Pocono Mountains.  The girls in my bunk went crazy and laughed hysterically over the pictures.  Then, they proceeded to pass it around the bunk and read passages out loud.  Every once in awhile, a counselor would find the book wide open on her pillow, flipped to a page with some diagram on it.<br />Yes, THOSE kind of diagrams.  Body parts.<br />This is info every girl ought to know about, however.  Nothing really ought to be deemed controversial here.  This book basically talks about life, or something like it.  What goes on in this book is happening, as I speak, to girls everywhere.  If you've got qualms about graphic CARTOON pictures, then do not by this book.  And for mothers reading this, I suggest your girl be in the eighth grade.  Or if she's 12 and mature...what the hell.  They'll find out everything here sooner or later!	2004-06-16
US	17899762	R2UKHJYBRIYWS8	0590371258	253930945	Out Of The Dust	Books	1	14	24	N	N	Terribly depressing with no uplifters whatsoever	This must be one of the worst pieces of literature I have ever read in my 16 years.  Thank you, Waldron Mercy Academy, for providing me with such lovely book suggestions to brighten my spirit and enrich my mind.  Despite my obviously intense loathing of this book, notice I did not use the word \\"trash\\" to describe it and that's because it isn't.  In fact, it's a very well-written book, done in free verse style.  While the author posesses skill, I could not bring myself to enjoy this book.  Why?<br />It chronicles a piece of history, the Oklahoma Dust Bowl, to be exact.  We watch as Billie Jo, a helpless little girl, loses everyone and everything she cares for.  Her mother and unborn brother?  Dead.  Burned to death.  Her father?  Alive but seemingly dead, in a trance-like state as if he is amidst a literal out-of-body experience.  The man's got to grieve.<br />Billy Jo talks, in her free-verse diary, about her family's (or what's left of it) crops being destroyed by the storms.  THERE IS NO HOPE FOR ANYONE! EVERYONE DIES! I usually detest bubblegum-happy endings that I sometimes find in YA fluff I'm often drawn to at Borders and Barnes, but I was almost wishing for a happy ending in poor little Billie Jo's case.<br />Hesse seems drawn to depressing topics - maybe everyone around her croaked, who knows?  She is talented, I'll give her that - and I do rather like LETTERS TO RIFKA, which I would recommend instead of this book.	2004-06-14
US	17899762	R2I70UT0SV6KPS	044022831X	704689890	Love and Other Four-Letter Words (Laurel-Leaf Books)	Books	3	27	30	N	N	A tad lackluster, semi-predictable - yet FUN!	Naturally, when I found from the back cover synopsis that the story focused on another 16 year-old Sammie, I felt I HAD to read this book and that I'd for sure enjoy it.<br />I was a bit wrong in my assumption.<br />Don't get me wrong - it isn't a terrible book by any means.  I was expecting more, however.  Carolyn Mackler is the author of one of my faves, THE EARTH, MY BUTT, AND OTHER BIG ROUND THINGS so I expected this effort to be just as humorous.  I'm glad I read THE EARTH, MY BUTT... before this light read because when it comes to new authors, first impressions are everything to me.  This book left me unsatisfied.  Yet if you compare this debut to THE EARTH, MY BUTT... you will for sure see how Mackler grew and improved as an author, especially in terms of characters and plot.<br />Sammie Davis is a once-kissed 16 year-old who is ashamed of her big breasts, nicknamed The Grand Tetons (there's the highlight of the humor right there).  She feels inferior to beautiful and brainy best friend, Kitty, who is sexually active and talks of her sex life with boyfriend Jeff.  When Mr. and Mrs. Davis decide together on a trial separation, Sammie and her mother pack their things and move on into a tiny, cramped apartment.<br />Fortunately, before school starts, Sammie befriends eccentric Phoebe, who is basically the most developed and interesting character in the novel.  The two bond over inexperience with boys.  Phoebe is far different from Kitty, which is probably why they never hit it off when she visits.  Kitty grows angry when she hears that Sammie told Phoebe of her boy problems.  Jeff has been cheating with the girl who now lives in Sammie's old house!  Kitty storms off and heads home with barely any explanation to provide a very confused Mrs. Davis.<br />Mrs. Davis herself is having issues.  It's obvious she's amidst a rough patch and is in no position to care for Sammie.  Honestly, she would have been better off with her father.<br />Like THE EARTH, MY BUTT... this novel deals with self-discovery and finding confidence after a long period of lacking it.  \\"Like a game of hide and seek\\" womanhood has crept up on Sammie and as the novel progresses, she becomes more used to her body.   She also gets kissed for the second time.  ::eye roll::  Who's the boy?  Her mother's best friend's son, Eli.  I would have preferred if Sammie instead realized that boys don't define you and that you do not require one to be happy.<br />At the end, Sammie makes a promise to herself to make amends with Kitty.  Mrs. Davis finally wakes up and realizes she needs to take action in her life and in her daughter's life.  Throughout the book, we don't get to know Mr. Davis - he and his daughter's conversations are curt and short.  But he apologizes in the end.  Naturally, hugs and tears ensue.  He tells Sammie that the trial separation is not definitely a permanent thing.  Perhaps the less than perfect ending compensates for often bland characters and a somewhat predictable plot - just a little bit.	2004-06-14
US	17899762	R1W01Z3C2D35RY	0440984696	241844408	Tiger Eyes	Books	4	16	19	N	N	Coping and moving on from loss at 15 years-old	Davey Wexler is merely 15 years old when her father is shot to death in a hold-up that takes place at his 7-11 store.  His death means that he's not only gone for good, but that a ton of new changes are to follow.  It means Davey, her mother, and her younger brother, Jason, will be moving to New Mexico to cope.  It also means leaving behind the old life, along with other people she loves, such as her best friend, Lenaya, and her boyfriend, Hugh.<br />It takes awhile for reality to settle in over the denial Davey should naturally - and does - feel.  It's ever-so hard for her to believe that, at the funeral, it is her father's body in the casket and not someone else's.  She contemplates life without him and wonders if it is feasible.  Perhaps this book should be titled It's Not the End of the World, rather than Judy's middle school read about divorce and how it affects a suburban family.  This novel is titled TIGER EYES because Davey has gorgeous hazel eyes.<br />Once she arrives at Los Alamos, she naturally feels what one might feel.  She's nervous about meeting people, about making new friends.  She worries about how her life at a new high school will turn out.  Although many parts of this story are intense, the entire novel flows smoothly and believably together and is not at all aimed at shocking audiences through violence like some may think.  True to form, Judy addresses how to cope with loss and creates likable characters.  I feel lucky I have yet to experience the death of a loved one and hope I don't have to any time soon.  But it's something today's youth faces daily, so why not address it in modern-day literature?  That's an especially wonderful way to go about it, a great way to reach readers.<br />After therapy, Davey's mother decides it's time to move back to New Jersey.  Much of Blume's books take place in New Jersey because that is where she grew up and she still resides there today.  With the Wexlers moving back home, we sense a return to normalcy.  However, Los Alamos really has become normalcy for Davey.  She's grown accustomed to it and it feels just like home.  She knows the environment and has made friends as well.  Still, it's as if she left her New Jersey life on hold and she realizes moving home will complete her experience in coping over her father's death.  She simply needs to pick up the place where she left off.<br />You will (or should!) enjoy this book whether you've lost someone you cherished or you have yet to make it through such a harrowing experience.  This YA novel frankly makes me wish Judy would bring us some more of her YA stuff - and SOON!	2004-06-14
US	17899762	RHKL3VT2ZTYXG	0385730586	122662979	Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants (Book 1)	Books	2	11	15	N	N	Disappointed - overrated and overhyped novel!	I incessantly heard about how \\"great\\" and \\"amazing\\" SISTERHOOD OF THE TRAVELING PANTS was and judging by the reviews, most seem to feel it was something very special.  Even if I'm the only one who didn't enjoy this book, it sure as hell isn't going to stop me from expressing my opinion of it!<br />So you know the synopsis, no?  Four best friends with four totally different physiques each fit into one pair of pants bought via the local thrift shop.  So they spend a summer apart and decide to pass the pants around through the mail.  For God's sake, they even have RULES about the pants!  Don't let boys take off the pants, though you may take them off in his presence.  Don't cuff the pants.  Don't call yourself fat while in the pants or use the word \\"phat\\" when referring to the pants.  Blahblahblahblahblah...<br />The synopsis was intriguing, I must confess.  It made this novel sound new and exciting - like something I'd never read before, despite the themes of friendship and self-love stressed.  The story appeared to have almost a magical vibe to it.  The girls, by some strange coincidence (or magic?) were all born on September.  The pants fit all of their body types and make them feel confident and fantastic.  Yes, I realized, this book is different from anything I've ever read.<br />But not necessarily in a good way.<br />I felt the characters were cardboard and one-dimensional.  And quite frankly, I had no idea such an enthralling-sounding concept could bore me to sleep so easily.  As I read page after page, I prayed to God it would end so I could toss it on my bookshelf where it would collect dust.<br />I was shocked to see that Amazon recommended the Jessica Darling books SLOPPY FIRSTS and SECOND HELPINGS by Megan McCafferty to those who liked THE SISTERHOOD...  To do that is an insult to those books, which far surpass the level of greatness of THE SISTERHOOD...  It is totally ridiculous and uncalled for.  Between THE SISTERHOOD... and Jessica Darling books, thereis absolutely no contest.  I hope people are smart enough to see that.	2004-06-14
US	17899762	R14B7ZIUEK3OX9	0152050884	566022154	What Happened to Lani Garver	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Do angels really walk the earth?	Carol Plum-Ucci's novel, WHAT HAPPENED TO LANI GARVER, is so unbelievably remarkable that words cannot fully express its greatness.  It takes place in locations I know and the story's protagonist, Claire, is nothing short of amazing.  This novel is thought-provoking.  It compelled me to ask questions I'd never asked myself.  And, to my surprise, it even made me cry.  Usually, books do not move me all that much - this book was an exception.<br />You will come to know and love Claire, a member of her high school elite on Hackett Island, close to Philadelphia.  As I mentioned, this novel talks of many places I know, such as South Street, a whimsical place where, in real life, you can find \\"preps,\\" people with countless piercings, tattoos, and hair hues, goths, rockers, etc.  But WHAT HAPPENED TO... strays from labels.<br />Enter Lani Garver.  Is Lani a he or a she?  Well, although it never really is determined, we suspect Lani to be a boy.  It's a difficult thing to confirm because he has the long lashes and red lips of a girl.  He's tall and broad-shouldered like a boy.  His hair is longer than the average boy's but his hands are a bit more on the masculine side.  And he hates labels.  Here, he refers to them as \\"boxes.\\" \\"Gay\\" is a box. \\"Straight\\" and \\"bi\\" are boxes.  As are \\"boy\\" and \\"girl.\\"  Upon first seeing him in the cafeteria, Claire is intrigued and says she'll be his friend, much to her best friend Macy's dismay.<br />Claire is a leukemia survivor who missed out on the junior high experience.  Macy, kind and less judgemental than the other girls of her group, befriended Claire when she returned to school after being taught at home.  Since their time spent together, they've collected many fond memories, many of them frozen in photographs.  Macy deems Lani to be an odd character and is less drawn to him than Claire.  Clearly, she gets jealous as a friendship quickly evolves between Lani and Claire.<br />Claire incessantly worries over relapsing back into her leukemia and is always looking for symptoms - bruises darker than average blemishes and orange-tinged blood.  At The Children's Hospital of Philadelphia, (BEEN THERE!!!) Claire meets a doctor named Marcus, who explains to her the theory of floating angels.  At first, she thinks he must be joking and laughs, despite the fact he's totally serious.  Marcus explains how angels are sexless beings, that you cannot tell whether they are male or female.  Immediately, Claire thinks of Lani.  Oddly enough, Marcus knows him, as does the rest of the hospital staff.<br />As their friendship grows stronger, Lani teaches Claire things she could have never possibly learned from her regular crew of school friends.  Lani judges no one.  He labels no one and has acceptance for everyone.  Besides that, he's mind-blowingly intelligent and introduces Claire to new friends, people she immediately clicks with.  But everyone on Hackett assumes Lani is gay, a box he does not want to be in, and they taunt him to no end.  Claire's friends are genuinely worried about her and once they see she enjoys Lani's company and won't leave him, they go to drastic measures to try and \\"knock sense\\" back into Claire.<br />Plum-Ucci's novel is a dazzling piece of work, what YM magazine has called, \\"Gripping.\\"  Yet that word barely covers it.  As Claire battles personal demons and questions her own sanity, you can't help but feel her pain as she narrates her story.  And as you read on, you will come to understand the sad truth of a hate crime and how those involved will always be forced to pay their dues, more or less.	2004-06-14
US	17899762	R1VT3SMDXMIJWA	0316735183	287192859	I Like It Like That: A Gossip Girl Novel	Books	3	9	12	N	N	I like it like this ;)	Von Ziegesar's series about overprivileged Mahattanites moves location, all the way to the ski slopes.  And Georgina Sparks is coming along for the ride, as well as the rest of the GG girl crew: Blair, Serena, Nate, Chuck Bass, etc.<br />Georgina does not need to be in the books.  She first appeared in BECAUSE I'M WORTH IT, since Nate's whole weed smoking incident.  He met her at the clinic and she pulled him into her world of self-destruction.  Blair grimly calls her the \\"Miu Miu shorts slut\\" prior to this book and now, although Georgie has always seemed a bit slutty, she's gone wild, disrobing whenever and flaunting every private part of her body more times than a typical Girls Gone Wild babe.  She also unabashedly informs Nate that she lost her virginity to Chuck Bass when she was in the sixth grade.  Funny, Nate is the only one she won't sleep with.  It is obvious her relationship with Nate won't last long - not because she won't have sex with him but because she's just too wild for his liking.<br />Jenny has a new beau.  They are suited for each other, as he is not Nate and does not lack the common sense of Nate and is sweet, kind, considerate, and romantic.<br />The story focuses on a short period of time and I prefer the books that focus on longer stretches.  The next book is called, YOU'RE THE ONE THAT I WANT.  You know what that means (and no, you do not find out who Gossip Girl is)! Nate and Blair are so rekindling their lost love/lust.  Hopefully, it'll have the spark found in most GG books - this one didn't totally have it but still beats the copycats.  And when GG is good, it's the ideal teenage fluff, a light read that  will either keep you guessing or be extremely predictable.	2004-06-11
US	17899762	R30QGY4LONEKVY	0440904196	798277940	Are You There God? It's Me, Margaret	Books	5	65	75	N	N	A Fave Since Age 9!	Judy Blume's writings were often deemed controversial.  Oddly enough, Margaret's concerns placed this book, in the year 1970, under that label.  Whether it be because of sex talk, periods, or Playboy references, this is a book that all preteens ought to read.  Why?  Margaret is a regular girl dealing with normal adolescent troubles.  She's moved to New Jersey, she suspects, because her parents wanted to distance herself from her grandmother, who paid for Margaret's private school tuition, knit her cute little sweaters, and doted on her in a big way.  Now, Maragret will go to public school.  You can already see the transition to a new neighborhood won't be all too rough - she and Nancy Wheeler become fast friends and find they will be in the same sixth grade class.  She, along with Nancy, Gretchen Potter and Janie Loomis, start the Four Preteen Sensations.<br />Blume frankly addresses puberty, as well as religion.  I like the fact that Margaret feels she can talk to God without actually belonging to any particular organized religion.  She is technically half Catholic and half Jewish and a pivotal part of the book is her search to find which religion is right for her.  She visits a synogague and a church, yet does not feel God in either place.  This exploration of faith is actually something I have seen quite a few younger kids go through today in society - it really is no different from 1970!<br />Margaret constantly wants her period.  Why?  I don't know.  It will make her feel more grown-up, more womanly, I guess.  Yes, I know, I know, I just answered my own question!  :)  Margaret also wants the body of a woman.  She and her friends gossip about Laura Danker, a buxom sixth grader with a bad reputation, seemingly only because of her figure.  Margaret wants breasts and goes bra shopping, only because the Four PTS girls are required to wear one as club rules - she doesn't even fill a double A.  As some of the girls begin getting their periods, Margaret wonders when her time will come and we wonder if it will come during the 149 pages of the book.<br />Blume captures the essence of the preteen age in this long acclaimed novel.  Believable characters and a believable plot, as with other books of hers, will make this one enjoyable.  Margaret asks herself questions that we ask ourselves everyday.  She worries about the same things we worried about at her age - maybe even now.  She has similar thoughts, concerns, and feelings and does not seem at all contrived or mechanical.  This way, many will be able to relate with Margaret and her story.r time will come and we wonder if it will come during the 149 pages of the book.<br />Blume captures the essence of the preteen age in this long acclaimed novel.  Believable characters and a believable plot, as with other books of hers, will make this one enjoyable.  Margaret asks herself questions that we ask ourselves everyday.  She worries about the same things we worried about at her age - maybe even now.  She has similar thoughts, concerns, and feelings and does not seem at all contrived or mechanical.  This way, many will be able to relate with Margaret and her story.	2004-06-11
US	17899762	R2U2XQ2OEM8Y5I	0316911488	778462508	You Know You Love Me: A Gossip Girl Novel	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Gossip Girl at her best	The title, YOU KNOW YOU LOVE ME, is most likely derived from the way Gossip Girl signs her web posts on her site, gossipgirl.net.  All the fans know this!<br />Blair may be bitchy but she does have the most depth out of all the characters - and she is bright, unlike...<br />...Nate, who acts like an utter jerk at Mrs. Waldorf's wedding, the worst day of Blair's life, a time when she reallllly needs some support.  He takes it up with Jenny Humphrey, a stalker freshman at Constance Billard, a prestigous all-girls school where she gawks at and aspires to be the kinds of girls Blair and Serena Van der Woodsen already are without any effort required on their parts.  All Nate does is smoke weed and he expects to get into Brown because his interviewer convinced him to apply early action.  So suddenly, right before the application date, he's completely diligent and absorbed with his school work.  Nate is instantly drawn to Jenny because he feels he doesn't need to strive to impress her, which is the opposite of the state of his relationship with Blair.<br />Serena is no longer the leper she was in book one.  Nope.  Now she is officially cool again, despite the fact Blair hates her guts.  Now that Serena is herself again, boys flock to her as if they have been beckoned.  She is beautiful, graceful, and lithe, just like a delicate nymph.  Still, she is the source of a lot of Blair Waldorf's anger and frustrations, especially with her constant nonchalant and carefree attitude.  She too wants Brown admission.  She too has mediocre grades.  So she figures she'll win the film festival and show Brown she's something more.  With Vanessa Abrahms, film lover and admirer of Dan, who once swooned over Serena (romantic triangle!!!), things work out in Serena's favor.  Even if they didn't, you know she'd persevere.  And if Brown doesn't want to accept her, \\"&@#$ it!\\" as her hot older brother and Brown enrollee, Erik, tells her.<br />Dan is pathetic.  He writes poetry expressly for Serena, all about his \\"love\\" for her.  Alas, Serena wants no more than friendship.  Dan and Vanessa get together over his caffeine and nicotine fix, and suddenly, everything is peachy and Serena is old news.  I love how GG's pressing issues are always solved, if not in the first, then usually by the next.  Except for...<br />...Blair's Yale admission.  It's her father's alma mater.  Blair is gorgeous and has brains to boot.  She could probably even do Harvard if she felt like it.  But she only has eyes for Yale, which is a shame since she totally screwed up her interview.  Of course, she can always blame her stepbrother, Aaron, being he had her in a cheesy motel room eating Chee-tos and chocolate bars and didn't wake up (and wake her up) until a half hour before the very interview began.  Still, she can't blame Aaron for the fact she KISSED HER INTERVIEWER!  ::ouch::<br />Aaron is laid back and Ivy League bound.  The son of fat and rosacea-faced Cyrus Rose, his existence thrives on herbal cigarettes.  He's a good character addition to the series and although Blair seems to loathe his existence at first, by the end of the book, she's coming around to being okay with him, in the tiniest way imaginable, that is.<br />Now for Mrs. Waldorf's wedding to homely Cyrus!  Everyone has a part in it, whether it be a guest or a maid of honor, like Serena, Kati Farkas, and Isabel Coates.  Everyone will be there, including the staff of Vogue magazine, to take pics for an upcoming issue.  Blair seemingly at first has no support or a way to channel her teen angst and anguish over the fact her mother is marrying a rich nitwit.  Rich, yet a nitwit nonetheless.  Nate is no help, as he totally blows her off and then goes off to smooch with Jenny behind her back.  Mrs. Waldorf herself is urging Blair Cornelia Waldorf to become Blair Cornelia Waldorf-Rose.  Until Serena finds her amidst a hysterical sobbing fit, complete with mascara-laced tears, it seems as if Blair is destined for doom.<br />I love that Blair and Serena rekindle their friendship in Blair's time of need.  You knew their reconciling was going to pop up sooner or later.  Everything usually does go right in the world of Gossip Girl. :)  Read this one.  Von Ziegesar has her great and okay Gossip Girl books and I have yet to hate an installment of the series.  This second book is one of the better novels!	2004-06-11
US	17899762	R304L24ONM7PW5	9996669610	406487710	Forever	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Teens acting responsibly	I recently wrote to Judy Blume, one of my favorite authors, via her website.  She responded by thanking me for my \\"warm note.\\"  I did some further research on her site and found out why she wrote FOREVER.  The book was first published in 1976 - her stepdaughter, I believe, wanted a frank story about two nice kids who have sex without one of them facing terrible consequences, meaning death, pregnancy, and alas, abortions.<br />Enter Katherine Danzinger and Michael Wagner, two high school seniors.  I like the fact that Blume used two seventeen year-olds, rather than two fifteen year-olds.  I'm not even saying fifteen is the wrong age to be having sex - there is no right age in my mind.  It's the level of responsibility, really - Katherine proves she is just that: responsible.  She uses protection, a condom and the pill.  She's a good student, a daughter, a sister to younger sibling, Jaime, and a best friend to Erica Small, who feels the need to be more outspoken than Katherine because she wants to compenstate for her short stature.  Michael, at first, is not a virgin, while Katherine is.  He is her first boyfriend and as they grow closer and the relationship turns sexual, they come to know each other mentally and Katherine becomes \\"mentally ready,\\" so she feels she can now lose her virginity to the boy she loves.<br />Besides sex, FOREVER also deals with loss - Katherine's grandfather, with whom she was very close, dies after struggling to live through his stroke.  Katherine has a nice family relationship.  She seems almost to be a younger version of her mother, while Jaime is a younger version of Katherine.  She loves her parents dearly and is shocked to find they are sending her away to summer camp to work, completely against her will.  They think she and Michael direly need some time apart and Katherine, unjustly so, has no say in the decision.<br />Katherine and Michael promised to be together forever.  Now, at camp, Katherine contemplates what that really means.Camp is where she receives the devastating news about her grandfather.  Michael isn't there but Theo, a sexy tennis instructor, is.   Had her parents never sent her away, this may have never happened.  If Katherine was older than 17-18 (she turns 18 in the book), maybe things would have been different.  But since things are the way they are, she must deal with the situation at hand the best way she knows how.<br />Blume's story is frank, melancholy, and realistic.  The ending may not seem ideal but it is as real and true as possible and that is what readers must understand.  I first read this book when I was 13 and still have no difficulty understanding the reasons for its critical acclaims.  If you want a story of love, truth, and hardships in a relationship, this is the book for you to read.	2004-06-11
US	17899762	R11JRWD1HZ0A4E	0609807919	24978645	Second Helpings (Jessica Darling, Book 2)	Books	5	6	8	N	N	More authentic teen voice and witty humor from Jessica D.	Columbia U grad and New Jerseyian Megan McCaffery does it again with this amazing sequel to her first hit, SLOPPY FIRSTS.  <br />Despite her loathing of the Clueless Crew, Bridget becomes Jessica's best gal pal at Pineville.  She is far less annoying than her counterparts, Sarah and Manda.  Bridget meanwhile is having a secret relationship with Pepe Le Pew, who once, in French class, pined over Jessica and made many efforts to win her affections.   Pepe is another one of the few normal people at Pineville and Jessica is drawn to him because he doesn't embarass easily and he's as intellectually bright and ahead of the game as she is.<br />And so is Marcus Flutie, He Who Shall Remain Nameless.  What they really need is each other's friendships and after almost a year of silence between them from Sloppy Firsts' New Year's incident, you are always waiting for that special moment when you know they'll hook up.<br />But there's obstacles in that, including Len Levy ::gasp::, who has suddenly turned into Jessica's idea of hot, courtesy of the miracle acne drug, Accutane.  Their relationship never really heats up, however.  He decides he wants to save sex for marriage.  Hideously skanky Manda wants to be a seconday virgin after her countless flings that earned her nicknames such as \\"Lend-A-Handa-Manda\\" and \\"The Headmaster.\\"  So Len dumps Jessica (and she tells him off later on) and takes up with Manda, which had me in stitches.<br />That's the thing with SECOND HELPINGS: same amusement, same old Jessica Lynn \\"Not-so\\" Darling, same sarcastic wit from book one.  As you read into her wishes to be accepted into Columbia U, much to her parents' dismay, you'll understand her stress over college admissions because you'll be in the middle of it, have gone through it, or you'll be thinking about it (hopefully).  Jessica is a hard worker and intellectually above the rest of Pineville's population.  If anyone deserves to go to Columbia, it is she.  It's just so hard for her to believeshe'll get something she wants so badly.<br />From the Marcus Flutie hookup, to trying drugs for the first time and suddenly being enamored with how awesome her sweater is, to her Columbia letter, to a totally unexpected meeting with now gay and out Paul Parlipiano, Second Helpings should have enough surprises and laughter for both the YA and adult crowd.  Both I and my mother adored this book.  <br />I can't wait for book three, THIRD CHARMS, coming out in either 2005 or early 2006...yes, a long time for our third dose of Jessica:(	2004-06-11
US	17899762	RFH1VKMHPLY42	0064408620	990885726	I Was a Teenage Fairy (Ageless Books)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	A fairy tale/modern mix	SPIN magazine writer Francesca Lia Block perfectly depicts a portrayal of a fairy tale-esque story set against a modern-day backdrop of Hollywood glamour and ideals.  The story chronicles the adventures and misadventures of Barbie Marks and her best friend, a fairy who goes by the name of Mab.<br />Ever since Barbie has been a young girl until the age of 16, her mother has been living through her.  She's wanted her to be a model for ages but Barbie has no intentions of ever wanting runway success or to become a carbon copy of her namesake, the buxom Mattel doll.  It's a good thing Barbie has Mab for a companion.  The two perfectly balance each other out.  Barbie is a quiet and timid girl while Mab is feisty and totally outspoken.  She never has a problem telling Barbie what she thinks of her - Mab's opinions are uncensored and completely no-holds barred.<br />Due to her mother's wishes and many photography sessions, Barbie is a successful model at 16.  Her world is one of star-studded glamour and the sort of life envied by many.  Though some may aspire to work Barbie's profession, she is not happy.  She and Griffin Tyler, another child model, were both photographed by the very same pedophiliac photographer and now share the same dark secret and both have washed-up parentals who live through them because of their own failures.  With Mab's guidance, is it possible for their emotional scars to be healed?<br />Well, the changing of Barbie's name to Serena Moon at the end of the novel signifies a new beginning, a new life Barbie - er, Serena - will live just the way she wants to.  The little girl she was and the mature woman she becomes, along with fairy tale elements, make this an unusual yet enjoyable read.	2004-06-11
US	17899762	R15H0XFNTEXR9U	0440226430	902500282	Summer Sisters	Books	2	4	12	N	N	A "SUMMER" easy to forget	SUMMER SISTERS chronicles the best friendship of two stunning beauties, Caitlin and Victoria, or Vix, as Caitlin affectionately proclaims her.  The two meet in the sixth grade and are of different personalities: Vix is working-class and quiet, while Caitlin is outspoken, wild, and privileged.  The first few pages are promising but as I better got to know and understand the characters, I found myself intensely disliking them.  The friendship blossoms when Caitlin invites Vix to her Martha Vineyard retreat for summer vacation, much to her shock.<br />The set up that first appeared promising quickly rolled downhill.  Caitlin's antics seriously irked me.  She betrayed Vix by sleeping with Bru, Vix's first true love, while they were still together, only Vix doesn't find out until much later.  Bru, growing up on Martha's Vineyard, knows no place else and isn't eager to be anywhere except for his home.  All he really seemed to want from Vix was sex.  First, it seems, he only wants sex, then only marriage and nothing less.   Vix isn't ready and he acts like a total unrespecting jerk and seemingly didn't understand her unreadiness.  I, on the other hand, probably didn't understand Bru to the equivalency he didn't understand Vix.<br />Though the friendship has held together over time, Caitlin is not at all a loyal friend.  Some of the things she does are unforgivable, while Vix remains a meek, helpless, pathetic little girl, despite the fact she's much, much smarter than that.  Caitlin took advantage in their relationship and the end of the story, the way it ends, almost seems to clarify to consequences she had to endure because of that.  If you've read the book, you know what I mean.  If not, stay away anyway.  This adult novel sucks big time.<br />And Vix, despite the justifications (does it make me a bad person to call is that?), just questions, \\"WHY DID YOU LEAVE ME!!!\\"  Ugh.  It makes me want to kick her.<br />This novel is a bore and the characters, although not completely bereft of life, were not likeable at all.  Judy, stick to the YA and Middle School stuff, please.  Unlikeable characters make for a rather unlikeable book, if you really want to know the truth.	2004-06-11
US	17899762	R1APC19U13GXZW	0316702757	670252861	Keeping You a Secret	Books	2	5	10	N	N	Peter's second effort is too predictable for my liking	This is the first book I've read by Julie Ann Peters and while I'm glad she's tackling the subject of lesbianism, I felt the story to be contrived and very cliched, as well as basically, for the most part, predictable.  <br />I found it cliched because it seemed to follow the formula for other novels of its gay teen genre.  Holland has a boyfriend yet crushes on new girl Cece Goddard and now needs to figure out how to solve this issue.  Excuse me, but wasn't it almost the same in RAINBOW BOYS?  Well, Holland liked Cece and Cece liked her back.  Same with Kyle and Jason!  Which book came out first?  I'm not sure, but I do know which one I like better.<br />When Holland finally comes out to her mother, she beats her and kicks her out of the house.  Pardon me once again, but that seems just a little extreme.  In RAINBOW BOYS, the guys who came out always had at least one parent supporting them and usually more than one friend, as well.  Holland has Cece and that's about it - unless you want to count the other folks at the Gay Resource Center.<br />Holland loses all her friends.  Seth, her boyfriend, grows incredibly angry when she tells him she must leave him.  Her mother, who once lived through her achievments and accomplishments, now seems to honestly hate her but when she goes back home, she seems willing to forgive and forget.<br />If she goes back to being straight, that is.<br />Cece's out-and-proud tactics and such totally strain being believable.  If you are considering coming out to friends and family and have doubts, a book like this will make you want to keep quiet forever!  Sure, Holland is being herself, but barely anyone is sticking by her!  She isn't going to a selective liberal arts or Ivy League college - she's doing a small school near home!  These two girls, Cece and Holland, are now trying to plan their lives around each other!  Quite a few parts in this book are just too difficult for me to grasp, and friends of mine have said the same thing, if you want second, third, and fourth opinions...	2004-06-11
US	17899762	R1NIFWALBKIDVG	0679885501	694914807	Crash	Books	5	12	12	N	N	A novel about the typical jock is anything but ordinary	I first read Spinelli's CRASH during the sixth grade for assigned reading at Waldron Mercy Academy, my private grade school.  I was pulled in from page one and couldn't help but laugh out loud at the adventures and the misadventures of Crash Coogan, who got his nickname all because of a long ago incident involving a football helmet and his cousin, Bridget, who Crash knocked down into three feet of post-blizzard snow.  Crash is not an inherently bad kid - he's got his flaws just like the rest of the human population.  In CRASH, Spinelli takes the archetypal bullying jock and narrates through him, making this book anything but ordinary.<br />Nonetheless, Crash is a bully.  Enter Penn Webb, his target.  Why pick on poor Penn, you ask?  Why not pick on Penn? is more of the question here.  Penn Webb is a skinny Quaker boy, mild-mannered and with a heart of gold.  He wears used clothes that are painfully outdated, he's joined the cheerleading squad, his aging parents look like grandparents, and he officially lives in the dinkiest house in the entire universe (a former garage).  So Penn, very obviously flawed with qualifications to make him an outcast, must now endure teasing from Crash and his best friend, Mike DeLuca.<br />Spinelli captures how spoiled and materialistic kids can be today, only they most likely don't view themselves that way.  I remember it took me a long time to wake up and realize that yes, I was a spoiled child.  All Crash cares about are new sneakers, football, and being the best footballer he can be.  Pretty shallow, eh?  Crash is a self-centered bully who only cares about himself and how he is viewed by others which, by the way, as I am sure you realize, is a natural thing and has been since the beginning of time.<br />Oddly enough, Penn Webb, geeky, lanky Penn, has things that Crash desires.  He has his parents' full and undivided attention.  He's won the affections of the class beauty and despite the fact Crash is a star footballer, he cannot winher over the way charming Penn has.  So despite having some things Crash wants, expensive sneakers included, he is not happy.  When Crash's grandfather, Scooter, whom Crash absolutely adores and has always had a tight-knit relationship with, comes down with a stroke, Crash is heartbroken.  But this period of time is more than just an opportunity to grieve - it is an opportunity to wake up.  And he does.  This awakening proves to him that cruelly teasing poor and defenseless Penn Webb is totally uncalled for and - surprise - no longer fun on his part.  Crash's transition from smug, self-absorbed jock to an empathetic and caring person, all the more wiser as a result of growth, is enlightening and makes this book what it is.  Crash used to be so close-minded.  Now he knows what is significant and what is not.  New friendships blossom and old ones fade, as Crash comes to realize some of his friends and their cruel antics are not like the new him.<br />Spinelli is a wonderful author.  I admire his abilities to construct a story so amusing yet so deep with characters, who they are, and how they grow.  Plus, Spinelli evidently knows kids today - he is able to capture excellent insight into their mind, especially through this type of narration.  CRASH will make you laugh but it will also make you think.  Those two elements are what I often times look for in a good book, which is probably why I've loved this one for four years.	2004-06-11
US	17899762	R3NA43JYARXI69	0671039725	769595666	Carrie	Books	5	24	29	N	N	Bittersweet revenge of an outcast	I first read King's CARRIE when I was in the eighth grade.  I am now a high school sophomore and this novel still remains a favorite.  It's a tale of an outcast who discovers that she's been blessed, or cursed, with the rare and incredible powers of telekinesis.  This means she can move objects and make things happen merely with the power of her mind.<br />Both home life and high school life are nightmares, almost literally.  King opens the story with Carrie getting her very first period in the locker room after gym class.  She's up in arms about what to do - at 16 she has never experienced nor heard of such a thing.  Her classmates turn vicious and scream chants of \\"Plug it up! Plug it up!\\" started by truly cruel Chris Hargensen.  The girls then hurl tampons and sanitary napkins at her from the broken machine on the wall.  Poor, helpless Carrie stands there, utterly confused and humiliated all the same, looking \\"the part of the sacrificial goat.\\"  The \\"fun\\" stops when Ms. Desjardin, the gym teacher intervenes, slapping Carrie to snap her out of her hysterical fit.<br />Carrie is sent home early that day.  Out of all the girls, Sue Snell feels the guiltiest and wants to make it up to Carrie.  So she convinces her boyfriend, Tommy Ross, to take Carrie to the prom.  If you've seen the 70s movie, you know what goes down at the prom.  If not, read and see.<br />At home, Carrie deals with a religiously fanatic mother who never spoke about menstruation because she believed it was sinful.  Mrs. White is a single mother who preaches, what she believes to be Christ's ways, all through the neighborhood.  When Carrie is \\"bad\\" and \\"sinful,\\" she gets thrown into the prayer closet to \\"pray for forgiveness.\\"  Everything in Mrs. White's mind is sinful.  And because Carrie's father died, she has no one else to turn to for help.<br />This novel, at times, is honestly horrifying.  Lovers of scary stories (and King) are sure to enjoy this read.  Some complain about the passages of Carrie White and her telekinesis but I found them to be the ideal story tie-in and quite useful to explain Carrie's past and further talk of  her powers.  If you've seen the movie, you may almost feel as if it's a must to read this book but that really isn't the case here.  The book stands wonderful all on its own.	2004-06-10
US	17899762	R1P0OSC0J4AKPC	0609807900	814027021	Sloppy Firsts (Jessica Darling, Book 1)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	McCafferty's debut rings with authentic teenage voice	Megan McCafferty is a former Ivy Leaguer, a mother, a wife - and, most obviously, a seriously talented writer.  This book proves so.  In what is acclaimed as one of the best teenage novels ever, Jessica Darling, or Jessica &quot;Not-so&quot; Darling, as her father jokingly calls her, is sarcastically amusing and going through teenage norms in the screwy world of high school. <br />She will always love Hope Weaver, her very best friend who moved away from Pineville. Jessica feels as if Hope was the only person who understood her and as you come to know snarky Manda, insecure Bridget, and annoyingly nasal Sara, you'll understand Jessica is right in assuming this.  Her clique is soooooo below her, quite frankly.  &quot;Ha. And in more ways than one.&quot;  Whether it is intellectually or in terms of maturity, Jessica, without a whole lot of effort on her part, happens to be things her clique is not and never will be.  It seems no one can fill the void Hope left behind.  Hyacinth Wallace, the newcomer from New York, at first seems as if she's the closest thing to Hope Jessica can get her hands on.<br />But no.  She turns out to be a fake poseur.  Ironically, that's what every member of the Pineville population appears to be.  Even ::gasp:: Jessica!!!  Mrs. Wallace turns out to be on an undercover mission to come to understand the ways of a regular suburban high school.  She's had a tumultuous life and wants Harvard admission for something else besides her parents' fat trust fund.  So her debut novel will let the world know all about the shallowness, jockdom, and stupidity that lies within Pineville High's halls.  This inspires Jessica to fire back against Pineville with her school newspaper article that compels all to ask, &quot;Am I a poseur?&quot;  Marcus Flutie encourages Jessica to wake up and realize her poseur-esque lifestyle of lies and such at the expense of her clique.  At last Jessica snaps and tells Bridget, Manda, and Sara what she really thinks of them.  She lets it all fly out into the open, no-holds barred.<br />And wow, is it hilarious!<br />You shall laugh and weep over bold and brazen Jessica Lynn Darling's misadventures, from the classroom to the Darling household.  The elements of the plot will compel you to read on - who wouldn't find Scotty, the hot jock who pines for Jessica, irresistable?  Who wouldn't roll their eyes in annoyance over shallow sis Bethany and her marriage to wealthy Grant, a.k.a. G-Money?  And who wouldn't swoon themselves over Marcus Flutie, the hot &quot;Dreg&quot; who is winning Jessica's heart?  You'll relate to Mr. Darling and Jessica's relationship - his expectations for his daughter, brainy and quick in track, are high, higher than Mrs. Darling's.  She's too busy with Bethany's wedding. ::eye roll::<br />Weaved into the plot is amusement, laughter and tears.  This novel is oh-so thought-provoking, relatable, and wonderful, plus it rings true with the authentic sort of teenage voice not always seen in today's YA lit.  And never have I found it to be present to such a degree that I found my very own teenage heroine!  Either you are amidst Jessica's world or you will be able to recall, fondly or not, your days of high school and teenage turmoil.  It is not a light read at all - it's lengthy and I was glad for that, because I never wanted this book to end.  Thank God for the sequel!	2004-06-10
US	17899762	R1V6YB3HS9QHUZ	0142400017	521601309	Catalyst	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Reality vs. Denial	Kate Malone is ranked 3rd in her high school class and has had dreams of attending MIT, her dead mother's alma mater.  After being deferred early decision, she applies regularly.  And to her utter shock and dismay, she receives the thin envelope.<br />Ouch.<br />It doesn't help matters that her boyfriend, Mitchell Pangborn, has been accepted early decision to Harvard.  Sarah, her best friend, is off to Bryn Mawr (OT, but I live right near Bryn Mawr College!!!).  While they know where they'll be next year, Kate does not.  It's a secret, but she didn't apply to Syracuse and Drexel, her safeties.  At first, she thinks there must be some mistake.  How could she have been rejected with her grades?  Her mother did go there, after all.  She can't face it.  It can't be the truth, can it?<br />It is.  Pretending to be her mother, she phones MIT to appeal her rejection and finds that she doesn't have the \\"oomph\\" of the chosen ones, despite being very bright.  And her writing skills \\"could use some work.\\" :(<br />Mr. Malone, Kate's father, is a preacher, a doer of good deeds.  This urge of wanting to always to the right thing is the main reason why the Hatchers have moved in, meaning Teri Hatcher, her son, and her mother, Mrs. Hatcher.  Teri is a student at Kate's school and also happens to be an enemy - she bullied Kate when the two were younger and is known as a school bully.  A cafeteria scenario in which jocks choose to egg her on turns into a huge gang brawl.  Teri both cries and causes tears.  This is prior to the fire that partially wrecks her home.  That's why Mr. Malone invites her to live with them temporarily.  Kate shudders at the thought of Teri, who has stolen a necklace Mitch gave her, plus a watch.<br />Kate learns to cope with rejection.  An unexpected friendship blossoms and she realizes that although things do not always go according to plan, she'll move on from the letdowns.<br />Good character depth and nicely assembled plot, although there were some slowmoments.  Anderson has created a book where things aren't perfect and ideal in the protagonist's world, and I think that is what adolescents need to read about.  It can either serve as an escape from their problems or help them deal with their own issues.  Or they can relate.  Either way, this novel is enjoyable.	2004-06-10
US	17899762	RLQXHME0I232C	0142300675	86018573	Dreamland	Books	5	53	55	N	N	Through the eyes of the victim	Caitlin O'Koren already must deal with the fact that her sister, Cass, who is supposed to be at Yale soon, has run away.  And, for all she and her parents know, Cass may never return.  To Caitlin's shock, she is a staff member on the Lamont Whipper show, a fictional Jerry Springer type talk show.<br />Enter Rogerson Biscoe, a dreadlocked hunk who takes Caitlin's mind off of her family's ordeal.  He is able to perfectly fill the void Cass left behind.  His lifestyle of smoking and partying is wild, something new and exciting to Caitlin.  That's why when he pulls her into his world, she doesn't hesitate to come along for the ride.  As she gets deeper and deeper into the relationship, she comes to understand Rogerson is bruised and badly broken, both in the literal and figurative sense.  He has a father who hits him and to heal his own pain, he begins taking his anger out on Caitlin.<br />Soon, Caitlin changes, switching gears altogether.  She used to be a B student, a cheerleader, and a loyal best friend to Rina, who is fiercely loyal in return.  Now, she incessantly blows Rina off when she tries to make plans, she's quit cheerleading, she's become withdrawn, she's smoking weed, taking Rogerson's beatings, and plummeting further and further into the abyss.   Those who try to reach out, friends, family, and worried peers, have no success.  It's as if there is a wall between Caitlin and the rest of the world.  Really, there is.  That wall is her dreamland.<br />Dessen's best novel to date is realistic and totally believable.  When people question why victims choose not to escape their relationship abuse, they don't always understand things can't be so easy.  Dessen also demonstrates the driving forces in one's life that can cause a person to lose their grip on reality, as well as their sense of security.  DREAMLAND is more than a mere YA novel.  It's about a horrid thing that actually happens to thousands of teenage girls today.	2004-06-10
US	17899762	R2KIHDLCYSKC9A	0142501557	976305277	This Lullaby	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A cynic changes course	Remy has absolutely NO reason to believe in love.  And if you were in her shoes, you'd certainly understand why.  Her mother incessantly divorces, remarries, redivorces...  She has no father figure.  All she knows is that he became a one hit wonder, all because of a melody he wrote expressly for her called \\"This Lullaby.\\"  One of the lines says, \\"I will let you down,\\" and has Remy wondering what sort of father would say such a thing.<br />Remy is the ultimate cynic.  She goes through relationship after relationship, dumping and never getting dumped.  She does not want to feel the hurt love can bring or the pain of the end of a relationship, for that matter.   Her goal is to get off the hook, free of pain and any type of emotion at all.  Up till now, she's been doing this successfully.<br />Then Remy meets Dexter, a musician just like her father.  He's everything Remy loathes: messy, unorganized, and...for God's sake, A MUSICIAN.  They can't possibly fall in love but Remy sees him as material for a casual summer fling.  Still, Dexter wants more.  His quirks make him all the more enjoyable.  Even Remy's bitchiness doesn't irk me much - the girl's got her reasons for shutting all potential lovers out of the picture.  But as things progress with Dexter, he opens her eyes and makes her see that taking risks is really a part of life that makes people who they become in the end - brazen or not, a life without risks is, in a word, boring.  But does Remy want to take risks for love?<br />Read and see.<br />Dessen, a favorite YA author of mine, has successfully captured the mind of a cynic in a novel that is both witty and satisfyingly enjoyable.  You'll come to gradually understand Remy's lack of relationship security and that although she may seem hostile, events of the past, her mother's marriages and father's absence included in the equation, have affected her.  Although THIS LULLABY tackles a lighter subject than its predecessor, DREAMLAND, it is far from bubbly teenagefroth.  This novel will always remain a favorite for me and ring true, no matter how many times I read it.  Hope it's the same way for you.	2004-06-10
US	17899762	RLESR7T4ULG9M	0689857705	161188863	Rainbow Boys	Books	4	15	15	N	N	Hardships and hurdles of homosexuality	Sanchez's novel chronicles three gay high school boys.  One is out, proud, and totally a flamer.  One, his best friend, is still in the closet.  Another, with a steady girlfriend, has just come to the realization and is trying his best to understand - and hide, in a way, this new discovery.  <br />Nelson is the flamer.  With a trillion earrings, crazy hair, and a love for fashion, he sees no need to keep his secret.  He's been out and has many friends and people who like him despite this.  And why isn't he likeable?  He's a loyal friend, a wonderful listener, and can provide his best friend, Kyle, with good advice and a shoulder to cry on.<br />Kyle is gay but has yet to announce it to the world.  Nonetheless, he's known the truth since an early age.  People do expect he is a homosexual because he always hangs around with Nelson.  Their friendship is incredibly strong.  Kyle's parents are loving and supportive - at first only his mother seems to be, but his father does eventually come around once Kyle gives them the news.  Nelson wants to be more than just friends but Kyle only has eyes for Jason.<br />Jason is a jock with a beautiful girlfriend named Debra.  They've been going steady for two years and even have had sex.  So he can't be gay, can he?  Well...he tries, like some may, to deny and supress the thought, tries to dismiss it from his mind.  But when he makes love to Debra, he pictures men.  He dreams of naked men.  He thinks of Kyle.  With an alcoholic father who constantly calls him weak, home life is sometimes an obstacle.  It is difficult for Jason to muster the courage to tell Debra but when he does, her reaction is normal.  After all, she does love him.<br />Sanchez's novel is real.  When the two boys finally come out of the closet, family and friend reactions are totally understandable, apt to happen in those situations.  Sanchez's ability to convey character depth and meaning are incredible and make this novel what it is.  You'll enjoy this book whether you happen to be straight, gay, or bisexual.  And, to be frank, it really opened my eyes.  Although I choose to be straight, it helped me realize that love between same sexes can be just as real, just as true.  I'm looking forward to reading the sequel.	2004-06-10
