US	17968265	R27DODZ4LFWB9K	0252014170	547461521	Mormonism: The Story of a New Religious Tradition	Books	5	8	11	N	N	Appreciated insight	Jan Shipps, this remarkable LDS-ologist, was the one who wrote the beautiful essay about Joseph Smith, \\"The prophet puzzle\\". She is the type of scholar that has never been ready to \\"give up\\" and accept one isolated single perspective on LDS history, not then, not now. She is the one of eternal limit cross-over and the \\"multi-scholar\\", which likes to wove together the different views on history, religion and philosophy and illuminate the LDS from several aspects, which brings dialogue and respect, not hatred and contempt.    She is the one with the thesis, antithesis and synthesis, which is a common feature of this book. In the seven chapters, she philosophises about the origins of LDS, its development, its changes, its historiographical tradition, its view of the sacred and profane, and its relation to Amerian culture and Christian religion.    One of the reviews below, remarks on the non-polemical asepct of the book. I agree to 10 percent, cause the book is diplomatically polemical. Every issue it brings up, is clarified. The two-side-story of Joseph is mentioned by her, the redaction of Joseph's mother, Lucy's autobiography is tackled in one chapter. Of course, the reader won't find any tannerisms (anti-LDS expressions) in the book. It is not to create hatred, to denounce, but to lift up and inform the reader about this rich tradition who has changed the life of millions of people in both ways - more godly, or more atheistic, but changed!    The book shows that it is inherent in every religious body to forget inconveniences in the past, to create a whole present and marvelous future. It happened to Christianity, and it happened to LDS. The only difference is that LDS had more paperwork left from its origins than Christianity.    She handles the time issue, the pioneer period and modern period in a healthy thought-evoking way. She shows why LDS lived in another way and why they changed - mainly of the pressure from federal government and the Manifesto endig pluralmarriage in this life. Both forced the church of pioneer era to accomodate to the world and to make spirituality more esoteric (ie inner-focused), thru temple rituals and Word of wisdom (dietary codes).    Implicitly, I believe, that she wants to say: it doesn't matter how many contradictions one can find in Joseph's theology, what matters is what and why the church chose to believe a specific version.    Thank you for a wonderful insight about LDS!	2005-10-07
US	17968265	R147VLM527AXRO	1400045940	511097220	Jesus and the Lost Goddess: The Secret Teachings of the Original Christians	Books	4	15	23	N	N	Enigmatic and brain twisting	THIS IS A BOOK one should read several times, because the world that is introduced for the reader is enigmatic and in some way complicated. The book is easy to read and I have to applaud the authors for the thorough reconstruction of ancient material from Christian Gnostic tradition, their immense holistic perspective on this material - whose interconnectedness is like a spider web - and their pedagogical examples.    THE AUTHORS TRY TO EXPLAIN how Jesus was understood by the Gnostic Christians and here they rely on both New Testament books and other extra-biblical books, which were used by the Gnostic tradition as their holy scriptures.    IN THE FIRST BOOK, THE JESUS MYSTERIES, the authors introduced for me the world of anitquities, where Christianity was one among many other mystery religions and in this book, I am informed about the theology of the Gnostic Christians, who for the authors are the actual Christians and the prima interpreters of the Christian teachings. According to the authors the religions of the world have two groups, the literalists and the gnostics. The first ones treats everything in the scriptures as fact and the second ones, as an allegory for reaching deeper insgiht. According to the authors the Gnostic tradition went beyond cosmetic differences, such as the name of the saviour, the process of creation and number of gods and instead focused on rituals and allegories in order to help the individuals to find their inner selves, their real selves, which were believed to be a part of a great ocean of Consiousness or Nirvana.    THE JESUS STORY BECOMES therefore not a historical overview of a learned godman but a key to the understanding of us, who all are godmen and godwomen, connected to each other thru our innermost godly selves. Pity though we cannot see thru this veil, cause we are obsessed with what we think we are, what the world is and those around us. The role of Jesus was to teach us about the self, to look at him as our perfect selves and not to adore him as the perfect one.    THE AUTHORS HAVEN'T AN EASY CASE, cause the world of today cannot see thru the Gnostic texts and understand them directly, especially when their language and allegories can be provoking for Christians who see Jesus as the perfect godman. But this is also a way of understandig the Christians of those days.    THE THING THAT IS NEGATIVE ABOUT this book is its attitude towards the \\"literalists\\". They are right in their criticisms of organised religion and its actions against human rights, but what they miss again - as I stated in my review of their first book - is that as humans the way we chose to search for and understand divinity cannot be the \\"right\\" interpretation by any standards, besides the burning feeling in our hearts! For the authors the majority of Christians are \\"fooled\\" not knowing the Gnostic interpretation. The way of picturing the Gnostics as peace-lovers and literalists as blood-thirsty warriors is too simplistic for an academic piece, which make the book a popular history novel about ancient Christians.    THE RADICALITY OF THEIR MESSAGE - ie wake up foolish literalist Christians - cannot easily be welcomed in the corridors of power like Vatican or Salt Lake City. Do believe me I am myself Liberal Christian! Their book contains some insulting comments, which would be common for conservative Christian fundamentalists rather than liberal spiritualists as the authors themselves.    THE AUTHORS HAVE TO ACCPET the dimension that literalist Christianity have had and has a deep impact on the spirituality of many persons and that these have found their inner selves through it, one of them my dear priest Eva in Lutheran Church of Sweden. I respect the Gnostic view of Christ and self-knowledge and also the literalist view of Christ and salvation - and I am sure that both can lead humankind to find its inner self - as can every other religion free from bigotry.	2005-09-27
US	17968265	R22XE8I2TOIX9Q	0060663723	848970811	Mormon America: The Power and the Promise	Books	4	7	11	N	N	Detailed, capturing and holistic	These types of books are refreshing. They have the same tone and nuance as Signature books. They don't want take sides nor advocate a special standpoint, even though the book measures the LDS to the post-modern era of our time, where everything from gender to sexuality is discussed and challenged.    The authors have accomplished a great task in illuminating the hundred and so aspects of LDS. In 22 chapters, they have evoked every issue in LDS since its beginnings in Palmyra in 1820s. It is clear for me how they have used both academic and church sources in giving both sides of the story. For example, in the diplomatic way, they emphasise that Joseph according to his 1838 version of his First vision saw this and that, so they are implicitly saying that there are several versions. Clever! Actually they go even thru one of these versions in their chapter about LDS theology.    The authors try to cover what the LDS of today is like and why it is so attractive or fascinating? The style of writing is so journalistic, it is twisting and has sometimes long phrases with lot of decorative remarks, that only the learned eye in the LDS-philic world can capture, for example,  the Book of Mormon-enigma is captured in this very funny way.    \\" 'Were there really gold plates and ministering angels, or was there just Joseph Smith seated at a table with his face in a hat dictating to a scribe a fictional account of the ancient inhabitants of the Americas?' Resolving that problem haunts loyal Mormons.\\" (p. 259)    The introduction and the epilogue (chapter 22), all, frames the diversity of the modern LDS  movement: its Tabernacle Choir, its university in Provo, its sister-church in Missouri (Community of Christ), its holy books, its strong family life and of course every chapter is devoted to these special \\"peculiar\\" features of this very mostly American religion.    The authors do have a preference for quantity: financial figures, member figures, number of meeting houses and temples, public persons etc, like if size matters! The book - as its title - focuses on the Americanhood of LDS and besides the international organisation of the church, nothing is mentioned about other countries.     It took a long time, especially for a feminist like me, to come to the chapter (no 21) about dissenters, where women's issues and gay/lesbian issues were mentioned. I had expected a bit of criticism in the chapter about families. The authors just mentioned that LDS have typical traditional gender roles; a small criticism would have been enough.    I found the book very enriching, it is highly updated and is a good guide in the LDS world today. I loved the chapter about other churches in the LDS, especially my favourite, Community of Christ (former RLDS).    The reader gets acquainted with how the LDS pray, how they go to mission, how the church power is consolidated and also a fairly objective summary of its history. Of course, the Tanners and FARMS are in it too.    The book is a must, if one is not so acquainted of LDS and books such as these are rare, the latest are from 1970s! Just lovely!	2005-09-24
US	17968265	R1QEZS5C404D9S	0679730540	783796428	No Man Knows My History: The Life of Joseph Smith	Books	5	22	42	N	N	No man knows ... but Fawn did!	I am more than happy to have read this book in the middle of my LDS-philic book hysteria and during the bicentennial celebration of Joseph's year of birth. As you can see from my other reviews,  I have read Signature books a lot and would like to recommend theirs \\"The prophet puzzle\\" and \\"Making of a prophet\\". In these books several new aspects of Joseph Smith Jr are described and his rather multifaceted profile is acknowledged.    Fawn can easily be misunderstood depending on the ideological stand of the reader. I for example found Hugh Nibley review/criticism of her book disgusting. Hugh Nibely, whose scholarship I admire and find amazing, has written an awful attacking review, \\"No ma'm, that's not history\\". In some way, critics (mostly conservative LDS but also scholars in autobiography) has seen her book as an effort to prove her own understanding of Joseph. If she wanted to prove that he was false, than she was subjective enough to chose the sources she wanred. Of course, every biographer has to do some filling in of details. When Fawn writes about how Joseph thought or felt in some situations, she guesses of course, but there is always a novellist in the historian and especially in Fawn, with her beautiful literary style. The book should be read as a historical novel, rather than a footnote-stuffed diary encyclopedia - by the way, it has footnotes.!    I believe, from what I have read about Joseph and from Joseph, that Fawn hasn't at all exagerated her sources or manipulated them. What she has done, is not believing that Joseph wanted to be a prophet. She clearly shows a knowledge of how to handle different sources. The way she has gathered all the newspaper articles or read all the affadivits, good or bad, shows that she has wanted to give an optimally correct picture of Joseph. Many scholars have agreed about her evolutionary view of Joseph and that Joseph was a child of his time.    I believe - being a scholar myself - that Joseph full heartedly wanted to be a prophet and he also became one, for himself and for others! He wanted a united Christianity, a more powerful Christianity. I don't agree with Fawn about him wanting to magnifying himself thru religion, no, he could have managed well, by becoming a politician - which he also tried. I see in Joseph a boy with a spiritual mind.    At the same time, she is right about Joseph being the one behind the revelation. He was sure about the fact that his feelings were the same as god's. Brodie managed to refute the Spauldig theory about the origins of Book of Mormon and also the epilepsy diagnosis of Joseph. She introduced the View of the Hebrew as a plausbile source to Book of Mormon, something which BH Robert, the great LDS historian, also had noticed some 10 years before (1930s). She has managed to create a whole person - but too paradoxal, I had a difficulty to understand Joseph thru her.    Joseph becomes the one that smoked and drank, but also the one who healed, who cried and suffered with his people. The one who went from woman to woman, but kept in the centre of his heart, Emma, his first wife. The one who was afraid of dying, but who knew that the end was near. Capturing this personality is not easy and Fawn has done an excellent job. But there are answers still to come about this remarkable man.    Fawn shows thru her book, that Joseph was a human, not a prophet, but a strategic master in folklore, religion and charistamic leadership. For her, he was a strategic deciever - still in 1971 she couldn't udnerstand why Joseph chose religion for achieving his leadership dreams.    Even though Fawn wanted to see an irreligious Joseph behind the \\"Thus saith the Lord\\", she has for me confirmed my picture of a highly spriritual Joseph.	2005-09-23
US	17968265	R8VGZ5HD1N3O	1560851694	176977574	Baha'i: Studies in Contemporary Religion (Studies in Contemporary Religions, 5)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Holistic, empirical and objective	It is very seldom that so many faces of a religious movement can be captured in some 80 pages (footnotes included).  Margit Warburg, associate professor in the sociology of religion at Copenhagen, Denmark, has succeeded in giving a detailed overview of the Baha'i history, doctrine, worship and organisation.     The Baha'i religion has a more universal touch than any other religion in the world today. It is also one of the more liberal religious movements of our day, which since its beginning regarded gender equality a god-given rule, something many religions have had to add to their doctrinal fundaments, yes, even my Lutheran church! At the same time, Warburg is clear about some more restricting nuances of the religion, cause as every religious phenomenon, Baha'i see some exclusiveness in their faith.    The book is divided in five chapters, where the first one being an introduction. The second is about the history of Baha'i, when it was established in 19th century Iran till today. The third is about the doctrine, rituals and ceremonies of the Baha'i. The fourth is a description of the different Baha'i sites in the world (the temples and the Haifa dome) and also about how Baha'i mission looks like - even if it passes unnoticed! The book ends with the fifth chapter, about schisms during Baha'i history, the persecution of Iranian Baha'i and the internal disputes in modern Baha'i, where Warburg evokes the question of academic freedom.    What is exemplary about this book, is its thorough overview and very easy-read style. Warburg has done several studies and inquiries during her 20 years of research about Baha'i, which are referred to in the book, like how many Baha'i do actually fast, if there is any difference between Iranian Baha'i (Baha'i was established in Iran) and Western Baha'i etc. She explains and goes thru almost every perspective of Baha'i expression of faith and show that with each new Baha'i leader or re-organisation there were some opposing fractions, which either continue till today or have vanished. She even describe how the Baha'i services are hold. The services - besides those in the temple - are not open to public (but one nice Baha'i let me in once ...!) It seems that the central government of the Baha'i religion is not totally open about academic freedom, something that is a pity for a tolerant religion like Baha'i; it is not uncommon that many Baha'i marry according to other religion's ceremonies!     I am looking forward to read about the other books in this series, \\"Studies in contemporary religion\\", such as Hare Krishna and The Church of Scientology. I highly recommend the book about Baha'i, they are an anonymous feature of our society because they assimilate and want to work with world peace, something that many religions profess doing but never do. This book is far much better than consulting pro- or anti-Baha'i / cult pages cause here it is a scholar writing and discussing the Baha'i with an objective and thorough eye! One should applaud these types of books, cause these can create and facilitate the dialogue between religions.	2005-09-04
US	17968265	RO3S4EBJ6206G	1857925068	685473958	Fearless Love: Understanding Today's Jehovah's Witnesses	Books	1	3	15	N	N	With all due respect, but no	I bought the book because of the title \\"fearless love\\" and \\"today's\\" Jehovah's witnesses (JW), because I have a great respect for this denomination and wanted to update myself on their current situation. I chose the book because of the title,     And I became disappointed when reading it. The author is an ex-JW and not a scholar. She is seeing her past and her relation to the religion from her new-born faith. It is a small book and easy to read. As a Liberal Christian I don't believe that there is only one truth.    Christianity has different \\"-isms\\" and JW are one which don't believe in trinity (unitarian) and which believe that the end of the world is near (millenierist)... Of course, they also see themselves as the only witnesses of truth in the last days.    The author, Anne Sanderson, evaluate the JW against a \\"truth\\" that she has acquired thru her new faith, which is the usual one: trust in Jesus and everything will be all right. She believes that every JW has to find this truth. She gives some insight in the \\"world\\" of the JW and thru to her methodology of citing different Wathtowers (the confessional magazine of JW) and bible verses, she proves that her new-born faith is more true. She gives some suggestions to other \\"real\\" Christians to how to deal with JW - with love and care, thereby the title of the book. She acknowledges that Christians are not behaving well when meeting JW.    Even though I got acquainted with certain new trends in JW, such as the weakening of the importance of the year 1914, the theology of salvation and the role of holy spirit, I ddin't like the book. It was not a scholarly book - but a propaganda book. Sanderson don't appreciate the changes in JW doctrine - but every religious movement has changed, today, the Chruch of England don't believe in hell and the Vatican accepts evolution!    However, I don't agree with the theocratic organisation of the JW, it would be good if there would be more different views represented in the organisations, the women could be elders or overseers, that gays and lesbians could be accpeted without being \\"converted\\" and that the new research on the bible could be used more often. I am definitely against the policy of blood transfusion, which I think JW should change today, how holy it may be.	2005-08-17
US	17968265	R3CXS4I8J3B9SC	1560850507	517351354	Multiply and Replenish: Mormon Essays on Sex and Family (Essays on Mormonism Series)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	LDS needs to change ... Period!	The 13 essays + 1 epilgoue are important reflections and descriptions of early and contemporary LDS attitudes and behaviour towards sexuality. The book encompasses everything in us humans, our sexual orientation, our desires, our gender idenity (being male, transgendered, female) our partners or lack of partners and the way we relate to ethical issues such as abortion, in vitro insemination etc.    There are famous authors of LDS history who have written some of the essays, Foster, Hansen and England. The essays written by Foster and Hansen deals a lot with family and marriage. Here the origins and the mechanisms of polygamy are studied. England's essay is only about polygamy and the afterlife, cause after 1890 manifesto abolishing the practice, the belief about polygamy being a high order of marriage and highly prevalent in the after life is still a part of LDS belief system. England shows first why this practice was established by god and why it is illogical to believe in a polygamic life style after death. All three essays gives the reader an insight in why LDS came to focus on nuclear patriarchal family structure, which makes it as conservative as the Charismatics, J. Witnesses and the Catholics.    Two essays are statistical and \\"inquirish\\". They are studies about the demography (marital status, skin colour, education) of Utah and non-LDS states, written by Heaton and about Utah students' attitudes towards sex and reproduction compared again to non-Utah-LDS groups, by Rytting. An interesting result, which only confirms what the layman can deduce easily: that LDS are more conservative about sex! The answers from men and women are worth noting.    O'Donovan, Oswald and Raynes & Parson go thru the \\"taboo\\" issues of LDS, which could be related to any denomination, be it Christian or Hindu. O'Donovan takes up the issue of gay and lesbians in LDS since the Nauvoo period! It is so funny to read about lives of gays and lesbians in second half of 19th century, how theymet, dated and how - sadly enough - LDS handled the persons. Just an example, how a women falling in love with another, makes her the second wife of her own husband and how Bennet - a close companion of the prophet - had liasons with men and women. At the same time, one is appalled by how LDS church treats gays and lesbians and one can only hope that they can get help in this process. It is funny - gays and lesbians constitute between 10-15 per cent of the society and they are treated like psyhos when the real danger to our democratic society comes from terrorists, drug dealers and rapists! However, the other essays deal with divorcees and bachelors. Of course it is not easy to be bachelor or divorcee when LDS marry at a young age and when family is seen as the primal entity of the religion and not the individual itself.    Keller's essay about when we become women and men highlights how spiritual doctrine is not always compatible with biology or environmental influences. I regard evolution as a fact and it is peculiar how religious people try to fit their model into a world, which is not governed by spirits or supernatural forces, but by random, natural selection, genes etc. In the same field, the essay written by Bush, discusses the attitudes of LDS since its beginning towards medicine and doctors, abortion, prevention and try to see how LDS would relate to the reproductive technology of today. Very briefly, LDS, is not totally clear about any issues.    The thirteenth essay is a sort of a chronicle about obscene language and erotica and how it could be empowering. I found it hilarious and I think literature should be read and regardless of your religion, even naughty stuff could be inspiring.    As always, Signature compilations end with an epilogue, this time written by Richards on LDS view of home. Makes you think!    It is important that reflective essays are written about this issue. Somehow LDS is embarrassed by this issue, which they shouldn't. At the sametime I respect the way the LDS wants to relate to sexuality and reproduction, however I don't agree with them. Thank you Signature for this insight and hopefully in some five hundred years, the LDS has changed because of the research done in these fields.	2005-07-31
US	17968265	R2BH7NQOBEVA85	0060675578	645102118	Liberating the Gospels: Reading the Bible with Jewish Eyes	Books	4	10	12	N	N	Empowering but paradoxical	Spong is just hilarious, he is inspiring, empowering, lovely; you just keep reading and miss the lunch or miss going off the train ... cause Spong aims at understanding on a neutral basis what Jesus was for the first Christians and how their view can help to make sense of Jesus in our modern world. So the saying, about how you put the questions, will give you the right answers, goes like a red thread thru this book. The question is: why did the first Christians find these sequences of Jesus' life worth noting and not - did it really happen?    Spong - inspired by other authors - dives in the gospels - specifically Marc, Matthew and Luke and into the foundational stories, the birth, the death and the resurrection of Jesus. His hypothesis is that one cannot isolate these writings from their historical and societal context. The writings are inspired by Jewish writing techniques, the most prevalent, being the midrashic one. One example - not mentioned in the book - is the story of Abram and Sarai and the story of Isaac and Rebecka. Compare Genesis 12 and 26.  Two identical stories but with some minor differences. The gospel writers used the same technique in order to give a message to the first congregations of Christians. So it can be so that none of the Jesus episodes has any historical basis, but is derived mainly from the Jewish bible and altered to fit into the new Christian context.    I will not go into detail about the examples that Spong gives, cause it is difficult to retell what Spong tries to express. For a conservatice Chrisitan the idea of unhistoricity of any Jesus' episode would be regarded as heresy, but the arguments of Spong, are on a spiritual level and faith-promoting not faith-destroying.     Spong relates the gospel writing to the Jewish almanac and sees a clear connection between the segments read from the Jewish bible and the episodes of Jesus' life. The first Christians needed to find an equivalence to the major events of Jewish almanac, such as Pesach, Pentacost in order to praise the Christian god and Jesus. The gospels became a practical tool for the first community to consolidate the new-born faith.    Do put in mind that Spong's model can be integrated with other models about the historical Jesus or the gospel writers, such as the writers of \\"The Jesus mysteries\\", who see a lot of parallels between the gospels and the Gnostic mysteries. These do not believe in a historical Jesus at all, Spong does.    The gospel composers were children of their time and were influenced by the attitudes and the stories of those times. Something has influenced the first Christians to have a centre figure in their cult. Today Christianity is so different that comparison between the 1st century would be impossible. There has been experiments by some denominations to go back to primal Christian time, but how they try, they will not be successful, cause we happen to understand the bible as we do today, and not as its composers did.    Spong shows this very clearly and I am glad about it. I regard myself as a Christian who see a meaning in the Christian community and its symbols rather than its confessions and dogma. It is wonderful to have read the book, of course there are much more in the book, among others the birth and the ressurection story.     One thing that bothered me with Spong is that: if every episode in the gospels are midrashic, than who or what is Jesus? What can be attributed to him? He goes on speculating about how wonderful he was and inspiring etc but isn't Spong relying IMPLICITLY on the gospels again, when about nothing in them is historical? The only historical I could say after reading the book was that a man was born by a father and a mother in Israel and died. Nothing else can be said about him. I don't know how Spong accepts that this man's name was Jesus, cause even the name could be a midrashic make-up relating to Joshua or Esau! In total, 4 stars and a nice smile!	2005-07-31
US	17968265	R3LASI7XTDVM3W	0967686563	86124043	The Book of Mormon: Another Testament of Jesus Christ (Official Edition)	Books	5	7	19	N	N	A book about the Christian Messiah	The Book of Mormon (BoM) is an interesting book. It is like the most religious books, filled with intricate stories and exotic names. One is amazed by its view of the world, struck by its strong personalities, sad by its interpretation of the human nature and wishful about its hope for us humans.    BoM contains 14 different \\"books\\", bearing the author's name. According to BoM itself and its preface, these \\"books\\" are really 14 parts of three different ancient goldish plats, which in turn are summaries of several other plates. These summaries have been made by a redactor, the 4th century CE soldier/prophet Mormon and his son, Moroni.    In all, BoM tells the story of three different families with friends (between 20-40 people) who leave Middle East in different periods of time and at god's command head for America. The majority of the book is about the second colony which leaves for America in 600 BCE. This colony suffers by frictions between older and younger brothers, frictions that are cemented into the offspring, leading to the separation and the establishment of two people: the ligh-skinned Nephites and the dark-skinned Lamanites. During their lifetime, they meet the third colony, Mulekites and find the remnants of the first colony - a great civilisation called the Jaredites. The wars descripted are not that child friendly. The different migrated groups become very blood thirsty in their fights, but somehow god seems to take sides in these bloody wars - and help the good ones.     We never know where all the action takes place, but are given lots of names of cities, lands and rivers, so it could be every where or some where in America. I think that it must be a restricted area in America, because everybody gets to meet everybody in some odd way.    The colonies described develop the same evil tendencies:  - they become rich and start to boast,  - they cling to beliefs such as god is forgivable and will save every body regardless if they regret or not, or that there is only one god and that he has no children,  - they establish secret societies, \\"robber bands\\" which creates anarchy, because these robbers communicate thru secret oaths and signs etc and therefore undermine stability and rule of law,  - they deny miracles, ministering by angels and the holy spirit  - they become strong selfish individuals  - they mock god and the prophets.    The pictures I get from BoM is diverse. According to its story, the Lamanites could be plausible ancestors of some Indian tribes in America. One reason for believing this is that the Lamanites are described in the same way the Indians were described by European: that they are in a devilish statem savages and cannibalists. I totally reject this view of Indians, and do not find the description of Lamanites objective.    The language of Book of Mormon (BoM) is oldish. There are lots of \\"knoweth\\" and \\"ye\\". There are too much repetitions of verbs, phrases and expressions, that makes you bored, like \\"or in other words\\", \\"and it came to pass\\", \\"for behold\\".    Everything in BoM is just like the bible an either-or: either you follow a straight path and come to paradise or several wrong paths and go to hell. There is a clear picture of dual ending, which one can notice in every religion.    There are not many women mentioned in the book: only three women are named (five if you count Jesus' mother Mary and Eve, the foremother). God talks always to men, they are always kings, rulers, judges, priests etc. They are always given what they asked. This view of women is different from mine - every era had had its own. However, the story the prophetess, Akish and the faithful queen (anonymous) are wonderful.    I recognised many wordings from the bible scriptures, but they have been evolved in some way, there are modified and sound different, you know, they have an American touch for a European like me, for example: New Jerusalem will be built in America, \\"the house of Jacob or Israel\\" is referred to theIndians, \\"the Gentiles\\", to the Americans and of course, the climax in the middle for the book: Jesus' visit to America! Besides this, Moses is mentioned a lot and Isaiah is overquoted!    The Christian Messiah is the focus of the book - BoM people believe in him both before his coming and after. Whatever the people do, they bear his name. Even though I do not believe in a historic Jesus, I found a strong, powerful, meek and glorified Jesus in BoM, one that is proud of having been crucified and proud of having saved the world. He is not the agonised Jesus of Getsemane. He is as maybe many Christians expect him to be, when he comes back again - powerful and almighty, read III Nephi!    The fact that BoM supports a Jesus that is supposed to be historical and gives him qualities that he could only have acquired when New Testament was written, makes the book a religious thesis, rather than a historical overview of ancient American Christians.    The preface contains the coming forth of Book of Mormon and its editing by the young Joseph Smith, prophet for more than 150 BoM-believing groups in US. Thru revelation, he found the plates, dug them up from a hill, Cumorah, and translated them using holy glasses \\"interpreters\\" by the power of god.    In BoM there are prophecies about the coming forth of BoM, where a man called Joseph will translate them. In BoM there are a lot of stories who are like Joseph's, especially Mormon's own story, where he digs up some plates in a hill called Shim - later Cumorah! Another prophet, king Mosiah used also holy glasses or interpreters to translate some other holy plates.    However, in it one finds an idealised Christianity - Jesus answers almost everything that he never did in New Testament, such the meaning of the communion, baptism of children etc. For me, as a liberal Christian, the BoM cements the literalist fundamentalistic view of Jesus and the bible. I am impressed by Joseph who wanted to revitalise Jesus for his own time and forus today. Even though he had to make up this wonderful story of plates, dug up in Cumorah in order to establish an ancient basis/proof for a real Christianity - he managed for people then and now to create a new framework of understanding. He made Jesus real thru BoM, thru his actions (besides polygamy!) and thru his utter confidence in god's role in America and the world. Thus, if the book makes a person come to the Christian Messiah, then Joseph has succeeded well.	2005-06-13
US	17968265	R1TV0JCIV826ME	0312950810	50210891	For the Love of a Child	Books	5	12	15	N	N	Other Betties	The second book published by Betty is also book worth reading.  It her first book \\"Not without my daughter\\" she writes about how she was tricked by her Iranian husband to visit Iran. She and her daughter are then forced to stay there for ever, fortunately by new-made friends and a strong fighting spirit, both flee Iran. <br /> <br />In this second book we get to know how Betty re-integrates into the American society after years of forced assimilation in Iran. The book is about her writing the first book, making the film, telling how she moved on and how she came in touch with other women and one man who also had their children kidnapped in foreign countries (mostly in North Africa/Middle East). Betty realises that her fight, her experience can help others and that she is not alone in being kidnapped and forced to accept a patriarchal system. Also, that her daughter has been lucky, to have her mother by her side during those awful year in Iran and also to have left Iran. <br /> <br />The different destinies of the mothers and the only father who Betty retell in her book, shows how fake some people can be, how unstable and it urges the reader to understand her/himself, in finding a way to avoid this void of harming people, making life a scary thriller where you'd better die that live it. These women and the only man that has their children kidnapped, who're been psychologically and physically abused, teaches us to not minimise cultural differences, not underestimate other relatives' influence in our lives and also to not be conquered by fear, `cause it is then you ready to give up. Some of the chapters of these women and the only man ends not so happy, maybe today they have found their children but who knows. <br /> <br />This book is warmly recommended and it shows that we humans are not alone in our most deepest anxieties or in our most lonely moments. <br />	2005-05-05
US	17968265	R70TLJRL1PYFE	0312925883	804599282	Not Without My Daughter: The Harrowing True Story of a Mother's Courage	Books	5	12	16	N	N	A human tragedy	Betty, happily married to an Iranian, Moody, is convinced by him to have a wonderful two-week-vacation in Iran, during the war! This happened in the early 80s when Iran had turned to an islamistic society. It is important to see the difference between islamic and islamistic, where the former is about the religion, the later about conservative hard-line fanatic politics blended with religion. The husband changes during his stay, he changes from a very Westernised man, open-minded, secular to a very islamistic one. Betty does pinpoint retrospectively that she had felt some signals coming from Moody even when living in US.    They have a daughter and the dictatorial decision by the husband to stay for ever in Iran - which Betty afterwards concludes never was supposed to be two-week-stay ... -  makes Betty's life even more difficult. Because their daughter has to live in a strong misogynic (anti-woman) society, where women are pushed back in the homes. All this is only a tiny bit of what Betty has to experience in a country. Moody abuses Betty physically and psychologially during her imprisonment in Iran.    Well of course, the book is not only about being kidnapped and forced to integrate into the society and the culture, it is also a fight for freedom, to find a way back home to US. The book emphasises the motherhood, thereby the title, but it is also a book about how human rights, women's rights, and how a 24-hours-flight can change everything you thought was natural: to speak up, to be independent, to work and earn your living, to have the same respect as your husband. Of course there are men who rape, kill, butcher and abuse women in our Western world, but nothing in our society legitimise it, only tradition and disgusting sayings like \\"a no is a yes ...\\" but nothing in our constitution or laws permit violence against women and children, nor men, in anyway -TODAY (not for 50 years ago though).    The style of the book is wonderful, you feel the atmosphere, the fear, the pain and this urge of just leaving everything and flee. I think if an Iranian would read it, s/he would feel a bit sad about how the people is pictured in the book, the adjectives used are very close to the way the Amerindians or the Afroamericans were pictured during the horrible years of slavery and persecutions. Maybe it is Betty's anger and pain against her former husband and his family that comes up, because not every Iranian is pictured like an animal. There are those who help Betty, who are westernised and secular. I don't mind it, it is a biography and I would not call it racist, rather prejorative. All Iranians are pictured as islamists.    Read it, cause it is important to see how people live in today's modern world. The book is about dictatorial states who base their regimes on religions, Spain did it as late as the 80s and Iran and some of the Middle Eastern countries do it today. But new tides come even in these countries - hopefully.	2005-05-05
US	17968265	R1XZU50KT326JS	0969978502	160587986	The Price of a Child: Four Years in the Hell of Child Prostitution in Bangkok	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Children have dignity not price	Why?, was the only thing that filled my mind while reading this book. Why? Because childhood is the most important and sensitive period of our lives. It is during this time that we learn to build our own identity, wishing to be astronauts or ballet dancers, finding out how snails and birds look like, but also unfortunately to be molested, abused, harassed! <br /> <br />The author has done her best to give an insight in the horrible child market of the Third World. Some men go on vacation to Thailand to rape children. Some these men - let's call them animals! - are fathers and doctors, architects and so on, are interviewed in the book. It is funny how these animals are legitimising their actions like \\"the childern are earning their living\\" or \\"we love children\\". Still, after having read this book in 1995, I remember that scene where the author meets the poor 4-year-old-girl, with cigarette marks on her genitalia. I can never in my life understand these animals and I hope that this book can show that there is no such thing as voluntary sex sale in these countries, nor for the children, nor for the women. These countries have such low socio-economic situation, that families cannot earn their living without forcing the children into the sex market. <br /> <br />The book vividly pictures these faces, puts name on them, shows the evil circle that exists only because there is a demand from abnormal animals, wolves, in the clothes of the sheeps. <br />The authors interviews police, doctors, paedophiles, the children and take action against some of the atrocities, like helping some of the children to find their way back home! Do notice how dangerous it was for the author to actually take measures against this market. <br /> <br />Reading this book, will enhance your knowledge and makes you suspicious towards anyone going to the sex market countries of the Third World, but of course, do remember, the paedophiles are those you never imagined!  <br /> <br />Merci Mme Botte!	2005-05-05
US	17968265	RXI60EGZ8O71W	0967673747	655450573	Princess: A True Story of Life Behind the Veil in Saudi Arab	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Queens in their hearts	Normally, prince and princess stories end happily, of course we learn that not every story in real life ends happily. Jean Sasson has given the world a view of how a very US-friendly country like Saudia Arabia, implements its women-apartheid in the 20th century. There are some winds of 1920s women movement blowing in Saudi and hopefully they will mix themselves with the desert tornados and give room for some change! <br /> <br />Sultana is born a princess and she is living in utter luxury, as her brothers and sisters, her relatives, but she notices very early that humans are treated differently depending on their genitals. We do have such tendency in the Western world, but of course the tendency is not regulated by the law, more by tradition, like it's women's fault geting raped! In Saudi Arabia the women are viewed differently in essence. They are either supposed to be virgins or whores, and we do recognise this duality in the Western world too, however, Sultana's (a pseudonym)first witness stories are so vivid, intense and horrible, that you are there, seeing the injustice in front of you on a screen. <br /> <br />What is a paradox, is that Sultana is \\"lucky\\" being rich, she can move from Saudi, she can see the difference of life styles, know what freedom is. But she can not escape the fact that she is FOREMOST a WOman. <br /> <br />Two horrible scenarios should be retold: the stoning, which some of us thought happened only in Jesus' time and some Christians want to re-implement ... and the Room, where your are locked up for ever. I won't go into details, but both of these are aimed towards women, cause according to the book, men cannot be sinners, they cannot sin,they are born sinless and can only be misled by women. Poor us men! <br /> <br />Sultana is fairly objective, cause she shows that it is the system in Saudi which is problematic, the Wahhabite tradition in Islam can be compared to the Bible belt in US, where fanatic men put an restricted agenda for how children, women, gays, lesbians etc should be to go to paradise. However, one is also striken by the double standard of some of the religious men - you can guess for yourself. <br /> <br />Sultana has done a brave thing, coming out and speaking out about the misery behind the jewels and the Gucci clothes. There are millions like Sultana and you get to hear one of them.'You won't feel lucky living in West, cause discrimination and injustice occurs even among us. In some Western countries people are not stoned, but injected to death, in some, wearing jeans and getting raped is not acknowledge as rape! and in some, you need to show bruises, extreme ones if not it's not a rape ... so there is a Sultana everywhere, the question: when will she be heard?	2005-05-05
US	17968265	R3EMBG92JKG4EB	1560850868	595699524	God the Mother: And Other Theological Essays	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Heavy and detailed - however empowering	I bought Allred's book because I miss writings by women in LDS and also because I have read about Allred and her excommunication (henceforth shortened excomm'tion). I thought that the book was a compilation by several authors (yes, I should have checked it more before buying it!) but it wasn't, and it was not at all disappointing. The book contains essays written by Allred both when in the church and outside. Reading them I could not understand why she was excomm'ed, maybe because I am not LDS, but she wasn't the kind of \\"apostate\\" which has denounced the truths of LDS. On the contrary, the whole book cites the teachings of the prophets, modern and ancient, mostly Joseph Smith. The book has lengthy quotes from Book of Mormon and Doctrine and Commandments. It has some quotes from non-LDS theologians, which fit into the context. This is a faith promoting book for anyone, being LDS or non. <br /> <br />What she does with every essay - I am not going thru them, cause 1) they should read ben not rendered 2) I have to read them once more - is to break up conventional understanding of concpets, such as orthodoxy, faith, doubt, god, equality, difference, women-/manhood etc. She does it very well in the first essay, the one about orthodoxy, which I felt so happy about. Her essays are so constructive, they are written in a welcoming way, whatever your religious colour maybe (ie conservative, liberal, atheist) you follow her reasoning and she is so careful not to be misunderstood. This is very good done, but I did get bored, when I read quote after quote, and especially when some essays like those about pride, feels so wordy - as Book of Mormon can be or a review by FARMS! - you get tired and want to come to the point. <br /> <br />However, she has to do it, because she is dealing with very sensitive issues! I am Swedish Lutheran, I have a female priest and bishop in the congregation and don't believe in virgin birth nor resurrection, but I am accepted just as I am, when my priest is just so conservative she can be.  The LDS church doesn't want - it seems - to be enrichened by its members, but being like the Zoramites of Book of Mormon, having enchanting melodies and liturgies adn dogmas .... (Book of Mormon, Alma 31:12 -24)  <br /> <br />Jane Allred has a positive view of theology, of faith and of creating a relationship to god without having it created. She is encouraging every one of us to go inside ourselves, look for the spirit of the words and not their literal dictionary definition - always following the teachings of the prophet, read for example Joseph Smith's King Folett speech which illumines this side and which Allred also quotes from. <br /> <br />Her effort to open a theology about God the Mother, which put her in an awkward position and finally got her excomm'ed, is brave. She uses a very strong symbolism in her argumentation and I felt reading the minutes of the council of Nicea, 325 AD/CE, when theologians tried to define trinity. The outcome of her essay is that we should distance ourselves from a male-influenced language and view of divinity. Because the LDS believe in a humanlike god-couple, it is easier to find Mother God in it. For me as protestant, who believes in a fuzzy sort of a divinity, gender doesn't matter, but language does. This is a very theological essay about woman-/manhood and divinity, I felt empowered as a man to read it. She has good points. <br /> <br />It is a pity that LDS couldn't embrace Allred among its 15 millions members. LDS history is filled with excomm'tions of very intelligent and god-loving people (besides Fawn Brodie :-) and what it shows is that there are a few among the council of seventy, the twelve apostles who are welcoming people like Allred, but in a consensus driven church it is not always easy. The church has changed, when David O McKay was president, being evolution-friendly or supporting open priesthood wasn't that fashionable, but he himself was a evolution-friend and a supporter of open priesthood. There are I believe men in these councils who have been touched by Mother God and her prophetess, Jane Allred. The question is when will they dare come out?  <br /> <br />Thank you Jane, I think that even though you are excomm'ed, the temple blessings, the faith and support of Mother and Father god has never left you and never will! <br />	2005-05-01
US	17968265	R1WRVMHF5NXCTD	0609807986	395300413	The Jesus Mysteries: Was the "Original Jesus" a Pagan God?	Books	5	4	10	N	N	A bit chilly but cool!	Whenever your start to read a book about Jesus and Christianity, one is prepared at a new wonderful thought-provoking perspective about this personality who still captures authors like Freke et al.    These authors have gathered and gone thru ancient texts, which illuminate the origins of Christianity in a new way. Their case is not only about informing the reader about the environment in which Christianity grew, but if or what if what was the seed to it, was totally diametracally different than how Catholicism and all its later denomniations became.    These are not the first who enter the field of Jesus research, supposing his non-existence, but the first who give a reason for him not being historical and also arguing for this reason, thru these forgotten ancient documents.     There is according to the authors and of course the researchers of Jesus history much resemblance between the Gnostic Christian view of Christ and salvation and the one that they call literalist, as in Catholic or Protestant. When the Gnostic tradition about Christ is compared to the religions around it, one is amazed by how alike Gnostic saviour is to these latter called \\"Pagan\\" religions. Christ is not viewed as being historical, but mythical and universal. Many events during the mystification of this mythical all-empowering saviour are retold in the biblical gospels, like the virgin birth, the crucifixion, the resurrection, the riding on the donkey etc.    These events of the Gnostic Christ gave an idea about whom we are and what we can become, thru reliving these event in rituals, in a three-step-initiation process. The actual meaning of these events were more deeper than the event itself. The actual meaning was also hidden from the rest of the society, who only could have access to a \\"public\\" version of these. For example, they read about Jesus riding on donkey and understood it as such, after the initiation, they would understand that the donkey was a symbol for our depraved self, being conquered by our perfect self Christ.    The authors build a case where Jesus is seen the Jewish equivalent in a Jewish gnostic tradition.  Somewhere in history this gnostic perspective is forgotten and the events are seen as historical and actual. This \\"somewhere\\" is the consolidation of Roman Christian power and the establishment of the Roman Catholic church and its denomination till today.    Even if the book is illuminating about this Jewish-Christian gnostic tradition and its understanding of Jesus, for me the understanding of the bible have to in the context of my 21st century. I can understand that much written about Jesus would be differently written if he had the cover-up that many famous people have of our days.    History has left us with one version and burned the rest and these authors restore those ancient documents, which shed some light on the beginning of Jesus story. Maybe it is time for the Christians of today to find another Jesus and spirituality beyond the literalism and facticity of the gospels.    It is a good initiative from the authors to revive this lost heritage and I feel great about the liberal tendencies in early Gnostic Christianity. But somewhere here the authors miss the point. Believers are not shaped in the same form not then in 1st century nor today. Even if the literalist Roman church deprived us from the actual truth by making Jesus and his story literal not symbolical should NOT matter today. What SHOULD matter is that our understanding of our religion can have the liberating efffect it had on Gnostics and Literalists of those day - but today.	2005-04-17
US	17968265	R1VEQ1UQVOONAH	0942284003	915091475	Divergent Paths of the Restoration: A History of the Latter Day Saint Movement	Books	5	10	10	N	N	A yellow pages of Restoration movement!	There is not so much to review when it comes to catalogues, I presume. Mr Shields have done an amazing job giving the reader and the interested in LDS an overview of all non-existent and still-existent (in the 1990s) Restoration denominations. Maybe you recognise the four more known branches, the LDS, Community of Christ (RLDS), Church of Christ Temple Lot and Church of Christ with Elijah message. Here you get to read about the other 100 or so.<br /><br />Some of these don't exist anymore, they go back during the time of the prophet. This is an interesting detail, cause one always hears about how every body went his/her (most his) way after the murder of Joseph Smith, but there were already several when he lived. Of course the most famous are those who published the Nauvoo Expositor but here we get to learn about others!<br /><br />The book is chronologically written but has a very good list of contents which groups the branches according to the four mentioned above and two others, because many divisions occurred in every branch - too. Three other groups in the list of contents are the independents, different publishing houses and the anti-LDS organisations. The book cannot be read from start to end, you get bored. The information is sufficient and very technical, the author has sometimes cited their articles of faiths, which don't really help to distinguish the differences.<br /><br />Shields is very neutral in his description, cause every branch believes itself to be the only correct one - Community of Christ is more liberal though. Buy it, cause you won't find any other list, not even in internet, with this detail. I mean the addresses are in the book, so if you're out of ideas for your holidays ... I recommended it warmly for the Restoration student!	2005-04-17
US	17968265	R2C7WLXF67BJO2	1555176879	612070150	The Three Nephites and Other Translated Beings	Books	4	8	12	N	N	Short and sufficient	Every religious tradition has some revelative beginnings. It can be angels or gods appearing and giving eternal truths. But the revelations don't stop here. They continue thru saints, Mary and thru the richest and most modern expression of Christianity, the Latter Day Saints movements, with more than 150 different groups, originating from the theologian and prophet Joseph Smith Jr.<br /><br />Joseph became a prophet thru the appearances of Jesus and God and he revealed to the 19th century woman and man new scriptures, re-defining many of the traditional dogmas of Christianity: one of them being the only-bible dogma.<br /><br />In the first revealed book, Book of Mormon, and in the coming disserations by the prophet we get to know a new revelative experience, that of the translated beings: men (not one single woman) who are immortalised by the power of god and live on earth or in heaven - awaiting the said second coming of the Christian Messiah.<br /><br />Mr Dana is a believer in the LDS church and has gathered information from the LDS scriptures: Book of Mormon, the Doctrine and Covenants (revelation of Jospeh) and other authoritative writing of the church presidents.<br /><br />The translated beings come from both Book of Mormon and the bible, for those not acquainted with neither of these books, I will give some examples. Enoch is a famous one, who lived like some hundreds of years before the mythical great Flood and then was \\"taken up\\" to heaven, see the beginning of Genesis  in bible. Alma, the St Paul of Book of Mormon, was as prohpet living in 90 BCE somewhere in Central America and preached about Jesus and the gospel. He vanished from earth and is supposed to be translated. Without saying too much about the three Nephites: these were three of the American apostles of Jesus, which begged Jesus to be immortalised. This happened when Jesus visited his American adherent in 34 CE.<br /><br />These and other charactors are among some ten or so that Dana covers in his book even though the three Nephites are the focus of the book. I found it so interesting reading about the state of being translated, what sort of a body does the being have, do you need to eat and what is the purpose of just wandering around and be invisible?<br /><br />It is a pity that the book is a bit correct, it doesn't make any reference to the hundreds of occasions that the three Nephites have been seen. Mr Dana mentions rather those cases that are believed to be authentic by the church and are from the days of Joseph Smith (1830s-40s).<br /><br />It is a short, easy-read book, with rather large fonts, divided in 18 chapters and very informative. I don't believe in this phenomenon but one learns to respect this wonderful tradition which for many LDS believers is a witness to the authenticity of the Book of Mormon and the bible.<br /><br />The BYU unit of Book of Mormons studies, FARMS, has criticised this book for being a copy of another author's work!s are the focus of the book. I found it so interesting reading about the state of being translated, what sort of a body does the being have, do you need to eat and what is the purpose of just wandering around and be invisible?    It is a pity that the book is a bit correct, it doesn't make any reference to the hundreds of occasions that the three Nephites have been seen. Mr Dana mentions rather those cases that are believed to be authentic by the church and are from the days of Joseph Smith (1830s-40s).    It is a short, easy-read book, with rather large fonts, divided in 18 chapters and very informative. I don't believe in this phenomenon but one learns to respect this wonderful tradition which for many LDS believers is a witness to the authenticity of the Book of Mormon and the bible.    The BYU unit of Book of Mormons studies, FARMS, has criticised this book for being a copy of another author's work!	2005-04-17
US	17968265	R35NQ9U2HLQ1FY	083090266X	199717943	The Restoration Movement: Essays in Mormon History	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Informative and holistic	This book is really old. I read it after \\"New Mormon history\\" and was a bit disappointed but not too much. It is a great book, giving the whole story of LDS church, Community of Christ (former RLDS) and the Church of Christ with Elijah message. The book is about the whole restoration movement and starts chronologically from the first vision to Nauvoo. Than it is divided in the chapters about the three mentioned churches. <br /> <br />The introductory essay is about the origins of LDS in the midst of so many different denominations of those times. The author tries to find possible sources in the religious atmosphere in those times, which lead to the rise of the LDS church. It seems that the individual Jacksonian spirit and the more anti-Calvinistic trends of those days gave away to a culture which promoted individual progress and responsibility taken for his/hers acts. These are seen in the Restoration churches of today and especially in the wonderful verse of Book of Mormon: \\"Adam fell, that men might be; and men are, that they might have joy\\" (2 Nephi 2:25, LDS version). This essay avoids being simplistic and is clear about the complexity of the Restoration movement. I believe that the second essay in \\"New Mormon history\\"(Signature books) is a good complement to this essay, because it sees Joseph as a primary initiator along with the different trends of those days. <br /> <br />The first essay is about the beginning of the LDS church, form the first vision to the Pennsylvania period. The second is about the Kirtland years.  The third and fourth puts into perspective the horrible persecutions of the LDS and why it happened. We get to learn the attackers and the horrible mobs, who raped and murdered. The fifth, which is reprinted in \\"New Mormon history\\" is a wonderful chronicle about the Nauvoo period, this utter extreme period of LDS history, when polygamy was practised, when the temple work started and of course when Joseph was murdered. The sixth is about the beginning of the twelve apostles and their authority, which gives a good picture of how authority is changed over time and how much human we after all are ...  <br /> <br />The seventh essay is about the beginning of and the first years of Community of Christ. The eighth, which is reprinted in the book \\"Mormon mavericks\\" (Signature books) is about James J Strang, who just like Joseph became a translator of new plates. His life is worth reading. The ninth essay is about the period of Far West, the move towards Salt Lake and the life there. The life of the early LDS is further described in the tenth essay, where one gets to learn how polygamy practising LDS danced - they developed an interesting etiquette! <br />The eleventh describes the modern LDS church from the beginning of the 20th century to the beginning of the 1970s. When the book was written, priesthood was still closed to men of other skin colour than white, which makes the reading of this chapter historically important, cause LDS church has changed a lot since then - not when it comes to gays/lesbian and women though! The last essay is about the grandson of Joseph Smith and the legacy he left in Community of Christ, when his father, Joseph III, died. <br /> <br />The more historical essays are very descriptive, you have several years and events mentioned, which you forget. When it comes to those essays which assess the past, like the one about James J Strang, the persecutions, Nauvoo, you learn to understand you present in a different way. Read it, it is faith-promoting and a good basis for the new comer in the Restoration movement. <br />	2005-04-17
US	17968265	R18T3EMZO2WZQ5	156085085X	370702957	In Sacred Loneliness: The Plural Wives of Joseph Smith	Books	5	42	49	N	N	A masterpiece	A masterpiece, great job dude!    Reading this book evoked so many different feelings and reactions for me. It was a mix of laughter, wonder, beauty, respect, hatred and sadness. Getting to know these women, altogether 33, makes me see how differently I perceive my live, its purpose and meaning in the modern society, far away from wagons, child death, persecutions and complicated relationships. The author has a neutral historic perspective on the issue itself - polygamy - there is no tendency in the book to value or weigh the destinies of the women or their relationship with Joseph Smith, the first prophet and president of the LDS church.  Joseph is the common factor for these 33 interesting women, who had lives full of both adventure and harshness, of love and of despair.    There is not much said in the book about the history of polygamy. The reader gets acquainted with it thru the story of the women. Each chapter begins with a special moment of the women's life. Thereafter Comptons, the author, gives a short description and then start to tell their lives, from craddle, their marriages, their acquaintance with Joseph, when being married/sealed to Joseph, when Joseph is martyred and then the the great move West begins and ends in Salt Lake City. Some of the women do not end up there but the majority do, because they have entered new polygamic relationships with Joseph's close friends.    Compton has collected and gone thru immense quantity of sources. He is able to give a thorough life story in 10 up to 30 pages about every women. He has done his outmost to trace the women from birth (knowing the job title of their parents, the birth dates of their siblings) to their death (be it in California, Utah and even tracing the lives of their offspring!).     I want to really give you, Mr Comtpon, my appreciation and gratitude in capturing the diverse aspects of the women, giving me a sense of their feelings, when sad, when happy, and also for making them speak out. History is written by men and for men, and these women are either in the index of Jospeh's biographies or \\"an irritation\\" in Emma's life, but these were women who first of all, were believers in the LDS faith, they were puritans and all of them had a process of handling the polygamy, secretly proposed by and lived during Joseph's life time or when living it openly in the more hostile era of the 1860s to 1890s.    It is difficult for me to give a picture of their lives, because you have to read about every one of them, jumping from one chapter to another won't help, because every life story is so different from the other and touching in the way it is written. Every women experiences child death, death of the close and dear, the harshness of frontier life, to break up with cosy homes in urban or rural areas in order to start a new life in mud! I like the way Compton writes his epilogues, which are so comforting. It is easy to feel sad about the women, in many cases the women were \\"introduced\\" in polygamy thru parents, brothers, or thru other older women, and Joseph has a tactic that in some ways didn't really - it is my belief - give the women a chance to say no. It is the influence of religion, devotion to the leader and sorry for saying it, with a secteristic touch over it. I am not LDS and I am not saying that LDS church of today is secteristic, but I doubt the fact that some of the women, had any choice but to say yes. The youngest was 14 years, when Joseph was in his mid-thirties, today, this \\"marriage\\" wouldn't be that acceptable.    The book is informative, you don't need to be an expert in LDS history, Compton gives general historical details about the early LDS history while writing about the women and how they understood their present, so that the lives of the women can be understood in the right context. They lived in a apocalyptic era, the persecution and the move West made them see themselves as the Israelites fleeing Pharaoh.     Do remember that writing aboutpolygamy (normally one always comes to think about harems) is not easy.  It took time for the LDS church to find a routine for polygamy because these 33 women came in contact with polygamy in a time when it was not an open teaching of the church. Some of them had husbands, while marrying Joseph. I think the way Compton uses the word \\"married\\" is sound, because it was not a liason or one night-stand, these women believed that god sanctioned their marriage to Joseph, for these women the marriage meant that they would be goddesses in the afterlife with Joseph. But still, I wonder: was it really a teaching complicating your life for? I bet that the LDS church of today would be the first church to oppose a pro-polygamy law!    However, whatever the reason, read the book because we need to see the human side and the human consequences of spiritual doctrines, be it refusing blood transfusion or living in polygamy. The book shows how religion and religious devotion can make people leaving behind cute Victorian homes for a frontier life and also to have to break up with the monogamous tradition of those days (still hard today I might say). These women lived it, the majority regarded it as an honour to have been married to Joseph and I respect them for that, WE should respect them for that.    My thoughts go especially to Louisa Beaman, the  Patridge sisters and Helen Mar Whitney.	2005-04-03
US	17968265	R3QBRUFE8477GP	1560850078	800780147	Faithful History: Essays on Writing Mormon History (Essays on Mormonism Series)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Faithful history - an enigma	Thank god for these wonderful compilations of Signature. George D Smith has collected very important essays from four perspectives. One is the non-LDS like Foster, second is the Missouri based movement of Joseph Smith like Mesle, third the LDS traditionalists like Midgely and fourth, LDS liberals like Quinn. However, there are only two camps: the traditionalist visavi the rest. Very well done to have an essay from Midgley, however, one could have chosen one of his short essays - if there are any. (FARMS - the Brigham Young University's unit of Book of Mormon history writes short essays when they like something they read, so one could only guess why Midgley writes 30 pages ....) <br /> <br />Reviewing this magnificent book is a challenging task. It is useless to give a summary of every essay, because they are so philosophical. Every essay discusses the aspects of history, historical methods, objectivism, religious identity, facts, myths, authoritarianism, belief and faith. <br /> <br />All these are mentioned and interpreted in various ways, making the reading a bit complicated. Like how to define faith, belief and myth. For one author myth is a spiritual story for another myth is a non-historical story. One author even replace the word faith by something else ... One could say that the totality of LDS scripture and history (be it polygamy in Nauvoo, the First vision etc) is treated by the book. It is not the actual event, which is the focus of the essays but they exemplify their standpoints thru evoking some historical details. <br /> <br />So what are these standpoints? Just two simplify the liberal vs the traditionalist: <br /> <br />- god, as an actor in history, can only be evoked by a pre-understanding where s/he is felt as factual, where this relationship is of a spiritual nature not scientific (the liberal) <br />- to exclude god from history, can only be done if there is a pre-understanding that there is no god, wherefore god should be an actor as Napoleon and therefore miracles are possible (the traditionalist) <br /> <br />The book shows that the traditionalist point of view is not on the same level as the former. Why? Because there is a variety of gods/divinities. History is about writing from sources and deriving conclusions thru verifiable methods and these methods are universal, so one could actually \\"measure\\" - not the truth but - the OPTIMAL relationships between factors, causes and consequences in history. The method should be applied regardless of the text or its source (divine or human). Divinity reduces the relationship and in some way excludes factors, which could shed more light on a passed event. Just to exemplify: every human knows that virgins can't have babies. So the historian - instead of proving this, which would be weird - would try to see why was such a detail necessary to the Jesus story. The birth is only mentioned in two canonised Gospels so a historian would not argue against the story itself, because it is not her/his job promoting a specific ideology. An atheist could though do the promoting! The traditionalist in this case would attack the historian for excluding god from the picture because for god everything is possible and s/he would also try to find some minor inconsistencies in the work of the historian, making a hen of a feather, as we say in Swedish. <br /> <br />So, at last these twain camps will never meet, because no one wants to discuss on the same terms. The traditionalist wants to relativise every point of the historian just to make hers/his own point acceptable. But at the end they lose, because if the historian is subjective excluding god from history, how subjective is not the traditionalist having god in history? For me, the subjectivity of the historian is more relevant than the traditionalist, it is a subjectivity which doesn't believe itself to be the truth, what a historian writes today would change in 10 years time and s/he would not be angry about it. <br /> <br />The traditionalist will always stick to the truth and will surely find something in 10 years which could prove it more .... talk about research and development :-)  <br /> <br /> <br /> <br />  <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-02-26
US	17968265	RQ6LEF4L7ZGAD	1560850116	735388849	The New Mormon History: Revisionist Essays on the Past (Essays on Mormonism Series)	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Towards reinterpretation	It is not surprising that LDS movement would be inspired by the text and form criticism movement that began in the early 20th century. It is not surprising that the primary \\"battle\\" is between this new perspective and the more traditional one in LDS movement itself. There is no \\"new\\" LDS history as there has never been a \\"new\\" Jesus story. Stories are told over and over again by humans and interpreted by others and it is a fact that a historical account of Jesus would be more neutral if it was written today than by the community close to his presumed death, so the same goes for LDS. <br /> <br />As always Signature does their best to give a holistic picture thru their selection of essays. The essays don't have the \\"what really did happen?\\"-clich, that many Conservative anti-LDS Christians are famous for. Lancaster handles the issue like Joseph's several accounts of the first vision very \\"gently\\". He has no ambition to say the last word. This is clear when Hansen, who became famous for his \\"Council of Fifty\\" make a review of his own essay some 20 years afterwards. He acknowledges that he would have written a bit differently, how, well it is for you to find out. <br /> <br />It's lovely that Newell (co-author to Emma Smith's biography) has an essay about the LDS women and how they spoke in tongues, administered; thing that LDS today view as strictly male priesthood duties. Shipps famous essay on a holistic view appears among the essays. She wanted to introduce a way to analyse Joseph ignoring the eternal dichotomy of charlatan and prophet. Beecher writes about the leading sisters of early LDS, among others Eliza R Snow. It is weird how history always becomes the history of leading brothers... Not to forget the story of the sea gulls by Heartly. The monument stands there in Salt Lake as a memory of this miracle of LDS history - however sources and some environmental issues seems shed a new light, there were sea gulls and crickets, but .... <br /> <br />Very strictly analytical essays are those of May about the LDS membership statistics thru 150 years and Walker's fine overview of how LDS responded towards wars such as the American war, WW1 and WW2 etc. The wonderful essay of Flanders, Nauvoo revisited: it is more like a columnist writing about a period of LDS history which ended with the terrible murder of the prophet. An important essay is the case of how LDS maintained harmony is policy issues, such as polygamy, by Alexander. <br /> <br />Arrington, former church historian, takes us thru the historical sources in the archives. He introduces us to a world of hidden treasures, which change our perspective of LDS history, from strictly hierarchic to horizontal, from centre to periphery. Pillis' essay treats the rise of LDS in the early 1830s. It shows how environment can shape religious movements. <br /> <br />The remaining three essays - Ivins, Campell & Campell and Cannon II - are about polygamy. The first one is the most thrilling, because it is a sort of an ethnographic study of the practice itself, such as men seemed to marry several from the same family, such as sisters or mother/daugther, and as older the men got, the younger women they married. The second shows the other side of polygamy, the divorces. The third is about how polygamy continued even after the famous manifesto of 1890. <br /> <br />The book ends by B H Roberts and how he wants to write a history of church where every side is heard. Signature manages always to end the essays with this short writing by famous LDS. This book gives you a glimpse into a history not wished to be written and therefore it is a challenging history. It reshapes how we have viewed the past and hopefully shapes in a right way to handle the past. I am looking forward to such a collection of essay in twenty years.... Thank you Signature. <br />	2005-02-22
US	17968265	R3IGTWAIDU7B5U	156085121X	67344441	The Prophet Puzzle: Interpretive Essays on Joseph Smith (Essays on Mormonism Series)	Books	5	5	8	N	N	Homo multifacete	These interpretive essays on Joseph Smith (JS) are a fresh air in the never-ending discussion of this remarkable man. He wasn't like the mysticists or like other grand persons of history, but a farm boy, low-educated, poor: but just after two-three years, he become divine, talking to Jesus and listening to the voice of angels nearly every day. The essays concentrate on this man and on his surrounding. Some essays bring up the work, which were translated/written by him, others go thru some specific points of his history. The essays contribute therefore to a holistic approach of this man.    Sandberg's essay is one of the best about JS. Thru the famous psychologist Jung and his works, he presents a JS who has transcended the material boundaries of language and sign and reached a spiritual salvation - which he describes in plain Enlighs language. This is particularly shown in the last essay, which is JS' own King Folett speach. JS sees himself to have solved the mystery of godhood, glorification and why we are on earth. How wonderful it would be for us normal individuals without any religious connotation to have this self-confidence like JS. I - to be more personal - admire JS. I would never be able to preach polygamy and say it came from god or that I have met an angel and been called for prophethood. Did he ever get nervous?    The answer is sort of ambivalent. The essays of Anderson and Foster tries to analyse JS psychologically. Anderson questions the fact that one could put a diagnose on a dead person, relying on contradictory sources. Foster however, believes that JS was mano-depressive. He means that the only way he could implement polygamy was thru this mano-phase, where one is absolutely sure that everything depends on one issue and is eager to change the world - like becoming a president - JS tried that too, without succes.    Bergera touches this issue of presidency and JS leadership - a good perspective. He bases his essay on the Weberian types of leadership, where charismatic is one of those and apply it on JS.  Huggins and England are more interested in JS' as a theologian and a romanticist. Huggins goes thru JS own translation of Romans and finds that already in his revision of Romans, JS tries to excuse polygamy .... England, his style of writing is like a melody, making her best to find JS behind among others the King Folett speach.     One of the best - again - is Staker. Her essay appears for the first time in this compilation and sheds a light on the Book of Abraham and its relation to polygamy. JS introduced polygamy little by little and confined on his closest friends, marrying several of their wives. She finds an interesting link to the foundation of Relief society, which today has become a sort of charity organisation. Read it!    Jan Shipps and her way of ignoring the charlatan-prophet paradox is also in the book. Vogel - like his psychiography \\"Making of a prophet\\" promotes his model  la Shipps and treats JS as a pious fraud, a one that believed if white lies could bring humans close to jesus and god, why not lie, ie. the means justifies the end.    Two wonderful backgrounds, one about the New York area of those days - by Bringhurst and an overview of the biograhpies on Smith, from 1830s to 1970s by Alexander, are worth reading too (I'll end up recommending every essay soon....). Two essays treat what was introduced and analysed by Quinn, the magical tradition of early LDS.    Owens - depending a bit too much on \\"Refiner's fire\\" enhances JS hermetic side and Taylor, puts JS' treasure seeking in a similar magical context. Very briefly - it seems that the early LDS or the rest of people did not view magic as contradictory to religion. As this changed over time, LDS tried to minimise this context. I believe that this magical adventurous side of JS actually prepared make a prophet of him.    It is wonderful that a traditionalist appears in Signature among all the \\"heathens\\", hihi! We have Bushman, who thruhis balanced view of history writes about JS' as a translator. His way of mentioning Book of Abraham is diplomatic. A very very \\"quoty\\" essay is the one by Wagoner and Walker. They go thru several sources about the translation process.    Will the book change a traditionalist view of prophethood? I don't know. I believe that much of being a prophet, is to be confirmed as such. In Swedish we say that beauty lies in the viewer's eye - funny it sounds in English. I have learned that being perfect - which is expected from president, popes and prophets - is a process and you can never say I am perfect and all-knowing today. If JS had the research about bible close to hand, maybe every thing would have been different. Maybe. If JS would be a feminist, he wouldn't introduce polygamy, or if he would, he would allow women to have several men. But as always, he was a child of his time and this influenced his religious and spiritual expressions. I don't believe he lied, I think he was sure of what he was doing, I think that he had this burning in the bosom all his life and tried to express this wonderful feeling by writing spiritual work. Gosh, I sound so \\"Pollyannish\\", hm.	2005-02-20
US	17968265	R121QNQX6A7QK9	0941214931	584036282	The Word of God: Essays on Mormon Scripture (Essays on Mormonism Series)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	The spiritual strength of today	\\"The Word of God\\" is as every Signature book a compilation of several essays - the first one I presume! They are easy to read and easy to follow. There is not - of course - one single essay written by LDS traditionalists. This book proceeded the more known \\"New approaches\\". Hutchinson, Vogel, Metcalfe, Charles, Thomas and Ashment are authors who appear in both books. The difference between the books is that \\"The Word of God\\" does not only analyse the Book of Mormon (BoM), but brings up the discussion on the level of revelation. The scriptures treated are the BoM, the Book of Abraham (BoA), Word of Wisdom (WoWis), Doctrine and Covenants (D&C), Isaiah and bible.    I really did fancy the book, I mean, those who will read my utterly weird reviews about the other books, will note that Signature always gets 5 stars! Why? They do not deny divinity, mysticism or revelation, they just propose another way of handling it. They know that people depend on the language setting of their time. They are open for environmentalist explanations of some specific details in the holy scriptures. It is also wonderful that some of the authors come from the Missouri based movement of Joseph Smith.    Howard gives us a more complementary view on the propositional revelation, ie. everything comes in a ready-made package from above. He exemplifies with excerpts from D&C and BoA. Spencer continues with problematising the relationship between inspiration, revelation and scripture. There is an interdependence between these concepts, but it is in the end the personal testimony and understanding of these concepts that makes the difference, whether there was an angel with golden plates or not. Both Howard and Spencer rejects literalism that among other things god created the world in 168 hours. Hutchinson and Russell hold on to the anti-literalistic tradition introdued by the former authors. Hutchinson analyses Joseph's prophecy of the American war. It seems that some details of it were changed as time passed, but the core of the prophecy of an approaching war atmosphere is still there.     Thomas, Curtis and Lindgren and Lancaster approach the BoM. Lancaster goes thru the sources about the translation process, that in the majority of time, Smith used an egg-shaped stone, which he put in his hat while dictating to his scribes. Thomas wants to relate to BoM as a theological book, avoiding the question of its authorship. A healthy perspective - it is like the creation story in Genesis, a poetic rather than a scientific story! Lindgren's essay is close to Thomas. Curtis compares the societal system and mentality of the BoM-people with the 19th century and draws the conclusion about the modernity of the book.    Vogel's and Metcalfe's essay is very thoroughly done. The main point is that the creation story and the system of universe and divinity in BoA are a reflection of the scientific understanding of 19th century scholars. Charles treats the presentism of LDS theology, ie. how latter days understanding of scripture is applied on the whole bible, even though many parts of the bible and its theology is totally different and where written in another context than in 20th century USA.    George D Smith does a superb overview of how Isaiah has been understood by early Hebrews, 1st century Christians and 19th century LDS. Of course, every time and people have used Isaiah in order to legitimise either a messianic period, or that Jesus is the suffering servant or that the \\"sealed book\\" is BoM.  Bush's essay on WoWis is marvelous, thorough, detailed and once again, the influence of 19th century culture is reflected in it. Ashment's gives the reader an insight in the writing of BoA and the Four scripture in one-edition. The first one is too analytic: Ashmment shows thru BoA how LDS tries to minimise the so-called \\"dissonance\\" - ie. when reality does not coincide with religious belief. It is mainly counter-argument against the famous LDS scholar Hugh Nibley. The second islike Charles', about presentism. We have Barney's essay on the Inspired version (Joseph's translation of the bible) and its translation. With quotes from King James bible, Inspired version and modern translations, Barney convinces the reader that the Inspried version is rather an inspired revision. Widstoe ends this compilation with some beautiful words about how pondering the scriptures in a critical way can enhance one's spiritual level.     Superb as always. In some way Signature always opens up the perspective, of course for a traditional LDS, there is in the book and Signature in general an pre-understanding, that angelic revelation is not a historical fact, but these essays lead us to expand our vision, that maybe spiritual experience is so difficult to explain, that one needs a supernatural language to express it. And also, just as we would not agree on having a doctor from 6th century do a heart operation on us, we cannot always rely on the fact that the divine uttered its will for hundred or thousand years ago. Why should a divinity which does not depend on human understanding of time, limit hers/his revelation in a specific time in human history? We need scholarship, people like Charles, Vogel and Metcalfe to make that revelation understandable for us in our dry non-supernatural language. Well, read it!	2005-02-19
US	17968265	R5ILFOS4LP4L2	1560850175	909456195	New Approaches to the Book of Mormon: Explorations in Critical Methodology	Books	5	17	19	N	N	Challenging and wonderful	Having read the book and the FARMS review I did get a bit puzzled. In some way the FARMS review was a bit patronising - I mean which one of their review isn't? - but at the same time behind all the ad hominen-attacks FARMS did have a point. For those who don't know about FARMS, it is a unit in the Brigham Young University, which does research confirming the historicity of the Book of Mormon (BoM). Metcalfe et al are on the other side of the \\"battle\\" challenging the historicity of the BoM thru the historical critical method, the same that is used for any book thru history, be it Bible or the Bagavad Gita!<br /><br />The essays written do make a point too I may say. The researchers are grand names of Mormon history, belonging to both the Utah and Missouri-based branches of the Joseph Smith movement. They do not agree with traditional Mormon scholars when it comes to the question of historicity. Every essay treats - implicitly though - the BoM as a modern 19th century scripture written by Joseph Smith. This is not a new understanding of the presumed authorship of BoM, but it is done in a new way. Every essay tries to let the BoM-text speak for itself, then it compares it to other scriptures in the 19th century and finally concludes that the book is modern. Other essays try to respond to the growing research on the BoM as an ancient historical document (research mainly coming from FARMS).<br /><br />The authors give an insight of the BoM, they show the complexity of the scripture, its deep theological questions - called it what you want: anti-universalistic, modalistic, midrashic - and therefore contribute to the on-going discussion of the sacred, the profane, the factual, the mythical etc. The article about BoM geography by Matheny is done in a superb academic way. Matheny deduces  - hypothetically - potential artefacts that should have been left from the civilisations in the BoM. Then she compares it to actual artefacts and concludes what was concluded about the Bible in the late 18th century, that there is no proof. This thorough investigation is counter-argued by Sorensen in his FARMS review, with the same detailed analysis.<br /><br />Hutchinson discusses in an absolute way the sacredness of the scripture being more important than its historicity. How convincing it may sounds, in a traditional belief faith is history, there is no myths, but one true myth. I agree fully with Hutchinsin, being myself liberal and so.<br /><br />Vogel brings up the BoM's message to the 19th century America, which seems to put in question the universalism of those days, ie the teaching that Christ saved us all whether we believe in it och not. Vogel does not say that Joseph copied the different books, but argues that the anti-universalistic discourse in BoM captures the tone of those days. Same goes for Thomas in analysing the sacramental prayer of Moroni and in comparing it with the sacramental prayers of 19th century America.<br /><br />Ashment tries to see how the original language of the BoM could have been and what sort of sources there are for confirming it. Good general discussion, some smaller flaws, but who's perfect. Kunich goes thru the population growth of BoM as the 19th LDS understood it, that from the small Hebrew colony sprang millions of Nephites and Lamanites.<br /><br />Wright treats the interpretation of Melchisedek in Alma as a midrash on Hebews chapter 7 and gives us a picture of how Joseph mastered this skill, which is impressing. I mean how old was Joseph, 25? By midrash Wright means the art of taking a story from the Bible and deriving from it a new understanding, which the original writer had not intended. In Joseph's case he is expanding thru Alma the priesthood of Melchisedek to every Christian and correct minor inconstencis in Hebrews.<br /><br />Charles has written a detailed overview of how the BoM-people viewed god, Jesus and the spirit and concludes that it differs a lot from the theology of LDS today - both the Utah and Missouri branch. It is natural for every movement to interpret past events from a new understanding and it seems that as older and wiser bro Joseph got, the more god changed. The same evolution can be seen in the Bible, god in Torah is rather demanding but compared to Amos, s/he changes 180 degress, so if the old Hebrews got to understand god as time evolved, so could Joseph.<br /><br />Metcalfe ends the book by describing how the BoM was written chronologically and that Joe's understanding of the book's structure changed while he translated/wrote. This is called the Mosiah priority. He makes an interesting point: the coming of Jesus to the New world in 3 Nephi is rarely mentioned between Mosiah - Helaman. Could the silence be understood as absence of knowledge?<br /><br />Larson compared the sermon of the mount with the sermon at the temple. Lots of Greek words and linguistical stuff, so ignore it. I mean it is such a pity that he goes thru all the texts to prove that the temple sermon is a copy of King James Bible and not original ... FARMS seems to believe that none of the texts could be seen as a proof for anything, cause the BoM-text is prima stuff and that an original in reformed Egyptian cannot be exactly like the Greek one. Hm. I support Larson though!<br /><br />The book is easy to read, but one gets bored of all the quotes, some more figures could be added. In all, read the book: it doesn't threat one's belief, the worst thing that can happen is that one starts doubting, but religious people have always solved doubt by prayer and meditation. For the BoM-believer this book will give a lot of insight about the book and its coming forth - the conclusions can always be forgotten! Read also \\"American Apocrypha\\" and \\"Word of God\\"!ment to interpret past events from a new understanding and it seems that as older and wiser bro Joseph got, the more god changed. The same evolution can be seen in the Bible, god in Torah is rather demanding but compared to Amos, s/he changes 180 degress, so if the old Hebrews got to understand god as time evolved, so could Joseph.     Metcalfe ends the book by describing how the BoM was written chronologically and that Joe's understanding of the book's structure changed while he translated/wrote. This is called the Mosiah priority. He makes an interesting point: the coming of Jesus to the New world in 3 Nephi is rarely mentioned between Mosiah - Helaman. Could the silence be understood as absence of knowledge?     Larson compared the sermon of the mount with the sermon at the temple. Lots of Greek words and linguistical stuff, so ignore it. I mean it is such a pity that he goes thru all the texts to prove that the temple sermon is a copy of King James Bible and not original ... FARMS seems to believe that none of the texts could be seen as a proof for anything, cause the BoM-text is prima stuff and that an original in reformed Egyptian cannot be exactly like the Greek one. Hm. I support Larson though!    The book is easy to read, but one gets bored of all the quotes, some more figures could be added. In all, read the book: it doesn't threat one's belief, the worst thing that can happen is that one starts doubting, but religious people have always solved doubt by prayer and meditation. For the BoM-believer this book will give a lot of insight about the book and its coming forth - the conclusions can always be forgotten! Read also \\"American Apocrypha\\" and \\"Word of God\\"!	2005-02-18
US	17968265	R3CPARJG1TCJ42	1560851546	305272317	Mormon Mavericks: Essays on Dissenters (Essays on Mormonism)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	"What is truth?" - Pilate	\\"Mormon mavericks\\" speaks to everyone of us. The mavericks mentioned are from different time periods and include people close to Joseph Smith or General Authorities. Their fates differs in that some chose to stay in the church, other chose or forced to choose to be outside. The essays are beautifully written, the writing styles are refreshing and one wonders how one own's life would be written by others, in 10-20 pages. The book taught a lot about other people's worries, thoughts and actions in a way that made it so clear, so destined in some way, one wonders again if we all are a part of this pattern of reaching one's inner fulfilled desires. Hopefully. <br /> <br />Most fascinating essays were those about people seeking truth, historical truth, like Fawn Brodie, Juantia Brooks, Sterling McMurrins, Michael Quinn and Thomas Ferguson. The essay about Juanita and her importance, I consider her as the first New Mormon Historian, is powerful. Most striking were the personal touch of the essays about Sterling and Michael. The \\"I\\" took me very close to these personalities. I think that the Church should see how valuable these persons have been and are. It is a good deed to grant blessings posthumously but frankly I believe that many should have experienced it when living. <br />	2005-01-09
US	17968265	R3MI000IWXZ5RR	1560850140	9454971	Women and Authority: Re-Emerging Mormon Feminism	Books	5	21	25	N	N	Spirituality has no gender!	This book is just jolly good! I mean you get to read about all these aspects of LDS women's life and spirituality. The editor has really done a remarkable job, gathering all these essays from believing and cultural LDS, which illuminate the situation of many passed and present women of LDS. <br /> <br />Some essays are interviews with LDS women, there is a long excerpt from the 19th century LDS women's magazine, a lot of space is dedicated to the equal rights movement taking place in US and how LDS women handled it. The question of authority and priesthood is discussed which gave a great knowledge about the old days, when the LDS movement was charismatic, not so institutionalised as it became later. It is not only the facticity of women healing, administering to the sick, praying and having religous seances that is mentioned, but also how  how this can be used today, in women's and men's lives. Do we actually need female priests? What kind of measures would it take? Is there a possibility for creating a forum besides the Relief society to empower women's sprituality? <br /> <br />The role of language and its patriarchal structure, another essay, reminded of my own church's struggle (I am Swedish Lutheran) in the 1950s when the first women were ordained to be priests. The question of language is also connected to the image of god, is it a man, a father, and how comforting can a father image be, when fathers seem so absent in our lives? There is according to LDS a mother in heaven but she is rather silent, but through this book you get to know people who were touched by her and answered by her.  <br /> <br />I loved the book and you will like it independently of your relation to the LDS movement, because it raises important questions and can be a start-off for a change, just like that research which finally opened the priesthood for all males regardless of skin colour in 1978. But as always, change takes time, I mean it took five hundred years for the Lutherans in Sweden to finally \\"let\\" the women become priests, it will take time and a lot of effort. As an essay in the book says, there is hardly any women in the place where the action in the church takes place, because many posts in the LDS hierarchy are connected to the priesthood, so it will take time. It is a faith-promoting book in many ways, it showed how faithfulness to the religion can be empowering even if it never gives you the actual chance to be empowered. <br /> <br />Two constructive suggestions, when editing another collection: one: why the silence about  polygamy? How did it affect authority? How did it effect women's chance to be priestesses and godesses of the new heavens and earths? I mean even if the women had an independence during Joseph's life time and a bit afterwards, many of them, were living in polygamous relationships. It is sad that not one essay mentioned this and I believe that polygamy had to do someting with the Relief society in the beginning and that polygamy helped institutionalise the patriarchy in the church so that women's voice was never heard, only their exit, when they could not handle it. Two: the book is in some way very US-focused, especially in the equal movement part, maybe I am too European living in Europe but it hardly mentions anything about the church in other countries. How is women's spirituality and authority affected by the church in countries with another religous/secular tradition? So, bro' or sis' I recommend and especially for the men in the LDS church! <br />	2005-01-07
US	17968265	R3F84H4LZKYLT5	0252065158	157192126	Joseph Smith III: PRAGMATIC PROPHET	Books	3	8	11	N	N	Pragmatic and faithful	How is it to be the son of a prophet? How is it to loose your father by a hand of an unidentifed mob which never got condamned? And how is it to become another prophet, like your father but differently? Well, these questions are answered in this biography. <br /> <br />The book is easy to read and the chapters discuss the issues that puzzled Joseph III untill his death. Joseph III was more down to earth than what his father was and he gained respect because of that. The author focuses on the pragmatic side of Joseph, which can be a bit repetitive and minimalistic. It feels wiered that a person could only have one single quality. There is some authoritarian qualities in Joseph which cannot be hidden behind the pragmatic discourse, as the reader will notice in the middle of the book. The reader get acquainted with Joseph's family, his fatherhood and how he tried to clean his father's name from polygamy. His strategy was to create a Book of Mormon-believing community which could be integrated into overall American culture. Reading this book would give those who are a part of the Reorganisation (RLDS/Community of Christ) the confirmation that Zion-building and a Christ-focused worship was Joseph's main doctrines. The book would also give those non-affliated with the Restoration movement (like me) an idea about the psyche of the son of a prophet! It seems that Joseph, having a lawyer background and knowing the weaknesses and the strenghts of his father, tried to do it in his own way. An encouragement for all of us, who try to go our own way. <br /> <br />	2005-01-01
US	17968265	R3PD1OV1DEME06	0195168887	419207680	By the Hand of Mormon: The American Scripture that Launched a New World Religion	Books	5	17	25	N	N	Thank you!	Finally a fresh air in the midst of the Evangelical-LDS dispute. Many thanks to Givens for his utterly nuanced and deep analysis of the discourse surrounding the Book of Mormon since its beginning and illuminating the book as scripture, as a token and as a book worth respecting.     I recommend the book for anyone who wants to sincerely give the notion of religion or faith a chance in our century. We are brought to believe that prophets and gods had a golden age in the past, but it seems they how come back during the 19th century in Palmyra.     Givens' style of writing is neutral, sometimes difficult to follow but refreshing, because he introduces aspects that both LDS and Evangelicals need to see, in Swedish we say that you can't see the forest because of the trees and Givens has actually succeded in showing the forest, with all its advantages and disadvantages.     Being myself a researcher I recognised the way Givens actually lets the opponents and the believers to \\"speak\\" for themselves and he tries to be a fair judge in dismissing fast conclusions from both sides. Being an agnostic, not regarding any book as holy, I appreciate taking part of Givens' conclusions, his pinpointing of seeing  1) a difference between Bible and Book of Mormon (BoM)  2) showing the specific characteristinc of the latter and  3) proving - yes actually proving - that the BoM must be taken to be true or false, and therefore he does not welcome the efforts of cultural LDS to create a middle ground. I believe that point 3 is correct in the arguing style of Givens, but can be seen as to much absolute. Scientifically one can find stronger parallells (and notice I just say stronger) between the 19th century context and BoM than the ancient context as propossed by FARMS (the BoM research unit of Brigham Young University).     Read it, it gives LDS a chance to be taken for seriously and I would love to read more books with the same inspiring approach, a scholarly approach which tries to discern and to draw sound conclusions, distancing itself from an \\"either-or\\" approach. However, Givens believes the BoM to be actual history, so at the same time he is cementing the either-or approach.    Thank you again!	2004-08-22
US	17968265	R1P03ODIDGS17A	1560851570	810243548	An Insider's View of Mormon Origins	Books	2	46	114	N	N	Outsider's conern for LDS origins	I am concerned when I read a book written by an insider and which has no nuanced perspective and which leaves the reader with the question: Why?    I agree with one of the comments made here that the book is THE handbook for anti-LDS people, because everything from old to new in anti-LDS litterature has been efficiently packed in the book with no sense of source criticism at all.    The writer, Palmer, is an LDS, thereby the title of the book, \\"an insider\\". He has taken into consideration the historical critical methodology, which he believes has put his own faith into new light. He uses several different 19th century sources, writings of modern liberal LDS scholars (mostly from the same publisher, Signature) and comes to the conclusion that the Book of Mormon and other canonised scriptures of the LDS church are Joseph's own work. He goes thru every event which has become a milestone in church history: the first vision, the restoration of the two priesthoods, the three and eight witnesses of the Book of Mormon and of course possible sources for the Book of Mormon, like Ethan Smith's \\"View of the Hebrews\\".    He writes as an apologetic, as a person of authority, that knows finally how things are and his absolute rhetoric makes the book more a promoter of a specific ideology more than a book which can help the reader to become more spiritual. In the research around the Book of Mormon or bible, the researchers always try to have an open ending, ie an ending which doesn't exclude another view, but opens up for dialogue. Palmer has already decided what dialogue is the true one.    Palmer ends his book by stating that it is important for the LDS to open up and accept this new research and accept that Joseph was no more holy than the ordinary man/woman. Instead of this, the LDS church should focus on Jesus and his personality, his life and message.     The ending is puzzling because if everything holy by the LDS church is to be questioned, how much should we not question what is written about Jesus? If the sources of the LDS are \\"manipulated\\" for 160 years ago to support one side of the story, how much manipulated are sources written 2000 years ago? Palmer never evokes these questions. I believe that the last essay in \\"American apocrypha\\", another book of Signature, tries to put this issue, humanity and divinity, into a perspective that make the sacred more comprehensible and more human. I am not affliated with the LDS church and I bought Palmer hoping to have a perspective from the inside but I found a man who was trapped in the anti-LDS discourse which I find boring and tiring.    Jospeh Smith is a multifaceted man, not an \\"either-or\\" personality that Palmer tries to prove. I believe that Palmer should be more open-mined about the evolution of LDS and its origins than he is. It is proven in religous studies that many religous experiences are an answer to needs, or the creation of pseudigraphia (the book does not bear the author name) is always necessary when religous people try to understand their environment. Joseph nor Jesus can or should be an exception.    I recommend \\"By the hand of Mormon\\" and \\"American Apocrypha\\" which excuses Joseph rather than blame him.I want to point out that researching on Book of Mormon and its origins teaches you to be more humble with the Bible, Jesus, the writers of the Bible and the whole Christian tradition. There is no difference between Matthew or Joseph, because both tried to explain Christ throught their eyes, Matthew in a Near Eastern milieu and Joseph in a pre-Columbian one. Palmer accepts the former more than the letter.    If you are a Conservative Christian, which wants to see how \\"wrong\\" other denominations are, this is the book for you. But be aware, dear Conservative, the methods described in this book which undermine any sacredness in LDS church, are used to undermine your special book, the bible, so be forgiving, not judging or arrogant! If you are a Liberal Christian, I think this book is not worth it, because there is more to Joseph and Jesus than what this book tries to prove.	2004-08-22
US	17968265	R1KU3P1CRF61T1	0310231949	603152781	New Mormon Challenge, The	Books	2	22	56	N	N	No new challenge, just the old in new format!	Francis et al - editors of the book  and Evangelical - want to open up a new dialogue with the LDS church. They acknowledge the work of many recent LDS scholars, especially those in FARMS (Book of Mormon-unit in BYU) and they try to encourage the Evangelical side to change its hundred-year-attack towards the LDS. The book is divided in four sections.    The first section is half historical describing the rise of the LDS church and half informative, assessing the members of the church and the rise of LDS scholarship. The second goes into the eternal battle of LDS god vs. Evangelical god , where the authors go thru the recent trends of LDS church about god and in some long philosophical chapters \\"disprove\\" the god of LDS church.    There is nothing new under the sun, when it comes to polemics. The authors of this section are very technical and their argumentation is far from humble. This section evoked so many boring and sad feelings in me, which became the unsuccessful review of mine. This section discusses both the nature of god and whether the universe was created out of nothing or was as LDS believes only formed by already available material by a god according to the natural laws of universe. The LDS church holds steadily to the new revelation that god is human like us, and there are many gods and goddesses in the world, all being humans before reaching this goddish state. A comment from one of the authors about this is: \\"The idea that there has been an infinite progression of humanoid deities consorting with one another from eternity is worse than scientific poppycock - it is a fairy tale of Olympian proportions\\" (p. 147). I won't comment on this sentence which is explicit enough. The author seems to live in a very protected all-Christian society, where the creation of earth in seven days and creation of man out of dust is seen as actual happenings!    The third section answers in a zigzag way the question of LDS and whether it is Christian or not. The discussionleading to the answer which never was affirmative when writing the book is interesting, cause one of the authors is a friend of both groups and tries to avoid misunderstanding. He does it in a superb way, I mean he is Evangelical afterwards and in these cases it is much easier being liberal.    The fourth section is about the Book of Mormon and here - for the very first time - the Evangelical side tries to answer the new research about the historicity of the book. The chapter about pseudo-translation is very knowledge raising and gives another input to the ever false-authentic battle about the book. The chapter about the new research gives new insight and will help the LDS community to extrapolate its research.     If you are a Conservative, I believe that the book can make your more humble towards your LDS brothers and sisters, if your are liberal, you just get mad! If you are LDS, you should be used in handling this sort of books, the difference from other anti-LDS books, is that this book is like a Evangelical Mary Poppins making the same anti-LDS medicine go down with one piece of sugar!	2004-08-22
US	17968265	R1HN64Y0C07P3S	1560851511	366912220	American Apocrypha: Essays on the Book of Mormon (Essays on Mormonism Series)	Books	5	7	11	N	N	A new New approaches!	It is a great honour to have read \\"American Apocrypha\\" because it is what Book of Mormon really is, a holy book with unknown origins or authors, just as 1-4 Esdra, Enoch books etc.    Signature books has in a nuanced way given alternative approaches to origins of Book of Mormon. As always, the alternativ approach is a naturlistic and deistic approach on the origins, where Joseph Smith is seen as the primarily author of Book of Mormon. In this case it is not a decieving Joseph who wants to exploit but a god-seeking man who thru writing the Book of Mormon wanted a new basis or fundament for real Christianity (and who can blame him?).    The authors are not Bible literalists which give the book a sound and just evaluation of Book of Mormon. What has attracted me is about the priority of Mosiah which gives a notion about the development of Joseph Smith's calling to become prophet and the last chapter, which discusses what I believe is the eternal struggle for the Bible literalist: if god never took part in writing the Bible, can it still be true? Pseudepigraphia: those who write books in the namne of others, like the Gospels, the Torah and the three Isaiahs! How can we reconcile the fact that fallible humans have written fallible scriptures with the scriptures being divine? The chapter gives an important perspective to this view which I will not reveal here.    The chapters are of different character and of different style. The chapter about Isaiah is a bit of grammatical challenge especially when Hebrew is just un-understandable as Mel Gibson's Aramaic, but very well written. The BYU-unit of Book of Mormon studies', FARMS, review of this chapter is a bit weak. The chapter about freemansory feels like reading the old anti-LDS of 1830s Alexander Campell once again. Signature books should reassess the old ways of tackling Book of Mormon and write more about the evolutive perspective of LDS like those chapters mentioned above. Many times articles about Book of Mormon become a serial counter-argumentation to FARMS - counter-argument essays are the worst kind of reading, as a reader, you can never get the whole picture.    I look forward to the next serie from Signature and hopefully the mainstream LDS members will take the challenge to read this book. I am not into holy stuff, I am just an outsider, but reading American Apocrypha gave me in insight in my own spiritual development and made me remember how I coped with Bible criticism, form criticism and other theological tools.     Well, I should not tell you what I became - you can guess for yourself - but \\"American Apocrypha\\" tries to say that Joseph is not more different that DeutroIsaiah which wrote the post-exilic parts of book called \\"Isaiah\\". Both wrote apocrypha, DeutroIsaiah in Palestine and Joseph in Palmyra!	2004-08-22
