US	18450525	R23AI8OOF501ZW	0002214407	265567428	The Fetishist and Other Stories, translation of Le coq de bruyere	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Fabulist Tales	Tournier was a 'hot' writer in the 70s and 80s and all his work remains in print and in translation. My French isn't up to assessing the quality of this translation, but the prose seems sensuous and discreet, the work of a particularly precise and practical mind. 'The Fetishist' is a collection of short stories, each playfully perverting any whiff of inevitability. Tournier's deadly wit is evident in equal measure throughout, though,'Prickly','The Red Dwarf','The Woodcock','Death and the Maiden,and,'Lily of the Valley Lay-by' especially enchant. If you haven't read the weightier works, you have a treat in store. But these fabulous tales will set you in the Tournier meter. Surreal? Yes, for all their formal structure and classic allusions, their beguiling surfaces are determined to deceive. Not through the verbal or linguistic collisions of surrealistic poetry, but in the polished inversions of the 'rational' found in Magritte and Ernst. Tournier's dense but balletic footwork has kinship with Umberto Ecco's fiction. For all the sexual darkness that permeates Tournier's ouvre, there is also what he defines as,'white humour', a marriage of the cosmic with the comic. It's an apt definition of what I find contagious about his writing, extending even to his excellent autobiography,'The Wind Spirit'.	2005-10-11
US	18450525	R2J4JICCENUSTY	0884118568	705535037	The River's End	Books	4	2	2	N	N	The World of the Canadian Far North	Here is a fantastic story set in humble, quotidian surrounds, with black forests, frozen lakes, wolf packs, and half Indian, half-Eskimo inhabitants. A man, having committed a murder, attempts to elude capture by retreating north. He is followed by a policeman and the mutual obsession with the hunt creates a peculiar bond between them. Without ever having seen each other, they live together in the great white wilderness. Then, instictively, the criminal senses the policeman is no longer there and yet he is beset with anxiety. He retraces until discovering the cop in his tent, dying. They sense their likeness to each other; their apparent twinness. When the policeman dies, the crim assumes his identity and insinuates himself into the man's life. And he nearly accomplishes the complete make-over!	2005-10-11
US	18450525	RRHYA8A68601O	1565847237	371259519	This Blinding Absence of Light: A Novel	Books	5	9	9	N	N	The Awful Truth	The descriptor,'awesome', assumes unique resonance with this book. In 1971 a Morroccan military insurrection failed in its bid to overthrow the monarchical rule. Over 50 soliers were tried and this chronicles a 'pilgim's progress' of the subsequent imprisonment. Only four of our narrator's comrades in their subterranean cell block survived the 18 years of cramped darkness. Their bodies shrank. Their teeth rotted.The means of attrition are appalling. We hear the deaths occuring around them. Strangely, as I worked through this revelatory account, I gradually recognised the voice of displacement, insight and rigour I'd encountered as an adolescent whilst reading Camus', L'Stranger'. A mere 10 pages after this familiarity crystallised, our narrator indeed arrives at his recollections of the Camus piece, 'reading'it, as he did many other literary samples, to sustain his fellows. That said, this is one powerful piece of writing. Tahar Ben Jelloun has sourced the story from one of the four survivors. Authors may have succeeded in fictionalising such a scenario. But I know of none that have charted the painful disintegration of body and soul under extremis. War traumas, plane crashes in the Andes, spiritual revelations through self-imposed deprivations, fictions like Jim Crace's,'Quarantine', with all their virtues, will be assessed against the quality of this narrative. It is an astonishing triumph for man and his imagination.	2005-09-26
US	18450525	R20JTAT3EHHHCR	0520082826	390443573	The Hydrogen Jukebox: Selected Writings of Peter Schjeldahl, 1978-1990 (Lannan Series)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Writing At Full Tilt Boogie	In his introduction, Rob. Storr describes Schjeldahl as fashion's 'watchful scribe'. It's a fine tribute and sets out what distinguishes Schjeldahl as a particular type of poet/ critic in the romantic tradition of Baudelaire and Whitman. So don't pick him up anticipating reams of jargon and esoteric art analysis, or structuralst theorizing. He speaks smart, 'for the fan in the stands'. I never knew Schjeldahl until he came to visit and travel to Uluru with me in 1986. It was a totally engaging 3 or 4 days and I became a fan of his enthusiasms as they then appeared, mostly in Art in America. I scrambled in our library for back issues to catch up on this infectious and radiating intelligence. At the time, he was very big on Kiefer, and in fact, suggested I fly south to Adelaide and catch the German show with its crop of current maestros, then current at  the gellery of S. Australia, curated by the indefatigable, Ron Radford. Fortunately, most of his best writing til 1990 is packed between these covers, and his piece on Kiefer is among them. It's his gift and passion that even people I neither know much about, or do not care for, can be resurrected under Peter's gaze. I don't share his enthusiasms for Schnabel, Warhol, Nauman, Salle, Polke or Koons for instance. But Schjeldahl is generous with his praise and perspicacious with his more cautious  notes, never dismissive or superior. This last quality is demonstrated in his defence of Rothko from the bullying Bobby Hughes. His caning of Wyeth's 'Helga' series pops the balloon on Helga hype and delivers uncharacteristically cool truths about his art being completed by reproduction and of Wyeth's place as'mass reassurer and avatar of the Art myth'. To read Schjeldahl is to be refreshed. He's still at it and enjoying writing for the New York Times. A recent review of Hillary Spurling's great volumes on Matisse will surely make it into his next collection.	2005-09-21
US	18450525	R3RNN9UR0P6VLU	1931541701	587534771	Memoirs of a Fox-Hunting Man	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Languid evocation of Rural U.K. ca. 1900	This is a very good place to commence the life of Sassoon, better known in my country as a great poet of the First World War. Having only the briefest of equestrian experience in rural Dorset and the slightest of brushes with the class structure existing even in a small village, most of Sassoon's marvellously recounted youth falls well beyond this Aussie's radar. I found the quaint rituals of horseriding and foxing fascinating; the fact of a life so given to the pursuit of pleasure, utterly bemusing. Sassoon's everpresent sense of how protected all this was, and how he could place such significance, say, on the purchase of a riding cap, saves this work from charges of class pretension. Though an acute observer, he is amazingly free, in his writing, from the sense of superiority exuding from many of the class he aspires to join.The idyll comes crashing down with the outbreak of War, and the loss of his closest friends are sobering moments, never milked for any self-pity. His writing is exquisite,full of easy phrasings that scroll as readily on his page as the gentle topography of those pleasant pastures green. As eloquent as the succeeding volumes of this series are, I believe this is the most satisfying. Is that, perhaps, because the catostrophe of the trenches was so brilliantly trapped on silent film? iMAGES OF The Great War jittered across our tele screens in the mid 1960s, possibly with the hidden message of consolidating youthful support for our conscription to the Vietnam conflict. I was almost paralysed with fear each Sunday as I sat hypnotised before the unspooling of those oancient black and white atrocities. The effect induced a wholesome loathing of nationalism and all futile expressions on foreign soils.	2005-09-21
US	18450525	R37QBEN7D9O8N7	0679737154	674287242	Pig Earth: Book One of the Into Their Labours Trilogy	Books	5	3	4	N	N	The life and times of the Cocadrille	Amongst the considerable virtues of Berger's,'Pig Earth', is his first transcendant fiction to emerge from his experience of the alpine village in peasant France. This is,'The Three Lives of Lucie Cabrol', which has, this year, been reformatted as a stage piece for British Theatre as part of the celebrations for its author's work, in his 78th year. Berger's prose throughout the peasant trilogy('Into Their Labour') is characteristically taut, blunt and weighted with what seems like peasant wisdom. Contrivance, theatricality, are put to one side. Cabrol, a dwarf nicnamed, the Cocadrille, is an eccentric in a community which is forced, against its will to accomodate her. If cruel judgement is mete upon her, she is, by temperament and ingenuity, capable of exacting just revenge. Berger explains that his relocation from the London art world of the 70s, to the rural life, far from slumming with the poor, was to be close to and absorb the other subject of his life's passion, the underclass: ie. to speak with a more authentic voice. Cabrol possesses total dimension. Berger has a tendency, in some stories of this trilogy, to proseletyze in his anxiety to place before us the plight of the disappearing peasant communities. His preface and endpiece, in this sense, are possibly redundant these days.His work has been out there for some time. In the Cabrol piece he speaks from within, with deep compassion, humour, and immediacy. Her third life is one of the most poignant and imaginative pieces in the Berger canon. There was a tele-doc. on the author about the time,'King' was published, which reviewed his public life. Picture Berger ca 1960, back on the B & W BBC box in a white turtle neck, sparring before an old masterpiece with the grey-suited High Priest of the British art establishment, Lord Kenneth Clark. Even then Berger possessed the crouched shoulder, the flurry of gestures, the idefatigable energy to burrow into the cherished notions of the elite. He refused to assume received wisdom. I admire his tenacity, tact, and honesty. His questing keeps him forever young.	2005-09-15
US	18450525	RB7WLQFJSIU4	0253331374	37198627	The Films of Andrei Tarkovsky: A Visual Fugue	Books	5	1	2	N	N	The Best Yet on Tarakovsky	This isn't a new volume, though it represents the best yet on the incomparable, Tarakovsky. It's a very thourough assessment of his slim film output of unprecedented visual poetry. Tarakovsky's proseletyzing tends to burden his visual statements in the late work. And, I think, the authors are onto the fact that Tarakovsky's emphasis on literary sources within the films, particularly Dostoyevsky, isn't an entirely happy outcome. This is early 90s scholarship and an improvement on my only other source, MarK Le Fanu in its scope, particularly its citations of a range of critical responses from Russia, through Europe and the States. They don't really take Tarakovsky to task for his flaws, professional or personal, but indicate some of his weaknesses which, for too long, have been masked by his own mythologising, as per his treatise,'Sculpting In Time', and that of the Western Arts press who buy into the notion of the martyred, outsider artist, promulgated since early Romanticism. One of the many virtues of the book is its succinct synopses of the films, abetted by great black and white stills, which send me scurrying back to the films to look for things I've missed. No highbrow deconstructivist theorising here. It's as pragmatic as its subject's own films.	2005-09-01
US	18450525	RF1OQXJQ489FN	0618526412	692550038	The Heart Is a Lonely Hunter	Books	5	6	9	N	N	A justly earnt reputation	Reputations! Some so portenuous that the mere title bristles with their scent. Such is, The heart Is a Lonely Hunter, a killer title that has become an inherited cliche, absorbed into mainstream language.It is timeless and gripping. You can sense kinship with, 'To Kill a Mockingbird', and the more florid Cormac McCarthy's, 'Suttree'. It's realisation of ambivalent, struggling, and confounded people is so complete that some of the social economic reforms, petitioned between the covers, would have to actualise before its impact paled to irrelevance. The pace is unhurried. The weather necessarily imposes itself on the lives of its fistful of characters. And as they saunter and scrape through a year, mostly perplexed and projecting their anxieties on the mute, Singer, (an ironic nomenclature) the plot waxes and wanes for each of them. The injustices of power and wealth distribution are given vent by the most driven, most outsiderish two men, who find peace and consolation in the company of the mute. Their political and spiritual impotence at first pulls them close, then segregates them, ideologically and racially. The random violence that so rudely grooves their destinies is casually evoked: dramas to be sure, but absorbed in a literary consciousness that has no urge to moralise or proselytize. It's a remarkable book, if for this alone; its lack of pretension. And, in its very ordinariness it both attains and retains the dignity of its vivid life.	2005-08-27
US	18450525	R3S2L63OOJHUHH	0312420234	482567189	Hooking Up	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Temper, tempered with grace.	Tom Wolfe is what the incomparable Arthur Koestler would have classified as,'a clever schoolboy'. He assumes an ironic stance, a distancing that permits him the last laugh on everything and one he touches. It's funny if you enjoy a flirtation with the power of that sort of priviledge. And, if you are, like most readers, positioned well below his subjects, its quite a romp.: invigorating, off-the-cuff, and ultra smooth, apt for the world he's both a part of and reporting on. For a dip into the exotic monied classes, it's excellent. Yet in quoting his darling 60s guru, Marshall McLuhan, that 'an intellectual is a person knowledgeable in one field that speaks out in others', he must realise he is thus, defining himself as one who has marked the history of the mid to late C20th. His anxious defence of his literary standing next to Mailers' and Irvings', while establishing his predilection for naturalism in literature, paves the way for his own 'self-righteous indignation' which he derides in the chattering class.It's the weakest essay, re-hashing his well known views on art and literature, which here, seem embarrasing.'Two Young Men went West' charts the rise and rise of Bill Noyce, silicon whizz-child of William Shockley, and spreads before us the genesis of congregational management mentality in corporate life, rife in all sectors of the new conservativist businesses of today. Grinnell was the Valley boy who started the seminar, cheerleader approach with the dreaded mission statements. There is an interesting essay on Edward O Wilson's neuroscience and how it levered Tielhard de Chardin's noosphere notions(that  I was enchanted with in the 60s). My favourite piece,'Ambush At Fort Bragg', is a take on the conflation of news, race and military cliches: vintage Wolfe, reality writing about reality TV and its blurred edges.	2005-08-15
US	18450525	R7KDQJL0N0DI0	052154016X	317135491	The End of Art	Books	5	13	15	N	N	Clearing the Temple	I wonder if,'The End Of Art' signals the end of Don Kuspit's tirade against post-modernism. He's not the first to decry the cynicism, the anti-aestheticism, and material poverty of art since the Second World War. However,he is a particularly coherent and vehement spokesman for the return of' New old Masters' and the wall of art market hogwash in which they are embattled. Kuspit's brush is broad.  To set his agenda,he summons Baudelaire's famous descriptions of incipient modernism from 'The Salon of 1846', which I first encountered courtesy of the enthralling Peter Schjeldahl. The worm was in the wood with the rise of new capitalism. Manet and Courbet's'slice of life' paintings paved the way for a levelling out of subject matter and the skills to depict it. Apart from his repetitive depreciation of(borrowing from 'Happening's master, Alan Kaprow)'postart', there are cogent summaries of several luminaries who highlight contemporary art's dilemna. Concurrent with Nietzsche's declaration that God was dead, Van Gogh endowed art with human purpose transforming it into the living religion of god. He is the foil to postart's, vaccuuous Warhol who assimilated art into money, diminishing its spirituality and integrity. Schjeldahl would never decry Andy! Duchamp's nihilistic pessimism, confusing banality of mundane objects with art, has robbed art these subsequent 90 years of its transformative values, to place us'in a radically different emotional place than we are in everyday life - a place that seems beyond life, however lifelike. This is as much liberation from life as it is possible to have while living.' Kuspit does report on the return to the studio of the New old Masters, though I'm wary of some of his nominations. Lucien Freud is indisputable. And I've experienced Richard Este's realism to induce a proximity 'to the human heart for seeming to be more material' than the material world. But no Kiefer while Eric Fischl gets a guernsey? I was fascinated by his courageousportrayals of middle America in the 1980s, but as he's become more suave, an entropy has cursed both his medium and message: his images packing more wallop in reproduction than in life.In Australia,I'd nominate a single New Old Master, Melbournian, John Anderson. It's inappropriate to be cheap here, but Kuspit's on the money with his courageous manifesto, attempting to rid the Temple of its Moneylenders. For more on art visit>rodmoss.com	2005-08-15
US	18450525	R101GGKOMI981O	1405417188	930286977	Big Fun Learning Workbook (Bumper Gold Stars)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Gift Of Many Colours	This in an exceptionally useful tool for the pre-school child. Our youngest daughter was the beneficiary of its thoughtful design and graded challenges in numeracy and literacy, during the recent Christmas vacation, and simply, couldn't get enough of it. Of course, the reward system of the stars added a wee carrot for her exploits. And it was a useful, if not necessary thing, to sit right through each session with her, to ensure she wasn't skipping or getting lax with her level of accomplishment. This was not an oderous task for either my wife or me. I highly recommend the book, as a lead in to fully-fledged primary school, and am in fact, currently searching for its successor.	2005-08-15
US	18450525	RW4TFSGNZMOFF	0394519515	81259534	Day the Music Died	Books	3	1	1	N	N	As Simplistic as early Rock n' Roll	I went for this one on the strength of Greil Marcus's recommendation. It sure-footedly sketches in the rise and rise of the rock industry, the death of payola,and the cynical power mongers who controlled and shaped the industry. But is a very wooden piece of story-telling, and the author has only a standard understanding of language and rudimentary plotting to paint his picture. That is, it has more than a whiff of managerial lingo and much less the dramatic shading and pulse of music. Be that as it may, it's a story with sufficient gravity to pull me to the emmergence of the Fab Four and Bob's nasally folk days.	2005-08-03
US	18450525	R38GPHWV75EUAO	0679736395	883298002	Darkness Visible: A Memoir of Madness	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Articulating Cosmic Loneliness	Waking at 2 a.m with my right arm paralysed from the pressure of my body, I reach once more with my nimble arm, for the solace of Styron's 'Darkness Visible'. The depressed self is a repugnant subject for robust and industrious folk. It was no easy task for the celebrated author to admit the depth and despair he'd succumbed to at age 60, soon after ceasing to self-medicate with alcohol. This is a torchlight into his darkness. Suffering insomnia as I do, resorting to this brief tome is a litmus on my own depths. Its brevity helps me to regain focus in much the same manner as Alain de Bottain's consort with philosopy's consolations, or Gordon Livingstone's sagacious self-help manual,'Too Soon Old, Too Late Smart'. Styron laments the bland banality of the noun,'depression' qwhich lacks the magisterial presence of the older,'melancholia'. When all hope is extinguished there is a crushing of the soul worse than the psychical neuralgia of pain. When the lethargy from synthetically induced sleep is unbearable, when the talking cure is deemed a waste of time by the wraithlike, watching self,hospitalisation, the purgatory of safely sequestered withdrawal, is an answer. Here, the plastic knives incapable of cutting anaemic Swiss steak present no danger for self-harm. Even daily doses of group talks and moronic art therapy bide the time that heals. Despair's   'merciless daily drumming' recedes behind grey routines. Out of unsettling pessimism, out of the tough-minded cosmic loneliness Styron sees in Albert Camus, is aroused enigmatic promise.	2005-08-03
US	18450525	R3E3QQ30N9S0MP	0375414746	226199242	The Clearing	Books	3	7	9	N	N	Swamp Music on a Tarnished 78	Perhaps it's just the context in which you read a book; those you have just read. None other than the great Annie Proulx claimed this to be 'an extraordinary novel, one of the best I've read in years'. Well, maybe I've had a better year than Annie as I can't claim as much for 'The Clearing'. All the promises are there: an intriguing locale aptly described by a native son of the deep South, grissly mill life, brothers rebuilding the connexions of their adolescence after the older one returns traumatised by war, and enough mafia meddling to keep the swamps buzzing with more than horseflies and mosquitoes. Yet, for all the muscular sensuality this yarn doesn't quite make it. The mayhem becomes redundant. The characters, apart from the 80 year old cajun sheriff, fail to breathe. The sundry figures and their purported concerns, ellicit little response from us. The narrative feels mechanical and plodding, the belts on the saws too slack. I wanted more from this work than its picturesque prose can convey.	2005-08-02
US	18450525	RFK01I483EJRX	0140068961	77751959	On the Black Hill: A Novel	Books	5	18	19	N	N	Chatwin Reconsidered	The conjunction of considerable brouha surrounding release with my place of residence in Central Australia compelled me to read Chatwin's ,'Songlines'. The disappointment with this inaccurate and sloppily structured book deterred further curiosity in his oeuvre. What a loss! 'Black Hill' is a brilliant description of rural Wales, resonant with some of the sweetest nature observations, and the minuatae of rural existence. Chatwin is on the top of his game in this earlier work. No wonder his press expected 'Songlines' to be the magnum that would establish an enduring reputation. The subject matter is generated by the curious tale of geriatric twin brothers who have barely ventured beyond a twenty mile radius of Black Hill. Their 80 years are sketched in without psychologising their inhibitions.  For a novel that does explore those dimensions, read Michel Tournier's,'Gemini'. But Chatwin's work has an unhurried pacing spiced with effortless aliterations('spider webs, wavering white with dew, were stitched over the dead grass'...'croziers of young bracken curled up through the cow-parsley')that seem conjured from the mists hanging over the Hill. He's as unobtrustive as the twins, cocooned as they are from the turmoils of the century, beyond their pasture. The years roll on, loved ones and rivals, all pass without Chatwin resorting to Thomas Hardy's melodramatic coicidences to paste the seasons together with wilfull moralising.I mention Hardy as Chatwin refers to him in the text. I did think of John Berger's work at times. And that's fine recommendation from me.	2005-07-28
US	18450525	RVDNUUTDLKAXG	1594480001	659516630	The Kite Runner	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Redemption's Son	My title, with apologies to Joseph Arthur. This is a fascinating novel. In the first, and abiding instance, because so little accounting reaches a popular audience from the troubled zone of Afghanistan.(or, for that matter, any of the 'stans'). And fiction, no matter how closely it follows actuality, is an attractive mode to do the introducing. Religion, ethnicity, and culture are well developed in this instance. You sense the terrific authenticity to the scenes between the men, in particular, if you've beeen anywhere between Istanbul and Islamabad. The frought relationship between the narrator and his father is quite brilliantly portrayed, as is the devastating betrayal of his half brother. My misgivings really seeped in after the 'successful' emigration to San Francisco. The story is none the less convincing, the plot unravels without any change of place. But I became too aware of the author pulling in the strings, and not just of the leitmotif, kite. A tad too many things just fatefully coincide, and I found myself yearning for a bit more of the fabled, Mulla Nasrudin type twist to the logic.	2005-06-23
US	18450525	R3P0DH5MW1QB3C	0375700757	11590154	Cold Mountain: A Novel	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Good Book, Average Movie	If you haven't read Frazier's justly acclaimed novel 8 years on from publication, in all likelihood you've traced Inman's oddessy to his beloved, Ada, via Minghella's film. Frazier's collaboration with the filmaker not withstanding, the book dwarfs the film in the way Cold Mountain's natural force pales even the spectre of the Civil War. This is attributable to the level of artistry brought to the book and the film and, quite bluntly, Frazier's vision and touch is more richly felt than Minghellas' who seems bereft of metaphoric resource. Frazier's language throngs with Thoreauvian detail and would require a director attuned to macroscopic subtleties which might wring some parallel weightiness from the camera. Frazier's conjures the cadence of the rural patois of mid century mountain people. Both the narrator and  characters show reserve through their archaic pronouncements and the euphemistic flourishes about their world. They are at once cautious, and pragmatic. Together with naive, citified Ada, our eyes are toured and educated into the region's affinities by  the feral Ruby, sent to tide Ada after the grief of losing her father. The obdurate Cold Mountain is contrasted with the shifting detritus of the war as Inman traipses its ruined economies and casts of misfits, none more repugnant than Teague and his Home Guard ruffians. That deserters were hunted thus was a revelation to me. The book runs soft at its end, a perfect option for the type of conclusion in Minghella's films. Old Stobrod, a besotted wreck even before the war, survives as an unlikely grandfather, redeemed through his fiddle-playing. This permits Frazier to voice his adoration for the genre. The soundtrack captures this. The music remains with me, along with Jude Law, who now wears Inman's face. For the rest, the mist over Cold Mountain has lifted leaving only Frazier's singularly sublime anti-war text.	2005-05-30
US	18450525	R1DXQD3VM4ZWU3	1594480117	645788960	The Zanzibar Chest	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Soul Of Darkness	As a journalist, Hartley has a well-honed delivery with pithy, pertinent detail.There's ample frontline reportage in this volume, gob-smacking Goyaesque grotesquerie, all the more horrific for me, having only the scantiest of awareness about it. The guy owns up to his professional position enough to make us wary of voyeuristic charges. There's recreational sex and drugs. Not treated with Hunter Thompson gratuity, who often viied with his subject matter for the spotlight. There is a lot of appalling violence here, atrocities that are far removed from nice, first world sympathies, which, if moved at all, might sponsor a hungry African child through an aid organisation. The desperation in the writing returns to this. Hartley is as scathing on black africans, violating themselves and just as hard on himself. He's inherited his father's infatuation with Africa. It is through the the diary of his father's great friend that Hartley pauses to endistance himself from the intoxication of successive, biblically proportioned catastrophes. These threaten to consume him as they have many of his colleagues. The diary concludes days before its author was killed over half a century before. But his travails bespeak the tragedy of colonial powers and, as Hartley comes to recognize, these earlier acts  return in the post-colonial scene in fresh, demented ways.Trying to unravel the details of the 'friend's' life takes Hartley to the country of his birth and helps him frame the even greater influence of his father, who stalks the story. It's a catharsis, a recouperation of sorts, and, I believe, a generous gift to all those who have suffered with him.'My Traitorous Heart' is another Africa story that comes to mind, for those interested in coming to terms with the power shifts in countries revolting against White supremacy. Hartley's topic is of just too great a magnitude to allow his ego to run wild. For all the bloodshed and the journalist's parties during it, this is a very sobering account of East Africa in the 1990s.	2005-05-20
US	18450525	R3PT8NMMPIXN40	0312421974	42109996	This Side of Brightness: A Novel	Books	5	18	21	N	N	Watching The River Flow	'This Side of Brightness' is a throbbingly good read which trawls the making of the underclass in trenchant prose. The voice is unmistakably McCanns', though the subject matter recalls the marvellous McCarthy's,'Suttree' and my favourit Ondatjee,'Skin of the Lion'. The fact of 'blackness' cuts through this tale. Using time shifts in alternating chapters, we reach the intersection between 1916 and 1991 as the third generation descendant of an Afro American tunnel builder, Clarence'Treefrog' Walker, copes with his family's checquered past. His grandmother was mowed down by car, his father murders the driver and is in turn done in by the cops. His mum turns to drink and then smack which kills her. He's raised by grandfather, Nathan. Some years after he marries and has a child. The rock in his life, the old man dies.He spins out and the wife, unable to tolerate his disintegration, abandons him taking the child. The gradual recognition of these connexions unfolds against the nefarious netherworld of New York's subterranean culture. Once an acrobatic genius on sky-scraper scaffolding, with his world imploding,Treefrog enters tunnel life, a descent with a radically different drive from the heroic grandfather. Treefrog rescues an attractive, drug-addicted whore from the violent clutches of a fellow denizen. Making love, a seeming reconciliation of emotions for his mother and wife, he is determined to, once again, scale the brighter world. The seemingly futile gesture which introduces him on the first page: freeing a heron from the frozen Hudson River, is given fresh resonance.	2005-05-17
US	18450525	R1UFRCQ1BCU870	0786886323	399419494	Carter Beats the Devil	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Matinee marvel	Readers who crave the titillating type of tale of the 'da  Vinci Code' would be satisfied with Gold's take on Carter. You can sense the author's enthusiasm in researching his subject and the spirit of playfulness, at the core of stage magic performance, is the beneficiary of this resourcefulness. It's a 'ripping yarn' with more than an eye and ear on potential film rights: easily translated into the kinds of media that were challenging Carter's career, and would eventually replace it as a large scale theatrical event. The battle between good and evil reaches its nadir with the struggle of magicians backstage, after Carter's greatest feat. Good, of course in such tales, triumphs, and Carter rides away with his beautiful belle to happy days. Likening this, as I note, to 'Kavalier and Clay' is an injustice to the tonal depth and rectitude of Chabon's masterpiece and its empathetically drawn main cast.	2005-05-11
US	18450525	R2YMX83GPD0KHK	0141001828	624836488	In the Heart of the Sea: The Tragedy of the Whaleship Essex	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Pacific Blues	Epics rouse the heroic, the tragic, the self in extremis. I, for one, am content for others to scale the Himalayas, the Andes and endure privations that leave me cosily to tend the garden.But I don't in the least mind reading of other's travails, especially when the writing can convey the spectrum of sense data that challenges the participants.'The Heart of the Sea' recounts one of the great whaling stories of the C19th, and without subtracting from the ethos of Nantucket's society, quite plausibly suggests how, if the tragedy of the 'Essex' could not be avoided, could have unfolded differently had the social mix been different. A relatively recent publication of one of the survivor's accounts, adds to Nathaniel Philbrick's grasp. Without studious fuss, he embeds relevant data on what happens to bodies deprived of water and food over extrended periods, cannabalism, the manner by which whaling crafts were built, navigation means of the early C19th and fullsome images of the spectre of the whale and its value to the industry of those times. Above all there is the shadow of Mellville's mammoth, Moby, a momentous story that surely guided Philbrick's magnificently evocative re-telling.The salt is on every page and the sea's rhythmns shape the irrevocable pace of the writing. Utterly consuming. Readers excited by this book might look at Alexander McKee's,'Death Raft' about the survivors of the French frigate,'Medusa' which wrecked only a few years before the 'Essex'. While not rivalling Philbrick's poetic language, it is worth a dip.	2005-04-23
US	18450525	R2GYX1J4DBE5DN	1565844386	848250981	The Spears of Twilight: Life and Death in the Amazon Jungle	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Caring for Rainforests	I hold this book with high regard. It's a rare ethnographic accounting of an indigenous society in the upper Amazon, as per the mid 1970s. The empathy Descola brings to these people is exemplary, and one soon senses a  writer of rare discretion and self-reflexive capacity. The details of these lives are vividly told in prose that never gets burdened by their daily occurence. The book 'breathes' and Descola's place in these encounters is evinced sufficiently to give the sense of trust that must have existed during the experience. The indigenous world view is absolutely fascinating and reminded me of indigenous views I've encountered in Central Australia(and about which I'd recommend Michael Jackson's,'At Home In The World'for anyone who savours the poetics of the telling). The material on shamans, on valour, on retributive killing, on dreaming, or the spirit world have the very depth and veracity that Casteneda's Don Juan books, purporting to be reports of similar zones of experience during the same decade, lack. Levi Strauss may have inspired his pupil, Descola. Descola repays Levi Strauss, his subjects and the reader in raising the benchmark and restoring the reputation of anthropology.	2005-04-14
US	18450525	RQEW4NX1AMCLT	0868066354	38416602	Illegal Harmonies: Music in the 20th Century	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Gentlmanly Probing	Without an entry for,'No Undue Noise', I'm piggybacking on this other collection of Andrew Fords'. He is an 'art music' composer. However, I know him only as the genial host of an excellent, urbane 2hour weekly musical smorgasborg on Radio National, simply titled, 'The Music Show.' That is, until I stumbled on this on this collection of his writing, mostly from the same radio's inhouse magazine,'24 Hours' and the Sydney Morning GHerald. His writing interests express the same range of interests in classicist musos and composers, Blues balladry, jazz and the like as heard during his airwaves hours. Some columns are perpicacious reviews of books on artists, Stravinsky, Glenn Gould or Wilfred Mellor's enthralling,'Angels of the Night'. The small cache on Dylan Literature is precscient. I agree that Greil Marcus's graceful writing is some of the best musical literature, albeit on the roots of Bob and the Band, and that he's resurrected the reputations of Doc Bloggs & Frank Hutchison much as Nick Tosche has for Emmett Miller in his finley wrought reliquary,'the Twisted Roots of Rock n Roll'. I'm not as gracious about the gushy hagiographies of Paul Williams. Ford writes very well on Joni Mitchell, honing in on her greatest albumn,'Blue.' Other essays I find rewarding are,'In Praise of Difficult Art', 'The Erotcs of Music'(a redressing of Sontag's'against Interpretation') and his parting address to students at the universitry where he once lectured,'Signing Off', which should be read by every lecturer in the arts who still twitches with creative energy.	2005-04-12
US	18450525	R2I232NGOZG8FX	0060566760	660551460	Hell at the Breech: A Novel	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Reaping What You Sow	Tom Franklin's exegesis of a rural fracas that occured during the late 1890s in rural Alabama is one of the most evocative and memorable fictions of recent years. His ability to non-judgementally seep into the consciousness of both the stressed and wretched, share-cropping hicks, the town 'gentry', and the conscience-stricken Sherrif Waite with parity and probity marks a rare and resolute sensibility. You can rejoice in Franklin's raked and sifted prose which yields the stench of the farms, the miasmic squelching earth and dense overgrowth, the idiomatic toungues of the Southerners, and the interwoven yarns that never drag the plot as it gallops to its lurid conclusion. And there's more! A wonderful coda; a retrofitted tale coming the author's way after he'd done his tale. This embellishes his work's rivetting, humane account of awry events and the motives which spawned them. More please!	2005-02-17
US	18450525	R46HOR029C5QH	0684857715	150756681	American by Blood: A Novel	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Bierstadt in Blood	With esteemed professor of the Old West, Larry McMurty, in the saddle endorsing 'America By Blood' and Huebner's ancestor as an anchor in this fiction, the credentials are auspicious. The book rattles through the year of retribution killings after the 7th was annihilated at the Little Big Horn massacre. The dirty realism of the army camps and the technicolour, slo-mo detail of the various skirmishes are set against Bierstadt-type landscapes and meteorological detail, the muddied, desperate consciousness of the three army scout protagonists, and the out-of-control command. It shares the sense of futility McCarthy inspiried in, 'Blood Meridian', without the epic scope. The prose is just as powerful without recourse to pseudo-biblical phrasing. And that's appropriate given that this isn't about mythologising and aggrandising either the indigenous, the settler cultures, and least of all, the perfunctory role of enlisted men carrying out duties from above. Gradually, after successive skirmishes, the army boys question both the responsibility of these duties and the location of 'above'. Terrence Malick's astounding film,'The Thin Red Line'more than once came to mind. Huebner's jacket photo wears a 'don't-mess-with-me'scowl that his great great grandfather would approve. This is where blood lust should reside; between covers. Great read.	2005-02-09
US	18450525	R1ERM6QCXROZFD	3908247551	127620966	Bill Henson: Lux et Nox	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Land of Soft Nox	Henson's coffee table book on pre-teen urban lassitude is a very pretty chapter in his long and lustrous career. Sumptuous nocturns, and interstitial urban zones for forbidden groping, underage drinking and driving - the alley, the drain, under the freeway - familiar props for Henson's fans. The painterly sfumato, the 'stagelit' trees and grainy, graffitied concrete walls seem impossibly tasteful and in exact measure to the questions we ask ourselves, thumbing the alternative pages of sullen-skinned, sombre adolescents of indeterminate gender. A long night's journey by the humming city, where, with the sun hinting on the final page, not much has really happened: crysalids awaken! For more on art visit>rodmoss.com	2005-01-30
US	18450525	R2R3AHFO4A1NTC	0292776241	55224768	Sculpting in Time: Tarkovsky The Great Russian Filmaker Discusses His Art	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Instant Light	Thames & Hudson have triumphed with what collectors might regard as a limited edition, artist's book.This isn't the place to start chipping into Tarkovsky. It is more the devotee's piece - a touchstone which alludes to the magnificent ediface of his films: all which return the viewer to their world with a deeper, more spacious vision, an expanded present moment. In 'Rubelov','Solaris', 'Stalker', and,'Sacrifice', to name my favourites, he re-invented the epic with sustained inquiries into our transience without heady verbalism or vanity. To grapple with his own thinking about his achievements and how he positioned himself as an artist, one should seek out,'Sculpting In Time,'penned towards the end of his relatively short life. Recently, French documentary-maker, Chris Marker('Sunless') compiled a stunning homage to this Russian cinematic master. Bits of Tarkovsky's aforementioned book, and excerpts from his diaries appear with the reproduced polaroid snaps(the present book's theme)which fall into two geographic zones, Italy & Russia and are bookended with short tributes by two Italian friends. Every effort has been made in layout to convey the darkened atmosphere in which the illuminated materiality of these world's float to the viewer's eye. And in images barely larger than matchboxes this scale has some of the hallucinatory power of his movies. The layout & medium insist on episodic, fragmentary framing. Tarkovsky's films privilege the same exquisite framing with a sensual appetite for textures above narratives that makes us feel newly arrived at a primary experiencing of the world. These polaroids could have served as his flexing towards film projects: even their outtakes.	2005-01-24
US	18450525	RXKUAWGDLUX4S	0811213668	256202992	The Emigrants	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Memory & Truth	Sebald cooks up an impressive little set of Jewish expatriates, whose fates, without him directly saying as much,are rudely altered by the impact of German politics and military power during the first half of the 20thC. The great fondness with which the author details their life outlines and his putative connections to them, casts a convincing spell with the possible exception, near the end, of the letters from his painter acquaintance's mother which pile such an idyllic image of pre WW1 Germany as to challenge credibility. He uses a device popularised by John Berger in his collaborations with photographer,Jean Mohr in the 1970s. Amongst his 'lives' are nestled a multitude of blurry photos which contrive to authenticate his fictions. Inspite of photography's claims to veracity, these are deliberately softened so as not to distract from the text, which,with its lucid sweep, may have derived from long and sober reflection from photos of places and people long since perished.This is a sustained and powerful manner to express loss and enforced displacement.	2005-01-13
US	18450525	R3TXFFK0UZJZDS	0300089104	745955732	Farewell to an Idea: Episodes from a History of Modernism	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Modernism and its Followers	Clark opened me to Courbet (and later Michael Fried} for which I am grateful. Here, his sleuthing unearths fresh and welcome insights into another brace of 'old' subjects. His intimate relationships to key works makes for a rivetting and informative read. The spell of his writing is such that, though I'm not attracted to any of the artists whose work goes under his scope, I found, in each instance, my sympathies were elicited. If the questions asked of the art are, whose mentality is recorded by these paintings; what action or situation yields the views which painters perceive and represent as an aspect of reality; and who are the protagonists and antagonists reflected within the painting's points of view(as Clark has) then you have an enticing context in which to frame old fuddy, duddy David, the cumbersome peasant women of Pissaro, Cezanne's androgynous 'Bathers',the congested spatial tricks of Picasso's cubism, the nihilistic utopia of Suprematism, and the vulgarity of Abstract Expressionism/ The New York School(my abbreviations, not Clark's). The close raking over the painting's content, context & textures is first rate, and convincing. Highly recommended.For more on art visit>rodmoss.com	2004-12-14
US	18450525	R1U8T63W2KLWOL	0743228154	819450417	Chronicles, Vol. 1	Books	4	5	7	N	N	How To Surmount the Creative Block	Bob tables his early influences with a good deal of reflective vigour. The book drops us into that first break into the recording studios. It is of such import that it is further fleshed out as Chronicle 1 concludes. The rendezvous with Danny Lanois in New Orleans is detailed with welcome disclosure from Dylan; a time when a mid-career stalling is overridden by several musical tips given to him years before, but gestating until this moment. Although Lanois's methods & the cadre of muso's assembled at the makeshift studio promise fruit, Dylan hits a 'wall'. There are other occasions in this book when he candidly replays for us how he surmounts such walls. In this instance, an unusually early rising for him and his 'beautiful wife'(whose identity is protected) is followed by a bike ride into New Orleans' hinterland and a bracing encounter with a crack-pot store keeper whose opinions & manner disturb Bob's mind set, prompting the writing of the extra songs for 'O Mercy', that give it its masters' stamp. All these tales are conveyed with a wry, off the hip frankness. They are studded with lists of important, if occasionally obscure musicians Bob feels indebted to. Spider John, Robert Johnson,Woody, Ramblin' Jack, the towering Van Ronk, we knew all of these. I had to wait for Martin Scorcese's awesome,'No Direction Home' to glimpse and sample the divine voice of John Jacob Niles. His film is a virtual accompaniment to 'Chronicles'. Not many folk today would fess up to actually liking Rick Nelson or Harold Arlen. Anyway, devotee that I am, no sooner had I read the book than I returned to its front, following the effortless looping provided by the author. As a footnote, Sean Penn's reading of the book is very, very good. His voice was the means by which I first heard it, and having done so, it is hard to think of anyone, save the author, voicing a superior rendition.	2004-12-07
US	18450525	R33KUKL6Z2JBCY	0520071328	402468447	A Study of Vermeer, Revised and Enlarged edition	Books	5	8	13	N	N	Snow Melts Over Vermeer	In early adolescence I fell in love with a young girl who inhabited a picture frame in the corridors of our high school.Our gazes were mutually netted. In 1982, whilst touring Holland, I detoured to den Hague to renew that engagement, only to see in her stead a plaque indicating she was on loan to a Texan museum for 12 months.But it's some consolation to encounter Edward Snow's study of Vermeer, whose cover is adorned by that image of my adoration. Even better, Snow is an adept reader of Vermeer's vision of inner equilibrium and imperturbable calm. Lawrence Gowing provided my 1960's art college template, but I think no serious admirer now should overlook this book. The subtlety of thought and feeling in Vermeer has found appropriate eloquence. Vermeer's 'hermetic inwardness','magical silence', his 'unity of being as structured by perception', his contemplation of women caught in precious domestic moments of equanimity & pleasure in the happiness of their mere visibility, are given appropriately intimate treatment. There are telling parallels made with Degas's pursuit of feminine imagery. And Snow isn't averse to pointing out Vermeer's 'failures', which, he argues, reflects the artist's proclivity for negative reflection.' I'm sorry I can't enthuse over the recent film,'Girl With A Glass Earring'. In spite of the set pieces, and the attractiveness of the actors; the enigmas of Vermeer remain opaque.The book, however, is an absolute master stroke. For more on art visit>rodmoss.com	2004-11-17
US	18450525	R2T35H4JAF4WGI	0691002754	862742555	The Painting of Modern Life: Paris in the Art of Manet and His Followers	Books	5	32	45	N	N	Rutting In  Nascent Pop Culture	Seurat's,'La Grande Jatte' spelled the limits of petti-borgeoise modernity. For the previous 20 years, the Impressionists, led by the incomparably gifted, Manet, had attempted to make images describing this class, their appearance & behaviour. However,the Impressionists were bourgeoise & inevitably more aligned to their own class, and with the simultaneous rise of the dealer-critic system. Thus the steady sequence of shows, interviews & promotional literature issuing from managed,'creative' artists became the commonplace we experience in the arts today. The new class disappeared from Impressionist art when it was absorbed into the bourgeoise.Witness Monet's shrewd disavowal of the figure as he opted for his less offensive, touristy canon of landscapes. The detatchment of Manet's barmaid at the Follies, 1882,and the inanimate, even catatonic people in Degas's pictures of this period exemplify the new class. Clark argues that the emergence of this class was a product of the rebuilding of Paris by Baron von Haussmann. The old work centre of the city was guttered during the rejig, the trades & graves moved to new peripheries, and commercial entertainments, leisure & pleasure grew in their place to cater for this new white-collar mass public. The questionable role of prostitution is crucial to Clark's claims for this class and it is on this question that Manet is pre-eminent. This era announced the rise of capitalism and the spectacle society of which Clark is a major critical voice. Prodigious scholarship, marvellous insights, with fascinating, rarely reproduced 'secondary' art works to flesh out the theme; I can't think of a better way of teasing back the past to view the present. For more on art visit>rodmoss.com	2004-11-10
US	18450525	R1JHA45AQL79BJ	0674535812	545373507	Lipstick Traces: A Secret History of the Twentieth Century	Books	3	7	8	N	N	The Breathless Pursuit of Protest	I'm still wondering what it is about 'Lipstick Traces' that has so polarised Amazon's readers. I don't consider it a great bit of writing/journalism, and I agree, with the benefit of 20/20 rear vision, that the author who wrote this tract in the early 80s might well reconsider the emphasis he'd placed on Johnny Rotten as a perveyor of Dadaist angsty pranks.In the epilogue, he makes clear that the story was very much a personalised view,(stemming from his student days at Berkley in the early 60s) rather than a serious rewrite of history, which gives him some leeway about the provisionality of his own opinion. I enjoyed the stuff on Huelsenbeck, on Debord, on Hugo Ball. I liked the graphic layout and the photos of main suspects & reproductions of 50s & 60s Situationist texts. I feel a more judicious editorial hand might have produced a less repetitive text, though the side alleys were fantastic, nevertheless. Marcus has written tighter, tougher stuff than this & his breathy, blow by blow accounts of Dylan and his sources are wonderful.For more on art visi>rodmoss.com	2004-11-03
US	18450525	RXI4CAVMIOPUJ	0520073010	425914162	A Fable of Modern Art	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Ripping The Yarns	Ashton's enquiry into the linkages of Modernism's prime suspects is swift and decisive. The paradigm is established early, the dilemna espoused at the birth of modernism by one of its advocates, Balzac, in his novel, 'The Unknown Masterpiece'. Cezanne, Rilke, Kandinsky and old 'sexy pants,' Picasso are combed over and fitted to Ashton's enmeshing tale. A French flick,Jacques Rivette's,'La Belle Noiseuse', of the early 90s made an excellent stab at filming Balzac's novel in contemporary garb. Its drawn out enactment of the creative process has only been surpassed by Tarakovsky. The coincidental advent of these two revisions could be regarded as a railing against the prevailing ethical vaccuum in the visual arts: a time when pastiche and design, and digital morphing have drowned complexity, structure, spatial issues & the hand crafted disciplines - not to venture notions of enchantment or 'spirituality' which post-modern agendas seem bereft of. Perhaps we are already staring from the terrors of the abyss, referred to regularily in the text. The balancing act between abstraction and mimesis, between chaos and surplus information, individual vision and profound feeling of the heart, the role of Nature's laws governing the arts, the emphasis on process above content; Ashton eloquently articulates the crucial growth nodes of Modernism. The ironic footer to this resides in the caption,'Unknown.' Balzac's book is likely 'unknown' as is the aforementioned film, and lastly, Ashton's marvellous analysis, which might spur the art novice with a set of useful questions. For more on art visit>rodmoss.com	2004-10-26
US	18450525	RT96SA3PLFX99	1862075077	990069766	Desert Divers	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Like The Desert Air	One hundred terse chapters in not many more pages. Lindqvist has packed a memoir together as challenging as the desert itself. It presents in much the same manner as its companion piece, 'Exterminate All The Brutes,'in a pace rather like air  stirring from the baked sand soon after the sun has set. It's a deceptive pace,as it has been slowly generated from a sustained meditation on the literature of French colonialisation, mostly in nineteenth century North Africa, and the way it issued a romanticism with the place (from the 19thC, via Pierre Loti, Isabelle Eberhardt, Andre Gide, de Saint-Exupery, & the author's own confessed romanticism). Lindqvist's research is as poetically pithy as his intermittent memoirs,and the direct, present-day observations during the field work as he traces his literary heroes. His own probing dreams unite the book until the final sentence, when he finds himself firmly gripping empty air. This tension between the received evidence of the literati,his research, and the evidence of his senses, is suitably chastening(though not as diabolically disturbing as colonial violence during the study of Joseph Conrad in 'Exterminate the Brutes'). He recognises that the writer's were, each in their own way, able to live out everything not socially accepted in their own countries & that spiritually, 'the colonies functioned as a vent, as an escape, a place to misbehave.'	2004-10-19
US	18450525	RSBPR36506CQQ	0393036839	543255108	What I Have Written: A Novel	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Fable For Our Time: Noah's Ark	I thoroughly endorse the remarks of Steven Reynolds regards the seriousness & elegance of Scott's work. Scott has an established place in Australian literature. His extensive catalogue of published poetry & novels has given him unrivalled tenure in the zone of language capable of gripping visceral levels of relationships & their corrosive power. However, I want to promote Scott's most recent fiction, Warra Warra.Perhaps wary of his literary position & of being pigeon-holed as a writer's writer, he has directed his deft skills at the political & geographic Australian landscape with this ghost story. Forgive the pun, but I am haunted by this book and the realisation that so many Australians endorse the heartless agenda of the current government's attitude to political refugees and its pre-emptive agression in recent military forays under the guise of a war on Terrorism. The book opens with a set of tender images of a sleepy, backwater town, Warra Warra(translating as 'Bugger Off' in some indigeous language of N.S.W), the denizens about their tasks, blithely unaware of the outside world. The country and its people are wrapped in bracing, fresh language, as affectionately evoked as the spell woven by Dylan Thomas in Milkwood. This is abruptly terminated by a plane crash. The shock of falling debris & burnt flesh is devastatingly related. The means the townsfolk adopt to cope with the situation is a triumph of imagination, as much as it is of Scott's wordplay. The core action unravels 'the hallucination produced in the living by the unconscious action of the mind of the dreaming dead.'About 300 total. That individual characterisation is minimal allows us to attend to the collective consciousness: this cocooned community's response to the ghosts of the wreckage, to absorb their otherness, grounding them, and assisting their passage to rest. This, like much of Scott's work, is a prescient, compelling and compassionate piece.	2004-10-13
US	18450525	RWRWTZ6Q1XV8	0679737235	83693140	A Painter of Our Time: A Novel	Books	5	11	12	N	N	A Writer of Our Time	Berger's luminous intelligence, his passion, his capacity to imagine, is one of the joys of my life. That he wrote,'A Painter on Our Time' in the mid 1950s reveals his prodigal vision ( a moment, incidentally, when he made the crucial career decision to opt for writing over painting, on the basis that he could reach further & more powerfully in print). Odd, for me, that I have so recently come to this, his initial, published work.It is as prescient as ever; the dilemna of the creative stirrings in a being, the dilemna between art & life, searchingly and exactingly laid out in the journals of his fictional, Hungarian, self-exiled painter. His social conscience, his memory, his ambitions are convincingly unpacked, and with the narrator  as guide and amplifier to these confessions, we journey to where we know from the books early pages,Lavin's return to tumultuous Hungary. Berger wrote an afterword to the book in 1988, disclosing, amongst other things, the actual friends who inspired his fictional artist. With them he had shared the sense that pain is the source of human imagination. It is not to be avoided, refused, repressed, and regarded as undignified. In mid-career, Berger opted out of the hurly burly of the English media to embrace the underprivileged peasant lives of a small, French mountain community, from where he has written about their lives with the penetrating sympathy he demonstrated in his fictional Hungarian. For more on art visit>rodmoss.com	2004-10-07
US	18450525	R3Q2TT1ZH8E2KD	0679736565	139375572	And Our Faces, My Heart, Brief as Photos	Books	5	18	19	N	N	Berger's Faces	I'm a committed Berger devotee, owning or having read probably every book he's written. 'Our Faces,' is the book I've returned to most often over the years. I feel enlivened by Berger's language, his passions, his insights into art, the crispness of his poetry, his feeling for form; and this book is so elegantly paced & presented. He communicates his finest perceptions about greatly loved paintings and makes earnest & eloquent efforts in establishing their meaning for him. The process invites the reader into his own heart, deepening the world, making it more palpable. The piece on Caravaggio is astonishing, a set piece of concise art writing, free of jargon(as is all of Berger)and superior, to my thinking, to any of the spate of Caravaggio books that hit the shops at the turn of the century. For more on art visit>rodmoss.com	2004-10-06
US	18450525	R12J29YJ5L3SUG	0446978574	196296414	Hanta Yo: An American Saga	Books	5	21	22	N	N	Bebe Hill's  Arrival	Forget the carping reviews about purism or betrayal levelled at this fiction. In every respect, it is a marvellously full accounting of life,and a remarkable feat of storytelling by author, Bebe Hill. Unprecedently, I wrote & told her so, plus a few questions, after I finished it. Her correspondence was suitably humble and honest. This book was recommended to me in 1979 by a Lakotah man who claimed it the best literature available about his people. I can't verify that & have no need to. I carried it, reading it to myself and aloud to my fellow travellers as we drove the vast passage from Ohio to San Franciso, in the Fall of 79, imagining the scents inhaled by the book's characters. The book is invigorating, respectful, ethical, realistic and confronting in each of these matters.	2004-10-06
US	18450525	RQGH799U6RAAB	0448229757	5163904	Dogs bodies	Books	4	4	4	N	N	He Who Barks Last	I was initiated into the face of Yankee public power through the pages of the then(1970s) radical & radiating music rag, Rolling Stone. And no one tapped the arteries of power gone awry more than the curious & formiable coupling of Hunter S Thompson & Ralph Steadman. Steadman's career seemed allied to Thompson's throughout the 70s, their frenzies wedded to Nixon's political campaigns, & cavorts with Hell's Angels. Occasionally, tucked away in Letters To The Editor, we sampled Steadman's bizarre philosophy in erratically numbered,'Gardening hints.' For a suitably distorted biography of the guy, his 'Between the Eyes' is an excellent primer. You'll see he names the German dadaists as his forebears. George Grosz springs to mind. But Ronald Searle & the Goons lurk midst his mordant wit. 'I Leonardo', 'Sigmund Freud','Alice In Wonderland' list amongst his achievements. His is an ego that needs larger than life subjects to vent his rage. It comes as something of a relief to find him in less than overdrive with the hilarious & intimately observed collection,'Dog's Bodies.' It's a manual on coping with dogs: the full Heinz catastrophe, & should be available with your mutt's licence. If, like me, you've been intimidated by dogs, felt their rabid fangs in your flesh, or had your sleep reduced by their lunitic howling, you'll revel in Steadman's advice for doggy discipline. His signature splatter techniques & ejaclatory ink-blobs often proclaim a defiance to a hostile world. These marks find a natural target in the scumbag arena of Dogland.	2004-10-05
US	18450525	REUWIACSV5K86	0140040196	512448425	The Penguin Leunig	Books	5	10	10	N	N	More Salving Than Your Common Gideon's	Leunig. Australia's art beacon. Now, under his tutelage, also available in animated form. Who, once they have seen his 'Book of Common Prayer' will forget the subtle & disquieting man supplicating before a duck accompanied by the adage,'The kneeling man knows, as everybody does, that a proud & upright man does not and cannot talk with a duck. So the upright man is rejected. The man kneels. He humbles himself. He becomes more like the duck. He does these things because it improves his chances of communicating with it.' Leunig's humble folk with tippler's snouts, inhabit crepuscular rooms & scapes presided over by a sickle moon. It's a world that pivots on pathos & it's post-nouveau emblems are tear-shaped, coiled & cashewed in foetal embraces of unpruned maternity. Leunig's ouvre is a paen to small, transitory joys rather than an angry collection of petitions to the Big Fella. Leunig is benignly in awe of cosmic peversities without being obsequious: humour with angel's wings. Creeping into the crevices of despair, he draws a sad, slow breath, sighs & carries on. It's universal stuff while indubitably Australian. Friends in America and the UK have fallen for this guy as much as any Oz fan, who harbours a choice Leunig selection under the fridge magnet.	2004-10-05
US	18450525	R3JOI71QGNT8K4	0868407445	941447270	Modernism's History: A Study in 20th Century Art and Ideas	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Grand Review of Modernism	Bernard Smith is a brilliant writer & art historian with a significant position in Australia's cultural affairs.This book is the result of mulling over the art of our times for the best part of 70 years. His books on the art of Australia & the Pacific Basin have long been the standard texts on the subject. He is still a lively correspondent in the small, intellectual Australian magazines. Even given these accomplishments, I was mightily impressed with his overview of Modernism, presented herein. I'd stored his auto-biography,'The Boy Aeodotus' by my bed shelf longer than I care to admit, deterred by the endistanced tone he took in referring to his formative self in the third person. Recently overcoming this, I delighted in his ability to communicate his brave and passionate curiosity, and, breathlessly, plunged into this tome. His notion of the 'formalesque' was initially an obstacle, until I was absorbed by his argument. He positions this 'style' as emergent in the 1890s & exhausted by the 1960s (coincidental with the 'new' brace of critical art writers such as Leo Steinberg & Michael Fried). In addition to art movements, Smith gathers social, political, economic & philosophical trends to urge his case. The sub-headings to each chapter, in themselves, would make this a superb intellectual venture. His history of art theorizing is a masterful summary that will clear the nostrils. His emphasis on Surrealism's impact on the 20th century is well-placed. This is vigorous, pacey writing, free of catch-cry paternalism and reminiscent of the generous, Olympian vision of Jacques Barzun's,'From Dawn To Decadence'. For more on art visit>rodmoss.com	2004-09-15
US	18450525	R29VL5PKH0KZFK	0671623737	942886451	NIGHT TIME LOSING: Going to the Mat Against Political Pawns and Media Jackals	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Gaining Time	Bohemia is alive & kicking in Ventura's,'Nighttime Losing Time'. The writing seems to come from direct sexual & musical experience, and has the power of revelation. I'd never heard of Ventura, but noticed on the jacket that post-Jungian sage, James Hillman had endorsed it. A long time fan of Hillman's brilliant insights, I jumped into Ventura's world & came up gasping for air. It is sprawling & rabbits on in some regional Texan patois. But precious & pretentious it is not. When I'd resurfaced I sent it directly to the few friends I knew would rejoice in the sincerity of Ventura's quest for the sources of his creative gifts, the 'places where they ain't got scales.' It took a decade to revisit this book as I was anxious that the initial read may have been a chimera, a projection of my own crises. But no. Friends confirmed its originary clout. And no; it rutted in my creases yet again. It may help if you dig Butch Hancock, Terry Allen, Joe Ely, or Willie Nelson as their music is the soundtrack for Ventura's honkytonk heavies. Narrator, Jesse Wales's apocalyptic vision (p 375) swims in the blood meridian so epically summoned in Cormac McCarthy's magnum opus of that name. Unlike McCarthy's remorseless dudes destined to endlessly repeat their bedevilled lives, Wales finds regeneration and possibly redemption through understanding the meaning of the pain and loss he and his coterie share. Move over Balzac & Baudelaire, Ventura has muscled entry to the dark domains, in the breathless pursuit of ecstasy.	2004-09-07
US	18450525	R3IICSQ2BBVH0B	0140152091	178228631	Granta 37, The Family: They Fuck You Up	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Family Viewing, M rated	A set of seminal short pieces by a literary who's who of contemporary literature. The stories range far & wide, with all the pain & joy imaginable. I've re-read this over the years, everything in it, completely gob-smacked each time by Mikal Gilmore's revelations about growing up in his Mormon family & enduring the pain of brother & murderer, Gary. His 'Shot in the Heart' is the full account, but this condensed version here is just as awesome. Not all the tales are woeful, but William Wharton's piece on 'Field Burning\\" is similarily harrowing. If you've read 'Birdy' or 'Dad' you'll have an idea of warton's no-frill writing style that somehow works its way into your own conscience, making the act of reading simultaneously,an act of compassion. Remarkable stuff.	2004-08-20
US	18450525	R12PGZ4DQF8WYC	1740510658	634787518	Broken Song: T.G.H. Strehlow and Aboriginal Possession	Books	5	6	7	N	N	scholarly & readable	We, who live in the cenral desert region of Australia, and like it or not, have continuous contact with indigenous Australians who really define the town's existence (as they number about one third of its 30,000 people), are wary of the outsiders who presume, in their commentary, to know more about 'us' than we do ourselves. For instance, Bruce Chatwin's 'Songlines' was enormously popular as an armchair ride into the deep affinities indigenous peoples, here, have with their respective 'countries' within Australia. Chatwin's writing was not based so much on any primary experience as it was on the work of Ted Strehlow, the subject of Barry Hill's terrific and readable opus. Strehlow was a son of the red centre (to borrow an expression from another son & author/pioneer, Kurt Johansson) & nurtured by the local Arrernte people, indeed raised with Arrernte & German(the language of his missionary, Lutheran parents)as his first language. As an acaedemic claiming privileged access to knowledge from his indigenous contacts, he eventually proved a problematic figure in most of his public walks in life. It's a fascinating tale, unravelled by a profound wordsmith who one senses, was both enthralled and revolted by Strehlow. Strehlow's book 'Songs of Central Australia', is a curious amalgam of Arrernte lyrics recast, perhaps, in some northern European, epic mode. Whatever interception or invention he brought to the lyrics to elevate them to the respected company he felt they belonged to,the lines leap from the page. Hill's do too. Both Chatwin & Hill evoke the authority of Strehlow in their respective titles. I know which one I'd rather travel with. Want more on this region? check>rodmoss.com	2004-08-12
US	18450525	RNYVXVLX4E8AI	0679776397	598725160	The Spell of the Sensuous: Perception and Language in a More-Than-Human World	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Sensuous poetry	Abram's tract compares literate & pre-literate cultures, laments the loss of sensuous contact to the 'inside' and 'underneath' of our world's being and our 'presence' in it. In a bid to recover that contact, or even pose the question of its loss at the requisite depth, Abrams traces the western intellectual and linguistic structure through to twentieth phenomenologists, Husserl, Heidegger & Merleau-Ponty.It's a lucid presentation with enough personal experience to communicate to a reader coming to these big thinkers for the first time.I hope he reaches beyond converted environmentalists already actively redressing the deterioration of primal life and primary contacts. The penultimate chapter on our relationship to air is worth the price of the book alone; rhapsodic and persuasive. The Greeks, says Abrams, effectively desacrilised breath & air by introducing vowels into their written language. Vowels certainly have not impaired Abram's poetic utterances. This is a learned,sensuous and spell-binding book. I don't want to overclaim the author's importance in trepidation that he may be seen as yet another avatar of millenial disquiet. I worry, somewhat, that in areas he has not encountered first hand, he has trusted sources such as Bruce Chatwin, who himself was interpreting other people's field work. Given the largesse of the author's riches, this is a minor quibble.	2004-08-12
US	18450525	R2BALZ66X6B5R2	1878972154	812198819	A Voice Through a Cloud	Books	4	4	5	N	N	The pain principle	Denton Welch writes directly from his physical being. Moments of epiphany and exaltation are consumed by momentous revulsion. It's a rare encounter, breathing an adjectival power and acute memory, as compelling as it is painful. His life-altering bike accident is related in such a way that the act of writing, the detailed reach of his vocabularly, enacts part of his recovery, the stable point of a dramatically oscillating, and untrustworthy world. An abiding image is that of his despair with his doctor, upon who he seems almost paranoically dependant. When the doctor shifts to another village, semingly out of reach, you can feel the pounding in the pages of Denton's heart.	2004-08-06
US	18450525	RPUITE56BBV6Z	0972652949	33487160	The Nature of Order: An Essay on the Art of Building and the Nature of the Universe, Book 4 - The Luminous Ground (Center for Environmental Structure, Vol. 12)	Books	5	34	36	N	N	wisdom through patience	I'm not an architect, though I do paint a bit and presume to teach. A friend from Ohio undertook one of Alexander's architectural courses, 20 years ago, and posted me notes on Alexander's colour theory. I've used them ever since. But the articulation of this guru's understanding of the experience world & how we process it & make art in and for it, has become keener, more subtle & concise over the years. This is a very, very profound teaching without any messianic overdrive. Indeed, its the patience and humility of Alexander's process of discovering essential rules & roles for making art, that are most profound and the enduring feature of his presentation. And the book's own look exemplifies his quest for the beautiful.I'm not so taken with the reproductions of his own painting, however. I can't quibble with the twentieth century masters he reproduces as evidence for enduring beauty. A fabulous book! For more on art visit>rodmoss.com	2004-07-30
