US	19216479	R7SB2YRMAKUOQ	0802140491	824836248	The Grove Companion to Samuel Beckett: A Reader's Guide to His Works, Life, and Thought	Books	5	15	41	N	N	A major work	This is the definitive work on Beckett. You should buy ten copies of this for all your friends. This work is coming back in vogue. Be ahead of the curve.	2005-04-19
US	19216479	RESFHXMS37S3K	6308836958	305932327	Cockahoop	Books	5	0	0	N	N	she is lovely	Cerys Matthews was the lead singer on Welsh band Catatonia for ten years. In 1998, she was on the cover of every magazine in the UK. She was the biggest star from Wales in a while. That led to a duet single with countryman Tom Jones that appeared on his Reload album. Catatonia could never capture the height of success of their middle years, and never really interested American listeners. A few years later she comes out with her first solo album, which is part American, and part folk music. Matthews came to Nashville to work on this album. There are some original songs like \\"Caught In The Middle\\" which are great. Another song by The Handsome Family, which is an interesting choice if not inspired. The record sounds like a country album, and also a little like The Pogues. Cerys Matthews has always had a distinct voice. This record ends up being similar to Nina Perrson's A Camp. It is an unusual and standout album.	2004-11-17
US	19216479	RUVPE03X6Y96V	0452285623	629560787	Food Court Druids, Cherohonkees and Other Creatures Unique to the Republic	Books	5	9	11	N	N	A major book	This book is very funny. Robert Lanham has the eye for social types one meets in the world. This book is more expansive than the hipster handbook. The section about \\"how gay is your dog\\" is great. The drawings are impressive.	2004-11-06
US	19216479	R3GS5UMJKTXQDT	1400044006	943036028	Checkpoint: A Novel	Books	5	10	12	N	N	A quirky book	This book is a little like Baker's Vox from a few years ago. It is a minor success. There should be more books about killing George W. Bush. I hope that this is the first in a trend.	2004-09-28
US	19216479	R2F7QYIXJ49DD4	1582343853	372577569	Rats: Observations on the History and Habitat of the City's Most Unwanted Inhabitants	Books	5	4	7	N	N	King of Rats	Rats are entirely indestructable. Their will to live is stronger than humans. They survive by eating our garbage. They took over NYC a few times in the 20th century. While rat facts are interesting, most people live by the myths. Robert Sullivan gets to know the war between city dweller and city rat. He spends a year observing an alley in lower Manhattan. This book is funny, smart, horrible and entertaining.	2004-05-20
US	19216479	RGAW7TWHYY0KN	1400060303	956247749	Why Courage Matters: The Way to a Braver Life	Books	5	3	3	N	N	This man should be president	Here is another book by John McCain who is a real writer. He seems very knowledgeable too. That comes from reading and direct experience. He seems very interested in the future of America. He has a lot of guts. He combines true intelligence and real heart. Many people think that people can be motivated only by fear. McCain shows us that courage is the only way to deal with life. McCain is a thoughtful eperson. He should be president one day.	2004-05-19
US	19216479	R2T7DX1LB6P8FO	0880641584	346433849	Games of the Blind	Books	5	2	2	N	N	An overlooked gem	This yarn centers itself around the character and the voice of Paul Avery, a professional psychologist and convicted murderer. From the jail cell Avery tells the long story of his life beginning with unusal parents, a trip to Italy, and his failed first love at fourteen with an older married woman. He moves to Chicago and lives with his Uncle's family, where he learns sadism with his younger, chubby female cousin.<br />The claustrophobic narrative is recalled in pleasant loops of important and detailed fragments. As a psychologist, the obsessive Avery tends to over-analyze his motives and his actions. All which tend to sound like a self-indulgent person who has never heard of stopping for perspective and compassion.<br />Avery then leads us on a baroque joruney on the drak origins and the meaning of the murder. We never know whether we are being conned or not. We are are being manipulated to a certain extent. Sullivan adds a few theoretical interludes in this three part tragedy, which adds to the anti-academic tone of the whole book.<br />Things get interesting as Avery meets Michelle, then has an affair with her, and devises to kill her husband. Michelle is Avery's patient. It's strange how he has a great understanding of her, but little self-awareness of himself. But this is a temporary understanding, because Avery has been a trapped man in a maze for quite a while. His killing of the wrong person, a professor, is yet another sign of his self-delusion. Avery lives in an imaginary world, but never comes to terms with society around him.<br />A major theme of this book is the impossibility of mastery over anture: whether through technology or science. Evelin Sullivan is an important writer that needs a second look. Sullivan picks up the ball where Nabokov left it, and she projects an interesting and literate novel herself.	2004-04-26
US	19216479	R1T30M4F0K7RN8	0679754792	180945773	Genet: A Biography	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Gay rollercoster ride	Following the rags to riches life of Jean Genet is an interesting reliving of French literature and history. Edmund White is certainly capable of empathy and psychological understanding for Genet, unlike in his biographies if William Burroughs and Allen Ginsberg. Though White makes the mistake of trying to incorporate some Michel Foucault, the homoseuxal philosopher, into his own penal insights into Jean Genet, the works and the man. Other than that fact, this handsome book is one long guitar solo at the altar of Genet.<br />Most of Genet's life is well-known, and partly used as the subjects for his novels. Genet was an orphan, had foster parents, and went to reform school. He had a bunch of early gay relationships, and he stole a lot of books. In prison Genet wrote Our Lady of The Flowers, and later shows it to Jean Cocteau, who is pissed off because he didn't write a similiar work first.<br />Genet wrote five novels and a few plays around and during World War II. They books are originally published anonymously. The books become an overnight sensation. As Genet becomes old and bald, and when the flamboyant Cocteau becomes bored with him, heterosexual Sartre and multisexual Simone de Beauvoir, both sort of yuppies of their time, become enamoured with the idea of hanging out and slumming it with Genet, a real thief.<br />Sartre saw him as a good example of his existential philosophy, and wrote Saint Genet. This book of his life came out when Genet was in his mid-forties. Genet doesn't write very much during the last years of his life. He does become involved with the Black Panthers and Palestinians.<br />Genet lived in Tangiers with his young Kiki. He wrote a final book that was banned before his death in 1986.<br />Genet's life was one long homosexual rollercoster ride. Genet's long life is an achievement which White gives a literary form in this tribute and gentle biography. As far as literary biographies go, this one is up there with the biographies of Oscar Wilde, Sade, and Frank O'Hara.lde, Sade, and Frank O'Hara.	2004-04-26
US	19216479	R1L1ZX809M9G63	0440214920	960976737	Drawing Blood	Books	4	1	3	N	N	The smell of cyberspace	Less vampiric than Lost Souls, Drawing Blood conveys a tale about a youngman with a dark past. Trevor is the survivor or a brutal familial murder/suicide committed by his father, Robert McGee. Trevor, like his father, is a writer of a comix called Birdland. When he gets to New Orleans, he meets Zachary Bosch, a computer hacker. They hang out in bars. Travor and Zachary have an unlikely monogamous sexual relationship (the author is female) that brings these two outcasts closer. At one point, they find their way into the cyberspace where they both face their pasts. Trevor meets his father and figures out that they share the same murdering impulses. Drawing Blood embraces all that was once very hip at one point with the body piercing set. She has obvious read William Gibson and John Shirley before setting out on this book. It is good. But this book shows that Poppy Brite is a better writer of vampire stories than just another cyberpunk follower.	2004-04-26
US	19216479	R3AVKXK44Z8G29	0452274613	717324872	User: A Novel (Plume Books)	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Manlust	In the center of the transvestite bars, Times Square, the male huslters, the heroin addicted, the crack smokers, User rises out of the ashes and mainlines a beautiful fix. This is a story of a Times Square that doesn't exist anymore, and has been driven more underground.<br />Bruce Benderson is an important American writer. He tells the story of Apollo, heroin user and hustler, and his long descent into his private hell. Apollo's story is both tragic and tender. We care about what happens to him. Benderson brings us into his real life.<br />The fragmented narrative which switches point of view from character to character: from third person to first and to a stream of collective consciousnessthat forms a mosaic that both outlines &quot;being on drugs&quot; and creates a realism of urban strength.<br />Apollo gets in a fight with Casio, a bouncer, and that sends Casio to the hospital. This makes Casio's son, Baby Pop, want to seek revenge on Apollo. Baby Pop is Benderson's very original and moving creation, who lives in the bus terminal at Port Authority. He studies math and dreams of going to college.<br />Apollo is on the run, spiraling down deeper into the bowels of Times Square and Port Authority. This book has strength and is rich in deatil, written directly, and with great heart and compassion, recalling the better days of that other underworld figure and prisoner, Jean Genet.<br />Bruce Benderson definitelt shows us the frontiers in a wolrd where people only pretend to be hard. This is also a farewell song to old Times Square that has been captured in such movies as Taxi Driver. That sleazy urban cesspool has been bought up by Disney and turned into a mall. After 1996, little of this world still existed. It's all very underground and in strange corners.	2004-04-26
US	19216479	R1TDCGITIZCHSG	1564781658	340274659	Journalist (American Literature (Dalkey Archive))	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Ambitious	One of Harry Mathew' most ambitious and strikingly original novels. His fifth novel, The Journalist, confronts our present day disillusionment with reality and the art of writing. I recommend this novel for its summoning back of all those delicious qualities that I havd found both attractive and mind-expanding when first encountering Mathews' work. The concept is simple: the narrator keeps a journal to help him organize his life. But nothing is ever so simple. His ordinary life as a European businessman receives amazing scrutiny as he becomes meticulous in recording his life's events, shrews details, and his daily thoughts. The characters of his journal include his wife Daisy, his mistress Colette, his son Gert, and his friend Paul. Those designations don't in his life don't last long as the journalist worries about relations between his wife and Paul and his mistress and Gert.<br />The journalist soon decides that his journal needs subcatergories: certain sections for the objective facts and other parts for his subjective thoughts. As he organizes the journal into more severe categories, the secret meetings around him proliferate. As an Oulipian, Mathews has emploed a poetical structive to create a world unto itself and has refined and updated his language with this novel which, in the context of contemporary Modernism, rivals both Nabokov's Pale Fire and Calvino's Mr. Palomar.	2004-04-26
US	19216479	R1NGSPGH3RZN1V	0932511767	911298683	The Alphabet Man	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Great writer	An ambitious book about a serial killer is as unwelcome as it is target market sensitive. No, it's not another American Psycho, although that is good in its own way. This serial killer happens to be a poet as well, who also channel surfs through the pages of America as a traveling salesmen. The Alphabet Man is first of all an experimental novel which combines concrete poetry, humor, and a convincing main character called Clyde Wayne Franklin. He is convincing as her is despicable. The narrative goes wild as Franklin finally loses his mind entrely and commits suicide in prison. What happens in between is an exciting, offensive verbal journey that goes straight into the darkness of blood and sexuality. 100% evil.	2004-04-26
US	19216479	R37QDBITYMS44T	0670033057	525621656	Ten Minutes from Normal	Books	3	10	15	N	N	Implosion	More evidence of the disaster of the GW Bush presidency. Karen Hughes is not a really good writer and not really very forthcoming. She is a good shill for dead politcal slogans. More evidence that Texas is an evil place, Texas is more of a threat to America than Bin Laden. GW Bush has failed in every aspect of business and diplomacy. You wouldn't know this from reading Hughes' hagiography. I will never voted again for someone from the south or who has a southern accent. They all seem fake. They all seem like con men. I start thinking who is getting ripped off.	2004-04-25
US	19216479	R36A276RFLG36N	0060926236	331872168	Cosmopolitan Greetings: Poems 1986-1992	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Interview	I met with Allen Ginsberg on his 1994 book tour for Cosmopolitan Greetings: Poems 1986-1992 (HarperCollins). I was accompanied by George Scrivani who was an editor, who created Hanuman Books with Raymond Foye and Francesco Clemente. I didn't get along so much with Allen Ginsberg as is evident in the following. I interrupted him every time he launched into a soundbite about the importance of the Beats. He often questioned me about my questions. In the interview, I stressed the importance of obscure Beats and none beats including Kenneth Rexroth, Robert Duncan, Jack Spicer, Bob Kaufman, Ray Bremser, and Irving Rosenthal. In fact, my mention of Sheeper being the best work of the Beat Generation, seemed to annoy Ginsberg. Later that day, Ginsberg read &quot;Hum Bom!&quot; at Candlestick Park and was booed by the apolitical and conservative baseball fans.<br />Alexander Laurence: Cosmopolitan Greetings is your new book of poems which collects your most recent work: 1986-1992. Your poetry seems to have changed stylistically, especially in your delicate attention to language; I think of your earliest poems, such as Howl, possessing a complex use of language, utilizing many adjectives, and being influenced by Surrealism, yet the new writing is much more transparent, direct and simplified.<br />Allen Ginsberg: More or less, with the occasional touches of a surreal sequence of images. There are a number of poems in here and in White Shroud which are examples of complicated language or complicated dream situations. Within some simple poems are some surreal word chains, particularly &quot;I Went To The Movie of Life,&quot; &quot;Grandma Earth's Song,&quot; and in the Jacob Rabinowitz poem: &quot;Put me down now for not hearing your teenage heartbeat, / think back were you serious offering to kidnap me / to Philadelphia, Cleveland, Baltimore, Miami, God / knows, rescued from boring fame &amp; Academic fortune, / Rimbaud Verlaine lovers starved together in boondocks houseflat / stockyard furnished rooms eating pea soup reading E. A. Poe?&quot; I want to have lucid clear pictures in my poetry rather than jump-cut, cut-up, chaotic flashes. I want my poetry to be like a cinematic movie. The magic comes not from the speed up of the words, but the magic comes from the fact that it's an imaginary dream vision. The prototype of that is Shelley's &quot;Triumph of Life.&quot;<br />More at ([...]tockyard furnished rooms eating pea soup reading E. A. Poe?&quot; I want to have lucid clear pictures in my poetry rather than jump-cut, cut-up, chaotic flashes. I want my poetry to be like a cinematic movie. The magic comes not from the speed up of the words, but the magic comes from the fact that it's an imaginary dream vision. The prototype of that is Shelley's &quot;Triumph of Life.&quot;<br />More at ([...]	2004-04-23
US	19216479	RLT7SKQ98TA9L	0312976976	673602732	The Millennium Girl	Books	5	5	7	N	N	NYC man	The very dapper Coerte V. W. Felske lives in New York City. He is the author of three novels: The Shallow Man, Word, and now, Millennium Girl. There has been no shortage of controversy surrounding the publication of his work, since Felske writes about subjects that are upsetting or morally objectionable. His first amusing novel, The Shallow Man, was about a man, Nick Laws, who was obsessed with models, and gave us the term &quot;Modelizer.&quot; Right away, Felske's work seems destined to be filmed like authors like Nick Hornby and Chuck Palaniuk, who I think he somewhat resembles if any. His novels were a pleasant shock to me when I read them years ago. Felske was also good at coining terms and creating comic situations. He took his sharp observational skills and turned the focus on Hollywood and its hangers on, in his second novel, Word. Heyward Hoon is an unsuccessful screenwriter who gets hired by a producer to procure some women. Again, this wild and humorous look at what it takes to make it in movies is given the Felske touch. Both novels are now being made into films. His new novel, Millennium Girl, is mostly about gold diggers, and women who travel around the world in search of wealthy businessmen. Bodicea is a girl from a small town who is just about at the end of her window of opportunity, her twenties, and is desperate to marry a &quot;walletman&quot; before she turns thirty. Poignantly, Felske shows us a glimpse of this jetset world where people like to mix love and money. I talked to Coerte Felske recently in a cafe in Soho, where we talked about the entire buzz around his work.<br />AL: There is a certain sensationalism about your work. Are you ever worried that there isn't enough literary content?<br />CF: I think my books are, for the modern age, as literary as it gets. You can talk about the masters of old: I would guarantee that Doestoevsky or Fitzgerald, or anyone like that, wouldn't be writing like they did back then right now. It's much more of &quot;sound bite-y&quot; world. I don't think that I'm trying to adapt a style for that world, but I'm a product of it. There's so much more information being thrown at us. I wouldn't discount my books as being non-literary. If you look at today's writers, can you find someone who's delivering page for page the way I am? It's hard to find.&quot;sound bite-y&quot; world. I don't think that I'm trying to adapt a style for that world, but I'm a product of it. There's so much more information being thrown at us. I wouldn't discount my books as being non-literary. If you look at today's writers, can you find someone who's delivering page for page the way I am? It's hard to find.	2004-04-23
US	19216479	R3B2TXT1C2Y0	1841954128	404279069	My Loose Thread (Cooper, Dennis)	Books	5	3	8	N	N	Bring it on	Dennis Cooper was born on January 10, 1953 in Pasadena, California. He grew up in Los Angeles. He was the director at Beyond Baroque. He lived in New York and Amsterdam for a few years. In 1984, Cooper moved to New York City. In 1987 he met his Dutch boyfriend who he soon followed back to Amsterdam. While in Amsterdam he finished writing his first novel, Closer, which was inspired by a postcard that featured an image of Mickey Mouse carved onto the back of a young boy. Around the time he wrote his second novel, Dennis began writing journalism for a number of newspapers and magazines.<br />Dennis then returned to Los Angeles around ten years ago. He is now known for his cycle of five novels that started with Closer, and continued with Frisk, Try, Guide, and Period. All the books were stylistically different and but had young people as their subject matter. He has published a number of books of poetry, most was later collected in The Dream Police. Dennis also published a book or short stories, Wrong, and a book of critical writings called All Ears.<br />In March 2000, Dennis' work was celebrated at NYU Fales Library with a panel of noted critics of contemporary culture including Professor Avital Ronell, Stephen Malkmus from the band \\"Pavement,\\" Thurston Moore, guitarist with \\"Sonic Youth,\\" and authors Bret Easton Ellis and Lynne Tillman, among others. The year 2000 was a threshold year since he was done with the cycle. Dennis was collaborating on other projects for a few years. Now he's finally published a new book, My Loose Thread. It is a very short book. It focuses on the thoughts of Larry, a teenager, and his friends. Larry has been paid to kill a fellow student and retrieve his notebook. There's also the strange relationship he has with his younger brother, Jim. My Loose Thread is a mystery and a challenge to read, especially in this age of teenage aggression and sexuality.	2004-04-23
US	19216479	R1J2D3O78AU3GA	0415157145	717145571	The Tel Quel Reader	Books	4	0	5	N	N	the writer	Affective criticism would also be able to critique Paradise  because it shares the idea of &quot;indeterminacy&quot; which may be a question that Sollers raises. It is significant that Harry Mathews insists that the reader is the real creator instead of the writer, for the reader lets the book exist once again. Everything that Affective criticism stands for is to make the reader more involved with the text. Wolfgang Iser says &quot;Communication it literature, then, is a process set in motion and regulated, not by a given code, but by a mutually restrictive and magnifying interaction between the explicit and the implicit, between revelation and concealment.&quot; Some of the problems with an Affective reading are that we bring to much of ourselves, our psychology, to make words mean. Would a book be different if one was tired, happy, or angry? Derrida and Sollers would be against anyone who interjects themselves in the narrative, in the chaos of play, rather than letting a system (text) play out its wishes on the reader. To read a passage like this one by Sollers, one must give up their self-identity for the moment.	2004-04-23
US	19216479	R2NIYX7OYGIWHN	0394177843	901890296	Snapshots.	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Nouveau Roman	It seems that when this book came out that it was very radical. It was very visually oriented. It was like looking at paintings. This is not Robbe-Grillet's best book, but it distills what was so great about him. When I was a younger writer, this stuff was a big influence. It was very existential, minimal, and bare. I think that some of this style is better suited for film.	2004-04-22
US	19216479	R2IZY5BZLEW9FA	0618246940	988312797	The Best American Nonrequired Reading 2002 (The Best American Series)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Memories	The problem with some of these collections is that many of us who read magazines have already read those articles that appear in these end of year collections. The piece about Marilyn Manson was also in the Jonathan Lethem music collection too. It's good that Eggers has included some stuff for McSweeneys.net, comic books, and other non-mainstream sources. Those are usually the better ones anyway. I like Marc Bolan too.	2004-04-22
US	19216479	R2JUGNC62FI14F	0876450559	528215434	Three Wogs	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Prose Style	This is early Theroux. He is probably at his best here. This book is timeless and seems like it was wriiten in a different age, not the 1970s. Just the sentences alone are beautiful to read.	2004-04-22
US	19216479	R1QY44XCD50E1W	0786711299	517935640	Vapor: A Novel	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Let's fly	This is a zany book. The notion of people being lighter than air is funny. It has a lot of twists and turns. It is fantastical. If anyone can win the academy award by rigorous training is farfetched. But still this is a great book, and almost as good as Nude Men. I heard that they are making a movie out of this book with Sandra Bullock. Anna Graham sounds like a Sandra Bullock character. I hope that is good too.	2004-04-22
US	19216479	R3P6DAO03A6SJG	1568581629	544258900	Tapping the Source	Books	3	4	7	N	N	Huntington Beach	I think this is the first and only book that I have even read that takes place in Huntington Beach. It is sort of sensational. Some of it rings true. I graduated from high school in 1982 and this was my peers. HB has changed since then. This evokes how it used to be: lawless, outlaw, and free. Now it's just another consumerist beach town with hotels and umbrellas.	2004-04-22
US	19216479	R1OBPMYIF6VNSZ	0679722769	705442339	Ulysses	Books	5	2	8	N	N	Bloomsday: June 16th, 1904	This is a book that I have thought about almost all my life. I read it first when I was a teenager, and have read it ten times since. Or more. It is a book meant to be re-read a few times. Just like Lolita, and several other books, things in the end don't make any sense in the beginning. Things refer back and forth. A lot about panthers and vampires. History is a nightmare. I have many people from Dublin in my life. None of them ever bothered to read Ulysses. But by reading Ulysses, I knew much about Dublin by my reading experience. I met some members of a band JJ72 who had went to the same school as James Joyce. This is a great book. People who don't realize that are missing out. They just don't know to read. A lot of literature was once about references and quotations. If you don't get the references, that's not the books fault.	2004-04-22
US	19216479	ROYJC91LOZSDE	1880985268	661726287	The Consumer	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Meat	I find this book really interesting. I don't think that it is a work of perversion. It is just written from a certain perspective. It is a really dark vision. Parts of it remind me of Beckett. You don't have to be a serial killer to read about serial killers. This is a book that I return again and again when all other books seem too pretentious or fake.	2004-04-22
US	19216479	R2WRRUN9JULSS0	0393324508	139199664	Porno (Norton Paperback)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Let's make a film	Irvine Welsh is one of my favorite writers. His last few books GLue and Filth were difficult to get into, even though they were risky books to write. They were funny and strange. They were a walk in the fields. Porno is more in line with Trainspotting, Acid House, and Ecstacy. Porno even takes the characters of Trainspotting and meets them ten years down the road. Like Faulkner wrote about his little town and used some of the same characters, one gets a feeling that Welsh will be writing about Renton, Sick Boy, and Begbie until they die. In this book, Sick Boy and Renton are still up to their underworld lives. Sick Boy is making a porn film. Begbie is out of jail and seeks revenge. The comedy starts then. It is one of Welsh's best books.	2004-04-22
US	19216479	R6IY2V9SJBCTM	0393318680	603345732	Filth	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Bad lieutenaut	This is a funny book. It's also the most difficult to read since Maribou Stork Nightmares. Welsh uses more tricks and interruptions in this book than in most. You never forget that you are reading a book. Welsh is known for his good taste in music and occasional DJing himself. In this book the main character likes so much bad music like Phil Collins, Michael Bolton, and hair metal. It reminds me of American Psycho.	2004-04-22
US	19216479	R2FR6WYFMIF0S2	0306812274	161661538	How To Lose Friends And Alienate People: A Memoir	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Truth is ugly	I hadn't read this book for a while, and I saw it laying on the floor, and I picked it up. I read the whole thing agian. It was brilliant. For anyone who has wroked in New York and worked in publishing, these stories have a ring of truth to them. Lizzie Grubman is a creep. Tina Brown is a creep. Most of these shady magazine characters have very little redeeming qualities. They have no soul. They will have to deal with their empty lives down the road. Toby Young is funny because he believed in the myth of America. Sure there are rags to riches stories all the time. More often there is not. Toby Young is a valid writer. This book should be read over most of the crap that is being published right now.	2004-04-21
US	19216479	RJV6OT51P77PZ	1400032016	682280766	The Hipster Handbook	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A must read	This book started out as a satirical book about Williamsburg types. Now it is taken as a hipster bible. Now people refer to it constant as a measuring stick. Some character said &quot;deck&quot; on the Sopranos last week.	2004-04-21
US	19216479	R1IVNOG2RR1OQ1	0385495234	555691073	Breakup: The End of a Love Story	Books	5	3	4	N	N	The Subject	This is a story known to everyone. How Catherine Texier dealt with it is more interesting than the subject. In one way, it's a difficult book to read. All that stuff about killing the other woman. In other ways it's about true feelings. It tends to be emotional and multi-dimensional. It is not free of contradictions. It is not being easy on the self, and giving in to the completion of revenge fantasies. I think that people have trouble with the self-portrayal, because they want to see a strong woman somewhere in these pages. Instead Texier makes herself more exposed and more vulnerable. You can either not like it, or admire her for taking the risk. Pat endings all always dull anyway. Stories of failure are great stories. Stories of success are really a lie.	2004-04-21
US	19216479	R2V144EY2C6ZBD	1560255633	201022350	Scary Monsters and Super Freaks: Stories of Sex, Drugs, Rock 'N' Roll and Murder	Books	4	14	14	N	N	True Crime	You have probably read some of these articles over the years in magazines and weekly newspapers. Here are some great stories of the last twenty years. Stories about John Holmes and Rick James are great. Mike Sager goes into great detail to give a rounded picture of all his subects. The stories about journalists Janet Lewis and Veronica Guernin are pretty intense. Some of this stuff is about obsessions we all had about ten years ago like Easy-E Eric Wright and the Heaven's Gate Crowd. It's funny how time flys. Check it out.	2004-04-21
US	19216479	R7V3OK5ABQNZ2	0671758004	860896416	Audrey Hepburn: A Biography	Books	3	5	5	N	N	A Promise	With a face that still resonates over the McCarthy era of Hollywood, Audrey Hepburn was an elegant image of purity in a corrupt world. Unlike Elizabeth Taylor, Audrey's image never tanished and she a backseat only to Marilyn Monroe as Hollywood's most famous leading lady.<br />Audrey's life is mostly public facts: she married a second rate actor, Mel Ferrer; won an Academy Award for her first film, Roman Holiday, and a Tony for Ondine; earned five Oscar nominations; had two sons and obsessed over her career and family; and remarried an Italian playboy. But only an Audrey insider like Harris can go beyond the well-known myth making and draw a complete picture.<br />Previously it has only been the subject of major speculation, but Harris confirms that Hepburn had several affairs with her leading men such as William Holden. The biography isn't all gossip though. Harris covers the later movies and Andrey's work with UNICEF. Although this prjects her Mother Teresa side, what is really interesting about Audrey is not her war experiences, her rise to fame, or her post-Wait Until Dark family life, but the period between 1952 and 1967 when she made fifteen great films including Charade and Two For The Road.<br />Harris recognizes Hepburn's peak in the 1960s and uses the bulk of the book to detail this period of her life, but his knowledge doesn't protect him from the obvious shortcomings in his own work. He does tend to be repetitive. He's not much of a prose stylist. Beyond that, there is another major gripe to raise: there are only sixteen pages of Audrey photos in this book, and they don't go far beyond the standard postcard set. Obviously, anyone reading a Hepburn biography craves that classic look and an illustration of the movement from film to film.	2004-04-21
US	19216479	R3L9T0UURXO1YD	1573660086	96505233	Degenerative Prose	Books	5	3	6	N	N	Great stuff	I think &quot;The Seasons&quot; is a fine story. This book represents a time when writing was pretty wild in the early 1990s.	2004-04-21
US	19216479	R1YD4ZH7VQ6DC6	0195297512	454378992	The Jewish Study Bible: Featuring The Jewish Publication Society TANAKH Translation	Books	5	13	19	N	N	Review	I can't believe anyone has finished reading this book. I am still in the middle. So far it is really interesting, and besides the King's James version, it is the best translation that I have read. It gives you a lot to think about. I have no comment really about how good the translation is, because I am not an expert on this sort of translation. But the notes are very interesting and informative. It seems to be a very modern interpretation by the the experts. It deals with all the studies, contradictions, and errors. It keeps you aware of all the different authors of the Tanakh.	2004-04-21
US	19216479	RO3UUS7VB9BEC	0375421246	547348939	Victorine: A Novel	Books	5	4	6	N	N	A Great Book	This is a great book that mixes history with biography. Catherine Texier has written many interesting books in the past. This is another fine one.	2004-04-21
US	19216479	R3U0184IQMTRQA	0802134033	87733850	My Mother: Demonology: A Novel (Acker, Kathy)	Books	4	19	26	N	N	Reading, Writing: Hell	Notes from September 9th, 1991: &quot;Acker talked about taking a piece of writing and jamming with it, sampling it, altering it. A phrase, a word, a section. The way jazz is made . . .not interested in the assignment of meanings, of the formalizing academic way. Thinking of working with structures or getting to intuition are similar. . . &quot;<br />I know that I was exploring many formal things in writing when I encountered Acker (being interested in Georges Perec and Oulipo). I was writing haikus, pangrams, always starting with a structural idea in mind, also being familiar with Queneau's Exercises in Style. Kathy was pushing me to be more intuitive, raw, exposing the unconscious. She emphasized Surrealist types of strategies. She wanted us to write every word and every sentence in an interesting way. She wanted us to explore dreams. Dreams were a big deal with Kathy. I see My Mother: Demonology as one long extended dream.<br />Kathy wanted us to break through with writing, to reach some key moment, some epiphany, or some crime, whatever. Jill St. Jacques explained this to me as exhausting oneself in thought, coming to a wall, then going beyond, and getting to another wall.<br />I had been reading some books by Michel Leiris and I had finally got to Guilty by Georges Bataille. Also after reading Illuminations by Rimbaud, I realized what a big influence he was on me, and most of the poetry that I had written between 1987-1992. Surrealism and Rimbaud. The story that I wrote in 1991, &quot;The Seasons,&quot; was referring to Rimbaud; and slightly to Jasper Johns. I also wrote a few things in imitation of Leiris.<br />The next meeting Kathy talked about the writings of Blanchot and Borges. She talked about the &quot;surface story&quot; and what is it about. She made us think about how certain parts work together. Kathy told us to read parts of Rimbaud. I read many of Rimbaud's prose poems. Some of them are indecipherable. I wrote something in response to &quot;After the Flood.&quot; It was like a mad lib, substituting words. Our take-home assignment was to take the poem, &quot;Devotion&quot; and to make a story out of it. I wrote something vague influenced by Leiris again. I forgot to do a few of the assignments so I decided to read whatever I had been writing. That would do instead.<br />Once Kathy was totally bored with our stories. She said that we were not trying to be good enough. We need to really think about what we are doing when we write. She looked at us: &quot;Why are we writing? Why write at all? Writers do not make money. Some writers are beautiful technicians but do not have any soul.&quot; Kathy gave us Paul Auster as an example. She talked about Blanchot's &quot;Madness of The Day.&quot; Kathy played tapes of music in between what people read. Like two people would read, then a tape of NWA, two more, a tape of Nine Inch Nails, etc.<br />Kathy Acker's next few writing assignments:<br />&quot;An ex-lover is dying. Describe what they say to you before they die.&quot;<br />&quot;Write an paragraph on what is happening in American fiction in the 1990s.&quot;<br />&quot;The only thing I want is all-out war.&quot;<br />Kathy Acker, My Death, My Life (p. 233)<br />Kathy made us read a section of The Unavowable Community and Madness of the Day by Maurice Blanchot. She talked all day about Blanchot, Bataille, and Klossowski.<br />Blanchot: &quot;The narrative voice is a voice that has no place in the work.&quot;<br />Kathy talked about Acephele which was a group of writers that included Bataille and Laure. Much discussion about origins, identity, ouroboros, labyrinths, transcendence, eternal recurrence and the body.<br />Blanchot: &quot;Writing is the absence of the work as it presents itself.&quot;<br />Another KA writing assignment: she wanted us to write a film treatment. She also suggested that we take a part of Justine and turn them into a film treatment. Kathy also did a similar thing with her treatment of Dario Argento's &quot;Suspiria&quot; in My Mother: Demononlogy (1993). I later saw another Argento film with Kathy. She seemed to know his films well.<br />Next she wanted us to bring a foreign language dictionary of a language that we didn't have any particular proficiency in (I didn't take part in this assignment). She made us translate our original text into a foreign language. Then we translated it back into English without help of the dictionary. Kathy was always pushing us into creating nonsense. Does anything exist that is truly random and without meaning? It is a very hard process. Because words can be analyzed and interpreted. She liked the writing to veer off into babble. I think she was exploring the idea of a surface translation, like with some of the French stuff she did with Laure's letters to Bataille and earlier with the Persian poems.ento's &quot;Suspiria&quot; in My Mother: Demononlogy (1993). I later saw another Argento film with Kathy. She seemed to know his films well.<br />Next she wanted us to bring a foreign language dictionary of a language that we didn't have any particular proficiency in (I didn't take part in this assignment). She made us translate our original text into a foreign language. Then we translated it back into English without help of the dictionary. Kathy was always pushing us into creating nonsense. Does anything exist that is truly random and without meaning? It is a very hard process. Because words can be analyzed and interpreted. She liked the writing to veer off into babble. I think she was exploring the idea of a surface translation, like with some of the French stuff she did with Laure's letters to Bataille and earlier with the Persian poems.	2004-04-20
US	19216479	R1C9VL71EI9C05	1593760108	830302329	Vanishing Point: A Novel	Books	5	9	11	N	N	A Link To The Past	David Markson is one of the most well read and literary people I know. Conrad Aiken, Malcolm Lowry, William Gaddis, and Frederick Exley were among his friends. He is the author of Wittgenstein's Mistress, which Ann Beattie has called \\"An absolute masterpiece.\\" He is also the author of Springer's Progress and Reader's Block. He has lived in Greenwich Village for almost fifty years.<br />Markson was a big reader of literary allusions and quotations. When he first read Under The Volcano, he wrote a fan letter to Malcolm Lowry. They met in Canada a while letter. Markson went on a personal crusade to draw attention to Lowry's work: \\"Which is why I wrote a master's thesis (at Columbia) on Lowry's Under The Volcano only four years after it was published, for instance, when nobody else had written anything except the original reviews, and so I had the allusions all to myself to dig out.\\"<br />Markson was also the first person to give William Gaddis' The Recognitions its high rank also. He called it the most important American novel since Moby Dick? \\"Actually it was just a throwaway passage in an old detective novel I wrote,\\" Markson confesses, \\"but there too it was only three years after Gaddis had published. I'm delighted, or even honored, when I'm still given credit for it.<br />Although he would give his right arm to have written The Recognitions, Markson is looks down at Gaddis' later work:  \\"That business of the nonstop conversation, with all the repetitions and digressions and so forth that are supposed to be precisely like real life--except that art is selectivity, damn it. I read an interview where he talked about authorial absense, but what happens instead is that what he hopes will sound natural simply sounds faked. It's a gimmick, and it ultimately makes us infinitely more conscious of the writer than we'd ever be otherwise.\\"<br />Markson has little interest in current fiction, although he occasionally reads it. His all-time list would include Moby Dick, Wuthering Heights, The Stranger, early Celine, The Sot-Weed Factor, Nightwood, The Ginger Man, early Beckett. He thought very little of Thomas Pynchon. \\"I've got an odd bias against him. I've always believed that it's a serious reader's responsibility to pick up on virtually any valid literary allusion--even though a shrewd novelist tries to bury such things too, of course, so that the context makes sense even if the resonances are missed.\\"<br />Markson did read Infinite Jest when it came out, but would make no comment. He remarked \\"Most of your enthusiasm is for the major stuff just before your own time. But deep down I know, know, that there are books out there just as good as Under The Volcano or The Recognitions--and it's my own damned loss that I've misread them.\\"g Heights, The Stranger, early Celine, The Sot-Weed Factor, Nightwood, The Ginger Man, early Beckett. He thought very little of Thomas Pynchon. \\"I've got an odd bias against him. I've always believed that it's a serious reader's responsibility to pick up on virtually any valid literary allusion--even though a shrewd novelist tries to bury such things too, of course, so that the context makes sense even if the resonances are missed.\\"<br />Markson did read Infinite Jest when it came out, but would make no comment. He remarked \\"Most of your enthusiasm is for the major stuff just before your own time. But deep down I know, know, that there are books out there just as good as Under The Volcano or The Recognitions--and it's my own damned loss that I've misread them.\\"	2004-04-20
US	19216479	R3E5SWJHAQJ1QX	039331975X	694094517	Blackden (Norton Paperback)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	There is no place like home	Duncan McLean is an important Scottish writer who lives in Orkney, in the northeast end of Scotland where most of his fiction takes place. He is known in America for his novel Bunker Man. He is also the author of an intense book of short stories, Bucket of Tongues. Irvine Welsh spoke of McLean's early work: &quot;It's very hard to think of a better short story writer in Britain today.&quot; Much of McLean's work is a perfect voice for what it's like to grow up in Scotland.<br />Even though Blackden is actually Duncan McLean's first novel, it is only now being published in America. Blackden is the story of Patrick Hunter, an 18-year-old auctioneer's apprentice, and his life over a three-day lost weekend. He rides his bicycle around the village, he meets people, loses his bicycle, and his comic and dark experiences become the bulk of the book. Blackden is a somewhat bleak, but also a tender, gentle and realistic novel. Patrick reminds me of Stephen Dedalus at the end of Portrait of an Artist fleeing from Ireland so he could become a writer, instead of becoming a drunk like his father. Patrick sees people in his village leading lives that go nowhere, and at the end he sees an image of the wall of death.<br />While Patrick Hunter may choose to leave Blackden someday, and ride away on a missing bike, Duncan McLean has definitely found his own voice as a writer. He seems fit to write and to work on a small island with waves washing over. Over the past few years he has created an impressive body of work.	2004-04-19
US	19216479	R2FFADLQNSIMAO	0802151361	71119109	Molloy	Books	5	12	16	N	N	The Promise	Molloy is a novel that influenced the writing of novels to come after it. Samuel Beckett was among many of the writers after World War II who experienced &quot;the anxiety of influence&quot; and the shadow of Modernism. It was among many novels written in the 1940's that defined a space for new literature to exist in, where it had never been quite before. Modernism on the whole was perhaps not as experimental as we would like to think, and actually most of its authors were conservatives and reactionaries. James Joyce was not though, that is why he is the most influential writer of the 20th century. Joyce's main contribution was radical literary activity, using some Modernist techniques, creating his own language, and bringing all of history and science and literature into one book.<br /><br />Samuel Beckett on the other hand was concerned with language itself, its ability to express ideas or to mirror reality, and those concerns have become our own. Molloy  is both about the writing of the novel and the search of a character, and perhaps by the end of the novel we still do not know what has happened. Beckett introduces new elements into the serious novel such as the detective story and the self-reflexive narrative. And like a mystery story, Molloy is a search for the self, for truth, for a modern idiom, but unfortunately without arriving there.<br /><br />Going back further than Joyce, to the 19th century where the bourgeois novel form was more or less firmly established by writers such as Dickens and Eliot, it would be interesting to compare that literary institution with what I will call &quot;the Post-Modern novel&quot; or Beckett's novel. In a standard 19th century novel we look for such conventions and characteristics such as plot, characterization, time, place, linear narrative, character motivation, and excellent use of the English language. If a novel does not live up to these expectations, we refer to it a bad novel or a novel which prattles. These conventions of the novel have fooled us into thinking it mirrors reality and experience. Modernism's achievement in such writers such as Joyce and Proust is to go beyond the 19th century novel and exist as a work of hyper-reality. One can use such a work as Ulysses  to be directed through the city of Dublin since it is more real than &quot;real.&quot; But one should not make the mistake of &quot;Academic criticism, . . .  (which) uses the word &quot;realism&quot; as if reality were already completely established (Robbe-Grillet 155).&quot; Experience is both fictional discourse and fact &quot;and it is never possible to decide which of the two possibilities is the right one (De Man 23).&quot;<br /><br />If Joyce is going beyond realism, Beckett goes the other way with his literature, which can be called the literature of disappointments. Rather than plot, there is storytelling without progression; instead of characterization, there is lack of character depth; there is no specific time or place, we often wonder where we are, whether months or days or hours have passed; instead of a linear narrative, or progression from birth to death, there is a narrative that goes astray, diverts, digressions, yet these are interesting detours; and instead of a strong literary language, there is the bare essentials of language, sentences out of a primer, or &quot;writing degree zero.&quot; Beckett commits these errors or disappointments for very good reasons that I would like to show here.<br /><br />Beckett's main concerns as a writer are involved with the problems of writing itself, the futility of expression, the power of language, the death of the author in terms of Foucault: these were the problems that many writers dealt with after Joyce. Alain Robbe-Grillet claims that &quot;Before the work, there is nothing: no certainty, no purpose, no message (141).&quot; This was such an attitude of a writer at the time. For Beckett, the &quot;anxiety of influence&quot; is there as well; but for Beckett he will be influenced by Joyce by an extent; he will distance himself and his work from Joyce's; he will deal with other problems. If Joyce is trying to expand the potential of language and literature, Beckett will contract, he will reduce literature down the level of language. He will grow anxious about the writer's position in the world that he will reject, a position which other writers have ignored. Beckett will ask himself &quot;why should I write?&quot; And &quot;what should I write about?&quot; And better yet &quot;how do I write?&quot; The novel Molloy  is the result of all Beckett's anxiety to write a novel. &quot;It is also a parody of the novel itself, a middle-class form. . . &quot;(Gontarski 309).  The style of it itself suggests all that. The novel is a promise of what literature could be.will be influenced by Joyce by an extent; he will distance himself and his work from Joyce's; he will deal with other problems. If Joyce is trying to expand the potential of language and literature, Beckett will contract, he will reduce literature down the level of language. He will grow anxious about the writer's position in the world that he will reject, a position which other writers have ignored. Beckett will ask himself &quot;why should I write?&quot; And &quot;what should I write about?&quot; And better yet &quot;how do I write?&quot; The novel Molloy  is the result of all Beckett's anxiety to write a novel. &quot;It is also a parody of the novel itself, a middle-class form. . . &quot;(Gontarski 309).  The style of it itself suggests all that. The novel is a promise of what literature could be.	2004-04-19
US	19216479	RLKPNXB45D9SI	0805044582	320450057	The Secondary Colors: Three Essays	Books	3	1	9	N	N	Uncle Hal	My favorite (...)is back with yet another book (I was used to his novelistic gems Three Wogs and Darconville's Cat appearing perhaps once a frugal decade), but now Alexander Theroux comes out with a book of essays two years in a row. I see that he has a predilection for new colors and using pictures of himself from thirty years ago. You may say \\"How vain!\\" But I say give the flanneur some slack. For it's possible that only myself, John Updike, Nick Baker, and maybe his brother, Paul, own the exhorbitant extent of this frilly savant's oeurve which spans maybe a few decades of sunny beach's readings. Nothing about anaesthetic Bill Clinton this time, or the fat hirsute ankles of Clinton's wife, but essays which are a celebration of colors rarely remarked upon: orange, purple, and green. I look at the first page and see something disgustingly familiar: I realize that the quote of Goethe reminds me of a writer who was as intelligent as myself. Any reader of Theroux's The Primary Colors should be comfortable with this rolodex of references to colors in the arts, literature, film, nature. I am surprised at Theroux's facility with pop music, but am dismayed at several typos and a reference to Jeff Noon's Vurt as the first cyberpunk novel. I am surprised also of the omission of Gilbert Sorrentino's The Orangery, a book of poems with the word \\"orange,\\" as well as Edward Dahlberg's obscure essay \\"The Purple Statue in Green light\\" which is an anti-technology conpendium. Theroux's achievement may hasten the approaching Armageddon.	2004-04-19
US	19216479	R187WCY3S3MJV2	1564782034	888477328	Cigarettes (American Literature (Dalkey Archive))	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Life is short	Cigarettes appears to be Harry Mathews' most conventional novel. That is only because Mathews' experimental devices and his far off, imaginary locations are not a part of this work. Surely this work is nothing like the previous work, but it is as artistic as the others. This is the literature of the salon, of Marcel Proust and, shall I dare say it, Jane Austen? And if one does not read the name on the cover, it does seem to be the work of a woman writer, say Djuna Barnes or Jane Bowles, and of course Two Serious Ladies is mentioned and read in Mathews' book. Two Serious Ladies may be used as a way into this complex, labyrinthine work.<br />Even though this novel may have some realistic qualities, (usually when we're dealing with Mathews, Realism is never a consideration, and language is of a main concern), it is a labyrinth of relationships of a group of people living in artistic New York in the 1950s and the 1960s. As opposed to Mathews' first novels, The Conversions and Tlooth where the imagination rules, the characters of Cigarettes do seem real, like a 19th century novel perhaps.<br /><br />But I am willing to say that it must be that none of these characters are based on real people as much as they have been entirely invented \\"out of the whole cloth\\" by Mathews.<br />He has said good-bye to the days of adzes, stories in the arctic, Gypsies, bi-sexual baseball players, invented languages, Adrien Le Roi, Auerbach, and literary paper chases. Now Mathews is concentrating on more conventional means of writing, more realistic. It is not at all a defeatist work. One cannot write for that audience of 500 forever.<br /><br />Each of the 14 chapters pair off two of the 13 main characters, and chapter by chapter we see the shape of relationships and the ever-changing extent of seriousness. Allen is married to Maud, and he has a relationship with Elizabeth. Priscilla, Walter Trale's lover, is Allen and Maud's daughter. Owen is blackmailing Allen for Elizabeth's portrait; he once found his daughter Phoebe, posing nude for the painter, Walter. Owen is married to Louisa, and he has another son, Lewis, who is a writer and the sado-masochistic lover of Morris. Morris is an art critic, and has a sister Irene, who is an art dealer. Irene owns a forgery of Elizabeth's portrait done by Phoebe, who also become an art dealer. The real portrait and the fake are exchanged at one moment, and only a few people are aware of this.<br />All through the novel parents misunderstand their children, and the other way around, children always misunderstand everyone, and lovers never have a clue. The novel ends with a moving meditation on death, and the fact that \\"we become the dead.\\" Definitely, the ideal reader becomes more involved with this novel than with others; the reader who is passive may have too much trouble keeping up with the different people who make up this story. Mathews here has developed a few new structural devices. There are many questions. Who is the narrator? Is there a chapter missing? Is this story based around a secret palindrome?<br /><br />This novel pretends to portray psychological depth, and tricks the reader into thinking so, but after it's all over it laughs at the possibility of depth. And the reader also laughs, or cries, for this novel suggest that personality or the other is always misunderstood. Everyone has friends or lovers that are like a puff of smoke and then gone, like a \\"cigarette.\\" This is not a conclusion to the book, but just an aspect, a nuance, the real conclusion is that relationships and fiction remain inconclusive.e once found his daughter Phoebe, posing nude for the painter, Walter. Owen is married to Louisa, and he has another son, Lewis, who is a writer and the sado-masochistic lover of Morris. Morris is an art critic, and has a sister Irene, who is an art dealer. Irene owns a forgery of Elizabeth's portrait done by Phoebe, who also become an art dealer. The real portrait and the fake are exchanged at one moment, and only a few people are aware of this. <br />All through the novel parents misunderstand their children, and the other way around, children always misunderstand everyone, and lovers never have a clue. The novel ends with a moving meditation on death, and the fact that \\"we become the dead.\\" Definitely, the ideal reader becomes more involved with this novel than with others; the reader who is passive may have too much trouble keeping up with the different people who make up this story. Mathews here has developed a few new structural devices. There are many questions. Who is the narrator? Is there a chapter missing? Is this story based around a secret palindrome?<BR> <BR>This novel pretends to portray psychological depth, and tricks the reader into thinking so, but after it's all over it laughs at the possibility of depth. And the reader also laughs, or cries, for this novel suggest that personality or the other is always misunderstood. Everyone has friends or lovers that are like a puff of smoke and then gone, like a \\"cigarette.\\" This is not a conclusion to the book, but just an aspect, a nuance, the real conclusion is that relationships and fiction remain inconclusive.	2004-04-19
US	19216479	R1JH1OG6TCZZLP	379132876X	126640667	Niki De Saint Phalle: My Art, My Dreams	Books	5	12	16	N	N	the legacy of Matisse	Niki de Saint Phalle was a French artist who was once a model, provocateur, and a scion of the feminine principle in the great Matissean way. Her first paintings were man-hating objects d'art, based, no doubt, on Sanit Phalle's rejection of patriarchy, and possibly her troubled situation surrounding her first husband, the affluent novelist Harry Mathews.<br />Saint Phalle also became known for creating paintings to be shot at with a rifle: she would place paint cans on a canvas, and she would, or maybe another artist like Rauschenberg or Tinguely would, shoot a gun at these paintings. These violent acts would be notorious, creating a drug-like sensation, which would become an asterisk in the annuals of performance art and happenings in the 1960s.<br />Saint Phalle went back to the style of her earlier art, which explored this lost world of pleasure, very much like Henri Matisse, when she created these sculptures of large, natural women, which she called \\"Nanas.\\" The largest one \\"The Hon (1965),\\" was built by a group of artists, and filled a museum in Stockholm, where spectators could enter through the body, through the vagina. I guess that you had to pay the museum staff (the pimp) for this privilege?<br />Saint Phalle then collaborated with her second husband, Jean Tinguely, on several projects in the 1970s: this is when the esthetic legacies and ramifications of the two great ones, Duchamp and Matisse, came together in their offspring, Tinguely and Saint Phalle. One can see theri work in Paris, a homage to Stranvinsky in Centre Pompidou (1982): Tinguely's hard machinery which became a parody of rationalism, and Saint Phalle's soft bodies which were discursions in Mediterranean pleasure, yet evocative of Bataille's problematic connection to the excremental world. Saint Phalle spent several years working on her Gaudi-like sculptural garden in Italy, The Taror Gardens, in Garavivvhio (Tuscany). Later in the 1980s, she resurfaced with her book about AIDS.<br />Many people now find her work dated and possibly hippy dippy. In fact she was one of the original feminist artists, with any self-consciousness or political agenda. Her work, due to its scope and relation to European history and art, has little to do with American artists of the same time, so many people have ignored it. Not many have seen it. Her collage work does have a tangential relationship to Pop Art. There is a movie about her life called \\"Who Is The Monster: You Or Me?\\" She died finally in summer 2003.ople now find her work dated and possibly hippy dippy. In fact she was one of the original feminist artists, with any self-consciousness or political agenda. Her work, due to its scope and relation to European history and art, has little to do with American artists of the same time, so many people have ignored it. Not many have seen it. Her collage work does have a tangential relationship to Pop Art. There is a movie about her life called \\"Who Is The Monster: You Or Me?\\" She died finally in summer 2003.	2004-04-19
US	19216479	R38K7P2WWWYRJR	1573660299	219992705	The Book of Lazarus	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Revolutionary Spirit	I have been reading a lot of film and music books. One book of fiction definitely stands out for me: The Book of Lazarus. This book is published by FC2: a press that has been dormant for a while, and has published little of real interest except for Grossman's first book, The Alphabet Man, and a few other books of innovative style. I am not sure innovative style means anything anymore because very few are interested. It is a good thing that FC2 has focused their energies on a book like The Book of Lazarus. Most people think that innovative writing is just sloppy and boring. I think that at the end of the day FC2 can be described as a bunch of suburban academics, who think that S/M is radical, which is not, and collect academic welfare while maintaining their outsider status. People who think that S/M is radical are deluded. Like Kathryn Harrison, these people think that self-humiliation is like a form of enlightment. I think when people don't have sex anymore, they get into S/M.<br />The Book of Lazarus is so impressed in my mind that I can recall most of it fairly easily. It made that much of an impact. It is made up of pictures, manifestos, drawings, and poems. The basic story involves a group of 1960s radicals, possibly fashioned after The Weathermen, who decide to kidnap teh daughter of a mafioso. The ransom money is to be collected by the leader, Mitchell O'Banion, and given to the Black Panthers. The deal goes bad and all the members of the group are executed by the Mafia while the daughter is also killed. O'Banion comes back with the money and saves Bobby Lazarus, a poet and idealist, who survived the execution because the plastic bag covering his head, put there to suffocate him, was punctured. This book anticipated the interested in the mafia (The Sopranos) and the use of collage in fiction (House of Leaves).<br />O'banion and Lazarus leave the country and change their identities. They go to Washington, and the poet Lazarus becomes a crossing guard and eventually involved in a child molestation case. O'Banion changes his name to Mitchell Finkelstein, and betreys his earlier political interests. He wages what becomes an ongoing battle with a Mafia family who Finkelstein had married into years before. We find out that he has a daughter living in Italy who he contacts near the end of his life. This is a great story about a group of radicals who are flawed as people. Their political idealism hardly saves them, and moeny corrupts them all. Richard Grossman has created a book which is an event, structured like a scrapbook, that emantes a new form of beauty. His characters are bad people wanting to be good, and have good in their lives, but they live in a world with salvation or transcendence. The only people who are good in this novel are those who gave their lives saving other people. Selfish motives go unrewarded. Richard Grossman is an important writer.ually involved in a child molestation case. O'Banion changes his name to Mitchell Finkelstein, and betreys his earlier political interests. He wages what becomes an ongoing battle with a Mafia family who Finkelstein had married into years before. We find out that he has a daughter living in Italy who he contacts near the end of his life. This is a great story about a group of radicals who are flawed as people. Their political idealism hardly saves them, and moeny corrupts them all. Richard Grossman has created a book which is an event, structured like a scrapbook, that emantes a new form of beauty. His characters are bad people wanting to be good, and have good in their lives, but they live in a world with salvation or transcendence. The only people who are good in this novel are those who gave their lives saving other people. Selfish motives go unrewarded. Richard Grossman is an important writer.	2004-04-19
US	19216479	R1T5HD0UINDRMT	0879512903	406602054	Our Beautiful Heroine	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Oulipo	Oulipo nevertheless begun in 1960, by the mathematician Francois Le Lionnais and novelist Raymond Queneau, as a experimental group devoted to writing that used mathematical formulas and linguistic games. This group valued the writing of some of the most eccentric, anti-mimetic, writers of the past: Laurence Sterne, Lewis Carroll, James Joyce, Ronald Firbank, Gertrude Stein, and of course Raymond Roussel. Roussel, the champion of the imagination, travelled all over the world, yet stayed locked in his room or in an ancient mobile home for fear that experience might impinge and influence his writing.<br /><br />Much more radical than their predecessors, Oulipo members would use more restricting rules to produce works. Harry Mathews suggests that this is a way of freedom of the imagination. Mathews, who detests the notion of automatic writing which he thinks is naive and impotent, once said that &quot;why not write within a system of restraint (like a sonata), that the writer chooses beforehand, rather than be a slave of a system that one is ignorant of.&quot;<br /><br />Some of the outrageous works that have appeared over the years are many, to the shock of everyone. Queneau has written One Hundred Thousand Billion Poems, a book of 10 sonnets arranged in strips so that each line of each poem can be changed and altered, living up to the title. Perec has written a book that is a palindrome, as well as a book called The Disappearance  which does not use the letter &quot;e.&quot;<br /><br />Italo Calvino has written a book which reflects on itself: If On A Winter's Night A Traveler. He also wrote Mr. Palomar, where the narrative is controlled, more descriptive or more meditative, by an elaborate numerical system based on 3.<br /><br />Lionnais has invented the n-7 algorithm where you can take any passage and replace the nouns with the seventh nouns in the dictionary that follows them. Mathews has his own algorithm where you take four words and exchange letters to make new words. Mathews has also taken familiar saying and shifted their parts: &quot;When in Rome/ Few chosen,/ Six of one/ Are another man's poison.&quot;<br /><br />Is that confusing enough? Sounds like something that will fade as fast as any other trend, but Oulipo have been around for almost thirty years. And their members: Queneau, Lionnais, Calvino, Perec, Mathews, and Jacques Roubaud are some of the writers with the strongest reputations in contemporary fiction.<br /><br />Many people would object to this type of literature, but those are people that are putting certain demands on fiction. Instead of pursuing the truth and fictional revelations, Oulipo writers wants the reader to pursue the game itself. Storytelling should be more important than what is being said. Many readers feel cheated, but they are too willing to come to the conclusion.<br /><br />Mathews, and other Oulipians, have used the devices of mystery writers to get the reader initiated in the book. Like Mathews' The Conversions  the reader feels that something mysterious is happening but he cannot put his finger on it. Mathews makes sure that the reader never will.<br /><br />Our Beautiful Heroine, by Jacques Roubaud, has more of the qualities of mystery stories but breaks with the conventions at the same time. Roubaud is quoted as saying that &quot;I wanted to write an inoffensive work.&quot; I do not know if this is possible.<br /><br />This novel has the qualities of film noir. The story relates the crimes occurring in a Parisian neighborhood which I cannot locate on a map (I must believe that this city exist only in my imagination). The characters include the unmistakable Inspector Blognard, who has infallible memory, and his assistant Arapede. The beautiful woman, or heroine, Hortense, who lives down the street where the last crime took place. She studies philosophy and goes to school. She falls in love with the Man from Bus Line T, who seems involved with the crimes, and steals her shoes.<br /><br />Hortense misses her exams with Professor Orsells, because she spends so much time with her new lover: she has no time to study. Inspector Blognard is baffled about the case. The only witness to the crime is Alexander Vladimirovich, a tomcat and voyeur, to busy with his own love affair to solve the crime.<br /><br />The narrator, Mornacier, is an aspiring crime novelist. He fights with the supposed author of the book (Roubaud?). Mornacier shuffles up the narrative and goes off the track just in spite of the author. The author apologizes, and makes his complaints to the narrator.<br /><br />Our Beautiful Heroine  does not quite end, it just gets more complicated. Inspector Blognard never solves the mystery, neither does the reader, and he arrests the wrong person. That is fine. Reading has never been a pleasure and a disappointment at the same time.xams with Professor Orsells, because she spends so much time with her new lover: she has no time to study. Inspector Blognard is baffled about the case. The only witness to the crime is Alexander Vladimirovich, a tomcat and voyeur, to busy with his own love affair to solve the crime.<BR> <BR>The narrator, Mornacier, is an aspiring crime novelist. He fights with the supposed author of the book (Roubaud?). Mornacier shuffles up the narrative and goes off the track just in spite of the author. The author apologizes, and makes his complaints to the narrator.<BR> <BR>Our Beautiful Heroine  does not quite end, it just gets more complicated. Inspector Blognard never solves the mystery, neither does the reader, and he arrests the wrong person. That is fine. Reading has never been a pleasure and a disappointment at the same time.	2004-04-19
US	19216479	R1V528WJKHCPH7	0679776249	212813623	The Size of Thoughts: Essays and Other Lumber	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Books, wood, lumber, libraries	Which brings us to the book of the month: The Size of Thoughts: Essays and Other Lumber by Nicholson Baker. With all this travel and displacement, I didn't read that much in the past month except for a few scant pages of this or that book, or leafing though New York Girls, or the Doris Kloster book, or flipping through pages of The Complete Reprint of John Willie's Bizarre. Baker's book was sort of a meditative book after enjoying the &quot;over the top&quot; quality of a Kern or a Kloster. Baker is a very intelligent man as an essayist and this sober and funny book reminds me of the thoughtfulness of his previous novels, The Mezzanine or The Fermata.<br />In fact, Nicholson Baker has been assaulted once or twice in the past by a reviewer or two for being a minor pornographer on the last two novelistic outings, and I guess that he is now asking for our forgiveness. He portrays himself here as a regular guy, with a great interest in the most minute particles. The careful essays are about simple things: changing your mind as opposed to making decisions, the size and shape of thoughts, and rarity in life and experience. Baker is also a physical guy and likes his hands on the machinery, so he devotes a word or two about typewriters, model airplanes, clipping your nails, and the movie projectionist.<br />He is a severe literary critic (refer to U and I), and Baker here elaborates his views on the literary profession which include the art of reading aloud, the history of punctuation, thoughts about Alan Hollinghurst and J. E. Lighter's The Historical Dictionary of American Slang. Things read at weddings, typos, a recipe, dewey decimal system, and books as furniture are thrown in the shuffle; glue keeps it all together. And finally a long essay about the history of lumber, where he comes out in favor of lumber, is his most strongly political. I say that I love lumber! Ever since I was hit on the head by a two by four as a child.	2004-04-19
US	19216479	R1XTWOLMN7ZB3V	0916583236	561249239	Rose Theatre	Books	5	2	3	N	N	The Second Book	This new novel is the second of a trilogy which started in 1985 when Gilbert Sorrentino published Odd Number, a novel which told of the happenings of a group of people mostly from New York, when they arrived at a party in Vermont. The characters are drawn from other previous Sorrentino novels like Mulligan Stew and Imaginative Qualities of Actual Things. This novel challenges the idea of the &quot;facts.&quot; So written in a time when writing is losing its art and resembling the newspapers. Why do so many American novelists ignore the literary past?<br /><br />The whole novel is based on a series of questions and answers, which are repeated to acquire clarity. There are three chapters. This only confuses things more. The last chapter uses maps and tries to clarify &quot;what really happened,&quot; but only contradicts those things which we were absolutely sure did happen. This is a fiction which undermines itself.<br /><br />Rose Theatre picks up where the first novel leaves off, concentrating on the female characters. The women include some writers: Annette Lorpailleur, the supposed author of &quot;La Bouche Metallique&quot;; Sheila Henry, the author of &quot;The Orange Dress&quot;; and Lorna Flambeaux, who wrote some erotic poems entitled &quot;The Sweat Of Love.&quot;<br /><br />Some portions of this book were published in some magazines earlier last year, in The Review of Contemporary Literature and Conjunctions. The second novel is much more complex than the first, exhibiting a plethora of language unlike anything in the English language. Sorrentino writes using a montage of signifiers, which shows that he has definitely said good-bye to days of James Joyce and Flann O'Brien, and suggests that he has moved into a rich space of literature that is absolutely new.<br /><br />This book is about relationships, seen from the perspective of women, if that matters; but more importantly this is a novel where language is put on stage, in the &quot;theatre&quot;, to act out its possibilities, to question itself, and to question its possibility to ever tell the truth. The language is a wild show that relates the identities of these characters.<br /><br />Gilbert Sorrentino is a writer that is so ahead of his time that we cannot ignore him for the fear that we may be left far behind, never being able to catch up with the new.s possibilities, to question itself, and to question its possibility to ever tell the truth. The language is a wild show that relates the identities of these characters.<BR>  <BR>Gilbert Sorrentino is a writer that is so ahead of his time that we cannot ignore him for the fear that we may be left far behind, never being able to catch up with the new.	2004-04-19
US	19216479	R1MSJ8MYDNBD2W	0140240853	60284325	After Yesterday's Crash: The Avant-Pop Anthology	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Crazy and wild	This is a collection of stories and fiction excerpts from that sensibility defined as &quot;Avant-Pop.&quot; I am not sure if it truly exists. It is supposed to be a mixture of high and low culture with an emphasis on pop imagery and hyper-consumption. A sort of loose category. Cyberpunk and post-moderns dominate in this collection, though Thomas Pynchon, Kathy ACker, and John Shirley are mistakeningly absent here. Yet they too are at least mentioned in the lengthy and overblown introduction by Larry McCaffery, which reads like a combination of Baudrillard leftovers and PBS post-modernism. It's a shame that the introduction is longer than some of the excerpts. Some of the stronger works here are by Rikki Ducornet, Paul Auster, William Vollmann, Lynne Tillman, Steve Erickson, Eurydice, and Bret Easton Ellis. Some of the visual artists like David Blair, Craig Baldwin, and Derek Pell are limited by the textual space; film always seems corrupted by textual translations.<br />Some pieces, like David Foster Wallace's &quot;Tri-Stan: I Sold Sissee Nar To Ecko&quot; read like total nonsense. Other writers who are a continuation of Modernism seem out of place, but Robert Coover, Ron Sukenick, and Raymond Federman do stand out mainly due to their elegant styles. It's odd that Bret Ellis' &quot;End of teh 1980s,&quot; from the novel American Psycho, strikes an important note with a human portrayal of someone trapped in the Society of The Spectacle in this context. Other stroies here seem quite comfortable in the info-babble of our overwrought times. Definitely an intense reading experience nonetheless.	2004-04-19
US	19216479	R3D9RNK52LYWOE	067941861X	177782132	The Ravenous Muse: A Table of Dark and Comic Contents, a Bacchanal of Books	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Sacramento	I was wondering about the influx of writing coming out of Sacramento, so I decided to investigate its two foremost writers. I took one glance at this new fancy book by Karen Gordon and said to myself &quot;where's the paprika,&quot; or &quot;where's Rosemary Furfaro?&quot; It turns out that this cookbook-looking event and delicacy was directed to the right person. Gordon has created Gothic language handbooks in the past (which happen to be one of my favorite periods of literature). She has also recently released the fairytale spin-off, The Red Shoes, with its intricate and infinite connections. Another book by her is to be released later this year. I say move over Vollmann, here we have a fervent producer of quantity the like style of a Japanese garden.<br />Yet The Ravenous Muse carefully explores the theme of food in the great corpus of literature. We are talking about quotations from writers that even the snobs don't know about: Andrei Bely, Elias Canetti, Ren&eacute; Char, Eduardo Galeano, Witold Gombrowicz, Jos&eacute; Lima, Flann O'Brien, Frederic Prokosch, and Raymond Queneau. Queneau may be the most important in terms of Gordon's esthetic because they share a certain intangible quality that makes their books emanate a rare original flame.	2004-04-19
US	19216479	R3I4N9YL8GO9OX	014100200X	751870359	The Royal Family: A Novel	Books	5	5	20	N	N	Queen of The Whores	I met Bill Vollmann in 1990. I had read Rainbow Stories and read a few stories of his in Conjunctions. I lived in San Francisco at the time, and except for a few people and friends, nobody knew who he was. Vollmann had lived in San Francisco off and on since 1981, but I had no idea how to contact him. I found out later that he was living in New York City at this time and was writing Fathers and Crows.<br />I asked a few papers in the Bay Area about doing an article on Vollmann. They weren't interested, because he wasn't part of the PC fads. In 1993 and 1994, I finally got to do some interviews with Vollmann and I saw him a lot during these years. Many of these magazines were apprehensive about doing anything about him, but I soon made them believers.<br />I remember one time when I met Bill in Noe Valley. We walked down to Mission Street and all the way to the 16th Street Bart Station, talking about the hotels and the people who would later show up in The Royal Family. Today you see articles in the Bay Area newspapers and magazines much as you see articles about lesser writers such as Amy Tan and Anne Lamont, who have been over-praised and had too much attention given. I mean if some lesbian built a table, as long as it worked, as was a nice looking table, I wouldn't care who built it. The Royal Family is a novel about two brothers. Henry a detective who is looking for the Queen of the Whores. John a lawyer who is thinking about the loss of his Wife, Irene.	2004-04-19
US	19216479	RXV1A9XPMJM8T	0880642521	122472371	Jew Boy: A Memoir	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Holocaust	Alan Kaufman is a writer who now lives in San Francisco. He grew up in the Bronx in the 1950's. He was involved in some important publications and was one of the people who brought Spoken Word to the public's attention. While traveling all over the world, Kaufman found time to join the Israeli Army. At the same time his writing has always been very important to his life. He was involved with many journals and was known as the editor of the Jewish theme magazine Davka.<br />He also edited most importantly The Outlaw Bible of American Poetry. This is an anthology that traces all outlaw movements in poetry from Whitman to Slam. It is one of the best-known anthologies. Even though Kaufman spent most of his time in New York City, in 1990 he came to San Francisco to join forces with the San Francisco spoken word scene that revolved around Cafe Babar. Kaufman published a book of poems American Cruiser that was one of the highlights of the new scene.<br />As media attention came unwillingly to spoken word and freedom of speech in 1993 during the San Francisco Poets strike, Kaufman was one of the people at the center of the storm. Along with Gary Glazner, Kaufman helped put San Francisco on the map in terms of poetry slams, activism, and MTV culture. As Kaufman made a place for himself in the literary world, he brought American poets on tour abroad, spreading Spoken Word to Europe and helped many new voices get heard by organizing several readings locally and nationally. Most notable of these was Wordland. At the same time he was dissatisfied. Secretly he worked for years on what would soon become a memoir. Jew Boy is a book about growing up in New York City and being the son of a Holocaust survivor. It is a brilliant book. It is a confession. It reads like a novel of growing up and learning life's lessons, through the eyes of a poet. Jew Boy is an important book for any time, and especially right now, in the world that we find ourselves in after 9-11.	2004-04-19
US	19216479	R2U0H3EZLQSV57	0684832771	994609791	Go Now	Books	1	6	21	N	N	Moonlighting?	Richard Hell (not his real name) was a Voidoid, a junkie, and an original NYC punk rocker in the early 1970s. Now he has written a novel, about--guess what?--a has-been musician who is a junkie, who lives in the Lower East Side. (Hell lives near Avenue A). The main character Billy Mud reads stuff like... Baudelaire! Wow! He has a French girlfriend who... does cocaine! Alright! But Billy is also self-effacing and is a writer on a mission. This has nothing to do with the self-reflexive metafiction of Flann O'Brien or Philippe Sollers. So much for the life of the imaginative writer. Everything now is veiled autobiography I guess.<br />Maybe the terrible people who think Marianne Faithful and Patti Smith are good writers will like this book? Is Henry Rollins reading this? This is a review of a book reviewer who is actually a novelist in disguise. Just checking if you are awake! (...) his Billy goes to California, to drive a car across the United States. This is an original road novel. Oh yeah, I forgot about Kerouac for a minute. Maybe Mr. Hell isn't familiar with William Burroughs or Bret Easton Ellis either? This book starts out as a sketch of a junkie, and then, falls off the track. I wonder how much this book was edited, because in New York publishing sometimes editors are heavy handed. I would like to see another unedited Richard Hell novel that is more ambitious, as I expect to see a rival novel by Tom Verlaine. Generally, I am sick and tired of rockers who think that they can write, let alone spell. It is almost as tiresome as actors now wanting to be in bands. There is hope for everyone.	2004-04-19
US	19216479	RU40YAZYTO3XI	0802134904	75001323	The Complete Short Prose of Samuel Beckett, 1929-1989	Books	5	38	43	N	N	Beckett: Still Relevant	The Complete Short Prose 1929-1989 is one of the great books to appear in the last ten years. I grew up reading parts in anthology and thin Grove Press editions. At last many of these sparse texts parading around as novels have come together under one cover. Stories like &quot;First Love&quot; and &quot;The End&quot; are among Beckett's strongest works, and &quot;Texts for Nothing&quot; are extremely complex and perhaps the most moving monolgues I know, for they often bring tears to my eyes. Beautiful stuff! You need some sort of literary standard other than Dave Eggers or Cormac McCarthy: I'll take Beckett any day!<br />Beckett had a big influence on European writing, but his influence is almost invisible on American letters. Sometimes you hear about writers being influenced by Kundera, Borges, or Kafka, but Beckett has eluded the art of writing here, with the exception of play writing. That's unfortunate, because his trilogy of novels and much of his short texts are some of the most intense, beautiful writing in the past half-century. Edward Dahlberg often talked about this sort of great writing: &quot;It was to take me many years to realize that one has to be very lucky to write one intelligence sentence.&quot;<br />After reading the definitive introduction by the writer S. E. Gontarski, I am convinced that Beckett is the creator of &quot;Spoken Word.&quot; Take that to the bank! In works such as &quot;Fizzles&quot; and &quot;The Lost Ones&quot; Beckett modulates a disembodied voice that is stripped away of all mimesis, yet it is the same interior voice that permeates all his fiction. Haunting, profound, chilling. I can think of no equal to Beckett's prose writing, except maybe Dahlberg himself. Only if today's hack writing was half as good as Beckett and Dahlberg....<br />People should read The Complete Short Prose and Three Novels like they read the Bible. Do it now! I know why these books are worth reading! As Dahlberg once said, &quot;What need had I of the sour pedants of humid syntax, or of courses in pedagogy, canonized illiteracy. I saw that anybody who had read twelve good books knew more than a doctor of philosophy.&quot; Nevermind these fads, these 20 under 40, and so on. Nevermind.our pedants of humid syntax, or of courses in pedagogy, canonized illiteracy. I saw that anybody who had read twelve good books knew more than a doctor of philosophy.&quot; Nevermind these fads, these 20 under 40, and so on. Nevermind.	2004-04-19
US	19216479	RNKW8YQZ98F21	0140254498	966843632	The Atlas	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Great Ideas in Books	I have heard for many long months in 1995 that \\"the book event\\" of the year was coming my way. I was sent many pretentious postcards. The real event as far as I'm concerned was by a familiar name: The Atlas by William Vollmann may have been the book those people were talking about all along. Let the idiots who never read equate length with importance, as they flounder in their non-experiential innerspace, there is not a writer out there who can write as luscious sentences as Vollmann can! This can not be denied. The Atlas, his tenth book, takes us all over the world. Vollmann concentrates this time on the form of the prose poem. And you know what? He is definitely a master of the genre. I have dipped into this book many times in my red velvet smoking jacket while drinking a bourbon.<br />These characters are so real and Vollmann's sentences vibrate with a sort of uncanny brilliance, that I am changed every time I read these lines. Some of the characters appear in previous books: Brandi the whore still lurks in the Mission, the journalist and the photographer from Butterfly Stories, while other stories take place in Canada, Sarajevo, and Burma. These stories are sad and funny, and continue to provoke and disturb. In \\"No Reason To Cry\\" Vollmann offers this jewel: \\"A case can be made that if a girl is going to get AIDS there is no reason to cry while she is getting it.\\"<br />Vollmann is a major American writer.	2004-04-19
US	19216479	R101M8M8O2YHB3	1852426047	833416987	Altered State, Updated Edition: The Story of Ecstasy Culture and Acid House (A Five Star Title)	Books	5	5	8	N	N	Sorted for E's and Wizz?	Garage, House, Acid House, Techno, Balearic, Drum &amp; Bass, Jungle, whatever you call it: this is the book about the real history. Sometime in the past fifteen or twenty years rock died finally, amd weren't you glad? I was happy but I was on E and my vote doesn't count. I was taking alot of smart drugs too and I wrote a few novels on those so-called &quot;pep pills.&quot; But I wasn't hanging out in Ibiza with Danny Rampling of Claire Manumission, or even Larry Levin at the Paradise Garage. I was still listening to Wire and Gary Numan. Like most people, at first I didn't care for most techno or house, but you know what? It's all I listen to now (I am still living in 1999). How did that happen? Before I used to listen to a lot of punk, ska and reggae, and then dropped out of the music scene for a while. I liked punk music especially since there were no rock stars, and anyone with long hair (or even looked remotely like Evan Dando) was immediately uncool and we used to beat them up. Boy, we were thugs back then, eh? But sometime in the late 1980s, someone slipped me a hit of E, and this disco record came on and it sounded like the best record I ever heard, and I was in love with everyone and I dove in the middle of the groping room. A few years later, I got serious and became the literary insider, and read Joyce, Proust, Beckett, Pynchon, Irvine Welsh, back to back, you know the story.... Well, what I'm saying is this book is a wonderful read, and adds a little narrative to the no-narrative techno policy. It also documents the most profound youth movement of the last ten or fifteen years. That's what I like about Techno: no rock stars!	2004-04-19
US	19216479	RPSHDP3Z1T50V	0374249822	428211047	Revolution of the Mind: The Life of Andre Breton	Books	3	0	11	N	N	Revisionism?	Andre Breton was actually Barnes' contemporary, a little younger, but lived an entirely different life. Born in the suburbs of Paris, his conventional family wanted him to be a doctor, but Breton was inspired by Rimbaud early on. He met a few influential figures early on, like Paul Valery and Jacques Vach&eacute;. Throwing off the restraints of Catholicism, Breton discovered Freud, Marx, and Apollonaire. Most of the Surrealists never fought in the war but were affected by it. They romanticized it. Eluard, Breton, and Soupault wanted to have the impact of Dada or Futurism. Breton early on figured that having an art Mafia was a good idea. He was the undisputed Pope who paid homage to the liberated men of all time: De Sade, Rimbaud, Lautreamont, etc. Breton figured that spiritual revolution was to include world revolution, so Breton always had a soft spot for Lenin. Surrealism would be at the service of world communism. The reds weren't interested. Breton did work at Gallimard, acted as everyone's art dealer, met Trotsky and Frida in Mexico, and had contact with many writers. Breton's liberation oddly included absolute devotion to one woman. Very Un-Sadian and very moral. Every time that someone calls for a revolution of the self or youth movement or talking about situationism they usually have a source in Surrealism. Although Surrealism got eaten up by the post-war Resistance politically engaged, Breton and company have influenced all media and fashion.	2004-04-19
US	19216479	R13D50EGQQZX2K	0316921173	669738240	Infinite Jest: A Novel	Books	4	4	8	N	N	The Dawn of The Big Load	I painfully remember those thick bodacious books of the 1970s that I labored through as if on a chain gang: those capacious fictions which were a contemporary answer to Joyce, Proust, Mann, and Musil. When these books of genius emerged, people were rightly afraid. A disturbed person could kill someone with this weapon called a thousand-plus page book : John Barth was a little before my time, but Thomas Pynchon wrote these types of books that were actually best sellers (his bloated-ness included comedy, and hip academics jumped on board), and Gilbert Sorrentino came through at decade's end with the brilliant Mulligan's Stew, a novel about a novelist writing a novel, with a play and assorted journals. Anything but a good old story. These inflated novels included everything, but the readers of the 1980s were not so friendly to these sorts of self-conscious fiction. When David Foster Wallace writes, &quot;It's funny what you don't recall&quot; in the new book, he's pulling our legs. Only if he didn't remember.<br />I am thinking now of the genre's swan song of Alexander Theroux and Joseph McElroy. Theroux's Darconville's Cat, an encyclopedic love story and study in misogyny, was a heavily promoted book, and eventually died on the bookshelves. I sense that Henry Holt's belated reissue plans have not went so well due to that reason. McElroy's Women and Men had a similar push, plenty of reviews and essays, but little sales. Readers rebelled against the genius writer. Ten years later, hardly anyone can remember who McElroy is. Even Pynchon was smart enough to produce a short novel after many years in obscurity.<br />Just think for a minute about the few novels in the past few years that have received serious literary appreciation; most of them clock in under 300 pages: Nicholson Baker, Rick Moody, Stephen Dixon, Philip Roth, Suzanna Moore, etc.  The general consensus would be that anything more is pretentious, an act of stretching what should be condensed. Even in the wake of highly technological advances, readers expectations have been damaged by impatience. Even yours truly can't sit still!<br />Which brings us to Infinite Jest. Wallace has been artistically silent for many years. So has Jay McInerny. If you don't count Wallace's half-baked tell-all about rap music, Signifying Rappers , his last book of stories, Girl With Curious Hair, was more than six years ago. So when his new book came in I was immediately concerned with the size: Could I commit two weeks of my life to such a book? Such demands are heavy duty and only the most religious could give up their lives of TV watching and Lollapalooza attending. I cracked open this massive tome, with almost 400 footnotes (some obtrusive), and the book hurt my arms and after reading a few pages, my neck began to hurt.  I remember years before, how I read the first 100 pages of Women and Men about four times before I abandoned it entirely.<br />I thought it odd that a writer like Wallace, who has relied so heavily on TV, now expects me, the reader, to sit down at a desk, and actually slow down my novel-reading habits.  As I studied Infinite Jest, a novel plotless and expansive, it turns out best read in an interior mental voice that sounds like a pedagogic and fat lecturer. Once this verbal tick is assumed it's easier to follow the over-analysed obsessed monologues, the hundred-odd characters, mostly centered around a drug rehab halfway house in Boston and a group of tennis players, one named Harold Incadenza of the Enfield Tennis Academy. The history of tennis is mixed up with drugs, chemicals, activity in Quebec, and Phoenix, Arizona.  What the book is inevitably, cannot be regurgitated, but only experienced. Eventually Wallace has written another heady book about solipsism and alienation. What a downer!  In conclusion, this is a daring book, and I don't know if it will attract any readers. Looks like there's another Titanic on the horizon! All the best of luck to you, sailor!<br />Endnotes:<br />(1)Infinite Jest is 1079 pages. Good luck!<br />(2)One wonders what was actually cut from the book, if any material?<br />(3)Rumors about the next Pynchon book is that it is short and Beckett-like.<br />(4)Several of the authors that I have interviewed: Mark Leyner, Martin Amis, Mary Gaitskill, Rikki Ducornet, Lynne Tillman, and so on.<br />(5)I couldn't imagine sitting down and reading a good old 19th century novel by Dickens or Thackerey. I have heard about people dedicated years to Proust. (Ha!)<br />(6)I guess that Wallace was too white to have known about Dolomite.<br />(7)Among book reviewers the hand signal of &quot;two inches&quot; width made with thumb and forefinger has come to signify &quot;That Wallace guy has written one thick book!&quot;<br />(8)When I finally finished W&amp;M a few years ago, I felt ripped off. The characters never meet. I think that's McElroy's achievement: To have readers invest in you and rip them off.<br />(9)Wallace is the master of the endnote. Thanks to Microsoft. I guess that they're supposed to be like TV commercials.<br />(10)In fact, this book reminds me of Vineland, by Thomas Pynchon, as it does of McElroy. Well, at least Wallace is ambitious, I'll give him that.<br />(11)Wallace always had disappointing women characters.<br />(12)I don't want to give the impression that this is an unworthy book. It is a challenging book, but as readers there are few risk takers left. Wallace is an important writer, no doubt. I just don't want him writing me any more angry letters for my opinions. So what: I find his depiction of Los Angeles to be of minor interest whereas when he writes of the Midwest, it is always intelligent and interesting./>Endnotes:<br />(1)Infinite Jest is 1079 pages. Good luck!<BR>(2)One wonders what was actually cut from the book, if any material?<BR>(3)Rumors about the next Pynchon book is that it is short and Beckett-like.<BR>(4)Several of the authors that I have interviewed: Mark Leyner, Martin Amis, Mary Gaitskill, Rikki Ducornet, Lynne Tillman, and so on.<BR>(5)I couldn't imagine sitting down and reading a good old 19th century novel by Dickens or Thackerey. I have heard about people dedicated years to Proust. (Ha!)<BR>(6)I guess that Wallace was too white to have known about Dolomite.<BR>(7)Among book reviewers the hand signal of &quot;two inches&quot; width made with thumb and forefinger has come to signify &quot;That Wallace guy has written one thick book!&quot;<BR>(8)When I finally finished W&amp;M a few years ago, I felt ripped off. The characters never meet. I think that's McElroy's achievement: To have readers invest in you and rip them off.<BR>(9)Wallace is the master of the endnote. Thanks to Microsoft. I guess that they're supposed to be like TV commercials.<BR>(10)In fact, this book reminds me of Vineland, by Thomas Pynchon, as it does of McElroy. Well, at least Wallace is ambitious, I'll give him that.<BR>(11)Wallace always had disappointing women characters.<BR>(12)I don't want to give the impression that this is an unworthy book. It is a challenging book, but as readers there are few risk takers left. Wallace is an important writer, no doubt. I just don't want him writing me any more angry letters for my opinions. So what: I find his depiction of Los Angeles to be of minor interest whereas when he writes of the Midwest, it is always intelligent and interesting.	2004-04-19
US	19216479	R3APYUW5JE5EXT	0916397378	944652946	King Of The Roadkills	Books	5	2	2	N	N	spoken word	Bucky Sinister shows us the different sides of himself and the white trash culture that produced him. He excels in all writing forms: prose poetry, short story, spoken words, and the graphic story. Many of these stories, like &quot;Gerald and Harold&quot; and &quot;Shhhlink&quot; are about attaining manhood in the cold and unfeeling world, whether it's about driving fast, drinking hard alcohol, playing basketball, getting religious, or shooting guns. Throughout this opus, the lonely characters are trying desperately to somehow connect humanly, in solitary pursuits, be they playing virtual chess, pinball, doing drugs, or killing women. Bucky Sinister has produced these writings, both inspried by real life and his imagination, in a short time. His poetry is bone-dry and intense, while his fiction about twentysomethings living in San Francisco, Los Angeles, and Arkansas, is equally goofy, humorous, and unsentimental. Some may be turned off to the necrophilia in one story. Friendship is held in higher esteem than love here. That's fine. King of the Roadkills is ultimately an unapologetic kick to the head, entertaining and meaningful, displaying Mr. Sinister's true thoughts and feelings. Chuck Sperry's artwork is an added bonus. This is a must-see and a must-read!	2004-04-19
