US	20239306	R1ZNE94QHL03AG	0385509480	906666482	Haunted : A Novel of Stories	Books	5	21	25	N	N	Man, this book is great	When Haunted first came out, all the negative reviews on this site scared me away from actually buying it. What they said seemed plausible - I'm not a diehard Palahniuk fan, and I had no trouble believing the suggested flaws: didacticism, poor character development, over-the-top gore.  <br /> <br />Still, I had sometimes liked Chuck's work in the past, and the premise sounded too intriguing to be total waste of paper. So I engaged in that time-honored practice that seems like something a Chuck Palahniuk character might do: I read the book in the bookstores, with the air conditioning, on the comfy chairs they provided - three chapters in one Barnes & Noble, then, when the security guard started to give me a funny look, on to the Borders down the street. I read about half of it in one day this way. <br /> <br />There is a point to this story. <br /> <br />By the end of that day, I was thinking - \\"Hey, this book is actually pretty good so far. All the better I didn't have to pay for it.\\" <br /> <br />The next day, I started on the second half. I sat in the bookstore for four hours, hunched over, dead to the world, until it was eight forty-five and a clerk came by to tell me the store was closing. I was a few chapters shy of the end. I could have come back the next day and finished it off in fifteen minutes - but instead I bought it, the whole twenty-five dollar hardcover, cutting a huge hole in my sorely-needed monthly budget, and finished it on the subway home. <br /> <br />The point of the story, don't make the same mistake. Save yourself the trouble and buy it now. <br /> <br />As for the book itself, what to say...I don't exactly refute those complaints leveled against it; I can't argue that it _isn't_ very bloody or that is has _great_ character development. But that's not really the point. The best argument against the argument against Haunted is the book itself, but I do have a few thoughts on the subject. <br /> <br />1) Palahniuk's prose is marked by phrases,usually overgeneralized statements about human nature, that seem like trite condensations of his message: greeting-card diatribes, if you will. But I don't think any of these little aphorisms are _really_ Palahniuk's message. What I think he's done is found a way to work with 'message' the way authors have been working with theme and tone for decades. \\"Show instead of tell\\" is the cardinal rule of writing, but by carefully manipulating what he tells us, Palahniuk is often remarkably subtle. The trick is to look beyond at the aphorisms - at the narrative itself. <br /> <br />2) A lot of people have said that the stories are better than the overarching narrative. That may be true, but I don't think the stories could stand independantly of the narrative. If the stories were just packaged together, they wouldn't have anywhere near the impact - they reader wouldn't see how they were connected, and the violence and grotesquery might seem even more pointless. <br /> <br />All I can say is that I think the book _does_ have a point, and that there's nothing either simple, cynical, preachy or simple-minded about it. Haunted may be my favorite Palahniuk book so far. <br /> <br />	2005-06-15
US	20239306	R3BES2E52O5NGD	0143039075	599144703	In the Shadow of Young Girls in Flower: In Search of Lost Time, Vol. 2 (Penguin Classics Deluxe Edition)	Books	5	64	71	N	N	In the Shadow of Young Girls in Flower	A book of this stature hardly needs another review explaining how great it is, and, not being all that cultured, I can't provide a lot of literary context or comparisons with past translations. I can offer a recommendation, though, as a young modern lay reader who suffers the usual hesitations about approaching classic texts. <br /> <br />With regard to previous translations, all I know is that this volume apparently used to be called In a Budding Grove - which may be the worst literary title ever - and is now called In the Shadow of Young Girls in Flower, which may be the best literary title ever. As far as I can tell the translation flows very smoothly, too, and even though Proust's style, as most people probably know, features sentences which go on for a very long time and have complex constructions buried in them (sort of like this one), I thought it was more readable than the likes of Joyce and Pynchon, because the power of the first-person voice often makes the meaning clear. There were a couple of points where I thought the translator used a word that seemed too modern and idiomatic - 'hubby' was one - but it's not that much of a distraction. <br /> <br />Proust's habit is to spend a lot of time discussing small, specific things, but that isn't to say he describes every single event of his childhood in excruciating detail - he often skips over major events, or describes something's prelude in more detail than the event itself, summarizing the things which had the deepest emotional impact on him at the time. The result is a narrative which is very engaging because all of the details in it, however small they might be, shed light on something deeper. <br /> <br />With this specific volume (about the experience of youth), speaking as someone whose own adolesence isn't far behind him, I found it eerily insightful. Reading about people from a different century, I would suddenly come on an insight which might have been a direct comment on me or someone I knew, andwhat I think really makes Proust one-of-a-kind is that he never stoops to satire, charicature or didactics; it's just straight observation. The people he describes might be the comic relief or even buffoonish villains in the works of a lesser author, but something about the way he describes them so exactly produces sympathy, as if the reader were allied as much with them as with the narrator. <br /> <br />Of all the 'classic' books I've read, ISYGIF is one of my favorites, and I recommend it to anyone able to read it. Like I said, I don't think Proust's style is as hard to grasp as certain other modern authors; but if it does seem difficult, then it's certainly worth the effort of becoming accustomed to it, for the beauty which emerges from it and the uncanny human analysis. <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-02-28
US	20239306	R3QQ43E47ZNJMZ	0345371135	234936263	The Quincunx	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Anything but escapism	A combination of deft characterization and an extremely clever maze of a plot make The Quincunx difficult to put down, but after eight hundred pages, when the mystery is finally (or nearly) revealed, it might occur to the reader to wonder why it was neccesary to lead them over so many hurdles just to arrive at a resolution. Often, clever mysteries have a dissapointing aftertaste; but in the case of The Quincunx, there is another layer which not only redeems but makes neccesary the complexities of the narrative. <br /> <br />Dickens has been cited again and again as an influence, and what it reminds me most of, in the end, is Great Expectations, in that it's the story of a gradual and rigorous moral education. In order to appreciate the value of money, the protagonist must first suffer every indignity of povery - so that, when his sweetheart later suggests that they elope and disregard his promised fortune, asking romantically \\"Is poverty really so terrible?\\" - he answers bluntly: \\"Yes.\\" He also comes to realize the motives of his enemies, and that his own might not be as far removed from them as he would like. The story is complicated because reality, both in the book and in the world, is complicated. That the novel's hundreds of characters are all interconnected smacks less of coincidence than the natural interdependance of real people.	2005-02-27
US	20239306	R2GNC7KLWYF8MB	0374505241	113731400	The Violent Bear It Away: A Novel	Books	4	113	122	N	N	Wa-a-ait a second...	I think it's important to correct a common misperception that's been cropping up in the reviews here. I can understand how someone might come to the conclusion that The Violent Bear it Away is an exposure of, or an attack on, religious fanaticism, but I can say with almost absolute certainty that this was not the author's intention. Flannery O'Connor was a devout Roman Catholic, and nearly all of her stories (check out especially A Good Man is Hard to Find) carry a very extreme and uncompromising religious message. Everything connected with her - the other stories, her personal correspondence, and the text of Violent itself - suggest that it was meant as, crudely stated, an endorsement of fanaticism; or more accurately, a spiritual call to arms, and an attack of meek secularism. This doesn't mean that the book is only for religious people. Someone reading it from an antifanatic standpoint might well benefit, if only by discovering in the person of the author herself an example of the fanaticism they find so distasteful. A religious reader, though, should not be frightened away by all these reviews suggesting that The Violent is a plea for religious moderation. O'Connor's vision, above all, was radical and unconventional, and for either a religious, an agnostic or an antireligious reader, it presents something to think about.  <br /> <br />As for the book itself, I only give it four stars because I think O'Connor's short stories are a better exploration of her themes. In the long form, instead of presenting a more nuanced view of the world, there is only room for more brutality and meanness; which isn't neccesarily a bad thing, but which isn't a good thing either. I would reccommend either of O'Connor's short story collections before The Violent, but for a fan of her work, The Violent is indispensable.	2004-12-28
US	20239306	R1O0Q0WLO3Q12Y	0451184963	179012025	Insomnia	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A wonderful book	Insomnia is the definition of a good read, the literary equivalent of comfort food. It has everything you'd expect from Stephen King - grotesque monsters, a dramatic conception of good and evil, and a convincing sense of peril. It also has plenty of thigns you might or might not readily expect from King - a complete and authentic vision of an entire community, a compelling, human protagonist, pacing, and a brilliant sense of humor. It's sort of like Russo's Empire Falls with a couple of supernatural doctors thrown in. And at seven hundred pages, King doesn't bring you up short; he carries the story all the way through to its final conclusion, guiding it with the hand of an experienced, as well as talented, author. If you've liked anything else King has done, this book is certainly one of his best, if not _the_ best. And if you're ever looking for a book to read on the plane, be ye ne'er so well-read and cultured, I advise you to give Insomnia a try.	2004-11-12
US	20239306	R1EP2UH5UF5R19	4770029578	404407409	In the Miso Soup	Books	5	17	18	N	N	Anxiety	Ryu Murakami has never written about violence, but about the causes of violence - and not direct, ordinary causes, but the underlying psychological tensions in human beings which lead to violence. The psycopath in the novel, Frank, describes violent tendencies in children as the product of anxiety, an attempt to prove that the world will not collapse when some horrible act is perpetrated. 'Anxiety' is certainly a good term to describe the book, or any of Murakami's - every scene vibrates with an eerie strangeness, and human relations take unexpected turns. In the end, the product is somewhat mystifying, but provides a good read and ample food for thought. What it does best is pair images of extreme innocence and extreme violence, produce alternate reactions of sympathy and disgust, and force a reader to suspend all kinds of belief and judgement until the page-turner narrative is over. Still, what it isn't is a thriller, a character study, or a book with any clear message. The character of Frank could be taken to represent many things - the destructive effect of confused intentions on an insular culture, or a human loneliness common to both this American and the Japanese protagonist, or any misfit lashing out against a restrictive society. In any case, it's one of the most fascinating contemporary novels I've discovered. <br />	2004-10-28
US	20239306	R2V3CB0U6MM2DD	0140250948	236604486	In the Lake of the Woods	Books	3	9	12	N	N	'Hey, Sorceror, how's tricks?'	At first I was ready to condemn this book because it hinges on a psychological mechanism which is too readily apparent. Instead of being a gradual unveiling of a man's psyche, most of his problems are obvious from the beginning. He practied magic as a boy, and in Vietnam was awarded the nickname 'Sorceror' - and through the whole book you get phrases like 'the trick was to forget' and 'the trick was to make her love him and never stop,' and past a certain point you want to scream that you _get it already_. You get why he behaved the way he did, and what problems it caused. There is no real suspense; and, in the end, his character is not really all that complex. O'Brien also has the annoying habit here of liberally using quotes from other documents to demonstrate things which he could have shown in the lives of his characters - sometimes, the quotes work well, but sometimes they don't. It's difficult to believe he could have gotten through even one writer's workshop without someone telling him: \\"Show, don't tell,\\" and using quotes from pyschology textbooks and magician's manuals is as rankly telling as any narrative device. <br /> <br />Still, I have to conceed that O'Brien is an amazing writer. He has values, a sense of the real world, and a way of insistently asking important questions which give him a powerful style. In the Lake of the Woods may have been flawed in conception - may not have been as good as a book with its premise could have been - but it's still, in the end, an enjoyable read. After reading The Things They Carried - which is just on a whole other level from this book - I wondered if O'Brien could write a good narrative which wasn't firmly based on his own past, and I think he certainly can, but that it will take some more work.	2004-10-08
US	20239306	R1FZYHPW2GKS62	1880418622	871670140	The Dark Tower (The Dark Tower, Book 7)	Books	4	1	5	N	N	'Here comes the Deus Ex Machina!'	Yes, those words actually appear in this book. <br /> <br />I do believe that the Dark Tower is a huge literary achievement. Parts of it might be vulnerable to criticism, but on the whole, it represents a work of imagination unequaled by any other living writer, and by most dead ones. The Dark Tower is a kind of superstory; bigger, bolder and more inventive than any of the usual fare. <br /> <br />That said, I think that while in many ways he rallies for the last book, Volume VII has a few distinct, major flaws. <br /> <br />I'm not going to take issue with the ending, whether it's happy enough or not. I think King played that about right. What bothers me is what should come right before the ending; the climax. I think it's been a problem from the beginning of the series that as soon as the gunslingers come face-to-face with their enemies, they kill seemingly without much effort. There's a suprising lack of _combat_. Hopefully without giving anything away, the climax of The Dark Tower - both of them, the two conflicts with important villains - don't seem nearly dramatic enough, and the fate of another major evildoer, earlier in the narrative, also seems anticlimactic. For an epic story, this is a major weakness. I also think there are a few loose ends not tied up, and a lot of the narrative which, in retrospect, seems quite unnecesary, given what ends up happening. The seven books of the series set you up for a climax of unprecedented proportions, and maybe it would have been hard to resolve. Still, I can't help but suspect that King might have come up with a more stylish conclusion if he had given himself more time, and that he may have rushed the book to its conclusion, afraid that he might not survive to finish it (his relief that he did complete it is fairly evident even in the book itself). <br /> <br />What I do like is King's involvement in the story. It's a tribute to the skill of a writer, I think, when it doesn't seem at all awkward when the writer himselfdelivers a message to his characters, to which they respond. As King says in his afterwords, this isn't intended to be a clever little bit of 'metafiction;' he's simply a character in the book, and far from the noblest or most important. <br />	2004-10-03
US	20239306	R2N1PD6I5KOE52	0156439611	466126836	If on a Winter's Night a Traveler	Books	5	3	3	N	N	What's not to like?	It's hard for me to imagine how anyone could fail to enjoy this book. In the hands of a lesser author, such an experimental project might have failed disastrously, but Calvino is never smug and never obtuse. In his speculations about readers and the nature of reading, the long experience of an accomplished author is evident. <br /> <br />Winter's Night is the story of a book that never ends, becoming a new story every time it seems to reach its climax, and of the two readers who try to pursue it. The snippets of fiction which make up the book-within-the-book are hugely entertaining - in the first, a member of some covert organization must flee when his cover is blown; in another, a billionaire avoids kidnapping through a series of complex false lives, only to become a victim of his own duplicity; in another, a man returns to the village of his birth to do battle with the ghost of a man his father killed. They are all completley self-contained, and after some time the reader stops being dissapointed that each one is cut off prematurely. We realize that it's the style that matters, and not the nature of the shadowy conspiracy which the protagnoist finds himself caught up in over and over. Eventually, the quest of the readers to find the complete book takes on the tone of an adventure story itself, involving actual conspiracies in foreign lands, disguises, duplicitous translators, and the very nature of truth in narrative. <br /> <br />What most descriptions of Winter's Night seem to miss is its charm. In his style, Calvino is often speaking directly to the reader, and the book conveys that sense of personal interest on the part of the author; it's a book in which you can make yourself at home. At the same time, it is penetrating in its analysis of the author-reader relationship. <br /> <br />To paraphrase Robin Wood on a different subject: If you do not like If on a Winter's Night a Traveler, you do not like to read.	2004-09-18
US	20239306	ROTKLOT6V5O5	1591823145	948446898	Battle Royale, Book 1	Books	2	6	14	N	N	Disgusting	It's hard to say what makes the novel Battle Royale an engaging and thought-provoking narrative, while this manga is exactly what critics of the book might accuse it of being: repulsive, non-stop violence with no redemptive value at all. I think a manga was a good chance to improve on the novel by giving visual dimensions to some of its more striking setpieces, but this version is no good. I think that the maker of the manga was honestly trying to follow the spirit of the book, and that it's his failure to understand basic narrative technique that makes it unreadable. The manga is so long because it spends a great deal of time focusing on each character - good, you'd think, but spending half of a volume telling the life story of a character who will presently die in a minor incident actually harms the story. The book, where a lot of the deaths are treated more tersely, actually generates a greater sense of sympathy. This writer doesn't know to focus on what's important - the story could have been told much better in half as much space. Then there's the art. The characters, all of them supposedly average junior high students, either look like gorgeous caucasian twentysomething models or like repulsive gnomes. Some characters (Yutaka especially) are just so ugly you can't bear to look at them; and not ugly in a realistic way, but superdeformed. The artist's command of nature, explosions etc. is a little better, but it seems like almost anyone else could have done a better job.  <br /> <br />That said, it deserves at least two stars for telling the Battle Royale story, but the book is superior in every way.	2004-09-17
US	20239306	R3TZSYEXDFJA0	0802140122	65240666	Twelve	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Of definite interest and promise	Twelve is best not taken too seriously. I don't think McDonell intended to write a definitive and revelatory statement on his entire generation; after all, he's only seventeen, and presumably knows it. In an interview, he admitted that he wasn't 'mature enough to draw a character study.' That may be true, as Twelve has little character and less plot, but its mood and pacing and overall style are very impressive. It's more like a poem, in a way, than a novel. I've always felt that literary talent is a 'have it or not' deal, and McDonell clearly has it.	2004-09-04
US	20239306	R1XZJC5TISZMCR	1932234063	580737068	Spiral  ('Ring' series, Book 2)	Books	4	10	12	N	N	Even less horrific and more cerebral	Spiral very cleverly takes the plot of Ringu and runs with it, involving alphanumeric codes and the mechanisms of cellular biology. Suzuki's style seems to have improved some, too, since Ringu, and is just as briskly readable, and a little more concrete in its descriptions. As in Ringu, theory eventually displaces horror as the core of the story, and probably to an even greater extent, but there are still some moments of genuine horror. There's also more of Ryuji Takayama, even though he's, um, dead. In other words, everything you loved in Ringu is back in force. <br /> <br />The only thing which harms Spiral, I think, is the contrast between its horrific and scientific elements. That there is some kind of tentative quasi-scientific explanation for the events makes them seem less frightening, and at the same time, the neccesary implausibility of the scientific explanations makes them seem unnecesary. <br /> <br />In any case, Spiral sets the stage nicely for the final volume in the series, Loop, which is hopefully soon forthcoming.	2004-08-30
US	20239306	R23EJL5SAHN9SH	156931778X	419611869	Battle Royale	Books	4	0	2	N	N	Powerful morally and psychologicaly, but naive in ways	Battle Royale does two things, in concert, very well; it builds an incredible degree of suspense and empathy with the characters, while providing a psychological model of really stunning clarity. It shows the wide array of behaviors caused by its premise, all entirely believable, all working together to provide a concinving portrait of the essentials of human nature under pressure, and at the same time there are moments which have this cinematic coolness (a character called Kazuo Kiriyama steals every scene he's in). <br /> <br />I felt, though, like the political dimension of the novel was irrelevant. The Battle Royale is being used as an instrument of political terror by a fascist government - but human interactions which are vibrantly realistic in the insular world of the game become sketchy and unconvincing as that world expands, and it becomes clear, too, that the author's political views are pretty naive and generic. A vaguer, more Sherley Jackson-esque approach - 'There have always been Battle Royales' - I feel would have worked better. <br /> <br />Also I take major issue with who lives and dies, but that just shows, I guess, how completley involving the story is.	2004-07-31
US	20239306	R3LAFKJFQDI122	1413900003	339518280	Azumanga Daioh Volume 1 (Azumanga Daioh (ADV Manga))	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Like a drug	I picked up the first volume out of curiosity, because I'd heard about it somewhere. I thought I might read it when I went away to Baltimore for a couple of weeks. Of course, walking out of the store, I started reading the first few pages...By the end of the week, I had bought and read _all four volumes_, and then went through a period of severe withdrawal.<br />Azumanga is almost supernaturally cute, funny and human; the characters are sharply drawn but avoid obvious stereotypes; the art is crisp and perfectly evocative. Surely Osaka is among the finest characters ever inked or written.<br />The one things which seems strange, though, and sort of funny, is the suspicious lack of any romantic involvement on the part of any character through four years of high school.	2004-07-16
US	20239306	R79YGS074JFJG	0140275363	488928067	The Iliad	Books	5	7	7	N	N	It's just incredible	Some things just never go out of style. It can be said of some old works that they're 'as relevant today' as they were when they were written, but even the aesthetic of the Illiad seems modern, relatable, just flat-out entertaining at times. Fagles' very direct translation still keeps the appeal of the original archaic phrasing, and only rarely does it sound _too_ modern of idiomatic (Ajax and Hector are going to 'fight it out' with spears?).<br />Some of the things which seem most important to note:<br />1) The Illiad is incredibly violent. Descriptions of spears going through warriors' heads, eyes and teeth falling out, tongues being split in half...the phrase 'and his brains splattered the inside of his casque' crops up a lot.<br />2) The relations between the characters can be surprising. Every time Hector runs into his brother Paris, he 'rakes him with insults;' Helen is deeply penitent and refers to herself as a 'whore' and a 'slut;' Diomedes, a character most modern interpretations forget, actually attacks the goddess Aphordite and makes her _bleed_. It isn't the case with the Illiad that everybody knows the story already; there's a lot here beyond most people's understanding of the myth.<br />3) The characters aren't all identical stoic, courageous heroes (though the Greeks do tend to be a bit interchangeable). Ajax taunts Paris: \\"Glittering lovelocks, roving eyes for girls...\\" and after Idomoneus kills Othryoneus, Cassandra's fiance, he brutally mocks the guy's corpse.<br />4) The behavior of the gods is hysterical. They bicker like children, and thousands of soldiers die because of it...and Zeus says to Hera something along the lines of: 'Relent, before I choke you with my irresistable hands!' It's worth reading just for that.<br />This is a undeniable classic, and ultimately just as accessable as Petersen's 'Troy.'	2004-06-04
US	20239306	R2PZ2HVR95NZT2	0679767789	556287238	Lost In Place: Growing Up Absurd in Suburbia	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Boy, can I relate	In addition to a memoir, this book is an effective mediation on what it really means to master something. We see Salzman try to become a martial artist, and, later, a cello soloist, the first with considerable dedication, the latter with a certain amount of natural ability; in both cases, though, he eventually realizes that he just doesn't have what it takes to really master the discipline. In the case of Kung Fu, after three years of study, he encounters a drugged-out man who threatens him with a lead pipe. In spite of the fact that he could probably easily disarm him, Salzman's nerve fails him and he hands over his wallet. Later, with the cello, he gives up after seeing one performance by legendary cellist Yo Yo Ma. He ends up finding his greatest success as a mailboy for an attorney. <br />One thing that struck me as interesting is that (I read somewhere) 'Kung Fu' refers to any human skill in Chinese (making a 'Kung Fu skills' redundant, like ATM machine); it's sort of a metaphor, then, for everything Salzman pursues.<br />Another thing to note is that in spite of the subtitle 'growing up absurd in suburbia,' Salzman's martial arts training is astonishingly difficult. His teacher is a borderline psychopath who curses and hits his students (at one point he throws Mark against a trophy display case), and the school regularly practices full-range sparring with no protective equipment except for a cup, which is about as hardcore, comparatively, as playing the cello with the skin stripped off your fingers.	2004-05-13
US	20239306	RBD1NZBIOT9DK	0385480016	980380074	Bird by Bird: Some Instructions on Writing and Life	Books	3	7	12	N	N	Not exactly universal	I recognize that Lamott, unlike me, is a published author, so I hardly have the right to critique her methods. As an aspiring author, though (presumably the target market for this book), I think the fact that I found it irritating and unhelpful does have some significance for other perspective buyers.<br />Someone once said that an author is someone for whom 'writing is more difficult than it is for other people.' I don't neccesarily agree with that, but Lamott obviously does. About half of the time, when she talks about writer's block or issues related to writer's block (how to start yourself on the path to a succesful work of fiction), she makes it sound like writing a decent paragraph on the first try is something that happens about as often as God cures you of blindness. She has all kinds of suggestions for how to essentially trick yourself into writing. I always assumed that being good at something meant that you could actually do it...again, I realize how singularly this is my opinion, but if writing fiction is that hard, maybe your talent is for something else.<br />The other approximate half of the book consists of more practical advice about style, plot and character, a lot of which is practical, some of which tends toward the obvious. Its best feature is Lamott's comic style, which is really ingenious at times, but I would still say that this book is probably of more of interest to casual literature students than to people seriously considering a career as a novelist.	2004-05-07
US	20239306	R1H4C2HNPQR7MB	0671880187	536943079	Kitchen	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Beautiful	This is one book that does live up to its reputation, that became a pop-culture phenomenon because of the its quality, and not because it was bland and inoffensive. It may be short and simply written, but it deals with important themes in a major way. You get that sense of restrained power - like with Hemingway - that what's said is only the tip of the iceberg, and that the author's imagination could fill out a volume many times as long. It isn't sentimental or 'cute,' either. It's very different to explain why it works, and the only real answer is the incredible talent of the author.	2004-05-05
US	20239306	R2HQWQ9KG92JD	0451191145	604964480	Atlas Shrugged	Books	2	41	54	N	N	Gives a whole new meaning to the term 'heavy-handed'	I have nothing to say for or against Rand's philosophy, but I have a lot to say against this book. There's unsubtle, there's undisguised propaganda, and then there's Atlas Shrugged.<br />I didn't think this before I picked up the book. Yes, from the beginning, the worldview is completley one-dimensional and Rand admits no possibilty of any other ideas having merit, but I had expected that from having reading The Fountainhead. There came a passage in the middle of the book, though, which just made me _stop_ and reread it a couple times. It describes a train wreck, caused, of course, by shoddy workmanship and laziness, in which all of the passengers on the train are killed. Rand as narrator says something like: &quot;You may believe that victims of accidents have no responsibilty for their deaths. However, the passengers on this train...&quot; and she goes on the list why some of the passengers on that train _deserved to die_, namely because they weren't proper objectivists.<br />Am I the only one who thinks that's just slightly objectionable?<br />I almost never get offended, and I'm not one to snap at authors for being insensitive or un-p.c. <br />But _holding accident victims responsible for their own deaths because of philosophical shortcomings_ seems to cross a line.<br />I found The Fountainhead readable (and I'm giving this book two stars instead of one) because of the sheer energy and conviction which Rand communicates through her work. It's obvious that she cares very deeply about her mission. It's difficult for the reader to work up the same enthusiasm, though.	2004-05-05
US	20239306	R25ZY2SERKRWO6	0871136791	11590154	Cold Mountain	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Immense	The contents of this novel are well represented by that huge, misty landscape on the cover. Cold Mountain seems to come from another era, one where authors weren't forced into the straightjacket of pithy sentences and cheap wit; it's reminiscent of Twain or Robert Penn Warren, huge, sprawling and thoughtful; there's something almost miraculous about it.<br />Some people may have been dissapointed with the novel because it isn't really about two of the things that it was reported to be about. It isn't pedantic historic fiction, a la 'The Killer Angels,' and not meant to shed light on the Civil War as a histroical phenomenon. It also isn't much as a retelling of the Odyssey. The underlying theme - looking for home and encountering obstacles - is the same, and there may be some resemblances between the obstacles that Ulysses and Inman face, but the heritage isn't noteworthy in any way.<br />What Cold Mountain does have is an endless depth of innovation in theme and style and character. It manages somehow to shift from a rousing adventure story to a contented and charming chronicle of farm life, to an eerie, sort of Sartrean mediation on life and morality, to an exploration of Southern folklore and small personal history. You can feel the author's talent stretching the bounds of the subject matter sometimes. He wants and has the ability to write about everything, from the greatest person to the smallest, from a gruesome battle to dinner in an inn. It's so eclectic, even, that it begins to approach a fault, but Frazier ties things together nicely using the theme of the war. Early on, Robert E. Lee is criticized for his smug 'It's a good thing war is so terrible; otherwise we might grow to like it.' Inman reflects that for a man like Lee, noble and dramatic, war is really not terrible, and that he has no compunction about sending 'lesser' men to die. Later on, this malcious spirit of greatness takes form as General Teague, captain of the southern home defense force, a real Bond villian of a character. The first couple of times he appears, complete with sidekicks, hammy dialogue and gut-splattering violence, are so brilliantly calculated; later, when he tracks down and confronts Inman, it plays out in such an intriguingly symbolic way, bringing the novel to a satisfactory close. There's a point where, reflecting on the death of a scoundrel, Inman thinks something like: 'There was no sense of redemption or nobility about it...neither did it seem like a deserved or justified end. It had simply happened,' and that seems to be the theme. Cold Mountain tries to encompass almost everything in life, and succeeds more than you would think possible.	2004-05-03
US	20239306	R351POW8BN11DD	4770028962	326209559	Coin Locker Babies	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Ultimately uplifting	I put off reading this book for a long time because I thought, from reading the cover, that I knew exactly what it was going to be like; snide, hip and cynical, and hopelessly depressing. It is all of those things to a degree, but it's amazing in that despite its relentless depiction of casual violence, squalor and destruction, Coin Locker Babies still manages to be deeply human at every turn.<br />Sympathy is developed first of all for the main characters, who seem completley justified in their bitterness and eccentricty; the book first follows their twisted yet idyllic childhood with their foster parents on an island. The foster parents, painfully ordinary people, are treated with much more tact than I expected. At different points, the mother and the father each express regret that they failed to be better parents; the moments are touching and redeeming.<br />The psychology in this book, though spotty at times (because some of the characters are just so bizzare), is accurate in that the signficance of it is considered. While Kiku and Hashi might be dramatic and larger-than-life, their dependance on each other and on their foster parents, and their complicated attitudes towards the mothers who left them to die, keep showing through. The relationship between the bisexual Hashi and his wife is also very convincing; that between Kiku and his girlfriend less so, though.<br />The author also doesn't neglect scenery, or the small, basically irrelevant details which add charm to a narrative. There's a host of loveable minor characters, the best of them convicted murderers, who become in time as sympathetic as Hashi and Kiku. In the end, also, the message is tentatively optomistic, holding up the decree YOU MUST LIVE in the face of disaster. This is one of the most complex, engaging and endearing contemporary novels I've come across, and shows that there may be hope even for this frenetic, disillusioned generation.	2004-04-30
US	20239306	R375IEFZSLO2G9	0679724656	862001785	Beyond Good & Evil: Prelude to a Philosophy of the Future	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Autobiography of a mind	Forget Nietzsche the philosopher. As he himself said, 'Before you ask what a philosopher thinks, find out what he wants' (or something to that effect), and, as Freud said, &quot;He had a sharper understanding of himself than any man in recent history.&quot; You could blow holes in the logical validity of his arguments, but he has never been about logic; all of his texts are deeply personal, and show an outstandingly intelligent and sensitive man grappling with the same issues that plague most people. Although he often has a reputation as arrogant and self-centered, he was often more tenuous about his ideas than other philosophers, advancing an idea by a series of partly related statements, sometime changing his mind or pausing to restate his position in different terms. You can see his ideas evolving over the course of this book alone. There are also some solid and entertaining insights here, and the aphorisms are highly quotable, but I think its greatest value is as a glimpse into a human soul.	2004-04-28
US	20239306	R1SX48KU8L0XFI	0679748261	74645873	Goodbye, Columbus : And Five Short Stories (Vintage International)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	&quot;I'm dark&quot;	I'm not a huge fan of Roth at all, and when discussing him, I always seem to forget that he wrote these stories. It really does seem like the work of a different author; a brighter, more clever and inventive one; namely, younger. Maybe the mold of cynicism just set around him at a certain point as he aged, in which case Goodbye, Colombus stands as his first and last good work.<br />First of all, the writing is first-rate modern American, a light but not overly breezy style, something like Bellow. Especially in the title story, the subtle humor is very effective, and he has a Salingerian gift for making the last sentence of a paragraph resonate. The themes, also, that continue throughout the stories are well-developed and intriguing; in 'Defender of the Faith,' he shows how a very convincing sociopath takes advantage of his Jewish identity and uses it as a weapon; in a story the title of which I can't remember, a young boy rebels against the oppressive Jewish instruction of his elders; then, later, in 'Eli the Fanatic,' Roth shows a man discovering solace in the stark rituals of traditional Judaism. The issue is examined from many angles. 'Epstein' is more suggestive of his later work and somehwat distasteful, very bleak, but a convincing portrait of an aging and frustrated Jewish man. 'You can't tell a man by the song he sings' is lighter and has little relation to the theme of Judaism, in case you were beginning to think Roth couldn't write about anything else.<br />The title story is easily the best; the rest are just accesories. While the romance which it depicts never really seems justified (what does she see in him to begin with?), the writing is superlative and the characters interesting, and the semitragic conclusion more moving than it really should be. In this story, Roth displays a delicacy which is foremost among the things he inexplicably loses later on; he seems to like these characters, even the spoiled and decadent family, and stops to linger on minordetails with a real zest for description. <br />Reading these stories made me think I had judged Roth too quickly after reading only two of his books; I read another, and was disappointed again. Stick to this one.	2004-04-25
US	20239306	R1BFO70CJ9OC9	0767902890	852411699	The Things They Carried	Books	5	3	5	N	N	&quot;Lemon tree, so pret-ty...&quot;	When my teacher assigned this book in high school, I looked at the cover and the back, and an image formed in my mind of a bearded man with an acoustic guitar strumming on it and signing: '-down by the riverside, aint gonna study war no more.' I'm suspicious of any fiction which is based on the direct experience of the author. Too often I've found that it makes objectivty impossible; sometimes, writing what you don't know makes for a more interesting perspective. This book, though, proved to be outstanding.<br />To illustrate why I think so, take this anecdote: Two soldiers in the narrator's battalion are playing 'catch' with a smoke grenade. One of them, stepping back to intercept a long pass, steps on a land mine. His name is Kurt Lemon. Later, when another soldier is retrieving pieces of his body from the branches of a tree, the narrator overhears him humming 'Lemon Tree.'<br />What O'Brien recongizes about war is its strangeness which defies most attempts at relation - it's grotesque and horrible, but also, like any real situation, sometimes engaging and even funny. This isn't to say that O'Brien glosses over the horrors of war; the book is extremely graphic and disturbing at times, but as he says at one point, describing the way that tracer shots look cutting through the dark: 'Your brain hates it, but your eyes love it.' What emerges is a competley immersive and sometimes overwhelming war experience, raw and organic, something like a thriller in its command of the reader's attention. What it never becomes is diatribe.<br />It isn't even always a direct narration, either. 'Sweetheart of the Song Tra Bong' is a surreal parable, and in 'The Man I Killed,' O'Brien experiments with narrative detachment and contrasts the importance of real truth with 'story truth.' While some stories show outright violence, many, like 'Night Life,' disturb more subtly be evoking the creepy general atmosphere of the war. The final story puts the book in a new perspective, making it something intensely personal.<br />'The Things They Carried' is an achievement in every way; as 'war literature,' as literature in general, as a good read and as autobiography. Incredible.	2004-04-23
US	20239306	R1EK49BH0Z8KGX	0553211757	755691955	Crime and Punishment (Bantam Classics)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Emotionally exhausting	When a book has a visceral effect on the reader, the author must be doing something right. My father complained of actually feeling sick while reading this, and I had a similiar reaction. There is a pervasive darkness here which is little to do with Raskalnikov's crime and punishment and everything to do with the grime and general despair of St. Petersburg. You can almost breath the coal dust in the air; physical and moral squalor taint everything. Even the supposedly good characters live in a state of degredation, and poverty is everwhere. Given this, the pure moral which Dostoevsky seems to try to draw out of it seems a bit ridiculous, and is the main flaw of the book in my eyes. He tries in the last stretch to uplift, but he's shown us too much squalor to make it believable. This book is a bit of a chore to read, I found, given its length and unremitting tone, and while it's clearly the work of a master author, I don't reccomend it unconditonally.	2004-04-17
US	20239306	R1I3UVAU5R8TU0	0380789035	337033298	American Gods	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Not his masterpiece	Weighing in at four hundred and sixty-one pages, rich in theme, inventive, researched and encompassing a massive vision, this book certainly seems like a kind of opus, but although it's a great read, I still think that Gaiman is capable of better.<br />His instinct is for escapist fantasy, showcased so well in Neverwhere, and American Gods is full of excess. Just as one phantasmagoric scene begins to settle in the mind, another is immediatley pitched at the reader, upsetting any sense of realism that might have developed. Granted, a novel about godhood in contemporary America can't be held to strictly realistic standards, but really skilled psuedo-fantasy can still have that urgent 'this is happening' sense, and American Gods often doesn't. The weakness is made more acute by the occasional moments of absolute realism, scenes involving ordinary people, which don't fit right with the rest of the novel. The impression I was left with was one of immaturity: 'Wow, wouldn't it be cool if all the classical Gods were just entities conjured up by people's minds, and still existed today?' But this would be forgivable, as in Neverwhere, if not for the novel's more realistic pretenstions, and a kind of seriousness it seems to aim for in the final chapters.<br />All that aside, Gaiman is a spectacular writer, and the setpieces of the novel have a cinematic quality. The writing is vivid and fluid throughout. The only scene which really seemed weak and difficulty to visualize (unfortunatley) was the climactic battle.<br />I'm still waiting on that masterpiece, and I am confident it will arrive.	2004-04-17
US	20239306	R1OP4ZGUVXWZZ0	0679722408	534846079	Runaway Horses: The Sea of Fertility, 2	Books	5	5	9	N	N	Standalone	No book sums up the austere, starkly proud side of Mishima's personality like Runaway Horses. Though it was written as part of the tetralogy and engineered stylistically and thematically for that purpose, it embodies its purpose, I think, better than any of the other three.<br />The style accentuates the theme. It's written in a more economical, less meandering way than Spring Snow, and the characters are more dynamic and quickly (though not sloppily) drawn. It has in common with Spring Snow an absolute mastery of the language, with no unneccesary details or sentences.<br />The character of Isao embodies the theme of patriotism without seeming to become its tool. He has a distinct personality, and it can be seen how his ideals stem from and compliment his inclinations. It never feels as though Mishima is putting words in his mouth (partly, though, because he is so much an aspect of Mishima). Some of his speeches are worth recording.<br />The final scene is masterfully described. The novel rises to a pitch and maintains it, painfully and beautifully, ending with one incredible sentence: &quot;As he plunged the knife into his stomach, the sun exploded behind his eyelids.&quot;	2004-04-15
US	20239306	R3QH1F3IOCB3PE	0316769487	862964341	The Catcher in the Rye	Books	5	1	5	N	N	Still the best	I never thought I would actually have to review this book; I sort of assumed that everyone knew it was great. If some people deem it worthy of less than a five-star review, though, I have to come to its defense.<br />Since it was written, no one has been able to achieve this level of complete absorbtion. It's every bit as relatable today as it was then. It's sacred.<br />Some people claim to have outgrown it. These are the sort of people you don't want to know.	2004-04-13
US	20239306	R20ZXI3234ORUM	1932234004	75828016	Ring	Books	5	3	7	N	N	The cutting edge	The book flap describes Suzuki as the 'Stephen King of Japan,' but this cool, ultrasharp book couldn't be less like a Stephen King. Based on a sense of profound cynicism, the narrative is mostly held up by a brutal and unsavory professor of philosophy, Ryuji Takayama, who claims to have raped several women, but who is still in some profound and strange way a more decent person than the protagonist, a weak and innocent regular guy who still manages to be incredibly, malevolently selfish. While some scenes do frighten in a lingering way, the novel's substance is in its ideas, and it's very much a period piece, very modern. The prose is minimal, but still manages to create a decent sense of setting and character, and the characters, even the 'sacrificial lambs' who obligatorily have to die in the first few chapters, seem like real people. Even if you normally don't go in for horror novels or anything with a hint of the paranormal in it, I think you'll like this one. Trust me. And, uh, remember who recommended it to you. That's H-e-n-r-y P-l-a-t-t-e.	2004-04-13
US	20239306	R6U6FQ8NFI0NB	006052149X	591760941	Dilbert and the Way of the Weasel: A Guide to Outwitting Your Boss, Your Coworkers, and the Other Pants-Wearing Ferrets in Your Life	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Weak start, takes off	I've always been a fan of Adams, but he's very frank about his own laziness. He can give people more of the same, and they'll lap it up. Still, while Dilbert stopped being funny some time ago, I thought that his prose work would remained fresh. After reading the first fifth of this book, I was getting concerned, but it gathers energy for a strong finish.<br />The beginning deals with the usual Dilbert fare - being a weasel, i.e. financially, emotionally and chronologically shortchanging your boss, co-workers and family members. Far too much space seems to be devoted to this material. A lot of his points are obvious, rehashes of things he's said too many times before, and it's not that funny. Near the end, though, Adams is like a drunk losing his inhibitions; his stories become more personal and his humor more robust, and some of the passages near the end still have the power to make you keel over with laughter. The story of the beginning of his career is particularly hilarious. The price is a bit high for a book which is only half-good, it still seems to me; read this one in the bookstore, on one or the comfy chairs they provide for you.	2004-04-13
US	20239306	R36GLT7TS96Y1N	0451524934	337991686	1984 (Signet Classics)	Books	2	2	22	N	N	It has to go	I can understand that maybe in the wake of Nazism and under the continuation of Stalinism, the message of this book might have seemed more relevant than it in fact is. Looking past that overplayed message, though, it's difficult to detect the kind of substance, complexity of theme and depth of character which ought to make a classic. The writing is decent, but it's time to stop touting it as something everyone should read. There's no need whatsoever to read it; get the three-sentence summary from someone who has: \\"This novel is about a totalitarian state. The abstract totalitarian authority figure is called 'big brother.' Totalitarianism is bad.\\" But it's not as though that message needs to get spread around these days.<br />As a seperate criticism, never minding that the message it obvious, it has quite a few weaknesses. Presenting the top five reasons why the scenario in this book would never, ever come about:<br />5) This is the English we're talking about, and they don't put up with much. I mean, they're too cool for a constitution; they've got by so far on _common law_. They've had totalitarian rulers, and when they got to be too much of a load to bear, they were beheaded.<br />4) If children were responsible for detecting unpariotic leanings in their parents, given the usual state of parent-child relations, the secret police would recieve upwards of six thousand false reports a day, and the department would collapse.<br />3) Aesthetics. People would complain of sexism and demand a 'big sister.' As ideals of beauty changed and people decided that Big Brother's omnipresent facade was unnatractive (too fat, maybe) they would lose all respect for him.<br />2) Corruption. The evil in this book is some sort of abstract, monolithic thing, but there are concievably real people behind it. Give a group of real people control of the hearts and minds of a country, and it won't be long before there's only one of them. He will eventually die. Chaos will follow.<br />1) Inefficiency. \\"Johnson, the spy camera in living unit 3J07 has been offline for six weeks; I thought you were going to take a look at it.\\" \\"I ordered the parts, sir; I don't know what went wrong. It's not my fault.\\" \\"Fleming, have you recieved an order for spy camera parts?\\" \\"It's difficult to say, sir. Not my department. You'll have to talk to Roberts, and he just left on vacation.\\"<br />If you want proof, just look at how quickly Nazism (and even Stalinism, though it was more persistent) fell apart. No pure system can survive for long.	2004-04-13
US	20239306	R1PDSM0927KYP4	0394718429	815123672	The Counterfeiters: A Novel	Books	5	6	7	N	N	&quot;Strip from the novel everything that does not belong to it&quot;	There's no shortage of quality literature, but it's not so often that you find someone who actually seems to be working with the limits of the medium, and stretching them. With this book, Gide did for the novel what people like Lynch and Tarentino have done for film.<br />'The Counterfeiters' is a novel presumably written by one of its characters, Edouard, who is planning to write a novel titled 'The Counterfeiters,' but is struggling with a case of writer's block. What seems to give him trouble is that the complexity of his experience keeps defying his attempts to apply a scheme of interpretation to it, and a sense of personal crisis which makes it difficult for him to maintain his objectivity as an artist. As a read, though, it isn't half as strange and experimental as that might make it sound; its wide cast of characters is typical of a traditional novel, such as War and Peace or a Tale of Two Cities, but Gide works with incredible subtley behind the scenes. Edouard's musing about the nature of narrative structure (to other characters) is suddenly reflected in his world, as though he were unconsciously God. The themes are tenuous and only gradually developed. Some characters are the ordinary sort of people who began to emerge in the literature of Twain, Dostoevsky and Turgenev, while some are more like the dramatic heroes of Shakespeare and Dickens. There's even a guest appearance by Alfred Jarry, the gleefully profane French dramatist of the period. Halfway through, in a chapter titled 'The Author Stops to Appraise his Characters,' Gide himself (or possibly Eduoard) offers his frank opinions on the characters (or real people?) who populate the novel.<br />If possible, buy a copy which includes 'The Journals...,' the record that Gide kept while writing this, which provides even more insight into his method.	2004-04-13
US	20239306	R2MWQ2XEIAEJNP	0142437301	512173793	The Power and the Glory (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Proof that not all intellectuals are atheists	Most Christian novelists aren't out to convert, not to the same extent that random lunatics on streetcorners are, but it's figures like Greene and Flannery O'Connor who have made the best argument, to me, for the validity of the religious life. It's best expressed in a work of art because it's so fragile and abstract. Which is not to say that 'The Power and the Glory' is some kind of one-track propoganda pamphlet; just the opposite. It depicts a complex reality in which the idea of God keeps re-emerging, as the only answer to the bizzare problems the characters are faced with; Greene's strength, and the strength of most great authors, is that they don't have to manipulate reality to get their characters to say what they want them to say. The vision of sickness and longing, ruin and folly; everything somehow points in one direction. I read that Greene claimed this novel to be 'written to a thesis,' and even though it's so much more complex than morality plays like Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress, I see that.	2004-04-12
US	20239306	R1YZTV04MO5J77	0679752684	529820051	The Sound of Waves	Books	4	3	4	N	N	&quot;That great joke on the public&quot;	...is how, according to Nathan's biography, Mishima referred to this book on several occasions. It does seem very uncharacteristic, being a straightforward love story, showing great interest in its humble setting and without Mishima's trademark disdain for 'ordinary people,' but I think it may have been as true to his aesthetic inclinations as his darker works. It highlights the other side of the tradition which fascinated him - the life-affirming courage and old-fashioned masculine code of the samurai, as opposed to the more morbid dictate that the samurai 'must die each day in his mind.' Near the end, a character makes a remark along the lines of: 'Shinji's got guts. That's really all that matters,' and that seems to sum this book up pretty well. I think this book may have meant more to Mishima than he admitted. It's certainly accesible to those who wouldn't like his more intense stuff, and provides a spot of definite interest for fans.	2004-04-12
US	20239306	R2IR2PTONBZ28X	0140184929	851296858	Brighton Rock (Twentieth Century Classics)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	&quot;Only God may judge me&quot;	If you can get over the fact that the menacing antihero is named Pinky, and resist the urge to put words his mouth along the lines of, 'Eh, Dallow, wot are we going to do tonight? Wee-hee-hee; narf!', you'll find this to be one of the most rewarding thrillers out there. Its style gathers enormous momentum, with long, elaborate sentences like gasps of air, and it's difficult to put down. The character of Pinky is one of Greene's most compelling; like any great villian, he arouses both sympathy and disgust, and his eventual failure is almost dissapointing. Greene's usual themes of guilt and redemption and poverty are well turned-out. Also interesting is the half-revealed backstory, never made explicit; the pace of the novel is such that there's no time for exposition. It's a brilliant, vicious knife-thrust of a book, and one of Greene's best.	2004-04-12
US	20239306	R1A5SR8XMLR8EH	0140184945	158590394	The Comedians (Twentieth Century Classics)	Books	4	2	4	N	N	A solid classic	This book didn't move me personally to the extent of The Power and the Glory or Brighton Rock, but it's one of Greene's richest, most dilineated and consistent narratives. The humor is top-notch, and the sense of underlying sadness is persistent; sometimes, both combine in one spectacular scene - near the end, the exhausted American altruist stands in front of a crowd of Hatian beggars, literally throwing the last of his money at them with no expression on his face. One weakness, though, is a factor which ruined a lot of his later work, his communist leanings. It's not that I object to them on principle, but I don't feel like he ever really developed a groundwork for the ideology; he just makes his bleeding-heart characters into heroes, treating it in a similiar way as his religious themes, but something as concrete as a social system has to be dealt with more concretely than religion. You can't expect someone to have faith in communism. In the end, though, the damage from this is minor; a greater problem is the weakness of several important characters, one of them the main love interest. The presence of many strong main characters does compensate for this, however. This isn't one of Greene's spy thrillers, but it still builds a nice amount of tension near the end, and occasional bursts of action keep it from getting too weighed down in the malaise which effects the characters so deeply.	2004-04-12
US	20239306	R8S93BZX8WYZK	0684871254	601572736	The Honorary Consul: A Novel (Simon & Schuster Classics)	Books	2	7	22	N	N	Dull, listless, sad	This is what happens when great authors go to seed. It seems like a cruel mockery of a Greene novel, parading the same old themes around, corrupted more than ever by an unjustified excess liberalism. There isn't a single living character here, and even though the prose is generally competent, I think it has to be buried in consideration of the man's memory.	2004-04-12
US	20239306	R17ZTDOEM2PGN6	0811201171	266859022	Death in Midsummer: And Other Stories (New Directions Paperbook)	Books	5	5	8	N	N	His talent	Yukio Mishima was many things in his life; an author was only one of them. In general, I have more respect for him as a personality than I do for his individual books. I could go on all day about the man himself, but my praise of this or that novel is usually conditional, and when I find myself thinking of books to re-read just for enjoyment's sake, he usually isn't near the top of my list. I think that these stories are some of his highest-quality work, though, and I can recommend them without any reservations, not just to enthusiasts of Japanese culture or the sort of magnificently sick aesthetic that Mishima represents. The title story, although as coldly inhuman as much of Mishima's work, still seems pyschologically accurate. The second story, Three Thousand Yen, is disarmingly and uncharacteristically sweet, but tempered by a more characteristic ending. Patriotism is probably the standout of this standout, with flawless prose, again backing Mishima's vision with a realistic setting. 'Pearl' is clever, and 'Onegata' is another very polished story, a good candidate for anthologization. 'Swaddling Clothes' is a personal favorite, wickedly barbed and haunting. The greatest strength of this collection is that Mishima never seems to be repeating himself - he explores his central themes from different angles, in a variety of styles, and provides something of outstanding artistic merit.	2004-04-12
US	20239306	RI6RFTM1LV3XY	0140185364	806263380	The Ministry of Fear: An Entertainment (Penguin Twentieth Century Classics)	Books	4	1	6	N	N	A cry for help	The sense of dread and agony pervading this novel makes 'Crime and Punishment' seem like an upbeat self-help guide. I couldn't help but feel that this orginiated in the author; clearly, it reflects the psyche of a person who wrestled with a lot of difficult questions and who didn't always find easy answers, and it makes the smug liberalism of his later works seem all the more ridiculous. As for a more concrete description of the novel, though, I think of it as a less life-affirming 'One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest,' evoking similiar nightmares of control, full of grotesque scenes and characters, with the occasional glimpse of hope - but even the few happy moments the protagonist is offered are tinged with doubt. The immense guilt that he feels for having killed his wife in an act of mercy - I can't help but feel there's some kind of religious undertone here - can never really be erased, but the world around him is so awful that his own crime is often put in perspective.	2004-04-12
US	20239306	R2NF6ZHSCRF913	0385509472	159804419	Diary: A Novel	Books	4	1	3	N	N	He improves	I grudgingly admit that Palahniuk is one of our best living authors. Grudgingly, because I think his cult status allows him to get away with too much sometimes, resorting to cheap cleverness in his style, blasting his message without caring who's listening...when I heard him read from Diary (which was a definite experience), he mentioned a desire to be more subtle and to stop 'preaching to the choir' so much, which I applaud, and which I think has been succesful. With 'Choke,' he told a surprisingly down-to-earth and excellent story, but followed with the unfortunate, completley over-the-top Lullaby, and now comes Diary, which is back in the same groove as Choke. The protagonist and other characters seem much more human, and the setting much more real (probably because, for the first time, he pays considerable attention to setting). His trademark style - repetition, fragmentation, the occasional fine-tuned sentence - works to better effect than ever, and when the plot finally begins to swell to more grandiose proportions near the end, it actually seems interesting instead of just, 'oh, there he goes again.'<br />There are moments, though, which still seem indulgent. For instance a certain character's sideline in the porcelain business: this grandmother labors to find rare, outdated patterns for her customers, and at one point ponders: &quot;Why is it that people only want a pattern after it's been discontinued?&quot; This kind of blunt social commentary can't really be seen as anything else.<br />In the end, I think he still has some ways to go, but Diary is promising, not to mention a good book on its own terms. It's not as funny as Fight Club or Survivor, but I like to think that with books like this, Palahniuk's cult status will endure past this century.	2004-04-11
US	20239306	R1ZP7OMM9YONQ5	0385498721	179075750	Survivor: A Novel	Books	4	0	1	N	N	It's just funny	Yes, you can critique this book for many reasons. Its message isn't always as deep as it seems to think. It moves very quickly as an excuse not to look at anything too deeply. The view of society it presents is, to say the least, one-sided. But where will you find a contemporary novel that's this funny? The main character gets off some of the best one-liners I've ever encountered (&quot;It's easy to feel superior to the dead; like, if Michelangelo was so smart, why'd he die?&quot;), and even sentences which aren't explcitly funny just have a certain charm that still makes you laugh (&quot;The best place to find flowers is in the dumpster behind the mausoleum.&quot;) I also found the romance in this book to be the sweetest, most sympathetic one in any of Palahniuk's works. Don't take this book too seriously, but read it.	2004-04-11
US	20239306	R31NCYWZF1XEFW	0679753796	323270866	Dance Dance Dance	Books	5	5	5	N	N	In a word, fun	I would still rate 'South of the Border, West of the Sun' more highly, but this is Murakami's most flat-out entertaining novel. Although it's billed as a sequel to Wild Sheep Chase, and it is about the same character, _all_ of Murakami's novels seem to be about the same basic everyman character, and reading Sheep Chase first isn't neccesary (I read this before I read Sheep Chase). Still, Sheep Chase, as Murakami's first novel, provides a good point of reference.<br />The characters in Dance, Dance, Dance are almost exponentially more vibrant than those in Sheep Chase, from the bored, occasionally clairvoyant young girl who might have stepped out of a Salinger novel, to the plucky one-armed American poet. There's an almost cartoonish (not in at all a bad way) quality to these people; they stand out that much, and are that sharply drawn. The intriguing criticism of genius offered in Sheep Chase recurs, more subtly and kindly, in the form of a brilliant woman photographer who happens to be a very poor mother. Murakami is also unexpectedly kind to another character, the superificial actor Gotanda, who reveals a sharply human side. In the end, that may be exactly it about this novel; a sense of warmth and quiet joy underneath everything, even the more sinister events, which not many novels of this modernist type can muster. Every stroke of good fortune seems deserved, and every tragedy is lamented.	2004-04-10
US	20239306	R2YEPS54WUB3NV	014016622X	546056497	Nuremberg : Infamy on Trial	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Everything you ever wanted to know about the Nazis	This is one of the only nonfiction books I've ever read, and it was well worth the effort. Although nearly everyone will be quick to place Hitler at the top of their 'most evil men in history' list, the rest of the Nazi coterie are not so well known, and what we find is a cast of characters worthy of any fictional account. You have Albert Speer, the sensitive and morally astute architect who nevertheless relied on slave labor to build his masterpieces; Goering, a bombastic wit who destroyed his captors and fellow inmates alike; Von Schirach, the eerily handsome youth leader described by one prosecution attorney as 'the sort of scout master who molests young boys;' Von Schacht, the imposing old financial genius who admits, grudginly, that he has some trouble with basic arithmetic;  Julius Streicher, the lunatic propogandist, who swears at children and does nude calisethnics in front of the guard assigned to watch him.<br />The account is, however, very long, and I found the sections about the various other personalities involved in the trial uninteresting (well, it's difficult to compete with some of the most dramtically evil men of the century). If you're willing to skim a few passages (which is would be unacceptable in a novel, but which doesn't do much harm with a work like this), I think you'll find this very interesting, whether as a student of history, an artist, or anyone attempting to expand their knowledge of human nature.	2004-04-10
US	20239306	R1QGFNU420IQX3	030680977X	257858329	Mishima: A Biography	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Personal, informative, penetrating	In his introduction, Nathan admits that Mishima would probably be furious that these facts regarding his life had been brought to light. Though it is debtable whether he was arrogant or only proud, sensitive to other people or contemptous of them, Mishima certainly seemed to have very little interest in being understood, and had a carefully crafted public image. I think, though, that if there has to be a biography, we could hardly hope for a better one.<br />Nathan knew Mishima personally, and his occasional self-referencing serves to make the account more relatable, instead of stealing attention from Mishima. He approaches the subject as humbly as possible, both in regard to Japanese culture, as a westerner, and in regard to Mishima, in trying to reserve judgment. Mishima's actions may be difficult to understand, and it would be all too tempting to describe them as bizzare or wrong, but Nathan slips up on very few occasions (near the end, he does say something in reference to Mishima's suicide along the lines of, 'otherwise, it must seem a terrible waste' -bleah). His sincere desire to understand is evident. Of course, intention alone doesn't make a good biography; 'Mishima' is also liberally packed with information, highlighting incidents which must have had an influence on Mishima's work, reproduced passages from his earliest, unpublished stories, and the views of family members and friends. His occasional attempts to analyze Mishima's work are also interesting, and he never seems to overstep his bounds (as, say, Walter Kauffman does with Nietzsche); his verdict is always tentative and presented as only one man's opinion. 'Mishima' succeeds as both a straightforward biography for anyone who wants the facts, and a sensitive commentary from someone who had the right to comment.	2004-04-10
US	20239306	R3B655XJII10UM	0393322157	805709963	Glue	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Missive from a convert	Ever since the 'Trainspotting' movie brought Welsh to the broad attention of Americans, including me, I for some reason thought of him as a flash-in-the-pan talent, someone who got away with writing about 'real life,' using the rankness of his subject matter as an excuse for poor style. This was probably due to the fact that all of his books were on similiar topics - Scottish heroin addicts, Scottish football hooligans, Scottish heroin addicts who are also football hooligans...<br />Of course, I couldn't have been more wrong. When I finally decided to give 'Glue' a try, I had a new favorite author within days. It starts out solidly, then really takes off with the chapters in first person describing the adolescences of the main characters. All four of them are entirely believable, engaging and likeable, in different ways, and their points of view contribute to a general understanding of the society around them. Welsh's command of dialect, though, which seemed like a cheap gimmick to me before, is his real brilliance, and the humor - ranging from satire to jokes made by the characters to outright slapstick - is hysterical. It got so that my roommate had to go out whenever I started reading, as I had no choice but to read out loud, in my horrible put-on Scottish accent, and break down laughing every several pages. One character in particular, Carl Ewart, is brilliant, the kind of guy you'd like to know in real life, and it's no wonder Welsh uses his voice to describe one of the longest episodes. The novel does lose some momentum when it switches out of first person for the later half, and a load of new characters are suddenly introduced, but it survives; the new characters are interesting as well, and the shift seem justified by the direction of the plot. Some sections do seem a little contrived, in a sort of Dickensian way - we have to find out what happened to everyone who appeared in the first part, characters are referenced needlessly by other characters in conversation to remind the reader that they exist - but it does seem Dickensian, more of a throwback to classic literature than a weakness on the author's part. As for the accusation that I would have leveled at Welsh before, that all his books are the same - a lot of people have pointed out already that this is a novel about friendship, while Trainspotting is basically a novel about heroin. It's true, it does feature Renton's moral dilemma regarding ripping off his mates, but it has a lot more insight on the issue of drug use, while this novel deals as profoundly with human relationships over time.	2004-04-10
US	20239306	RNAH0QRLL64XB	0802135684	622239816	Cockpit (Kosinski, Jerzy)	Books	5	21	21	N	N	A good representation	It's hard to decide which of Kosinski's vignette-based novels is the best, since they're all fairly similiar, and passages are interchangeable. There are slight varitations in theme - the protagonist of The Painted Bird is a child, and in Blind Date you have an investor, while in The Devil Tree you have a wealthy young man, but on the whole each one is as good as another. Considering it, though, I think that Cockpit is the best overall, with some of the most interesting vignettes and the most consistently good writing, and one of the stronger protagonists. It's also the only Kosinski book which I can really say shocked me - usually, I'm prepared for the horrible things which his characters do to each other, remembering that it is Kosinski even when things seem to be going well, but there's an episode in Cockpit involving the elderly which took me by surprise. I reccomend this as an introduction to Kosinski's work, or, if you only read one, make it this.	2004-04-10
US	20239306	R21R2W9ZW4GO6L	0060934662	368310783	Resuscitation of a Hanged Man	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Strange, but good	This novel is quite bizzare. Not just garden-variety modernist bizzare, either. Odd things happen. Nothing is predictable; problems are solved in the most impossible ways, and relationships undergo incredible, unbelievable contortions - I can't explain why it works, but after closing it, and after blinking a couple of time and thinking _Boy_ was that weird, I had a sense of having finished something very profound. I think that for once Denis Johnson is completley on top of his game. He's incredibly talented, and he always displays that talent, but his other novels sometimes take _effort_ to appreciate - if you know what I mean - but here, you really have the sense that he knows more than you, that he's holding all the cards, that he knows exactly where the story is going and what effect he wants it to have on you. I think the fact that he could make a cohesive story around such a group of oddballs with such an outrageous plot is testament enough to his ability, but it's also a very good read. That said, it is really, really bizzare, and doesn't _settle_ easily - which I guess is the point, since the vision it holds out is one without much comfort and with a great deal of horror and grotesquery - but I generally prefer books which are at least somewhat more human.	2004-04-09
US	20239306	R1GYEWDFRCUHTM	006092909X	123693579	Already Dead: A California Gothic	Books	3	9	11	N	N	Reads like a first draft	Everything characteristic of Johnson is here - the poetic style, the originality, the brilliantly and efficiently sketched characters, the eccentric and engaging themes, the vision of transcendence - but it's just not a polished work. It's extremely long, meandering and often losing the thread of the plot; disturbed by meaningless shifts in the method of narration (from first to third person to retrospective documents), marred by far too much stream-of-consciousness rambling, such as a series of letters written by a lunatic which hold no interest at all; the characterization, also, doesn't feel concrete, and the most important characters (Van Ness in particular) have a weak presence in the narrative, and their motiviations are often unclear, while minor characters recieve huge amounts of attention and then are suddenly forgotten. The themes also seem a bit too overt at times, and Johnson verges on self-satire, in one episode in particular which bears a suspicious and unflattering resemblance to his earlier 'Angels,' and in another passage which annoyed me unreasonably, where he makes referrence to a specific album by the Violent Femmes, which seemed entirely personal and unrelatable.<br />I'd always wondered why his other novels were extremely short. This would explain it.	2004-04-09
US	20239306	R2LQIH9WFZVMBU	0060976101	432530153	The Stars at Noon	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Vastly underrated	This is easily some of Johnson's best work. Granted, it's short, and there may not be enough space to develop such an ambitious story in such a setting, but I think he selects all the right details. One sentence is enough to bring some strange corner of a horrifyingly corrupt city into focus(...). <br />It's not up to the mythic level of Jesus' Son, true, but it's a different kind of book. It's less personal, and gives a better sense of society in general, a convincing world. I recommend it very highly.	2004-04-09
US	20239306	R2ZA803CK3XKGX	0060929650	641342878	The Name of the World: A Novel	Books	4	2	3	N	N	He drops the ball	For the first nine-tenths, maybe, this novel is almost perfect; I got the sense that no _word_ could be replaced. The measured complacency of the prose gives a perfect sense of character; a sense of a man, in fact, who doesn't have a great deal of character, and is aware of it. It's seamless. I never questioned anything about the book - never found myself thinking of it as a novel, or of the narrator as a narrator; I just kept reading it. Near the end, though, it starts to fail. Its climax is so enigmatic - so self-consciously engimatic, it seemed to me - that it doesn't give any real sense of closure, and the small hole that this opens up is absolutley ripped open by the sudden, inexplicable developments on the last few pages (not to ruin anything; the narrator goes through a transformation which didn't seem believable or precedented to me). I think this novel's strongest trait, in the end, is its dignity. Johnson doesn't go overboard with the metaphors or the sense of religious longing; everything is very quiet, subtle and dark, but the sense of something greater still comes through. Again, though, with the right conclusion, it could have been overwhelming; as it is, it's just interesting.	2004-04-09
US	20239306	RWT1K31RMSME0	0060988827	355021994	Angels: A Novel	Books	5	13	15	N	N	Flannery O'Connor was reincarnated as this man	Johnson is one of our greatest and most underappreciated living authors (yes, underappreciated, even though he has been lavishly praised by critics). He isn't just capable of writing a good book or two, he's a classic talent, and it's obvious from his very first novel. Angels reads like an epic poem - every sentence is carefully weighed and effective, and a sense of character emerges even out of shattered impressions. The flawed characters are still somehow endearing, and the sense of dark and cryptic religion, from occultism to by-the-book Christianity, underpinned by Bob Dylan's 'Like a Rolling Stone,' is powerful. This book should be read and enjoyed; eventually, also, reprinted and remembered.	2004-03-23
US	20239306	R29L914WQ8LC2Y	0140283382	468027632	Gravity's Rainbow	Books	5	11	15	N	N	Singing! Dancing! Debauchery!	This book has an undeserved reputation. People I've known refer to it as though it were some kind of monolithic, unapproachable text, like the Bible, or the Greek translation of the bible. Yes, it's not an easy read, but it's only really trying if you're reading it as a 'great novel,' trying to figure out what Pynchon is saying all the time. If you just read it, I think, you'll enjoy yourself, and maybe some resonance of a point will emerge afterwards. There is a motive here, but basically the book is just fun. I hear GR condemned as 'pretentious' all the time. But how can you say that about a book in which ten pages never pass without some character bursting into song, in which the protagonist is chased in a hot-air balloon by a gang of limerick-reciting thugs, in which a girl is attacked by a giant octopus, a book which sheds light on the great Mother's Conspiracy? One thing GR never is is boring. At the beginning, the narrative is perfectly coherent with only a few eccentricities of style; by the end, when it really starts disintegrating, you've gotten used to it. And although I've said it isn't that difficult, there is some prestige in having finished a book which has defeated so many intellectuals. Read it, and the next time you hear someone complaining about the dense prose, say brightly: &quot;Oh yeah, I loved that book! Especially the limericks!&quot;	2004-03-21
US	20239306	R1ABWZBS4QMSM7	0679750150	483468836	The Sailor Who Fell from Grace with the Sea	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Hail to the Chief!	This is Mishima working at the height of his abilities, doing what he always did best: combining believable psychology with an electrifying vision of glory, power and death. It centers around a small group of characters undergoing relatively normal changes (a man and a woman fall in love, a boy has to deal with his complicated feelings for a potential stepfather and the man has to reconcile his desire for a home with his perverse love of the sea), the sort of thing a much more low-key introspective novel could have been written about, and then it goes insane. Whenever a character takes any action, it seems to have both a mundane motive (love, hatred, jealousy) and a completley superhuman motive. A malignant vision is lurking around the characters as they talk about simple things, kiss, or eat dinner. There is a character who seems completley born of that vision: the Chief, the leader of a gang of young intellectuals who is best described as pure evil, and whose speeches have a Shakespearian brilliance, even when they border on insanity. I love this kid.<br />My only criticism is that it seems hurried at times, as though Mishima got incredibly psyched about the idea and decided to finish the book in one sitting. Passages rush along deleriously, sometimes stumbling on a weak or overly explicity metaphor, and sometimes shortening what seems like an important exchange. It's a very short book, and although its compact energy is its strength, it maybe could have stood to be a little longer. I certainly would have liked to read more.<br />I should note that it isn't as explicitly violent as I for one was led to believe before I read it. There's only one scene with actual bloodshed (leading to the Chief's timeless remark, &quot;Isn't all this blood a sight for sore eyes?&quot;); the rest of the violence is implied, and nothing seems excessive or tasteless.	2004-03-20
US	20239306	R1WAVBNJD2XGWJ	037571894X	858260451	A Wild Sheep Chase: A Novel	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Food for thought	Murakami is known for his unconventional storytelling, sometimes completley surrealist, in which images have more importance than ideas. When he seems to be trying to say something cohesive, it's still hidden behind layers of strange imagery. What I liked best about A Wild Sheep Chase was that the message was so direct - and, at least to me, interesting. It seems to be suggesting that humanity and 'greatness' are irreconcilable (of course, it's a lot more complicated than that), which is especially interesting in contrast with a reference to Yukio Mishima near the beginning. I found it very though-provoking.<br />On other levels, though, it isn't so succesful. A lot of the characters are very thinly drawn. This may be intentional; it works in the case of the main character, who I guess is supposed to be one of those everymen, but his girlfriend, for example, has such a total absence of personality that when she disappears from the narrative, it seems like an attempt by the author to get rid of an awkward character. A few of the characters really are outstanding - the villians, and one eccentric chauffer, but they are mainly present in the first half of the book. Later, when the narrative rests entirely on the protagonist and his girlfriend, it gets  somewhat boring. Its first novel status, though, is more than an excuse for that. I still recommend it.	2004-03-20
US	20239306	RH7S67YANVHSD	0679767398	231777935	South of the Border, West of the Sun: A Novel	Books	5	3	3	N	N	&quot;Pretend you're happy when you're blue...&quot;	He's usually recognized for his 700+ page epic The Wind-up Bird Chronicle, but in my opinion this book is his masterpiece. He seems to have figured out all he really wanted to say, and said it; he's trimmed everything superfluous to the story, leaving the very simple, very moving chronicle of a certain man's love life. The writing is instinctive and unpretentious, and you never feel the author's agenda sort of creeping up on you - but at the same time, it has a more interesting agenda (maybe too strong a word) of any Murakami since A Wild Sheep Chase, and is extremely convincing. Reflecting on what it seems to be saying about human nature, I think 'that's true, that's really true,' even though it didn't agree with my views at all. I also like the way some things - the secrets of Shimamoto's life - are never made explicit. What really made it great for me, though, was a very powerful image in the final pages, worth several novels about romantic longing.	2004-03-19
US	20239306	R1XVAHP6HEE2Z9	0385334206	739505736	Breakfast of Champions: A Novel	Books	1	26	56	N	N	This book makes me angry	This may sound like the kind of frothing review written by somebody who never read the book, but who dislikes the author and gives a bad review on principle; this isn't the case. I liked Vonnegut when I picked up this novel, on account of the much better Cat's Cradle and Mother Night, but after reading Breakfast I began to change my mind. <br />I don't think people should be able to get away with writing books like this.<br />It's self-indulgent. It's heavy-handed, smug, obnoxious and fatuous; even if I agreed with Vonnegut completley, I don't think I would be able to stomach it. His philosophy is presented as a matter of fact, in short, self-satisfied bursts of introspection, while characters from his other novels blunder around pointlessly - but what separates this novel from some existentialist or surrealist masterpiece is the disgusting, homespun sentimentality evident on every single page. It's a grand combination of nonsense and mawkishness, peppered, just for the heck of it apparently, with the tons of 'cute' sexual references and the occasional obscene drawing. Because Vonnegut himself is such an overbearing presence in the novel, I found myself hating him personally when I had finished it. Please, please don't buy this book; bury the abberation, don't let other authors think that this is what the novel has become.	2004-03-18
US	20239306	R3RFI6GI7W1XRH	0765603004	431873560	Silk and Insight (Studies of the Pacific Basin Institute)	Books	3	6	8	N	N	No wonder it wasn't translated sooner	This book was apparently the reason for a falling-out between Mishima and his translator-to-be-biographer John Nathan, and after reading this tardy translation it's easy to see why. Mishima got lazy, and it's difficult to believe that he really thought this was his best work. It seems instead like he wrote it just for the sake of writing something. It is apparent from it that he was a writer of skill and experience: the characters behave consistently, their motivations are developed, the events are grounded by believable scenery and the story is evenly paced - but it's just lifeless. Mishima doesn't seem to care about any of the characters, there are no memorable scenes (like the festival in Thirst For Love) or interesting ideas, and the resolution offers no fresh perspective on the issues involved. The strike itself is practically glossed over. The only parts I enjoyed were the ones involving Okano and his complex cynical philosophy, especially near the end, but this could have stood to be developed more, instead of the motivations of the other characters. Although Nathan missed out on translating the Sea of Fertility by refusing to translate Silk and Insight, I really can't blame him.	2004-03-18
US	20239306	R2O4QJQ65RIFZ9	0385503857	264457638	Oryx and Crake: A Novel (Atwood, Margaret Eleanor)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	This book is amazing...	...and Atwood is one of the last people I would have expected to write it. It reminds me of Hesse's Demain; something written by an older, established author that speaks to the younger generation. If the name of some unknown twentysomething had been on the cover instead of Atwood's, I wouldn't have been at all surprised, but it's all the more to her credit that she was able to make this uncharacterstic effort.<br />Straightforward, moralizing dystopia a la 1984 this isn't; it's closer, I think, to Stephenson's Snow Crash, though better by a long shot. It does carry a conservation message of a kind, but its value is just in the sheer scope and imagination of the world it creates, and the humanity of the characters in that world. The future of every modern trend is shown in grand satiric tradition: immobile chicken plants, a proliferation of live internet snuff films and colleges bidding for students, but there are no clear good guys - griping lefty college students are described as 'bulls*** technicians,' and in one particularly funny scene the anti-chicken-plant activists attempt to 'liberate' the chicken plants from their habitat; a TV anchor observes 'can they even walk?' <br />The three main characters carry the plot handily; Jimmy is believable and likeable, while Crake is dramatic and enviable, anime-ish. Their motivations as individuals can be seperated from the trends of their society - notice that what ultimatley results in apocalypse are not the trends leading society into decline, but a desire to reverse those trends and improve humanity. Crake's tragedy is personal. The passages in the 'present' are also effective, showing that life endures even after apocalypse, and providing some very tense moments. Again, the real strength of the book is how modern it seems; the vernacular, fashion trends and changing human relations are both recognizable from the present and plausible-seeming as a future. The only thing that annoys me somewhat is the overt symbolism in the 'games'-you'll see what I mean.<br />A lot of young Americans probably wanted to write this book, but only an author as accomplished as Atwood could pull it off succesfully.	2004-03-18
US	20239306	R2R3G28PWUJ6GP	0684853159	2967327	The WASP FACTORY: A NOVEL	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Precocious	I read this book when I was fourteen, and it instantly became my second-favorite. Looking back and rereading it now, I can see why. It's an extremely adolescent book, full of violence and attempted socioloy and grotesque images. I still think it's excellent, but it's obviously a first novel. I think it would have been better for Banks to focus on the reality of situation without dragging any theory into it (especially when the theory is elaborated by the protagonist himself; very awkward). That said, the plot is extremely clever, and some of the images are just brilliant: the executions, the workings of the factory  and the other various rituals. It would make a great movie.	2004-03-17
US	20239306	R22KSKW5B4XFAW	080213422X	640122618	The Painted Bird	Books	5	13	19	N	N	Unsentimental	It's always irritated me when people talk about the Nazis and the period of the Second World War in general as though they were some kind of abberation, an inhuman evil which is rarely witnessed. As Kosinski shows us, cruelty is intrinsic, and any moral or lesson drawn by historians pales when compared with the incomprehensible reality of an event. The Polish villagers misreat the protagonist viciously while a Nazi soldier actually takes pity on him; rather than finding relief on his return to society, he is disgusted and coddled by it. The only largely good characters in the novel, the Russians, constantly harp on the goodness of Stalin (and we know the truth). World War Two may be more complex than anyone can ever show, but Kosinski admits that complexity as not many people have attempted to. I was surprised, also, by the sympathy that Kosinski develops for the protagonist. The kid is _tough_, simply, and there's something very endearing about it; also, the way he constantly tries to figure out the world, throwing in his lot with God, and then with the Devil, and then with the communists, is extremely relatable; it's the sort of conflict any child goes through. Viewed from a certain angle, it's just an incredibly twisted coming-of-age story.	2004-03-17
US	20239306	R2LNY16RXVIOEF	0375705163	247994375	Forbidden Colors	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A feel-good story for pessimists	This is one of Mishima's more subdued novels. Although his trademark ideas about death, beauty and glory are present, it is more concerned with psychological study, and the view it takes is extremely bleak. He does an amazing job of portraying the shallowness and hypocrisy of a wide variety of people, from the pretentious and embittered author (who seems more than somewhat autobiographical) to the foppish members of the Japanese homosexual underground, and the flightly and neurotic women who are ruined (deservedly, you often feel) by the author's schemes. If that sort of thing depresses you, you're better off looking elsewhere. I enjoyed it, and sometimes found it very funny, but I would complain that the story seems to drag a little. These characters can't carry such a long story, since they are trapped by their vices and only become more and more pathetic. I would have been happy if it were about a hundred pages shorter. Also, I wouldn't look here for any profound insight into the nature of homosexuality; I don't think Mishima was really concerned with that, here or elsewhere. Homosexuality is a device used to expose flaws in society.	2004-03-16
US	20239306	RAXAX07J1ZE4S	0679721614	85588534	Ark Sakura	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Expert modern fable	Thematically, this novel is similar to Abe's more famous book, 'The Woman in the Dunes;' it emphasizes a sense of community and connection with others. What I like about it (among other things) is that it's hardly a sledgehammer philosophical message; it allows for vaguery. The main character is a misanthrope whose personal philosophy seems to be the target of criticism, yet he is never overtly punished and is capable of questioning his views. The other characters are liars, criminals and dirty old men, but all are made sympathetic to some degree in the face of global holocaust. As far as the writing goes, it is very straightforward. I think Abe does an amazing job of both developing character and allowing the reader to visualize such an outlandish setting as the Ark.	2004-03-15
