US	20324674	R1VXLDCBUSS3AQ	0843949163	214085109	In the Dark	Books	5	8	10	N	N	A suspenseful and well crafted mystery	Jane is a librarian that leads your everyday average existence. That is until she receives a mysterious envelope with her name on it. Curiousity gets the better of her and she looks inside. Jane finds a fifty dollar bill, and a note giving a clue where to find more money, that is mysteriously signed with the initials M.O.G. ( Master of Games). Everytime she manages to find an envelope, the amount of money doubles and the tasks to find the next envelope become increasingly more difficult and degrading. As Jane becomes obsessed with earning more and more money, she soon begins to realize that the person behind the game knows a lot about her as well. As Jane gets herself in deeper and deeper to become richer and discover who the \\"Master of Games\\" really is in the process, she may be forced to do things where the risk outweighs the reward.  <br /> <br />Richard Laymon's \\" In The Dark\\" is the best mystery that I have read in quite awhile. It is hard to remember a book that keeps you glued to the pages and hooked like this one. You are literally unable to put the book down after the first page. There are two things that really keep your interest in the story. The first is the lengths that Jane will go for the money. It is very interesting watching Jane pushing herself to the limit and then some. The second aspect of the story that really drags you in, is trying to discover the identity of the MOG and what his motivation behind all of it is too. Laymon hides the identity of MOG really well. The whole time, you are thinking that it could literally be anyone. You are usually able to nail down at least a couple of suspects, but it is impossible in this book! The ending is spectacular. Many times , a good book can be ruined by a horrible ending. But not in this case. It is the perfect end, to an enjoyable thrill ride.  <br /> <br />Richard Laymon's \\"In the Dark\\" offers great characters, realistic and funny dialogue, and a hard to solve mystery. I highly recommend this book tofans of the mystery genre or those who are looking for a suspenseful story to read.	2004-11-20
US	20324674	R29H8AA898FDH0	0451180410	215863794	Mortal Fear	Books	5	1	2	N	N	An incredible book. Highly recommended!!	Harper Cole is a man that leads two lives. By day he trades commodities over the Internet out of his isolated Mississippi farmhouse. By night, he is the systems operator of EROS. EROS is an exclusive , sexually explicit on-line service. It guarantees complete privacy and confidentiality to its rich and famous clients. Unfortunately, someone has made it past EROS's top of the line security, and has used the sight to pick and kill six women celebrities. Each time the weapon, and city are different, but the trophy the same. Suddenly Harper is looked at as the prime suspect, and there is only one way to bring the killer out into the open. But Harper has sexual secrets of his own. His plan could not only expose them all, but put everyone he loves in the path of the killer.  <br /> <br />This book was responsible for introducing me to Greg Iles, and making me a lifetime fan of his. He is one of the most talented writers that I have ever come across. \\"Mortal Fear\\" offers unbelieveable suspense, outstanding characters, and a brilliant and complex story that will shock and disturb you. I have never read a story that looks into such taboo subjects reguarding sex. There are also so many twists, turns, and close calls that it will drive you crazy. Greg Iles' knowledge of computers and technology in general will really amaze you. It makes the computer related events in the book seem very realistic and believeable. The story also reads at a very fast pace and the 622 pages fly by!! I read Mortal Fear in one day, and I was literally up around the clock until I finished it.  <br /> <br />The characters are extremely well developed. Harper Cole has to risk everything to put a stop to the killer and it weighs heavilly on him! The inner conflict that he faces weighs on you as a reader because he must expose certain aspects of his past in order to stop the killer. Harper's best friend Miles is outstanding. As the book goes on, he will look more and more guilty, but he always has a wayto make you question whether or not he is the killer. This adds a great element of mystery to the story. The fact that it hits so close to home for Harper is what makes the character of Miles so intriguing. Miles is a character that's intelligent, and funny which provides for some good laughs. It is hard to doubt a character that is so likeable. The story's villan is my favorite character. Now practically every work of fiction has a villan. However, in my opinion, \\"Mortal Fear\\" offers the best villan that I have ever come across in a book. He is an equal match for Harper in everyway, and almost better. Not knowing if Harper will succeed is what adds such suspense. He will shock you , disturb you, and amaze you with his strength, intelligence, and overall savage behavior. Greg Iles' character development is amazing overall. The dialogue he provides for them is realistic and you feel like you get to know each character personally.  <br /> <br />I guarantee that this book will become a favorite of yours. Greg Iles combines non-stop suspense, with wonderful characters, an even better villan, and a realistic, no-holds barred look into sex and the world of computers. I have read many novels in my time, but \\"Mortal Fear\\" found its way onto the top 10 list of my all time favorite books. <br /> <br /> <br />	2004-11-20
US	20324674	R2CUJ0VQHKHK13	0553582925	199284738	Tick Tock	Books	5	60	63	N	N	Tick Tock = One of Koontz's best	The story centers around a Vietnamese author named Tommy Phan who writes detective novels. One night, Tommy receives a strange package on his porch. When he opens it, Tommy discovers that it is a rag doll. Unfortunately, things start to become deadly serious rather quickly. There is an evil demon inside the doll that breaks out and is obsessed with killing Tommy. Not only is the demon a deadly one, but it is also highly intelligent as well. It managed to leave Tommy a note on his computer that comprised of &quot;The deadline is dawn. Tick tock... Tick tock&quot;. Now Tommy not only has to survive the night without being killed, but he also has to solve the mystery of who sent the demon to him and why they want him dead. <br />  <br /> Over the years I have read most of Koontz's books. However, Tick Tock was always a book that I put off reading. The premise sounded like a rip off of the film &quot;Child's Play&quot;, and I had heard some bad feedback on the book from certain people who had read the book. I finally decided to put my skepticism aside, and give Tick Tock a chance. I am so glad that I did, because it is seriously one of the best books that I have read in awhile, and that is just not limiting the criteria to Dean Koontz novels either. I am talking overall, and I read a lot of books. The book manages to hook you in from the first page and keeps you there until the very end. The suspense that this book brings is so intense, that it is almost unreal.  <br />  <br /> However, although the demon may be scary and the suspense is almost overwhelming at times, the book's real appeal comes from Koontz's character development. Tommy Phan is one of my favorite Koontz characters. Koontz portrays Tommy as a man who is constantly fighting against his heritage to become more American, and it is his battle against those beliefs that makes his war with the demon harder. Koontz also manages to create one of the best female leads he has ever written as well. Along the way,Tommy meets and eventually falls for a woman named Deliverance Payne who joins him in the fight against the demon no questions asked. Del's different philosophies on life, her twisted sense of humor, and her wild past make Del an extremely interesting and likeable character. The relationship that develops between Del and Tommy is one of Koontz's more enjoyable ones. It truly brings a new meaning to the phrase &quot;opposites attract&quot;. <br />  <br /> Overall, Tick Tock is now one of my favorite Koontz books. This book showcases Koontz's character development at its best, and supplies a perfect mixture of horror, suspense, humor, and romance.	2004-07-21
US	20324674	R2MDVMIMM2G1FV	0553582941	191153164	Sole Survivor	Books	5	3	3	N	N	WOW !! - One of Koontz's best	The story focuses on a man named Joe Carpenter who lost his wife and two daughters in a plane crash. A year after the crash, Joe has quit his job as a crime reporter for the Los Angeles Post, and done nothing with his life except sit around and mourn the loss of his family. One day Joe pays a visit to the graves of his wife and daughters only to discover a strange women taking pictures of their graves. When Joe apporaches her, the woman claims to be the sole survivor of the crash that killed Joe's family. Before, Joe can find out who she is or what is going on, he is forced to flee the scene when mysterious men begin shooting at the woman, who also manages to get away. Joe becomes convinced that the crash that killed his family was anything but ordinary, and sets out to discover who the woman is, and how she could have survived. Unfortunately, things only get worse for Joe when he begins to realize that he has stumbled into a conspiracy regarding the crash, and that the people involved are willing to kill to keep their secrets safe.<br />I have been a fan of Dean Koontz's work for many years now. While I usually enjoy most of his books, there are some that are better than others. Sole Survivor was a book that I always put off reading, because it has always received mixed reviews. I finally decided to put my doubts aside and read the book. After I finished with Sole Survivor, I wanted to start over and immediately read the book again, because I did not want it to end. This may be one of the best books Koontz has ever written. Koontz manages to get you hooked into the story right away, because he does a great job at establishing the hero of the story Joe Carpenter and what he is going through. Then when you throw a woman who survived a crash that supposedly left no survivors into the mix, the story only gets better. But what really makes the story exciting and hard to put down, is the fact that Joe soon discovers that the plane crash was no accident, and that there isa conspiracy surrounding it. Joe is forced to fight for his life and put his reporter skills to the test to find out what is going on. The best thing about Sole Survivor is that Koontz manages to combine elements of a conspiracy story to add paranoia, and elements of a chase novel that keeps you on the edge of your seat.<br />Overall, this has to be one of Koontz's best books. Sole Survivor showcases Koontz's character development at its best and an exciting and suspenseful story that makes the book impossible to put down once you have started. I think that this book would even be enjoyable for those who do not like to read. From beginning to end, it almost feels like you are watching a movie play out. Hopefully a movie of Sole Survivor will be made one day, because this is the perfect type of story to be brought to the big screen.	2004-07-02
US	20324674	R85UX50BOG21Z	0345441036	237509158	Black House	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Very satisfying sequel to &quot;The Talisman&quot;...	&quot;Black House&quot; is the long awaited sequel to Stephen King's and Peter Straub's &quot;The Talisman&quot;. The story takes place many years later, when Jack Sawyer is a man and remembers nothing that happened to him when he was 13. He is a retired police officer, and he has moved to Coule County in French Landing, Wisconsin to relax and enjoy himself. Unfortunately, a series of murders soon force him to come out of retirement. To make things worse, the murders are somehow connected to Jack's past that he has no memory of. Speedy Parker must come into Jack's life once again and help him remember his past, so that Jack can stop the killer.<br />At first I really had my doubts about this book. The first 75 pages are just introducing the characters of Coule County in French Landing, Wisconsin. It moves very slowly. Also, the narrative that King and Straub use, can be slightly confusing. They actually put the reader in the story. However, after it gets past the speedbumb in the beginning, it is almost as good as The Talisman. I rarely come across a sequel that lives up to the first novel, but &quot;Black House&quot; is very worthy and a highly enjoyable read. Once again King and Straub use great character development to make all of their characters enjoyable. The general consensus on &quot;Black House&quot;, is that a lot of people did not like the book. The main complaint that people have, is that it did not involve The Territories enough. I think that this makes perfect sense however. They bring the reader back into The Territories slowly because he is a grown man now. The Territories were focused on a lot in &quot;The Talisman&quot; because of Jack discovering them for the first time, and more importantly because he was a boy. Stephen King and Peter Straub don't focus on the Territories as much, because Jack is not 13 anymore. I also liked how the story has Jack's quest into the Territories, be important to everyone, and not just him personally. This puts the story on a much grander scale. <br />As much as I liked the book however, I had two complaints. The first, was that elements from The Dark Tower books were used in the story. I have never read any of the Dark Tower novels, and I found that aspect of the story to be a tad bit confusing. The second was that Straub and King actually warn the reader that the last 20 pages of the story, are dissapointing. I would have liked it better , if they would have just let it flow, instead of putting up a warning sign. <br />&quot;Black House&quot; does have it flaws. In my opinion however, it is a very worthy sequel, and I highly enjoyed it. If you are willing to accept that &quot;Black House&quot; is a seperate story and not a direct continuation, then you will appreciate the story very much. The good news is that Stephen King and Peter Straub left the story open for another sequel, and they are talking about making the Jack Sawyer saga into a trilogy!!	2004-03-17
US	20324674	R1YK0UXGNAXSHN	067102423X	85988614	Bag of Bones	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Very impressive.. The best of King's later work	Stephen King's &quot; Bag of Bones&quot; revolves around best selling author Mike Noonan. Mike's wife dies tragically, and four years later Mike is still not able to accept the loss. Mike suddenly develops writer's block, and is plagued by terrifying nightmares about his vacation home that he refers to as &quot;Sara Laughs&quot;. Determined to face his nightmares, he forces himself to return to the lakeside getaway. Mike soon discovers that the town is under the influence of the powerful millionaire Max Devore. Max has become obsessed with getting custody of his three-year-old granddaughter Kyra, to intentionally take her away from his ex-daughter in law Mattie. As Mike is drawn into Mattie's and Kyra's struggle, as he falls in love with both of them, he is also drawn into the mystery of Sara Laughs. His home has become the new site of terrifying visitations. Now Mike is determined to find out what evil forces he has unleashed by returning, and what they want with him. <br />Before reading this book, I figured that King's best work was behind him. However, I was very impressed, and I feel that &quot;Bag of Bones&quot; deserves a spot on King's top 10 list. Usually when you have a story that is split between two different aspects, you find yourself choosing one side over the other. In &quot;Bag of Bones&quot;, both sides of the story - Max saving Mattie and Kyra and Max dealing with the ghost, are equally enjoyable, and it is impossible to choose between the two. I am also a huge fan of books that are written in a first person narative, and King was brilliant in that aspect. You really feel like you are listening to Mike Noonan and not just a character that King has created. King also created very realistic dialogue that will make you feel like you are getting to know the characters personally. Mike is my favorite character because of all the different things that he must deal with. He is still grieving the loss of his wife, dealing with terrifying visitations from aghost, and fighting the town's most powerful man to defend Mattie and Kyra. Watching Mike fall in love with them is very touching, and the father/daughter relationship that develops between Kyra and Mike is great. Max Devore is an evil and dispicable villan that adds major suspense to the story. The combination of Max's actions and the ghost, will give you the creeps. <br />&quot;Bag of Bones&quot; combines a terrifying ghost story, with an emotional and touching story of love and redemption. King's brilliant use of terror and emotion, will make this book an instant favorite of yours. Bag of Bones shows that King still has what it takes to be considered the master of horror.	2004-03-17
US	20324674	R2DX4GLB3J4PSM	0345444884	122553244	The Talisman	Books	5	0	1	N	N	One of my all time favorite books...	Jack Sawyer is a thirteen year old boy who grew up dreaming of a magic place far away, but always wrote if off as make believe. Jack and his mother move to a beach front communnity on the east coast. This is where Jack meets a man named Speedy Parker. He tells Jack about the magic realm of the Territories, and that the dreams Jack has been having all his life are real. Speedy informs Jack that his mom is dying, and that he has to go into the Territories to get the only thing that can save her life - the Talisman! Unfortunately, Jack also has the fate of the Territories resting on his shoulders. The queen of the Territories is dying as well, and can only be saved by a human that manages to obtain the Talisman. Speedy warns Jack that monsters, demons, and people from both his own world and the Territories, will stop at nothing to make sure that Jack never gets his hands on the Talisman. Join Jack on his quest in this amazing story, as he faces numerous challenges and obstacles!! <br />The Talisman in my opinion, is Stephen King's best book. The fact that Peter Straub was also involved, only made the book even better. The story unfolds like a modern day Lord of the Rings. King and Straub did such an amazing job with the description of the Territories and all of the evil that is encompased within. I also love the fact that Jack can travel in and out of the Territories at will. This also means that creatures from the Territories can travel into the real world, which means that he is never safe. The characters are incredibly written and they are one of the big reasons that the book is so appealing to readers. There are too many to mention, so I will cover only my personal favorites. Jack Sawyer is the best heroine that I have ever encountered in a novel. The main reason is due to the fact that he is only 13. But despite his age, he behaves like a man, never gives up, and shows incredible courage and determination. A werewolf from the Territories named Wolf, acts as Jack'sguardian and his traveling companion. He is my favorite character of the novel, because of his struggle to adapt to Earth, and his constant battle with his animal instincts and urges to kill. The story's two main villans - Morgan Sloat, and Sunlight Gardner, are very menacing and dispicable. They add major suspense to the story. <br />The Talisman does not receive the credit that it deserves. Many of King's popular novels, do not even come close. When reading The Talisman, you will laugh, you will cry, and the suspense will keep you on the edge of your seat. This amazing adventure will have you hooked from the first page, and I guarantee that you will not want to put it down!	2004-03-17
US	20324674	RZ4E10DMF2FKT	0451169530	825352881	The Stand: Expanded Edition: For the First Time Complete and Uncut (Signet)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Outstanding end of the world novel... 4 1/2 stars	&quot;The Stand&quot; has become one of Stephen King's most popular novels, and is known as one of the greatest end of the world novels ever written. I put off reading &quot;The Stand&quot; up until recently, because of all the acclaim that it has received. When a book is hyped up that much, it usually fails to meet my expectations. Not to mention the fact that the book is over 1100 pages long, and has a story that spans over the entire U.S. That means a lot of time and patience has to be put into keeping track of all the different characters and other aspects of the story. I am so glad that I finally gave this book a chance, and I was amazed that I was actually begging for more after the story had ended. The story is over 1100 pages, but it moves incredibly fast. The thing that appealed to me the most about this book, was that the story lets perfect strangers across America gravitate towards one another. What the characters have to overcome is amazing. Not only do they have to survive a killer virus, and society as they know it breaking down, but also something more evil then they ever could've imagined. Another aspect of the book I found appealing was the focus on religion. Anytime you have an end of the world novel seem like a battle between God and the Devil, it is often much more appealing. <br />Another reason to read &quot;The Stand&quot; is to witness King's character development at its best, due to the fact that this book dealt with many likeable characters. Randal Flagg is obviously the story's best one. He is the source of the greater evil, and is known as the &quot;Walkin Dude&quot;. He posses unimaginable powers and is basically the Devil himself. Obviously when you have a character like Randall Flagg, people are going to be seduced by the evil that such a character offers. The &quot;bad guys&quot; are my favorite characters in the book, because King puts a lot more energy into them, than he does the heroes of the story. The characters on Flagg's team are well developed villans, that really stand out and make an impact on the story. God's team is led an extremely old negro woman named Mother Abagail. She is the driving force for the survivors, and the reason that all the survivors seem to find each other. King was brilliant with her, because he portrays her as God's weapon against the Devil. All of the characters that come together to form the society of survivors are well written, likeable, and posess courage and determination that is extremely inspiring. It is very hard to choose a favorite character when reading this book! <br />&quot;The Stand&quot; is an epic masterpiece that offers rich character development, an intriguing end of the world story, the fight of good against evil, and the overall strength of the human condition. This is definately one of King's best novels.	2004-03-17
US	20324674	R22ASHNW6U9JRM	0451169514	380266608	It	Books	5	0	2	N	N	IT = A Masterpiece!!!	Something is killing the children in Dairy, Maine. To librarian Mike Hanlon this is nothing new. When he was a kid , he belonged to a group of kids called the &quot;Loser's Club&quot; who managed to come together to fight against the evil of Derry known only as &quot;IT&quot;. All of them made a promise that if &quot;IT&quot; ever returned, that they would come back and finish the fight. The only problem is that Mike is the only one that remained in Dairy and remembers anything that happened. The rest of the &quot;Loser's Club&quot; has been gone from Dairy for quite some time. Bill is a succesful writer. Richie is a popular stand up comic and radio disc jockey. Ben is no longer overweight and is the most sought after architect in the country. Beverly runs her own fashion design company. Eddie owns a successful limo company that drives all the stars. Stan is a highly sucessful accountant. Now Mike must remind them all of the promise they once made. The former friends must leave their succesful lives behind, and come back to Dairy to put a stop to &quot;IT&quot;, once and for all. <br />&quot;IT&quot; is not only one of King's best books, but it is also one of the best books that I have ever read. The unending amout of horror and suspense is incredible. The story itself is briliantly written and goes back and forth between when the characters were all kids, and the present time when they fight &quot;IT&quot; as adults. The parts of the story when they are kids, are my favorite because it shows that true friendship can overcome even the biggest of odds. The parts of the story where they come together as adults are good as well. The strangers that they are now, must become the friends they once were. The monster itself refered to as &quot;IT&quot; is the best part of the book. &quot;IT&quot; is a creature that changes into the worst fear of the child. The characters are all spectacular. All of the members of the &quot; Loser's Club&quot; posses different strengths andaspects of their personalities that you will like. Aside from &quot; IT&quot;, the bully Henry Bowers is the other villan. He is a great character. When the kids aren't fighting &quot;IT&quot;, they are fighting Henry and his gang. Even though Henry is only 12, he acts like a grown psychopath. Sometimes Henry can be even more terrifying than &quot; IT&quot; itself! The book also takes a controversial look at racism in the 1950's too. <br />The one word of advice that I can give with this book, is don't let the length of it scare you. Even though it is almost 1100 pages, it reads at an increadibly fast rate. The story is so good that you want there to be more after it's over! The wonderful friendship between the characters, the suspense and terror, and the well written story make &quot;IT&quot; a truly memorable classic from the master of horror.	2004-03-17
US	20324674	R2QIWTTIHY1LCT	0671041789	867268465	The Green Mile	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Excellent prison story....	Stephen King's &quot;The Green Mile&quot; focuses on a man named John Coffey. He is a giant of a man that is convicted of murder, and sentenced to die in the electric chair at Cold Mountain Penitentairy's death row called the Green Mile. The Green Mile is run by Paul Edgecomb. John acts unlike any murderer that Paul has ever seen, and has supernatural powers that brings a sense of spirit and humanity to his guards and fellow inmates. How can a man like that be guilty of such a horrible crime? That is the question that drives Paul to search for the truth behind what really happened. Once Paul finds the answers that he is looking for however, it forces him to make the hardest decision of his life. <br />Most of the books that I have read by King have been from his older work. That is why I had my doubts about this book. However, after I finished reading &quot;The Green Mile&quot;, I was blown away at how good it turned out to be. I am a huge fan of books that are written in a first person narative. King does an amazing job at making himself sound like a completely different person. The story of the Green Mile, is Paul Edgecomb's memoir of what happened. When the story is not focusing on the Mile, we also get to hear about Paul's current life in the nursing home that he is staying at. This part of the story is almost as entertaining. I was also very impressed at how King accurately portrayed the Depression era in this book. This is effectively illustrated by Paul and his crew forcing themselves to keep their jobs, despite everything that makes them want to quit. <br />Another reason to read &quot;The Green Mile&quot; is to see King's excellent character development. Paul Edgecomb is my favorite. The fact that he has seen nothing but guilty men, and is able to put his prejudices aside to help John is very commendable. John Coffey is emotional, and amusing because of his simple mind and naive attitude. The dialogue King creates for Coffey is great. Percy Whitmore is a new guard that is transfered in due to political connections. He is the kind of villan that you love to hate. Percy is sadistic, cocky, weak, and a whiner. Wild Bill Wharton is very cool. He is a mentally unstable inmate who takes pleasure in making other people miserable. The stuff he does will shock you and disgust you. But some of the things he does will also make you laugh as well. Edward Delacroix is a cajun prisoner who adopts an intelligent mouse that he nicknames &quot;Mr. Jingles&quot;. The relationship between Edward and Mr. Jingles is one of the best aspects of the book, because of the outstanding dialogue King creates for Delacroix. <br />The Green Mile is a great book. The story is emotional, the first person narative is excellent, all of the characters are amazing, and you get a realistic look at the Depression era. You are deffinately in for a treat with the Green Mile.	2004-03-17
US	20324674	R2XXMOLE7KU3HB	0425104346	485108045	Darkfall	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Extremely Underrated	Darkfall focuses on two main characters. The first is a man from Jamaica named Baba Lavelle. Lavelle has come to New York city to gain revenge on a mafia family who was responsible for the death of his brother. Lavelle is a Bocur, which means that he specializes in Voodo involving the black arts. He uses his powers to call upon Gremlin type mosters that travel through the ventilation systems. They travel in packs, and can get into rooms hidden behind lock doors. Four corpses have popped up and they are all high ranking officials in the mafia family. This is where the second character of the story enters. Jack Dawson is a cop who has been working the case. All four bodies appear to have been bitten to death, and they were all behind locked doors. Jack and his partner Amy can not figure out what is killing these men, or how it is being done. Just when things couldn't get any worse, Jack gets a threatening phone call from Lavelle telling him to back off the case. When Jack refuses, Lavelle threatens Jack's children. Now it is up to Jack to find Lavelle and stop him before anyone else winds up dead.<br />I have been a fan of Dean Koontz for years, and have read the majority of his books. However, Darkfall was always one that I held off on due to the reputation that it has gotten. A lot of people that have read Darkfall have called it one of Koontz's weaker books. In my opinion, this book has gotten a bad rap and is extremely underrated. The book drags you in from page one and keeps you there until the very end. The amount of terror and suspense this book brings is unreal. Koontz's character development is at the top of its game in this book. Jack Dawson is a very likeable hero, and you will find yourself rooting from him from the very beginning. He not only has to deal with Lavelle, but also his growing feelings for his partner Amy and the complicated relationship that is developing between them. Koontz does a great job developing the romance between Amy and Jack because nothing is cut and dry in their relationship. Lavelle is an amazing villan, and he will give you the creeps. Voodo has always been a terrifying subject, and Koontz creatively weaves it into the story. Watching Lavelle wreak havock on the city is scary and suspenseful. The scariest part of the story is the monsters themselves. Imagine Gremlins going evil.<br />Overall, this is one of the best books that Dean Koontz has ever written. Few of his books have brought the kind of terror and suspense that Darkfall does. After I finished reading Darkfall, I kept asking myself why people do not like this book. It packs a scary and suspenseful story with outstanding characters. Ignore this book's reputation and give it a shot.	2004-03-17
US	20324674	R2MS6LPWA3SHMB	0451172817	742574412	Needful Things: The Last Castle Rock Story	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Fantastic read until the end. 4 1/2 stars...	Stephen King's \\"Needful Things\\" takes place in the town of Castle Rock, Maine. A new store has opened up that is run by a man named Leland Gaunt. He specializes in carrying everything and anything that you could ever want. The only problem, is that each person's \\"needful thing\\" comes at one HELL of a price, that could end costing the person their soul. <br />Stephen King is not my favorite author, but I have read enough of his books to know that some are better than others. To this day, I still feel that Needful Things is one of his best books. The idea behind the story is what really makes this book fun to read. The idea that the Devil himself could come to a town and tempt the town members with their deepest desires is very appealing. The best thing, is that the characters do it all to themselves, because everything is based on free will. All the Devil does is show the characters the way, and convince them to pull a \\"harmless little prank\\" on members of the town. The story is extremely well written and moves at a very fast pace. I usually read a 400 -500 page book in 2 -3 days. That is how long it took me to read Needful Things. The 731 pages just seem to fly by, because King manages to create a story that involves you in the lives of each of the characters. As much as I would love to give this book 5 stars, I cannot because of the ending. You are left on the edge of your seat waiting for the end of the book to come, only to be left hanging by an ending that leaves things up in the air. This is the type of story that deserves a clear, cut ending. <br />I will say this however. King's character development is at its all time best in this book. The reason being obviously because he created a whole town. Every character introduced is enjoyable. The main players are the Devil Leland Gaunt who is King's best villan ever, Sheriff Alan Pangborn who is the hero of the story, Alan's girlfriend Polly Chalmers who suffers from arthritis, Nettie Cobb and Wilma Jerzyck who spend thier time bickering and fighting, and Danforth \\"Buster\\" Keaton who is the other main villan.<br />Needful Things is filled with comedy, romance, suspense, and overall terror. The story is well written and appealing, the characters are all great, and by the end of the story you feel like you have gotten to know a lot of them. With only one major flaw, the book is an overall treat to read.	2004-03-17
US	20324674	R310TBNUIHMOOG	074343627X	241269653	Dreamcatcher	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Extremely Underrated!! One of King's best...	King spins an amazing tale that involves four childhood friends- Henry, Pete, Beaver, and Jonsey, who came together to save a boy with down syndome named Duddits, from getting beat up by local bullies. Ever since that time in their lives, they have been connected by the uncanny psychic powers that they gained in return, which they all refer to as &quot;seeing the line&quot;. As the years pass, they are slowly split apart by their own problems, but always manage to come together once a year for their annual huting trip in the Maine woods. At first, the trip seemed like any other that they had taken for years. Unfortunately, things in their lives would change forver, when they are snowed in by an unexpected blizzard, and an injured man named Richard McCarthy stumbles into their camp rambling about lights in the sky and being scared out of his mind... <br />Stephen King is not my favorite author, but I have read enough of his books to realize that some are better than others. Dreamcatcher is one of his best books, and I am very suprised at the amount of people that disliked this book. Dreamcatcher reads at an incredibly fast pace. The book is almost 900 pages long, and I read it in two days. I literally could not put it down. King combines a wonderful coming of age story, with a terrifying alien invasion. If I had to describe this book in one line, it would be &quot;IT&quot; meets &quot;Invasion of the Body Snatchers&quot;. The story unfolds brilliantly. The focus of the story keeps switching back and forth between the four friends' childhood with Duddits, and the current situation that they are in. This involves the alien invasion, and an insane Army Colonel named Abraham Kurtz whose only mission is to destroy the aliens, and take everyone down with him. King uses amazing character development and outstanding dialogue. As the story unfolds, you come to like to each character equally. But the reason the book really succeeds, is that the main characters are not immune from danger. You see the characters you have come to love actually going through pain, torment, and mental anguish. This provides for unbelieveable suspense, because no one is safe. Due to outstanding dialougue, the book can also be quite funny at times as well, which makes the story enjoyable overall. <br />&quot;Dreamcatcher&quot; is one of the best books that I have ever read. The characters, suspense, humor, and overall terror that this book brings will amaze you. This remains one of the only books that I wanted to start reading again immediately after I finished.	2004-03-17
US	20324674	R2MP4PUCIXVULT	0553802496	471304969	Odd Thomas	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Koontz's latest masterpiece...	The story revolves around a 20 year old man named Odd Thomas who is a short order cook living in a small California town. Odd has the ability to see and communicate with dead people. He has kept this a secret from nearly everyone in town with the acception of his girlfriend and the chief of police who Odd helps with solving crimes every now and then. Odd also sees evil spirits which he refers to as &quot;Bodachs&quot; which are attracted to pain and suffering. Their presence usually signifies up coming violence. One day at work, Odd notices a man who he refers to as the &quot;Fungus Man&quot; that is attracting a lot of Bodachs. Wanting to find out more about the man, Odd breaks into his house, and discovers that the Fungus Man has an obsession with serial killers. This leads Odd to believe that the man will commit an unspeakable act of violence soon, and now it is up to Odd to discover what that might be, and to stop the Fungus Man before it is too late.<br />Odd Thomas is Koontz's latest novel. It is also one of the best he has ever written. I was literally blown away at how great this book turned out to be. The book is extremely suspenseful because of the fact that the inevitable is coming, and only Odd can stop the man. However, since Odd has no idea what the man will do, he also has to figure out where and when the Fungus Man will strike. The ending to the story is completely unpredictable and extremely satisfying. I also love books that are told in a first person narrative because it gives the book more of a personal feel, and the story is narrated by Odd himself. Koontz does an amazing job at transforming himself into Odd Thomas. Koontz's character development is so good, that you feel like you are reading a first hand account of an actual event, and not just some character that Koontz made up. Odd Thomas is probably the best character Koontz has created since Chris Snow. Odd posseses fierce determination and it is extremely entertaining watching Odd interactwith dead people. Now due to the premise of this book, people are probably going to assume that it is a rip off the film &quot;Sixth Sense&quot;. However, even though Odd can communicate with the dead, it is by no means a rip off, and the story is actually a lot more suspenseful.<br />Koontz has been delivering outstanding books for a while now, and people begin to worry that an author may run out of ideas or lose their overall touch. After reading Koontz's two latest books &quot;The Face&quot; and &quot;Odd Thomas&quot; Koontz seems to be getting better. Overall, Odd Thomas is a great book and one of Koontz's best. The story is filled with suspense, great characters, a wonderful first hand narrative, and an outstanding ending. If you are a fan of Dean Koontz, or if you are looking for a scary and suspenseful book, I highly recommend you give Odd Thomas a shot.	2004-03-16
US	20324674	R1K9MXBVPUJHGD	0553802488	607743484	The Face	Books	5	17	19	N	N	An amazing book from Dean Koontz	The story centers around two key characters. The first is an ex-cop named Ethan Truman. He is now the chief of security for one of the most famous actors in the world today Charles \\"The Face\\" Manhiem. As of late, The Face has been receiving packages that point towards his death, filled with strange and unusual items. Ethan takes it upon himself to catch the person responsible. However, Ethan's life gets even more complicated when he begins to see an old friend walking around that is supposed to be dead, and the fact that his friend's body dissapeared from the morgue makes things even stranger. Now Ethan must solve two mysteries - the identity of the person who wants The Face dead, and if his friend is really alive or not. The other main character of the story is The Face's son Aelfric Manhiem. Ten year old Fric begins to receive strange phone calls on his private line telling him that he needs to find a place to hide because something evil is coming. At first, Fric things that it is a prank. However, as time goes on, the mysterious caller begins to describe what has Fric has done during the day, what different rooms of the house look like, etc.. As Fric begins to prepare for this mysterious evil force, Ethan becomes wrapped up in his own problems which puts both Ethan and Fric in danger of being victims of events that are somehow connected.<br />This book seriously impressed me. I have been a fan of Dean Koontz for many years, and I have read the majority of his books. That is why I had my doubts about this one. When an author produces so many fantastic books, you begin to wonder if it is only a matter of time before they run out of ideas, and The Face is one of Koontz's latest novels. As soon as I began reading this book, my doubts were put to rest. The book is extremely well written, and very suspenseful. It combines aspects of a mystery novel, with those of a chase novel. This makes the book very interesting, and will keep you glued to the pages. The story is somewhat complex though, because it is told from three different points of view - what's going on with Ethan, what's going on with Fric, and the killer who is behind the attack on The Face. However, Koontz's character development is so great in this book, that you will become equally captivated reading about each character. The personalities of Ethan, Fric, and the killer are very well established which makes you appreciate them all.<br />Overall, The Face is one of the best Dean Koontz books I have ever read. The book offers likeable and well developed characters, the perfect combination of a mystery and chase novel, and an unpredictable and satisfying ending. If you are a fan of Dean Koontz you should definately check this book out.	2004-03-16
US	20324674	R20G3ORIVGMB7L	0553582747	255570129	From the Corner of His Eye	Books	5	1	2	N	N	I loved this book...	Bartholomew Lampton is born with the most beautiful eyes that anyone has ever seen. Unfortunately, it is also a day of tragedy and terror that will mark his family forever. On this same day, a man named Junior Cain commits his first act of murder by killing his fiance, and making it look like an accident. A cop named Thomas Vanadium is the only one who believes Junior is guilty, and sets out to proove it. Shortly after, Junior becomes convinced that he has a mortal enemy named Bartholomew. Junior begins to embark on a relentless search that will consume his whole life, and he now has the taste for murder to stop anyone who gets in his way. A girl named Angel is also born from a brutal rape, and her destiny is mysteriously linked to Bart and the man who stalks him. At the age of three, Bart gets cancer in his eyes, and is blinded when they are removed. As he deals with being blind, he proves to be a child prodigy with high intelligence. At age thirteen Bart regains his sight. How he regains it, and why he regains it, leads us on a journey filled with love, suspense, and terror.<br />From the Corner of His Eye is a suspenseful and terrifying chase novel  The story itself is written brilliantly. We follow the story through two different perspectives. One being the life of Bartholomew and the other following the killer Junior Cain. Koontz does an amazing job at developing both sides of the story equally. The other reason the story is great overall, is because it scans over the course of many years. Junior's hunt for Bart is one that unfolds slowly, which really builds suspense. I cannot get enough of Koontz's character development. Bart is probably one of Koontz's most memorable characters because of everything he is forced to go through. Koontz's description really puts that into perspective. The reason Bart is so likeable is because despite the fact that he has a very hard life to lead, he keeps an upbeat attitude. His intelligence is amazing as well. Junior Cain is the perfect villan. He is cold, calculating, and slowly goes out of his mind. His obsession of finding Bart really makes him menacing. Thomas Vanadium is my favorite character. His determination to take Junior down is amazing, and I love the fact that he never gives up and spends years trying to do it. He is intelligent, funny, and is a great magician. He uses his magic skills to mess with Junior's head. Angel is a nice character as well, and you will enjoy the bond that she eventually forms with Bart.<br />Overall, I loved this book and I still feel that it is one of Koontz's best. Some people have crticized this book for being too long and drawn out. As you can see from this website, the overall rating for this book is not even at 4 stars. However, From the Corner of His Eye is a suspenseful and action packed chase novel filled with great characters and a satisfying ending. If you are a fan of Dean Koontz, you should definately give this book a shot.	2004-03-15
US	20324674	R2L68V7UDQVXU5	0425118703	781279187	Midnight	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Another great book from Dean Koontz...	Dean Koontz's &quot;Midnight&quot; takes place in the town of Moonlight Cove, CA. The people of Moonlight Cove, CA are changing. Some are losing their emotions, while others are giving into their wildest fantasies and urges. The few people that have not yet changed are either murdered at night, or forced to join against their wills. Sam Booker is a skeptical FBI agent who has been sent into Moonlight Cove to investigate the amount of unnatural deaths and other strange things that are going on. Now Sam, with the help of three other unlikely survivors confront the darkest realms of human nature.<br />If I had to describe &quot;Midnight&quot; in one sentence, I would say that it is a mix between Koontz's other novel &quot;Fear Nothing&quot; and the film &quot;The Island of Dr Moreau&quot;. The story is terrifying, and extremely well written. It involves the entire town against itself, with the heroes of the story caught in the middle. The townspeople in &quot;Midnight&quot; are extremely evil, because they give into their animal instincts. The creatures that some of the townspeople change into, are very violent. &quot;Midnight&quot; also offers a sense of paranoia because the story involves the entire town. Literally anyone could be an enemy. I love books that have conspiracies and make you ask the questions - What are they hiding? and Why are they doing it?<br />Koontz's character development is great in this book. The story's four unlikely heroes are lead by FBI agent Sam Booker. He is originally brought in to investigate all of the strange things going on. Sam figures that there must be a logical explanation for everything. However, as the story unfolds, he is forced to step outside his normal way of thinking in order to survive. The rest of the group includes an independent film maker named Tessa Lockland who is town investigating the strange death of her sister, a 10 year old girl named Chrissie who escaped from her parents that went crazy, and a man in a wheelchair named Harry Talbot who spies on the townspeople from his bedroom window. Thomas Shaddack may be one of Koontz's best villans ever. He is rich, powerful, and completely out of his mind. Koontz does a good job developing him because the reasons behind Tom's actions are hidden until the very end. As the story unfolds, we slowly learn why he is changing the town. It is almost as if he is a puppeteer, and the people of Moonlight Cove are his puppets.<br />Overall, Midnight really impressed me. The creatures are violent, the people in Moonlight Cove are sadistic, the heroes are inspiring, the main villan is one of Koontz's best, and the book creates a giant conspiracy because no one in the town can be trusted. This book's oustanding mix of horror, suspense, and paranoia makes it a treat to read.hair named Harry Talbot who spies on the townspeople from his bedroom window. Thomas Shaddack may be one of Koontz's best villans ever. He is rich, powerful, and completely out of his mind. Koontz does a good job developing him because the reasons behind Tom's actions are hidden until the very end. As the story unfolds, we slowly learn why he is changing the town. It is almost as if he is a puppeteer, and the people of Moonlight Cove are his puppets. <br />Overall, Midnight really impressed me. The creatures are violent, the people in Moonlight Cove are sadistic, the heroes are inspiring, the main villan is one of Koontz's best, and the book creates a giant conspiracy because no one in the town can be trusted. This book's oustanding mix of horror, suspense, and paranoia makes it a treat to read.	2004-03-15
US	20324674	RJAISB92W7K7O	0451205421	835415534	The Door to December	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Great read up until the end...	&quot;The Door to December&quot; revolves around a girl named Melanie. She was kidnapped by her dad when she was three. For six years she is subjected to tons of abuse and numerous amounts of torture. Six years later, Melanie's mother Laura receives a call from the police telling her that they have found three dead bodies, and one of them is her ex husband. Frantic to know what has happened to her daughter, she rushes over. Dan Haldaine is the detective that is in charge of the investigation. He and Laura go through the house and come upon a room with a sensory deprivation chamber, an electric chair, and tons of other torture devices. The one thing they don't find is Melanie. Later that night , she is found wandering the streets with a blank look in her eyes. She is now catatonic and borderline autistic. Laura, Dan Haldaine, and a bodyguard named Earl team up to find the truth behind Melanie's past. Along the way they incounter an invisible and unstoppable creature that is responsible for killing anyone associated with Melanie and her past. The key to unlocking the past lies within the unknown Door to December. <br />The Door to December is a thrilling book that offers great characters ,the controversial subject of child abuse, and overall terror. As good as this book is, I must warn you that it does contain some disturbing scenes. At points, I found myself cringing. The characters are the best thing about the book. Dan Haldaine is one of Koontz's best heroes. He is determined, intelligent, and shows undying love towards Laura and Melanie. Laura is great. She is willing to do whatever it takes to keep her daughter safe. But Laura is also a child psychologist. The scenes when she is trying to unlock her daughter's mind are incredible. Earl adds a nice touch as the bodyguard that helps them out. The book does have a few flaws though. The story becomes slightly predictable, and the ending leaves things up in the air. However the rest of the book makes up for it. <br />Door to December is a terrifying psychological thriller that will shock you, captivate you, and amaze you. Now the story may be somewhat predictable and offer an ending that is uncertain. However, the book is still very enjoyable despite the few flaws that it does have. If you are a fan of Dean Koontz, I highly recommend that you pick this book up.	2004-03-15
US	20324674	R1XFRLSFCBHLZI	0425132951	117838793	The House of Thunder	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Mind bending thriller	A woman named Susan Thorton wakes up in a hospital. Her entire body feels numb, and she can barely move. To make matters worse, she has no memory of the accident that brought her to the hospital, or even her own name. As she slowly begins to regain her memory, Susan notices four shadowy figues from her past that are supposed to be dead, and look exactly the same age they did thirteen years prior. To make matters even worse, there are secrets trapped within Susan's mind that these four men do not want Susan to uncover.<br />The House of Thunder is a very well written psychological thriller. This book drags you in from page one and keeps you there with unending suspense and building paranoia. As Susan regain her memory, she keeps seeing more and more things related to her past, and becomes convinced that everyone around her from her doctor and nurses to the ordalies are in on it. Due to Susan's condition, no one believes her. As time passes, the reader is never sure what to believe or what characters to trust because of the fact that Susan might be telling the truth. This book really keeps you on the edge of your seat.<br />Overall, The House of Thunder is one of the best psychological thrillers I have ever read. The book is filled with outstanding characters, tons of paranoia and suspense, and an unpredictable ending. If you are a fan of Dean Koontz, or love conspiracy theory type stories, I highly recommend this book.	2004-03-15
US	20324674	R2XRQV7SZKUDQX	0425098648	469342893	Night Chills	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Koontz's most darkest book...	Night Chills is set in the town of Black River. A man named Oldgen Salsbury has developed very effective mind control techniques that are delivered through subliminal advertising. The people of Black River have been exposed to the advertisements for months now, and Oldgen decides that it is time to experiment on the townspeople. By uttering the phrase \\"I am the key\\", the mind is unlocked and open to suggestion. This leaves anyone in town vulnerable. The people of Black River begin to commit violent and random acts of rape and murder, and have no memory of what happened afterwards. To make things even worse, the townspeople begin to suffer from flu like symptoms that are refered to as night chills. A man named Paul Annendale has been spending his summer vacations in Black River for the last seven years with his two children Mark and Rya. Since they are now the only ones in town who were not exposed to the subliminal messages, it is up to Paul to discover the truth and put a stop to Oldgen.<br />Night Chills is without a doubt the darkest and most disturbing book that Koontz has ever written. The subject of subliminal advertising and mind control is a frightening one, because it could happen to anyone in real life. Koontz's description of the killings and sexual acts in this book is so realistic, that it will literally give you the creeps. Some scenes in this book disturbed me very deeply and it takes a lot to make me that upset. However, the book is so terrifying and disturbing that it is impossible to put down. You begin to become intrigued and you begin to anticipate what Oldgen will do next. That is why Night Chills is such a great book. Koontz's character development is great once again. Oldgen is one of Koontz's best villans because he is so ruthless. There is nothing he won't do. He literally uses the people of Black Rivers to carry out his sickest desires. Paul Anenndale plays the typical Koontz heroine, and is a very likeable character. Paul's two kids are also enjoyable characters as well.<br />Overall, Night Chills is one of Koontz's best books. While it is his darkest and most disturbing book, the suspense the story brings is intense, and the characters are all great. Koontz's realistic and frightening look at mind control and subliminal advertising will have you glued to the pages.	2004-03-15
US	20324674	R2OBEDYMDKBH45	0425144429	520292898	Mr. Murder	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Much better than I expected...	Dean Koontz's &quot;Mr. Murder&quot; revolves around a best-selling mystery novelist named Martin Stillwater. He has a loving wife, and two energetic young daughters. Unfortunately, a terrifying incident happens that makes Martin question his sanity. A man that could be Martin's twin brother, breaks into his house claiming that Martin stole his wife, children, and his life. Claiming to be the real Martin Stilwater, the thief threatens to take what is his. Since Martin is an only child, the police think that Martin's overactive imagination is at work again, and refuse to believe him. However, as the stranger repeatedly makes his presence known, Martin and his family have no choice but to believe his threat and run for their lives. <br />Before reading this book, I figured that &quot;Mr. Murder&quot; was probably not going to be anything special. Mistaken idenitity stories have been done before, and people often claim that Koontz has written a lot better books than this one. After I finished with this book however, I was literally blown away at how great this book actually was. &quot;Mr. Murder&quot; is one of Koontz's best books and is highly underrated in my opinion. The story itself is amazing. It is well written, and provides for non-stop suspense and action that will keep you glued to the pages. The subject of the story switches back and forth between the killer himself, and Martin and his family. It lets you take a look at what's happening through the eyes of both men. <br />Koontz's character development is amazing once again. Martin Stillwater is great. How do you kill your enemy, when he is claiming to be you? That is the question that drives Martin to the edge, and then some. The conflict and turmoil that he goes through is almost overbearing at times. His wife Paige is great too. She sticks by Marty no matter what with undying love and affection. My favorite character is the killer. Killing is all he has ever known , and he is left with the need for something more. That of course being the family that he never had. His violent and desperate behavior will shock and disgust you. But the longing he feels for Marty's life will almost make you feel for him. <br />Overall, Mr. Murder is fast paced action thriller that is very fun to read. The characters all offer different emotions and inner conflict that make you like them all, and the ending to the book is shocking and highly satisfying. Suprisingly enough, I would rank Mr. Murder in Koontz's top 10.	2004-03-15
US	20324674	R34OH9MNUUTIS1	0425100650	642390946	Twilight Eyes	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Twilight Eyes is an amazing book!!	Slim Mackenzie was born with what his grandma refered to as &quot; Twilight Eyes&quot;. He has the ability to see what he refers to as Goblins. Goblins are demons that are disguised as humans. As a young boy he had to kill his uncle because he was one. Since no one else can see the Goblins for what they truly are, Slim has been on the run from the law ever since. Over the years his quest to destroy as many Goblins as possible has become an obsession. It is that obsession that eventually leads him into one particular carnival. There he meets the disfigured strong man Joel Truck who can also see the Goblins, and the beautiful Rya who becomes the love of Slim's life. Now together the three must fight to stop the Goblins before it is too late! <br />Dean Koontz's &quot; Twilight Eyes &quot; is a literary masterpiece that any fan of fiction should read. There are two things about the novel that really set it apart from the rest. The first being the carnival atmosphere and &quot; carnies&quot;. The carnies are almost like a seperate society that lives as one big family. Koontz makes you feel like you are a part of it with his beautiful description of the lifestyle. It is also entertaining the way that Koontz describes how the games are run and how they are always looking for easy &quot;marks&quot;. This is the second carnival tale that Koontz has written, with &quot;The Funhouse&quot; being the first. &quot;Twilight Eyes&quot; manages to be even better than its predecessor. The novel also provides for some twists and turns that will definately shock you, and the ending is very satisfying unlike the ending in &quot;The Funhouse&quot;.<br />The second thing that I love about this book is the characters themselves. The three main characters are Slim Mackenzie, Joel Truck, and a woman named Rya. Slim Mackenzie is one of the best hero characters I have ever seen. His leadership and overall determination is amazing. Joel Truck is another example of Koontz's masterful characterdevelopment skills. He is a giant of man that possesses superhuman strength and the ability to see the Goblins. He is however disfigured which is why he seeks refuge in the carnival. Joel and Slim make a great team. Then there is Rya. Koontz's writing is so descriptive, you can almost see how beautiful she is. But Rya also has inner demons that has caused her to spend the majority of her life in the carnival. Koontz paints a beautiful romantic picture between Slim and Rya. You can tell they are meant to be together, but there is many obstacles and nothing is cut and dry.  <br />Dean Koontz is one of the best authors around right now. Twilight Eyes showcases his ability to create realistic and emotional dialogue, an original and entertaining story, and wonderful characters. If you are a fan of Koontz, I highly recommend this book. I also recommend this book to anyone who enjoyed the film &quot;Frailty&quot;. Twilight Eyes features a similar theme.	2004-03-14
US	20324674	R1AC4HZPYLBSW5	0553580221	284106836	False Memory	Books	5	2	2	N	N	One of Koontz's best	Martie Rhodes is a successful video game designer married to a good man named Dusty. Her best friend Susan suffers from agoraphobia ( fear of open spaces) and stays locked up in her apartment everyday. She depends on Martie to take her to her weekly therapy sessions. Martie's life is turned upside down when she too becomes inflicted with a deadly fear - the fear of yourself and what you might do to others. Dusty begins a frantic search for clues to tell him what's going on. Unfortunately, Dusty begins to find himself inflicted with a condition that is even worse than Martie's. <br />False Memory is one of Dean Koontz's best books in my opinion. People often overlook it, and the majority of those who have read the book, think that it is nothing special. If you are looking for a great Dean Koontz book to read, you should definately give False Memory a try. My favorite aspect of the novel is the outstanding premise. The subject of mind control is always very controversial and interesting, and Koontz blends it into the story wonderfully. Fans of the &quot;The Manchurian Candidate&quot; will especially enjoy &quot;False Memory&quot;, because Koontz actually involves themes from the film in the story. False Memory moves at a very fast pace and is filled with action and suspense that will keep you hooked from page one. I was not able to put this book down. <br />The characters are great. They suffer from different phobias, but are all connected through their search for the truth. Martie's phobia is perhaps the most intriguing because it is very original. The fact that she fears what she might do to herself and others, allienates her from her husband Dusty and her best friend Susan. This makes it very hard for Martie to work with them to find the truth of what is happening to them. False Memory also features one of the best villans Koontz has ever created. Unfortunately, I cannot go into detail because it will give away key elements of the story. Overall, False Memory is the BEST psychological thriller that I have ever read. It is filled with outstanding characters, tons of action and suspense, and sinister methods of mind control.	2004-03-14
US	20324674	R2QD4WB4CGFUXI	0553582895	855932928	Dark Rivers of the Heart	Books	5	0	1	N	N	A thrilling chase novel...	Valerie Keene was married to the Attorney General's son. When Valerie discovers that the Attorney General is crooked and runs his own illegal agency, her husband is killed and she is framed for his death. Valerie goes on the run to gather enough evidence to take the Attorney General down. She is now working as a cocktail waitress in a bar. Spencer Grant is an ex-cop and a very talented computer hacker living alone with his dog Rocky. Spencer Grant falls for Valerie at first sight, and becomes obsessed with her. After several nights of hanging out in the bar, Spencer tails her home from work. When Valerie does not show up at the bar the following night, Spencer goes to Valerie's house to see what's up. When doing so, he walks in on an assault team of the Attorney General's crooked government agents. Spencer is forced to run for his life, and flee the area. Now with crooked government agents on his tail, Spencer must use all his resources to locate Valerie, so that the two can work together, and bring down the Attorney General. <br />Dark Rivers of the Heart is an amazing book, and definately one of Koontz's best. This complex and suspenseful book is one of the best chase novels that I have ever read. This book brings a lot of paranoia and conspiracy because of the endless chase after Valerie and Spencer. The story also takes an interesting look at the government in general. It shows that we are anything but free, and that we are monitored at all times. The governmental conspiracy that Koontz creates, really provides for a thought provoking and exciting part of the story! <br />The characters are absolutely fabulous. Spencer Grant is my favorite character. The fact that he puts his life and everything he has at risk for a woman he doesn't know is very commendable. His hacker skills are impressive, and once again Koontz creates an intelligent and loveable dog to be Grant's companion. Valerie Keene is highly intelligent, beautiful, resourceful, and a skilled computer hacker as well. Spencer and Valerie make a great team. The main villan of the story is a man named Roy Miro who leads the team of crooked agents. He is perhaps one of the best villans Koontz ever created. Roy is brutal, sadistic, and out of his mind because he sees killing as an act of mercy. The most surprising character is Eve Jammer. She is an ex Vegas showgirl that works with Roy at the agency. She spends her time using the Atorney General agency's information to blackmail people. Eve is beautiful, intelligent, and ruthless. Roy and Eve make the perfect team in and out of the bedroom!<br />Overall, Dark Rivers of the Heart is an outstanding book. It is probably one of the best chase novels ever written. The suspense and action in the book is unending, the characters are all great, and Koontz creates a frightening and realistic government conspiracy.	2004-03-14
US	20324674	R3294JPQCQUMEG	0553580191	294009896	Seize the Night	Books	5	9	10	N	N	A very satisfying sequel to &quot;Fear Nothing&quot;...	Chris Snow, his dog Orson, Sasha, and Bobby are all back, but this time it involves something more evil. Moonlight Bay looks more beautiful at night and Chris knows this from experience. Afflicted with a rare skin disorder that leaves him vulnerable to light, he has come to develop rituals that make the night his home. But as beautiful as Moonlight Bay is at night, that is when shows its menace. Now children are dissapearing. They are being taken right out of their homes and vanishing without a trace. There is nothing the families can do about it, because in Moonlight Bay, the cops work to conceal crimes and do anything they can to protect the town's deadly secret. Chris believes that the children's dissapearance and the town's secret are connected, and that the missing children are still alive. When an old friend of Chris's begs him to find her child, he plunges back into the realm of evil and mystery that only happens after dark. <br />I read &quot;Fear Nothing&quot; and &quot;Seize the Night&quot; back to back. While &quot;Fear Nothing&quot; was the superior book in the Chris Snow series, &quot;Seize the Night&quot; is still a very worthy sequel. The story looks more into the mystery of Moonlight Bay, and it also offers creatures that are new and even more terrifying than the originals. The story was put on a much grander scale, because Chris attempts to rescue the missing children. In &quot;Fear Nothing&quot; the whole story revolved around Chris only helping himself. The characters are still top notch. In &quot;Seize the Night&quot;, we get to take a deeper look into Bobby's past and see another side of him. He still has the great dialogue of a laid back surfer. I like Sasha better in this story, because Koontz gives her more of a role in helping Chris. The most surprising character however is Roosevelt. While he was in the first story, we learned nothing about him. He is the story's Dr. Doolittle, because he has the ability to communicate with animals. This also helps to give Chris's dog Orson more of a role in the story. The last thing that is great about both of the Chris Snow books is that they are in a first person narrative coming from Chris. It gives the story a more personal feel. &quot;Seize the Night&quot; does have its flaws however. At times I felt like I was reading a recycled version of &quot;Fear Nothing&quot;. Koontz spends time repeating information about characters and events that happened in the first book. The sequel's job is to expand on issues from the first book, not repeat them. <br />&quot;Seize the Night&quot; has very few flaws, and is almost as good as &quot;Fear Nothing&quot;. The mystery of Moonlight Bay is expanded upon, new and scarier creatures are added to the story, and Koontz's character development of all the characters was amazing. The good news is that the ending was left open for another sequel. Hopefully Dean Koontz will choose to make the Chris Snow saga into a trilogy!!	2004-03-14
US	20324674	R3HC98ZUX3OASG	0425121259	406917251	The Servants of Twilight	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Great read until the end...	Servants of the Twilight is an action packed story that deals with a fanatical religious cult called the Servants of the Twilight. They are led by a woman named Mother Grace, who claims that she has visions from God. Joey Scavello is the perfect six year old kid, and he is being raised alone by his mother Christine. Mother Grace's newest vision is that Joey is the Antichrist. Mother Grace convinces the Servants of the Twilight that he must be killed. To protect themselves, Joey and Christine hire the resourceful and highly successful private investigator Charlie Harrison. Charlie is determined to find out more about the cult and keep Joey and Christine safe. The only problem is that no matter where they go, the Servants are waiting... <br />I rarely read a book in one sitting. However, I had no problem with doing it for this book. The book captivates you from page one and never lets up. The suspense and horror this book brings is unreal. This book really brings a lot of paranoia and conspiracy into the story, because anyone could be part of the Servants, and they could literally be anywhere waiting to strike. The mystery of the story revolves around whether or not Joey is the Antichrist. Koontz keeps it successfully hidden and drives the reader crazy with constant twists, turns, and close calls!<br />Koontz brings his excellent character development once again. Every major character in the book has something to offer. Joey is a great. Depsite the fact he is only 6 years old, he is portrayed as acting much older. His grown-up attitude and outlook on life are very sweet and endearing. However, his behavior is so strange sometimes, that you begin to wonder if Mother Grace is right. Christine is outstanding. The love that she shows for Joey and the determination she has to keep Joey safe is amazing. Charlie is a great character. As a detective he is fast thinking and resourceful. Koontz also brings a nice romance element to the story between Christine and Charlie as well. My favorite character of the book is Mother Grace. At first she seems crazy, but as the book goes on, you start to wonder if she is telling the truth with her accurate and scary visions from God. However, I can only give this book a 4 star rating because of the very dissapointing ending. It leaves the story open for unanswered questions and the reader's interpretation.<br />Servants of the Twilight is filled with good intentions because of the characters, overall action, and the mystery of what Joey really is. However, the book lacks the follow through when it comes to the end. But overall, Servants of the Twilight is definately worth reading.	2004-03-14
US	20324674	R4PDMA0UH4QRU	0425192032	134454761	Lightning	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Amazing time travel story!!!	&quot;Lightning&quot; focuses on a woman named Laura Shane. The story begins with the night that she is born. Lightning strikes and a stranger appears out of nowhere to save Laura from a fatal delivery. As time passes in Laura's life, the same stranger would always appear following a bolt of lightning to save her from tragedy. Laura would always ask herself why the man never seemed to age, where he came from, and what his motivations were for constantly saving her. She even comes to think of him as her guardian angel. But Laura would learn the true nature of her destiny, when the stranger appears on her 30th birthday, and asks for her help. <br />This book really impressed me. You are literally hooked from the first page, because the first thing Koontz does is make you ask the question of why the stranger wants Laura alive. The story unfolds extremely well, because you slowly learn the answer to that question over the course of the story. Not only was I constantly trying to guess the stranger's intentions, but I also found myself on the edge of my seat with the endless amount of suspense that the story brings. This is due mainly to Koontz's take on time travel. The stranger is forced to repeatedly travel through time to save Laura. However, anytime that you change a person's destiny through time travel, it can seriously affect their future. The reason that Laura's life continues to become tougher and tougher is because of the stranger's involvement in her life. It creates what is known as a paradox. No matter how honorable his intentions may be, they cause something far worse to happen. The suspense and non-stop action that follows is incredible. Koontz's overall take on time travel - how it is achieved, where it originated from, and what its ultimate purpose is, is all very interesting and it actually makes sense. <br />&quot;Lightning&quot; is a combination of a great time travel story, and an action packed chase novel. The characters are well developed, there aretons of twists and turns, and the suspense will keep you on the edge of your seat. This is definately one of Koontz's best books.	2004-03-14
US	20324674	R3FG58DAYKHDO3	0425188809	50861192	Watchers	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Koontz's best book	A man named Travis finds a dog named Einstien with almost human like intelligence, and is impressed with all of the amazing things he can do. Einstein was created to be part of a government project refered to as the &quot;Francis Project&quot; that consists of Einstien and a killer monster functioning as a team to help soldiers out in battle. Unfortunately, the monster develops a hatred for the dog, and it has also escaped to kill Einstein and anyone else that gets in its way. Travis takes Einstien in, and has no idea about what is coming. Around the same time, Travis meets and falls in love with a woman named Nora who is now also in danger. To make matters worse, there is a professional hitman named Vince Nasco who has been tracking Einstien himself after he learned about the Francis Project through the people he was hired to kill. With danger on all sides, Travis, Nora, and Einstien must go on the run and try to survive! <br />If you are a fan of Dean Koontz you have most lilkely heard of this book's reputation. Countless fans of Koontz claim that &quot;Watchers&quot; is his best book. This is the one time you should believe the hype, because it is his best book. &quot;Watchers&quot; is a suspenseful and terrifying book, that will make you an instant fan of Dean Koontz. I consider it a literary masterpiece that any fan of fiction should read. It offers a thrilling story with non-stop action and terror. Koontz's character development is at its all time best in this book. Travis and Nora, the dog Einstien, the hitman Vince Nasco, and the monster itself are all well developed and facinating. Koontz makes you fall in love with all of the characters, and this is one of the only books I have ever read, where you end up rooting for the bad guys at times.  <br />This is definately Koontz's best book, and one of my favorite novels over all. Watchers is a complex story of love, greed, determination, friendship , and terrifying horror. It has something for everyone and the story never gets slow or boring. I have to warn you though, that some of the scenes in this book are terrifying and rather graphic. I found myself flinching at times. This book is also extremely hard to put down as well. I spent an entire day reading this book, and focused on nothing else until I finished it.	2004-03-14
US	20324674	R3A58LRPYNKSX1	0425181111	742127435	Strangers	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A complex and suspenseful thriller!!	&quot;Strangers&quot; revolves around a handful of people with different backgrounds, that are living in different parts of the United States. Dominic is a famous and talented writer whose nightmares cause him to sleepwalk. Ginger is a talented surgeon who fears black leather gloves and has constant paranoia of being followed. Jack is a highly skilled criminal whose fear causes him to lose interest in commiting crimes all together. Jorja has a daughter named Kara who has developed an obsession with the color red, which leads to terrifying nightmares. Brendan is a priest whose constant fear has caused him to start to lose his faith. These strangers have nothing in common except for their overall fear and their quest to find the cause of it. The truth is waiting for them at the Tranquilty Motel. But unfortunately, it may be the end of them all. <br />&quot;Strangers&quot; is a complex and extremely well written horror story that is driven by a frightening mystery. The mystery behind the fear is what I like the best. The answer to what connects all of the characters is not revealed until the very end. Waiting to find out will drive you crazy. But it is definately worth the wait, and the ending is outstanding. The concept of the story is great, because the fact that complete strangers from all over the U.S. are somehow connected to each other is very mysterious and appealing. Once you start reading this novel, you won't be able to stop. The characters are what really make this book enjoyable. Koontz's character development is at its best in this book. It is so good in fact, that it is impossible to choose a favorite.<br />Overall, &quot;Strangers&quot; is a masterpiece. The wonderful characters, complex story, and overall terror makes Strangers one of Koontz's best books. I would definately rank it in his top 10.	2004-03-14
US	20324674	R25OP0FBD0PSA2	0425147517	206722278	The Key to Midnight	Books	5	33	33	N	N	A different type of Koontz novel...	Joanna Rand left America ten years ago, and is now the owner of a nightclub in Kyoto, Japan. The one thing that she could not leave behind however, is a terrifying nightmare that she has on a nightly basis involving a man with steel fingers. When Joanna wakes up, she feels physically violated and terrified beyond comprehension. A private detective named Alex Hunter is vacationing in Kyoto and becomes instantly captivated with Joanna. However, he also knew that he had seen Joanna before in news photographs of a senator's daughter who had dissapeared 10 years ago. Alex becomes determined to help awaken Joanna to the fact that she is not who she thinks she is, and that her life, her memories, and her mind had been created for her.<br />The Key to Midnight is definately a different type of Koontz novel. He usually specializes in horror and suspense. That is why I was very unsure about reading this book. However, as soon as I began, I knew that it would turn out to be one of the best Koontz books that I ever read. The book is an extremely well written and action packed chase novel. The story is paced extremely well because you learn about Joanna's past and why her life was messed with, slowly over the course of the story. You are also kept on the edge of your seat, because there are many different people who do not want Joanna to discover the truth. This book really emphasizes the phrase &quot;trust no one&quot; because anybody could be in on it. Koontz also does a wonderful job of illustrating the different countries that the story takes place in.<br />Overall, The Key to Midnight is one of Koontz's best books. It is an action packed chase novel filled with paranoia, conspiracies, and many great characters.	2004-03-14
US	20324674	R3KFJHJY5WU90I	0425142485	111594650	The Funhouse	Books	4	19	21	N	N	Great read up until the ending	The story centers on a woman named Ellen. At the age of 20, she runs away from home and marries a man named Conrad Striker who makes his living running a funhouse for a carnival. Ellen gives birth to a freakish baby boy named Victor. Convinced that the baby is the Anti-Christ, Ellen kills Victor. Outraged, Conrad kicks Ellen to the curb and swears to gain vegenance on any children she may have in the future. Twenty-five years later Ellen has a new life and has two normal children - a teenage daughter named Amy and a ten year old son named Joey. Unfortunately, the time has come for Amy and Joey to answer for their mother's sins because Amy is pregnant and the carnival is back in town.<br />Dean Koontz is an amazing author. I have read almost all his books, and Koontz always manages to supply suspenseful tales filled with great character development. The Funhouse is no different. It is an extremely captivating and suspenseful tale. Koontz does a great job at illustrating the carnie way of life, and makes the characters come alive. I was unable to put this book down once I started it. I was pleasantly suprised, because I really did not expect that much from this book. It is a very easy book to read, and you should be able to finish in a single day because it is less than 330 pages long. I wanted to give this book 5 stars so bad, but unfortunately I could not. The ending to this book is a major dissapointment and leaves many unanswered questions. You spend the whole time on the edge of your seat waiting to see what happens, only to be left hanging.<br />Overall, The Funhouse is a book that is filled with good intentions. The story is very suspenseful, and the characters are extremely well illustrated. The only problem is that the book lacks the follow through and supplies a horrible ending.	2004-03-14
US	20324674	R1JV59GASU1WKB	042513525X	565346155	Hideaway	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Suspenseful and chilling thriller!!	Hatch Harrison and his wife Lindsay are driving home from a vacation. Before they have time to react, Hatch and Lindsay become involved in a horrendous car accident that results in Hatch passing away. By the time they are taken to the hospital, Hatch has been dead for over an hour. However, Dr. Jonas Nyberg specializes in bringing people back from the dead, and manages to revive Hatch. Hatch and Lindsay see this as a gift from God and begin to live life to the fullest. They even adopt a handicapped 10 year old girl named Regina. However, just as things seem like they couldn't get any better, Hatch makes a startling discovery. Hatch's return from death has somehow linked his mind, with the mind of a deadly serial killer. As Hatch begins to see the victims through the killer's eyes, the killer also becomes aware of Hatch's presence. Now Hatch and his family are put in danger when the killer becomes obsessed with tracking them down.<br />Hideaway is definately one of the best Dean Koontz books I have ever read. The book drags you in after the first page, and keeps you there until the very end. This book is extremely captivating and terrifying. The premise is what makes the book so great. The subject of near death experiences and the afterlife is one that is extremely interesting. Koontz's take on the subject is very creative and original. The character development is amazing in this book. Koontz tells the story from two different perspectives. One being Hatch, and the other being the killer. You come to see the story through the eyes of both characters which makes the story very well rounded. The killer is perhaps one of Koontz's best villans because of how savagely brutal he is. The description that Koontz uses to describe each kill, will make you flinch at times.<br />Overall, Hideaway is one of Koontz's most terrifying and dark books. The characters are all great, the book is filled with action and suspense, and you will love Koontz's take on near death experiencesand the afterlife.	2004-03-14
US	20324674	R2XY3VTJB0GTJJ	0553579754	600228327	Fear Nothing	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Definately in Koontz's top 5	Chris Snow is different from all the other residents of Moonlight Bay. Chris has made peace with a rare skin disorder which forces him to stay out of the light, and he must live his life by a system of one who embraces the dark. That is until the night that Chris witnesses the mysterious dissapearance of his dad's body from the morgue. When Chris begins to investigate, he is thrown into a mystery that only he can solve. The strange inhabitants of Moonlight Bay are not only after him to shut him up, but they are after his loved ones as well. Now the mystery of the town forces him to rise above all his fears and fight against the people of Moonlight Bay. It is a place, like all places that is a lot different after dark. <br />Right off the bat I am saying that Fear Nothing is in Koontz's top 5. Some people have refered to this book as a carbon copy of Koontz's other scary conspiracy book entitled &quot;Midnight&quot;. While the stories are somewhat similar, Fear Nothing is much better in my opinion. The inhabitants and other strange creatures of Moonlight Bay add a terifying background to the story. The story itself repeatedly makes you ask the one question that all fans of fiction love to hear : &quot;Who are they, and what are they hiding?&quot; The ending to this book is extremely satisfying which provides for an enjoyable read overall. But what really sets this book apart is its characters! Chris Snow and his best friend Bobby have to be my favorite all time characters of his. The obversity that Chris must overcome to fight the town and protect his loved ones is amazing. Koontz gives INCREDIBLE dialogue to Bobby! I love the laid back and almost Zen like surfer way of life that he lives by. Fear Nothing also features a great dog named Orson, that is almost as good as Einstien in Watchers. Sasha is an amazing woman. She loves Chris despite his disorder, and never leaves him through it all.  <br />Overall, Fear Nothing is a remarkable piece of fiction. This book offers a terrifying conspiracy, a fast paced story, and brilliant characters. It is definately one of Koontz's most memorable books. Why some people did not like this book is beyond me! Make sure that you also read the sequel &quot;Seize the Night&quot;.	2004-03-14
US	20324674	R3MUDD4R0HWH0I	0553582917	591020220	Intensity	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Another winner from Dean Koontz	Chyna Shepard is going to her friend Laura's house for Thanksgiving. That night Laura and her family are brutally murdered by a crazed killer named Edgeler Vess, who bases his whole life on murdering people, and the intensity that he gets out of it. Chyna manages to remain undetected and make it out of the house. Unfortunately, Vess comes out shortly after which leaves Chyna no time to escape. With no other option, Chyna is forced to secretly hide out in the back of Edgeler's motor home. Chyna wants desperately to escape and leave Vess behind. That is until she learns that Vess is keeping a missing girl named Angel prisoner at his home. Putting her own needs aside, Chyna becomes determined to save Angel and take Vess down. <br />&quot;Intensity&quot; is the perfect theme for this book, because the suspene that the story brings is INTENSE. The story will keep you on the edge of your seat, because the amount of twists, turns, and close calls will drive you crazy! The ending is especially shocking, and provides for an overall enjoyable experience. Koontz is a master at character development, and uses it to create the best villan that he ever put down on paper in Edgeler Vess. He is pure evil, and sadistic beyond comprehension. But his intelligence, wit, and charm make Vess almost likeable at times. Koontz often makes his villans have likeable traits, which makes you want to root for the bad guy. Chyna is the other half of the outstanding equation. Her selfless actions and determination are really inspiring. I love the fact that she is willing to risk her own life to save a girl that she has never met. &quot;Intensity&quot; is also an outstanding pyshological thriller as well, because of the ongoing battle of wits between Vess and Chyna. <br />&quot;Intensity&quot; is definately on Koontz's top 10 list. The battle between Vess and Chyna provides for non-stop suspense and an entertaining battle of wits between the two. The unending amount of close calls and the shockingending will leave you begging for more after you have finished. A truly great book!	2004-03-14
