US	20455384	RCH1H4VT6GDKO	0743247531	657435935	The Glass Castle: A Memoir	Books	2	38	51	N	N	Is This Memoir  Completely Authentic?	I have terrible mixed feelings about this memoir. First, it stretches my credibility to think this person remembers the tiny details she relates here. I have to think a lot of this is made up, but that maybe half of it is true. That would be fine with me if the book didn't masquerade as \\"the complete truth,\\" which the genre of memoir assumes. In fact the whole memoir racket goes along with the public's craving for \\"reality,\\" reality TV, MTV's the real world, and 24-hour news channels. So is this author cashing in on the public's easy acceptance of every word here as truth? Angela's Ashes was the first to start this trend, and I bought that book completely. But now, everyone's in on this. Everyone's got an alcoholic somewhere in their past, and a crazy, self-indulgent mom or dad. Everyone's got a struggle to relate, and they are becoming more and more outlandish.<br /><br />Second, in this book I'm asked to believe that Jeannette's dad was a drunk, but he was able to work, to drive a car, to build and fix things, to think coherently and betray a well-educated background. Maybe I'm naive about alcoholics, but somehow something here isn't adding up. I have to assume he was an alcoholic and that the scenes of violence were true, because if I think otherwise, then the whole book is a fraud.<br /><br />Unlike other reviewers, I find the writing style to be just fine. I like it and find it clear and direct. In fact, I like the book very much, and if it were called fiction, or perhaps semi-fiction and was more honest with me, I wouldn't have anything negative to say. But even my son, who is 12, cannot remember details of events when he was 4 or 5 or even 6, and that wasn't nearly as far removed as the events this writer relates. So I'm feeling manipulated, and I can't get over that. I find myself constantly questioning every sentence's veracity, and that's a distraction from my interest in the fate of this dysfunctional crazy family.	2005-09-25
US	20455384	R3VNN8TDO2MJU9	0060955376	389452453	Chain of Command: The Road from 9/11 to Abu Ghraib (P.S.)	Books	5	1	4	N	N	Disaster in the Middle East and Around the World	Seymour Hersh has done this country a real service in unveiling the callous, arrogant, dictatorial (and I would add treasonous) face of the neocon right wing and the incompetent Bush administration ideologues and architects of the disastrous foreign policies that are enveloping us today. This work is a masterpiece of journalism and truth telling. Let's not mince words. The Bush/Cheney/Rumsfeld policies have pushed us closer to world catastrophe. Every day every headline we read tells us this. Although they would deny us the truth and would deny themselves the facts, this un-American group of elitist right wingers continues to push their world-dominating American empire agenda down the throats of every nation on the planet. Hersh reports that Rumsfeld has rolled over the Pentagon, the CIA, the FBI, and the press in his obsession with man-hunting, torture, and paranoid fact seeking. It will take years to repair the damage these guys have done to the nation, which is far more unsafe than on September 10th, 2001. Hersh has given us the facts. Are we intelligent enough as a nation to heed them? We will ignore them at our and perhaps the world's peril.	2005-09-24
US	20455384	R396RFLEXBK6RV	1883011779	846940733	American Poetry : The Twentieth Century, Volume 1 : Henry Adams to Dorothy Parker	Books	3	3	7	N	N	Big, But Not Big Enough	I think the two volumes published thus far are only half of what's expected, but I'm not sure, as these were put into print five years ago, as far as I can tell. There is plenty to enjoy here, and some to rightfully forget. There's also plenty missing. (Attempts at political correctness can be so tedious and obvious.) For instance, on the enjoyment side, Marianne Moore's The Steeple-Jack is a wonder of construction, as is Robert Frost's obsessively worked out \\"Familiar with the Night.\\" But such anthologies as this are always questioned as to the method of selection, the poets disregarded, and the poems picked. Why, for instance, was Marianne Moore's Octopus overlooked? Where are W. H. Auden, Robert Lowell, Adrienne Rich, Sylvia Plath, Ted Hughes, Allen Ginsburg, and James Merrill, among so many others? Are they still to come? I hope so. And I just don't care for Gertrude Stein. Her work is unreadable and does nothing at all for me. I don't know why so much space is always allotted to her in so many anthologies. Yes, I get the point. No, I don't need 37 pages of this point. It seems her importance only lies in who she knew and how she lived, not in any actual talent she had.<br /><br />If the Library of America is coming out with any more volumes to round out the twentieth century, they are taking their sweet time about it. I really can't wait that long. In the meantime, a new American anthology is due out from Oxford in 2006, edited by David Lehman. I've had a sneak peek, and it's inclusive and won't disappoint.	2005-09-12
US	20455384	R3RHTCM96MINUM	0143039199	158590394	The Comedians (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	22	23	N	N	A Novel That Matters	Graham Greene did not feel this was his favorite work, and according to Paul Theroux, it's not his best. [Read Theroux's introduction, which should have been called the Afterword, AFTER reading the book.] Yet this novel captures a historic time and the fate of a \\"failed state\\" under the spell of a mad dictator, Papa Doc Duvalier, whose obsessions with Voodoo and power engender perpetual terror and ruin, enforced by his personal goon squad, the sunglass-clad Toutons Macoute. Greene brilliantly divides the world into \\"comedians\\" and those who actually do something. We meet a rich mix of both, beginning with Brown, Smith, and Jones, the comics, on a Dutch ship with a Greek name, the Medea, in Greek mythology an enchantress who repeatedly resorted to murder to gain her ends, like Papa Doc and others in this enchanting book. Greene weaves a tight narrative, for the most part, where dialog comes at you in staccato fashion, revealing the soft spots, lies, and bluffs of each speaker. Brown, Greene's persona, narrates the book and shows himself to be a brooding egotist dwelling on his lost father and falsely promising youth at the Jesuit College of the Visitation at Monte Carlo, where his mother had abandoned him. He's the jealous, possessive sort, a lapsed Catholic who has replaced his faith with unattainable romance. His lover, Martha, the wife of a South American diplomat, is always in his thoughts, even though he attempts to keep her out. He dwells on her every word. Greene gives their secret affair a real feel of desperation and passion, mixed with distrust and futility. We also meet Mr. and Mrs. Smith, naive American do gooders who absurdly want to open a vegetarian center in the midst of Haiti's nightmarish capital. Then there's Jones, a grifter who is the victim of his own comic farce. The \\"doers\\" are Dr. Magiot, a closet communist who sincerely tries to save lives in the name of humanity, and Philipot, who starts off as a poet and ends up in the mountains with a ragged band of rebels trying to overthrow the beast.<br /><br />Greene also shows us in a sweeping gesture the disastrous policy of the US in Latin America, as President Johnson, in an attempt to keep communism out of the region, backed the lunatic Duvalier with troops, to the utter dismay of his victims. Greene was long onto America's mischief and meddling here and elsewhere, to the point where the FBI, for 40 years, had monitored his statements and his movements, according to Theroux. In this sense, this novel is relevant to today's naive global comic and tragic American policies of ridiculously attempting to \\"democratize\\" the world, while moving American corporations into these so-called liberated nations. Greene would have very much howled about Bush's \\"faith-based\\" missteps across the globe, and he would have found plenty of failed states and shady comic and tragic characters to write about.<br /><br />Above all, here is a novel that \\"counts.\\" Because it exists, Duvalier's Haiti is preserved in its hothouse cruelty and lurid details. Although Brown's brooding is sometimes self-centered and indulgent, you will still walk away from this novel richer for having read it. The misery it vividly portrays still stalks the earth, particularly in Africa and the Middle East.ged band of rebels trying to overthrow the beast.   <br /> <br />Greene also shows us in a sweeping gesture the disastrous policy of the US in Latin America, as President Johnson, in an attempt to keep communism out of the region, backed the lunatic Duvalier with troops, to the utter dismay of his victims. Greene was long onto America's mischief and meddling here and elsewhere, to the point where the FBI, for 40 years, had monitored his statements and his movements, according to Theroux. In this sense, this novel is relevant to today's naive global comic and tragic American policies of ridiculously attempting to \\"democratize\\" the world, while moving American corporations into these so-called liberated nations. Greene would have very much howled about Bush's \\"faith-based\\" missteps across the globe, and he would have found plenty of failed states and shady comic and tragic characters to write about.  <br /> <br />Above all, here is a novel that \\"counts.\\" Because it exists, Duvalier's Haiti is preserved in its hothouse cruelty and lurid details. Although Brown's brooding is sometimes self-centered and indulgent, you will still walk away from this novel richer for having read it. The misery it vividly portrays still stalks the earth, particularly in Africa and the Middle East.	2005-09-06
US	20455384	R3KAYPV5B6L76J	0802170064	701439961	Bitter Fruit: A Novel	Books	1	16	23	N	N	Torture	Rape, incest, broken marriages, endless bitterness, rage, sorrow, and self-destruction. As I write this, I realize I am flying in the faces of all the serious reviewers who have weighed in about the historical importance of this work, of its reflection of a post-apartheid era where the wounds of the past take their awful toll on every aspect of living for both blacks and whites in South Africa today. Nonetheless, I found this work to be unbearable, stifling, suffocating, and terribly written. Its self-conscious literary style was embarrassing. Its pace makes a snail look like a racehorse. Its endless redundancy drove me nuts!! Its minute observations about the three main characters, Lydia, Silas, and Mikey, made me hate them. Its self-important deadly seriousness made me want to die. Its structure is that of (1) memories of brutalities and divisions, (2) confessions of crimes committed, and (3) bloody vengeance taken. Not a pretty story. Not a pretty book. Its title is perfect. Be prepared, gentle reader, to drink from a large cup of bitterness, if that's where you want to go. I personally found it impossible to feel the full weight of the bitterness this author has to offer here because I have not lived his life, nor have all the reviewers who have \\"enjoyed\\" this work. If I had it to do over again, I would not have suffered through this book. It was torture. But perhaps that was the author's point, to project the torture these characters have lived through. Even so, bad writing.	2005-08-23
US	20455384	R2W3TX44N7SCNN	0375414150	769177977	The Closed Circle	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Rich, comic, entertaining. Go read it!	Yes, but read The Rotter's Club first, which will throw you into Coe's 1970s in Birmingham, England. Then move on to this sometimes funny, sometimes melancholic, and always entertaining sequel that paints a disturbing portrait of British life up to 2003. Fiction and reality begin to merge as the overpowering political and economic events of our time, topmost being the American invasion of Iraq, begin to press onto the lives of these complex characters. No question that Amis and McEwan present contrivances, whereas Coe gives us real life in all its messy, comic, and tragic details. Nostalgia and the past play critical roles for Coe's generation of characters as they strive to deal with their personal histories, the persistence of which continuously shapes present events. And Coe labors to point out that the larger issues of terrorism, the disastrous American and British  Iraqi war, and the grossness of corporate greed are also shaped by unresolved events of the past. In the end, the circle closes on the lives of everyone here in this novel as they resolve or understand what happened before. It will be interesting to see what Coe will write about, now that these characters seem to be written out of his system. And it's true, as one of the reviewers said here, The Winshaw Legacy, or What a Carve Up! is a terrific work! Read Jonathan Coe! Do it now!	2005-08-22
US	20455384	R3Q1BTCIKMRG9D	0143028251	949145810	The Scent of Wet Earth in August	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Enter a World You Do Not Know	This novel was handed to me by a colleague who had just returned from India. With no expectations, I entered into a whole new world. I found myself in Lahore, Pakistan. In addition to the poetic images that are abundant and that work beautifully, the author presents us with real people inhabiting the streets of a sad run-down section of this teeming city. Each person struggles against the past, and lives in a present that has forgotten them. All they really have are one another and shreds of their sullied dignity to cling to and help them carry on.<br /><br />The main story is about a damaged young girl and her yearnings for a better life, for love, and for release from her oppressed feelings. She lives with her \\"aunts,\\" who are ex-courtesans of the night, long past their prime. These aging women try to do the right thing by this child, but only as they see it, not as she sees and feels it. The reader meets the girl's addict mother, the neighbors, a holy man who's gone to seed, his meek assistant who becomes a major figure in the young girl's life, and so many more memorable characters. They all inhabit this book, and the author finds all the right details and inner thoughts and emotions to make them come alive. I was totally surprised and delighted by this work, and I hope it receives a wider audience because it most certainly deserves it.	2005-08-01
US	20455384	R10DAASBAG2VQ1	0439784549	162568542	Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince (Book 6)	Books	5	13	17	N	N	The Darkness Before the Dawn	There can be little doubt that this goldmine series is stacked with imaginative wonders and an epic struggle between good and evil matching Beowulf, The Lord of the Rings, and King Arthur and the Knights of the Round Table. You might want to throw the Three Musketeers into that list too, in the form of Harry, Ron, and Hermione. True to her word, J.K. Rowling has evolved her characters as they age, and in this installment, she has carefully and realistically detailed the struggles and pains of adolescence in the midst of the mighty battle between love and hate, good and evil, and Harry and Voldemort. We learn much more of Voldemort, and I personally greedily sopped up every background detail as the pages skipped by with ease. Emerging from this book is the author's overall structure of the entire series. It's clear Rowling planned the whole wonderful thing out from the very first word. Now we can see how Voldemort came to be and why he is \\"evil.\\" We can see what Harry must do as the \\"chosen one.\\" We can understand what the next book will bring. But I bet Rowling has a bunch of tricks and unexpected turns up her magical sleeves. Perhaps those who are upset with the ending of this one may have their frowns turned to smiles in the end. And the darkness in this book may be the darkness before the dawn. Hooray for Harry and for bringing the joy of storytelling and of reading back into the lives of millions of children and adults.	2005-07-31
US	20455384	R1TPOA6UWRWPY9	006073132X	150560620	Freakonomics: A Rogue Economist Explores the Hidden Side of Everything	Books	2	15	21	N	N	Promises A Lot More Than It Delivers	The subtitle here is something of a fraud. Freakonomics doesn't explore the hidden side of everything. It exposes a number of commonly accepted and media-driven premises as fraudulent when statistical correlations are presented to validate or deny these premises. For instance, it is commonly believed that crime has dropped because of better policing and less drug use when it's possible that crime has dropped because the criminal population has been decreased through abortions. Underlying this \\"dazzling\\" assertion are the author's assumptions: (1) criminals are uncared for children; (2) criminals are from the lower classes; (3) poor people have more abortions than middle class people. Are these assumptions true? I don't know. The author is trying to shock. The author is trying to provoke. The publisher is trying to sell books. Harper Collins equals Rupert Murdoch. Reader beware. There's less than meets the eye here. If you learn anything from reading this book, it's to be skeptical of those experts who tell you they have your interest in mind, including this author. If you believe everything your real estate agent tells you, for instance, you will be exploited. And if you believe everything you read, you will make these authors rich. I'll buy some of it. Only two stars' worth.	2005-07-11
US	20455384	R2FNKQUX8CQDTT	0618329706	509942691	Extremely Loud and Incredibly Close	Books	5	21	24	N	N	Extremely Sad and Incredibly [What the?]	Oskar Schell, as has been said elsewhere, owes his existence to the literary tradition within which falls the iconic Holden Caulfield and Huck Finn. Oskar's in good company and shows off the quirky vocabulary and emotional makeup of the uniquely sensitive genius-child who immediately launches an assault on our sentiments. His fabulously attentive, brilliant, and loving father, as we immediately learn, has been destroyed by utter hatred in one of the Twin Towers, and Oskar is suddenly profoundly alone, having to come to terms, as they say, with this completely irrational and unfair and sad and rage-inducing event. Within the confines of this novel, Oskar seemingly lives emotionally removed from his mother as he goes about the business of trying to connect to his father. He has hoarded away the last five telephone messages his father made to their answering machine, and then finds a mysterious key in a blue vase in his father's closet. Oskar seeks out the lock within which this key will fit, with the hope that once he finds it, he will open a door to his father's life again and never have to endure his loss. He tries his best to find his way. He meets interesting people. He makes brilliant remarks. He cries. And it is very sad.<br /><br />We learn about Oskar's grandma and grandpa and their suffering and pain. We learn about Oskar's mother and new male friend. And, we see photos upon which we can meditate: stars, an elephant's eye, the back of a man's head, hands with yes and no written on them, doors with keyholes, and, most gripping, the unbearable sequence of photos of the flight of one of the Twin Tower victims to the ground.<br /><br />One can criticize this work on many levels: it's manipulative, exploitive, covertly sentimental, trite, and even trivial compared to the unbelievable devastation of that day. But such criticism is niggling. One must ask: What is the artist's response to the overwhelming horror of 9/11? How will the fiction writer create stories that engage the mind and the imagination and make us more whole and connected in the light of such polarizing hatred and the awful events that have spun off from it?<br /><br />Jonathan Safran Foer has created a voice to find entrance into the damage, the sorrow, the loss, the devastation. But it's a voice that can speak of all loss, really, not just from that day, but from all wars, the Dresden bombing, Hiroshima, Iraq, Vietnam, the Holocaust. What is left? Memories. Pain. Rage. Tears. Attempts to go on. This is what we find in this work. It hurts. But through the pain it attempts a bit of healing. Thank Oskar for that.ge the mind and the imagination and make us more whole and connected in the light of such polarizing hatred and the awful events that have spun off from it?  <br />Jonathan Safran Foer has created a voice to find entrance into the damage, the sorrow, the loss, the devastation. But it's a voice that can speak of all loss, really, not just from that day, but from all wars, the Dresden bombing, Hiroshima, Iraq, Vietnam, the Holocaust. What is left? Memories. Pain. Rage. Tears. Attempts to go on. This is what we find in this work. It hurts. But through the pain it attempts a bit of healing. Thank Oskar for that.	2005-07-06
US	20455384	RFM6S9LUBTBYS	0743242173	596383408	Early Bird: A Memoir of Premature Retirement	Books	2	19	24	N	N	Mildly Amusing	This is light stuff to the point of being cotton candy, full of air and artificial color. What could have been an opportunity to explore the hidden life of the elderly in their own segregated communities turns into the story of an ineffectual nerd \\"author,\\" in the self-centered mode of George Kastanza of Seinfeld fame, forever thinking about how he's perceived by the \\"old men\\" and \\"old ladies,\\" and about his pathetic inability to get laid. Even a self-indulgent person like Rothman, however, after being surrounded by what mortality is all about, becomes somewhat empathic and breaks out of his snarky cocoon to discover the pains and memories of his \\"old lady\\" roommate. I can't say he learns much about the elderly beyond the couple of books he reads about growing old. He could have just stayed home in Hollywood and read the books. Did he not learn much about the people he talked to because they are cliquish or because he's too self-centered to find the right questions to ask? Seems like in the long run he came to Florida looking for fatuous jokes and hilarious stories to bring back to his friends. He cracks a few jokes and tells some stories here, which aren't that funny. Old people can be mean, they can be crazy, they can be vulgar, and they can have physical problems. Hello Mr. Rothman: So can \\"young\\" people. So can you. To be fair, Rothman does try to help some people he meets, but isn't too successful at it. Old people don't cotton to change, and he gives up his efforts fairly easily. In the end, I thought this book was about as funny as a bad David Letterman routine, for which Rothman was an ex-writer. From his performance here, I can see why he's an \\"ex.\\"	2005-06-26
US	20455384	R39FNGE052H065	0385338171	852490570	The Red Carpet: Bangalore Stories	Books	4	3	6	N	N	Worth Looking Into	Lavanya Sankaran attended Bryn Mawr College and worked in investment banking in New York and as a consultant in India. It's clear from this somewhat uneven collection of stories that her background is one of privilege and material well being. She grew up with servants and a compassionate and intelligent father as well as a more traditional mother. The people she writes about struggle with modern life, with coming to terms with Western materialism, and with their conflicts with the comforting but confining traditions of past generations. Many of these stories are transparently about Lavanya, her attempts to understand her own background, and her rebellion against her parents and their traditional values. They are about her being an Indian woman growing up in the West and coming of age. In a sense, they're also about Bangalore itself, once a quiet traditional city but now an overpopulated hive of BPOs (business process outsourcing companies) where young people have choices when, just a generation ago, they had none and could choose only to migrate to the West for decent work. Now the city's young and old are culturally and economically far apart, split by the wealth and exported Western values that have come to their city. Two stories, \\"Closed Curtains\\" and \\"The Red Carpet,\\" for me are the best in the book. Here we enter the lives of more \\"common\\" people whose wealth is not so vast but whose dignity, humility, and values are very much worth hearing about. I hope these are the subjects that Sankaran writes about in her upcoming novel because they're far more interesting than the conflicts she focuses on in \\"Bombay This\\" and \\"Birdie Num-Num.\\" Whether she's up to the task of sustaining a novel is yet to be seen, but she does have a fresh voice and very good writing skills. She is someone to watch.	2005-06-18
US	20455384	R20NG5D8135TJV	1400032806	418900469	Under the Banner of Heaven: A Story of Violent Faith	Books	4	21	29	N	N	Under the Banner of Hell	This nonfiction work seems to have started out as a kind of \\"Executioner' Song\\" or \\"In Cold Blood\\" expose of a heartless double murder in Utah but then morphed into a long, detailed history of Mormonism, since the cruel murders of a young woman and her infant daughter were predicated on the murderers' delusional fundamentalist beliefs that they could talk directly to and receive instructions from God. I had no idea how Mormonism started before I read this work, but now I know that one man, Joseph Smith, was responsible for it. It's almost laughable to think that people are gullible enough to believe that Joseph Smith, first of all, in 1827, at the age of 17, was directed by an angel to a sacred text written on gold plates. Smith was also given magic glasses with which to read the strange text. But alas, his friend somehow lost the gold plates! But the angel gave Smith another chance to interpret them for the world, but without the magic glasses. Now Smith had to use a magic peeking stone, which he put inside a hat and then talked through. Perhaps this is the origin of the expression \\"talking through your hat!\\" What insanity! Not only that, evidence that Smith was a charlatan, a crook, a coward, and a lecher seems to be irrefutable. Somehow, he gathered people around him, however, and created a cult that now has millions of members.<br /><br />One has to wonder about this uniquely American-grown religion and its bloody history. After Smith was murdered in Carthage, Illinois by a mob who was angry at his \\"spiritual wifery\\" and his all-around arrogance, Brigham Young, after a convenient poisoning of Smith's brother, took the reins of this mad animal and rode it out west, to Utah. There Mormonism defied the federal government and also committed a massive slaughter of over 140 people in a wagon train heading to southern California in 1857. This was done in the name of vengeance for Smith's death and for the persecution the Mormons felt was coming to them from the federal government.<br /><br />What a blood bath. What hell. How like all fundamentalist movements who feel they are above the laws of humanity in their self-righteous and narcissistic zealotry.<br /><br />This book seems to have been written in response to 9/11. Its best and most chilling parts are those relating the details of the awful murders of 1984 and the crazed delusions of the Lafferty brothers.<br /><br />I must admit, I'm glad to be rid of this book. Its sickening details of a berserk religion and the terrible acts committed in its name simply made me depressed about the future of the human race.ernment.  <br />What a blood bath. What hell. How like all fundamentalist movements who feel they are above the laws of humanity in their self-righteous and narcissistic zealotry.  <br />This book seems to have been written in response to 9/11. Its best and most chilling parts are those relating the details of the awful murders of 1984 and the crazed delusions of the Lafferty brothers.  <br />I must admit, I'm glad to be rid of this book. Its sickening details of a berserk religion and the terrible acts committed in its name simply made me depressed about the future of the human race.	2005-06-13
US	20455384	R3BUZLX4G0GK2E	0679642889	323374805	Evolution: The Remarkable History of a Scientific Theory (Modern Library Chronicles)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Excellent Survey of the Evolution of a Theory	For those committed to knowing how the theory of evolution itself evolved through the past 200 or so years, this neat text will provide you with all the highlights and some intriguing details. From Cuvier, the French naturalist who in 1796 was writing about speciation, through Richard Owens' 1861 delineation of geologic eras, periods, and epochs, Darwin's release in 1859 of \\"On the Origin of Species,\\" and all the cultural and intellectual wars ensuing, Larson's straightforward presentation keeps you in the drama. The drama heats up considerably as a backlash against Darwin and T.H. Huxley throws the theory against Genesis and Christianity, a battle still raging in parts of the US today. Lest we forget, Larson points out how Francis Galton and Ernest Haeckel set the stage in the nineteenth century for \\"eugenics\\" and selective breeding in human populations, which fed the raging racism, sterilization programs (even in the U.S.), and extermination camps of the twentieth century. Others who signed on to a reductionist view of \\"survival of the fittest\\" felt all social programs to help the poor and weak were against the natural order of things and in fact were adulterating the survival of the strong. These views too are still with us, in conservative circles in particular. The Scopes trial of 1925 is given good coverage here, and one wonders what today's fundamentalists would say to Clarence Darrow's examination of their views.<br /><br />It is clear by the end of this account that the theory of evolution is still in transition, and its development has still to be played out. Highly recommended history that will fill in the gaps on how we got to where we are in our \\"modern\\" view of this sweeping theory.	2005-05-30
US	20455384	RD196VLRHWWJW	0060923245	545070532	Sweet Hereafter: A Novel	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Brilliant!	This book is amazing. Its narrative, presented from four utterly engrossing points of view, turns on an awful event, a fatal school bus crash in a small Adirondack town. Every time I drive down a snowy Connecticut street, I think of Dolores, the bus driver, and her bus full of kids. Russell Banks gives us, with his sparkling narration, a brilliant array of moral questions and human emotions. After reading this book I felt enriched, saddened, and thrilled by his art. The overall themes of this work are terrible loss and riveting transformation. Read it.	2005-05-23
US	20455384	R31N0IOY1Q14JZ	0375413839	22904795	The Rotters' Club	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Rich, Engaging, and Hilarious	I've read two other works by Jonathan Coe, What a Carve Up and the House of Sleep, but this novel is the most entertaining and engaging of all. Coe has captured an era of development, not just culturally in the 1970s, but psychologically in his rich characters. There are teenagers painfully growing up, and there are their parents, painfully growing up as well. Invoking the explosive backdrop of seventies IRA violence, labor unrest, and right-wing political and racial nastiness, Coe fashions the lives of his complex characters as they navigate through a troubled timeframe in Birmingham, England. I cared about these people because they were real, they were funny, and they were invested with vulnerable, human, and universal emotions. I can't ask for much more from this author, who is, in my estimation, one of the most underrated and inventive out there. Congratulations! I very much look forward to the promised sequel.	2005-05-23
US	20455384	RQFGJRH9Z0QMV	1573228281	454004836	A Gesture Life: A Novel	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Be Prepared	Franklin Hata, the narrator and main character of this novel, is a respected American citizen who has operated a medical supply store in the U.S. for 30 years.  But he is also a veteran of WWII who fought for the Japanese and whose life was permanently scarred by his war experiences. His obsessive need for control, order, and acceptance are part of that scarring. And when he adopts a Japanese girl and finds that she despises him, he cannot understand why. There's much to be uncomfortable with in this book, particularly the horrendous scenes of cruelty toward women during WWII and Hata's role in them. Hata's uncomfortable in his own skin and, as we read about his past, we come to understand why. He too was an orphan, and we realize he has remained orphaned his entire life. The author brilliantly unfolds Hata to us, his alienation from the culture he lives within, and his alienation from himself. This is a fine piece of work not meant for the fainthearted. It's strong stuff and the reader should be prepared for a grim ride.	2005-05-23
US	20455384	R1SUKUJ90UB4J9	0066212545	978444632	The House of Blue Mangoes: A Novel	Books	2	18	20	N	N	Is there an editor somewhere?	This book was a gift from a friend whose judgment I respect. I tell myself that he must have recommended it because he only read Part 1. Indeed, this book's first 100 or so pages are terrific stuff, well written, descriptive, exciting, dramatic passages about caste hatred at the end of the 19th century in the south of India. I thought I had a great book on my hands: good characters, good descriptions, good action, and lots of interest. But then I went on to Part 2 and it's as if the world had spun around 180 degrees. The writing became turgid, dull, forced, absurd, uninteresting, and even pointless in many places. I ran out of energy to go on, but forced myself forward, hoping for the fireworks that started the whole thing off, only to be sorely disappointed. At Part 3, I admit I simply skimmed through to the end because I knew the author was taking the \\"plot\\" to the next generation of characters and, frankly, I didn't care much about the author's characterless, flat parodies of people anymore. I blame the publisher for not more firmly editing the material and for not giving the author constructive criticism and firm direction. But there are few good editors, just as there are precious few good writers out there. I think Davidar has a gift, but it needs direction. I hope he finds it.	2005-05-23
US	20455384	R33VH27KR00THZ	0312421702	344894931	Complications: A Surgeon's Notes on an Imperfect Science	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Good Medicine	I highly recommend this book for all of us who entrust our lives to our doctors. This book gave me a good view behind the curtain of just how speculative medicine is and how fallible doctors are. It's made up of short pieces, previously published in magazines such as The New Yorker, which detail incidents and thoughts from the life of a resident who skillfully recorded medical cases and his involvement in them over the years. At first, I had a hard time just reading about medical procedures<br /><br />involving needles piercing heart walls and lungs being collapsed. But after the initial shock, I found the anecdotes and cases to be fascinating and instructive. I came away with a new appreciation of our fallibility and a stronger sense that we, as patients, need to take charge of ourselves and see to it that we get the best care out there from the most experienced hands. Perhaps this was not the author's intention in writing this work, but I thank him for opening my eyes to the need for constant vigilance.<br /><br />I give this book an A+.	2005-05-23
US	20455384	R2WX52RGA60BEN	038549565X	161920063	Ghost Soldiers: The Epic Account of World War II's Greatest Rescue Mission	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A Dose of Reality	If this book accomplishes anything, it should convince all who read it that there's nothing \\"fun\\" or exciting about war. There's nothing \\"fun\\" about this book. This is the true story of a rescue mission in the Philippines during World War II and is  particularly relevant today because it's also about a conflict of cultures, that of the imperial Japanese army and of the American army, and their utterly impossible attempts to understand each other, much like Bush's mad \\"faith-based\\" foray into the Muslim world. Those who suffered and died in Bataan and in a horrific POW camp in which hundreds of American prisoners languished for over two years are presented here as far more than nameless, faceless, casualty statistics. They are made to be living, breathing human beings. And to the author's great credit, he presents some members of the \\"enemy\\" army to be human too, breathing even more compassion and empathy into his powerful narrative. Hampton Sides, the author, is thoroughly successful in graphically describing this remarkable rescue mission in minute-by-minute detail, filling us in with background information, and bringing us right to the gates of the awful hell-hole camp in which so many perished. Those few who survived have told their tale of disease, starvation, and terror. Readers must ask themselves if they would have survived. And one must ask today what horrors and terrors are going on all over this world. I advise those who think war is exciting or heroic, or who think of themselves as invulnerable, to read this book and appreciate the real story. This book gives it to you, blood, guts, and all.	2005-05-23
US	20455384	R3U7DHNBX4NFA6	0140139400	391244810	The Spectator Bird (Contemporary American Fiction)	Books	5	46	49	N	N	Perfect, Funny, and Wise	In all the entangled limbs, passionate melodrama, wild fantasy, and bloody gore of today's pop and contemporary fiction, there is no match for this fine masterwork. In just a little over two hundred pages, Wallace Stegner manages to present a brilliant portrait of a real marriage, an entertaining story of a husband's pursuit of his mother's memory, and an astonishing portrayal of a bereft Danish countess whose beauty and elegance is haunting and sad. Stegner also gets in his digs about the so-called hip writers of his time, while maintaining a wonderful sense of humor and a poetic and rich style second to none. And, in perfectly chosen prose, Stegner describes what it's like to age and to know that one is aging. In his America of the 1970s, anyone past 65 was just plain forgotten and invisible, except when it came time to vote or be bait for a swindle. Nothing on that score is different today. In fact, this novel is filled with universal truths and with a steady current of wisdom that will make your reading it one of the most rewarding experiences you've had in a long time. I guarantee it.	2005-05-06
US	20455384	RF7V46GJX06UQ	0312424671	602974929	Small Island: A Novel	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Small Island: Big Heart	Andrea Levy has exhibited refined novelistic skill in structuring Small Island to fall into the past of World War II and the future of 1948 as she unfolds the inner thinking, history, and emotions of her well-wrought primary characters, Gilbert and Hortense, who are Jamaican, and Queenie and Bernard, who are British. The couples are bound together in ways that aren't immediately apparent. They all originate from small islands, both economically limited. They are all subjects of the British empire. The blatant and harsh racism shown to Gilbert is echoed by Gilbert's naive perceptions of the English. The narrative is lively and interesting and kept sparking by Levy's fine poetic images, excellent ear for dialogue, and attention to keenly observed details. It's a quick and engaging read.<br />This is a well-written and original work that deserves many readers' attention. Its broad and important themes of racism, alienation, and cultural clashes are handled with a clear eye that leaves enough room for humor and irony. Well done.	2005-04-24
US	20455384	R2DN0A5R4J743V	0842360565	705442985	The Rising: Antichrist Is Born (Before They Were Left Behind, Book 1)	Books	1	24	41	N	N	Left Behind: Standards, Literacy, Quality, Reason	This is my first, and last, book I have read in this endless, exploitative series. This \\"work\\" is nothing more than trite comic-book stuff that pretends to have a higher purpose. The real purpose is cash, and plenty of it, so that its \\"religious\\" authors can live in style while their readers sop up the pseudo-religious conspiracy messages that underlie what's supposed to be a plot. The characters here have zero depth and realism. The underlying premise that Lucifer is actively seeking power over the world and the boring repetitiveness of the \\"prose\\" is enough to make me think the world's gone mad to buy, read, and propel this rubbish to the best-seller list. The authors' idea of character development is to have their characters ask themselves hundreds of questions over and over again while the reader waits and waits for answers. Their idea of cool sophistication is to throw in some foreign words here and there to lend a Romanian atmosphere to a suffocating and thin plot. Harry Potter is far more entertaining if you want fantasy, battles between good and evil, and characters and writing that are worth the paper they're printed on. Utter garbage!!	2005-04-17
US	20455384	R2L5S128HPQKC0	0451527607	843633553	Sister Carrie (Signet Classics)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A Book Ahead of Its Time	Here is a snapshot, written by a journalist, of Chicago and New York of 110 years ago. Dreiser had never read American \\"naturalist\\" novels before he wrote this one, but had been heavily influenced by his newspaper reporting and by Balzac. What we have here is social and political messages delivered in the context of the life of a young, idealistic woman who comes to Chicago to escape the boredom of a small town and to make her way in the world. I'm reminded of the book Devil in the White City and how it emphasizes all the young women who flocked to Chicago in the 1880s and 1890s, in awe of that booming city's majesty and bustle and life. What Carrie finds, however, is utter indifference and misery until a man sets her up in a \\"love nest.\\" What a scandal! This story was controversial in its day and portions of the original manuscript were cut in order to prevent an even bigger outcry. Soon Carrie grows weary of her lover and is taken with the true tragic figure in this story, a successful married man named Hurstwood. Hurstwood falls in love with Carrie and blows his whole life up for that love. All of this is based on the true story of Dreiser's own sister, but Dreiser has embellished this squalid little tale to give us the demise of a man in minute and realistic detail, all the while commenting on the meaning of success, material well being, and what happiness is all about. This would all be trite if it weren't framed in journalistic realism. Carrie ends up a smashing \\"success\\" in the theater, but never finds true contentment, nor do any of the main characters. Question: What is the good life? Answer: It comes from internal sources, not external materialistic ones. But money, nevertheless, helps along the way to provide the leisure time to even contemplate this question.<br />Dreiser gives us an excellent portrait of what women's choices were at the turn of the nineteenth century. Without looks, talent, or extraordinary intellect, women were out of luck. Even with such assets, women depended entirely on men for their financial well being. Dreiser makes this crystal clear in this work, which was way ahead of its time.<br />The corrosive depression that Hurstwood suffers in the last third of this work is haunting, but the scenes of old New York hark to today's downtown New York, south of 34th Street, where you can still see the buildings Dreiser describes as well as the hard-luck homeless in the streets.<br />This is a unique American novel, not to be missed.assets, women depended entirely on men for their financial well being. Dreiser makes this crystal clear in this work, which was way ahead of its time.  The corrosive depression that Hurstwood suffers in the last third of this work is haunting, but the scenes of old New York hark to today's downtown New York, south of 34th Street, where you can still see the buildings Dreiser describes as well as the hard-luck homeless in the streets.   This is a unique American novel, not to be missed.	2005-04-02
US	20455384	ROOK84DPJ8MRG	0393960420	843633553	Sister Carrie (Norton Critical Editions)	Books	4	12	12	N	N	History Repeats Itself	Here is a snapshot, written by a journalist, of Chicago and New York of 110 years ago. Dreiser, according to the excellent background notes in this Norton edition, had never read \\"naturalist\\" novels before he wrote this one, but had been heavily influenced by Balzac. What we have here is social and political messages delivered in the context of the life of a young, idealistic woman who comes to Chicago to escape the boredom of a small town and to make her way in the world. I'm reminded of the book, Devil in the White City, and how it mentions all the young women who flocked to Chicago in the 1880s and 1890s and were in awe of that booming city's majesty and bustle and life. What Carrie finds is utter indifference and dullness until a man sets her up in a \\"love nest.\\" What a scandal! Soon Carrie grows weary of this guy and is taken with the true tragic figure in this story, a successful married man named Hurstwood. Hurstwood falls in love with Carrie and blows his whole life up for that love. All of this is based on a true story of Dreiser's own sister, we learn from the background notes, but Dreiser has embellished this squalid little tale to give us the demise of a man in minute and realistic detail, all the while commenting on the meaning of success, material well being, and what happiness is all about. This would all be trite if it weren't framed in journalistic realism. Carrie ends up a smashing \\"success\\" in the theater, but never finds true contentment. Question: What is the good life? Answer: It comes from internal sources, not external materialistic ones. But money, nevertheless, helps along the way to give you the leisure time to even contemplate this question. Dreiser doesn't seem to address this.<br /><br />The corrosive depression that Hurstwood suffers is hard to take, but the scenes of old New York hark to today's downtown New York, south of 34th Street, where you can still see the buildings Dreiser describes, and you can still see the hard-luck people as well.<br /><br />This is a unique American novel, well worth the time. This edition is also well worth the wealth of information it provides.ll. <br />This is a unique American novel, well worth the time. This edition is also well worth the wealth of information it provides. <br />	2005-04-02
US	20455384	R13OLJ24DPJVO2	031233706X	262250773	Kiss Me Like A Stranger: My Search for Love and Art	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Honest, Open, and Unique Memoir from an Artist and a Lover	What an open-hearted autobiography this is! It's clear that Mr. Wilder has benefited from years of therapy because he is so emotionally honest and accessible in this work, which goes down real easy. We learn about his early childhood, his physically sick mother, his feelings of unworthiness in the face of her illness, his struggles with acting and with his self-image, his career in the theater, in film, in directing, and in writing, his four marriages, his secret fears, his mighty triumphs, his artistic impulses, his struggle with lymphoma, and what he's learned from all this. He's really shared the deepest feelings of his life, a life which has given all of us so much enjoyment over the years. After you read this book, you will want to run to your local video store and pick up some Gene Wilder classics. Because he's my neighbor in Stamford and I've seen him a number of times in the local shopping strip, I have a special awareness of him, even though I haven't had the courage to say hello and also haven't wanted to invade his privacy. He doesn't seem like some pompous ass or a distant \\"star\\"; he seems like a real person, someone I would like to know. And this book confirms my impression completely. If you want to read about this sweet, good person, go out and get this book. You surely won't regret it.	2005-03-19
US	20455384	R3KR3OTJM1M2QD	037575931X	520261516	Crossing to Safety (Modern Library Classics)	Books	5	20	21	N	N	A Literary Novel of Great Power and Beauty	According to Ian McEwan, \\"There's a traditional English novel of what I would call 'quiet reportage' that doesn't work anymore; a traditional middle-class literary novel of manners and social life. It's dead.\\" So the writer of stuff such as \\"Atonement\\" and \\"Amsterdam\\" portentiously orates about how today's great novelists write literature that has plots and tries to deal with life \\"now\\" in \\"strong visual prose that is precise and ... can translate easily.\\" Perhaps to bolster world-wide sales?<br />How amused Wallace Stegner would be by such self-important and self-serving pronouncements. Stegner's \\"Crossing to Safety\\" is just the kind of \\"literary novel\\" that allegedly is \\"dead.\\" Yet it lives on, still sells after 18 years, and has much to say to us about our lives, our friendships, our relationship to nature, our memories, and our mortality. I wonder if McEwan's work will do as much even 10 years hence.<br />This novel, about the deeply felt friendship between the Langs and the Morgans, is filled with poetry and appreciation. Stegner, through the character of Larry Morgan, remembers his own early days of struggle during the depression, and his drive to write, to read, to learn, and to love. He writes of a life-changing friendship that enlivened him and his wife, and, through his deeply felt and clear prose, draws from the reader similar moments of closeness that can never be forgotten. He describes the beauty of Vermont with such grace and passion that one longs for such pure and soothing scenes for oneself. Do they still exist somewhere, or are they gone forever from this country? One would like to think they can still be found in some hidden corner where developers don't exist and chain stores have passed them by. Stegner's world is punctured by cruel realities such as polio, and cancer, and personality conflicts; yet, there is still joy in watching the sun go down or in walking in the autumn woods, and there is still joy in memories of what we love in other people. Such simple things Stegner writes about, but these things rank supreme in our hearts and define who we are now and who we have been in the past.<br />If you still believe in novels with characters and social life and literature, you must read this book. This book breathes, and you too, like Stegner, won't forget these characters and their life-affirming friendships.simple things Stegner writes about, but these things rank supreme in our hearts and define who we are now and who we have been in the past.   If you still believe in novels with characters and social life and literature, you must read this book. This book breathes, and you too, like Stegner, won't forget these characters and their life-affirming friendships.	2005-03-10
US	20455384	R3GNWRWYQ0ZUC0	0676976654	960033606	The Sunday Philosophy Club (The Isabel Dalhousie Series)	Books	2	3	4	N	N	A Leap into Disappointment	This book hooked me with its opening scene, but then, like the young man seen on page one, it went downhill rapidly. Although I enjoyed the plots in the No. 1 Ladies Detective Agency series, its charming leading lady, and its beautifully described setting in Botswana, none of these qualities is present here. This book is thin on plot and thick on pretense, chatter, and philosophical and moral ponderings that are sometimes downright fatuous and boring. I skipped much of those passages and jumped to the dialog and plot, which meant I read this pretty quickly without missing much. I was sorry to be disappointed with this work but I don't think I'll be reading book 2 of the series any time soon. The leading lady here is just a bore.	2005-02-11
US	20455384	R15SMOP08R6KY9	006081926X	244301179	Million Dollar Baby: Stories from the Corner	Books	4	10	13	N	N	A Gutsy  Book	Now that F. X. Toole has been discovered, with the explosion onto the screen of Clint Eastwood's brilliant and moving \\"Million Dollar Baby,\\" the average reader wants to know more about him and read his other stories. Although Toole himself represents an amazing story, as a cutman and boxing addict and late-blooming author, his collection here is, as others have said, repetitive, filled with stock characters, and pretty much a single story. But so what? The story is a great one, and Toole spent a lifetime learning its plot. At least he got it done, wrote a knockout piece, and had it transformed into a masterful movie that's a lasting work of art. The vicious cruelty he portrays in the long story, \\"Rope Burns,\\" which takes place at the time of the Rodney King riots, is hard to bear, as is the realistic, nasty dialogue. But I was convinced that Toole has lived what he tells, and that makes the story even more sad and unforgettable. Hey: Toole isn't Hemingway. He's a guy telling his story in a reasonably literate fashion. I give him lots of credit for having the guts to step out there and do it!	2005-02-05
US	20455384	R1GN1MCLVIFUN0	0312315732	860060808	Little Children: A Novel	Books	2	7	16	N	N	The Joke's on Perrotta	As a suburban father living in a mixed community of middle and upper middle class people, I have a strong reaction to this book. Its typical underlying platitudes about crazy parenting and light-weight people living in suburbia are those of someone assuming a superior pose. For 90% of this book, Perrotta serves up a soap-opera parade of losers, perverts, frustrated moms, selfish thirty somethings, and bratty toddlers who are just an annoying lot of crybabies and throwers of tantrums. Know what I think? I think Mr. Perrotta's got problems, but he should keep them to himself and not think all of suburbia is suffering from his frustrations. Oh yes, the ending redeems everything, but in the meantime, we are made to go from one short-circuited life to another, caring but not caring about couple A's weird marriage, and couple B's weird marriage, and couple C's weird marriage. Hey, is anybody out there worth a damn? Or are we all sniffing panties and fantasizing about what we could have been? My experience tells me this novel is make-believe from the author's world, not from the real world. I didn't care much about these people, although I do admit this is a fast read, like rifling through the NY Post or some other raggy newspaper. Not great. Not worth my time. And I regret having read it.	2005-02-01
US	20455384	R2T4AWXK4G2BK2	0802117880	459227645	Sightseeing	Books	5	4	6	N	N	A Triumphant Debut	What an extraordinary collection of seven fine pieces. Set in Thailand, the narratives are honest, believable, and fresh. They depict a modern tropical world that is an often uncomfortable amalgam of western and other foreign cultures. The ugliness of this amalgam is most apparent in the lead story, \\"Farangs,\\" and in \\"Priscilla the Cambodian,\\" where cultures collide, and the result is both comic and violent. In \\"At the Cafe Lovely,\\" \\"Draft Day,\\" and \\"Sightseeing,\\" the emotional ties of family and friendship are tested, and because the author enriches these stories with wonderfully observed details and authentic feeling, we are enlisted into these dramas and feel their pull. The same can be said of \\"Don't Let Me Die in This Place,\\" but here the narrator is an elderly American who has come to Thailand after suffering a stroke. He is there to be cared for by his son and mysteriously foreign Thai daughter in law. This American character grows in understanding right before our eyes, and we also feel his struggle to enjoy living even when the odds are so heavily stacked against him. The final story, a novella called \\"Cockfighter,\\" really showcases the author's talents. Here a hard-working family, as seen through the eyes of an adolescent girl, is almost destroyed when her father challenges the mad tyranny of a local young thug. That madness is rampant in a community \\"where words ... didn't mean a thing: right or wrong, left or right, up or down, inside or outside--our people didn't speak that kind of language.\\" And in another passage, the narrator sat on her bed, and in her frustration \\"watched the shadows list back and forth across the floor.\\" Although the ending to this novella is forced, the rest of the piece is original and well written. But my favorite of  these stories is \\"At the Cafe Lovely,\\" where the tenderness of brotherly love, in all its ambiguous subtleties, is expertly painted.<br /><br />Read this book. It's sharp, quick, and memorable.	2005-01-26
US	20455384	R14WEUGM193K8	185242401X	117152980	They Shoot Horses, Don't They? (Midnight Classics)	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Still Fresh, Still Relevant to Today's Rat Race	Although this book was written in the 1930s, it speaks to today's ennui and loss of meaning. It is still fresh and will stand the test of time, much like Nathaniel West's work. The story describes two drifting people who meet on the streets of Hollywood and find themselves in a crazy dance marathon contest. They initially wanted to meet Hollywood producers and stars through the marathon, but then just go on and on, hour after hour, day after day, dancing in perpetual motion, not knowing why they continue. Perhaps it's for the $1000 prize money, or perhaps it's just because they're in a rut, trying to escape their desparate, empty lives. The contest is just a crass racket the promoters have dreamed up to pull in cash, and the contestants are almost like animals in a great big cage who can't escape, while the audience comes night after night to gawk and laugh at them. The basic cruelty of the contest is driven home in scenes depicting nightly \\"derby races,\\" where the exhausted contestants must race around a track for 15 minutes, with the last place couple being eliminated. Bodies fall, tempers flare, and fists fly while the audience gasps and thrills to the show. In the end, we discover an enormous existential void in our two contestants, which leads to the only logical conclusion. This book is packed with sexual tension as well and should give today's slick writers pause. There's nothing new under the sun, kids. Previous generations weren't as stupid as you might think. In fact, this very fine work outstrips 99% of today's novels in its subtlety and originality.	2005-01-20
US	20455384	R1RQUSYTGPFVL6	0375422765	253560182	War Trash	Books	5	28	28	N	N	Trapped	After finishing this book, I feel finally released from the hellish nonexistence of POW life. This novel is almost unbearable in its grim, relentless depiction of the thousands of men held captive for years in Korea as they awaited the results of endless negotiations on their fates. Although their lives are individualized by the novel's narrator, Yu Yuan, an English-speaking graduate of the prestigious Huangpu Military Academy of Nationalist China, these POWs are nothing more than pawns in a geopolitical power struggle between Maoist mainland China and Nationalist China (and the U.S), represented by Chang-kai-shek and Taiwan. In the long run, no one really cares much about these thousands of displaced souls. And Yu Yuan, shifting loyalties in a dangerous but practical attempt to stay alive, finds himself trying to return to what life he had in mainland China: his old mother (he was an only child), and his fiance, who he misses terribly. But what Yu Yuan struggles to return to proves to be an illusion. Through Yu Yuan's eyes we see the corrosive effects of war, and the utter loss of identity and of meaning it produces. Although such themes have been voiced many times before in many other novels, War Trash is unique in portraying this historic period, the Korean War, and in its single-minded focus through the eyes of its all-too-human narrator.	2005-01-19
US	20455384	R21Q7CA0OIPNBE	1400031362	405618230	Morality for Beautiful Girls (No. 1 Ladies Detective Agency)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Pearls of Wisdom	What a comforting and delightful series this is! Once again, the lead character, Precious Ramotswe, and her marvelous assistant, Mma. Makutsi, are set in motion uncoiling the moral and behavioral problems of their world, and they emerge from these difficulties with pearls of wisdom for all of us. Questions such as what is good behavior, what is beauty, and what makes people act the way they do are answered with a clarity and a certainty that ring true. One cannot but like Mmas Ramotswe and Makutsi and enjoy their internal ruminations on these eternal questions. Surrounding them are other well-wrought characters who struggle with life's challenges: Mr. J.L.B. Matekoni with depression, a  wild boy found in the bush who now needs to be civilized, a big Government man who comes to the detective agency with a familiy problem that really resides within himself, and on it goes. In the backdrop are the ever-changing cycles of nature as we are enriched with sensual and clear descriptions of the rich countryside that is Botswana. One comes away from this book in awe of its author's clear vision and wide knowledge. And somehow, after you turn the last page, you are comforted by all you have received from visiting this world.	2005-01-17
US	20455384	R1CYWZ612Z43TO	0375724931	794119090	The Bridegroom: Stories	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A Major Literary Force Early in His Career	These stories were written before Ha Jin's larger works. I've read \\"The Crazed\\" and thought it was a masterpiece. There's no question these stories are not as even as Ha Jin's longer works, but they certainly are worth reading and give an excellent peek into attitudes and social mores of China today. The collision of the West with China is very interesting and the result is somewhat unexpected. I'm surprised how far the West has made inroads into China. I agree that the Cowboy Chicken story is one of the best here. Ha Jin is a major literary force and as such, all his output is worthy of our attention.	2004-12-21
US	20455384	R2P5ZYSCQ5KLXU	0385722206	749687762	Balzac and the Little Chinese Seamstress: A Novel	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Very entertaining	This clearly written novel is highly entertaining, enlightening, and instructive. Its story takes us to a remote area of China in the early 1970s during the time of the Cultural Revolution, where two \\"city\\" boys are cast away to be reeducated, Mao style, in a forlorn mountainous region by isolated villagers who know nothing of the modern world. The descriptions of this area are precise, as is the storytelling of the boys' plight. The narrative is simple and direct, echoing nineteenth-century Western literature. Both boys are enthralled with Western literature, much like kids today are taken with the latest video games, as the boys live out the nightmare of their capture as enemies of the revolution. Also woven into the book is their adolescent longing for love and sex and the joy of living, as they become friends with the beautiful daughter of the local hero, a tailor who travels like royalty from town to town, making clothes for the peasants.<br /><br />I could not put this book down as its story drove me on from the first page to the last. I strongly recommend it as a fast, well-written, entertaining work for any reader interested in good literature.	2004-12-16
US	20455384	R2X6AF3F1LDVW0	0679643109	409868832	The Complete Stories of Truman Capote	Books	5	15	18	N	N	This Is A Winner	Let's face it: Truman Capote was his own worst enemy. He started out in the dumps, with a mother who didn't love him and a huckster father who wound up in jail. Nice role models. Abandoned, raised by various cousins in the South, fought over by his two repugnant parents, he ultimately found himself in Greenwich, Connecticut with his \\"loving\\" mother and stepfather. His mother apparently was horrified by Truman's runtlike appearance and effeminate manners and never missed a chance to abuse the hell out of him. With that template of self-hatred embedded in his soul, he was headed on a path of compensating self-aggrandisement and inevitable self-destruction.<br /><br />All that said, the man could tell a tale, and exquisitely. He was full of talent, and it comes storming out in some of these wonderful early stories such as \\"Jug of Silver,\\" \\"My Side of the Matter,\\" \\"A Tree of Night,\\" \\"House of Flowers,\\" and \\"A Christmas Memory.\\" The wonderful \\"The Grass Harp\\" is also a miracle in brilliant writing, which he completed at age 26 and is foreshadowed in some of this early work, as is \\"Breakfast at Tiffany's.\\" I would mislead you if I didn't mention that some of the stories here are obviously not so great imitations of Eudora Welty and Carson McCullers. But don't throw out the baby with the bathwater. You'd miss out on some wonderful stuff if you did.<br /><br />Too much has been written about Capote's \\"wasted\\" life and early promise not being fulfilled. I don't know about that. He wrote quite a bit. I say let's celebrate what he gave us, through his masked suffering and pain, and let's dwell on the fineness of his artistry and his superb entertainments, in plain view in this collection. Of course, Random House succeeds again in producing a lovely book, the type highly readable and the look and feel inviting. This is a winner.	2004-12-07
US	20455384	R1QPYEBDGIS2FI	0679745572	725210234	The Grass Harp: Including A Tree of Night and Other Stories	Books	5	48	50	N	N	A Miracle of Writing: Capote's Genius at Full Throttle	[I wrote this review in 1999 as \\"A Reader.\\" I hope more people read it and read this book.]<br /><br />For years I've known about this work but never read it until now. I've been fishing about in contemporary fiction, looking for something entertaining, enlightening, and superbly well written, but my search ended entirely when I finally read this novel, written in 1951. Set in the South, in the countryside, this story brilliantly draws you into its magical surroundings. Its three main characters, Dolly, Collin, and Catherine, are real presences that emerge from the lush southern environs as complex, blooming beings whose lives take time to develop and understand. There is nothing slick about this writing; it's just classically elegant and clear. The story is packed with interesting people and proceeds as if inspired by Twain. It is entertaining, poetic, and meaningful all at once. I found myself rereading the opening pages, picturing the scene, and feeling how brilliant the writing was in its elegiac and inspired imagery. The story is simple: a young boy, orphaned, lives with his two eccentric aunts in a small town in the South. One aunt is mean-spirited and selfish, and the other is sweet, other-worldly, and gentle. When the mean aunt tries to exploit the sweet one by mass producing a folk medicine remedy the sweet aunt learned about from a traveling gypsy woman, the sweet aunt runs away from home with the orphan boy and her best friend, a strange Indian woman. They don't run too far, however, just to a tree house in a nearby China tree. From that point on, everyone learns something about themselves. This southern world is a generous place to Truman Capote, and it has mercies to give and lessons to be learned. In fact, it's something of a magical world, almost a precursor of the magical realism of Marquez and others. But as the characters learn about themselves, so we the readers learn too, about what love is, about change, and about what we accept in life. For Capote to have written this book at the age of 26 is truly a miracle. This book alone puts him in league with the literary giants. I highly recommend \\"The Grass Harp\\" to anyone looking for that one great book to read and treasure.o have written this book at the age of 26 is truly a miracle. This book alone puts him in league with the literary giants. I highly recommend \\"The Grass Harp\\" to anyone looking for that one great book to read and treasure. <br /> <br />	2004-12-07
US	20455384	R19GKMG1UNJ2Q	1577312295	76490439	Creative Visualization: Use the Power of Your Imagination to Create What You Want in Your Life	Books	5	13	16	N	N	You Are What You Think	Create your own reality. We do it all the time, although I have to say there are larger forces than individuals at work in the universe, such as George Bush and the Republicans or Osama Bin Laden. Nonetheless, I think everyone can benefit from reading Creative Visualization. First, if you let it, it will permit you access to relaxation, and then access to your inner peace, power, and light. Use the tools provided in this work to remake your life by sending out new patterns and thoughts and passions into the world and watching them return to you many times over.<br /><br />I believe this book speaks true as to how we conduct our lives. We often start out trodding along the worn-out paths of our parents, expecting and fearing what they have told us to expect and fear. Then, as we age and feel the confinement of these early messages, we break away and give ourselves new and exciting messages that permit us to grow. But we all can grow at any time and in any place. We just need to train ourselves in the process. Herewith, the training manual.	2004-12-04
US	20455384	R1HUAZEW8PODXW	037542217X	405618230	The Kalahari Typing School for Men: More from the No. 1 Ladies' Detective Agency	Books	4	7	7	N	N	A Wayside Stop in Paradise	I'm a neophyte to this series. I guess I walked into the middle of the party, since The Typing School is number 4 of 7, to date. This book was easy reading, comforting, polite, and harking back to another less nasty age of human interaction. No grisly murders or inhuman brutality going on here. Not much crime either. But we have a strong moral compass monitoring the daily melodramas of life in the well-drawn person of Precious Romotswe, and we have an exotic backdrop of Botswana, which is described with precision as a lovely wayside stop in paradise that is slowly caving in to the vagaries of \\"modern\\" behavior (read rudeness).<br /><br />I really liked the Typing School and recommend it as a pleasant resting place between more meaty fare. I also can see how indulging in such bon mots and straightforward writing found here can become habit-forming.	2004-12-02
US	20455384	R57MRZZRPB9HA	0345443284	471049102	While I Was Gone (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Fine Writing and Real Feelings	This was my first experience reading Sue Miller. I was drawn tothe book by the multitude of good reviews from reputable publications, and those reviewers were right about this work. It resonates, it moves, it captures character, memory, emotion, and some of the mystery of human nature. The characters became so life-like for me while I was reading that I found myself thinking about them, psychoanalyzing their motivations, seeing their faces in front of me. I guess the book reached me in particular because I fall into Jo and Daniel's generation. I too experienced life in a group house in the late sixties and early seventies and I easily related to all the yearning and pent up idealism of those times. A word about Sue Miller's penchant for detail: I think what good literature does is sort out the details of living and make a work of art from them. The details draw you in, and finally produce emotional impact that stays with you. So if you have no patience for detail and just want lots of action, a la trash novels, stay away from this one. I for one am happy I discovered Sue Miller.	2004-11-25
US	20455384	R1GUPYJB0UR7XM	037570924X	236185551	An Equal Music: A Novel	Books	5	10	10	N	N	A Fine Piece of Work	Unlike most of the other reviewers of this book, I love Bach, Haydn, Schubert, Mozart, Beethoven, etc., and have loved them for many years. So I have no patience with those who talk about the main character, Michael Holmes, as a whiner or as immature. Of course he is these things. So what? The fact is, Vikram Seth has given us very plausible characters who act with passion, who are driven by the need to find the exquisite, and who are changed forever by their encounters with this passion. And who among us haven't acted dumbly when we think we are in love and that love goes bad and our lives go bad with it? I know I have. I know I've been selfish, dumb, self-pitying. But these days it's a sin to give in to emotions. One must behave like a \\"healthy\\" person, move on, take Prozac, and just get over it. I wonder if all artists, musicians, and novelists were always \\"rational\\" and just \\"got over\\" things, would great and meaningful art ever be able to be created through such a \\"rational\\" mind? In any case, this novel is a great entertainment, beautifully composed and easy to read. I think its ending is just fine. I admit there were parts that could have been better edited, redundancies that made me impatient with Michael and Julia, but these were minor flaws in a fine novel that accomplishes a whole lot. I was very happy to meet all its characters and live among them for a while. I even went off to my local music store and got the Haydn string quartet that Michael loved so much. I highly recommend this novel to anyone, but especially to those who love Bach and chamber music.	2004-11-25
US	20455384	R3O8NVT0S2NJPZ	0380815370	109650963	The Translator	Books	3	6	14	N	N	Lost in Translation	I thought this novel would be interesting, and it was, at the outset. I found myself engrossed in the lead character and in the misplaced Russian literary figure teaching somewhere in the midwest. There were good pieces of poetry that were being analyzed, and an interesting relationship was being developed between student and teacher.<br /><br />But somewhere in the middle, I lost interest because there was just too much preciousness about it all, too much meandering in the writing, and I didn't seem to care anymore.<br /><br />I did read the work all the way through, but never regained interest in it.<br /><br />I wouldn't recommend it.	2004-11-25
US	20455384	R1IGKPSO1750C3	0375727345	498826779	House of Sand and Fog (Oprah's Book Club)  (Vintage Contemporaries)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Riveting Clash of Cultures	This novel grabbed me from the outset. Each pivotal character is fully developed and is a study in cultural imperatives. Many reviews have complained about the unrealistic situation within which these characters clash, but the conflict is not about the situation, a government real estate auction conducted under false pretexts, as it is about the harsh realities of American life and the blend of cultural backgrounds that can cause total misunderstandings and hatreds.<br /><br />A high-ranking Iranian colonel in the Shah's airforce has been disgraced and stripped of his status, his country, and his friends as the revolution of 1979 forced him and his family to flee. He finds himself in California, picking up trash along the highway with a collection of other misplaced people. But he wants to recoup his past glory and pride, and finds a way to do so through purchasing a house in auction for a dirt-cheap price.<br /><br />Unfortunately, the previous owner, a down and out on her luck woman whose husband has left her, still has a legitimate right to the home and can prove it. For her, the home, given to her by her hard-working deceased father, represents her better days, her childhood, and the core of her inner life. The conflict couldn't be clearer.<br /><br />The genius of Dubus as an author is his complete identity with these characters, his utterly convincing first-person narrative of the events as they unravel, switching from one character to the other, and his commitment to each person's dignity and viewpoint. I don't think the current movie, which I haven't seen, can do justice to this narrative technique and all the inner thoughts and pasts that each character carries with them.<br /><br />My only complaint is with the ending of the book. There's some dithering there and the writing suffers from a lack of tightness, which is everywhere in the earlier sections.<br /><br />But all along, I was riveted, in awe of Dubus's control and erudite insights into these people.<br /><br />My advice: Skip the movie. Read this book.the movie. Read this book. <br />	2004-11-25
US	20455384	R2X46ZAGR9PPAI	0195145097	106585430	Brave New Brain: Conquering Mental Illness in the Era of the Genome	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Liberating Book of Facts	Having experienced schizophrenia firsthand in my immediate family beginning in the 1950s, I was interested in seeing what medical explanations are being explored and what progress has been made regarding this devastating illness. This book beautifully presents necessary background data on brain function and on basic chemistry and genetics, and then gives lucidly presented information about new strategies and treatments. Various fields of medicine, genetics, and chemistry are coming together to present the real albeit complex picture of what these awful illnesses are about and how we can work to live with them or overcome them. Mental illness must be liberated from individual guilt, shame, and social stigma, which are still very strong in human society. Only knowledge of the facts can free us from these crippling attitudes, and this terrific book goes a long way to help. The author's PhD in literature also adds a humanistic touch to a scientific work, which I deeply appreciated.	2004-11-25
US	20455384	R1XKU2JKGZJUMH	0312420277	278415393	The Feast of the Goat: A Novel	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Remembering Trujillo	The fact that Mario Vargas Llosa spent so much effort creating this book, and its triple-visioned perspective of an interesting and ultimately vicious era in the history of the Dominican Republic, speaks to Llosa's artistic genius. Although as a general reader, I can't know exactly what is factual and what is fictional in this account, I can be drawn into the tenor of the times, the terror that ruled the nation, and the feeling of complete domination of a society by a single, overpowering individual with an iron will and an unpitying regard for his loyal opposition. We see Trujillo at his worst, not as the man who \\"saved the nation\\" from Haitian and communist rule, but as a murderer, rapist, manipulator, and sadist. The damage he inflicted has resonated for decades, and Llosa implicitly understands this as he details the lives of those who suffered and courageously sought to change their society.<br /><br />Considering the recent news of Saddam's atrocities and extremes, this book is very timely in detailing the madness of dictators and the struggles of their victims. I am grateful that Mario Vargas Llosa, an artist of world-class stature, wrote this book. It is now a living record of a dark episode in history, not to be forgotten, and of the evil extremes in human nature.	2004-11-25
US	20455384	R1U3PALRZL8A	044653045X	396332408	Feynman's Rainbow: A Search for Beauty in Physics and in Life	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A Glimpse at Feynman	There are so many informative, detailed reviews here that one can appreciate how much of an impression this little book has made on its readers. Or is it that Feynman's mythic power and personality still deeply resonate years after his death? All I want to say is that this memoir from an earlier time in Mlodinow's life opens a window to the process of discovery in science and in individuals. It recalls a crucial period for the author, who was at a crossroad and was looking for guidance. Feynman guides by not guiding, and by holding up a mirror to Mlodinow. I also enjoyed the understandable explanations of scientific theories, the discussions of string theory, and the clear presentation of Babylonian/Grecian world views.<br /><br />This book is well worth reading for both the nonscientist and the scientist, and for all those young people seeking to find their place in the world.	2004-11-25
US	20455384	R1ODESABMCI9XF	0940322528	293265194	To Each His Own (New York Review Books Classics)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Subtle Work from a Sicilian Master	This tale has the punch of a good \\"Sopranos\\" episode, one that is filled with subtlety and atmosphere. Sciascia said, according to the introduction, \\"I don't have a great creative imagination.... All my books are the story of a series of historical delusions seen in the light of the present.\\" Here the delusion is multifold: the delusion of Professor Laurana as he stumbles his way into dangerous territory merely because of his diffident intellectual curiosity; the delusion of the entire Sicilian community as it keeps its deadly secrets to itself, thereby perpetuating them; and the delusion of love as a wife deludes her husband and then, in the name of love, abets deadly acts. There are probably other delusions as well, too subtle for me. In the light of the present, a small band of old timers meet secretly to review reality and agree as to the mistakes the victims sadly made. All the characters in this disturbing and yet satisfying tale are drawn with a craftsman's fine brush requiring just a few telling strokes to present the whole picture. Professor Laurana, a quiet, intelligent man of modest habits, has all our sympathy as he makes a very human mistake. And the cronies that reside in the town gossip about one another almost as if directed by a cultural imperative, harking me back to my own Sicilian relatives. Although this work is horrifying, it also satisfies because of its fine writing, atmosphere, and well-drawn plot and characters. Bravo!<br /><br />I thank New York Review Books for bringing out this edition and will be reading other Sciascia works very shortly.	2004-11-25
US	20455384	R1UOHFVU39XPOE	0316570826	537043506	The Man in My Basement: A Novel	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Black and White, Smoke and Mirrors	This title was my first excursion into the prose of Walter Mosley, and I found the journey to be a good one. His style is punchy and direct. No flowery prose or ponderous passages here, just the direct emotions and impressions and events, which make for a solid impact on the reader. The story is both simple and complex: the narrator, who is black, is pretty much down, but not yet out. He clings to a bit of family pride even though he's been beaten down over the years by his awful uncle, who never lost an opportunity to tell him how utterly worthless he was. And circumstances and misdemeanors have taken their toll on him too. But then, down to his last pennies, he meets a bizarre little white man who simply rings the front door bell and expresses a burning desire to \\"live\\" in his basement for the summer, and to pay handsomely for the privilege of being imprisoned there.<br /><br />The two characters mirror their respective self-imposed imprisonments, but the wonder of the story is in the telling.<br /><br />This is a quick and a catchy read and will leave you thinking.	2004-11-25
US	20455384	R204F8HN551WMQ	0316907928	695695888	An Unfinished Life: John F. Kennedy, 1917 - 1963	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Real Living History: Well Done	Robert Dallek is a scholar with integrity. He feels the record on JFK should be honest, fair, and balanced, and he succeeds on all counts. This book brings to life a portrait of a unique, but controversial historical figure, born into wealth and privilege, who, rather reluctantly, chose public service over an easy career as a journalist or a writer. JFK is treated here in very human terms, not worshiped and not denigrated. We are given glimpses of his motivations for his obsessive womanizing, but all of that pales in the face of JFK's intellectual depth, complex independent personality, and larger than life presence in these pages. Kennedy tried to live every day to the fullest, and understood the context of American politics in the world order. How different from presidents that followed him and how much he is missed in the W. era.<br /><br />I recommend this book highly, if for no other reason than to spend time again with John Kennedy, his family, and his times. I don't think we'll see his ilk among us again any time soon, and that's our great loss as a nation.	2004-11-25
US	20455384	R1SXC5RV800IOX	0375705228	893031195	Italian Fever: A Novel	Books	1	3	4	N	N	Mixed Up Salad	Though I was prepared to read a good novel that would bring back memories of my visits to Italy, I was quickly bored with the main character, Lucy Stark, and her self-centered yearnings and obsessions. This character clearly hadn't lived much, raised a child, lived through a famine, or experienced much suffering. Her main posture is one of feeling superior, but for no apparent reason. I was fed up with her in a hurry, and skimmed much of the book without losing anything significant. The best parts were observations about art and travelogue-like descriptions of scenes in Rome. The rest of it was the usual blather about love and lust, affairs with romantic Italians (how stereotyped and insulting!), and a \\"mystery\\" that amounted to a hill of beans. I advise looking at the beautiful Titian on the cover of the book and then quietly putting it back on the shelf. Want to read a book about affairs? Try Anna Karenina or how about Madame Bovary?	2004-11-25
US	20455384	R3C7YUG8OS42YY	0679744029	210998112	By the Lake	Books	4	8	8	N	N	A Genuine Work with Rich Characters	This is the first work I've read of McGahern's and I was deeply moved by the lyrical writing, the poetic descriptions of the countryside and its wildlife, the lake, which looms like a living character around the lives of the village in northwest Ireland, and the precise character descriptions that bring subtle, nuanced portraits of the inhabitants to life. The work centers on a childless married couple who have escaped London to live in their cosy cottage by the lake, their farming routines, and the lives of their neighbors and an uncle named the Shah, who is the richest man in the area. All these characters are portrayed sympathetically and with great empathy. They speak richly and colorfully, and the rhythms of their speech ceaselessly entertain throughout the novel.<br /><br />I have to admit, however, that I did grow restless with the structure of the work, and the impressionistic techniques of the narrative that repeated a bit too much for me, which is why I've withheld the fifth star in my rating. However, this work is well worth reading.	2004-11-25
US	20455384	R1LNUTHVOFMA5	140003065X	366389334	A Fine Balance	Books	5	3	3	N	N	India's Tolstoy	During my recent trip to India, I was told that this book was the best work of fiction about India, bar none. Since I haven't read every work of fiction about India, I can't make that judgment, but I can say it is sobering, emotionally difficult to take, eye-opening, extraordinary, moving, funny, sad, and unforgettable, the same adjectives I would use to describe India itself. I was touched by the sweetness and humanity of the characters I met in this work, and was horrified by the brutalities perpetrated by Indira Gandhi's Emergency as well as by India's awful caste system. Also, the strength of the tradition of arranged marriages surprised me. From what I read recently in the news of Indian women being brutalized by their disappointed husbands who find they haven't acquired an efficient enough slave or a rich enough dowry, this practice continues unabated. In any case, for anyone wanting to feel what life can be like in India for the vast millions of \\"have nots\\" who struggle to survive, I highly recommend this wide-ranging and masterfully written epic work.	2004-11-25
US	20455384	R29YQ8VBFJSVMI	019283620X	385796084	The Good Soldier: A Tale of Passion (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	45	47	N	N	Master Craftsman at Work	This novel broke new ground when it was written, something in these jaded days that is almost impossible to do. Ford created an unreliable narrator and also wrote about the complex inner workings of relationships, an area of darkness that will always be immune from full enlightenment. His characters also deceive themselves as well as significant others, and yet are always in pursuit of the perfect appearance. The subtlety with which Ford has woven this tapestry makes you think twice and then three times about who his people are and what they want. Unbridled lust also rides through the book, but is forever reigned in by double standards and self-torturing conscience. Although the book requires a patient reader so that it can bloom, its payoff stays with you, and its sharp observations and lack of sentiment make you realize what a brilliant piece of art it is. As such it is not subject to becoming dated or stale, a true test of its merit. I recommend it to anyone looking for a great work.	2004-11-25
US	20455384	R2YBU92XKHHR3O	0446532231	628954405	Dude, Where's My Country?	Books	5	12	16	N	N	A Patriot Up in Arms	It's amazing how many people in these reviews rage against Michael Moore's weight. I don't think they read the title. The title isn't \\"Dude, Where's My Hamburger?\\" Moore has more weighty topics to discuss here than food or his waistline (he's recently lost 50 pounds, by the way, for all those hatemongers who can't seem to think about or address the actual content in this book). He's virtually resurrecting a vision of America that puts the people in charge and jettisons the powerful, truly bloated and obese people out of their commodious seats of power and security. In their place should be all the working stiffs who currently prop up these corrupt greed machines with their labor, their votes, and their children's lives. In effect, he's trying to breathe life into the Democratic party, which always touted itself as the party of the people. And he's trying to educate a public that's being lied to every day by the big right-wing media machine now in place in the nation.<br /><br />One of the best parts of this book was his reminder that fear has gripped the land, an overwhelming fear that is being used to fulfill an extreme right-wing agenda. FDR said we have nothing to fear but fear itself, and indeed, we should be greatly afraid of how fear is being disseminated from our industrial/military government and our cynical, ignorant president. That fear is driving us away from our rights and away from our senses. It's blinding us to the dirty politics that Bush practices, the lies he constantly tells, and the nasty money connections which trigger too many of his thoughts, words, and deeds. Bad boy, Bushie!<br /><br />I thank Michael Moore for his love of America. He loves this place so much that he took the time and trouble to write this book and to remind us all about who should be in charge here.<br /><br />Great stuff, Michael. Just watch your back because lots of people hate you. They hate you because you're telling the truth, something that's a big threat to their personal agendas.. <br />	2004-11-25
US	20455384	R2KQPKVM0JYAY7	0375758771	197783362	The Glass Palace: A Novel	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A Finely Crafted Work	Be prepared to learn about a part of history and an area of the world about which you know next to nothing. Ghosh has done a great deal of research to give his novel lush detail and historical accuracy, and then provides a rich family saga around which he delivers the fruits of his laborious work. More than that, he makes us think about the evils of empires, and the implications of personal decisions to serve masters other than those of our own making. He tells the story of displaced peoples, manipulated by the British not just physically, but mentally and spiritually as well. One final comment: The book is damn entertaining, and will stay with you long after you've read the last page. Instead of what most novels do, which is fade out after the first 100 or so pages, this book builds on itself and expands in richness as it draws closer to the present day. I highly recommend it as a work in which you can lose yourself and come away entertained as well as highly educated about a part of the world you may never have thought about.	2004-11-25
US	20455384	R3JWDTPQISAZ32	0156028042	662984404	Night And Day	Books	5	12	14	N	N	The Transforming Power of Art	Here is an artist at work, painting the nuances of the heart, creating living people, reacting to the subtleties of mood, ambiance, the weather, and external perceptions that make up how we live and who we are. No matter what you think of these people, you have a chance to live with them and understand them, feel their conflicts, their love, and their pains. Virginia Woolf is the ballast that offsets all the one-book-wonder authors, the cynics, the nasty moderns, and those authors who have given up on anything positive in the world. Like Shakespeare, her work will live on long after so many others are forgotten. That's because she offers us art, hope, vision, and the truth about our humanity. It's all here in this book, if you choose to read it.	2004-11-25
US	20455384	R1PJADX789GXL2	037570342X	564250926	Family Matters	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Unique Voice of a Literary Giant	Rohinton Mistry is well on his way to receiving a major literary award. Shunning postmodern experimental deconstructionalism, political correctness, and all the modern shibboleths that litter the cultural landscape, Mistry has seen fit to write straight from the heart in a voice that creates verisimilitude with reality. His characters are alive, his choices of details are correct, his moral dilemmas are true, and he brings us from the personal to the political, from the individual to a whole social, economic, and living world. He gives us a small situation, a family in conflict, a once vital man now struggling with illness, and he shows us all the connections to the past, to youth, to loss, to a struggle for redemption. His themes are those of great nineteenth-century novelists, of Tolstoy and Proust, and these themes live in today's world as well. Why have so many writers abandoned them for an easier self-indulgence of their egos? Because it's so much harder to be an artist, to write well, to tell a story that carries universal meaning, and it takes great courage to stand on one's principles, to take a risk and perhaps appear out of fashion.<br /><br />Mistry is in the tradition of Turgenev, Chekhov, and Tolstoy. But he is his own voice and brings something unique to us. He brings Bombay, decrepit in its current state, but with a rich past that now is only remembered in photographs treasured by those who still care, although they too are a dying breed. He brings a family to us, replete with economic struggles, childhood struggles, marital struggles, political struggles, and spiritual struggles, but Mistry's talent is to take us to a far higher level, a universal level where we can see ourselves very clearly.<br /><br />That is the talent of a true artist, one whom you shouldn't miss.<br /><br />I read that Mistry canceled his book tour to the U.S. because he was constantly being harassed at airports due to his \\"foreign\\" appearance. What a shame.	2004-11-25
US	20455384	RS502FV8CSPAX	1585673269	604887058	The Radetzky March (Works of Joseph Roth)	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Not Enough Stars for This One	There can be very little more satisfying than discovering a new author. I had never heard of Joseph Roth until a friend recommended I read anything written by him. I picked up this title because it was the only one available in my local library.<br /><br />What a stroke of luck!<br /><br />This is a masterpiece of the highest order. There are no accidents in this beautifully crafted and written work of art. Every detail and scene is carefully calculated to present the complex life of the individual in the overall rush of history, as an empire decays and collapses and an entire value system fades away, along with the Emperor Franz Joseph and three generations of the Trotta family. The individual also lives and quickly dies within the eternal cycles of nature, so poignantly drawn by Roth.<br /><br />I will never be able to do this work justice in just a brief review. I read the Everyman's Library edition, with a brilliant introduction by Alan Bance (which should absolutely be read AFTER reading the work, not before). That introduction does justice to every aspect of this masterpiece and pays tribute to Roth as a major literary figure.<br /><br />This work alone puts Roth in the company of Flaubert, Mann, Faulkner, Steinbeck, Fitzgerald, Woolf, Kafka, and anyone else you can name. Bance points out that there's something of a sequel to this work in \\"The Emperor's Tomb,\\" which I have read and also thoroughly enjoyed.<br /><br />If you care at all about art and literature, please read \\"The Radetzky March.\\" I guarantee you will not be disappointed.	2004-11-25
US	20455384	R16JTW9QRFT5G7	1901285375	100430123	Journey by Moonlight	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Intriguing, Alluring, Sexy, Dark	A classic in Hungarian literature, so I've learned, this work rightly deserves its vaunted status. Deceptive in style, and written almost from a Kafkaesque perspective, one feels as if one is walking in the landscape of \\"The Castle,\\" but dealing with characters from Donna Tartt's \\"The Secret History.\\" The blend of the two is intriguing, and the feeling this work gives of 1930s European degeneracy and ennui is alluring and, one assumes, authentic, since it was first published in 1937 but has been made available in English for the first time now. The work isn't for everyone. It can be a bit ponderous and requires a certain mindset to appreciate its subtleties and its pace. But it is well worth reading for those with a literary bent, since, without a doubt, it is a highly nuanced literary work.	2004-11-25
US	20455384	RODLAEK3AH1IL	0375421815	987113882	The Crazed: A Novel	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Original and Solid; Stay With It	This book was the first I've read by Ha Jin. I tried Waiting but didn't give it a chance. Now I will.<br /><br />Reviewers don't say much about a book's design, but this one merits high praise. Iris Weinstein, the designer, picked the typeface Cochin for the text, which is a \\"versatile face and looks well on any kind of paper.\\" In addition, its \\"italic is delightful,\\" say the notes at the back of the book, and indeed it is delightful. Italic is scattered throughout the text, as Prof. Yang, the dying, delusional teacher of Jian Wan, Ph.D. candidate and devoted student, is constantly quoting lyrics from various incongruent sources such as Red Brigade songs, children's propaganda ditties, and Dante, Goethe, and Tu Fu. The italic veritably dances on the page. And the text too is solid. Somehow I kept thinking about Kafka as I read this novel. Something about the design of the book, and Ha Jin's style of writing, and what he was writing about, the utter madness of Prof. Yang, the stifling conditions of China, and Jian Wan's constant attempts at trying to make sense of it all drew me back to Kafka's The Trial and The Castle. Indeed there are similarities between the two writers: being trapped in an absurd world of irrational authority, constantly trying to make sense of a hopeless bureauracy, outbursts of vicious violence, and feelings of deep hopelessness. But Ha Jin also is unique. He writes of a secret world we are just beginning to understand. And he draws us to the horror of Tiananmen Square. He writes of personal struggles with love and meaning, and how these \\"personal interests...motivate the individual and therefore generate the dynamics of history.\\" That is what makes Ha Jin's work dynamic and true.<br /><br />Warning: One must stay with this work, even though it is dominated by the rantings of the Professor and the puzzled, constant attempts of his student to understand what seems to be madness. All the threads are woven together, and in the end, you will be completely rewarded for your patience.rewarded for your patience. <br /> <br />	2004-11-25
US	20455384	R2MXOCXFCGS1N4	0618485228	25220636	The Namesake: A Novel	Books	2	72	86	N	N	A Short Story Masquerading as a Novel	Based on my reading of Lahiri's fine short story collection that justifiably won the Pulitzer Prize, I expected a complex, nuanced novel which would deliver closely observed and clear writing. I was ready for a real treat.<br />Instead, I got a kind of automatic writing of a drawn out short story. At first, the book opens very well with descriptions of a birth and an awful train wreck that changes the course of Gogol's father's life. I thought I was in for something brilliant. But then the plot, if one can call it that, drags and drags. The writing becomes antiseptic, mistaking minute observation for literature, and losing its overall passion and reason for being. I had to fight through much of this book, skipping pointless passages, and enduring elaborate descriptions of Gogol's lovers, their clothes and hairstyles, their shoes, their parents, and their parents' homes. All for what?<br />Then, when Gogol must confront his father's death, we see him acting like a zombie, retching, breaking up with his girlfriend, but never getting to anything that moves us. His mother's reaction to her husband's death seems inauthentic. And in fact, much in this novel is just that. After a while, I just didn't care about the characters.<br />The real problem is that Lahiri is a short story writer who tried to stretch a short story into a novel, but didn't have the substance in the original idea to bring it off.<br />I was frankly disappointed.	2004-11-25
US	20455384	R2UY7C4P737ZJO	1400043417	268437494	Birds Without Wings	Books	5	14	16	N	N	A Historical Novel That Couldn't Be More Timely	This long historical novel is broken up into over 90 episodes and diary-like testimonials that present the complexity of events in early 20th-century Greece and Turkey in easy to read form. Well researched by De Bernieres, the work couldn't be more timely as we see the sufferings of \\"civilians\\" in Iraq flash on our TV screens every night. As in the period of the Ottoman empire portrayed here, we witness firsthand a society being torn apart by greed, corruption, the stupidity of its own leaders, and the untrustworthy meddling of western and extremist powers.<br /><br />De Bernieres telescopes this awful struggle through the lens of a small peaceful town near the southern coast of Turkey and populates it with a rich array of characters. The lives of the Christians and Muslims in Eskibahce at the turn of the nineteenth century are inextricably bound together emotionally, economically, and spiritually, and the author, unleashing a full spectrum of emotions and events, puts us in the middle of their society. Love, that most troublesome phenomenon, irrationally blooms between the unearthly and beautiful Christian girl, Philothei, and the pathetically enamored Muslim goatherd boy, Ibrahim. A life-altering friendship binds together two boys, the Christian, Mehmetcik, who later is thrown into a labor battalion during the \\"jihad\\" against the infidel Franks and Greeks, and the Muslim, Karatavuk, who fights in Gallipoli and doesn't spare us the horrors of war and ethnic and religious hatreds. The town's imam and Greek orthodox priest are mutually respectful of, if uneasy with, one another. But these bonds, so carefully composed and tenderly maintained, are undone as the Franks, the generic term for westerners, and then the Greeks tear at the fabric of this paradise, and the \\"civilians\\" are forever diminished for it.<br /><br />De Bernieres has clearly taken great risks in trying to encompass so much complex history within this book. Armenians, Greeks, Muslims, pashas, Germans, Italians, Brits, and Mustapha Kamel Ataturk all are here, as are love, friendship, hatred, violence, vengeance, birth, sickness, and death. In addition, the author gives us doses of philosophy about the frailty of life as he interweaves birdsong and bird images throughout the text. We are birds without wings, who long to take to the air and be free of our ties to the earth and our mortality. But we must embrace our differences if we are to flourish. This is a lesson we have yet to learn., Brits, and Mustapha Kamel Ataturk all are here, as are love, friendship, hatred, violence, vengeance, birth, sickness, and death. In addition, the author gives us doses of philosophy about the frailty of life as he interweaves birdsong and bird images throughout the text. We are birds without wings, who long to take to the air and be free of our ties to the earth and our mortality. But we must embrace our differences if we are to flourish. This is a lesson we have yet to learn. <br />	2004-11-19
US	20455384	RZ28HCFMHKH4A	081084950X	526754554	Little Caesar: A Biography of Edward G. Robinson	Books	5	17	19	N	N	"This was a man."	This book, except for the Epilogue, was written in 1983, ten years after Edward G. Robinson's death. The author, Alan Gansberg, therefore had the opportunity to interview a number of key friends and relatives to gain insight into the man, and we are richer for it. Emanuel Goldenberg, aka Edward G. Robinson, was defined by his strong Jewish upbringing and the words of his father, who taught his children to improve themselves and to \\"Always live beyond your means. It will make you work harder.\\" Robinson took both pieces of advice to heart. He was a life-long learner, a tremendous workhorse, and made the best of every talent he had. In his early efforts to get into acting, he sold himself with the line that he was \\"not good on face value, but good on stage value.\\" And he delivered, got noticed, and found himself, in 1915, in the play \\"Under Fire,\\" a war melodrama where Robinson played three different parts. The play opened first in Boston, and Robinson received a glowing review in the \\"Boston Globe.\\" Shortly thereafter, the play went to New York, and Robinson again got good notices in \\"Vanity Fair\\" and \\"The Theatre Magazine.\\" This was the turning point for Robinson. At 22, he dropped out of CCNY, bought a new wardrobe, and turned his full attention to his new career. And this book takes you through every aspect of that brilliant career, including the awful times of the early 1950s, where Robinson was forced to appear (twice) before HUAC to clear his name against anonymous charges that he was a communist sympathizer and even a Russian spy. Heading up the right wing and enforcing graylisting and blacklisting was the head of the Screen Actors Guild at that time, none other than Ronald Reagan, who knew which way the wind was blowing and made certain his career was never in danger. This book puts Reagan in a bad light as a manipulative, self-serving, self-righteous fellow with little compassion. The consequences of Reagan's indifference to the suffering of his fellow actors are apparent in Robinson's and others' suffering, including that of John Garfield. Robinson, like millions of others, was nothing more than an FDR liberal all his life, and wasn't shy about it. For this he was punished, and, in the Epilogue, Gansberg draws parallels to today's repressive national climate.<br /><br />I have always enjoyed Edward G. Robinson and am grateful to Turner Classic Movies for broadcasting Robinson movies from his Warner Brother years. Robert Osborne, the host of TCM, mentioned this book at the recent screening of \\"Larceny, Inc.,\\" a 1942 \\"flop\\" that actually is pretty entertaining today, if a bit tiresome.<br /><br />The book has an excellent Appendix listing all the stage, screen, television, and radio appearances of Robinson. I highly recommend this book to anyone wanting to read about the life and times of a great actor and a warm, engaged person. Robinson's biggest fault, which he himself admitted, was that he wasn't a great fathter to his troubled son, Manny. That comes across in the book too. \\"This was a man\\" is a line from the Antony soliloquy in \\"Julius Caesar,\\" which Robinson used in his first audition, in 1912, for the Sargent School, later the Academy of Dramatic Arts. The soliloquy describes Robinson himself.are apparent in Robinson's and others' suffering, including that of John Garfield. Robinson, like millions of others, was nothing more than an FDR liberal all his life, and wasn't shy about it. For this he was punished, and, in the Epilogue, Gansberg draws parallels to today's repressive national climate.  <br />I have always enjoyed Edward G. Robinson and am grateful to Turner Classic Movies for broadcasting Robinson movies from his Warner Brother years. Robert Osborne, the host of TCM, mentioned this book at the recent screening of \\"Larceny, Inc.,\\" a 1942 \\"flop\\" that actually is pretty entertaining today, if a bit tiresome.  <br />The book has an excellent Appendix listing all the stage, screen, television, and radio appearances of Robinson. I highly recommend this book to anyone wanting to read about the life and times of a great actor and a warm, engaged person. Robinson's biggest fault, which he himself admitted, was that he wasn't a great fathter to his troubled son, Manny. That comes across in the book too. \\"This was a man\\" is a line from the Antony soliloquy in \\"Julius Caesar,\\" which Robinson used in his first audition, in 1912, for the Sargent School, later the Academy of Dramatic Arts. The soliloquy describes Robinson himself.	2004-10-06
US	20455384	R384KMCUDGVBNT	0393059421	844050142	Losing America: Confronting a Reckless and Arrogant Presidency	Books	5	70	73	N	N	A Voice in the Wilderness	Those who knock this book don't understand the point of what Sen. Byrd is saying. In fact, from some of the negative reviews I've read here, it seems that some haven't even read the book at all and are merely throwing a review up in hopes of trashing this work so others won't read it. Well, I've read it, and I strongly advise everyone to read every word of it. It will give you an insider's view of how Congress and the Executive branch of government are functioning these days. When George Bush debated Al Gore in 2000, he said he would reach across the aisle and work with the Democrats to unite America in a common purpose. These words are laughable today. Senator Byrd, a long-time senate veteran who has worked with numerous administrations, both Democratic and Republican, speaks from years of experience in stating that he has never seen such callow, arrogant, and ignorant behavior as this Bush administration has demonstrated. Bush's contempt for Congress and crude grabs for power that have set our government's delicate and successful system of checks and balances on its ear for years to come are carefully presented by the senator. Bush's bill to authorize the war on Iraq was filled with language that took away the power of Congress to make war and gave Bush carte blanche permission to attack anyone he perceived as plotting against America. So what mechanism is in place to stop Bush and his hawks should he desire to attack Iran or North Korea or Jordan? The military in this country is supposed to be overseen by a civilian authority, but it seems that things have been reversed in Bush's administration. The military and its inherent need to make war is in charge in America, and Bush is merely an instrument of its will. And the budgeting of all this activity was ramroded through Congress with next to no debate or accountability from the Bush administration. This kind of stonewalling of Congress is not only showing contempt of Congress (an impeachable offense), but it is indicative of a certain hubris and a contempt for the American people. It shows a fundamental lack of understanding of American history, American government, and the American people. I can't thank Senator Robert Byrd enough for standing up to this new kind of dictatorial force in America, reminiscent of the McCarthy era. I just hope the American people educate themselves to this force and restore balance and democracy to our beloved land.ndicative of a certain hubris and a contempt for the American people. It shows a fundamental lack of understanding of American history, American government, and the American people. I can't thank Senator Robert Byrd enough for standing up to this new kind of dictatorial force in America, reminiscent of the McCarthy era. I just hope the American people educate themselves to this force and restore balance and democracy to our beloved land.	2004-09-26
US	20455384	R1BEBXHB294VUN	0743243315	864788878	Brick Lane: A Novel	Books	5	5	8	N	N	Highly Recommended	This book is carefully crafted and tells the story of the evolution of a Bangladeshi woman who comes to a foreign city to live with her arranged husband, Chanu. It is the story of the liberation and strength of this woman, Nazneen, as she grows out of a childhood dominated by the concept of unmovable \\"fate\\" determining all action. As Nazneen evolves and begins to think for herself, she sees that she can take on \\"fate\\" and create her own perceptions, think her own ideas, feel her own feelings, and stand up to the powerful grinding forces that are always ready to ensnare her. Because her husband is \\"kind\\" and does not beat her, she is able to have moments of autonomy. She meets Karim, a young rebel who brings her work in the form of clothing to be sewn. They have a forbidden love affair. Her two daughters are perfectly drawn: the older westernized and cocky, the younger tense and insecure. And her husband is so well constructed as a character that you understand exactly what makes him tick. He is a multifaceted character, representing the immigrant experience in all its bluster and frustration and self-deceit. All this takes place in the backdrop of 9/11 and the Bangladeshi community in London, seemingly authentically described in depressing and rich detail.<br /><br />This book required my patience, as its pace is sometimes slow.  But Monica Ali is a keen observer, and although at times she can overwrite and be carried away by her poetic rhetoric, she rewards the reader often with sharp images and perceptive character analysis. By the end of this book, I was convinced it was well worth the effort. The liberation of women is a worldwide movement, not just a western one, and this book chronicles its dramas, its agonies, and its triumphs. I highly recommend it.	2004-09-06
US	20455384	R23CNLY4N4GYPT	1585673277	953314025	The Emperor's Tomb (Works of Joseph Roth)	Books	5	24	24	N	N	A Giant among Writers	Although this novel is not a real sequel to The Radetzky March, it takes place within the confines of the same period, the wasteful and waning days of the Austro-Hungarian empire. But it goes a step further and brings us to the sad, purposeless, lost days following the end of the empire, where all that remains as a symbol of past glory is Franz Joseph's tomb, outside of which stands a lackluster guard who, in effect, is guarding a memory that is fading away. And from these vacant days emerges an evil, the Third Reich, almost as a consequence of the indifference that the narrator, Trotta, exhibits. Trotta, like the empire, loses everything in the end: his friends, his mother, his wife, his son, and his country. He is the ultimate alienated modern man in search of meaning. He longs for the certainty of the past and cannot change or adapt to the present. And he is utterly lost in the face of overwhelming evil.<br />All of this is presented in exquisite prose and imagery that captures delicate emotional nuances and historical events. Joseph Roth accomplishes more in just a few pages than most writers do in a hundred. He was a great artist, a literary giant, whose genius I hope will be fully recognized in the coming years.	2004-04-12
US	20455384	RB4PD6I08FGA9	0940322587	901846523	The Radiance of the King (New York Review Books Classics)	Books	3	9	12	N	N	Too Much of an Object Lesson for Me	Although Toni Morrison's introduction to this book raves about its unique character and its genius, to me the introduction is more about the deeply thoughtful mind of Toni Morrison and not about this book. I found the main character, Clarence, to be rather shallow and naive and uninteresting, which is why my interest was not able to be sustained throughout its narrative. I understand this work was published in 1954, which makes its author a revolutionary in even conceiving of it, but for me it is allegorical and is teaching an object lesson to white civilization about African civilization. And that lesson is hammered home on every page until finally there is an understanding reached. I think I get it.<br />Perhaps it's me, but I just can't read novels that are constructed in this way. They are too didactic, too unliterary. I'm sorry Mr. Henry Louis Gates, Jr., but I am a lover of literature and I did not admire or enjoy this book. But I do appreciate its historical and sociological importance, and for that alone I gave it 3 stars.	2004-03-29
