US	20997233	R2B78Y7BML5582	0195067142	78132355	With the Old Breed: At Peleliu and Okinawa	Books	5	5	6	N	N	The Classic Account of the Marine's Island Campaigns	This is one of the finest narratives of modern combat ever written. The author was a young southerner who enlisted in the Marine Corps in the months following Japan's attack on Pearl Harbor. Sledge was sent to the South Pacific, where the United States was taking back a seemingly endless chain of tiny coral atolls. The implacable enemy - who almost never surrendered - was dug in deep and had to be rooted out through air, naval and artillery bombardment, small-arms fire and even hand-to-hand combat. The islands were hot and humid and the conditions the marines lived under unfathomable. Through courage, grit and dogged determination, the marines prevailed, but none of them were left unscathed. Sledge, who went on to the quiet life of a biology professor, writes of the Pacific War from the point of view of the infantryman, eye-deep in the blood, muck, mire, courage and comradeship of combat.	2004-10-04
US	20997233	R1BO1B156ORZX1	0060084332	270759759	The Myth of the Great War: A New Military History of World War I	Books	4	8	15	N	N	The Tipping Point of the Great War...	For a long while there seemed to be few books on World War One. Now there seems to be a provocative new title each month. John Mosier is an English professor at the University of New Orleans who came up with an innovative curriculum to study the two world wars. In this new book, which relies on a body of recent research drawn from fresh sources, Mosier depicts the Germans as superior in every way to the armies and leadership of the French and British. He maintains that the war had reached a tipping pint and that it was only the intervention of the Americans in 1917 and 1918 that insured the final victory of the Allies.	2004-10-04
US	20997233	R2YR19F059DQPJ	0140072187	527630151	Chickenhawk	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Classic Tales of the Helicopter War	Robert Mason was a reluctant warrior who flew more than one thousand combat missions as a helicopter pilot in Vietnam.  Because of the mixture of fear and bravado that made up his character, he named his book \\"Chickenhawk.\\"  It is one of the finest personal narratives from the war in Indochina.  Mason's book is simply a searing, but beautifully written recollection of one veteran's experiences - exciting, tragic, humorous, pathetic and ironic.  Starting with pilot's training in Texas, Mason takes readers on an irreverent journey aboard the helicopter, which was a ubiquitous presence in Vietnam.  Used for transporting troops into areas of almost impenetrable triple-canopy jungle where vehicles could not take them, these landing zones know as \\"LZ's\\" were often \\"hot\\" meaning that the choppers, so easily brought down by the enemies small arms, were under fire.  Then, when soldiers were wounded or killed, the choppers had to come back in to pick them up.  The bravery of the pilots and crewmen was legendary and because they were the thick of it - essentially flying to the action every day - they suffered grievous losses. Mason's readers will understand the kinship of men joined together in a small group under the most difficult of conditions.  The author was a young man who wanted to fly and so he ended up in the Army flying in \\"the helicopter war.\\"  His experiences in Vietnam, the heroism and loss that he was witness to, shaped his thinking and made him angry and bitter over what he felt was a poorly run effort and a unnecessary loss of life.	2004-10-04
US	20997233	R30P10BZECUKNP	0375708227	105731385	Masters of Death: The SS-Einsatzgruppen and the Invention of the Holocaust	Books	4	7	9	N	N	The Early Pase of the Holocaust on the Eastern Front	Masters of Death is a difficult book to read, at times almost unbearable. It is an examination of the early years of the Holocaust, illuminating for the first time the monstrous evil of the Einsatzgruppen, the mobile death squads who followed along behind the Nazi combat troops, executing more than one and a half million innocent human beings. Rhodes shows us that educated German professionals commanded the killing teams carrying out such massive crimes as the massacre at the killing pits of Babi Yar. He has provided us with evidence of just how evil the Nazis were and how deep the depths of depravity can be	2004-10-04
US	20997233	R1QG08A4KHBXQR	0684870274	62503323	Vietnam: The Necessary War: A Reinterpretation of America's Most Disastrous Military Conflict	Books	4	18	23	N	N	Provacative View of the Vietnam War	Michael Lind would seem like an unusual person to reinterpret the titanic struggle over Vietnam. He is a writer, poet and left-of-center journalist who feels that despite the enormous cost in lives and material and the deep flaws in American policy, the war still served a purpose. Lind views the war as part of the Cold War and feels that we were sure to lose some battles in the fifty-year campaign to contain Communism. He divides the war into two distinct phases, an overwhelmingly guerilla insurgency in the years before 1968's Tet Offensive, and a more conventional, territorial land war that began after Tet. Lind believes that the strategy employed in the first phase was horribly misguided, and that afterwards, Congress and the American people had lost faith in the entire sorry affair. The Necessary War is a well-argues polemic that challenges conventional wisdom.	2004-10-04
US	20997233	R3I2DW1JZYTW40	0060930349	796423640	A History of the American People	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Excellent Narrative Synthesis of American History	Paul Johnson seems to turn out one vast doorstop of a book after another, and few subjects in Western history escape his curiosity. This work is a warm, rich, easy-reading narrative of the United States from the early settlers to the present day. It is no secret that Johnson - like many British writers - is a religious man, and his faith makes him particularly insightful at describing the religiosity that is such a vital part of the American foundation. Johnson's interest in art and culture and his gift for the telling anecdote make this a book that should be read, not simply referred to.	2004-10-04
US	20997233	R3D8W8JQIW0VAV	0674076087	63813983	The Black Book of Communism: Crimes, Terror, Repression	Books	4	39	46	N	N	A Dry, Sober Accounting of the Crimes of Communism	Stalin was quoted as saying \\"one death is a tragedy, a million is a statistic.\\" In The Black Book of Communism, Stephane Courtois, a former French Communist, and his fellow scholars have tried to document the 20-century crimes of the Communist regimes. Utilizing newly opened archives as well as established sources, the European researchers have come up with a sobering death toll - up to 25 million in the Soviet Union, some 65 million in Communist China, almost 2 million in Cambodia and tens of thousands more in places like Vietnam and Cuba. In addition to the tens of millions of deaths, the book documents the repression and cultural desecration brought on by Communist regimes from East Germany to Romania to Tibet. This book isn't easy reading but it is a staggering account of the depravity of totalitarianism.	2004-10-04
US	20997233	R34O0T9KCCCKUL	074323779X	755026760	Code-Name Downfall: The Secret Plan to Invade Japan and Why Truman Dropped the Bomb	Books	4	9	10	N	N	The Actual Plan to Invade Japan	When Col. Paul Tibbets, flying the Enola Gay, dropped the first atomic bomb on the Japanese city of Hiroshima, it was prevent an American invasion of Japan. If the bombs were not dropped and the ensuing cataclysms had not caused Emperor Hirohito to break the tie in the War cabinet, bringing the unconditional surrender of Japan, a massive invasion would have been necessary - one that would have dwarfed the one at Okinawa, which required twice as many ships as are in the entire United States Navy today. Arrayed against the Americans were millions of Japanese soldiers and civilians, all of which the defense minister Anami wanted to mobilize in what he described as \\"the glorious death of 100 million.\\" For the first time, a book details the actual plan to invade Japan, summarizing the experience and tactics that led up to it and the losses that were envisioned.	2004-10-04
US	20997233	RQBC8VKXT79FA	0811824926	183124333	Tour de France/Tour de Force: A Visual History of the Worlds Greatest Bicycle Race	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A Consise Overview of the TDF with Excellent Graphics	Thanks to Lance Armstrong the Tour de France has finally broken through all the stick-and-ball-sports coverage to enter the American consciousness. Now, American viewers can turn on the Outdoor Life Network, now known as \\"Versus\\" and witness the world's biggest annual sporting epic. In this large-format, paperbound book, James Startt, and American expatriate, gives readers an excellent introduction to the history and lore of the Tour, which dates back to 1903. He chronicles the evolution of the event from a little-known publicity stunt for the sporting paper that evolved into l'Equipe into a worldwide phenomenon. The photography selected for the book is brilliant, ranging from poignant black-and-white images from the early years to the crisp color photography of the modern era. Although the tour is only one event on the seven-month-long cycling calendar, it is the most prestigious and thus the subject of a growing shelf of English-language books.	2004-10-04
US	20997233	R2ZC562YH7Y9CK	0553372122	390838119	The Sixties: Years of Hope, Days of Rage	Books	3	11	17	N	N	The New Left from Inside - From a True Believing Leader	The Sixties is a vivid account of a turbulent era by one of the leaders of the \\"New Left\\" who played an important role in the anti-war movement. The book's qualities and flaws both flow from the author's knowledge that Gitlen has of many pivotal events and personalities that give the bok its intimacy but also lead him to hold the leaders of the New Left less culpable for some of the negative aspects of the era than a writer with a broader perspective might. In general, Gitlin portrays much of the radicalism of the anti-war movement and the New Left as a loss of innocence rather than a dedicated plan to accomplish the goals of the Old Left - \\"participatory democracy\\" or radical egalitarianism drawn from Marx while distancing themselves from Stalinism and identification with the Soviet Union. Gitlin covers the origina of the New Left, the Civil Rights movement and the development of Black radicalism, the growth of the women's movement and the sexual revolution, the joining of the radical left and the counterculture and the collision of these elements with the \\"silent majority\\" of more conservative Americans that made the era so tumultuous.	2004-10-04
US	20997233	R2ZRCIGW4T79LE	1586482165	20105947	Allies: The U. S., Britain, Europe, And The War in Iraq	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A Leftist's Defense of the Bush/Blair War	William Shawcross is a man of the left who made his reputation with the book Sideshow, which was about Kissinger, Nixon and their campaign in Cambodia. Unlike many on the left, in this slim, provocative volume he supports the Anglo-american alliance in Iraq and the Bush-Blair campaign to oust Saddam Hussein and attempt build a more liberal Arab society in Iraq. Shawcross was appalled by the death of his friend Sergio Vieira de Mello, the UN diplomat who was killed by the truck bombing of the UN compound in Iraq. He sees Islamic terrorists as the forces of darkness who are opposed to the civil society and feels that leftists who express sympathy with them are terribly misguided. Shawcross is very critical of French policy, which he feels has not been driven by idealism but by cynicsm, craven self-interest and myopic anti-Americanism.   <br />   <br />   <br />    <br />  <br />	2004-10-04
US	20997233	R3NLURA0MTD971	0760311943	158351746	Great Book of Fighters: An Illustrated Encyclopedia of Every Fighter Aircraft Built and Flown	Books	4	7	9	N	N	A Comprehensive Reference Guide w/o Narrative	This is an excellent reference book for those of us who enjoy airplanes and military history. A vast, double-folio sized book, Fighters is a comprehensive illustrated volume which attempts to cover virtually every fighter plane ever produced - from ill-fated prototypes to successful mass-produced planes like the Supermarine Spitfire, Mig 15, McDonnell-Douglas Phantom and the Grunmann F-14 Tomcat. The text is straightforward, terse and technical, but then, this is a reference work, not a narrative volume. Written by William Green, Gordon Swanborough and Mike Spick, all veteran aviation journalists, Fighters is a great table-top reference for the aviation enthusiast.	2004-10-04
US	20997233	R19JX1PHJGFGF9	0521558794	428237087	A World at Arms: A Global History of World War II	Books	4	10	13	N	N	Excellent Single Volume History of WWII	Because of his years in Columbia University's War Documentation Project and his work microfilming captured German documents for the American Historical Association, Gerhard Weinberg has an encyclopedic knowledge of the history of World War II. This massive book is the apex of Weinberg's work on the war, and it summarizes the entire war in a single volume. At a recent lecture i was impressed by the author's derision at Nazi strategy, which he considers highly overrated. Weinberg writes simply and with great clarity, and while this book will seldom be read cover-to-cover, it will be memorable for the WWII enthusiast or the general reader.	2004-10-04
US	20997233	R21ORLS8427ER3	0810982013	273523129	The Last Steam Railroad in America	Books	5	9	10	N	N	The Classic Chiaroscuro Photography of Winston Link	While my major interest in photography has always been the early-20th-century Camera Pictorialists, I've always loved the photographs of the late Winston Link. With their tremendous detail and chiaroscuro, they have qualities few photos have - drama and mood. Link was actually trained as an engineer but made his living as an industrial photographer. Even his commercial photographs had a strong narrative drive; they told the story of his clients' products. Because of his tremendous mastery of technique, Link was able to compose photographs with great spatial depth, and through well-placed illumination, bring them off. Link was long interested in steam locomotives but when a commercial assignment brought him to Virginia, he began a five-year-long project to document the Norfolk and Western railroad, the last steam railroad in america. While he shot the trains of the N & W in daylight - in both black and white and color - it was his night scenes that made Link a cult favorite among photographers. To capture the tremendous size of the locomotives and their ever-present steam, Link carefully composed each shot, blocking in where the locomotive would arrive and placing syncronized flashbulbs along the track to capture a steam locomotive at full cry. Winston Link was an American original who answered to his own muse - the steam locomotive.   <br />   <br />   <br />    <br />  <br />  <br />  <br />	2004-10-04
US	20997233	R3MPWL7G2NB7BF	0142437905	978537760	Storm of Steel (Penguin Classics Deluxe Edition)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Classic Account of Trench Warfare from the German Side	Storm of Steel is abeautifully written - even lyrical - memoir of the Great War. Ernst Junger was a young German soldier who, like many men his age, was anxious to test himself through the crucible of combat. While many soldiers enlisted out of patriotism, soldiers often had internal motivations, those that Shakespeare expresses so well in Henry V. Junger's account depicts the savage intensity of trench warfare: artillery bombardments, raids through the opne hell of \\"no man's land,\\" murderous machine-gun fire and the mud and stench of life in the trenches. Incredibly, unlike millions of others, Junger survived the war, became a writer, then was estranged from Hitler's Germany, his works only becoming popular again in the postwar era. He died in 1998, at the age of 103. This book is a new translation of a classic memoir of infantry combat.	2004-10-04
US	20997233	R3BIIB9XIB4I2P	1402202229	320948130	George Washington's War	Books	4	2	3	N	N	George Washington - The Irreplacable Man	George Washington's War is a portrait of Washington's irreplaceable leadership in the American War of Independence. Bruce Chadwick vividly describes the tremendous difficulties Washington overcame to keep an army in the field, and his underrated qualities as an administrator and tactician. In the end we see Washington as the central figure in America's long struggle to gain her independence.	2004-10-04
US	20997233	R1XRR8HY7YPSL1	0195159241	835981375	A Leap in the Dark: The Struggle to Create the American Republic	Books	4	2	3	N	N	An Excellent Narrative Account of the Path to Indepenence	John Ferling is a gifted writer and skilled at extracting details that illuminate the founding fathers and the dramatic events of the Colonial era. He does an effective job of summarizing the philosophical ideas of the American founding and the bitter contest between the revolutionaries on one hand and the British soldiers and their loyalist allies on the other. Ferling concludes his book with the struggle to chart America's course between the Federalists and their opponents.	2004-10-04
US	20997233	R2FI6BADTJ84ME	0060928832	664906388	From Dawn to Decadence: 1500 to the Present: 500 Years of Western Cultural Life	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Intellectural History of the West - A Brilliant Summary	Jacques Barzun is a peerless scholar on the history of Western civilization. In the past I've read some of his books of essays and shorter works, but from Dawn to Decadence is a massive volume that summarizes cultural life in the West over the last half-millenium. Barzun is a witty, subtle writer of great intelligence who is at the same time very readable. He makes sound but often idiosyncratic judgments that illuminate the great characters of history. Because of his encyclopedic knowledge, Barzun has been compared to Gibbon, who wrote the magesterial Fall of the Roman Empire in the 1770s. This book will also be a classic that will be reprinted time and time again. I can only claim to have read sections of this impressive work, as I research various topics, but each page is full of intelligent insights.	2004-10-04
US	20997233	R3FIH0YR5C6H3J	0679726101	169597856	Citizens: A Chronicle of the French Revolution	Books	5	2	3	N	N	The French Revolution - The Ripples Are Still Being Felt!	The French Revolution - which began as a series of reforms and ended by devouring its leaders - was the first of the great upheavals on the continent. It is the subject here of history professor and popular historian Simon Schama, who has written another of his eminently readable books.  <br />     The French Revolution was inspired by the American War of Independence, which the French supported as part of their continuing struggle with Great Britian. However, while the American leaders had a firm grasp on the principles of government and a good British model on which to build, the French were inspired by a different set of ideas and had little idea of exactly what would replace the Ancien Regime. Schama has a great eye for detail and a gift for narrative history, and this large-scale work is a deep exploration of the first great revolution of the left -one whose reverberations are still being felt to this day.	2004-10-04
US	20997233	R1DKU3W3O7BWJC	0393320863	452127514	Reflections on a Ravaged Century	Books	4	14	15	N	N	Reflections of a Historian of Stalinst Depravity	For a long while, Robert Conquest was a controversial figure, for he saw and illuminated the monstrous evil of Stalinism. The Harvest of Sorrow is one of my most indispensable books, as it documents the millions of Ukranians who were sacrificed on the altar of collectivization. After a lifetime of looking at depths of human depravity in the modern era, Conquest has written a sober, reflective work that lays the harvest of corpses at the feet of the twin radical ideologies of Communism and National Socialism. Finally, he is more than a \\"Eurosceptic,\\" being a scholar who is convinced that the European Union is not merely divisive, but doomed to failure. Conquest writes well and this book is full of insights that any student of history should enjoy.   <br />  <br />	2004-10-04
US	20997233	R30XRWX9NJAL5F	0060516054	433958284	What Went Wrong?: The Clash Between Islam and Modernity in the Middle East	Books	4	1	4	N	N	Questioning the Descent of the Arab World	Bernard Lewis is one of the pre-emminent scholars of the Middle East. He is a traditional scholar of immense erudition and learning who has spent a lifetime studying the Arab Middle East and Islam. The attacks of 9/11 and the American response have provoked millions to simply ask: why? What has gone so wrong in the Middle East to create thousands of suicide bombers and conspirators who spend years planning cataclysmic attacks on America and the liberal West? Why has Islam, which once advanced science and learning, turned away from modernity in favor of the fever swamps of conspiracy and a fantasy world of a new caliphate? In this modest book, Bernard Lewis uses his knowledge to deliver a trenchant analysis of the true state of the Islamic world.	2004-10-04
US	20997233	R2IS023NLHU04H	0679724141	821994534	A Bright Shining Lie: John Paul Vann and America in Vietnam	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Vietnam War as Seen Through the Prism of John P. Vann	Vietnam was a complex and divisive war, one which has had longlasting effects on American culture. Our longest conflict, it was an epic struggle in which the US tried to prevent the southern half of the country from being unified with the Communist north after the departure of the French in 1954. In doing so we ended up propping up a corrupt south that was badly fractured by ethnic, political and religious rivalries. Through the character of John Paul Vann, who came to Vietnam as an Army advisor in 1962 and was finally shipped home in a coffin after he repulsed a large North Vietnamese force in 1972, Sheehan reveals the tainted struggle over Vietnam that he witnessed as a journalist and as a close friend of the brilliant, brave and fatally compulsive Vann.	2004-10-04
US	20997233	R3LCMQVT1X1RE3	0393325555	361013472	Terror and Liberalism	Books	4	13	14	N	N	Terrorism as anb Attack on the Liberal Order	Paul Berman was a major figure in the \\"New Left\\" of the 1960s. Like a few other prominent leftists, he sees Islamic terrorism not as a blow against injustice or inequality but as an attack on the liberal order. In this book he delves deeply into the life and thought of the Islamic scholar Sayyid Qutb, whose writings have provided the intellectual foundation for a number of the radical Islamic movements. Berman advocates aggressive action by America and the Western nations, not based on the political \\"realism\\" favored by many on the right, but to foster a more liberal order in the Middle East. He criticizes the naivete of the left, which insists on seeing the conflict between radical Islam and the West through the prism of strong vs. weak, or oppressors vs. the oppressed	2004-10-04
US	20997233	R3D1Z96Y60J1L	0738203157	109662766	The Dark Side Of Man (Helix Books)	Books	4	35	37	N	N	Violence is Man's Original Sin Says the Good Doctor	Because it reaches deep inside the dark soul of man, this is a book that has aroused a great deal of controversy. Michael Ghiglieri has tackled a very difficult subject - the origins of male violence.  Emerging from the field of anthropology and evolutionary psychology is the argument that male violence is deeply entrenched, that it is part and parcel of being male, not largely due to social factors.  This idea makes people uncomfortable because if violence is a largely immutable male characteristic, than utopian social schemes won't be able banish it, to throw it on the dust heap of history. The author is an anthropology professor who toiled as a field biologist in Africa and Asia, where he worked with chimpanzees, the most intelligent of the great apes and man's closest animal relation.  This work with the great apes - once thought to be peaceful animals - has contributed to his conviction that violence - while varying by degree from individual to individual - is an immutable human trait as it is among the chimpanzees.  Ghiglieri is an advocate of evolutionary psychology and believes that most traits make sense when viewed through the prism of reproduction. He argues that male violence is largely a reproductive strategy.   <br /> Ghiglieri begins by citing the ever-larger body of scientific evidence that indicates just how different men and women are and why their reproductive goals fundamentally diverge.  Then, he begins to address the spectrum of male violence - warfare, genocide, warfare, murder and rape - and begins each chapter with real world examples before segueing into a recitation of his evidence as to which reproductive and biological imperatives are fulfilled by that behavior.   <br /> One of the most controversial chapters of the book is about rape.  While campus feminists have repeated the mantra that \\"rape is about power, not about sex\\" so many times that it has become part of the conventional wisdom, others have long questioned this certainty frompurely logical viewpoint.  After all, in a rape, the victim is not simply subjugated and beaten, but sexually violated.  Now, Ghiglieri explains rape in the animal world and how it fulfills a mating strategy and then methodically marshals his evidence to prove that it is a disturbing but entrenched human mating strategy as well. <br /> In a bold move, the author has a number of prescriptions - strategies - that he advocates in order to minimize the effects of male violence. In addition to our violent traits, he cites mankind's attributes, his ability to cooperate, to channel behavior, which   will allow us to cope with man's innate aggression.  Ghiglieri wants us to be appropriately tough on criminals, to eliminate those who are most violent, to encourage self-defense and advocates a criminal justice system that is almost biblical in its sense of retribution.  According to him, these actions would reduce the damage done my male violence as they channel the protective strategies that are innate to me. <br /> So, to Ghiglieri, there is no font of primitive happiness, no ideal society that so many anthropologists have sought.  Man simply has a dark, aggressive side that is programmed into his DNA and so while it may be challenged, it can never be eliminated. With its disturbing anecdotal examples of male violence and its conviction that male aggression is an immutable reality, \\"The Dark Side of Man\\" is a disturbing book, but instead of looking away from some dark questions, it addresses them head-on.  While the outlook for the world will forever be grim if man's baser instincts are hard-wired into us, it is probably better to be realistic about them so that we can develop effective countermeasures.   <br />	2004-10-03
US	20997233	R3SF3W60BXO8GZ	1557501963	331098377	Brown Water, Black Berets: Coastal and Riverine Warfare in Vietnam (Bluejacket Books)	Books	4	12	14	N	N	Excellent Introduction to the Brown Water Navy in Vietnam	<br /> In an interesting plot twist, the 2004 Presidential Election has brought a little known arena of the Vietnam War to light.  Because Senator John F. Kerry, the Democratic nominee, made his valorous service in Vietnam a central component of his primary run and the centerpiece of his nomination speech at the Democratic Convention, a group of fellow veterans has challenged his version of events that occurred in Vietnam and ran a series of commercials attacking his credibility and calling him to account for the accusations that the young lieutenant had directed at his fellow veterans after coming home.  The angry rhetoric that these two groups of veterans have exchanged has been the impetus for the press to write and speak about warfare on the coffee-brown waters of Mekong Delta back in 1968.  Unfortunately, it seems like many members of the press haven't done their homework and thus the stories lack the valuable background and contextual information that would have made them more accurate. <br /> \\"Brown Water, Black Berets\\" (which is still available) is one of the few books that have been written about the fresh water and coastal navy in Vietnam and I wish it were in wider circulation. It mainly covers the southernmost part of Vietnam, which the military cut into four tactical zones, so the bottom of the country was IV Corps.  If we look at a map of Vietnam, we can see that there is a wide river, the Mekong, which empties into a vast delta, just south of Saigon. Because the Mekong ran right into the heartland of South Vietnam, it became a conduit for the North Vietnamese to smuggle arms and supplies into the south in order to equip their allies, the Vietcong guerillas.  To interdict these vital supplies, the United States Navy and the Vietnamese Navy had to equip a force of boats that was small enough to navigate the rivers and yet strong enough to fight off attacks from well armed guerillas.  Additionally, the Vietcong brought supplies down the coast using sampans and other small boats, requiring offshore Navy and Coast Guard patrols to chase and intercept them.   <br />  To fight this new type of war, the United States Navy created a new force of light including the little \\"Skimmer\\" a tiny \\"Boston whaler\\" used for offshore use, equipped with an outboard engine, the PBR (Patrol Boat River) which was a purpose built 31 ft. long, fiberglass hulled, diesel engined boat with a jet drive (it was made by Jacuzzi - a name familiar to many suburban homeowners) which enabled it able to turn on a dime. Then, there was the Louisiana built \\"Swift Boat\\" or in the Navy parlance, the Patrol Craft, Fast (PCF).  The now famous Swift was built on the hull of a transport boat that ran crews on and off the oil drilling platforms in the Gulf of Mexico.  These Swifts were a bit larger craft, fifty feet long, with an aluminum hull, powered by twin diesels, with screws, not the jet drive of the PBR.   The boats were fast - about 28 knots - and powerfully armed with a pair of twin .50 caliber machine guns mounted over the pilothouse, with another mount on the fantail, this one an over/under arrangement of a single .50 over a 81mm mortar. Despite their weight and the firepower that allowed them to put a great deal of lead on target, the Swift Boats had a shallow 3  foot draft, making it possible to get up small rivers and canals.   <br />In addition to these craft, the Navy had larger boats designed to transport ships upriver and even constructed \\"Monitors\\" which were powerfully armed with a 40mm cannon in a rotating turret, hence the name.  All these craft were necessary because in the vast delta, there were few roads and the waterways were the easiest way to get around for friend and foe alike.  The men of the United States and Vietnamese navies used all of these craft to interdict the enemy's supplies and to transport ground troops and Navy Seals up river.  Confronting the small boats of the Vietnamese was a perilous activity because in SouthVietnam, every sampan could carry innocent peasants or a Vietcong guerilla with the machine gun or grenade. Additionally, the enemy would lie in wait along the canals, ready to seize the opportunity to ambush the patrol boats with heavy machine guns, mortars and small arms fire. <br />As the war went on, the Navy came up with some innovative programs in order to take the fight to the enemy, so about the time John Kerry volunteered for them, the Swift Boats and PBR began to operate more aggressively, operating in small flotillas to provide cover to each other.  So, up until the later years of the Nixon administration when the United States Navy began winding down its operations, the men of the \\"Brown Water Navy\\" performed a difficult task and by all accounts, did it well.  As a result, a large percentage of Navy losses in Vietnam - extremely light for offshore sailors - were on the small boats of the inland navy. <br />\\"Brown Water, Black Berets\\" is an award-winning book that interweaves personal stories of heroic fresh water sailors with the \\"big picture\\" of the strategic decisions. It also includes information about the design and deployment of the boats.  The author, Thomas Cutler, was a veteran of the \\"Brown Water Navy\\" and his service in the last year of the war gives him the authority and experience to tell his fellow veteran's story well.  Solidly written and well researched, this book will please anyone interested in military history, the Vietnam War or someone who is just curious about the type of boats Senator John F. Kerry commanded as a young lieutenant some thirty-five years ago.   <br /> <br /> <br /> <br /> <br />	2004-10-02
US	20997233	R2INEVKEBS5LQC	0312223374	952774713	The Noblest Triumph: Property and Prosperity Through the Ages	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Private Property Laws are the Basis for Prosperity	Why, over the past few hundred years has the west done so much better than the rest?  Why have some countries become modern while others lag behind, with only a few wealthy citizens and the largest part of the society mired in poverty?  In his book \\"The Noblest Triumph\\" Tom Bethell argues that the incredible success of modern market capitalism rests upon the west's strong commitment to the institution of private property and the legal guarantees that make them secure.  While he doesn't argue that this is the sole factor but he argues that it is a vital one as human nature dictates that people are more productive if their labor will reward them personally. We live in an ownership society and when a body of law backs the claim that the vast majority of citizens hold on their businesses and homes it gives The United States a stability that other societies lack.   Bethell compares the strong property rights found in the western nations with the weakness of such rights in other lands. He makes a strong case for laws insuring property rights by showing that a lack of legal guarantees prevents foreign investment as investors fear having their investment seized at the capricious whim of a new leader or the nationalization of their assets.  These sorts of occurrences which are so common in the third world,l retard foreign investment for decades.  So, the vast amount of foreign capital invested here in the United States is a tribute to our rule of law. <br /> Bethell's thesis is supported by the recent scholarship of Alvaro Vargas Llosa in his Mystery of Capital who maintains that there is indeed capital to be invested in many third world countries, but that it sits on the sidelines because of a lack of legal guarantees and the financial infrastructure that fosters safe and productive investment. The author argues that third world nations would be much better off creating an umbrella of property rights for landowners, homeowners and businessmen, insuring inside investment andrewarding their country with both stability and long term growth. <br /> Bethell buttresses his case with examples drawn from the United States and a wide range of other nations and cultures.  He looks at early American colonies, which attempted communal ownership, Robert Owen's experiment in property less society in New Harmony, Indiana and of course, the long, brutal Soviet experiment.  He contrasts these examples with China, which while still authoritarian has put in place legal guarantees and encouraged foreign investment creating a new \\"ownership society\\" and a fast-growing economy, lifting millions out of poverty for the first time.   <br /> Bethell's work is wide-ranging, divided into a series of chapter essays where he examines failures and successes as well as the abstract philosophical arguments of Plato, Locke, Hume, Rousseau, Ricardo, Engels, Marx and Keynes.  Bethell supports his thesis - that economic prosperity depends on private property guarantees - well and has marshaled a wide range of examples in his concise and well-written tome.  His case is logical as when all the citizens of a nation are subject to the same body of law, not the capriciousness of a ruler, an economy can prosper.   <br />	2004-10-02
US	20997233	R1KHS4XZKG0PP3	0785814477	143046422	A Life Wild and Perilous	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Classic Account of the Incomparable Mountian Men	When I drive across the great open spaces of the American West, I like to imagine what it must have been like one-hundred and fifty or two-hundred years ago, when there were no roads, only the well-trod tracks used by the Indians and the paths created by the animal inhabitants.  As I write this, the two-hundredth anniversary of the Lewis and Clark Expedition approaches and it is with that epoch-making trek across the new Louisiana Purchase that Robert M. Utley's opens his fabulous \\"A Life Wild and Perilous\\" which is the story of the famous \\"Mountain Men\\" who blazed the first trails across the continent.  Utley was the Chief Historian of the National Parks Service and as such, he is familiar with the broad sweep of western history.  The mountain men played a vital role in the exploration of the west in the era before the 1840's and in the westward expansion of the settlers afterward.  <br /> Today, we simply look at a map, see where we want to go and go there. Early in the 18th century, the maps that existed were primitive and so anyone going west had to rely on a guide, someone who either knew the way or who could be relied upon to find a path without getting his party killed by Indians or dying of thirst or starvation.  It was a treacherous time to live and so it took a tough group of men to blaze the trail. <br /> In this book, Utley describes the experiences of Colter and Drouillard, the first \\"Mountain Men\\" who ranged far and wide on the Lewis and Clark crossing and the fateful trio of Robinson, Hoback and Reznor.  He writes extensively about my favorite, the heroic Jedediah Smith, who survived a mauling by a grizzly and went on to make one epic journey after another before dying in struggle where Comanches finally killed him.  There are the stories of Ewing Young, who like Smith came to California, Joe Walker, the trapper and mapmaker Warren Ferris, Jim Bridger, a western legend and last of his kind, and finally Kit Carson, the hero of countless incredible journeys who became a national figure.  <br /> The author does an excellent job of relating the lifestyle of the mountain men, their complex relationship with the Indian tribes, and their part in the fur business and he places this all in the complex scheme of American history.   When I see Robert Utley on television, I can tell that he is enthusiastic about his subject; he clearly loves the west and enjoys sharing it with the rest of us.  With its well-documented research and strong narrative, \\"A Life Wild and Perilous\\" is like sitting down around the campfire and hearing a wonderful storyteller tell a tale. <br /> <br /> <br /> <br /> <br />	2004-10-02
US	20997233	R2GX31CR3AAZWY	0071373527	922281924	100 Years of Wall Street	Books	4	2	3	N	N	The Ideal Gift for anyone who likes Business History	100 Years of Wall Street is a beautiful decade-by-decade look at the history of \\"the street.\\"  Written by the well-known business author Charles R. Geisst, it is a sumptuous black-and-white exploration of Wall Street history.  This may be best thought of as a companion volume to his other book (Wall Street: A History) as while that book concentrated on the characters, colorful and despicable, who created the financial world of today, the narrative in this book is a brief overview of the trends that occurred across a century, accompanied by a series of well-chosen photos.  There are a number of charts that supplement the well-written narrative.  If you know anyone with a deep interest in the financial markets, that engine of American commerce, this will make an ideal gift. <br />Jeffrey Morseburg <br />	2004-10-02
US	20997233	R2PUQET1UNJ77	0060929774	262974879	The Art of Scandal: The Life and Times of Isabella Stewart Gardner	Books	4	6	12	N	N	The Real Age of Elegance...and Scandal	When one has chance to visit Boston, the Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum is a unique cultural institution that should not be missed.  One of the nation's most eclectic and idiosyncratic private museums, it represents the personal vision of its namesake, Isabella Steward Gardner, a woman with the means and confidence to assemble an art collection of enormous breadth and exquisite quality.  At the same time, her wealth and influence gave her the ability to live life on her terms, despite the steady drumbeat of ugly gossip. <br /> Although I have a beautifully detailed volume on Isabella Stewart Gardner (1840-1924) and her museum Fenway Court, in my library, it was an \\"authorized\\" book, and as such that was left out of the story.  However, it is a \\"warts and all\\" book that Douglas Shand-Tucci has written despite being in sympathy with his fascinating subject.  Gardner married into wealth and she used her husband's cash to collect art - and people.  Despite her marriage into the Gardner family, who were influential Boston Brahmins, she carried on scandalous affairs and surrounded herself with gay artists and aesthetes.  Many of these relationships were ambiguous at the time for homosexuality had to remain far beneath the surface in the 19th century.  John Singer Sargent painted Mrs. Gardner and their relationship was used as the model for Eleanor Palfrey's novel \\"The Lady and the Painter.\\"   <br /> The expatraite art historian Bernard Berenson advised her on her purchases, which included Vermeer's gem-like \\"The Concert\\" and Titan's great \\"Rape of Europa.\\"  She collected some of Sergeant's major works including the massive \\"El Jaleo\\" and he painted a famous portrait of her, as did Whistler and the Swedish artist Anders Zorn. She seemed to collect almost everything including Asian art, which she successfully mixed with the European paintings when she built Fenway Court, her Venician palace close by Boston's Museum of Fine Arts, which was constructed at the turn-of-the-century.   <br /> Shand-Tucci's book is carefully researched and despite the fact that Gardner burned her letters, he seems to have sorted out the tangled web of relationships between the patroness and her friends, lovers and in turn, their relations with each other.  This is no small accomplishment, as Garnder knew almost everyone who was anyone in America and Europe. In addition to close relationships with Sargent and Berenson, she knew George Santayana, Richard Wagner, Edith Wharton, Charles Elliot Norton, Henri Matisse, Henry Adams, Henry James and William James. <br /> \\"The Art of Scandal\\" recreates as era of elegance, taste and affluence, of the long, languid decades before the hell of \\"The Great War\\" when the leading families of Europe and America began to intermix, and the treasures of Europe made their ways to our homes and museums. <br />	2004-10-02
US	20997233	R8RJKIT807VYQ	0691092702	572239568	How the Idea of Religious Toleration Came to the West	Books	4	14	16	N	N	An Exploration of an Important Topic...Especially Now	Today, Catholics and Protestants are overwhelmingly tolerant of people of other religious faiths and non-believers.  They may advocate their values - as the secularists do as well - in the liberal marketplace of ideas and criticize those who oppose them, but in the western democracies and republics, religious differences are usually settled in a courthouse.  This religious tolerance, enshrined in the American founding, was won at a tremendous price and in the era of the Reformation, both Catholics and Protestants persecuted those whose views they saw as heretical.   <br />Today, the current battle between the liberal west and the forces of Islamic fanaticism has brought the issue of religious intolerance to the front pages of the worlds newspapers and the top of news broadcasts.  So, it is a timely subject for a book like the one Perez Zagorn has written.  Historically, Islam had a tradition of tolerance for Christians and Jews who were known as \\"people of the book\\" because of their shared biblical heritage, but Sayyid Qutb and other radical Islamic thinkers have turned this idea on its head and now seek to convert or exterminate them.   <br />Zagorin takes readers back to a time when the churches of the west dedicated themselves to crushing all dissent and then introduces the reader to early advocates of tolerance who found the seeds of a more tolerant and pluralistic philosophy in the great religious texts and tradition.  It was these deep philosophical thinkers -Erasmus, Sir Thomas More, John Locke - who advanced the notion that challenge and pluralism was actually good for their religions, not simply an effective political policy than enhanced trade and diplomacy.  The most important single figure in the book is Sebastian Castellio, an early advocate of pluralism and tolerance who dueled with the Protestant reformer John Calvin, the man who was largely responsible for the burning of Michael Servetus, the controversial doctor and theologian.  Zagorin writes aboutthe origins of religious tolerance in the Netherlands, which played a vital role in the founding of some of America's colonies and the growth of tolerance here. He concludes his book with chapters on religious tolerance in England and the figures of John Locke and Pierre Bayle.  Much of the history that Zagorin writes of here has not been widely disseminated and his very readable account of the men and ideas that advanced tolerance and pluralism should be widely read <br />	2004-10-01
US	20997233	RVIBPZ9F4MSC5	0738208442	645224254	The Essential Difference: The Truth About The Male And Female Brain	Books	5	12	21	N	N	Surprise, Men and Women Are Different...	Simon Baron-Cohen is a research psychologist who advances a radical notion - that the male and female brains are fundamentally different and that these sex differences are \\"hard wired\\" rather than largely the result of environmental adaptation.  Now, this thesis - that the way men and women think is different - would not have raised an eyebrow a half-century ago, but today, as we only gradually push back the notion that gender is simply a \\"social construct\\", it is considered controversial.  Baron-Cohen is quick to assure readers that there is a broad continuum of male and female traits, but that in general, the male brain is a \\"systemizing brain,\\" adept at organizing and constructing schemes and programs while the female brain generally has a greater capacity for empathy.  While these conclusions tend to frighten feminists, who fear being stereotyped and pushed into careers that were traditionally thought of as female, the author assures us that most of us have a broad combination of male and female qualities and that he has based his findings on statistical research, anthropological evidence and the latest developments in neurological science.  In order to explain his conclusions, Baron-Cohen uses examples drawn from pop culture as well as the scientific literature.  He also uses case studies from his own clinical practice to illustrate his contentions.  The most fascinating sections of the book are his descriptions of the work that he has done with autistics and those who have Asperger's Syndrome.  It is this work that has made him conclude that the autistic brain is the most extreme example of the \\"male brain,\\" one that is capable of enormous feats of computation and organization but almost totally lacking in warmth and empathy.  \\"The Essential Difference\\" is a thoughtful and provocative book that seems to explain our behavior.  After all, this web site, with its seemingly endless cataloging and categorization of books may be an example of the \\"extreme male brain\\" at work but then, why would most librarians be female?  <br /> <br />  <br />	2004-10-01
US	20997233	R1TFUMZNMPDK1V	0812565657	259828480	Ivanhoe (Tor Classics)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The One Who Popularized Historical Fiction	Sir Walter Scott's Ivanhoe is a pioneering work of historical fiction.  Set during the Crusades, in the era after the Norman conquest of England (1066), it is the story of a disinherited knight, Wilfred of Ivanhoe, who has been cast aside by his father, Cedric of Rotherwood, because of a forbidden love between young Ivanhoe and Cederic's ward, the lovely Saxon girl Rowena.  Cederic want to re-establish Saxon rule in England and to do so, he has plotted to marry off Rowena to Athelstane, a Saxon noble of pure blood, thereby creating a legitimate Saxon ruling line.  This intimate story of forbidden love is set against the grand historical backdrop of a political drama that pits Richard the Lionhearted, who has been away on Crusade against his corrupt brother Prince John, who has been plotting to seize power with the help of treacherous nobles Waldemar, Fitzurse, Font-de-Bouef and Malvosin.  The pageantry of a medieval tournament at Ashby is the backdrop for the dramatic introduction of the character of the Disinherited Knight, supported by the Black Knight, Le Noir Faineant, who vanquish all of Prince John's favorites in combat.  The Disinherited Knight, is of course, revealed to be Ivanhoe, the hero of the Scott's epic tale.  An interesting sub plot is the story of the sensual Jewish beauty Rebecca, daughter of the merchant Isaac of York, who came to Ivanhoe's aid. In an era of rampant anti-Semitism, Sir Walter Scott drew his Jewish characters with great sympathy and Rebecca's sad story of her trial by the Knights Templar, enrichens the novel.  Ivanhoe is a beautifully written and the story takes many twists and turns to reach it's conclusion.  It's dense plot and intrigue are said to have influenced the later writings of Alexandre Dumas.  Full of fascinating characters, dark deeds, swordplay, humor, pathos and of course, a rich, romantic story of star-crossed lovers, Sir Walter Scott's Ivanhoe is mythmaking at its finest.  Jeffrey Morseburg	2004-10-01
US	20997233	R2U375VDT2XTE9	019924989X	979878165	Liberty: Incorporating Four Essays on Liberty	Books	5	22	23	N	N	A Philosopher Dedicated to Freedom	<br /> The Late Isaiah Berlin was authority on philosophy and a historian of ideas. Born in Latvia, he moved to Russia with his parents when he was six.  As an eight year-old he witnessed the May Revolution and the October Bolshevik Revolution that installed Lennin and instituted the Soviet reign of terror.  He escaped to England with his family in 1921 where he was educated at St. Paul's School and Oxford, University.  His early experience with totalitarianism colored his life's work in the world of ideas and throughout his career he was an articulate and sometimes lonely voice for liberty and the liberal, pluralistic society.  This book \\"Liberty\\" is a newly edited and expanded edition of Berlin's most famous work \\"Four Essays in Liberty.\\"  Since his death, his editor Henry Hardy had drawn together his books and essays and they have been assembled in new editions.   <br /> In \\"Liberty\\" he sets out to follow the concept of Liberty. In one of the most illuminating essays he sets out to answer the question: \\"What is Political Liberty\\" which then segues into the \\"The Birth of Greek Individualism.\\"  In \\"Two Concepts of Liberty\\" he takes western intellectuals to task for the results of the dangerous ideas that they heralded.  He cites Henrich Heine who warned us that \\"philosophical concepts in the stillness of a professor's study could destroy a civilization.\\"   In his essay \\"Historical Inevitably\\" he attacks the Marxist notion that there are inevitable stages of history, that one stage follows another as winter follows fall and he traces the path of thought in the past terrible epoch in \\"Political Ideas in the 20th Century.\\"  Each of the essays are thoughtful, trenchant and well argued.  In a time when far too many intellectuals still adhere to ideas that were the foundation of terror, Isaiah Berlin's advocacy and exploration of human freedom should find a wide audience.	2004-10-01
US	20997233	R2HKVNW8GSYQ3M	0895260883	683939245	Inside the Asylum: Why the UN  and Old Europe are Worse Than You Think	Books	4	12	16	N	N	A Short but Worthwhile Expose of the U.N.	With the intense argument over the rightness of the invasion of Iraq, Kofi Anan's recent comment about the \\"illegality\\" of the campaign and the inability of the United Nations to take positive steps to arrest the mass murder going on in Darfur, in the Sudan, the august body that sits on New York's East River is back on the front pages of the newspaper again.  Is the United Nations a force for good, a shining light of international cooperation or is it a corrupt, ineffectual enterprise that often makes the world's problems worse?   <br />Jed Babbin - a former Undersecretary of Defense in the first Bush administration - has written \\"Inside the Asylum\\" as a jeremiad, an indictment of the United Nations and its policies.  It is an articulate book, but not a long examination of the U.N. and its manifold failures, but a summary of the charges that critics have leveled at the organization for decades, but which have been amplified in recent months by the \\"Oil for Food\\" scandals which may turn out to be one of the largest financial scandals in history.  Babbin details much of what is currently known about the Oil for Food program which was designed to allow Saddam Hussein to sell oil on the market in exchange for money for that would be used for humanitarian purposes.  As it turns out, supervision was incredibly, perhaps criminally lax and the much of the money went into fresh arms purchases at a time when there was supposed to be an embargo and building more massive palace complexes.  Hussein did this by skimming money from everyone involved in the transactions and additionally; it appears that members of the French and Russian governments received oil credits as graft.  From the information that is currently available, it seems like billions of dollars were skimmed from the program while people in Iraq starved.  The sheer amount of the apparent graft also presents questions about the legitimacy of the opposition to the war from France and the desire on the part of the leadership of the United Nations with to continue the program of sanctions.  Motives must now be questioned.   <br />Babbin also illustrates how bloc voting by the most odious third world regimes skews the orientation of the United Nations.  He wonders how the vote of a nation like the Sudan, which murders its citizens and allows chattel slavery, should have the same representation as a Australia, Canada or Chile?  The author also questions the ability of the United Nations to act quickly and decisively when large number of lives is at stake as they have been in one African situation after another and its inability to put any teeth in its own resolutions like the seventeen leveled at Iraq prior to the invasion.  Babbin also makes some prescriptions, advocating a new organization with member states having to meet some minimal standards of representation and human rights.  Whether a person believes in the idea of the United Nations in an abstract sense - of well intentioned people joining hands to solve the world's ills - or not, intellectual honesty demands that we admit there are fundamental problems with the organization and we must question if it is worth saving or whether it can be replaced by some other world organization or number of regional bodies. <br />	2004-10-01
US	20997233	R25XG1IPPEDARS	0380728532	521696335	The Rise and  Fall of the American Teenager	Books	4	12	12	N	N	How the Teen Culture Came to Dominate America	<br /> Today, because of the massive American youth culture, we take the descriptive term \\"teenager\\" for granted.  Young people enter their teenager years and seem to become part of another world, children no longer, but not full participants in the adult culture of work and responsibility.  At one time, teenagers wanted to grow up rapidly, aspiring to take on the trappings of adulthood as quickly as possible, but today millions of young men and women seem dedicated to hanging on to their youth through their thirties and forties.  Because of the pervasiveness of the youth culture, we have forgotten that the concept of a teenager is a social development and a relatively recent one.  The idea of the teenager only occurred as America began to achieve relative affluence, when parents - whether farmers or shopkeepers - could afford to have their offspring attend school for a longer time.  As these young people began to attend secondary school - and it was only in the 1920's when more than half of our children were educated through high school - and to have more leisure time, the term \\"teenager\\" was coined.  It was this combination of time and affluence that made the teenager a young consumer to be marketed to.  In \\"The Rise and Fall of the American Teenager\\" Thomas Hine shows the evolution of the concept of the teenager and the history of American youth culture.  He is a professional journalist who writes with a strong narrative drive.  He has an eye for detail and is particularly adept at choosing interesting subjects for his books and articles.  By following young adults throughout American history, he has shown a light on a subject that has not been illuminated in the same way before.   <br />	2004-10-01
US	20997233	R1J5KM1YCXJMU7	0865652333	6818424	Napoleon: The Immortal Emperor	Books	5	18	20	N	N	A Sumptous, Beautifully Crafted Visual Guide to Naploen	\\"Napoleon: The Immortal Emperor\\" is a sumptuous exploration of the life and legacy of the French Emperor.  This is not a conventional biography, of which there are many, but a thematic exploration of Napoleon through images with explanatory text.  While I lost whatever boyhood infatuation I had with Napoleon and learned to view him in the context of the terrible costs inflicted on the French nation and their unfortunate opponents in his long wars of conquest, an epoch was named for him and the arts reflected the glory he achieved.  Even the decorative arts were inspired by his conquest and \\"Empire Style\\" with echoes of the Near East he conquered was born.  Napoleon lived at a time when France was the artistic capital of the world and artists like Jacques Louis David, Baron Gros and Anne-Louise Girodet immortalized him.  After his death, in a nation that never again stood astride Europe in the same way, the cult of Bonaparte lived on.  Later in the 19th Century, the great military artists of France - Ernst Messionier and Edouard Detaille - continued to paint Napoleon and his soldiers.  When his grandson, Napoleon III was the French autocrat, the Empire style was revived and paintings of Napleon's days of glory were purchased for the state. Finally, in the 20th Century he became the subject for countless films and this legacy is given the same visual exploration in the volume. This vivid exploration of Napoleon - the man and the myth - is written by Gerald Gengembre who is a professor of French literature at the University of Caen in Normandy.  He has assembled several hundred illustrations, each annotated with relevant detail so that he reveals each facet of the man and history's interpretation of him.  This large book will be of interest not only to those with a fascination with Napoleon and his time, but to those with an interest in beautifully crafted paintings and French culture.	2004-10-01
US	20997233	R1ITMGWSD9UWZR	1893554864	829421208	The Rape of the Masters: How Political Correctness Sabotages Art	Books	4	23	27	N	N	Rage against Looking at art through a P.C. Prism...	This book, which was an unexpected gift from a client, was a pleasant surprise!  Roger Kimball is a conservative social and cultural critic as well as a man who is interested in the history of ideas and their consequences.  His elegantly written essays have appeared in the pages of the New Criterion and other publications for decades.  In this well crafted and conside book he attacks the infliction of new types of criticism on the practice of art history that has occurred over the past several decades.  Today, a work of art is rarely seen as a painting or work of sculpture to be judged on its artistic merits and as part of its own time.  Instead, it is seen through a prism - be it feminism, colonialism, racism, gay studies or a trendy French literary theory.  All too many critics and art historians bring their agenda to the museum or gallery and the art is made to fit their ideology or political agenda.   <br />Kimball has fun relating some of the most incredible interpretations of famous works of art and cites a critic's idea that Peter Paul Rubens' \\"Drunken Silenus\\" is actually an allegory to anal rape or that Courbet's large, grandiose hunting scenes - which anyone who has visited a major French museum can tell you have a long tradition in French and European painting - really relate a \\"a castration anxiety.\\"  Unfortunately, the author has many other examples of how radical politics and social theory have invaded art.   <br />For the millions of Americans who, in the process of their matriculation, simply attended a survey course or two in art history, this book will be an eye opener. Because of the silly, jargon-filled reviews in the major newspapers, millions of Americans gave up reading about the arts years ago and they will now be able to see why the visual arts no longer resonate with so many viewers.  For those of us who are involved in the arts and have had an intimate view of the destructiveness of the ideas that Kimball challenges, this book is a well-written expression of what we have long felt.  Jeffrey Morseburg <br />	2004-10-01
US	20997233	R14A5KVRK9MSQT	0670031518	879167194	The Blank Slate: The Modern Denial of Human Nature	Books	4	8	12	N	N	A Dramatic New Entry in the Nature vs. Nurture Debate	The idea that there are innate patterns of thinking, a hard-wired human nature that has evolved over the eons is often seen as threatening - even dangerous - so any discussion of the subject is usually controversial.  Steven Pinker is a Canadian psychologist who teaches at M.I.T. and in contrast to many other academics, he enjoys sharing his knowledge and writes in a calm, lucid manner that is remarkably free of jargon.  In recent years he has written extensively on the subject of cognition and both his book \\"The Language Instinct\\" on language acquisition and \\"How the Mind Works\\" which deals with behavioral science, have been well received.  \\"The Blank Slate\\" is more controversial because it refutes the concept that our characters are overwhelmingly shaped by their environment, which has been popular again in recent decades.  \\"The Blank Slate\\" draws on recent research in behavioral genetics, neuroscience, cognitive science and the controversial field of evolutionary psychology.  Pinker, who is a true polymath, uses examples drawn from literature and pop culture to illustrate the science to show that there is a heritable and universal structure to the mind but with plenty of opportunity for individual and cultural variance.  Throughout the narrative, he debunks many of hoary old theories that have been accepted as conventional wisdom.  His conclusions is a threat to the left, who have adhered to the blank slate thesis because the immutability of human nature means that utopian social schemes are destined to fail in the face of an imperfectable man.  The right worries that inherited traits may be used to absolve criminals of responsibility.  Piker does not feel that these worries are valid.  Instead, he argues that an understanding of our biology will compliment our human values rather than threaten them.  Because of the breadth of the subjects that Pinker covers - gender, equality, cultural values, politics, the arts - a specialist may challenge some of his conclusions or oversimplifications, but in general, the book is a welcome and well through addition to the endless nature versus nurture debate.  Jeffrey Morseburg <br /> <br /> <br />  <br />	2004-10-01
US	20997233	R38ZJYP8EY43W5	0807803375	220779871	I Rode with Stonewall	Books	5	20	21	N	N	Classic Memoir of the Civil War	\\"I Rode with Stonewall\\" is one of the finest personal narratives of the Civil War, America's most decisive and costly conflict.  The author, Henry Kyd Douglas, began writing this memoir soon after the conclusion of the war, but put it aside for more than thirty years while he practiced law and raised a family.  At his death, his book about the war had not been edited and it wasn't until a descendent discovered the transcript and found a publisher that it was finally released in 1940, on the even of another great martial struggle.  I purchased my first copy on a visit to the Fredericksburg battlefield more than twenty years ago and after reading most of it on a flight back from Washington D.C. to California, left it on the plane and in the days before the Internet, it was hard to secure another.  Fortunately, on another tour of Civil War battlefields and museums, I managed to bring a copy back for my library - it's that memorable a book.  Henry Kyd Douglas was a native of Maryland and a dashing young officer who served on Stonewall Jackson's staff in the early stages of the Civil War.  And, like many other Confederate officers and enlisted men, he was devoted to the stern, brilliant artilleryman.  Douglas later had a field command and despite being wounded no less than six times, he survived four years of brutal war.  Unfortunately, other young heroes of the Confederacy, friends of Douglas like John Pegram, Sandy Pendleton and John Pelham did not.  Douglas was handsome, dashing, brave and outgoing and because of these qualities, he was popular with officers on both sides in the war and a favorite of the Southern belles.  His account is peppered with fond encounters, but always chivalrous, he abbreviates the names of the women he flirted with.  Although the book is full of death, of lives lost in the ill-fated cause of the Confederacy and the abominable institution of slavery, it also shows that there was an idealistic and romantic side to the war.  Even in the service of a bad cause, the terrible conflict between North and South brought out the deeper qualities of the men that served.    Jeffrey Morseburg	2004-10-01
US	20997233	R2981VXPL85SDJ	0714837768	401178543	Victorian Painting	Books	5	17	18	N	N	Sumptous, Beautifully Illustrated and Well-Written	Although it has been much maligned by critics and art historians, the Victorian period was actually a rich and dynamic era in the arts.  Modern art historians have been brought up with the notion that the concept of a narrative in a painting - essentially a painting that tells a story - is either mere illustration or \\"kitsch.\\"  Once this view of painting became the conventional wisdom early in the last century, Victorian Art, so much of which was narrative, was relegated to the basements of museums and even became an object of ridicule.  In art history classes around the world, paintings of the Victorian era, whether by Leighton in England or Bouguereau in France, were used as a foil for the Impressionists and early Modern movements.   The Victorian era was a sentimental time and there is a fine line between a romantic sentimentality and being overly sweet or saccharine and there were many times when Victorian painters vaulted over that line.  However, like any other art form, you only become an effective and intelligent critic of a genre or period when you know it well. And, if your art history courses have taught you to dismiss it out of hand, you will simply be pathologically unable to make intelligent distinctions or draw proper conclusions.   <br /> Lionel Lambourne's book is a comprehensive survey of Victorian Art.  It is a massive volume that is beautifully illustrated with exceptionally good plates.  All too many art books suffer from poor color, clearly drawn from poor transparencies or scans, but this book doesn't stint on the number or quality of the illustrations, so it will be popular with those who simply want to enjoy the images as well as those who have the time to read the text.  The author, who is the head of the paintings department at the Victoria and Albert Museum in London, clearly knows his subject well and he has broken the long Victorian era down into logical chapters, beginning with a survey of the \\"Victorian Art Establishment\\" and then diving the Victorian period by subject and movement rather than simple chronology. He covers all the major movements such as \\"The Frailer Sex and the Fallen Woman,\\" \\"The Pre-Raphaelites,\\" \\"Aesthetes and Symbolists,\\" and \\"Childhood and Sentiment.\\"   <br />The book is not devoted solely to the artists who lived in Great Britain but also includes painters from the British colonies and former colonies in order to show the connections between their art and that of England.  Without descending into the jargon that is too frequently relied upon by art historians, Lambourne is scholarly, providing insight into the influences and motivations of the Victorian artists and then explaining why Whsitler and the Aesthetes rebelled against the prevailing style. Victorian painting has remained popular with artists and a segment of the public precisely because of some of the qualities that repell many art historians  - the high level of craftsmanship, sentimentality, the narrative drive so common to the era and the moral element that is part of many paintings from the epoch - but in recent years, more and more exhibitions have been mounted and new books seem to come out each fortnight.  Now that Victorian Art has regained some of its lost luster and popularity, it deserves to have an elegant book like Lionel Lambourne's \\"Victorian Painting\\" that gives readers an overview of a rich artistic epoch.  <br />	2004-10-01
US	20997233	RAB71O32HBLNI	067168390X	34918879	Lonesome Dove	Books	5	72	82	N	N	A Classic and Unforgetable Work of Western Fiction	Lonesome Dove is a modern classic.  Winner of the Pulitzer Prize for fiction, the popularity of this book, the acclaim it has received and the cult status it has achieved with readers has tended to overshadow some of Larry McMurtry's other work and the attention to this one book has even become tiresome to the curmudgeonly Texas author.   However, as a frequent reader of the prolific writer's fiction, I can attest to the fact that it is McMurtry's finest book and the one that gave readers his most memorable characters - the talkative, colorful Gus McCrae and the taciturn, deliberate Woodrow Call - aging former Texas Rangers who run a down-at-the-heels ranch near the Mexican border that they subsidize with cattle stolen on nocturnal raids across the border. The novel is about an epic cattle drive all the way from southern Texas to Montana.  This famous \\"long drive\\" was actually a rare occurrence in the historic west as the expansion of the railroad system made long cattle drives unnecessary.  While most cowboys who lived in the era of the cattle drives - which were driven by economic necessity in the years following the Civil War when there was a large market for beef in the north than could only be filled by the millions of head of cattle that had been left to breed on Texas pastures during the long years of conflict - went on a drive or two from Texas to Kansas as a rite of passage, a drive from the southern border of the country to its northern extreme would have been truly epic.  In Lonesome Dove the drovers experience and overcome rainstorms and stampedes, treacherous crossings of swollen rivers, disloyal comrades, raiding Indians and a deviant, sadistic half-breed killer who stalks the cowboys and their retinue. While the leading characters, cantankerous old comrades, are the center of the story, the secondary figures in the drama are also beautifully written - Newt, Call's young son who is struggling to become a man, Lorena, the tenderhearted and beautiful young \\"soiled dove\\" and Jake, the charming former Ranger undone by his appetites.  In contrast to some of McMurtry's other works, while death is always an uninvited guest, the drama is also leavened by a good dose of humor, much of it coming from a pair of snake eating Blue Pigs who become the novel's comic relief.  And, there are plenty of violent ends as the author does not mind sacrificing his men and women to the needs of the fast-advancing plot and giving his readers an emotional tug.  While cowboy work was hot, dirty and low paying work, revisionists forget that there was a romantic beauty to life on horseback, long nights of comradeship and a pride that cowhands took in doing a difficult job well.  Larry McMurtry understands the incredible history of the American West and with its desolate beauty, unabashed romanticism and moments of stark terror, Lonesome Dove is an elegy to the waning days of the open range when bold men and strong women tried to settle the Great Plains. <br /> <br />	2004-10-01
US	20997233	R2TAJCEISD89WX	0811700712	505013881	Vietnam Order of Battle: A Complete Illustrated Reference to U.S. Army Combat and Support Forces in Vietnam 1961-1973 (Stackpole Military Classics)	Books	4	31	31	N	N	All Reference but Invaluable for the Researcher	Shelby Stanton's book \\"Vietnam: Order of Battle\\" is a recent re-issue of a classic reference text that is essential for anyone who is researching America's long, troubled war in Southeast Asia.  The book does not have a narrative, or an overview of the war, it is simply a well-researched and comrehensive breakdown of facts, the engagements that the United States and its allies fought, the organization and insignia of the units that serves in Vietnam, the fixed wing aircraft, the ubiquitous helicopters, small arms, heavy weapons, armor that were used, the deployments and casualties, military terms and finally, a very useful series of maps of the conflict.  Shelby Stanton is an authority on the War in Vietnam and has authored many books on the subject and this large coffee-table volume is the product of an unusually dedicated and indefatigable researcher.	2004-10-01
US	20997233	RSTWKR9HEBTT8	0060541644	59964273	A Problem from Hell: America and the Age of Genocide	Books	4	6	9	N	N	A Brutal Problem and the U.N. Deliberates...	With the situation that is now happening in Darfur - Sudanese troops and militias are attacking indigenous tribes, killing men, women and children and burning their villages to the ground, while the United Nations dithers - this recent book has become timely again.  \\"A Problem From Hell\\" is an angry but well-written book. The author, Samantha Power, was foreign correspondent who covered the war in Bosnia and Kosovo, where the Serbians sought to cleanse the countryside of its Moslem citizens, while the United Nations, the United States and NATO debated.   This book was borne out of her anger and frustration at the \\"civilized world\\" and its inability to do something to stop genocide, an operation of ethnic cleansing that everyone knew was happening.  Power has gone back to the Armenian Genocide, where more than a million Armenians perished at the hands of the Turks, inspired by how little had been said or done about the Armenian Genocide and Diaspora, Hitler and his minions set out to rid the continent of Jews.  She also writes about the Pol Pot's Maoist massacre of his citizens, Hussein's gassing and murder of the Kurds.  Power is frustrated by the inability of the United Nations and the United Nations to stop the murder.  However, one of the difficulties is that the United Nations was designed to confront acts of aggression between countries, not the leaders of a sovereign nation eliminating it's own population.  Additionally, the United States is made up with a vast number of nations, including the world's most despotic regimes and each nation has it's own agenda.  Just overcoming the inertia of such a bureaucracy is a daunting prospect.  So, I don't think the problem of genocide can or will be solved - when it is politically and militarily realistic to do so - by the United Nations.  Unfortunately it will probably take unilateral action by the United States or a small coalition in order to do more than count the bodies and this doesn't sit well with the internationalists.  Samantha Power's book shows that man's inhumanity to man is and will always be a persistent theme, but that someone has to take a lead at stopping the industrialized massacre of entire populations.   <br /> <br /> <br />	2004-10-01
US	20997233	R3RW172U8DSP4O	0684840057	505830594	Radical Son: A Generational Odyssey	Books	5	19	23	N	N	Exceptionally Truthful Examination of a Tumultous Time...	\\"Radical Son\\" is the well-written and brutally frank story of a journey - a personal and political journey through the tumultuous 1960's and the political and cultural conflicts of the 1980's and 1990's.  The author, David Horowitz, grew up in the 1940's and 1950's as a \\"red diaper baby.\\" His parents posed as \\"progressives\\" which then - as now - meant those who were left of center with a socialistic tilt.  However, they were actually committed communists who remained underground and supported the Soviet Union.  Living a hermitically sealed life where everything was seen through the prism of their \\"scientific\\" religion, which was Stalinist-tinted Marxism, the Horowitz, parents and children, ended up as aliens in the land of their birth.  Life as a \\"red diaper baby\\" seemed to be an ascetic, rather humorless existence as almost everything in these communist families was sublimated to the struggle.  For years, his parents waited for the moment when they would be activated by the \\"party\\" (which we now know received its marching orders from Moscow) for some vital task.  These communists were not \\"progressive\\" as they did not want to take mincing steps to create a more just society through the redistribution of wealth, but sought a revolution where private property would be abolished and everything would at last be set right by the party.   <br /> By the time that David Horowitz was ready to go off to college, Khrushchev had spoken and the truth about the Stalinist terror became undeniable.  In the book he describes how communist marriages broke up and friendships ended when one person lost the faith while another stayed true to Stalin, the strong leader and creator of the \\"New Man\\" that they had worked for.  So, at the dawn of the 1960's, Horowitz became part of the nascent \\"New Left\\" which consisted of young radicals who sought revolt, though not openly at first, but who wanted to leave the old Stalinist baggage behind.  Some of the New Left were socialists who had the goal of creating a social democracy in the United States, but they were outnumbered by the radicals, who were led by the charismatic Tom Hayden.   <br />After marriage and years of education at Columbia and Berkley, Horowitz, who always had his doubts about the elements of the communist program, moved to London and devoted himself to writing, in an attempt to paper over the inconsistencies in the work of Marx and Engels and to put a human face on the radical program. Returning to Berkley, he wrote for Ramparts, the voice of the New Left and immersed himself in the radical politics and the anti-war movements and was intimately involved in the alliance between the New Left and the Black Panthers.  To many members of the New Left, there was a thrill, a whiff of danger that drew them to the Panthers like a moth to a flame. While virtually all of the Black Panthers were actually street thugs, opportunists who wore black leather and berets, their veneer of radical posturing made them romantic revolutionaries in the eyes of the left who had only contempt for Marlin Luther King and the Civil Rights leaders who actually accomplished something meaningful.  When a secretary that Horowitz had recommended to the Panther was murdered - in a crime that has never been fully solved - he began to question many of the associations that he had made and the conclusions that he had reached.   <br />In the aftermath of America's ignominious withdrawal from Vietnam, the New Left treated the massacres, reprisals and repression that followed with indifference or excused them away.  Gradually, over these issues and the inconsistencies and contradictions of the left, Horowitz began to question his worldview and his values and gradually he and his best friend and frequent co-author Peter Collier, began to move across the political spectrum.  Seeing that the freedoms promised by the communists never seemed to come and that life, despite its difficulties and injustices, was better and more prosperous for minorities in the United States, he eventually became a committed conservative.  As this change in political orientation happened, Horowitz lost his old comrades in the New Left who had not lost the faith and looked upon him as a turncoat.  <br />  Instead of the concept of \\"economic justice\\" as the radical redistribution of wealth is euphemistically referred to on the left as his core belief, he began to see human freedom as the way to unlock human potential.  Horowitz became an advocate of free minds, open markets and a color-blind society, an imperfect but functioning meritocracy, where opportunity would allow those whose ancestors had suffered historic injustices to succeed.  He began to host \\"Second Thoughts Conferences\\" where be brought the old radicals together to question the legacy of the 1960's. By the 1990's, Horowitz was writing emphatically and prolifically about what he saw as the new injustices, the bias against conservatives or libertarians in the media and most of all, in academia.   Ever the provocateur, he began to challenge campus speech codes - both legally and with his angry rhetoric - which have been used at times to silence debate and enforce a political orthodoxy on the campuses.  This is where David Horowitz stands today, as the bete noir of the campus radical that he once was.  \\"Fortunate Son\\" is a well-written memoir that spares no one, least of all the author himself.  It is a lacerating, brutally frank autobiography that vividly coveys how we got from here to there and to paraphrase a song we all recall, \\"what a long strange trip it's been.\\"	2004-10-01
US	20997233	R6WHY446PJ56Z	0803297092	297861232	A Dynasty of Western Outlaws	Books	4	7	7	N	N	The Roots of Crime in the Old West	The University of Nebraska Press is one of my favorite collegiate publishers. Through its Bison Books imprint, it has published important works on the history of the American West for decades.  It has reprinted some of the most essential books on the old west that are in the public domain for new generations of readers.  A Dynasty of Outlaws is a fascinating study of the spread of evil and outlawyerly in the historic west.   While generations of newspapermen, screenwriters and novelists have glorified and romanticized the outlaw; in reality they were men - and occasionally women - who, like all criminals, preyed on their neighbors.  The banks that they robbed were not the multi-nationals of today, but small local businesses that held the savings of the merchants, farmers and ranchers.  While large corporations owned the trains that they held up, the money that was carried in them was not, nor were the intimate belongings of the citizens that the highwayman held up and traumatized.  Paul Wellman (1898-1966) wrote is book which was first published in 1966 and his fascinating thesis is that crime has a \\"contagious nature\\" and he traces the criminal gangs of the old west back to the James-Younger gang and the training that they received from the infamous Civil War criminal William C. Quantrill.  He then connects the bloody family tree of criminal gangs to the Dalton, Doolin and Belle Starr gangs that evolved from them. Wellman follows this association of criminality into this century when bank robbery re-emerged again.  \\"A Dynasty of Western Outlaws\\" is not only a rich mine of western lore but an important view into the nature of criminality.  Jeffrey Morseburg	2004-10-01
US	20997233	R9DEP6FJ0MT0I	0688150322	425865070	Caravaggio: A Passionate Life	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Brillant Concise Biography	It is no secret among my friends that Michelangelo Merisi da Carvaggio is among my favorite painters.  Because Caravaggio's paintings have a narrative quality, an almost universal appeal and real drama, they have long spoken to me.  When the National Gallery of Ireland loaned its newly discovered Caravaggio - one of the best and notably, one that hasn't suffered at the hands of overzealous restorers of past centuries - to our own National Gallery of Art, I flew to Washington to see it.  Even hanging in the gallery of Baroque masterpieces, it stood out as a sublime work of art. Like his paintings, Caravaggio's life was a study in contrasts.  While he painted soaring religious masterpieces, he lived his life in the gutter, fighting, killing, gambling and whoring.  So, enjoying his work as much as I do, it is with pleasure that I share a elegantly crafted, well-written little monograph titled \\"Caravaggio: A Passionate Life.\\"  The author, Desmond Seward, is not an art historian but a historian of the Middle Ages and because of the number of art historians with an agenda; this is almost certainly a good thing...instead of being filled with jargon or far fetched theories, he has provided readers with a consise, well-written monograph on a epoch creating artist!	2004-10-01
US	20997233	R1X73WQFQEJPNX	0195023919	942454040	America in Vietnam: Illusion, Myth and Reality	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Fair Minded Examination of a Divisive War	Guenther Lew's \\"America in Vietnam\\" is a fair, even-handed and succinct single volume history of our long, tortured history in Vietnam, from America's reluctant support of the French in the early 1950's to the final, ignominious withdrawal from Saigon in 1975, after Congress pulled the rug out from under South Vietnam when it suspended all funding.  Lew's book has the benefit of being written several years after the war ended, so it has the perspective that much of the earlier writing - on both sides of the issue - lacked.  Additionally, the author wrote as an academic, not a participant or partisan in the debate, so his view was not colored by the drama of personal experience.  Lewy is a judicious writer who carefully and dispassionately weighs the evidence and then draws conclusions.  He covers all the controversial aspects of the war - the strategic calculus that led to our initial involvement in the 1950's and the escalation in the 1960's, the manner and methods that the United States used to fight the war, the specter of criminality on part of American soldiers and their communist adversaries and issue of the justness of the war.  In about five-hundred pages, Guenther Lewy provides the reader with a well-written synthesis of the many streams of intelligence that were available to a diligent and honest researcher in the 1970's.  Despite its age, this is a classic account of one of the most divisive events in American history.	2004-10-01
US	20997233	R1GHJVJP4ESNL5	0671001167	206100439	Dead Man's Walk (Lonesome Dove)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	If You Love McMurtry, You'll Want to Read This But ...	Dead Man's Walk is a prequel to the Larry McMurtry's masterwork, Lonesome Dove.  Written years after the first book was released, it introduces the unforgettable characters Gus McCrae, the talkative and energetic Texas Ranger and his strong and silent best friend, Woodrow Call as young men, decades before the events depicted in Lonesome Dove.  This novel - like many of the McMurtry's books - is about a journey, as the young Rangers join an ill-fated expedition of adventurers who set out to conquer Santa Fe and the Mexican province of New Mexico.  For the \\"green\\" young Rangers it is a journey of maturation and self-discovery.  As they experience all manner of calamities and face abject terror, they discover their qualities and desires and the bonds of friendship that make men risk their lives and die for each other. And, thanks to the mythic character Buffalo Hump, a Comanche chief, there is plenty of death, horrible gruesome deaths.  McMurtry does not sugarcoat his American Indians or stint on the bloodletting.  The Comanches are seen as omnipotent and invincible and perhaps too imposing an enemy as the white settlers and their soldiers did ultimately vanquish them.  Call, McCrae and the rag-tag group of miscreants and adventurers are faced with all manner of obstacles and the arid, seemingly endless Texas plains is a treacherous character in itself, a barren place where men venture at their peril and die badly.  One of the great strengths of McMurtry's books is to inculcate a sense of place in the viewer, a feeling of what the desolate places in our country would have felt like to a man on horseback or on foot a century ago.  Storms, flash floods, raging rivers and tornados stalk the characters like its implacable, inscrutable native inhabitants.  Then, when they reach New Mexico the expedition is defeated by the Mexicans troops who visit their own kind of cruelty on the Texans, one that was inherited from the Spanish.  Although the book is populated with fascinating characters, the death that is visited upon them is so bizarre and relentless that it eventually loses its power to shock and becomes routine.  The body count is just too exaggerated.  However, since millions of readers have discovered Lonesome Dove, many of them will want to learn the back-story of McCrae, Call and the events that shaped their memorable characters. <br /> <br /> <br /> <br /> <br />	2004-10-01
US	20997233	RGA6QN7NXUV2Y	0060974680	359859252	Europe: A History	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Excellent Conside History of European Civilization	Every serious reader can use a panoramic single-volume history of Europe and its civilization.  Norman Davies' Europe: A History is absolutely sweeping in its scope, taking the reader from the Ice Age to the present day.  This book is beautifully written and despite the enormous ground that it covers, it maintains a strong narrative drive. Norman Davies is erudite and incredibly well read and each page bristles with interesting facts and despite the necessity of compressing so much history into thirteen hundred pages, there is a surprising amount of detail.  Like all good synthesizers, he has an eye for the telling anecdote, the little vignette that contributes to the narrative.  Davies' work has hundreds of such asides and his work is full of triumph and pathos, irony and humor - as it is the story of man and Western Civilization.  There are plenty of well-written sidebars that are short dissertations on historical figures, philosophical concepts, laws or wars, issues that may have distracted from the narrative, but that serve to illuminate the text.  Overall, Europe: A History is an exceptional work of brevity and compression. While few of us will read it from cover to cover, it's of great use for those of us who want  a single volume to refer to, to understand what an exceptional scholar feels is most important about historical events and epochs.	2004-10-01
US	20997233	RDMGT43CU33TE	1594290350	305420055	Voices of Terror: Manifestos, Writings and Manuals of Al Qaeda, Hamas, and other Terrorists from around the World and Throughout the Ages	Books	4	22	25	N	N	If you want to know what we are up against...	\\"Voices of Terror\\" is an important book.  It does not have a narrative, simply some introductory and explanatory text to tie things together as it is simply a reference for those who wish to study the history, present state and future of terrorism.  Assembled by Walter Laquer, who has a long background as a security and foreign policy, an expert with a deep knowledge of the Middle East, it is a well researched and selective compendium of written texts and manifestos that have justified and advanced the cause of political assassination and terrorism.  First of all, Laquer correctly criticizes the use of the phrase \\"War on Terror\\" as he like others reminds us that terror is a means, a strategy that different groups with different agendas use, but it is not an ideology. Perhaps the Bush Administration is hesitant about declaring war on \\"Islamic Radicalism\\" or \\"Islamic Terror.\\"  The series of documents begin in the classical era with the justifications for tyrannicide and then move into the Enlightenment and era of the early political revolutions with writings from France and then 19th century radical tracts from Russia, there is then a section on 20th century terror with manifestoes from the Irish Republican movement, the Palestinian terrorists, our home grown Weather Underground and Europe's Red Army Faction, both of whom resorted to terror.  Laquer includes interpretations of terrorism from Goldman, Marx, Lenin and Trotsky. Part Two is a series of four sections devoted to guerrilla war from the 19th century to the present day.  The final component of the book, Part Three, is devoted to the \\"Origins of 21st Century Terrorism\\" and it includes the religious justifications from many of the major Islamic intellectuals who have written in an effort to normalize the use of terrorism.  Unfortunately, they have succeeded all too well. The final section of Part Three is another series of manifestoes from groups as disparate as the Tamil Tigers, The Red Brigade and Jemaah Islamiyah in Southeast Asia.  This book is truly vital reading as it is important to realize that there is an ideology behind those who stalk innocent men, women and children in New York, in Spain or Iraq. There has to be elaborate justifications to convince so many to commit he most heinous murders - and there are.  To know what type of threat we face, we must understand what motivates those who threaten us and \\"Voices of Terror\\" is a stark look into the heart of the terrorist movements.   <br />Jeffrey Morseburg   <br />	2004-10-01
US	20997233	R24HIKUOMDUFSE	0393313719	470267664	The Revolt of the Elites and the Betrayal of Democracy	Books	4	60	60	N	N	A Modern Reply to Ortega y Gasset	Christopher Lasch (1932-1994) was a historian and penetrating social critic. In his articles, essays and books, he challenged everyone - modern liberals and conservatives as well as the leftist and academic elite.  While one did not have to agree with his conclusions, he was a man who always asked questions that needed to be answered, and raised issues that needed to be confronted.  Politically, Lasch could probably be best described as a New Deal liberal, for he was very suspicious of both unfettered consumer capitalism and the rise of the New Left, whose goals and views he felt were in direct opposition to American values.  He could also be described as a \\"thoughtful declinist\\" but one who always held out hope for the future.<br /><br /> In this book, Lasch's the last one published during the author's lifetime, he argued that America was not in danger from the \\"Revolt of the Masses\\" which was the title of Jose Ortega y Gasset's landmark book which was written in 1932, in the wake of the Bolshevik Revolution and the rise of Fascism, but that we are threatened by a \\"Revolt of the Elites.\\"  In 1994, Lasch had come to believe that the economic and cultural elite of the United States, who historically has insured the continuity of a culture, had lost faith in the traditional values that had animated and organized our culture since its inception.  He saw a threat to the continuation of western civilization was not a mass revolt as envisioned by the pro-communist New Left of the 1960's, but a rejection of its liberal and pluralistic values by the educated elite that run its institutions and educate its children.  Lasch's last question was an important one: can a society survive when a significant portion of its elite have forsaken its founding principles?	2004-10-01
US	20997233	R2AAW6GWMKGH6K	0807820202	836372831	In the Hands of Providence: Joshua L. Chamberlain and the American Civil War	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Well Researched Look at a Major Civil War Figure	Joshua Lawrence Chamberlain was the epitome of the American citizen-soldier.  Since the birth of the republic, American soldiers have left home and hearth to serve the nation and many of them have come home physically shattered and haunted by what they have seen while still others have not come home at all.  Thrown into the breech, some of the citizen solders found they did not have the fortitude for what was asked of them while many others have excelled, performing better than graduates of West Point or Annapolis, America's most prestigious military academies.  Joshua Lawrence Chamberlain was a citizen soldier who became a great hero of the Civil War, a man who met challenge after challenge and became a great leader of men and afterward, the course of his life was forever altered.  An academically inclined young man, Chamberlain left Bowdin College and his studies and teaching in theology to accept a lieutenant colonel's commission in the 20th Maine Volunteer Infantry Regiment.  The modest young professor took part in most of the important battles of the North's Army of the Potomac.  He was a participant in the Battle of Antietam, still the bloodiest single day in American history.  Today, we can walk the battlefield off Sharpsburg Pike, in rural Maryland and see \\"Burnside's Bridge and the cornfields where so many men fell and get some small measure of what men like Chamberlain went through.  We can also visit the battlefield at Fredericksburg and see the heights that he and his 20th Maine and the Union Army tried to take in bloody frontal assaults into the teeth of Confederate guns and under the pounding of their artillery on the hills.  Today Chamberlain's comrades - as well as the fallen Confederate troops - are buried on the commanding heights they failed to take, one of the Civil War's bitter ironies.  Colonel Chamberlain then immortalized himself at Gettysburg's Little Round Top where he anchored the Union left, repelling assault after assault and winning theday by leading a charge down the slope that broke the Rebel troops.  He was given a general's star by General Grant at Petersburg and was honored to receive the Confederate surrender at Appomattox.  His heroism and leadership qualities helped him win the Governorship of Maine no less than four times, after which he retired to the Presidency of Bowdin College, his alma mater.  Alice Trulock who wrote this book, was not a professional writer and after her retirement from civic affairs, this book took her ten years of careful research, writing and rewriting to complete.  She based her work on a great deal of new research and handles the account of infantry combat beautifully. Unfortunately, Trulock died before the book was released and so she wasn't able to accept the accolades that were due to her for such a well-written and moving biography of an emblematic Civil War figure.	2004-10-01
US	20997233	R2QBLU6GTPC50N	0393313026	381513257	The Enlightenment: The Rise of Modern Paganism (Vol. 1) (Enlightenment an Interpretation) (v. 1)	Books	5	110	113	N	N	An Erudite Synthesis of the Enlightenment	<br /> Peter Gay is an important intellectual historian and in his lengthy work \\"The Enlightenment: The Rise of Modern Paganism\\" he summarizes the ideas of the great philosophers and how they changed the world.  This book is a work of great erudition, of synthesis and he begins with the relationship between the philosophers of the 18th century and those of the classical period.  The philosophers of the Enlightenment, active in the late seventeenth through the middle of the eighteenth century, had an affection for the Greek and Roman era, but felt the recent discoveries in science, the search for empirical fact, had allowed their own era to supercede the work of the great classical philosophers. <br /> While the classicists inspired the philosophers of the Enlightenment, theis new breed of thinkers were generally contemptuous of religion and they sought to confront, to challenge and to overturn the philosophical concepts of the Hebrew and Christian thinkers who they viewed as their rhetorical adversaries in the battle beaten reason and faith.   <br /> Gay is an engaging writer with a gift for synthesizing a raft of material.  Here he neatly summarizes the philosophical historians work: \\"...the philosophes wrote history with rage and with partisanship, and their very passion allowed them to penetrate into regions hitherto inaccessible to historical explorers.  Yet it also made them condescending and oddly parochial: their sense of the past merged all too readily with their sense of the present.\\"  Although the philosophes view of history was critical, pessimistic,  they saw the world \\"divided between ascetic superstitious enemies of the flesh, and men who affirmed life, the body, knowledge, and generosity; between mythmakers and realists, priests and philosophers.\\"  <br /> Gay's book neatly depicts an age, the conflicts between enlightenment thinkers and the past, their areas of agreement and disagreement and, their battles with the weakened Christianity of the day.He points out how te philosophers used the scholarship and erudition of the Catholic orders against them.  \\"The Enlightenment\\" is not a history of philosophy, summarizing the work of each major philosopher, but a history of the way that the ideas and the debate developed in the period.  In this volume, he writes of Voltaire, Hume, Smith, Bentham, Gibbon, Diderot, Montsequieu, Lessing, Locke, Holbach, Rousseau and finally, Jefferson and Franklin, intertwining them in a consistent narrative.  He concludes the book with a helpful bibliographical essay which will help point those of us who want to do further reading in the right direction.  Elegantly written, in clear, crisp prose, \\"The Enlightenment\\" is a detailed and nuanced account of the men and ideas that gave us the gift - and curse - of modernity. <br />	2004-10-01
US	20997233	R3R9HP70PM3EE1	0374204772	370743267	Ultimate Fitness: The Quest for Truth about Health and Exercise	Books	4	17	22	N	N	Great Lockeroom Reading...	Gina Kolata's recent book \\"Ultimate Fitness\\" was was my reading material for a number of weeks while I warmed up on a stationary bike at the gym this past winter.  I have long read the author's columns on science, health and fitness in the pages of the New York Times and found her to be an interesting, questioning writer and her columns are often thought provoking.  In \\"Ultimate Fitness\\" she attempts to answer many of the questions that the average reader has about the pursuit of fitness?  How much exercise do we need to be healthy?  Many of us have witnessed people year after year in the gym who seem to make little progress.  Are there people who simply don't get fit?  Those of us who have spent time coaching and who have analytical minds have long questioned the oft-repeated formula (220 minus the exercisers age) used to determine maximum heart rate and exercise zones, where did it come from and does it make any sense?  What special nutritional needs to athletes have and are expensive supplements of any use?  What are the effects of exercise on body fat and cholesterol?  What should one look for in a trainer? Finally, why do we feel good after exercising?  These are all questions that Kolata sets out to answer.  She uses her own pursuit of fitness through the popular stationary bicycle exercise Spinning as a narrative thread throughout the book.  This device helps to give the text a more human quality than other books on fitness.  Kolata also gives us sketches of men like the promoter Bernarr Mcfadden, running guru Dr. Kenneth Cooper, researcher Dr. David Costill and bodybuilder Jack LaLane, all of whom have contributed to the preoccupation with fitness that has swept much of America over the past several decades.   It's a readable and interesting book that provides thoughtful answers to questions that we all have about exercise and health. <br /> <br />Jeffrey Morseburg <br />	2004-10-01
US	20997233	R3UUYB1IXDRIKM	0060014342	177040953	In the Wake of the Plague: The Black Death and the World It Made	Books	4	0	1	N	N	A Concise Look at How the Black Death Changed History...	<br /> Norman Cantor is one of the pre-imminent historians of the Middle Ages and his \\"The Civilization of the Middle Ages\\" is a classic.  The small volume that I'm summarizing here is a concise history of a pivotal event of the Middle Ages, the Black Death, which killed some forty percent of Europe's population.  Cantor's book is based on accounts from the Middle Ages as well as recent scientific scholarship that that illuminates the probable causes of the epidemic and its spread.  In this unusual narrative history, the author introduces individual characters that help to humanize the victims of the disease and he then shows the effect of the Black Death on every aspect of European history.  Cantor works backward, tracing the effects of pandemics on earlier epochs, summarizing the theory that the demise of Classical Greece and Rome and the Holy Roman Empire was hastened by disease.   <br />	2004-10-01
US	20997233	RIJH1GPH9PDNW	1404335501	314887977	Twenty Years After, V1	Books	4	0	0	N	N	The Intricate Sequel to The Three Musketeers..the Fonde...	Like many young men before me, I discovered Alexandre Dumas in my youth and his \\"Count of Monte Christo\\" and \\"Three Musketeers\\" remain some of my favorite books. From the \\"Count of Monte Christo\\" we learn that revenge is a dish best served cold and from the \\"Three Musketeers\\" we come to value the pleasures of friendship and the importance of personal loyalty. While some critics may look upon these books as 19th century pulp fiction, they have stood the test of time for the quality of the stories have kept the books in print and made them the basis for swashbuckling movies from the earliest days of film to the present day. Most of Dumas books were densely plotted novels set in historical France. His characters are memorable and the novels are intricately plotted stories of intrigue and treachery.  Those who complain about the state of politics today should pick up a Dumas novel, for the French ministers played for very high stakes indeed. Because of the sophistication of their plots - and the depths of intrigue present in the French aristocracy - these books require intense concentration on the part of the reader for there are legions of characters to keep track of, each with his or her own agenda.  The \\"Three Musketeers\\" dealt with the adventures of d'Artagnan, a real life Musketeer from Gascony who lived during the rein of Louis XIII and Louis XIV.  His comrades Athos, Porthos and Aramis, who were also based on real men and the novel, set in 1628, followed these characters as they intrigued on the side of the Queen, Anne of Austria, who was married to Louis XIII.  They were pitted against one of the great villains of literary history, the imperious and imposing Cardinal Richelieu.  This book \\"Twenty Years After\\" is a sequel to the first tale of the Musketeers and it is set during the dramatic days of the Fronde,  of Civil War in France, two decades after the conclusion of the first story, when the Musketeers have been separated by time and events.  The queen mother, Anne of Austria rules France as regent for the young Louis XIV and the power behind the throne is Cardinal Marazin, who is Anne's secret lover.   Dumas has the Musketeers come out of retirement and re-discover the value of their friendship so that they can match wits with the devious French Minister, Marazin and the character of the Son of Milady, the unforgettable female villain of the \\"Three Musketeers.\\"  Despite the heavy plot, Dumas' pace never flags and dedicated readers will not only be thoroughly entertained but they will probably learn more about the intricacies of French history and politics than they ever thought possible.  Jeffrey Morseburg	2004-10-01
US	20997233	R2ZS5GLZ038F2E	0345348109	227222206	The Killer Angels: The Classic Novel of the Civil War (Civil War Trilogy)	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Classic of Historical Fiction	\\"The Killer Angels\\" is a modern classic of historical fiction.  Written by the late Michael Shaara, it was the book that spurred the documentary filmmaker Ken Burn's interest in America's Civil War, our bloodiest and most divisive conflict.  Winner of the Pulitzer Prize for Fiction, it is an account of three days that changed the course of American history - the Battle of Gettysburg where the Confederate and Union Armies met at a strategic crossroads in a small Pennsylvania town.  Today, when you walk the miles of battlefields, which are constantly interrupted by monuments to the fallen, both large and small, it is still possible to imagine the events of those three hot, sweaty and bloody days in July of 1863, especially when you have a work like Shaara's as a guide. By writing his account as a work of fiction, rather than non-fiction, the author was able to humanize his leading characters - Generals Lee, Longstreet and the bitter General Pickett whose troops were forced to first march and then charge into the fusillade of the cannons and musketry of the Union center, leaving them broken and shattered.  Shaara was able to take these men down from the pedestals they populate in the cities of the North and South, to make them real men of flesh and blood once again.  The hero of the novel is the bookish Colonel Joshua Lawrence Chamberlin, commander of the 20th Maine Volunteers, who anchored the Union Army's left flank on the rocky slopes of Little Round Top.  James McPherson, one of the most brilliant Civil War historians of today, has endorsed \\"The Killer Angeles\\" because of its wonderful confluence of accuracy and readability.	2004-10-01
US	20997233	R29ZCUXH8XGKLJ	0671799320	635706820	The Prize: The Epic Quest for Oil, Money, & Power	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Pioneering Monograph on a Vital Commodity	Although the western world's dependence on fossil fuels requires us to deal with some of the world's most odious regimes because of our massive needs, we will be importing massive amount of oil for the foreseeable future.  While there are alternative energy sources that show some promise, it will clearly take decades to develop them and the investment of many billions of dollars.  So, we are left drilling deep in the earth so that we can extract the \\"black gold\\" that our industrialized societies run on.  Unfortunately, some of the most massive oil reserves are located in the most politically volatile areas on earth and are controlled by autocratic regimes with populations that resent our presence and involvement in the region.  How did we end up where we are today?  This is the question that Daniel Yergen answers in his long, epic history of oil.  He is a gifted writer and beginning with early oil discoveries in America and the growth of Standard Oil, John D. Rockefeller's colossal corporation, he adroitly sketched the businessmen, bureaucrats and diplomats that forged the oil business.  He then artfully describes the discovery and race to develop the world's largest oil deposit in the Middle East, the vital importance of oil reserves to the warring powers during World War II, the emergence of OPEC and the current state of energy strategy.  Yergin has a deep background in the energy business as well as a firm grasp of the complex strategic issues that face is and \\"The Prize\\" is a sweeping panoramic history of one of the world's most important commodities.    Jeffrey Morseburg	2004-10-01
US	20997233	R1Q1GHYVDV90GS	0671537466	339013638	Streets of Laredo	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Not Lonesome Dove...but An Excellent Sequel	\\"Streets of Laredo\\" is the much-anticipated sequel to Larry McMurtry's finest and most memorable novel, \\"Lonesome Dove.\\"  Because of the quality of the first novel, which ranks among this reader's favorites, almost any follow-up would be disappointing as \\"Lonesome Dove\\" is a book that few readers will forget.  \\"Streets of Laredo\\" suffers from the fact that Gus McCrae, one of the two cantankerous and aging cowboys from \\"Lonesome Dove\\", is not present in this book.  The repartee and interaction between the voluble McCrae and the taciturn, curmudgeonly Call was one of the great strengths of the first novel and now, in \\"Streets of Laredo\\", Call, the less colorful of the duo is at the center of the story.  He is hired to track down a Mexican bandit, Joey Garza and along with an Eastern \\"tenderfoot\\", a hapless deputy sheriff and \\"Pea Eye\\" Parker, one of the secondary characters from \\"Lonesome Dove\\", he pursues the bandit across the windswept panhandle, through the hardscrabble Pecos country and into Mexico.  McMurtry populates the Streets of Laredo with real life characters drawn from western history including the prolific killer John Wesley Hardin, the cattleman and trailblazer, Charles Goodnight and the colorful Judge Roy Bean who set himself up as \\"The Law West of the Pecos.\\"  In \\"Streets of Laredo\\" Woodrow Call is an aging man, not destined for more adventures and so the awkward \\"Pea Eye\\" Parker, who is now a husband and a father, married to the beautiful and good hearted whore Lorena, is elevated to a major character, torn between the pull of home and hearth and duty to his comrades.  Like most of McMurtry's books about the historic west, this novel is brutal, full of violent deaths. However, it also features strong and beautifully written female characters as the author understands that the plains were not settled by the feint of heart, that it took bold men and resourceful, strong women to tame a wild country.  \\"Streets of Laredo\\" does not measure up to the preceding \\"Lonesome Dove\\" but it is a fine book nonetheless, with a straightforward narrative drive that provides the reader with a compelling and haunting tale of love, loss, duty, pain, and ultimately, redemption.<br /><br />We beat the drum lowly and shook the spurs slowly,<br /><br /> And bitterly wept as we bore him along;<br /><br />For we all loved our comrade, so brave and so handsome,<br /><br />We all loved our comrade, although he's done wrong...<br /><br />  From \\"Streets of Laredo\\"<br /><br />  Perhaps the saddest old cowboy song, written about 1860ng \\"Lonesome Dove\\" but it is a fine book nonetheless, with a straightforward narrative drive that provides the reader with a compelling and haunting tale of love, loss, duty, pain, and ultimately, redemption. <br /> <br /> <br />We beat the drum lowly and shook the spurs slowly, <br /> And bitterly wept as we bore him along; <br />For we all loved our comrade, so brave and so handsome, <br />We all loved our comrade, although he's done wrong... <br />    From \\"Streets of Laredo\\" <br />    Perhaps the saddest old cowboy song, written about 1860 <br />	2004-10-01
US	20997233	R3IO8907ON1ZOM	1893554457	439951201	Heaven on Earth: The Rise and Fall of Socialism	Books	5	12	14	N	N	The God That Failed...	Not so long ago, millions of people thought they saw the future in the secular religion of socialism.  With its claims of being a \\"scientific\\" was of organizing the world's political and economic systems, socialism attracted enlightened \\"progressives\\" who saw it as the answer to the world's ills.  Repelled by the crassness of mass-market capitalism, weary of the tyranny of the boom and bust business cycle and seeking relief for a post-colonial third world, the educated elite adopted different forms of socialism as the way to bring about a paradise on earth.  In \\"Heaven and Earth\\" Joshua Muravchik brings a storyteller's gifts to explain how this secular form of religion swept the globe faster than Christianity or Islam.  Although the topic is portentous and weighty, the author has produced a very readable book, which depends on a series of vignettes - profiles of the men who gave socialism it's intellectual framework and then tried to make it a workable system.  Muravchik begins with the origins of the left in the French Revolutionary era and the ideas of the radical egalitarian Gracchus Babeuf, describes the utopian socialism of 19th century radicals, explains the intellectual developments of Marx and Engels and then reveals the path that took us to the hellish world  of the 20th Century Communist regimes. The author grew up as a third-generation socialist and his background as a \\"red diaper\\" has given him insights into radical socialism's appeal that others may not have.  He describes the rise of Clement Atlee, the labor movement and the development of social democracy with a sympathetic but critical eye.  While he clearly understands the appeal of socialism - which as recently as the 1970's was the form of government for sixty percent of the world's nations - Muravchik explains its fatal contradictions.  As a former socialist be has embraced market capitalism as an imperfect but better superior answer and like millions of others, he has rejected the idea that human nature can be overcome and virtue enforced by the heavy hand of the state.	2004-10-01
US	20997233	RG64X84UEV20F	0465022723	26964812	The Little Ice Age: How Climate Made History 1300-1850	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Tempature Trends Last Hundreds of Years...	Until recently, the role of climate change in history could not have been considered with any accuracy.  After all, beginning in British India, man only began keeping relatively accurate records about a hundred years ago and scientific studies of ice cores and tree rings are recent developments.  Now, scientists have provided historians with data going back thousands of years, which has allowed them to examine the graphs of annual cycles of warmer and cooler temperatures and compare these to historical events. The end of The Great Ice Age some 15,000 years ago and the recession of the massive glaciers that covered much of Europe in the last 12,000 years, allowed the growth of civilization and the cultivation of annual crops for the first time.    In this excellent book Fagen - an Archaeology Professor at U.C. Santa Barbara - contrasts the Medieval Warm Period of 900-1300 with the Little Ice Age, which followed.  While the significantly warmer weather of the Medieval Warm Period allowed the English to cultivate wine grapes and the Vikings, in their open \\"long boats\\" to settle Greenland - which was actually quite green - and to explore North America, the Little Ice Age, with its dramatically colder temperatures and longer winters helped to hasten the agricultural revolution of the 18th century, deepen farming problems in slow-to-reform France which helped to widen discontent with the Ancien Regime and to contribute to the severity of the Irish Potato Famine which killed millions and sent millions or Irish to America.  An important note is that the centuries of the Medieval Warm Period were the warmest centuries in the last 8,000 years and several degrees (Fahrenheit) warmer than today.  One of the fascinating observations in the book is just how much temperatures fluctuate on an annual basis and that even in the midst of a general warming or cooling trend; there are individual years that are warm and cool.   So, clearly drawing conclusions from a warm winter or two -as television weathermen and agenda driven commentators are prone to do - is sheer folly.  Even though the author feels that we probably are in the midst of a general warming trend that began about 1850, which he feels can have dramatic consequences, he is qualified in his endorsement of the Global Warming theory.  Fagen makes notes of the incredible complexity of the computer modeling necessary for climate research, the lack of certainty on the role of the sun that provides us with our light and heat and the difficulty of knowing whether to attribute planetary warming to man's influence or naturally occurring factors.  This book is an important one for anyone	2004-10-01
US	20997233	R2RE8E8BKQWMOJ	0679735259	135528120	Dispatches	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A Searing Memoir...A Vietnam Classic	Michael Herr's \\"Dispatches\\" is one of the finest personal memoirs from a reporter in the Vietnam War. His account is full of the machismo, swagger, cynicism and passion that are indicative of the war correspondent.  \\"Dispatches\\" is brutal and unflinching in its realism but the ugliness of the book - and the war - is leavened at times by a dark humor and sense of the surreal.  Herr has a great ear for dialogue and a gift for observation and he describes the dramatic events of the Tet Offensive and his experiences with soldiers in places like Khe Sanh in great detail.  This irony filled and drug fueled narrative is written in the tradition of Crane, Hemingway and Joseph Conrad's \\"Heart of Darkness\\" which became the inspiration for the film \\"Apocalypse Now.\\"  It should be read by anyone who seeks to soak up some of the atmosphere of the long, ugly war in Indochina and the men who sent their dispatches home for readers back home.  Jeffrey Morseburg <br /> <br />	2004-10-01
US	20997233	R3R48K6B6I3NWH	0375757481	768233274	The Men Who Wear the Star: The Story of the Texas Rangers (Modern Library Paperbacks)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	A Readable Account of a Larger than Life Unit...	<br /> Although I have Walter Prescott Webb's classic work on the Texas Rangers, which was written decades ago, I was happy to see that there is a new history of the fabled frontier law enforcement unit had come out.  The Texas Rangers were founded even before Texas independence in order to protect settlers from attacks from Comanche, Kiowa and Apache Indians, outlaws of more familiar origin, miscellaneous miscreants and eventually, after Texas joined the United States, cross-border Mexican bandits. While many of the early Ranger units were little more than sanctioned vigilantes who often conflated their law enforcement role with what can be described as extra-judicial enforcement of the law, they were tasked with an extremely difficult task - keeping Texans safe in a violent time.  The Indians, who lived a hardscrabble existence on the windswept Texas plains, were resentful of intrusion of the white settlers and ranchers on their land and so more than five decades of raids ensued.  Other works like the seminal \\"Trail Drivers of Texas\\" are full of stories of Texans who were killed by small war parties as the settlers pushed their way farther north and west.  While Robinson does not attempt to whitewash the racism, brutality and ruthlessness of the early Texas Rangers, he puts their behavior into the proper context of the era in which they lived.  His book is a narrative of short stories that illustrates live among the poorly paid Rangers and vividly portrays the heroism and endurance that was necessary to pursue outlaws and Indians across a barren and treacherous landscape.  Robinson has augmented early accounts with further research that sheds light on the Rangers during the Civil War and the Reconstruction Period that followed.  The history of the Texas Rangers is important for anyone who seeks to learn more about Texas as their story is intertwined with many other areas of Texas history including the rebellion against Mexico, the battle for the Alamo, post-war relations with Mexico and Texas law enforcement from the 1820's to the present day.  Charles M. Robinson III, a native Texan, fills his book with truly larger-than-life characters like the immortal Captain McNelly who engendered great loyalty among his men and animosity from those he pursued. The Men Who Wore the Star provides those of us who love the American West with an excellent single volume history of the Texas Rangers.  Jeffrey Morseburg <br />	2004-10-01
US	20997233	RY5A2WHPWQQXP	0670030783	10638082	Napoleon (Penguin Lives)	Books	5	12	18	N	N	Clear, Consise and Hold's Napleon to Account...	Written by the prolific British historian Paul Johnson, this small volume on Napoleon Bonaparte is part of the excellent new series of \\"Penguin Lives\\" which is a series of concise biographies of major historical figures written by distinguished writers.  \\"Napoleon\\" is not a hagiographical account of the famous French general's life.  Johnson is a historian who isn't afraid to make judgments and this account is one, which holds Bonaparte up to moral scrutiny and finds him responsible for the long series of wars that bear his name.  The hardships that the continent of Europe had to endure and the loss of millions of lives are laid at the doorstep of \\"Le Emperor's\\" tremendous ego.  Johnson clearly sees him as an opportunist who took advantage of the power vacuum left after the bloodletting of the French Revolution.  Napoleon, like many 20th century dictators recognized that revolutions provided an opportunity for those who were ruthless enough to seize power.  Johnson's Napoleon is a charismatic man but one who doesn't truly care for the men who won him glory and bore the brunt of his insatiable lust for power.  The author succeeds well at describing the battles and campaigns that made up Napoleon's life and as usual, he is particularly adept at sketching the character of Napoleon's generals and ministers.  The constant death and mayhem are enlivened by humorous anecdotes about Napoleon's love life, which was the subject of much ribaldry in the British Army, when they intercepted one of his love letters.  Johnson does give credit to a man who, after all, rose from nothing to attain great power.  As the Emperor of France, he did institute much needed reforms, some of which are still in place in the France of today, but more than anything, Paul Johnson sees Napoleon as a man who came out of the chaos of revolution to dominate an epoch and become a precussor to the bloody tyrants of the 20th Century - Lenin, Stalin, Hitler, Mao, Castro, Hussien - who each built their cultof personality on the Napoleonic model.  Jeffrey Morseburg	2004-10-01
US	20997233	RA6D6AHNCIWL4	0300087047	185595530	Smiling Through the Cultural Catastrophe: Toward the Revival of Higher Education	Books	4	3	3	N	N	The Tension Between Faith and Reason	Jeffrey Hart, the author of \\"Smiling Through the Cultural Catastrophe\\" is an eccentric Professor Emeritus from Dartmouth. Following in the footsteps of his own professors, who included Jacques Barzun and Mark Van Doren, Hart is a great proponent of Western Civilization and a truly liberal education.  In the wake of the multiculturist wave that swept academic in the 1980's, he became an outspoken advocate of the traditional \\"Great Books\\" education that was once the foundation of a liberal arts education.  In his preface, he cites the premise advanced by one of his own professors at Dartmouth, a German refugee named Eugen Rosenstock-Huessy who felt that the goal of the educational system must be to help create citizens who he defined as a \\"person who if need be, can re-create his civilization.\\"  Hart wants an educated American to \\"understand his civilization in the large, its shape and texture, its narrative and its major themes, its important areas of thought, its philosophies and religious controversies, its scientific development, its major works of the imagination.\\"  These are demanding but laudable goals and in this short book of essays Hart illuminates the tensions in western culture between the classical secular philosophical foundation on one hand and the moral and religious tradition on the other.  He feels that it is this tension, the attempt to reconcile reason and faith that makes western civilization unique.  In my own reading, it is this balance between faith and reason that is perhaps the central element in the American founding.  In many of these essays, which the author has clearly thought through over decades of teaching, he contrasts intellectual figures from the world of secular reason with those who have been religiously inspired.  Hart contrasts Athens with Jerusalem, Socrates with Jesus, Moliere with Voltaire, Dosteyevsky with F. Scott Fitzgerald.  Other essays include \\"Moses as an Epic Hero\\" and one on St. Paul.  Although this book was written in reaction to what the author felt was a cultural crisis, the title is not particularly apt as the book is not a manifesto of any kind, but an elegantly written meditation on the great literary and philosophical classics that Jeffrey Hart introduced generations of students to.in reaction to what the author felt was a cultural crisis, the title is not particularly apt as the book is not a manifesto of any kind, but an elegantly written meditation on the great literary and philosophical classics that Jeffrey Hart introduced generations of students to.     <br />	2004-10-01
US	20997233	R1ZS0QSCQV4X1R	0743200438	528789584	The Great Game: The Emergence of Wall Street as a World Power: 1653-2000	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Breezy History of New York as a Business Empire	The Great Game is a wonderful narrative history of Wall Street and New York as a financial center, the supercharged engine of world capitalism.  John Steele Gordon is a gifted writer whose byline appears frequently in the pages of American Heritage.  In this work he focuses on the men and events that made Wall Street the center of the financial world.  Beginning with Dutch Manhattan, the city of the Knickerbockers, Gordon explains how Wall Street got its name, the vital importance of Dutch mercantilism and their invention of the modern banking system, the stock exchange, business insurance and the corporation - all of which were adopted by the British who transformed New Amsterdam into New York.  The book introduces the origins of the securities business in the Buttonwood Agreement, the vital role of Alexander Hamilton, the consummate New Yorker, who set the new American nation on firm financial footing, the role of New York's great harbor, then the construction of the Erie Canal, which opened the west to development and transformed New York into the financial capital of America.  Gordon introduces the colorful figures that have been players in the \\"Great Game\\" of the financial markets, from Jacob Little and other early promoters, the \\"Commodore\\" Vanderbilt, the mid-19th century colossus, to Hetty Green, millionaire and the \\"meanest woman in the world\\" to J.P. Morgan whose financial savvy saved Wall Street from crisis more than once.  He writes of the important 20th century figures like Charles Merrill, the man who democratized stock investing and brought it to Middle America and finally Michael Miliken, developer of the \\"junk bond\\" as a financial instrument during the go-go 1990's.  John Steele Gordon's \\"Great Game\\" is a lively and compelling account of the most important little street in the world by a writer who knows his material well and clearly enjoys sharing it.	2004-10-01
