US	22052997	R3JRR3CGUGZQQC	189062635X	913188759	Shows About Nothing: Nihilism in Popular Culture from The Exorcist to Seinfeld	Books	4	12	14	N	N	Q: What's on TV tonight?  A: Nothing.	Thomas Hibbs reveals a new dimension to American popular culture with his book, Shows About Nothing. Many people are not going to know what nihilism is, or who Nietzsche was, but they can quote Seinfeld. Hibbs spends much time expanding this common thread, and examines the philosophical undertones of popular movies like Cape Fear and se7en. By doing so, he demonstrates that what the themes these movies teach us are either dangerously close to, and sometimes outright, nihilistic.    Before this book, I thought of nihilism as full-blown anarchy, and modern American society as only 'halfway down the road' to Nietzsche. Hibbs provides a more refined explanation of what nihilism is, and it is not necessarily the nightmarish struggle between 'ubermensch' one imagines. Sometimes nihilism can be quite pleasant, since you are 'beyond their good and evil' and see all morality as mere constructs of man. The flight from responsibility is one possible reason nihilism hangs around - human nature, another - and perhaps is why some dedicate their lives to 'deconstructing' our civilization to a collection of artifices. But there is great danger in this newly acquired freedom. As Hibbs once said in a speech, nihilism brings you both Seinfeld and Columbine.    It seems to me that nihilism, existentialism and deconstructionists are all sides of the same triangle. Many people blow off these schools of thought, because 'who cares what's in some book?' Well, Marxism also started out in book form, and ultimately grew to an opponent in the nuclear stalemate of MAD. Therefore, even bad ideas have power if professors or governments choose to endorse them. We spent thousands of years crawling out of the jungle; nihilism returns us there, and to this I feel there are only two logical ends. One is looking to a lonely sky and merely blinking at what was once God's kingdom to your forefathers. The other ends on your knees, bloodied, looking up the barrel of a gun.	2005-10-06
US	22052997	R3AGWVC941I4AT	0062511904	206239700	I Can't Accept Not Trying: Michael Jordan on the Pursuit of Excellence	Books	3	31	35	N	N	And the secret of success is...	...that there is no secret. Michael Jordan is probably the greatest basketball player of all time, so when such an accomplished man speaks on the achievement of excellence, it is worth the effort to pay attention. In a short 36-page read, Jordan gives advice that resonates far beyond sports, and applies just the same to academic, business and personal areas of life.    Discipline, foresight and sacrifice make up Jordan's own triangle offense against the obstacles one meets on the road to excellence. I was glad to see he made the observation that people in this country only see the end result - the final payoff - completely ignoring the backbreaking work it took to reach that end. You see it everyday - an honest effort done in by a lack of foresight and pie-in-the-sky goals. People want the payoff without putting down the deposit, and as a result a lot of potential is nipped in the bud. Hard work alone does not guarantee, but in the end that is all you can do. Excellence, then, is not a goal, but a process.    Homer wrote 'The Iliad' thousands of years ago, but there is a line within that still holds true today, and particularly here. A young hero there muses that of all qualities in a person - bravery, wisdom, God-given strength - nothing matters so much as heart. Jordan echoes that sentiment - talent alone will not do the trick, and his achievements confirm he was right. Heart measures the gap between the hall-of-famer and the might-have-been.	2005-10-04
US	22052997	R26I2M0ZYXD556	0060931957	627065254	The Odyssey of Homer	Books	5	8	9	N	N	"A man of word and deed"	It's been three thousand years since the time of Homer, but we still read his works for two reasons: incredible storytelling and human nature. I've read a lot in my time, but to me The Illiad and The Odyssey are the best our civilization has to offer, surpassing Dante, surpassing Shakespeare. And similar to these two, Homer still teaches us about life even today.<br /><br />I think we've all been Telemachus at one point or another: awkward, self-conscious and feeling slightly adrift in the face of life. Likewise, I believe Odysseus represents many ideals even for today's world. Through the Odyssey he displays a somewhat paradoxical nature, at one time a reckless braggart, then again a calculating trickster. But in the end he exhibits faith, loyalty, honor and a sense of family which trumps all else. He relied on his brains as much as his strength, when without either he would have died several times over. The Odyssey can be pretty funny at times as well. I get the sense I'm reading a sitcom whenever a suitor throws a stool across the room or a drunk falls off Circe's roof. Bizarre! Those types of actions are a little part of what makes this book so human.<br /><br />Lattimore won me over with this translation; it is a credit to his career. Read this book young, but not too young. It will help you along. The internal growth Achilles experienced in Book 9 of the Iliad wasn't on display fully then, but those inward qualities do take the fore for Odysseus. One last thing I've noticed about Homer is that paralells occur often, and some events seem cyclical or complimentry. Without getting too specific and ruining it for you, I would say that the ending the Epic cycle (the story of the Trojan war) matches up appropiately with its beginning. I like to pretend the Odyssey's follow-up - Eugamon's 'Telegony' - never happened.	2005-08-03
US	22052997	R38RCB99KKXSN5	0130409421	791622306	Samba Essentials for Windows Administrators	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A very good introduction, but....	Need Samba? Have a deadline, but find yourself intimidated by the intricacies of Linux? If that is the scenario you face, then Samba Essentials for Windows Administrators has been written with you in mind. Here the author begins with a comparison of the Windows platform and the Linux kernel, outlining their similarities and differences, providing a sense of direction to newbies. Taken as a whole, this book provides a good jumping-off point into the larger world of Linux.    Samba is approached in very task-oriented chapters. After an essential look at the basics of Samba, the chapters are broken down by task. Need a file server? Consult Chapter 3. How do I configure my Windows machines? Take a look at Chapter 6. Probably the best quality this book features is its coverage of SWAT, a powerful web interface that configures Samba in a way quite reminescent of Windows. Hence the title. You'll go from zero to Samba fast.    And yet, while this book is a worthy resource, I noticed one drawback. I highly recommend this book, but also suggest that it be used as a companion to other resources, including the official documentation on the Samba website. I bought the hard-copy version of 'Samba 3 by Example' (Terpstra), and together these two books helped me get up and running. The essentials are of course - essential - but on your way you'll come across a few snags. Sometimes these fall outside of the essentials, so you'll need a comrehensive grasp of this technology.	2005-08-02
US	22052997	RIXLFWI7I4W9A	0192834266	295639784	Candide and Other Stories (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	3	8	21	N	N	Decadence and disillusion? Must be French Lit	Voltaire's Candide is a scathing satire on one of the more popular metaphysical theories of his day: that is, we live in the best of all possible worlds. In spite of the disasters and disappointments that befall mankind, Candide and an array of companions attempt to make sense of their personal tragedies while shoehorning it into the Leibniz theory.    Candide is well-written, and sprinkled with cute and clever irony. I also enjoyed the references Voltaire makes to his personal enemies in Candide. However, the optimistic theory that prompted this satire has been rejected, which leads me to believe there isn't much purpose for this book any longer. Really the only reason left to read Candide is to become 'culturally literate', I suppose. Don't get me wrong; the ultimate message of this book is a good one. However, I hope readers don't think Candide's lesson must preclude optimism all together, or love, or friends, or God. That fact is obscured to make a literary point.    The only interesting question that remains to be asked from this book is: why does such cyncism accompany 'enlightenment'? Both French and American societies are rife with it after all, so much that I doubt even Voltaire could manage much of a smirk. All he could do would be to join the choir and tend the garden he has sown.	2005-05-21
US	22052997	R1NJ2PD98MF830	0684801221	737092002	The Old Man and The Sea	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Not too shabby	I'm not the biggest Hemingway fan in the world, but I like this book. I first read it in high school, just like millions of kids still do every year. The Old Man and the Sea is an American classic, and for some pretty good reasons. It signified the author's return to greatness, it shows an old man who is full of both resolve and wry humor, and lastly it is a moving story told in very simple, straightforward language.    I can appreciate what this novella is about. You take a guy down on his luck and send him on a journey of unearthly demands. How does he react? Santiago could have given up and quit any time he wanted - before or after his catch - so it is interesting to see what drives a man onward. Hemingway thought that Santiago's qualities were what was important in a man; he makes a good case for them here. Compassion, perserverance and a sense of order to life all come into play. Santiago respects the fish, and that is what makes this story most memorable.    I don't know whether this was symbolic of Hemingway's own struggle with the literary critics of his time, nor do I think that this is his best . But I think the Old Man and the Sea should be read...in all ages. Perhaps it is fitting that a book like this is told in such simple language. Like the ocean itself, great things lurk just below the surface for those who wish to look.	2005-04-28
US	22052997	R23B8IWVNMIZRQ	1573228575	621480145	The Forest for the Trees: An Editor's Advice to Writers	Books	4	11	11	N	N	It's good advice	This is an interesting read, and one I think that is both informative and inspirational. I wanted to gain a little insight into the world of publishing, both from the editor's perspective and what writers might expect when they submit a novel. Lerner provided good advice on both of these topics, and even provided a surprisingly good insight into the art as a whole.     Forest for the Trees is split into two halves, Writing and Publishing. The first section lays out a kind of categorization of writers and their general traits. 'The Natural', 'the Neurotic' and 'the Self-Promoter' definitely reveals Lerner's experience with scribes, and it is here that writers can find comfort and inspiration as they learn that, uneqivocably, everyone experiences the same hopes, doubts and fears at some point. I think that writers will recognize their own traits sprinkled through Lerner's six types of writers, although they will notice that one type ultimately rises above the rest. Many writers could probably just look at the table of contents and have a good idea of which 'type' they are.    The second half - Publishing - shows where the art meets the business. For writers, this is a valuable insight into how the 'other half' operates. This was an education in and of itself, and Lerner does a good job in explaining both the process and the feelings behind the publishing process. Also, there are good explanations of how editors approach their work and some of their beliefs about the trade. All in all, Forest for the Trees is both a quick and valuable read.	2005-04-20
US	22052997	R1WR92DY5TVLD2	1594200076	469542612	Ghost Wars: The Secret History of the CIA, Afghanistan, and bin Laden, from the Soviet Invasion to September 10, 2001	Books	3	55	58	N	N	Informative, thorough and needed	I have to say that Ghost Wars is probably one of the most ambitious books I've ever read in terms of scope. Coll covers the period from the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan to September 10, 2001. International terrorism, the Russo-Afghan war, US-Pakistan relations have had whole books dedicated to these specific topics, so I was a little concerned how that would shake out in a single text. To his credit, Coll pulls it off for the most part. However, there is just such a glut of information that the reader will find himself at times overwhelmed when the book goes into new or unfamiliar topics. It's like reading the encyclopedia at times, which is both compliment and a criticism.    I picked up Ghost Wars for insight on the history that led up to September 11, 2001. I learned much more than I was expecting to, and Coll does a good job of sprinkling historical back-stories when necessary. The founding of Saudi Arabi and the brief biography of CIA's William Casey are two good examples. Bin Laden also becomes more than a terrorist mastermind here, and at times I felt I almost gained a little insight to who this guy is and his life. Some would say that knowing these circumstances partially excuse him, but make no mistake: this book's purpose is not to excuse, but to inform. Amazingly, bin Laden faced an assasination attempt by fellow Muslims because he wasn't 'devout enough'. Incredible.    Ghost Wars is a great pre-9/11 history of a complicated, murky and convoluted topic. One who reads this book will be not be surprised any longer by any stories the media releases as new on this topic. Also valuable are the questions this book puts to rest, or at least tries to put to rest. Did we arm bin Laden? How much did we really help to the formation of al-Quada? The answers will surprise most, and will probably end up disappointing those who believe America can do no wrong and those who believe America can do no right.	2005-03-24
US	22052997	R3P9SIR4JP7D5P	0553380656	848425539	The Painted Word	Books	3	42	49	N	N	The fraud of modern art	If you were to stop a random person on the street and ask him what his favorite painting was, chances are it wouldn't be anything newer than Picasso. These days, art seems historically detached from what it once was, led by the esoteric mumblings of `in-the-know' art professionals. Enter Tom Wolfe, who in this installment levels his satiric pen at the world of modern American art.    Wolfe really helps explain what the actual intention of modern art is these days. Whereas in the past art was meant to please God, or to portray great moments in history, or to push the boundaries of perception, the goal of today's art is to be the perpetual rebel, the anti-bourgeois. Also targets of this satiric salvo are leading art personalities like Harold Rosenberg and Leo Steinberg. It's a short and enjoyable read.    For me, perhaps the most damning indictment of modern art came not from this book (although the themes were echoed), but from a recent episode of 20/20 (March 11, 2005). In it the reporters show off a series of abstract-looking paintings to several upper-East Side art critics. Unbeknownst to them, these works were the finger painting products of four year-old children. The critics largely praise the works, but my how they scramble when they learn of the `artists' behind these creations. Add to that the quote one of them says - that `The purpose of art is to make rich people feel important' - leaves me feeling that modern art is but a soulless, hypocritical, contrarian fraud.	2005-03-14
US	22052997	R21SRCJCXQ8CDR	1414200110	230229237	The Art of Writing	Books	5	9	9	N	N	An interesting perspective	For aspiring scribes and book lovers everywhere, Robert Louis Stevenson offers a variety of thoughts on the art of writing. Currently, there are plenty of books out there that claim to speak of writing and how to go about it. The irony is that often you've never heard of these writers who proclaim to know the craft so well. That isn't the case here, as every school child knows of Treasure Island. Stevenson's success as a writer is one we can all hope to attain for ourselves.    In these essays, Stevenson gives advice on a variety of subjects, ranging from inspiration and direction to the technical methods of writing. He mentions the basic tools of writing: word choice, rhythm in verse and prose, plotting and the ever-hard to define 'writing style'. At one point Stevenson launches into a lecture on the morality of writing - that is, the potential for good that literature has, and the responsibility that comes with that power.    Although I haven't read many books on 'how' to write, I do plan on remembering the advice Stevenson mentions here, and applying those lessons to my own writing when possible. He doesn't speak too long on the creative process of Treasure Island, but the insight he provides is pretty good. The Art of Writing is a little-known diamond. I think it would benefit anyone who reads it.	2005-01-28
US	22052997	R3E6I9MLWRJ5PA	0451526341	380925201	Animal farm: A Fairy Story	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Two legs bad, five stars great	George Orwell - best known for his seering criticisms of totalitarianism - does it again with Animal Farm. Here the reader will see the struggle between ideals and personal power play out in a quiet corner of the English countryside. After suffering under the cruel rule of man, an old boar named Major reveals a vision that came to him in the night - a dream where every animal is able to live in both comfort and dignity. This excites the animals so greatly that soon they oust man from the farm and set up their own utopia.<br /><br />Orwell, of course, wrote Animal Farm as an indictment of Communist Russia. Like 1984, the observant reader will notice that allusions, references and parallels between Animal Farm and the totalitarian Russia abound. Many of the characters symbolize historical characters like Stalin, Trotsky and Lenin.<br /><br />It's kind of strange, looking back to the time at which this was written. Stalin was a great ally of America against the Nazis, and most people didn't want to upset that with 'philosophical' differences. There was also the a section of America infatuated with the 'Great Experiment' of Russia, such as that of Upton Sinclair and his character who toils under the 'evils' of capitalism, stating only that 'I will work harder.' Orwell felt it only fair, I think, that communism be shown as it was without romantic ideal. Animal Farm is a tale for all ages. Check it out.	2005-01-12
US	22052997	R1H23EIDPBRZ4S	0226469409	627065254	The Iliad of Homer	Books	4	6	9	N	N	The Anchor of Western Literature	I wish that I could say which translation of the Iliad was the best, but as this is the only version I've read, this is all I can review. Lattimore's translation is good and easy to follow, but it seemed to resemble prose more than poetry. If you are looking for more than that, I've heard the Alexander Pope or the Chapman version to be excellent.<br /><br />At its heart, the Iliad is just a great story. The heroes are the very largest of life and there are many scenes that exemplify a very real human essence within all of them. The Trojan War is presented in graphic, gory detail. There are moments of reprieve, however, with dialogues between Hektor and his wife Andromache and between Achilles and a variety of people. By the end, this book will help you get some of that ever-elusive 'wisdom'.<br /><br />What struck me as kind of curious is that some reviewers call this an 'anti-war' book. I wasn't left with this impression. This isn't Euripedes we have here. Sure, at times Achilles subverts the Heroic code of the Homeric era, but the book ends (*spoiler alert*) with him gleefully killing Hektor, thus sealing the fate of Troy. The Iliad is too big a text to be simply 'anti-war' or 'pro-war'. It succeeds in the rarest way of literature: all sides are presented, and the reader will have to decide what to take from the book. One thing I'd like to mention: parallels abound throughout the story. Look for them. There are many layers to this story, which is why we still read it today.	2005-01-01
US	22052997	RWU195N0CIYO7	0060929871	949556910	Brave New World	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Anything for a quiet life	Our Brave New World...what would Huxley say to see so much of his dystopia vision already realized in 2004? Already we focus much of our energy to find ways that ease the crazy sorrow that life brings, immersing ourselves in sitcoms, casual sex and even prozac - our modern day soma. Readers of Plato's Republic will see many ideas here alluded to as well, so many in fact that I think Huxley sourced The Republic as often as modern society itself.<br /><br />Brave New World presents a problem a little more slippery than that of 1984 by George Orwell. In 1984, people live under a dictatorship of fear and ignorance. The evil is plain and easy to see, as is the reader's certainty that he would 'rebel against it' were he in the same situation. It shouldn't be this way here. Imagine a place you could always be happy, you could have any sexual partner you choose and work was never more than a pleasant diversion. Probably that reflects your everyday dreams, and certainly Plato's. So, what's the problem?<br /><br />The problem comes from the idea that feeling good doesn't mean you are happy. That concept is so alien today that it boggles the mind at first. Certainly you won't see this played out on MTV. No, according to Huxley, happiness is being part of something bigger than oneself...a purpose, in other words. In earlier times that purpose was to perform God's work; in ancient Greece it was to perform heroic acts for your family's honor. Today's purpose is feeding your Id. Some have no problem with that, but others like John the Savage see that eventually, all highs and buzzes fade into a hangover and a wasted day.	2004-10-31
US	22052997	RDOIK4A31K527	0974537616	164161415	A National Party No More: The Conscience of a Conservative Democrat	Books	4	14	17	N	N	A voice in the wilderness	Senator Zell Miller occupies a strange place in modern America: that of a conservative democrat. His book 'A National Party No More' outlines what he calls a political party 'adrift' on a tide of wild-eyed fanaticism, demagogy and self-righteous arrogance.    Perhaps nothing gets across this book's point of argument more than these user reviews. One major point is that modern democrats have lost touch with the southern voter - hence a 'national party no more'. The reason? Democrats look down their noses at Southerners, deeming them 'ignorant' and 'bigoted'. Now, looking at some of these reviews, I wonder why he would say that?    Miller goes on to point out the special interests groups that litter American politics and basically subvert the democratic process by pouring millions of dollars to elect - or buy off - our elected politicians. As the book winds down, Miller closes with a simple call for morality. Kids don't need to see so much murder on TV and in the movies. It's bad for them. They don't need to listen to Eminem and Nelly glorifying violence and the sexual exploitation of women. What is so radical or unacceptable about these views? Is this nation so afraid of stepping on toes, so obsessed with feeding their Id that all values and self-restraint take a backseat to polite acceptance? I fear this is the case.    Senator Miller, thank you for your years of service to this nation, both in the government and in the Marine Corps. The lessons and values you state in this book will endure, not because we're a bunch of 'backward puritans', but because these simple morals form the basis of family and maturity.	2004-10-28
US	22052997	RZQVZ7EY4HL98	0842329129	46316172	Left Behind: A Novel of the Earth's Last Days (Left Behind No. 1)	Books	2	6	13	N	N	A review of the series overall	Left Behind succeeds and fails in many ways. First there is the truly intriguing idea that our modern-day world falls subject to the trials and tribulations found in Revelations. That the anti-christ could arrive in the world of CNN and the United Nations is really cool, and this idea alone has sold millions of books. There is also the benefit of spreading the word of the Bible, which fewer people actually bother to be reading today. Maybe it will influence people to read it. These things are gold.    However, the first and second books are by far the best of the series. After book five, I felt I was getting strung along needlessly. The characters actually get shallower throughout the series, and time after time I found myself reading only for the next disaster to hit. Also, the writing is pretty shoddy at times. The margins are padded to make the books longer, and the dialogue is often stilted and cliched.    Some people say this series is culturally insensitive. Yeah, maybe it can be at times. But let's face it - I daresay some people approach this series looking for something bad from the start. In any case, Left Behind is a good beach read. It's not near the level of C.S. Lewis and the Chronicles of Narnia in terms of Christian literature, but it is entertaining enough to pick up used on Amazon or at the library. Hopefully Left Behind will inspire you to become a better Christian, whether you agree with the authors' beliefs or not. That is the hopeful goal for this series at least.	2004-10-18
US	22052997	R34XAR3D7FE3T3	0316769487	862964341	The Catcher in the Rye	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A good example of everyday struggle	The Catcher in the Rye is a pretty strange book. These pages cover the exploits of one Holden Caulfield, a cynical teenager in 1950s America. If I had to describe the book, I'd say it is one prolonged moment covering ~200 pages. The style is reminescent of Jack Kerouac's On the Road, but I feel Catcher in the Rye is a far superior book.     I guess the common chord this book strikes with everyone is that fragile innocence of childhood. The world started out kind and simple for everyone under their parents' wing, but somewhere along the way - 'Bam!' - we're protesting the government, fighting wars and cursing out bosses under our breath. The journey between those two points is often bewildering and confusing, with qualities lost and gained in the transformation. What makes Holden particularly tragic is that he sees this loss of purity coming. In the end Holden shares the same longing of innocence heralded by William Blake and embodied by Peter Pan. Never grow up. Protect your purity. Don't sell out.    Unfortunately, it's a doomed endeavor. We all get older and more cynical as youth crumbles to adulthood. But Holden holds on, and I guess what happens to him in the end is only a natural result of his efforts. Life can be very unkind if you don't play along. Some books teach, while others forecast. The worst mislead us. But a book like Catcher in the Rye helps me remember. It's a book for young and old.	2004-10-17
US	22052997	R1B16KZ5CLQJHU	0201781298	793177435	Java Software Solutions: Foundations of Program Design, Update JavaPlace	Books	3	5	6	N	N	More of a classroom companion	If you find yourself raring to jump into the Java language, this...might not be the book for you. Although this is an introductory book to Java, proceed with caution. The learning curve could be hard to scale if you are teaching yourself Java independently or if you are unfamiliar with computer programming fundamentals. You could be jumping into the deep end of the pool.    This book goes best with teachers and lectures as a classroom text in my opinion. The topics covered are the basics of software programming, such as if-else statements, loops, recursion, applets and object-oriented programming. If you've never programmed before and you're learning on your own, there are clearer texts out there. O' Reilly offers several good books on the subject.    I guess an advanced language like Java will always be difficult to learn at first. I read this book twice - once on my own and once in a college-level class. The first time I found the explanations of the concepts clear enough but could not figure out how to apply them. Understanding the concepts are enough for subjects like philosophy and political science, but with computer science you have to be able to apply them with code. The examples here were far too few and general for me. What made this book alright for me were the lab work and classroom supplements. Those helpers unlocked the concepts of this book for me. Otherwise I could only tell you about computer programming and not do it for you.	2004-10-17
US	22052997	R1MP15PJBIC7L	0321130073	514034583	HTML for the World Wide Web with XHTML and CSS, Fifth Edition	Books	5	5	5	N	N	This book got me started in the field	Computer texts have improved greatly in recent years, but I've had a particularly good experience with the Visual QuickStart series. Elizabeth Castro's book helped me learn the HTML script in a matter of days. The learning curve was short and painless. <br /> <br />I would recommend this book for those who want to either make a personal website, make web programming your career or for those who have just been stuck with the job of maintaining the company website. The fundamentals of HTML and XHTML are laid out with very clear examples, with code snippets set alongside visual examples. This format really cuts down on the abstract concept of the technology. <br /> <br />All in all, HTML for the World Wide Web is worth the money many times over. The sections on CSS and XHTML are a new addition for the fifth version, so you have a really comprehensive resource beneath one cover. You will learn how to create websites, and you will learn quickly.	2004-10-17
US	22052997	R1MNRWLDC02CX6	0375700757	11590154	Cold Mountain: A Novel	Books	3	2	3	N	N	A little overlong	First off, I'm always glad to see a fellow North Carolinian get the literary nod. I began reading Cold Mountain after seeing the movie, and things started off great. The characters were good but perhaps the thing I liked most was the color of the backdrop. The Civil War era really comes to life here and I learned several things about the time I didn't know before.    The subplots and odd lore are nice touches, but after awhile I found myself growing impatient with the plot. The chapters seemed to flow down not-entirely-relevant directions. Still, the setting and story stayed true to the era and was at times really pretty clever. Overall Cold Mountain was a success of writing. It's better than 99% of the other stuff out there.    The only thing I didn't care for was how the main characters seemed to be inhabitants of the 21st Century. The anti-war Inman and the independent-minded Ada struck me as what I would see in 2004 - not what I'd expect in 1864 North Carolina. While true that North Carolina wasn't thrilled about participating in the Civil War, it's still something that struck me as just a little self-conscious. Maybe that's just me. As for the anti-war sentiment itself, I'm pretty certain that Fraiser wasn't alluding that the Civil War shouldn't have been fought. Inman was just lamenting the fact that war had to be waged at all. It's a worthy read.	2004-10-17
US	22052997	R3PRVXVD1WSNNZ	080504695X	713778363	A Rumor of War	Books	4	16	18	N	N	The heart of darkness	Of all the Vietnam narratives I've read, Rumor of War strikes me as the most well-written. Here tells the story of Phillip Caputo, a baby boomer who grew up in the golden years of John F. Kennedy and the sweet success of World War II. Caputo joined the Marines like many others from a sense of patriotism and a desire to prove his toughness. Training instills in him the tradition of the Corps, but as his tour in Vietnam progresses his disillusionment grows.<br /><br />For those who are searching for a glimpse of combat, here it is in all its brutality. Then more than now, Rumor of War provides a unique non-John Wayne view of warfare. This is the real-life 'Heart of Darkness'. Caputo goes from an idealistic American kid to a jaded war vet, all in a few years. As death piles up around him, he descends into the realm of numbness and hate. I firmly believe that what happened to him can and does happen regularly to those under war's grim watch.<br /><br />World War II taught that war can be necessary, 'moral' and profitable as well. Vietnam showed us the other edge of the blade. So, where do we go from here? I imagine many will put down this book with one word on their lips: Iraq. Is that parallel correct? Maybe, maybe not. There are two lessons I hope Rumor of War provides (though the second goes beyond the book's scope). The first lesson is that war is no romantic diversion. Abandon that instinct, for modern war deals death in a horribly random manner. For every hero's death there are twenty ignoble ones. It's a waste. The other - not covered by the book - is that sometimes in history, this savagery of war is an unfortunate necessity.	2004-10-15
US	22052997	R2Q5GPAM0C83MJ	0142437255	303305496	On the Road (Penguin Classics)	Books	3	7	11	N	N	Third-rate classic - timepiece maybe?	On the Road excited me at first. Even for those who barely know of Jack Kerouac, his name is always attached with a type of dusky mystique. After I heard that Kerouac was one of Hunter S. Thompson's influences, I decided to read On the Road, his most well known work.     Frankly, I was really disappointed. I saw what Kerouac was trying to do in On the Road - break up the suffocating routine of the 1950s and also infuse everyday life with a type of mystical quality - but I just didn't care. I wanted to, but I couldn't. The experiment failed for me. These characters struck me as the creation of a two-week, drug-fueled writing binge. Vapid and sloppy, in other words. The plot meanders, though that in itself isn't so uncommon in 2004. What makes it worse is Kerouac's obvious talent. It's frustrating really. The parts of a masterpiece are all there, but they just don't come together for me.     Reading Kerouac is like watching the 1990s Atlanta Braves - forever stuck on the edge of greatness. I think that if Kerouac had taken a step away from the drugs and put a little more craftsmanship into his novel, it would have really refined the message. That isn't selling out. Despite my own opinion on this book, I do recommend you read it. On the Road is a stopover for any culturally literate person, and it will at least broaden your viewpoint. I just wish it had been more interesting. These three stars are more for what this book represents then the actual text itself.	2004-10-08
US	22052997	R1MFQ921EPUH3L	0451524934	337991686	1984 (Signet Classics)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Deserves a spot on every bookshelf	Simply put, 1984 is a masterpiece of satire. It's philosophical, well-written, layered and its message resonates long after reading it. The plot you probably know already but just in case, the modern day world has descended into a totalitarian state, ruled by a near-deified leader named Big Brother. The citizens of this nation live in complete submission to this dictatorship, where even an errant thought can mean torture and death.<br /><br />The issues explored in this text range from love and companionship to more far-reaching questions such as the true needs and desires of humanity. What do we crave more: equality, justice and the pursuit of happiness or just unbridled power and security? The world of 1984 is unveiled through Winston Smith in his attempt to uncover not just the hows of his existence, but the whys. Allusions to Stalin and the U.S.S.R. abound, some more subtle than others. There is enough material present to keep one pondering the ultimate meaning of this book long after you put it down. It is truly one of the ultimate literary accomplishments of the 20th Century.<br /><br />Sadly, perhaps the most widespread contribution of 1984 comes in the form of cliched, sophomoric analogies to the in-power political party of America. I'll say this: civilization comes with advantages and disadvantages. It's a matter of degree, and political correctness is the closest we have to thought crime. If all you can take from this book is ammunition to rip Bush, you've missed one great debate on human desire and the nature of reality.	2004-09-25
US	22052997	R57CEE9CNQ5GM	079222731X	749183392	National Geographic Picture Atlas of Our Universe	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Jarringly beautiful	Besides my own copy, I have never seen another one of these books. It's a shame really, because this book combines information and illustration in the way only National Geographic can. The nine planets of our solar system make up the majority of text material here, which goes a long way in preserving the shelf life of this book.<br /><br />Our Universe begins with a brief history of astronomy entitled from 'Sun Gods to Gamma Rays' and is written in a manner accessible for all ages. Gallant then proceeds to examine our solar system piece by piece, beginning with the sun and then the orbiting planets. Each planet is given its own chapter, complete with graphs of orbital patterns, atmospheric qualities and actual photographs if available. Stunning artwork is peppered throughout, and in my opinion makes this book a treasure.<br /><br />Finally, Our Universe includes chapters on comets, asteroids and meteors, and the various galaxies outside our own Milky Way. It's a book that everyone can enjoy. Adults might learn something new, and the artwork will garner interest in kids to learn more about our universe.	2004-09-13
US	22052997	RYNSLL0054QUR	0684848015	340472252	Citizen Soldiers: The U. S. Army from the Normandy Beaches to the Bulge to the Surrender of Germany	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Your grandfather's war stories put to print	Stephen Ambrose has caught a lot of flack in recent years, but it really doesn't diminish all the solid research he has contributed to the 'War to end all wars'. I was assigned this book for a class on World War II, and I must say that it was by far the best of my texts.    Citizen Soldiers would be best employed as a companion resource to other World War II books. These pages are largely personal accounts and rememberences - events such as the Battle of the Bulge and Normandy are mainly backdrops to the individual experiences of these citizen soldiers. Since these events are not explained like one would see in a school book, a basic knowledge of World War II and the European campaigns helps immensely. It should be noted that this is book is not comprehensive, nor does it ever make the claim.     The reason Citizen Soldiers should be read is simple: it reveals the human element of World War II. We're all familiar with D-Day, the Holocaust, the Nazis and the Allies, but who were these people? Why did they fight? What did they endure mentally and emotionally on the way to becoming the 'Greatest Generation'? Citizen Soldiers answers this question as best as it can be. Also, light is shed on the conditions of front-line soldiers, nurses and medics, and blacks in a segregated army. Ike, Patton, Monty and scores of ordinary soldiers step forward to tell their tales, and for a time here old memories breathe once again.	2004-09-11
US	22052997	R21ZXYK2T9OK45	0671027360	141370518	Angels & Demons	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Good popular fiction	I don't normally read much 'mainstream fiction', but Angels and Demons was definitely worth the time. The plot was fast-paced, full of twists and did a good job weaving in several different storylines into one good ending. In spite of the abundant action, there are some surprisingly poignant moments in the book. <br /> <br />Though I wish some of the characters had been more developed, that fact does not take much away from the sum product here. The ending was pretty wild - and I'm encouraged to read the Da Vinci Code now. Probably what will remain with me most after this book was the sheer glut of information and 'color'(CERN, Vatican architecture, the Illuminati). <br /> <br />Also, the old adage is right: the best villans are those we can understand.	2004-09-03
US	22052997	R29EK2PSVGH3CP	0553287893	458314472	Rendezvous with Rama	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Entertaining and at times educational	For those who enjoyed Childhood's End by A.C. Clarke, Rendevous with Rama promises more of the same qualities. Space exploration, alien encounters and political infighting all make an appearance here. Though I thought that the characters were a bit flat and contrived, the plot and scenery have enough clever nuances to make that flaw an afterthought.     Considering that there is not much 'Hollywood' action in this book, I was impressed at how well the story moves by its own subdued style. Discovery, insight and science are peppered expertly throughout the book, making it so there are no stretches of dry reading.     All in all, Rendevous with Rama is worth your time. If you consider yourself a science fiction aficionado, it should have a place on your bookshelf. I personally preferred Childhood's End over this one, but I wasn't disappointed. For those Rama junkies out there, check out the PC video game 'Rama' that came out in the mid-90s. Obsolete by today's standards, but the hard core fan base would enjoy the visual realization of this book.	2004-08-16
US	22052997	R22L50NPPBG6JT	0345342968	383457570	Fahrenheit 451	Books	5	2	2	N	N	If you like reading, you'll like this book	I like books that teach me things. Fahrenheit 451 is similar to other books like 1984 and Brave New World, where humanity is just a shell of what it used to be. However, 451 presents a problem much more slippery and troubling than 1984 in my mind. How do you help someone who doesn't want to be helped?<br />Bradbury's prose takes a little getting used to, but his message needs to be understood. It's a message that grows more important everyday, with classics being exchanged for cliff notes and books being banned because they offend someone (huck finn, uncle tom's cabin, catcher in the rye). This is the first step to Bradbury's nightmare, culminating in the thought 'Everyone must be equal - not like the Constitution states - but *made* equal'.<br />Editorializing a bit here, 451 represents to me the ultimate victory of things like MTV, reality television and political correctness. Humanity is reduced to one plastic mold - through laziness or censorship - and everyone is loving it. These characters don't realize how empty their lives are; instead of working out problems everyone retreats into their own world. Instead of attempting to answer humanity's most profound question, the world of 451 pretends they don't exist.<br />One last thing: Clarisse is a trip - her character really catches a living quality I don't see often in books. With Fahrenheit 451, I learned a lot.	2004-06-07
US	22052997	R3V20G0E4D9SWA	0679642811	448968193	The Crisis of Islam: Holy War and Unholy Terror	Books	4	8	10	N	N	Unpleasant Truths, Troubling Possibilities	What drew me to this book is probably what attracts the majority to this subject: finding out more of how terrorism, 9/11, and Islam fit together. I hear about how bin Laden and groups like the Taliban refer to themselves as 'true practitioners of Islam', and I wonder where that belief stems from. Bernard Lewis does an excellent job of shedding light on this perspective.<br />First, an overview of Islam is presented. The Prophet Mohammed, the pillars of the Muslim faith, and the central role the Koran plays in Muslim society is shown. Later, it is shown that despots, dwindling opportunities, less money, the failure of Islamic nationalism, and the inescapable plenty of the West is making the Arab world more and more desperate. Bin Laden offers a solution to all these things via his fundamentalist causes and beliefs. In a hopeless world, people look to the man who says 'I have the answer'. Some follow.<br />This is not a flag-waving, chest-beating book. Lewis does not attack the religion, which is more repect than some here afford the author. His examples are all public record. He is careful to state that not all Muslims are inherently terrorists, nor are they all intolerant radicals. But these do exist, as does the potential for many more. The theme here isn't 'America's the greatest, sucker'. It digs deeper than the Chomsky arguments, suck as the Palestinian/Israel conflict and the unwavering wrongness of America. It was an educational book, and in my opinion even-handed. You will learn more. Also, discovering why we are called \\"The Great Satan\\" was really fascinating. Maybe they hate our (sexual) freedoms after all.	2004-04-19
US	22052997	R3QD0VOA3NDCA1	0140288503	189891237	Black Hawk Down: A Story of Modern War	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Intelligent - Excellent	One would think that the US military would not be a fan of this book, since it covers a costly incursion of American Special Forces. Curiously, the military has embraced Black Hawk Down, eager to learn more about what went right and what went wrong in Modadishu. Through Vietnam-haunted movies, many people think of the military as incompetent, arrogant, stupid or just cold-blooded. Black Hawk Down's greatest contribution is a rebuke of those qualities.<br />The book follows the lives of the men who went into Somolia with the goal of capturing Warlord Aidid. Politics and why's are just briefly presented; Bowden focuses on the soldiers as they fight their way home through the city. He portrays them as real and human people, the fighting spirits of America. These are husbands, sons, brothers and friends - Bowden stresses that fact above all else. They are not perfect. Somolian perspective is given a voice in the book, but the soldiers are the main point of view. <br />Bowden said that he wanted to document the battle in the manner of a novel. He reports on the event like a journalist with an even hand. The city and the people are real and tangible, given dimensions that the movie fails to capture. The sheer amount of soldiers involved can be confusing at times, but Bowden does the best that can be done with it. The afterword presents the author's thoughts on the event and its repercussions, but at no time does he judge the actions of the soldiers on the ground. If you want to see the realities facing America and her military in the 21st Century, I cannot recommend this book highly enough.	2004-04-04
US	22052997	RMH1JEUX764ED	0156013029	735283391	About the Author: The Passionate Reader's Guide to the Authors You Love, Including Things You Never Knew, Juicy Bits You'll Want to Know, and Hundreds of Ideas for What to Read Next	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Pretty Good - Light Read	For those who want to learn more about the men and women behind the curtains of their favorite book, About the Author provides a solid, general introduction. Around 125 writers are reviewed here; the information about them is presented in the same format throughout the book. A brief overview of the author's life is given first, followed by a section entitled &quot;Good to Know&quot;. Trivia and interesting facts are listed here. Next, an overview of the author's works, recommendations of the author's best books and links to other resources (Author Societies, other books and websites covering the subject of the writer). Sidebars present an image of the author, family and date of birth and death.<BR>The information given doesn't delve too deeply into any one person, but this book never claimed to be comprehensive. It is instead a guide to juicy bits of information. It does this well. One thing I didn't quite understand how it was decided on which author to include and which to leave out in the book. There seems to be a lean toward 20th Century writers than &quot;classical&quot; authors like Shakespeare and Hugo. I've listed out the authors included below.<br />I was hoping for a few more anecdotes on each of these writers. If you have read biographies or articles on a certain author here, you are probably familiar with the information within. The sheer number of writers present, however, makes this book worty a look.<br />*Some* of the Authors included:<br />Jane Austen, James Baldwin, Ann Beattie, Saul Bellow, T.C. Boyle, Truman Capote, Lewis Carroll, Ray Chandler, John Cheever, Agatha Christie, Tom Clancy, Mary Higgins Clark, Conrad, Pat Conroy, Patricia Cornwell, Michael Crichton, Don DeLillo, Dickens, Ralph Ellison, Faulkner, F. Scott Fitzgerald, John Grisham, Joseph Heller, Hemingway, Zora Neale Hurston, John Irving, C.S. Lewis, Jan Karon, Norman Mailer, Toni Morrison, Mario Puzo, J.K Rowling, Salinger, Danielle Steel, Tolkein, Tolstoy, Twain, John Updike, Vonnegut, Thomas Wolfe, Virginia Woolf	2004-03-21
US	22052997	R349E4JID70JWH	0684856476	219231016	The Rum Diary: A Novel	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Not bad for a first novel	Thompson's first book follows the life of a 31-year old news reporter and his exploits in San Juan, Puerto Rico. The plot documents the woes of burned-out coworkers, jealous lovers, and American businessmen living on the island.     What I enjoyed about this book is the insightful descriptions of San Juan and the people living there. The landscape really breathes - more so than the characters. The people are not very memorable, save for Moburg and perhaps the woman Chenault. The plot doesn't drag, but isn't always interesting.    Fans of Thompson's prose (ie. Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas) should not expect much of liquid description of later works. There are glimpses of what will follow in Hell's Angels and Fear and Loathing, but these are only flashes of brilliance in a rookie novel. All things considered, this novel is best for hard-core Hunter Thompson fans; it is worth the read but is not his peak work.	2004-03-14
US	22052997	R3PWAPQXQIXZUH	0451526104	835712680	This Side of Paradise	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Great First Novel, but uneven	Fitzgerald's first novel, this book is a character description of one Amory Blaine. In terms of plot, there doesn't seem to be one - at least in the traditional sense. A lot of things happen, such as Amory's romantic exploits and induction to Princeton University.     The best thing about 'This Side of Paradise' is its beautifully-written prose. The description and narrative are poetic, almost sugary. That is what makes this book worth reading. Also included is insight into the times of turn-of-the-century America and the images summoned at the mention of the Roaring 20s. World War I, speakeasies, flannel suits and ballroom dancing are all events Amory experiences. If you've read the Great Gatsby, this would be a good follow-up book.    Note: There are a few typos present in this book. The omission of the word 'gods' on page 287 is by far the worst.	2004-03-14
US	22052997	R3W223COOK3SIQ	0810928280	791476935	Van Gogh: The Passionate Eye (Discoveries Series)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Wish More Books Were Like This	Beautiful illustrations and layout are the main features of this book. Van Gogh's biography makes up most of the text for this book. His paintings, sketches, and various photographs are inset within the text where appropiate; masterpieces such as 'Starry Night Over the Rhone' and 'Wheat Fields Under Clouded Skies' are given entire pages.<br />Some of Van Gogh's letters to his brother Theo are given a section of the appendix, along with a section detailing the man's legacy today. The book itself is smaller than normal - easy to pack away for trips. If your passion is Van Gogh, then Van Gogh: The Passionate Eye is for you.	2004-01-19
US	22052997	R2VO1TJGGYMWOX	0812694333	476681057	The Simpsons and Philosophy: The D'oh! of Homer (Popular Culture and Philosophy)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	You not like this book? That's unpossible!	Any true Simpsons fan will recognize that as tribute to Ralph Wiggum's &quot;Me fail english? That's unpossible!&quot; line. Reading The D'oh of Homer, you will recognize the subtle humor that has become a trademark of the series. The book is split into essays covering a goodly range of topics, each of which reference specific Simpsons episodes and characters to make their arguments.<br />Largely unpretentious and entertaining as philosophy can probably get is the deal here. An inadvertant plus to this book is that the reader can see philosophic models thousands of years old implented into modern day situations via the Simpsons episodes they know so well. Philosophies of government, religion, and humanity are displayed here, along with subjects that don't get much play elsewhere, such as American anti-intelletualism and the parody. If you are a regular watcher of the Simpsons, chances are you already have the subject material committed to heart; this book reveals the school of thought behind the more profound concepts of the show.<br />All in all, this book is definitely worth a look. Check it out.	2004-01-14
US	22052997	RG3NEHVTAHCLS	0471881414	410115298	Science, Technology and the Nuclear Arms Race	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Excellent Book for Everyone - Easy to Comprehend	I thoroughly enjoyed this book. When it comes to the technology surrounding nuclear weapons, many people assume that it is much too complicated a topic to ever understand. This book provides indepth study of what occurs physically when a nuclear weapon is detonated. Schroeer goes on to examine the history and political aspects of the nuclear age, ranging from the physical effects of the Hiroshima bomb to the theories of Robert MacNamara to the Mutually Assured Destruction scenario.    Timely subjects for the post-9/11 world are covered as well, such as ballistic missle defense, arms control/nuclear proliferation, and civil defense against weapons of mass destruction. Further chapters examine biological and chemical weapons such as anthrax and VX nerve gas.     What I enjoyed most about this book is that a person with a non-scientific background can understand the subject matter. There is such a panopoly of knowledge present here, it is a real tribute to the talent that went into writing this book. I cannot recommend it highly enough.	2004-01-13
US	22052997	R2S5QK7S78SWZA	1550223577	978180264	The Long Slow Death of Jack Kerouac	Books	2	1	1	N	N	Too Brief, but there are High Points	This book tackles the subject of Jack Kerouac. After reading this text, I found myself asking \\"Is that it?\\" These are literally the shortest chapters I have ever seen, with several of them spanning only 2 or 3 pages. Compared with the other biographies I've read, this one is too brief and, in a place or two, seems to draw primarily from heresay.<br />What I liked about this book was that it gave Kerouac a dimension of humanity. Too many biographies dissect their subjects with a mortician's instinct, and succeed in removing those people any trace of humanity they possessed in life - who they loved, hated, and what their failings were. For hard-core Kerouac fans, this book should be read, but only in addition to other Kerouac biographies to fill the holes in this one.	2004-01-12
US	22052997	R15URYVH8RY40L	0744001404	134452549	Final Fantasy X Official Strategy Guide (Brady Games Signature Series)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Thorough	Talk about leaving no stone unturned. This strategy guide covers absolutely everything about Final Fantasy X, from the various enemies you come across through the game to the battle skills that can be learned by your characters. <br />Beautiful illustration and layout are the norm for this book. There really is no substitution.	2004-01-11
US	22052997	R2ZB9PV7HKALKU	0140513639	827404325	The Penguin Dictionary of Literary Terms and Literary Theory (Penguin Dictionary)	Books	4	14	16	N	N	Comprehensive and Cheap	This dictionary is a very good reference tool for almost every literary concept and movement imaginable. Topics such as 'deconstruction', 'satire' and 'irony' all receive several pages in this text. The sheer amount of information in this dictionary is mind-boggling.<br />I recommend this book for those who need a concise, to-the-point definition and exploration of literary movements, literary jargon, and about specific genres.	2004-01-11
US	22052997	R3O550MAN7AR9J	0521794315	547927432	The Cambridge Illustrated History of Warfare (Cambridge Illustrated Histories)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Good Overview of Warfare	This book provides a good first glance at the various stages of warfare that have come and gone throughout human history, from Greek Hoplites to guerilla warfare. The illustrations in this book are very beautiful and informative, and a number of insets provide interesting factoids.<br />This book is ideally suited for those wanting a good overview of the history of warfare. Be forewarned, though, that this book should not be used as a reference except for general facts in the history of warfare. Battle formations, major skirmishes and important people make up the majority of the content. Smaller details are not included, for the most part.<br />Overall, this is a great book to own. I bought it for a college course a few years back and kept it afterwards. This is a good starting-off point for any interested in military history.	2004-01-09
US	22052997	R3UX0OQS09UPTU	0385494785	82772270	Into Thin Air: A Personal Account of the Mt. Everest Disaster	Books	4	2	3	N	N	When Nature Puts the Smack-Down	It's easy to forget how powerful nature really is, what with all the modern technological advances. This book is a very well-put together account of what happens to people following the \\"What could possibly go wrong? It could never happen to me.\\" philosophy.<br />Krakauer provides informative insights to the people that climbed Everest that year, along with good presentation of the mountain climber culture. The Everest landscape is well crafted, and manages to capture the history and some of the society surrounding the mountain. If you liked the Perfect Storm, you should check out Into Thin Air.	2004-01-09
US	22052997	ROUXCWIA2NESE	0571129722	771210507	Money for Nothing: Greed and Exploitation in the Music Industry	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Dated but Still Entertaining and Informative	There are few constant things in this world. Nations rise and fall, trends come and go. One thing remains constant in this ever-changing flow: the exploitation of musicians by the Recording Industry. This book presents a series of vignettes dealing with well-known rock stars getting burned, created, used, and destroyed by all-powerful record moguls.<br />The Beatles, Wham!, and the Who are some of the better-known bands that grace these pages. Through these bands, you will see that the Recording Industry has put much thought, effort and money into maintaining absolute control over the music that reaches your ears, via radio or CD. This book was written in the mid 1980's - well before the era of Napster or Clear Channel - and as such many of today's most interesting issues are not found here. <br />However, Money for Nothing provides good illumination into the Music Industry's past behavior and gives insight into the mentality that has declared a war on its own constituents in the name of stamping out \\"music piracy\\".	2004-01-09
US	22052997	R3EWDLMC9S48D2	157322751X	144250243	Shakespeare: The Invention of the Human	Books	1	30	54	N	N	The Ivory Tower was never taller	With all the love Harold Bloom expresses for Shakespeare's work, he really gives a shallow exploration of the Bard's work in this book. Each play receives a couple of pages here, but I found many of them too brief and uninformative. A quote: \\"We would be very different [w/o Shakespeare], because we would think and feel and speak differently. Our ideas would be different, particularly our ideas of the human, since they were, more often than not, his ideas before they were our own.\\"    This quote underlines a faulty premise: Bloom seems to believe that Shakespeare 'invented' the modern man. No. Shakespeare reflects the modern man. He was in touch with the human spirit shared by everyone, and articulated the things we all feel. He didn't 'invent' anything...he expressed it. If Shakespeare were alive today, I tend to think that this idolizing account would leave him shaking his head. I'm on Bloom's fighting side, but I did not agree with his views here. He takes a truth and pushes it so far that it becomes an untruth, which happens also to be T.S. Elliot's definition of a fanatic.    Bloom elevates Shakespeare to the level of near-mythical proportions instead of as a human being who accepted and loved humanity, warts and all. As I understand it, Shakespeare was accessible to even the most uneducated people of his time. This book unconsciously dehumanized Shakespeare and tries to put the man in an ivory tower, where wit isn't shared - it's delegated. This book simply goes too far.	2004-01-09
US	22052997	R1KGR24EY0C5C5	0471247758	202269881	The Corporate Intranet, 2nd Edition	Books	1	3	3	N	N	Glorified Brochure for Intranets	Let's clarify what this book is, and what it is not. This text is concept and theory - nothing more. Though ridiculously out-of-date in 2004, many techies are looking for methods/tutorials to set up a corporate intranet. This is not the book for you. This book should be purchased for non-technical supervisors and MBA's who need more to be informed of the why's then the how's of an intranet.<br />This is far from the realm of the O'Reilly series. Those books present snippets of code, step-by-step learning, and in general provide good exposure to the hands-on part of creating workable programming, networking, etc. Here, you have the best reasons 1998 has to offer for why your business should employ an intranet.	2004-01-07
US	22052997	R3D9K2KLQ1B7U6	1573226521	117734468	The Beach	Books	2	1	4	N	N	Eh.........	It wasn't a bad book, really, but it didn't do much for me. I found myself thinking 'Lord of the Flies' the entire time I was reading about young Richard and his exploits. If this book is in your 'Maybe Read' pile, I'd say just watch the movie with Leonardo DiCaprio. The scenery there is awesome and more relationships develop on screen than in the book. Most of the movie follows the book in lockstep. There is some crazy violence in the book that didn't make it to the big screen, however.<br />You never know - you might like it. For me, though, it was a fairly unmemorable book.	2004-01-07
US	22052997	R1SWDIQ26ZKZ02	0672317842	387194651	PHP and MySQL Web Development	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Easy to Follow and Comprehend	With this book, I was able to start programming PHP almost immediately. I've had some previous computer programming experience, but this book covers the main PHP concepts in a way that's really easy to understand for anyone. <br />The MySQL section is also well-written, and the appendixes are pretty thorough in the installation of Apache, PHP, and MySQL. If you want to set up an e-commerce site using PHP and MySQL, you can't go wrong buying this book.	2004-01-07
US	22052997	R18RYMZ3W2L95D	0345347951	589013680	Childhood's End	Books	3	4	7	N	N	Science as religion	This book probably makes many people uncomfortable. There are a number of thoughts present that openly challenge religion, nationality and the sense of superiority that humanity possesses at times. Ultimately, the clever way in which these concepts were interwoven made for a good story. After reading this book, I realized that Darwinism is much, much more than a scientific theory for some. It is a worldview...and I will always remember this book as an example of that.    The problem that hinders this text is the same as many of those stories that span across several generations. A constant influx of characters are introduced to the reader, and being this book is only ~230 pages, we can only briefly meet them. This prevents us from forming deep emotional bonds with the characters. These men and women are really only window dressing to the sweeping changes that are encompassing mankind.    I would recommend this book to those that enjoy looking at things from new and different perspectives, although these same perspectives are often deeply flawed and arrogant when you think about it. If you desire to learn more about human nature, Clarke's thoughts cover a wide range of human wants and emotions, leaving the reader with ideas wonderous, sobering, fulfilling and bittersweet. But perhaps, fiction is where Darwinism should stay.	2004-01-07
US	22052997	R3MBR28LO27MCY	0679785892	58271710	Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas: A Savage Journey to the Heart of the American Dream	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Bad Craziness, Great Read	Best opening line ever. From start to finish, this book was an enthralling read. I've never been to Las Vegas before, but through the good Doctor's searing style and wit, the landscape blooms for the reader with booming clarity. There are really so many reasons to read this book, what with the curious perspectives, revelations of the time, and glimpses into the alternately foreboding/humorous side of drugs.<br />The movie - while good - doesn't hold a candle to the book. Do yourself a favor and check out the wildness this book details. If you like F. Scott Fitzgerald, read this book. If you like Tom Wolfe, read this book. The style and the flair of this writing provides a welcome breath of fresh air into an art form that too often is made up of pseudo-intellectual posers.<br />One warning: if you consider yourself 'prudish' or are prone to moral indignation, this book might not be for you. Disregard for all personal well-being dwells within.	2004-01-06
US	22052997	R3T5BWGOYJ92WU	0252068920	880830327	On Guerrilla Warfare	Books	3	4	8	N	N	Surprising	Before reading this book, I thought guerilla warfare consisted of a farmer firing off his shotgun at passing helicopters. Mao's text reveals a great deal more planning, thought and organization must go into conducting a successful insurgency. Short and to the point, this book is a surprising modern account of employing guerilla warfare against a more powerful enemy. Some, though not all, of these strategies can be seen in America's intervention in Iraq.<br />One thing worth noting: this text is by and large theoretical. This was Mao's intention it seems, so those who expect to see indepth analysis of real battles might be disappointed. Through the text, Mao does reference several campaigns that buttress his arguments, but chances are they will be unfamiliar to a non-military history buff. It will require your own effort and thinking to observe these guerilla tactics in battles familiar to Americans, such as in Vietnam and Afghanistan.	2004-01-06
US	22052997	R1M0FIZTPNV9YF	0517053616	420218883	William Shakespeare: The Complete Works, Deluxe Edition	Books	3	60	71	N	N	Book for Shelf - Not Terribly Accessible Shakespeare	I originally bought this book used and later discovered that this was the ideal situation. It is handy to have all of Shakespeare's works (plays and sonnets) under one cover, but there are several drawbacks. Each page is split into two columns, causing the plays to be read like a newspaper. Since linebreaks are important in Shakespeare (remember the iambic pentameter), some lines are too long for the margins, causing the remaining words to hover like ghosts away from the sentence.<br />Also, this book contains no footnotes. This is mainly how buying the individual play is superior to the collected works. Olde English isn't always intuitive, and this particular book leaves you to find out a word's meaning for yourself.<br />But this book certainly looks pretty on your shelf. :)	2004-01-06
US	22052997	R3T16K14OOVA3H	0517219018	825352881	The Stand (Modern Classics)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Stephen King book for Non-Stephen King Fans	As I understand it, Stephen King wrote The Stand after reading Lord of the Rings. Here you will find the same epic qualities: final confrontation with an ancient evil, the following of multiple viewpoints, and a variety of scenes and landscapes. <br />What made this book intriguing for me is the realistic premise - i.e. the World wiped out by a manmade super-virus. Seeing civilization implode from the safety of your home always makes interesting fiction. One thing that really drew me into this book was King's use of real locations around the country: New York, Las Vegas, Boulder and the Jersey Turnpike were among those present. The religious war that broke out between the survivors was pretty well written, too. I recommend this book for the sheer joy of reading it. <br />The only bad thing I can think to say is that although I really enjoyed reading it, I really didn't learn anything I didn't know before picking it up. Still, that's the case with a great number of books people read. Don't let that stop you here.	2004-01-05
US	22052997	RJTVM00EAE61M	0393318672	154350783	The Ugly American	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Required Reading for the Post 9/11 Era	The Vietnam War is well-known for its anti-war literature. I picked up this book with the impression that it would recite the usual 'we had no business over there' mantras. However, this book is neither anti-war nor anti-American. Instead of simply stating that the U.S. was wrong, this book takes an indepth look at errors in strategies, both politically and militarily, via a fictional Southeast Asian country (some sections are fiction; others are based on actual events).    The lessons purported are simple for Americans abroad: learn the culture, learn the language and respect the religion so you don't inadvertantly burn the locals. Maybe this isn't such a big deal for a tourists' two-week trip to Paris, but these lessons are definitely important in a situation for Americans staying long periods in a foreign country such as, say, American troops in Iraq. With the emphasis of winning the hearts and minds in the Middle East post 9/11, The Ugly American is a very timely book.    If this book were one of Aesop's fables, the moral would be: 'You catch more flies with honey.'	2004-01-05
US	22052997	RNYASWDZGWT9C	0553380648	377895949	The Electric Kool-Aid Acid Test	Books	3	3	8	N	N	Should be read, despite writing style	This should be read along with Hunter Thompson's 'Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas'. Many colorful characters are found in this book. Often I've been curious about what made the 60's \\"the 60's\\" and this book shines a light on a the roots of the American psychedelic movement. In terms of American literature, this book picks up where Kerouac's On The Road left off (Neal Cassady's in this one too).<br />I've always been lukewarm to Tom Wolfe's writing style. Too often, the story suffers from unwanted intercessions of the writer. Having an author literally shout to his own characters \\"Run, you fool!\\" and \\"What do we learn from this?\\" is really an unwise writing trick. Very distracting and pointless, really.<br />At its best, this book manages to capture a time period - peripherals and all. At its worst, it's dull and skim-worthy.	2004-01-02
