US	22055367	R2T7WKYRQRD27V	0786880708	795743807	Wherever You Go, There You Are: Mindfulness Meditation in Everyday Life	Books	5	46	52	N	N	Inspirational for Others interested in Meditations ... but you have to be ready to read about the topic first though	This is a book you have to be ready to read in order to get the benefit out of it.  You will either think it is just scribbles of others' notes.  Or you will think that it is a masterpiece.  I bought this book sitting on my shelf a year ago.  Why?  Because at that point of my life I could not stop my racing thoughts (the need to do something all the time) enough to experience what the author - Jon Kabat-Zinn, tries to communicate.  Some how, life turned around a little (probably when I started reading Eckart Tolle's books).  My thought pattern starts slowing down and I start living in the present moment with consciousness of thoughts.  A year later, I pick up this book again and start reading.  Suddenly, it is truly a bundle of joy.  It is a book I would like to read when I am at the coffee shop or even just to enjoy a great Saturday afternoon.  I feel that this book is truly a rare jewel you find on Earth.  The author picks up the most delicate moment where human beings can meditate.  He gives me great inspiration/ways to slow down thoughts/thinking. <br /> <br />But again, meditations, staying in the present moment isn't something we need to read a lot about.  We can read on the world's greatest books and still not able to find peace and joy in life.  Just like what the author had said in one chapter.  One can jump from one teacher to another looking for salvation from the outside.  However, it is working on the inner self, focusing on the inner thoughts and patterns that rise one's mindful/peaceful thinking to the next level (yet rising just means further centering and grounding).    <br /> <br />From experience, it is about letting the human ego die every day and letting go of fear and judgement.  Letting go of the seemingly unbearable pain and attachment.  It is truly about having full awareness of thoughts and beliefs and process those things on a piece of paper/therapist.  Then, sooner or later, one will find a taste of what mindfulness truly mean.  You mightstill endure physical pain because of illness.  But the pain gets easier every day when we are aware of our mind and body. <br /> <br />This is a book to experience.  Speed-reading will not help you to taste what the author is trying to offer. <br />	2005-09-27
US	22055367	R1I5HXOZ25F9CQ	1844830993	163552439	Celtic Inspirations: Essential Meditations and Texts	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A Hidden Treasure	This book, the Celtic Inspirations by Lyn Webster Wilde, is a hidden treasure I found in the bookstore the other day.  The pictures and art work displayed are so beautiful, unique and artistic.  They are reflections of simple inspirations/teachings of the Celtic traditions. <br /> <br />It is a book to ponder, a book to sit in and experience.  Starring at just the pictures, drawings on its own while you are taking a bath can be soothing and relaxing. <br /> <br />But if you are looking for a guide/book to explain things all, giving you a formula of fixing your life problems, this book isn't for you.  This book is more for a viewing pleasure and introduce calmness in life.  Re-reading, re-starring the pictures can be a different way to meditate/calming the mind down from a hectic day.	2005-08-26
US	22055367	R23N24TD74UHN8	1577310764	496310943	Echoes of the Soul: The Soul's Journey Beyond the Light - Through Life, Death, and Life After Death	Books	5	4	11	N	N	A book with much healing/comfort to the souls	I am not a meta-physicist and I do not hold a degree in mediumship nor a degree in the science of God.  So, for me to debate what Echo says is the Divine truth or not in my position is nonsense.  I hold some similar beliefs about the souls' evolution as Echo, with the following exceptions:    1. I do not believe there is a physical dimension (probably she is referring it to the spiritual/meta-physical energy realm) outside the Earth that holds the soul.  Since she is a Clairvoyant, I believe she transformed what she sensed there through images.  That is why she has a vivid description about realm of heaven.    2. I think in one level, spirit guides and angels do exist.  From a science perspective, this is probably the unconscious mind becoming conscious (through journeying, communication to ourselves, soul searching, etc).  Consciousness projects deep life lessons through images of spirit guides and angels.        3. I also go through some debates around whether one soul incarnates for indefinite times till their souls learn all the lessons the large white light (the nature, the Universe, God) is trying to teach (meta-physical energy... from my view... which is the small white light she talks about).  My gut tells me that souls are metaphysical energy.  These energy remains in the body till the day they die.  This energy goes through many rounds of psychological deaths (being transformed) base on life lessons we learnt in one lifetime.  That is why people feel like their old self died many times even in one life time.  Similar metaphysical energy attracts each other during life times and after the physical life ended.  The after-life energies join together as a partnership to enter the next life.  The human body is a vehicle to transform the energies from anger, fear, resentment, judgment to love, compassion, understanding, joy, peace and harmony.  In my opinion, that is how we feel like we are talented and learnt certain things without this life's experience ... because these souls/meta-physical energy had joint together, evolved and incarnated so many times and know/sensed many things in previous lives.          But again, the above are just my thoughts and opinions.  I don't count it as the Divine truths either till I learn more in my future readings.  For now, instead of debating what Echo says is true, false, partially true/false, I would review this book base on what emotional energy this book is trying to communicate to mankind.    I still give this book 5 stars even I am in doubt of whether the facts about heaven and the evolutions of the souls are true or not.  I believe Echo wrote this book with a pure sense of love, compassion and the intention of healing.  She wrote this book to bring comfort to many living beings on Earth.  She wrote this book to bring healing energy for the living souls that are about to leave.  Imagine how hard it is for a human being to experience deaths on their own or on their loved ones' death?  Well, this book in the bare minimum provides great comfort for one to feel they will be in peace/at ease during the birth and death process.  Yes, healthy skepticism of what Echo says is good because we challenge, and we ask questions around spirituality instead of just accepting whatever people says to us (which is why some people ask questions why they are not happy because they have blind faith around spirituality and religions).  But to just banish what Echo says because skepticism and human doubts are nonsense.  Just because we never open up our mind and heart to experience heaven does not mean it does not exist in the spiritual realm (maybe it is not seven levels of heaven ... but the seven levels teach us how to use this one human body to evolve and to learn).  Just because we cannot find a definite answer today where our loved ones go after they die does not mean what Echo says is true or false.      It is better to have some reasonings/understandings of tough life situations.  It is better to stir ourselves to realize the lessons life is trying to teach us to evolve.  The biggest thing is about learning, transforming and growing.  Echo's book here can be a great aid to facilitate just that.    The truth is... many people who have life challenges will earn comfort and feeling better when they read Echo's book.  The truth is ... many people can gain a sense of serenity through this book.  This is again the reason I without a doubt give this book 5 stars.  She did a fabulous job in providing healing energy to mankind.     If you know someone who is in the dying process or you are trying to cope with the death of your loved ones, adopting the belief of this book will heal and help you accept the reality.  This is why many people earn comfort through past-life regression through life challenges... where people still could not verify whether past-life regression is just a hallucination/subconscious mind that connects to the nature, time and space talking.  The evolutions of the soul, the echoes of the souls, past-lives theories, are many ways for human beings to understand lives to be a better person.  It is like alternative medicines and spiritual healings.  Nobody in today's world can explain why these methods work for certain individuals.  But it works for many to earn comfort.    Thank you to the author.  Reading Echo's books is just a pleasure as always to open up human minds/hearts.  It is rare to find a psychic writing books, speaking with so much love and compassion for the good of others.  I honestly have not seen that many psychics around channel that much love and compassion without boosting self-importance/ego around himself/herself.  And ... yes, Echo has shown many of us how to let go of self-importance/ego and just provide love and joy to self and others.  Her life, her words have just given me so much inspirations and curiosity.  This is so cool.	2005-08-25
US	22055367	R3AFF93UD23K9B	1591791510	846441273	Shamanic Journeying	Books	5	60	62	N	N	Simple and Great Overview of Shamanic Journeying	This book is very simple to read and to understand for beginners of Shamanic Journeying.  I still believe one book won't explain all in this topic.  However, it is a great start and it is like a children book.  I thought the CD is exceptionally helpful for the sake of journeying.  I had a great opportunity doing real-life shamanic journeying with a Shaman in town where he would play the drum and ask us to lay down, relax and journey.  The drum beats in the CD are pretty similar to my real-life experience... though I would still prefer the real-life druming if given an opportunity. <br /> <br />Journeying is a great way to tap into our subconsious mind receiving answers of life through communication to spirit guides.  I don't think one will see the benefit immediately after one journeying.  But over time, and over the aid of a loving and compassionate therapist (and/or supportive friends and family) who has knowledge about mindfulness and Shamanism, one can be gain benefits around dealing with Chronic and emotional pain.	2005-08-22
US	22055367	R14Q7057O802BF	1932031693	509859176	Reflections On The Nature Of God	Books	5	9	10	N	N	A book that evidence the miracle of the nature in words and pictures...	I went to the book store yesterday and picked up this book for my own viewing pleasure.  The words are very inspiring and I am so drawn to the pictures at the same time.  The pictures are evidence about the nature - animals, plants, the stars, the universe, etc.  The pictures are so delicate and so vivid, with loving, kind and gentle words behind.    What a way to create some peaceful moment when you just had a hectic day.  I will highly recommend reading this book with the little ones too.  This book gives reader/viewers a sense of wonder about the loving nature.  Books like this is a true reflection of nature... through the eyes of pure love and compassion.	2005-08-21
US	22055367	R2RENGDMUOBAMF	1577312058	712607693	The Gift: Understand and Develop Your Psychic Abilities	Books	5	36	44	N	N	An eye-opening view of the psychics' work	I listened to two sets of the CDs (One is opening psychic abilities and the other set is about intuition) created by Echo Bodine prior to reading this book.  It is a joyful experience to listen to Echo (I tune to her radio talk show sometimes too!).  Her CDs and books finally make me realize psychics are not crazy.  There are con artists around just like any other professions.  But not all psychics are.  I met two real psychics before and they do real work to help others.  They bring awareness to people's choices in life during difficult times.  The true psychics help you invite love and compassion.  They create a space and show you the available options by talking to your soul and spirit guides as well as your deceased loved ones.   <br /> <br />I love the way Echo talks and write.  She has a very friendly style and helped me learn that human's natural gift of seeing, hearing and sensing.  I especially adore the section when she talks about the Bible, and the prophets described.  It touches my heart for me to realize all along in life, I had pre-judged psychics as the evil spirits.  Only then I realize all along I did not see messages clear about God, our souls, intuition and spriit guides.  What she said makes sense.  True prophets (Shamans, Psychics, etc) are the ones who bring information to human beings to be prepared to life challenges.  Not because they can change/avoid disappointment from happening.  But with such information coming ahead of time, human beings are prepared to handle life with a higher consiousness which is full of love, kindness and appreciation.  It is not the disappointment itself that matters.  We cannot run away just because we foresee what is coming from the future.  But it is how we respond to disappointments that matters.  Psychics' gift helps us learn more about ourselves, others and the life situations for the evolution of spiritual growth. <br /> <br />Again, I really appreciate the author writing this book.  It gives me lots of comfort and now I feel honored to be around gifted individuals.  Echo's books are treasures.  I think one addition to develop psychic and intuition gift is about centering and breathing.  I saw two real psychics doing fabulous jobs by returning to the center and return to the breath.  Yes, the power of meditations, centering and breath work helps people to open up psychically.  Meditations, centering and breathing helps others respond well towards psychic attacks.	2005-08-16
US	22055367	RB0W3828SHN0I	1929642504	51266183	Checkmate: The Games Men Play	Books	5	46	51	N	N	The Ultimate Checklist to Identify Players	First of all, I really appreciate authors like Mr. Crutcher openly wrote a book about the games men played in the dating arena.  Mr. Crutcher has a fun, yet a compassionate tone when he was writing this book.  Checkmate: The Games Men Play is one of those books that offer a checklist for women to identify players.  It must not be easy for Mr. Crutcher to face and confront his past of being a player, suffering from layers of guilt and shame.  I think this will always happen to manipulative people (does not matter whether you are a man or a woman) one day when they look back.  Eventually, one just has to pay their dues by enduring the emotional (sometimes even physical) sufferings when we choose to run games on others. <br /> <br />I believe players happen in both sexes and manipulation games happen both ways.  If you were hurt by players, this book helps you surface the truth and answers questions as of why he is the way he is.  But this book will also stir your anger towards men in general at the same time.  Don't worry.  Take the experience as a learning journey and take this book as a checklist.  This book is every woman's guide to identify players early in the game before women sink deep.  But certainly not one that help you feel loved and better.  It is only when you walk through the peaks and valleys, you learn about those manipulation games men play for sex and for the satisfaction of their ego.  Their bad behavior hopefully acts as an inspiration for us as women to be a wiser, more compassionate and more loving people instead of following the players' unconscious, manipulative and stupid, naive behaviors. <br /> <br />I believe what goes around comes around.  Maybe you do not see them suffer at this point of your life and you ask God and everyone else why it is so unfair.  However, I really believe when one has played enough manipulation games just to satisfy their ego and sense of illusionary power, one will attract another who pulls the same games and tactics.  One will eventually taste their own medicine by falling into traps they set forth for others.  I once encountered a playboy who is everything Mr. Crutcher mentioned in his book.  Ultimately, a playboy has a sickening desire wanting women to suffer for them and wanting women to depend on him to give him the illusion of power and control.  So, when women turn around standing on her two feet (even better when you have the guts to step on his toes), they earn their painful lessons in the hardest way.  That was how my playboy ex (well, you see, he tried to use committed relationship as a vehicle to get what he wanted... only I turned around and stepped his toes in the least expected way) learnt.  Every once a while, I will assure you that your player ex will call and try to ask you back because he failed the challenge.  But it makes us women feel more empowered when we say no and divorce ourselves from these drama kings.  Some days I still think about my player ex wondering whether he learnt his lessons.  But only to know that it is players' spiritual journey to learn how to be better people and it is not honest women's job to change them. <br /> <br />With players, honest people always have the chance to win the game and make him feel like a loser.  Remember, players can only get hurt when they feel losing.  So, you have an ultimate control to confront his bad behavior and cut contact with him.  From experience, no contact is the best way in returning the favor of their sickening behavior.  But with players, honest people cannot change them.  Be cautious.  Because players like to say, \\"I have changed.  I changed because of you.\\"  99% of the time that statement is not true and that statement is only another trap for him to gain power and satisfy his sickening ego.  People do not change for others.  People change when they realize the need to.  What do you want to do when you are dealing with players?  Run as far away as possible and tell him bluntly that you do notassociate with people who run manipulation games.  He is going to defend.  But you still have a choice to not pick up the phone and blocking his emails.  And it is even better when you run away from him as if he carries some kinds of disease.  Actually when I think about it, it is humorous but true.  Manipulative men/players do carry unhealthy disease and unhealthy emotions.  Honest women just deserve better than associating/helping people who do not want to get better. <br /> <br />Now, I do not know who is reading my review here.  However, I really hope that we all start learning to become wiser and more educated through the disappointing life experiences.  As men/women in the 21st century, we are in control of our own lives and we have the ultimate power to divorce from dramatic, egoistic people when we love and care ourselves.   <br />	2005-08-08
US	22055367	R2MFHO4VARINBX	0609800140	371567930	Anatomy of the Spirit: The Seven Stages of Power and Healing	Books	5	19	21	N	N	Great Overview of Intuition and Spirituality	I am very impressed with this book and the vast topics the author had covered using human beings' physical body to explain the beauty of human beings' spirits.  If you are looking for one book to fix all your life problems or thinking this will cure your illness for sure, this book can only be a starting point for you.  Don't expect any book, anyone can fix your problems and/or illness.  Ultimately, it is up to you at the end of the day (your desire) whether you want to heal your physical and emotional body.  However, this book is a gateway and overview about what you can do to lift your spirits, if you choose to open your heart to read, listen without judgment. <br /> <br />Nobody says everything Caroline Myss says must be the Divine truth.  But what harm does it do to you when you just open up and see what she has to say first?  Then, you can choose what sort of a belief system you want to carry. <br /> <br />I will say this though, if you are looking for intuition and guidance of spirituality, it is a great overview book to help you explore.  But if you are looking for books with healing messages behind, this book might be overwhelming.  As human beings, I think we need to find our own way to heal the wounds the understanding of Forgiveness.  I find \\"Heart of Forgiveness: A Practical Path to Healing by Madeline Ko-I Bastis\\" to be extremely helpful to heal emotional wounds.   <br /> <br />Don't get frustrated with Caroline Myss because she is trying to cover a massive amount of topics to help the readers to be awaken.  Wounds (physical and emotional) itself aren't bad but they are just signs for the awakening process.  And I understand some readers get frustrated when she mentioned about woundology.  My interpretation of her words is that wounds itself is not a problem (not good nor bad).  At any point of time, we need to process the wounds with therapists and/or with groups as well as supportive friends and family.  What she was trying to point out is that sometimes wounds can be unconsiously used as ways to control others and some people unconsiously/consiously use wounds to manipulate others just to get what they want.  It is then wounds itself becomes harmful to self and others.  It is then the group therapy, therapies in general becomes harmful for everyone's spirit.  Nobody says healing is easy (yet it is simple because it is a spiritual decision we are trying to make).  It requires us to examine even the manipulative/controlling side of self to ask the most important question ... Whether we are afraid to break away from wounds because we will be exposed to the healing world.  We are just human beings who have fears.  I think this book is wonderful to expose our fear-based thinking/feeling in light for use to examine. <br /> <br />I am very glad I read this book.  Wounderful way to self-explore and to learn deep about life.   <br /> <br />	2005-07-25
US	22055367	RVSJSUA9LY72C	0809229145	523619293	Emotional Unavailability : Recognizing It, Understanding It, and Avoiding Its Trap	Books	5	166	178	N	N	Great book in identifying destructive relationship patterns	Emotional Unavailability by Bryn C. Collins, is an excellent book for everyone of us learning and identifying different patterns of toxic relationships.  The author provides excellent examples of these different patterns through his professional experience as a therapist.  To become emotionally available, one sometimes need to open up and be vulnerable, allowing themselves to be potentially be hurt.  This is the way one needs to do in order to emotionally connect with others to find a content, joyful and peaceful life.  When I was reading this book, I can echo the people I have met who fit into those descriptions to a great extent.  The Blamers, the Fixers, the Poor Me, the Player, and the Solver... What a great, accurate observation about patterns of people.  I also like the way the author who tries to teach readers how to switch from a blaming/poor me position to be the Solver position (\\"I'm sorry you feel this way.  What can I do to make the situation better?\\")  The author also gave a very accurate picture about what therapy can and cannot do.      However, this is my view and thoughts after reading this book.  People are not perfect and they never will be.  Every one of us carries some sort of a flaw in some sense in handling human relationships.  I think sometimes we need to carry appropriate expectations on others.  People can be blamers, getting stuck with the victim mentality, the player attitudes.  That is just the way people are.  Sometimes people exhibit these traits only on certain occasions while others exhibit these behaviors in consistent basis.  Some people are worse.  They are narcissists and/or sociopaths.  For us to live emotionally healthy, I feel that it is our job to set limits of how much manipulation games, lies, blaming words we are going to tolerate in every relationship.  If we have determined people are toxic to us, it is time for us to get up and walk away.  If they are our loved ones, of course setting limits and boundaries will be challenging.  However, it is also about time for us to set healthy boundaries in order to live in an emotionally healthy life.  We ultimately want a content, joyful and peaceful life.  Sometimes it is hard to separate us from the drama too, especially if the drama was introduced to us since childhood.  However, breaking away from the drama some parents/siblings created is the only way to find peace and harmony.  It takes work... but I hope everyone of us can identify and learn from our destructive behavior from the past to create a more healthy, loving and caring relationships with others.	2005-04-20
US	22055367	R1VLPXOOOVBHLH	0809223988	505844848	Broken Promises, Mended Hearts: Maintaining Trust in Love Relationships	Books	5	55	60	N	N	A Book that Invites Compassions to Trusting Relationships	The reason I picked up this book in Amazon is I started a relationship with someone I could not trust.  Unlike the pop entertaining self-help books you find nowadays in the bookstores, this book has a very compassionate writing style to help one learning how and why they could not find trust in their relationships. This book covers various topics about why trust is being breached:  1. Everyday behaviors that small promises are broken (never call when they say they will call, canceling a birthday dinner, etc)  2. Jealousy games (flirting with others, commenting your attractions to others/others' attractions towards you, etc)  3. Childhood and Family Experience  4. Some of the roots of the infidelity/affairs that lead to the break of trust  5. The lack of communication (especially communicating their most inner thoughts/feelings)    This book also talks about realistic expectations of seeking couple/marriage counseling as well as many helpful tools/techniques to build/re-build a trusting relationship with your partner (it gets worse before it gets better).  Dr. Block states that trust is being breached when reliability and consistency of one's behavior is not developed.  When couples were hurt by each other's past behavior, the most important thing for one to do is to heal the pain and Dr. Block provides specific steps in how to do so (e.g. sticking with the issues than trying to open the old wounds, express how you feel rather than becoming defensive, etc).    In my opinion, people sometimes have reasons to be distrustful.  When your partner has demonstrated ambivalent behavior consistently and when there has been numerous warning signs (such as the partner saves the love letters from their secret lovers, comes home very late every day, etc), one has a right to become distrustful.  When one feels the other has been playing numerous manipulation/jealousy games just to get what he/she wants (where it could be money, sex, power, control, status, etc), one just has the right not to continue to trust.  One has a right to question when their partner has been consistently running games.  If one has vowed to commit to another, seeing one person exclusively, their behavior/actions need to be consistent with the vows.  Only when the both of the partners are willing to work towards staying together and loving each other in mending/creating/re-building trust relationship, broken promises ultimately lead to emotional withdrawal and parting at the end.        I used to hear people say, \\"I immediately/automatically trust someone I just met unless he/she has demonstrated a specific/concrete evidence not to trust.\\"  I used to question what was wrong with me about not able to trust others in the first meeting.  I finally come to conclude that I disagree with the statement where one should be able to trust another in the first glance.  Of course, it is not right to paint a pre-judgment/inaccurate picture on someone with little/no evidence (which could be wrong perceptions).  One always has the right to withhold trust till a point you feel they are reliable and predictable in many aspects.  Trust is different from being in control.  Trust is when you are comfortable your partner's behavior would not hurt your feelings.  You do not need to control in order to feel the love from your partner.  Trust also takes time to build, sometimes years to build.  It needs to be earned and your partner needs to be able to go through the peaks and valleys with you (and vice versa).  When we become nave to trust in first glance, we subject ourselves to be vulnerable where our heart/bank account will be hurt by people who are manipulators (of course manipulators would not admit they're running games). Trust can also be broken by only just one act (e.g. having an affair).  One's actions/behavior, not one's words demonstrate whether he/she is trustworthy.  The actions/behaviors need to be consistent throughout the course of time.  This is how one can build the credibility for others to trust.  Of course actions/behaviors need to be accompanied with open expression of feelings/emotions.    Last, but not the least, one needs to realize when trust is breached, it is time to take very good care of yourself and to heal the pain.  You are not responsible for your partner's misbehavior.  However, it is important not to act out of anger and vengeful thoughts (such as saying demeaning words, payback, etc).  Feel the pain, the hurt, the anger and the rage as it comes.  Write down all your thoughts even if it requires you to write the curse words down.  Talk to your therapist if you have one.  Turn yourself to your support group (family, friends where you know they love you and treat you well).  Sometimes, men and women's group will also work well in validating your pain and hurt.  It is ok to cry and it is ok to seek help.  The most important thing is to heal after the broken promises.  If your partner demonstrates remorse, he/she will turn to you consistently and seek for your understanding/empathy.  He/she will work on his/her issues very hard to demonstrate they are willing to change for the sake of the better.  They would admit/accept their misbehavior than justifying.  Most important of all, every one of us in this world is entitled to happiness.  We are responsible for our own lives, not our partners' lives.	2005-03-23
US	22055367	R30D3ZQWLLSR9A	0060817402	824045989	Be Honest--You're Not That Into Him Either: Raise Your Standards and Reach for the Love You Deserve	Books	5	116	136	N	N	Even Better than He's not that Into You	The book He's not that Into You is a book to help you \\"get over\\" the man who destroy your life and your self esteem.  However, it does give women a passive attitude towards dating and finding the right person.  Like I mentioned in my previous review, we women only take the belief of \\"He's not that Into You\\" when you decide his ambivalent behavior is ruining your life.  Unlike He's not that Into You, the \\"Be honest - You're not that Into Him Either\\" gives women the opportunity to explore and learn more about her, surfacing the bottom line and the honest truth about life - Life is full of choices.  I give more credits towards this book because it is written from a male sex therapist.  I admire the author's deep knowledge about women (when I was reading the book, I wonder how was that even possible a male sex therapist would know so much about the honest truth) and had fun reading this book. <br /> <br />I like the way the author surface the truth of why most women cannot have sex/physical intimacy like a man and why it is better for a person to wait if she wants to have a steady, loving relationship.  Sex/Physical intimacy is a topic every man and woman wants to know the most but it is a topic our society talks very little (I mean in a psychological point of view).  Most women do not want to wake up in the morning feeling they were promiscuous.  Or, women, from a biological perspective, become more emotional bonded with the man when sex/physical intimacy is involved. <br /> <br />I like how the author surfaces another side of the fence about how women get into a self-defeating position in dating.  You're not that into him either if: <br />1. You believe there is no good man left  <br />NOTE: This is our self-defeating excuse to stay in the same position so we can be \\"lazy\\" of not finding the love we deserve <br />2. You need someone to be into you to serve your ego and to cope your loneliness <br />NOTE: Ladies, please let go of your ego because your ego does not bring you happiness <br />3. You lost faith in finding love <br />NOTE: You were hurt a couple times and you are convinced that love is not there <br />4. Your biological clock is clicking and you want to be with someone (regardless whether he is compatible with you or not) <br /> <br />Women in general want happy marriage and kids.  However, sometimes their eyes are caught up with conforming to the society (the little picture frame of a \\"happy family\\", the wedding, the diamond engagement ring, coupling, \\"to be with someone\\") and lost sight around the most important message about life - which is creating a life for self and others that is content, happy and peaceful.  It is so true that women are better off being single than rushing into the idea of marriage just to show off to others how wonderful her life is (because divorce happen so often in life nowadays).  Are you falling in love with the idea of marriage, play girl, coupling because it is \\"cool\\" according to the society?  Or are you falling in love for the man you are very into?  Or are you falling in love with a man because you believe he will change for you because of love?     <br /> <br />Who cares whether you are married or not?  Who cares whether you have an \\"ideal\\" family where there must be a husband and children?  What if you can create an external picture of a family to everyone else (meaning nice house, nice cars, \\"perfect\\" husband and \\"perfect\\" children) while you feel hollow, shallow, empty, broken and lost inside?  Isn't it just like human beings living on Earth but pretending that they are living in the moon every day we wake up in the morning?  Ladies, snap out from that illusion of the \\"happily ever after\\" fairy tale picture because life is full of ups and downs and at the end, you can only be content and at peace within yourself when you let go of that unrealistic, one dimensional fairy tale happily ever after dream.  The fairy tale is just an escape of the reality because of that sense of emptiness we all have.  Why do we women let the word marriage and coupling control our life is my question?  Is it because of our parents?  Is it because of the society?  Is it because of the magazines/media that promotes coupling and marriages (imagine how much you are supposed to spend in a wedding?)  What is the point to create that picture when it becomes unrealistic, at the end we human beings become empty inside?             <br />	2005-02-14
US	22055367	R22NBHI5KJ4ZYV	1593370040	291966995	The Commitment Cure: What to Do When You Fall for an Ambivalent Man	Books	5	72	77	N	N	This book is truly a commitment cure...!!!	Though this book's main audience is female, I think ambivalence happen in both sexes.  As a female, I definitely recognize and acknowledge my own ambivalence behavior as a result of the past pain and hurt from other relationships and from my own childhood experience.  It is through acknowledgement and the willingness to let go of these past pain and hurt, can we truly heal and find a healthy relationship.      I met men who are ambivalent and have issues with commitment.  Men who are ambivalent are results of their emotional immaturity and/or results of their past pain and hurt (from childhood and/or past painful heartbreaks they cannot acknowledge).  The author did a wonderful job to teach women to recognize these behaviors.  If he behaves disrespectful, abusive, and/or he is a commitment phobia, we women need to decide whether to stay and work with the issues with him or to leave.  At the end of the day, we women need to take charge of our own lives and not let the ambivalent men walk all over us.  On another side, when we get hurt by the ambivalent men in the past (I had gotten hurt twice), we are more vulnerable to become an ambivalent woman on our own.  However, if your relationship did not work out, don't automatically blame the man and justify your ambivalent behavior.  It takes two people to make the relationship work.  So, we, as modern women, need to accept and take responsibility on our own part.  However, we should never accept full blame and responsibility if the painful breakup was solely a result of his ambivalent behavior.  We women are not responsible for men's emotional garbage and past experience (vice versa).  The author also brought up one very good point here is that people tend to rationalize, psychoanalyze and idealize that he/she will one day change for you because he/she loves you.  As a human being who walked through a transformation process, I know humans do not change for another person because they love that person.  People change onlywhen they realize the need to.  It is true for both men and women.  As a woman in today's 21st century society, we women can stand on our own two feet and do not need him to validate our self-esteem (vice versa, I sometimes meet men who needs/depends on women so bad to validate their sense of self).  We do not need to mother him and to accept every single one of his hurtful, annoying behavior (vice versa for men here as well).      I love the way the author puts her own ending.  This society puts too much emphasis about coupling and marriages.  While of course it is nice to be attached and to be married because we conform to the \\"norm\\", we need to learn how to be content and happy on our own.  A man, a relationship is supposed to be a bonus in our life (vice versa for men... I think it is better for men to stay alone than being attached to women who do not acknowledge their manipulative and ambivalent behavior, or justify all their bad behavior and blame men in general).  It is much better meeting/dating an emotional healthy person (or a person who deeply acknowledges and works on their own psychological issues) so you can find joy and peace in life.  Sometimes, the end goal of life might not be marriage and children.  Sometimes, the end goal of life might just be content and peaceful at the moment.  It is better to stay single in women's 30s, 40s even 50s+ than being married to a man you cannot be happy with (vice versa for men as well).  Life is full of choices and decisions.  My choice and end goal of life is about love, appreciation, joy and peace.  If staying in a relationship help us attain these feelings, go for it.  If staying in a relationship generates anger, hatred, jealousy, fear, I am asking the question why we still want to stay attached to the person?	2005-02-08
US	22055367	R22Y04SXRIY8VD	1580627560	916830225	Why Men Love Bitches: From Doormat to Dreamgirl―A Woman's Guide to Holding Her Own in a Relationship	Books	5	19	24	N	N	It is like a set of fine tools, use it to spice things up!	This is another great, entertaining self-help book you find on the bookshelf of your favorite good old bookstore.  These are the tools many of us, women, wish our mother taught us before we start dating.  However, I got to say this though.  The tools you learn from this book are like different sets of sharp knives.  You can use it to craft a nice piece of sculpture in life.  You can use it to hurt and abuse men's feelings.      I will tell you this, ladies.  I am very thankful I did NOT pick up this book when I had my first serious heart break.  If you were hurt by men and you have suppressed anger and pain over those relationships, reading this book will only sharpen your \\"play girl\\" skills.  Yes, it will help you get men and fool 90% of them.  However, honestly, you are using the set of \\"knives\\" to destroy others.  Don't do that!  You had your heart hurt but that does not grant you the right to go out and hurt others.  They did not cause your heartache.  That one or several men did.  If you seriously was abused and hurt in those relationships, try Don Miguel Ruiz's books or other types of self help books that invites love and compassion towards self first.  Find your ways to heal the anger and pain.  It is ok you feel angry and resentful to men in general.  However, going through the peaks and valleys, you learn more about yourself.  You learn the difference of what behavior from men is acceptable versus not acceptable.      Use the tools you see in this book as a way to create a nice piece of sculpture in life with the one you are very interested in.  What Sherry Argov suggests is very true.  At the end of the day, we need to have the self confidence on our own and be secure about ourselves.  We are good enough just the way we are.  It is by choice we choose to be with a man, not because we are not good enough (Who said I don't look good?  Who said I reach 30s therefore I am not desirable?  Even if that's the case, who cares... I love myself and that is enough).A man either likes us the way we are or he is not the right person for us.  We try very hard to work relationship out but we do not bent our back over and lose our sense of self.  It takes two people to make a relationship work.  So, let him do his part  and you do your fair share.  See his actions before putting your heart down for him.  Putting your heart down never means you sell yourself short or losing your sense of self and the things you like to do.  We treat ourselves with dignity and make things clear to him what is acceptable and what is not.  We do not need his approval to survive because we can be happy alone.  I learnt the lesson in a very hard way but now I find myself happy in general because I am emotionally independent.  The tools here also only work well on men who are secure about themselves.  The suggestions here will twist the young, sweet and innocent men's fingers and they will not know what to do with you.  The advices do not work well with the controlling men (but if they are controlling towards you, why do you want to be with him?)  These tools can drive the insecure men insane.  And you ultimately need to pick and choose which set suits what situation, what type of men.      Again, tactics suggested here are tools.  Don't use it as a manipulation game.  Don't play this manipulation game on any guys just to get what you want.  You use these tools (by being a mean bitch) to spice the relationship up and creates the spark, the thrill and the chase.  You can do this while you two first met.  You can carry on this spark till you get married and have kids.  But the poor guy does not need you to use these things to hurt him at the end of the day.  You ultimately want to have a content, intimate, passionate and loving relationship.  Use the tools to help you develop that relationship like a piece of fine art/sculpture instead of destroying others.	2005-01-08
US	22055367	R3CWYRV8FZ0BM3	1590030273	314915742	Heart of Forgiveness: A Practical Path to Healing	Books	5	5	7	N	N	A Treasure to keep	Heart of Forgiveness is truly a treasure to keep.  I like the book cover.  Very simple and plain and the way the book structures is very easy for us to understand.  Some books are too decorative and lose the essence of what the author is trying to deliver. <br /> <br />Coming back to the book itself, the author first brings us the awareness of what harm is.  Forgiveness is about letting go of the harm.  Therefore, knowing and being aware of the word \\"harm\\" to self and others is the first stepping stone towards forgiveness.  Then, she went on talking about the process to forgive.  I am inspired by the author using her life example to demonstrate how she forgives herself (the unborn child) and others (her loss of job).  I am sure it took her a very long time to exercise forgiveness but forgiveness can be done.   <br /> <br />The most important message I got out of this book is to bring me the awareness that when harm is done to our soul and if we do not take good care of healing our soul, the chances for us going out and cause the same magnitude/greater harm to others is much greater.  After being hurt by three different men in the last year, I realize how important to re-focus my attention in feeling and healing the pain I have towards these people.  I finally wake up realize I do not wish to hurt others (though I realize I have tendencies to do so) simply because it is not the right thing.  Exercising forgiveness is not about getting into a mental position of thinking it is an moral act or thinking one is superior.  Forgiveness is simply a choice we have to let go of our suffering (suffering is created because we cling onto something/people/expectations).  Forgiveness is not about denying or suppressing the pain and anger, but is about telling self the desire to heal.  To forgive others, one needs to honor and let go of the pain others cause us.  It can take days, months, years.  There is no set time limit and everyone is different and it is ok.  I like the way theauthor describes forgiveness to others as, \\"I will forgive you, but not yet\\"  We always get into situations forgivness are said as words to others but sadness and resentment still sits in our heart.  \\"I will forgive you, but not yet\\" is a good way to be honest to yourself and to others.  We do not comprimise our inner most feeling for others to feel better.   <br /> <br />NOTE: If we cannot even exercise loving ourselves and honoring our own feelings, how can it be possible for our heart to create that space to forgive others?  Forgiveness is an act of self-love.  If one cannot honor their own emotions and love themselves, where is the room to forgive others?  I know many times we have the tendencies to say we forgive because either we realize someone feels very bad about the harm he/she caused or we just want to avoid conflict.  However, this act is no different from hiding a problem/issue in the closet.  Therefore, I will always remember, \\"I will forgive you, but not yet\\".   <br /> <br />To forgive self, one needs to realize their past behavior and commit self not to make the same mistakes again because of the unconsious harmful behavior.  One might also need to find the opportunity to repent the harm they have done to others.  This is the only way to forgive self and in turn, live a happy and content life. <br /> <br />Thank you, Ms. Madeline Ko-I Bastis, for delivering a wonderful, suthing message to everyone in this world.  This world will truly be a better place to live if we can open our heart to see what forgiveness is about.   <br />	2004-11-06
US	22055367	R26VTTA9HFXN25	0195118014	966633142	The Suicidal Mind	Books	5	29	30	N	N	Accurate, Scientific, Not Immediate Cure for Suicidal People	From my point of view, this book draws a very good picture about the suicidal mind.  It mentioned why and how people become suicidal and how early intervention can help healing this mind.  I like the way the author presents the topic suicide.  He presented it in an academic and scientific way, which is a great way for others to understand suicidal thinking.  It has valuable case studies and scientific research for others to understand the topic of suicide.  It is for professionals, friends, family and significant others who are associated with the suicidal individuals to read, for the sake of understanding their judgmental mind and their \\"incurable\\" psychological pain.  This book creates a bridge for others to understand what is on suicidal individuals' head and why these individuals are reluctant in seeking help (the emperor in their head that now becomes the dictator, which eliminates the option for the depressed/anxious individuals to choose how to live life).<br /><br />It is NOT a book for suicidal individuals to read immediately to alleviate their psychological pain (because I bet this pain has been accumulated over years and this book is too scientific to cure the pain), though, it can be a wonderful resource for the person who is walking through a steady recovery path out of depression/suicidal thinking.  It is a book for suicidal individuals to read when they have the courage to accept the past form of lethal destructive thinking.  But certainly, it is NOT an immediate remedy for the cure.  Books that introduce opening your heart to listen without judgment and books about love, compassion and forgiveness are the ones that need to be recommended to suicidal individuals.  Therapies and medications are also necessities for these individuals to feel better.  Most important of all, suicidal individuals tend to isolate and think their pain is unique and incurable.  Lots of love and compassion from others without harsh judgment (doctors, nurses, therapists, friends, family, significant others, co-workers, etc) will tremendously help these individuals to recover.  One misconception we always have for suicidal individuals is that we think we can scold them and then they will buck up and change.  We sometimes get too frustrated ourselves (which is very understandable because we are worried) and we release our anger on these individuals who suffer psychological pain.  However, by using fear and judgment, we are only pushing this individual further to the edge and to help them feel worse, instead of better.  So, remember when you realize you have the need to \\"control\\" how the suicidal individuals should think, take a deep breath and return your attention back to love and compassion.  Remind yourself that you want to help, but not the need to feel you are superior/right.family, significant others, co-workers, etc) will tremendously help these individuals to recover.  One misconception we always have for suicidal individuals is that we think we can scold them and then they will buck up and change.  We sometimes get too frustrated ourselves (which is very understandable because we are worried) and we release our anger on these individuals who suffer psychological pain.  However, by using fear and judgment, we are only pushing this individual further to the edge and to help them feel worse, instead of better.  So, remember when you realize you have the need to \\"control\\" how the suicidal individuals should think, take a deep breath and return your attention back to love and compassion.  Remind yourself that you want to help, but not the need to feel you are superior/right.	2004-10-29
US	22055367	R1DASL3ZQM294J	157731400X	666881217	Stillness Speaks	Books	5	22	25	N	N	The Power of Slience.  Distilled version -  The Power of Now	I thought Stillness Speaks is a rehash of \\"The Power of Now\\" in one sense, but also a distilled version of \\"The Power of Now\\".  The words Mr. Tolle says are meant to be experienced though it is the same old philosophy as \\"The Power of Now\\".  That is why this book has lots of white spaces.  That is why it is sectioned out with all the small paragraphs.  If a book full of words is the one you feel you can get as much money back as you can, this is not the book for you because you are focusing too much on gaining knowledge.  You want to adopt the words even before you can pause to see whether it makes sense to you.  Your mind wants to be occupied with all the words so you cannot stop and to reflect.      This is a book you are not supposed to rush it through and read all of it in one day (though you can surely speed read it and be done in 2 hours because it is thin without too many words).  It is supposed to be a book you read only one chapter a day to pause and to reflect slowly.  You feel the words and you taste the words.  You experience what he said without the noise that is always talking and judging.  Then, you experience love and peace.  Then, you are awakened from that voice in your head that is always talking and judging (egoic mind).       Also, when you are reading this book, you are supposed to take Mr. Tolle out of the picture as an identity (meaning the form of a spiritual teacher - does not matter whether you respect him or not).  Mr. Tolle's words are just a gateway to our spiritual awareness to be in the presence and stillness.  The words are meant to inspire and help us return to our authentic self (inner peace) - which exists in the presence.  When we get into the mental position of, \\"What was he thinking when he was writing the book?\\" or judging \\"isn't it just a rehash of The Power of Now\\", you have already missed the point of the book - which is to stay presence and feel the words to achieve stillness.  If you already have the book, why not read itwith an open heart rather than complaining the white spaces/thin book?  You already have it in your hands.  Why can't you read it with gratitude and see what the words have to offer you?	2004-10-29
US	22055367	REN7HAWFSVN	1878424521	429319382	Prayers: A Communion with Our Creator	Books	5	83	86	N	N	Even Better than the Four Agreements!	\\"Prayers\\" is even a better book than the Four Agreements, though the Four Agreements build you a foundation.  It is meant to be a book we will read when at the quest of love and peace.  The book is meant to be read when you are angry, sad, experiencing fear and judgment.  Of course you still need to find other ways to work on your anger, this book simply have the power to help you let go of those nasty thoughts.  This book is not meant to be used to suppress/deny the existence of anger and fear, for, we need to accept human has all ranges of emotions.  There is no right and wrong for whatever and however we feel things.  At the end of the day, we are just saying prayers to let go of the emotional poisons.  That is the essence of this book.  The words of the book can only be experienced and felt.  You cannot use your judgmental mind to think and to understand nor can you try to rush finishing the book.  Some books, for example this one, just are not meant for speed reading because you cannot experience the peace the author wants to give you.  When you open your heart and feel the power of the words, you experience lots of love and compassion to yourself and others.  That is how you want to use this book to open your spiritual eyes and stay there.  This book is easy to understand.  It is meant to be read again and again, especially during turbulent times where we are most easily to slip back to the judgmental self.  I definitely recommend this book to someone who is experiencing some sort of a significant loss in life (whether it is a loved one's death, a lost of job or a loss of marriage).  May we all come out from the turbulent times and experience love and care, which help us return to our authentic self - with love and care and without judgment about self and others?	2004-10-25
US	22055367	R1HDVTIQAI00BV	068987474X	794170346	He's Just Not That Into You: The No-Excuses Truth to Understanding Guys	Books	5	15	17	N	N	Realistic, Brutal but Honest	This is definitely a book catering women, particularly women that had their heart broken by the wrong men.  The book offers wisdom and allows women to see the irritating men behavior in a brutally honest way.  I would say this.  If you are experiencing a serious heart break, this book is NOT recommended.  You want other books that are lighter to at least make you feel grounded first.  This book will create lots of anger you have on this man who just broke your heart and you do not need books to stir up your anger.  If you have a big ego about yourself (which probably will make you feel really good because you have too much pride about yourself), please put the book down because this book will serve your ego.  Your ego does not bring you happiness and personal fulfillment.  Later, you will just ask yourself why your Mr. Perfect guy has not shown up.  This will make you feel miserable.   <br /> <br />However, if this book helps you to bring the problems/issues to the surface and realize the honest truth - \\"He's just not that into me\\", go read it.  If you decide the \\"your fantasy about the guy\\" is ruining your life, or giving you false hope about the relationship, it is better to take the belief that \\"He's just not that into me\\" than dwelling on.  Why?  Because we women just deserve so much better.   <br /> <br />Of course I think men are complicated.  Men are human beings and they are of course capable in having complex emotions that they cannot even acknowledge.  A breakup from a guy is hard to take.  I admit it because I had it twice and each time is devastating.  It makes me seem like I worth less.  To realize those two men are not that into me is tough because carrying onto those fantasies are supposed to validate my self-esteem.  However, that is not the truth.   <br /> <br />Why hang on to the fantasy of these men might ask me back (or change) in order to validate I am a worthy person?  Why can't I be happy about myself and be self-reliant?  Why should I ask someone else to bring me happiness, especially the guy who has just broken my heart?  Why should I look outside for love when the most important thing in life is about loving myself?   <br /> <br />We women are taught to be understanding, gentle, loving and most important of all - selfless.  I hate to see women being selfless because we are all so beautiful and worthy individuals.  Why should we diminish ourselves just because these men/jerks break our heart?  Yes, we need to understand some of these men/jerks have their own psychological issues and/or maybe they are just not that into us.  Some probably went through tough lives, tough divorces.  Some are commitment phobic.  Some does not know who they are.  Some cannot acknowledge their inner most daemons and fears.  Some just does not get the meaning of relationships but pretend they know it all.  We need to understand and be sympathetic.  Don't get me wrong.  They crossed our lives and we were in love with them.  Of course it is hard to let go of them.  However, why should we treat ourselves terrible (be around with them when we feel terrible about it) and be their \\"therapist\\" hoping they will change, while all we need to do is to clearly draw the line and move on?   <br /> <br />I am a person that walked through a transformation process as a human being.  I can tell you that people do not change from their old pattern easily if they do not feel the need to.  They just do not unless something hard hits them.  How do I know?  Because I was one of them.  It does not matter whether you are a man or a woman.  People change only when they truly realize the need to change for the better.  We do not have the power to change any other individuals except ourselves.  These men who treated women like \\"crap\\" just need to realize it on their own about why they have those issues or if they are simply just not that into the person.  If you are the lucky one, maybe this man will one day realize their behavior and apologize.  However, it is not your job to wait.  It is not your job to be their therapist (they can pay to see a therapist if they want.  They can get books.  Be real - you are not the professional).  It is certainly not your job to change them because they will not change for you (especially if they are just not that into you and/or they have psychological issues).  Your job is to love yourself and to take very good care of yourself.  Your job is to not to judge yourself because he broke your heart.  Your job is to be gentle to yourself and avoid self-defeating words.  Your job is to heal your heart and be happy on your own.  Your job is to find ways to break away from him, run away from him as far as you can.  Trust me, if it was meant to be, he will one day chase you down and find you.  If it was meant to be, your heart will heal first and then somehow both of your lives will merge again and find each other.  Otherwise, if he isn't that into you and it is not meant to be, why do you want to be with someone while you are fully capable loving and caring yourself?  You deserve better.  <br /> <br />I like what the author had in the last section, listing the qualities about who you want to date.  This is what my therapist told me to do and it brings consciousness about who I want to be with.  It is nothing about judging the men who has broken my heart.  However, it is about whom I feel I deserve to be with.  If creating a list of qualities about a man you want to be with serves your ego, stop it and learn how to let go of that ego first.  However, if the list helps you to build up your self-esteem and helps you realize who a person you want to be with, go ahead and do it!  You will benefit from it.                <br />	2004-10-25
US	22055367	R1144GG4QN8XQO	0809229498	56574971	How to Mend a Broken Heart : Letting Go and Moving On	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Close to Receiving Actual Therapy after the Broken Heart	Well, first, I think everyone of us needs to acknowledge the heart is broken before reading anything or seeking any help.  I read through this book and the points the author made are remarkable.  People always say, \\"You get hurt.  What things are you doing to make you feel better?\\"  Well, seriously follow the guide the author tells you.  I went through a painful breakup and was under the partial program.  The path this book suggested is very similar to what I was told in the partial program.  I did what the partial program people told me and it worked.  After the broken heart, the first thing is really giving the attention and the care.  Focus on yourself.  This book has good tips about how to do so.  Put your broken heart into what she says and try to understand.  Feel it as the pain and anger comes.  It is ok.  Practice what she says.  It is ok to take good care of yourself.    Again, one book is not going to fix it all.  There are so many layers you need to explore and acknowledge.  There are so much garbage you have inherited from the past, especially your early childhood experience.  You cannot just expect you will feel completely good after one reading.  However, try to explore what the author says.  If you are searching for \\"do things to feel better\\", read this book and do what the author suggests.  Identify what the author says and do what the author told you.  Remind yourself you might have the tendency to withdraw or try self-medicating yourself.  You will have that tendency because you are human.  Stay in presence.      This book also offers you as an extra support for you to understand many of us go through heartbreaks.  We just all do.  The heart will hurt and it will seem like it is forever.  But until we can truly honor the pain can we truly heal.  It is about healing and not running away from it.  The book offers the help and telling you that you are not crazy.  Your experience was just not widely spread in the public media but it happens in our society.  Please take really good care of yourself.  You will heal when you walk out from this experience and find out who you are meant to be.	2004-10-10
US	22055367	RR74NMZTFYZXB	1878424424	426475307	The Mastery of Love: A Practical Guide to the Art of Relationship: A Toltec Wisdom Book	Books	5	26	32	N	N	Finest Relationship Book!  The Love that Starts from Within.	I read \\"The Four Agreements\\", \\"The Four Agreements Companion Book\\", \\"The Voice of Knowledge\\" and this book, \\"The Mastery of Love\\".  I read \\"The Mastery of Love\\" the first time after \\"The Four Agreements\\" but before \\"The Voice of Knowledge\\".  So, the first time reading \\"The Mastery of Love\\", I could not get as much out as what I wanted to.  However, the second time I read through it (after the reading of \\"The Voice of Knowledge\\"), I have such a deep appreciation of what the author's message is.  I was applying many of the techniques I learnt from the author in this one relationship.  I learnt so much about practicing love in and out of this one relationship even though it did not end up living happily ever after with this person.  The book helps me understand why relationship can still end; even I exercised love through full acceptance of who he is.    1. The projection of the many selves that hurts relationships  We project so many versions of ourselves to others just to win their approvals, consciously and subconsciously.  In my situation, I realize I was presenting who I was, or at least I make a conscious effort to be truthful and honest.  I loved him for who he is with full acceptance (despite the circumstances happening in his life and our huge difference), and with acknowledgement of my own inner fears, ego so I can put my second attention to the track of love, rather than track of fear.      The broken part is that he could not acknowledge the subconscious projection he had (he projected himself with the one full of love and care towards others - which is true but one dimensional), and maybe has suppressed many of his deepest fears about relationships.      In addition, I realized at the end he also had a false impression of me.  He thought that I need his love in order for me to survive (that one pizza while I can cook all my food - love, in my own \\"Magical Kitchen\\"). He thought I could not love myself and be independent.  He thought I need to be taken careof.  At least that is how I perceive through that projection.      When there are too many projections in the relationship, you cannot accept who a person is truly.  Without acceptance, then, where is love?    2. Love is About Acceptance but Not about Drama  This is what I learnt from Don Miguel Ruiz's teaching.  Love is about creating heaven on Earth through acceptance.  You can create that heaven by yourself and you can create that heaven with others.  There is no need to invite drama (which is often inflicted by sense of fear, ego, anger, jealousy which are often hardly acknowledged) which drives the need to control, and the need to be right.      I am glad I went through Don Miguel Ruiz's teaching when this relationship started and ended.  It helped me to intensely love in the moment and treated the person the best I know how without the perfectionism paralyzing me.  It was the first time I loved someone with acceptance and acknowledgement of fear.  I was happy when I was in that relationship and I am still grounded falling off from it.  It is too bad relationships ended.  However, I always remember Don Miguel Ruiz's teaching about loving myself without judgment.  With that being said, I also drew boundaries with this person at the end for the sake of not inviting drama into both lives again.  He is wonderful just the way he is.  And I will always remember the romance and the dance.  He was the one who inspired me to see the true beauty of spirit.  Thank you.       What I am writing here is hoping to bring you an awareness in a practical sense that maybe you are living in true love, the love that helps you create the dream of heaven and not hell.  However, your partner might not understand your well intention and things might still end.  Why did it end?  Why search for the answers when you realize there are so many projections out there and you might never find the truth?  I hope my review here can inspire you that you can still love yourself the fullest possible, and enjoy your life the best way you can despite any life situation.  Life is still beautiful after all if you have unconditional love about yourself.  It does not matter when it starts or when it ends.  For, all human mind has a \\"magical kitchen\\" that is capable to love self and others but some how that was lost during the \\"domestication\\" process.	2004-10-06
US	22055367	R3TW3ZHFBRN6KM	1577312082	155458601	The Power of Now: A Guide to Spiritual Enlightenment	Books	5	8	11	N	N	Spiritual Awakening	I bought the CD version of \\"The Power of Now\\" as a recommendation from my therapist.  \\"The Power of Now\\" is definitely not a book for people who just started to discover who they are and who they want to be.  It is not a book that gives you a simple framework about how to start living a happy life.  There is no simple framework to live a satisfied life.  To start, I recommend reading Don Miguel Ruiz's books.  They are easier to understand.    The book/CD suggests we live in the presence, put all our mind and thoughts in \\"now\\", can we strike for doing the best we can on everything we does and break away from suffering (which tends to focus on the past and the future).  Only when we break from the past and the future, can we learn to love and be less judging (because judgment tends to come from the past or from the fear that something terrible will happen in the future).  And harsh judgment, ultimately, robs our happiness because we become bitter and unforgiving.       This book is an advance guide for those who has been in search of deepening their spiritual life.  I admit it takes a lot of hard work and re-reading/re-listening to deepen the understanding of what the author realized for the 10 years he was in search for the truth.  Each time you read the book/listen to the CD, it is a deep spiritual awakening process.  The words from the author can only be experienced.  It is what it is.  We are who we are.  It is about acceptance and experiencing the presence.  I am truly amazed how the words have inspired me the second time I am listening to it.  These set of CD is meant to be listened over and over again.  Then, one day you will realize you are detached all forms exist in the external world.  However, you will still find the unconditional love, acceptance and peace inside you at the present time.  That is the power of this set of CDs.  Enjoy and may you experience the awakening yourself.	2004-10-01
US	22055367	R13G4Z0Y3N9V35	1878424548	767076094	The Voice of Knowledge: A Practical Guide to Inner Peace	Books	5	22	22	N	N	A Book that Speaks the Truth which leads to Happiness	Another precious literature from Don Miguel Ruiz.  \\"The Voice of Knowledge\\" is another book that brings us to be the greatest artist in life.  It is an excellent companion book after you have read \\"The Four Agreements\\" and \\"The Four Agreements Companion Book\\".  Don Miguel Ruiz's books are meant to be read over and over again to help us deepen our understanding of the truth in life that leads us to live in the heaven. <br /> <br />That voice, the voice of knowledge, those lies, those old agreements, those false beliefs we adopted from the past during the domestication process when we were a child, are always talking and judging.  These voices talk very loud in our head to convince us we are not good enough.  However, the voices are lies and we believe in those lies.  We walk through life day after day believing we need others to validate and provide us the self-esteem.  We walk through life day after day looking for external gratification to satisfy that voice. <br /> <br />I like Don Miguel Ruiz's stories, particularly his interpretation of the Bible about Adam and Eve, his personal experience in the dessert and his story with his grandpa. <br /> <br />I like Don Miguel Ruiz's interpretation about the fallen angel (the snake that lives in that tree in Eden, which is called the tree of knowledge).  The snake symbolizes our own judgment, fear, anger and ego while the tree symbolizes the book of law.  The snake goes on talking in your head starting the day Adam and Eve ate the apple, which to me is a symbolism of us adopting the voice of knowledge.  The paradise we lived in turned out to be the hell, where mankind suffers.  We are all trapped in the cycle of judgment, fear, anger and ego and day after day, we think that satisfying these feelings are the way to happiness.  The snake wants to survive in your head, it will always talk.  However, we have the power to turn that voice into love and compassion.   <br /> <br />The night in the dessert helps me understand whatever we see at the moment is a reflection of light.  Our brain perceives the light and makes its own interpretation.  I think Don Miguel Ruiz brought us the truth here.  You might think you know someone well.  You do not understand why that someone hurts you deep.  It is simply because people are also the reflection of light.  We only see the reflection of others and we only understand the projected self of others.  Asking the question \\"why\\" certain things happen is nonsense, because we will never know the truth.  The truth only comes from within self and happiness comes from within. <br /> <br />Don Miguel Ruiz's story with the grandpa is empowering.  I respect the author telling us his personal story about how he turned his deamon (his ego, and his past in projecting a false image to others) into the voice of truth.  It is a powerful message and his story raised my level of awareness about self and about my own ego in the past which controlled my life.  Thank you for the author's guidance.  When you read this book with an open heart, I am sure you can find the road to happiness yourself.   <br />	2004-09-24
US	22055367	R12DIFTNXD2PCY	0452281903	549396571	A Man Named Dave: A Story of Triumph and Forgiveness	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A book with the closure and the author's road to forgiveness	Finally finished the third book, \\"A Man Named Dave\\" and it is truly wonderful to watch this lost boy's spiritual growth to become a person with a big heart.  I admire David Pelzer's courage in telling us his path to forgiveness and become a self-reliant man with a loving heart.  His story is meant to be known for us to learn.  Learning a man who is truly passionate about inspiring other emotionally wounded individuals and having the determination to help these individuals is truly amazing.  It is definitely a book that gives me some understanding about some of the abused individuals' lives are like.  David Pelzer's investigation of his past, accepting and understanding his past and with the inspirational work gives us the light about healing the emotional wounds.  It is a story I read once but will remember for the rest of my life, for the sake of learning forgiveness and appreciation in life.	2004-08-31
US	22055367	R30Z8ZMQDOL43U	1878424483	748655099	The Four Agreements Companion Book: Using the Four Agreements to Master the Dream of Your Life (Toltec Wisdom)	Books	5	100	107	N	N	A Practical Guide to Help Us Decode Our Emotional Garbage	After reading The Four Agreements, I felt that it is great to learn the four agreements V be impeccable with your word, dont take anything personally, dont make assumptions and always try your best.  However, that book did not have enough practical ideas or skills to guide me decode our old agreements/emotional garbage, how to be aware and how to transform.  This book has a practical guide to teach us how to live in the four agreements.  It teaches us how to become aware and how to transform.   <br /> <br />1. Bring the Awareness to Surface so We Can Let Go of the Parasites, the Old Agreement, the Judge, the Victim, the fear <br /> <br />2. How to transform by the second attention (become aware and not act on or judge too fast), action-reaction, attach-detach  <br /> <br />Don Miguel Ruiz has a very playful style of writing when he was telling us the above skills.  I think in essence, the above  skills suggests us to slow down our thinking process to give us enough time to steer our feelings and actions to apply the  four agreements and to enjoy life intensely within the moment.  His dialogue about the four agreements and other peoples stories about applying the four agreements give me hope that I can live my life with what he has suggested.  The dialogue helps us to decode certain emotional garbage and the dialogue helps me to break the old agreements.  It is definitely a must-read if you have read the four agreements.  Again, reading is not enough.  However, putting the new adopted philosophies into everydays life is the way to turn the dream of hell to become the dream of heaven. <br />	2004-08-26
US	22055367	R1W0OZNXWULCCN	1558745157	289981450	The Lost Boy: A Foster Child's Search for the Love of a Family	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Sad Story that Brings Important Message Home	The Lost Boy helps me to understand the world of \\"troubled\\" kids who have abusive background.  I will not say I know it all after just reading A Child Called \\"It\\" and The Lost Boy.  However, these two books definitely are moving and help me understand why some of the kids' behavior that we perceived as bad.  I now understand why abused children have a tendency to do certain things just to earn love and acceptance.  It is because they deprive the acceptance which they cannot receive from their own family.  It also allows me to understand how their painful past still haunts them every day, after the rescue.  These two books remind me that I want to love and to care about the abused kids.  It also brings me the message I cannot take all the good things happening around me for granted.      I have empathy towards their pain and fear through reading this book.  David Pelzer has an excellent writing style that brings readers right to the situation.  It is like watching a movie with the exception you can feel the pain from the author's eye/heart first hand.  I am currently half way through the third book \\"A Man Named Dave\\".  I am looking forward to reading the author's path in how he turn himself from the victim stand into helping other individuals who went through an abusive past.  I am looking forward to understanding how David Pelzer let go and forgive his own past.	2004-08-25
US	22055367	R1M47G5WXXYUNY	0767900421	356843811	How One of You Can Bring the Two of You Together: Breakthrough Strategies to Resolve Your Conflicts and Reignite Your Love	Books	5	37	43	N	N	For One Who Wants to Be a Better Soul Mate	Honestly, I was reading this book when I had my first heart break.  I was in search for answers, in search for the truth and resolution.  If you happen to experience a heart break, reading this book can possibly have two outcomes to you: <br /> <br />1. It might create an illusion as that you can do things to bring your partner back. <br /> <br />NOTE:  At that point, you just have to make sure your partner/ex-partner wants to work with you.  Remember, your partner/ex-partner, too, has a choice.  He/she might not be making the wisest choice but they have a right to choose what they want in life too.  Coming to learn how to respect your partner/ex-partners choice of leaving is a challenge.  Id say this.  If your partner/ex-partner is determined to leave, shut himself/herself down regardless, that love was probably not meant to be.  It is then we need to take good care of our own emotions and have the desire to heal than getting yourself hurt by trying numerous things with that partner/ex-partner suggested in the book. <br /> <br />2. You can learn from your past mistakes and this book will prepare you to become a better soul mate.   <br /> <br />NOTE: Susan Page taught me many things I did not know when I was in that previous long-term relationship.  She taught me the importance to view relationship problems in a different way, a way that is positive which is extremely tough when you have fights/differences with your partner.  She taught me the importance of showing appreciation and taking care of myself as an individual while one is in a relationship.  The book also taught me the importance in communicating expectations and needs than expecting the other party to just know.  Most importantly, I think a successful relationship is about two individuals who are self-reliant and content about lives join together.  That is what makes relationships beautiful and grateful.   <br /> <br />I wish I would have read this book in my previous relationship.  However, withoutthe heart break, I guess I would not have been in search for answers, the truth and to have the desire to be a better person and a better soul mate.  This book is truly recommended for people who are in relationships and people who fall out of relationships but want to learn from the past mistakes.  Enjoy reading! <br />	2004-08-12
US	22055367	R2TBFYNH8IUKNB	0375508066	595936475	Broken Open: How Difficult Times Can Help Us Grow	Books	5	29	31	N	N	Wonderful Book to Guide Us to Grow and to Transform	I think this book, Broken Open, is definitely a great book to read for spiritual growth.  I respect the author having the courage in bringing her personal past experience to teach us how to break open and to blossom.  It is simply wonderful to read other individuals' Phoenix process (transformation).  Most importantly, it allowed me to understand I am not the only one going through some drastic changes in life.  Sometimes, we all just need to have that extra support system to realize we are not the only ones going through challenges in life.  This book simply has the effect to provide me that extra support that I need so much in order to grow.      I also appreciate how the author sections the stories, with sections presenting personal stories around different topics such as relationship, birth, death and life changes.  The book taught me how to \\"break open\\" than to \\"break down\\" and suffer.  It is a beautiful book to recommend.	2004-08-10
US	22055367	R2JW81B2FZX5NZ	1878424319	991834329	The Four Agreements: A Practical Guide to Personal Freedom (A Toltec Wisdom Book)	Books	5	9	13	N	N	Enlightening Experience	I picked up this book in the airport to fly off to a business trip which I did not want to go to.  It was absolutely an enlightening experience reading this book and have given me a little joy each day out of my boring business trip.  As required by work, my life revolves traveling and lately I have experienced some great challenges in life.   <br /> <br />I have been a person that has adopted many emotional garbages that are \\"programmed\\" in my mind I do not even know about (the old agreements).  For years, I allowed the parasites absorb my positive energy and I allowed the Judge and the victim mentality to suck my energy away.  This book, along with some others I have read so far, helped me in my journey of the spiritual growth.  This book, especially, taught me how precious life is and how much I need to deeply appreciate all the things I have in life.  I have never found the need to appreciate this much about life till I finished this book.  The book also taught me how to love, how to forgive and how to be gentle with myself and others.   <br /> <br />Again, as I wrote in other reviews, one single book is not going to lead you to the road of happiness or to live life with contentment.  The key is, you have to make the determination to change, to know what needs to be changed and to find inner peace.  It requires an open-minded heart, inner strength and determination to break your old agreements and to adopt the new agreements.  Challenges in life is going to tempt each one of us to slip back to the old way.  However, may all of us find that inner strength to love, and to create a heaven on earth.  May we find the strength to keep the new agreements to be the better self.	2004-08-09
US	22055367	RVKQV7JHU9DIZ	1558743669	817918233	A Child Called It: One Child's Courage to Survive	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Lead you to learn appreciating life	I am a person who have went through some challenging times but was not abused when I was a child.  However, I learned stories about other kids that were being abused.  This book taught me how much life has to offer and how much I need to appreciate the wonderful things happen to us.  It also raised my concern about kids who are abused as a child.  The book definitely raised my awareness about child abuse issue.  I think our society refuse to take child abuse issue seriously and child abuse is kept as a family secret.  The abuser tends to paint a bad picture that abused kids are \\"bad\\" kids or these kids are troubled and need to be \\"displined\\" or \\"punished\\" in a severe extent.  Some of these kids might even be referred to as manipulative and liars.   <br /> <br />However, often times, we never open our heart to listen what these kids have to say about what they went through.  In addition, most of the kids have trouble articulate the facts happening and are already being brandwashed by the abuser that these kids are rotten, bad people that do not deserve love and care.  In return, many of the child abuse cases kept in secret, carrying poor self-esteem and carry to their adulthood, not understanding why in return they become an abuser to their kids.   <br /> <br />This book need to be spreaded and should be a must-read for everyone.  Kids are our future and they all deserve a happy childhood in order to create a great society for the future.  It starts with parents that are loving, caring and encouraging to kids and parents making their best effort to create love and harmony in their family.	2004-08-07
