US	22620104	R2RYWPXJVIUR4X	0521409675	246733300	Ritual in Early Modern Europe (New Approaches to European History)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Great Inquiry into European Ritual in the Early Modern Era	Muir's \\"Ritual in Early Modern Europe\\" approaches the idea of ritual, its impact on society and its pervasiveness.  All rituals contain an element of change and rituals occur every day in our lives and all contain the consistence of the prelimenal the limenal and the postlimenal steps to the change.   And while the author divides the rituals to those of the lower and upper body they all follow the same basic structure.  The books provides very interesting accounts of Charaviri which is \\"rough music\\" - but really a ritualized form of primitive justice where the perpetrator of an act is embarrassed into proper behavior.  Further the book describes the ritual calendar and the assault the reformation attempted on it.  Most of these rituals are religious fast and feast days. Obviously ritual won the battle though often the names and figures are changed but the underlying ritual remains constant.   Another amazing account of ritual described in this book is that of the Sacre where the king of France is both coronated and deified.  This is really interesting stuff and though bordering the high academic is a very enjoyable read that is engaging and well written enough to not be dull in the least bit.    The book is very useful to the historian but would be interesting even if history is not your main source for reading enjoyment.  This book should be definitely read with some background on Early Modern Europe (even a 101 course on European History might be sufficient)  I would suggest that this is a book to be read before attempting any in depth study of the reformation the middle ages or even Rome.  The concepts developed here will be of great benefit to anyone trying to understand the mindset often the specific nature of rituals in these times and really lends a hand to the developing professional historian who wishes to connect ideas and further develop deeper historical inquiries.  This book is packed with well documented data for a book that covers such a long period.Further this book contains a great bibliography and is sure to inspire further inquiry into the nature of ritual. I highly recommend this to all students of history but further believe that anyone with an ounce of curiosity will enjoy this book.    Ted Murena	2005-09-19
US	22620104	R10SREXMHAJCPD	030010717X	720221333	John Townsend: Newport Cabinetmaker (Metropolitan Museum of Art Publications)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Fascinating view of Newport Furinure and Maker	The gulf between appreciation and understanding is immense and while anyone can look upon a John Townsend highboy and see that it is beautiful, understanding the world in which it was built (which was without electric tools), the builder and the technological aspect of cabinetry makes these fine pieces of furniture all the more awe-inspiring.  John Townsend, who was a shining star in the rather large furniture industry in New England of which Newport might be considered the capital, is all the more interesting because his pieces and his life have been documented.  This work that was produced by the Metropolitan Museum of art is fascinating even if you aren't a connoisseur of fine furniture.  It is brilliant, well written and most importantly full of beautiful color photographs of all of the known John Townsend works along with several other masterpieces of 18th century New England furniture.      I don't know whether its best to call this work an art book, a collector's reference or a history book but it serves well in all capacity.  As an art book it does an extremely great job of describing in word and image the qualities of a master cabinetmaker.  Being a master cabinetmaker was (is) a talent and a skill not unlike being a great painter.  The difference is the medium but similarly unique styles are developed skills are honed and a great deal of personality is brought about in each work.  As a collectors reference this book shows what makes Newport furniture and furniture of New England unique and also gives a great catalogue of the work that is currently in existence.  Finally as a historical account the book does good justice to describing Newport's furniture industry and what made New England the place where Furniture making would reach its American zenith in the mid 18th century.    I am happy to own this book and know that it will be often viewed and re-read.  If you are a fan of colonial America or fascinated by early American Furniture you need this book.While it may appear expensive it is an excellent reference a great book for the coffee table or to be gently placed on your Chippendale lowboy.    Ted Murena	2005-09-12
US	22620104	R1G7M2A5BW7DJ4	0814758169	379374272	Godel's Proof	Books	5	27	27	N	N	Great Description of Difficult  Work - An Excellent Introduction	I had read \\"On Formally Undecidable Propositions of Principia Mathematica and Related Systems\\" By the mathermatician himself and then found Ernest Nagel's \\"Godel's Proof\\" nearly by accident.  The titles of the work are examples of the main diffeernce of the two: the latter is far more simple and comprehensible.  Diving right into Goedels work with a some decent understanding of mathematics and a thourough reading of \\"Principia Mathematica\\" by Russel and Whitehead, I thought I would be able to handle it.  I was able to comprehend Goedel but found it gave me a headache to read more than a few pages at a time. Getting through after far too many hours and little true understanding.  It seemed that while I could grasp the concepts I wasnt so clear on the subtlties of Goedel's theorem. I was more than happy to read Nagel's Work which is very approachable and exemplifies the important points that the average person might breeze through in Goedel's work.  This being said the work of Nagel should be considered an introduction to Goedel's work and both have their place as excellent works.     I would recommend that everyone who is interested in the philosophical and mathematical implications of the incompleteness theorem read this work and keep it on hand as they attempt Goedel.  I find that people seem to get the basic idea of incompleteness but overextend or misunderstand its reach in life and in meaning. The theorem itself is among the most interesting mathematics and it is a philosophically profound idea that people at large dont grasp since the system of mathematics appears to work well in nearly all situations.  This book will be enjoyable and easy to understand even if you dont have a degree in mathematics so long as you tkae it slow but understnading of the Principia and mathematical philosophy is key to getting the most out of this.      Ted Murena	2005-09-12
US	22620104	RBLEUX2RSH7I1	0679463356	887736591	Shalimar the Clown: A Novel	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Artistic Vivid and Very Well Done - Shalimar is a Good Read	This new and very interesting work of Salomon Rushdie isn't about clowns although it is humorous in a wry and intellectual way and is thoroughly captivating, enjoyable and life affirming.  Shalimar a Kahsmiri Muslim, who enters the plot as an lover of a Hindu dancer, becomes an assassin and the work is off in an enigma of plot development as the question of suffering because of ones beliefs is always at hand. The novel centers around diplomacy and describes well how diplomacy within a family seeps into local diplomacy and ultimately into international diploamacy and ultimately shows how interconnected we are and how close we actually are to our enemies - both politically and socially. <br /> <br />The novel's strong points do outweigh the vast passages of opinion and didactics that fill some of the pages but by the end of the novel the prose enters the realm of beautiful poetry that resolves in catharsis.  The author who is known for his controversial \\"Satanic Verses\\" shows that he is an artist of very good literature.  His own ordeals and sufferings seep into the pages making the novel feel real and vital.  While the struggle in Kashmir may seem far and away this is a just a point of departure for a novel that has wide appeal and should be enjoyed. <br /> <br />Ted Murena  <br />	2005-09-06
US	22620104	R571J2WMQLT83	052134770X	115357758	001: A History of the Crusades Vol. I: The First Crusade and the Foundations of the Kingdom of Jerusalem (Volume 1)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Very Excellent Point of Departure of a Misunderstood Time	Runciman's \\"A History of the Crusades\\" might very well seem daunting at first glance.   Three volumes devoted to a well known but little understood series of events spanning several hundred years may seem like it will take a lot of note taking just to get through. Rest Assured this is certainly not the case.  Keeping the narrative lively and and maintaing a fast pace these books read very quickly.  Keeping in Mind that the period covered in these volumes stretches over about 500 years three volumes of medium size still is just a scratch on the surface of the Crusades.  Following the copious footnotes the reader will easily understand that there is plenty of more material that could be explored if desired.  <br /> <br />All that being said this set provides a very succinct account of the Crusades and also answers the question of \\"what caused the Crusades.  Runciman's answers to this question are Sundry but they are all worth exploring.  Using the first 100 pages or so the author explores the Muslims and The Byzantines in their geographical and theological  conflicts.  The author does a good job to paint the Muslims not as \\"bad guys\\" but in fact very humane in some instances.  But the situation ultimately sees the Muslim empires reaching their zenith by the middle of the 10th century and Byzantium though still temporally strong, is the weaker player in the East.  In the west by this time Muslim conquest of the Iberian Peninsula has caused great concern and it isnt long before French Knights are pouring over the pyrnees to fight back.  Here, Europeans get their first taste of \\"holy war\\".  As fervent as the fighters are over religious matters far more realistic matters like the need for new lands for the nobility as generations of nobles have carved ancestral estates.  Primogeniture is coming into play and overall the desire for more land may be equal to the true desire to ransom captive holy cities.  When Urban II calls for crusade in Le Puy he is astounded at the enthusiasm of his audience.  Not long thereafter (1097) Peter the Hermit humbly leads the first \\"crusade\\" which is ultimately a failure. <br /> <br />The history goes on and on but never loses its intensity with the taking of Antioch as the high point of the work. It is an amazing desctiption of the tension between the franks and normans that is frought with near defeats. This is the first of a fantastic set of books that I recomend to all interested individuals but is probably best suited to post high-schoolers.  I further recommend background on Muslim history, Byzantium and Western Middle Ages history as it is also valuable to getting the most out of this book.  If interested in any particular portion of the history the author gives great acedemic footnotes that can lead the reader further in their quest for understanding. <br /> <br />- Ted Murena	2005-09-01
US	22620104	R2II1DNTV3MDBE	0679772693	620118114	A Short History of Byzantium	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Great Survey of Byzantine Empire - Norwhich did it!	Since Edward Gibbon completely destroyed the popular perspective of the eastern empire in his later volumes of Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire, the Byzantine Empire, which by all accounts was a very long sustaining empire, has been difficult.  However John Norwhich's \\"a History of Byzantium\\", which is in itself a condensed version of his massive three volume work, provides a great overview of the Byzantine world from the fall of the west to its final decline in 1453. This work is packed with anecdote and interesting historical ideas and really is an enjoyable read. While he often quotes Gibbon, he is very even handed in his approach.  You cant help but marvel at the massive changes in fortune from one emperor, to the next and the reading the book is something like watching a train wreck in slow motion as the Muslims continually siege the eastern empire. From the very begining it seems that each emperor's style of rule affected the empire so much that there really seems to be little consistency in the empire. The one warning I would give is that a basic understanding of Roman history as well as Persian/Islamic history is key to grasping as much as possible out of this work.  Beyond that I would also suggest a working knowledge of the European Middle ages as well as a basic timeline of Byzantine history.  With this skeletal information the book will be a fantastic read and although you will probably want to know more about a lot of what you read.  But if this is the case fear not the unabridged version is available and that should satiate even the most hearty of appetites.<br /><br />After this work you may want to consider reading Runciman's \\"A History of the Crusades\\".<br />Ted Murena	2005-08-18
US	22620104	RSCGZ7PL97681	0140424385	935878950	The Canterbury Tales	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Better Version Of the Tales You Will Not Find	Chaucer is an author with unusual staying power.  Sure we read classical writing and appreciate it but it doesn't seem to have the impact that Chaucer's Canterbury tales still have on us.  We can see ourselves and our foibles in the pilgrims he writes about and the stories he attributes to them.  To think that this was written in a time period we relegate as a time period of ignorance and religion! We can imagine that even in a time where superstition ruled there were still people that that saw the world quite similarly as we do today and certainly Chaucer was among that group.    This version is incredibly well translated and provides a succinct introduction including a nice brief biography of the author.  Also the notes are pretty good - I just wish they were footnoted rather than all in the notes section.    So if you if you think reading a work that is six hundred years old might be a little boring start in out of sequence and go right to the second tale - The Millers Tale.  Like something straight out of a Jerry Springer show if this story doesn't give reason to laugh than I don't know what will.  The only hang up you may have is reading in the metered format that the tales are written in.  I will say that it is not difficult to get the rhythm o the words and before long you won't even notice.  The book is relatively thick but it is fast reading so don't be discouraged by that - its well worth it. Reading Chaucer gives a glimpse of how the secular mind worked in the middle ages.  He provides straightforward writing that isnt simple but yet isnt overly complex verbose.  Without being totally austere he can tell interesting stories quickly and, since (as we all know) brevity is the essence of wit, be remarkably funny.    If you are reading this for school you should be excited to know that not only are you reading a seminal work of secular English writing that is referenced throughout our culture.  Also it is actually fun to read. If you are thinking about reading this just for fun you are doing the right thing I waited too long to pick this book up and but I am really glad I did it is thoroughly enjoyable and while while a little historical background may help I doubt you will need a degree in history to appreciate this one.    -- Ted Murena	2005-08-12
US	22620104	RLMX3LWET9X5B	0140445943	225564144	The Earliest English Poems (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Great Early Anglo Saxon Writings.  Good Notes Too!	Let me first say that this is a great introductory work and I think very highly of it. However, this collection's title is sort of a misnomer.  It should really be called \\"Introducton\\" or \\"excerpts from Pre-Norman English Writings\\".  To think of all of the work as poetry is sort of strange since nearly all writing from the area in the time period was written in a metered fashion.  Regardless of this, the book provides great insight into the Anglo-Saxon literature of pre-Norman times including pieces of the works of Bede.  It seems that there is actually more notes and explanation than is there source material (actual writing from the time period)and this is very useful in reading this book and will help in understanding other writings of the period as well. We are seldom exposed to this sort of writing in our schooling so a little explanation is key to gathering any sort of understanding of the people that wrote it.  To dive right into the source material without some background would be meaningless.    The finest (and longest) piece of writing in the book is \\"The Battle of Maldon\\" which describes a Viking raid on an English coastal village.  It is spectacular and gripping writing and to our sensationalist minds this work is well within our comfort level with plenty of violence and horror. Again the notes to this piece are great.    I recommend this book to anyone who wants some to learn more about early medieval writing and pre Norman England.  It is not the world easiest stuff but it isn't that difficult either.  This book is great because it is so difficult to come across works of this era is actually quite difficult. If you like this book check out Bede's \\"Ecclesiastical History of England\\" it's a little more difficult but again very rewarding.    - Ted Murena	2005-08-05
US	22620104	R3CQBS4Z186WFV	0140441379	8490560	The Nibelungenlied: Prose Translation (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Great work of Medieval Poetry - Superb Translation + Xtras	The Nibelungenleid is as important to European culture and literature as the Iliad and the Aurthurian legends. It is also a key to understanding central European medieval culture and presents a great data source of the thought patterns of the late medieval mind.   All of that being said if you are reading this work simply for enjoyment you will probably be bored and enjoy more modern distillations of the story or the Volsung Saga (which too is an important work).  A casual reader may very easily become annoyed by the constant references to silken clothes and red gold shields and that the dramatic scenes and battles are described in the same manner as the mundane exposition.  But this is also important to scholars and the actual story is just one part of what makes this version great. This book excels in its great introduction and appendix material.  Not just providing notes on the translation and some brief footnotes like other versions.   But this book goes into depth on the age of the poem, who the poet might have been and even explains the meter that the poem would have been sung in.  For these reasons this version really is an excellent book. <br /> <br />I recommend this work to anyone interested in medieval literature and German History.  If you don't fall in some way into these categories you'll probably want to stay away from this one. But if you do fall into these categories get this and make sure you read all of the extra material it is very well done and makes reading the story a very enriching experience. <br /> <br /> <br /> <br />Ted Murena  <br />	2005-07-20
US	22620104	RBLVHG4S7SMRN	0486277240	582598023	Introduction to Mathematical Philosophy	Books	4	17	17	N	N	Good introduction To Mathematical Logic	Bertand Russell's \\"Introduction to Mathematical Philosophy\\" provides the reader with a great understanding of mathematical philosophy in a very simple and straightforward manner. Though this is an introductory work it may not be casual reading to all who endeavor to read it. Beginning with definition of numbers and sets it expands to provide definitions of simple and complex and builds to provide a good understanding of the logic behind mathematics.  While much of what is spoken about may seem very elementary the logic behind certainly is not. While the book is not nearly as expansive ad \\"Principia Mathematica\\" it is a good distillation of the bigger work and provides a great introduction to anyone wishing to explore that work. I recommend this book to anyone interested in formal logic and believe that it should be in the required reading for any formal logic introductory class.  Further anyone interested in reading Goedel's work's which expand on Russell's work needs at least to read this work prior to Goedel.  I find this book to be very succinct and readable and ultimately very worthy of the effort it takes to read. <br /> <br />-- Ted Murena  <br />	2005-07-08
US	22620104	R12AZXWSRZTHXT	0471683345	345595532	Darknet: Hollywood's War Against the Digital Generation	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Fascinating and Very Current: Darknet is Important	Now more than ever technology is reshaping our world and the way we interact with it. We watch what we want when we want, we comment on Weblogs and download hours of music on to a device the size of a cassette tape. JD Lasica's work explores the media industries war against a new type of media that is growing at viral speeds: Personal Media. The book is alive with great examples anecdotes and in a world where every other person has an ipod and people spend more time in front of pc monitors than they do in front of TV screens this book is timely as it describes the fight that the big professional media is waging against the darknet.    While it's also called bottom up media and home brew media (among several other names) in a world of blogs, web pages and podcasting it seems that personal media is everywhere and with everything needed to produce widely available and rather inexpensive it's easy to create. So what's the big deal? Well first and foremost much of this media is created by cutting pasting altering and just plain using copyrighted material.     Unlike file sharing (like napster) where the users and proliferators copy and distribute copyrightable material as the original producers intended it to be, this new personal media changes the original intent of the media it uses. One of the first examples Lasica discusses is a DJ at a dance club who uses movie clips and sampled music in his show. While it surely is exciting it is illegal to show in public and for the intent to make money. - But this is a mere aside to the real issue.    With podcasts, (audio files downloadable for the ipod) downloadable on sites like [...] there you can download hundreds of different programs on any number of things big name media is chopped and altered in numerous ways. This of course is bothers the media industries and although no one (or at least) very few are making any real money on it media giants are spending time and money to put an end to it.     The work is well written,intelligible and fun to read. This type of media is not going away and while this is so it probably will never overtake the professional media's role. The author suggests that people like the gritty realism of this type of media. They appreciate that someone is making an effort and that personal media isn't so clean cut as the home grown stuff. The professional media companies will always exist and frankly I imagine that they will actually get better in the long run because of this counter voice. Either they will pick up the best of the darknet or they will at least learn what people want to see.     This book is a must read for all involved in the media industry and anyone else interested in the immediate future of media. The work could not have been written at a more appropriate time and will surely be wildly popular.    Ted Murena	2005-06-10
US	22620104	R24ZE4LFC7P3AX	0670033820	563081102	What the Dormouse Said: How the 60s Counterculture Shaped the Personal Computer	Books	4	18	20	N	N	From Cultural Upheaval Came  Modern PC Technology	As all major movements and innovations seem to come out of periods of cultural upheaval so true is it of the computer revolution that brought about the information age.  Here we see that Steve Wozniak's Apple one was just an immediate cause the soon to come home computing explosion.  It wasn't until brew-club mate Steve Jobs saw that the market was ripe to start selling computers that the market took off.  But underlying this well known story of garage-built computing is a much deeper and much more interesting story of how the field of computer science developed in sequence with the intellectual community and how it wasn't until these fields clashed (or symbiotically nurtured) with 1960's psychedelic counterculture as only California could have produced it that the computer science really took off.  \\"What the Dormouse Said\\" explores how the computer industry needed freedom from the heavy top down institutions of the East Coast and found it in Silicon Valley.    Of course it all started with transistors that TI built into integrated circuits in 1958.  This was the essential technology that made the revolution possible and though the IC wasn't perfect it was only a few years before the idea of a home PC was possible.  As possible as it was, Digital's CEO Ken Olson said that there was no reason anyone would want a computer in their home.  This backward view, like Bill Gates in 1981 when he said there is no reason a PC would require more than 640K of RAM, seems laughable in hindsight yet it was these philosophies, among forward thinking men no less, that probably slowed down the process.  It only follows that if these were the innovators closed-mindedness must have been the prevailing stance within the computer science community. Nevertheless progress did happen and thinking that within twenty years of the invention of the transistor solid stat computing was a solid technology it could very well be that these years saw a far greater technological leap than we have seenin the last 20 years.    As always is the case it was midlevel people that truly brought about the computer revolution.   These people; the mid-level intelligent doers not the business leaders were able to thrive technically in the environment of the 1960's that questioned everything.  This questioning allowed the cutting edge technology industry to break apart from stifling corporate mentalities of the current tech businesses and even universities that were still under the yoke of 19th century corporate mentality to a great extent.  It was Stanford University that offered a strange mix of willingness to fund computer research and yet was a hot bead of counterculture. As a university that had a small amount of prestige yet by no means an overwhelmingly stifling atmosphere it was a breeding ground for new ideas.  This naturally turned out to be a nurturing atmosphere for technical innovation.     John Markoff, explores this time of innovation that resulted in the fledgling PC industry.  The book is less than a narrative and more of a mix of events accounts of people within the industry and researched texts. It is a very fast and interesting read.  The connection of drugs and the enhancment consciousness and the idea that computers could augment the human intellect that Doug Englebart apparently had was visionary, though quite possibly accidental. The Drug culture of the 1960's at least opened the door to the idea of a world connected by computers.  Reading this book really makes one aware of how visionary and pioneering these young computer scientists really were.   I have been a fan of Markoff and his articles for a long time and I see he really put a lot of effort into making this book lucid and vital.  This history is very important to us now and it had me call into question weather WWII or the PC revolution was the most important event of the 20th century.  The only problem is that the book seems somewhat disjointed and I had trouble following the book at times.Overall I think this book is fascinating and should be required reading for engineering students.  I        Ted Murena	2005-04-29
US	22620104	RKJKQ5YU6RYK4	0684829495	339554706	Inside the Third Reich	Books	5	18	18	N	N	Best Insider History of the Third Reich	Albert Speer's \\"Inside the Third Reich\\" ranks, in my opinion, among the three seminal books covering the history of Nazi Germany. (Albert Shirer's \\"Rise and Fall of the Third Reich\\" and Heinze Hohne's \\"Order of the Death's Head\\" round out the group) This book excels where the others fail in its elegance and readability.  Set up as a memoir of his life Albert Speer lucidly provides a very insider account of the Third Reich throughout the 1930's and through the war.  Speer himself as an architect was extremely close to Hitler and often was in more intimate circles with him than Goering, Himmler, and Hess.   The book is a fast read in spite of its large size.  It is written for the casual reader though a general knowledge of German history is probably better.    Overall however Speer's use of anecdotes and his style at large is indicative of his intellect and upper class upbringing. This book is certainly a must read for those interested in WWII and German history. <br /> <br />The book naturally begins with Speer's upbringing and education in Manheim.  The author spends little time here though and within the first 25 pages we read how Speer casually became a party member, as did his mother, and how he first began to interact with the party.  Here we have to be a little skeptical of his account of the story.  He says quite emphatically that he did not join the party for through any political motivation yet in 1930, when he joined, the NSDAP did not have the extreme power it held a few years later.  It seems unlikely that an architect who claimed to have little political motivation would go out of his way to join a workers party.  Whatever his motivations were however he joined the party and before long he went from being an officer in the NSKK to taking on a few architectural projects for the party including redoing Joseph Goebbels' office and the decorations for Joseph von Hindenburg's funeral in 1934.  By this time he was traveling with Hitler and realizing how captivated with architecture the Fuhrer was.  His biggest achievement during these years was the building of the rally grounds at the zeppelin fields outside of Nuremburg. Hitler was extraordinarily pleased with Speer's work and by this time he was within his inner circle and required to wear a party uniform in public.  It is around this time that he begins creating his expansive plans for Germania.  Naturally the plans never resulted in any buildings but this plan became Hitler's hobby and made enforced Hitler's affinity for Speer.  As peace became tenuous and war became inevitable Speer still holds on to the fact that he wasn't aware of the big picture.  Yet within a few years he is named minister of armaments and certainly by this time he is aware.  He shows and described his brilliance for logistics and his ability to make great judgments on the fly.  Here we get even more fascinating accounts which you will have to read. <br /> <br />Overall, the book is the best insider source for the goings on at the very top of party and the high command. His tone is apologetic and honestly I do believe him.  Early in the work he says how while in prison he re-read many of Hitler's speeches and found them utterly lifeless. This book is enlightening also in that it shows how disorganized and distracted the party really was both in the early days and throughout the war.  Reading it becomes strikingly amazing that the party could even come to power when it was so factionalized.  This book is a fascinating read and is very enjoyable.  This is one that a historian or layman can enjoy equally. As the 60th anniversary of the end of the war approaches take some time and look back into those strange years. <br /> <br />    <br /> <br /> <br /> <br />Ted Murena  <br />	2005-04-27
US	22620104	R5Q70L0NYF2S2	0192836552	22504561	Pensees and Other Writings (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	32	35	N	N	The Spirtual/Logical Mind Reveals Thoughful Comtemplations	Pascal's Pensees are among the more interesting and enlightened of Christian writings.  Pascal was a brilliant 17th century mathematician and scientist who tabulated binomial coefficients, provided groundwork in the field of hydrodynamics and also invented the syringe.  But for some reason he seems to be known best for his \\"Pensees\\" (thoughts).  These Pensees are deeply religious but like Pascal's Wager (the argument that it makes sense to believe in god even if it can't be proven scientifically) they are also extraordinarily logical.  And this is the crux of the enigma that is Blaise Pascal: how could a man of such brilliant reason also have such unshakeable faith?  The answer is to some degree in the Pensees but at the same it is also something so sublime that it touches the realm of existentialism.  Regardless, the Pensees are really thoughtful writings not all of which confront the existence of God.  The also provide interesting insight into the intellect of the early age of reason. <br /> <br /> <br />Many compare Pascal to Montaigne and though I agree that they came from the same stock they certainly fall into different camps.  Montaigne was an intellectual bon vivant and if one reads his \\"Essays\\" it is easy to see that his value in reason and science is not nearly as complete as that of Pascal.  I really enjoy Montaigne and find myself thinking more like he did than Pascal.  My belief is that their style of straightforward easy eloquence is similar due to the fact that they were both French intellectuals but the comparison should end there.  The Pensees are great and I don't think they were meant to be read with any speed.  Buying a copy is a great investment because it provides a series of aphorisms and thoughts for a lifetime of contemplation.   <br /> <br />- Ted Murena	2005-04-20
US	22620104	R1XHRKRICJKLW	0415254086	411173754	Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus (Routledge Classics) (Volume 123)	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Intresting but Very Difficult Logic:  Genius or Garbage	Tractatus Logico Philosophicus is a 90 page book composed of relatively simple sentences. So what is the big deal, right? Well this book has been construed both as a work of absolute genius and total garbage and the reasons why are manifold.  This book is not in anyway casual reading and will certainly require more time to read than any other 90 page book with under 200 words per page that you have come across even if you read it as a tour de force.  The question: is any of it worth reading at all?    I started reading this book with the belief that I was going to be reading something revolutionary.  Its formula of noting each single paragraph idea or concept into a numeric scheme in which integers mark each major concept and integers followed by decimal points marks sub-points certainly appeals to the logical minded and reminds us of the dewey decimal system if not the bible.  Further the concise sentences that formulate each paragraph of the text requires the reader not to read the words as words but as logical actions. Here is where it all gets too tricky for its attempted efficiency.  The terms used were often confused, switched and were never solidly defined.  This makes deciphering meaning next to impossible. Each statement on its face vale seems rational but when read a second time it is apparent that the book is written like a list of Zen Koans and when read together they obfuscate each other to complete unintelligibility.  Yes, this work is more confusing than the Roadmap to Peace in the Middle East.      However, I will say that it is enigmatic in its confusion.    This work, the only work Wittgenstein published in his lifetime, was even denounced by it author in his later life.  This book is incredibly complicated and though many claim it to be chock full of brilliance I think it is both too Spartan in its style and too confused to provide a practical system.  II think if the author shoes to beef up this work and preface it with definition of terms and aflowchart of the logical problems or something it could have been a far more successful work.  As Will Durrant said \\"It is the philosophical mind that requires the most time to mature\\" and I believe this statement fits the Tractatus well:  It is certain that the author was a genius but the work is sophomoric in it conception.   So go on an struggle with this if you must  but be warned that the system it develops is flawed and nearly impossible to follow.	2005-04-19
US	22620104	R1XDSSQCYBM2T0	0446677450	156348512	Rich Dad, Poor Dad: What the Rich Teach Their Kids About Money--That the Poor and Middle Class Do Not!	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Common Sense yet Lucid: No magic but Informative	I read this book in a half of a morning as was surprised to see how common sense Kyosaki's method is.  I am actually surprised that a book based solidly upon assets and liabilities can do so well when it is such common business practice. Beyond that Kyosaki's suggestion that becoming rich through trading stocks it misguidance to a readership looking optimistically towards riches that could yield potentially horrible results. To be perfectly honest about this book: if you couldn't come up with the concepts inside this work by the time you finished middle school you are way behind the eight ball.  That being said if you haven't had any financial training or just haven't pondered solid methodology toward building capital this book is an excellent point of departure.  The writing style makes grasping concepts simple yet it is a little bit patronizing to the reader and feels often like a script of an infomercial.   But this book is filled with sound and solid advice for the most part.  But rather than telling average American people they should be buying stocks and 1031's etc the emphasis should be left on saving more and investing with guaranteed returns and spending less money.   Of setting your life up for the best possible financial outcomes is important and needs to be ingrained in the mind of anyone who wants to be financially responsible. <br /> <br />Bottom line: if you feel you are lacking understanding in these areas read this book.  <br /> <br /> <br /> <br />Ted Murena  <br />	2005-04-13
US	22620104	R1LCM56AMP5EGI	0691122946	25166027	On Bullshit	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Important and Conceptually Great: Thats no BS.	On Bullsh** provides a much needed entry point into a societal problem that requires examination.  The problem is that we accept willingly and whole-heartedly the existence of manifest non-fact in all of our communication.  The essence of this problem begins with linguistics, I assume and our inability as a society to effectively articulate itself.  However if this were the extent of the issue the debate would be something to for pedants to torture themselves over and the rest of the world to ignore.  The problem goes much further than mere  misuse of language, it actually extends to every single aspect of communication available today in that in that Frankfurt calls bullsh** includes misrepresentation of truth, our beliefs and idle talk.  These barriers to truth are found everywhere and we accept them that is the underlying idea employed in the writing of this book.     So how is this book?: Honestly, in my opinion the book is probably better in its aim than in its execution.  Its aim is to make people aware of the problem we face in communication.  Using the provocative, if not humorous title, the author has chosen, it is going to be noticed by many.  Given the brevity and well chosen path used to make its points, the work requires little time to read.  This being said it will strike the target well by getting a huge volume of people to pick it up and at least read a few pages into it and make them aware of the problem. It is obvious that the author understands the reading general habits of the majority and their general opposition to works of philosophy and has worked out a presumably winning formula to get the word out while still being somewhat scholarly.     Though I thoroughly enjoyed this work both in its scope and its content, the execution of this work leaves me wanting more.  The author did a good job at making the work philosophically rich by including Wittgenstein and St. Augustine which I see as both a bane and a boon to the work.  I feel quite confident that the average reader of this book is unaware of the basic tenets of Wittgenstein or Augustine and probably wouldn't even be able to place them correctly in the philosophical genres the contributed to. With that said, beyond not understanding the philosophical issues, using these philosophers in name and content does provide some meat to the argument.  Wittgenstein's disgust at Ezra Pound for say she felt like a \\"run over dog\\" is an good instance of what he is trying to describe and Augustine's delineation of the 8 types of liars, though flawed, still helps distinguish the lie from bullsh**.    So as to make this review shorter than the work itself I will stop my writing here.  This work is a must read for all communication, philosophy and sociology students and I would recommend this work as required reading for the introductory courses to any of these disciplines.  It will certainly be easy to read over a week if not for one class and will be a great opener for discussion.  Also because of its title I am sure students will want to read it.  Secondly for people in the work force this should be a must read.  It may help to break down all of the jargon and mindless expressions churned up and hackneyed by corporate America. For those in the advertising and marketing arena's this book should be digested and its ideas discussed in every closed door session: it actually might be refreshing for consumers to here an attempt at truth in advertising.  This book is a great beginning on a subject that needs to be treated more.  I liked the brevity and believe that more authors should publish essays in this form when they are of this caliber.  It is a great way for the academic laity to get their hands on such material.  It took just under an hour to read it and the argument flows well.  I hope Frankfurt, or anyone else for that matter, picks up where he has left off describing the issue of Bullsh** in fuller detail.    Ted Murena	2005-04-11
US	22620104	R1NXRL1CMHR7MI	0393317552	733405472	Guns, Germs, and Steel: The Fates of Human Societies	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Very Well Researched Inperfect  Argument	Jared Diamond's Thesis of \\"Guns Germs and Steel\\" is summed up in its enigmatic title: those who posses these items have an overwhelming advantage over those who don't.  This work, which I apparently was an early adopter seeing that it is still on the best seller list a full six years after I read it, is very well researched and rather convincing in its argument.  Of course the geographic argument is not really new but it is somewhat better logically (albeit possibly overly politically correct) than biological arguments for Europe's cultural supremacy.  The idea that mankind (and thus cultural information) generally migrates in east-west directions and moreover the idea that mankind moves for the sake of food and population growth also makes sense.  All of that being said, we can easily see why Europe and Asia made such great societal advances while the rest of the world remained in hunter gatherer societies since they had fertile land plenty of irrigation and movement through navigable rivers.  Further Diamond states it was the accident of firearms that allowed Europeans to subjugate the world.  I use the word accident because it seems most likely that development of the gun was done with out much realization of propulsion or the power of expanding gas.  Regardless of the how they came to be, Diamond states that it was guns that set the Europeans apart from the Chinese and here is where the logic of his argument reaches shaky ground: It is pretty obvious that it was a categorical and fundamental shift in thought on the part of the Europeans and a Isolationist view along with a world view that saw time as circular and nature as supreme on the part of the Chinese that caused the supremacy of Europe.   While it is true that the discovery of guns and other revolutionary technologies like the sextant, stirrup and windmill as well advancements in shipbuilding and mapmaking provided the tools for supremacy it was the shift in thought that nature and the world was to be dominated by civilized man that motivated Europeans toward supremacy. <br /> <br />While I can't fully buy in to Diamond's theory I really did enjoy reading the book.  It is full of great anecdotes and is very well written.  Diamond knows how to formulate an argument and skirt around the issues that might defeat it.  This book does provide an excellent account of the shift from hunter gatherer societies to farming and has a great value in having on of the best developed geographic argument for civilization I have come across.  Knowing this, I still highly recommend the work and though I am really amazed that this book has had such a long lifespan on best seller lists I can understand why: It is an enjoyable read and if the reader be uninformed it is very convincing.  I say give it a go and read this book at least you will be on the same page as literate America and if you are well informed on the subject the argument will be enjoyable and somewhat enlightening. <br /> <br /> <br /> <br />Ted Murena  <br />	2005-04-08
US	22620104	R2SQBBQJQYD8M5	0316529400	725523175	The Arms of Krupp: The Rise and Fall of the Industrial Dynasty That Armed Germany at War	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Among Manchester's Best	Lying somewhere just outside the realm of essential works of German History (like Johannes Janssen's \\"History of the German People\\" series or Hagen Schulze's \\"New History\\"), William Manchester's \\"Arms of Krupp\\" is one of the iconic works that through its sheer size or its provocative look into German through a family owned steel works happens to remain relevant and be a great source.  This book is details the chronology of a family and business marching in step (not always goose-stepping) with German history.  While that may not sound like a very interesting history however as it explores the economic and political implications of a burgeoning industry in a burgeoning world power and how the company was able to shift its work and design along with the times it becomes compelling and deeply interesting.  Combine this with the artful style of Manchester the work becomes a nonfiction work that can't be put down. <br /> <br />The book opens up explaining how the Krupp works began in Essen in the Rhine Valley, the lands that were so often contested by France and the German States. Then a provincial hamlet as Krupp went from stamping utensils to building larger implements the steelworks grew and eventually turned the place into an industrial center.  By the mid 19th century the \\"der Grosse Krupp\\" developed an inexpensive way to make steel which soon became an essential ingredient in European armies.  Naturally one of the most profitable items to make and sell in that century of battle after battle was cannon and other tools for war.  The cannon of the day were made from gun metal, a bronze like copper and tin allow, but Krupp having with his newly found Bessemer process steel was able to build cannons out of the stuff.  This is a revolutionary technology upgrade.  However several countries weren't willing to buy into it.  This of course resulted in an balance of military power which gave Prussia and Bavaria, who bough the cannon, easy victory over Austria at Konigratz in1866 and four years later gave the Prussian forces an enormous edge over the French.  Manchester suggests that the German Empire may have never formed with out such decisive victories brought about by this new technology.    <br /> <br />But the Krupp works weren't at this time a nationalistic firm and sold their cannon as export to several countries including the United States and Russia, two nations at the time desperately trying to measure up with their Western European counterparts.  This provides another interesting aspect to the work.   It shows how German economic expansion through importation was a sort of industrial colonialism that German industry required for expansion and even survival after unfettering itself from the guild system. It wasn't always that the German State's governments weren't buying but that they often weren't big enough as customers to keep competition alive.  <br /> <br />The latter half of this book is devoted to the Krupp works into the 20th Century, during these years the company armed Germany through two world wars and after world war two went on to remain an important German firm as it and the country as a whole rebuilt and redefined its character.  These chapters may be the most interesting and though as history goes is far more familiar to most readers.  Of course it is interesting to see the relationship between the German high commands of two very different Germanies and also what the firm did during the war reparations period between the world wars.  During the dark days of World War Two, Alfried Krupp took incredible license in use of prisoners for factory work.  As reprehensible as it was it was certainly the norm under the Nazi regime and though inhumane by our standards it was a very different time.  I imagine that many other captains of industry would also take such measures if given the license. <br />  <br />When the book was finished the firm had just become a public company after being family owned for centuries (currently the company has undergone a merger and operates as Thyssen Krupp).  This of course correlates well with the modern Germany that is both an ally in industry and democracy.  Overall this is a great history of business that is interesting on its own or as a work of German history.  It is always nice to read well written books on German history that don't revolve around Hitler, the SS or WWII. This is a must read for German historians, Business historians and fans of Manchester's work.   <br /> <br />-- Ted Murena <br />	2005-04-01
US	22620104	RNHMWM0SQDJ4I	0141390123	171993999	The Order of the Death's Head: The Story of Hitler's SS (Classic Military History)	Books	4	25	27	N	N	Among The Finest Histories of the Nazi Era	The \\"Order of the Death's Head\\" first published in 1965, was written while the dust had not yet settled on world war two and at 40 years of age Hoehne's work is a historical classic of the Nazi Period.  As with Albert Speer's \\"Inside the Third Reich\\" and Shirer's \\"The Rise and Fall of the Third Reich\\", this is one of those quintessential works of the period. Focusing on the rise and actions of the German SS, this book certainly does not glorify the SS or the Nazi party while providing a near exhaustive record.   The work, while still very useful is still quite flawed in its organization and is by no means complete.  The majority of the work focuses on the origins of the SS and the early Nazi party as well as later actions as a political entity and finally discusses the SS involvement with concentration camps. While discussed, the combat actions of the Waffen SS are but an aside to the greater focus of the work and many significant happenings within Nazi Germany are discussed quickly while others that may seem less significant are given substance.  This book is an excellent though incomplete resource that is well written and receives both benefit and disadvantage from the period in which it was written. <br /> <br />Building up the scene Hoehne discusses at great details the ideal and actions of the early Nazi Party and the formation of the Schutzstaffel (SS).  Filled with interesting detail and anecdote this is perhaps the richest portion of the work.  As the work progresses Hoehne discusses the interaction of the SS with the other part organizations including the SA the party itself and later the Wehrmacht, SD and Gestapo.  Here we see a central theme of Hoehne's work: The Power of the Nazi Party rested solely in Hitler and all of the party organizations were dependent on Hitler and a few of his staff.  Thus, the SS as pervasive as it had been, was always just one organization in an interdependent and often redundant network that comprised the political structure of Nazi Germany.  The work goes on with continuing sporadic detail to discuss the \\"night of the Long Knives\\" the Gestapo, Kristallnacht, The Early War/occupation of Eastern Europe and the Concentration Camps.  This last subject the author provides lucid descriptions and many grim and overwhelmingly bizarre instances. <br /> <br />This work is certainly among the most influential and resourceful works on the Third Reich.  Along with the other two books mentioned above, the average person can get a pretty good understanding of a most bizarre era of history. No one of these books is complete and certainly there are many things completely ignored in all three of these books.  The fact remains that \\"Order of the Death's Head\\" is still one of the finest and most complete books written about the SS.  It makes a great point of departure for studying the SS and will be a work that the historian will reference often. The book is also well researched and has a great bibliography.  Overall, I would recommend this book to college students and above and may want to be prefaced by a little basic 20th century German history if needed.  Otherwise this book is a good record however, casual readers be warned, the book may be confusing do to its lack of chronological ordering.  Considering that this book was written before the dust settled on the era and an historical consensus was just beginning to form on the Nazi Period, this is a very worth work that all interested parties ought to read. <br /> <br />-- Ted Murena <br />	2005-03-23
US	22620104	R1AELSCLX1HBBU	014044386X	741528612	Letters on England (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Letters on England: View into 18th Century English Culture	Letters on England is enlightening on several levels and a very interesting description of the society politics and science of England in the mid 18th century from a French point of view.  Voltaire being profoundly interested in all aspects of life and all types of knowledge provides an astounding account of sundry aspects of England from his patently Voltaire style.  He makes the book interesting by including his take on some of the peculiarities of English life.  Many of the letters are rather short and they need not be read in any particular sequence.  The style is strait forward and they are relatively objective for Voltaire's work.   I think these letters are indicative of Voltaire's style and provide a unique glimpse of many often overlooked aspects of English culture in the 18th century.  <br /> <br />He is particularly interested in the Quakers and devotes several of his letters entirely to their customs and beliefs.  Yes these letters are certainly interesting. For anyone studying religious toleration (or intolerance) in England these letters may be of certain value.   <br /> <br />My favorite and possibly the most endearing letters is the one devoted to Francis Bacon.  He alludes to the fact that Bacon was involved in an embezzlement scandal for which he was removed from office.  Of course this is certainly true but he, as many others have, forgives him for this since he has provided so much for mankind.  I feel that Voltaire saw much of the same in Bacon that he saw in himself.  We must remember that Voltaire too was a fantastic speculator (investor) and many accused him of possibly crossing into the realm of less than legal activities. <br /> <br />Voltaire's Letters on England are wonderful to read and after breezing through this book you will probably wish, as I have, that there were more to read.  That being said I will note that I believe that had anyone else written these letters (except for maybe Montaigne) they would be in some academic library but not published widely.  We can thank Voltaire for achieving the fame he did because having such immediate access to these letters is great for students historians and curious readers alike. <br /> <br />-- Ted Murena <br />	2005-03-11
US	22620104	R1HVPD4G2AZPW7	0140444491	894380493	Fear and Trembling (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Fear and Trembling in Copenhaagen: Philosphy Meets Faith	Still in Infinite Resignation:     Kierkegaard's most famous work \\"Fear and Trembling\\" is a book I have struggled with for my entire adult life.  I have found reading the work interesting but extrapolating the value of the argument is truly difficult.  It may be that I am attempting to read far too much into it but it seems to me that there is something deeper behind Kierkegaard's definition and deconstruction of faith. Using the example of Abraham and his son Isaac, whom God commands Abraham to kill, which is nearly universally known in the west as a parable for man's faith in God, Kierkegaard sets up his romantic argument of what is faith.  The work is well thought out but something piques my sense of absolute irony and tells me that maybe even the author isn't wholly convinced of his argument.    The work opens up with a very romantic episode after episode approach to Abraham's possible actions when hearing God commandment to kill his son in his honor.  If nothing else this breaks down the reader's inculcated acceptance for the Old Testament story.  If more it fills the reader with a true sense of awe for the struggle that Abraham had to face. Of course, the question of killing raises the ethical issue over murder which Kierkegaard thickens his argument with the Teleological Suspension of Ethics.  Yes, it is unethical to kill by the 10 commandments given by God, but is it ethical to perform God's will even if it goes against the Law and finally could God ever deny the laws he created (go against himself).   The final decision is a relatively logical argument in which he says that to act by God's direct will is grounds to suspend ethics and yes since god is infinite he can defy his own law.  Of course this wouldn't really hold up in modern courts but it does have an affect upon the reader.      So, dear friend Kierkegaard: how do we get faith? Shattering the Hegelian view that faith can be overcome by philosophy, Kierkegaard says that because faith cannot be attained intellectually all of the philosophical systems cannot transcend faith.  This of course makes getting faith a near impossibility which in words must stem from the idea of \\"infinite resignation\\" that event \\"a\\" cannot happen. To believe passionately that event \\"a\\" can happen though intellectually resigned to the fact that it can't is to have faith.  In spite of all of this I still don't understand how Kierkegaard says that faith can be inspired - instilled.     I will say that the Penguin Classics version is a great translation of the work and is certainly the version to buy.  Overall, I am not exactly sure how current the philosophical argument is but it is set up in a convincing way.  From a theological standpoint the book is certainly current and is a definite read for those interested in theology.  I really enjoy reading \\"Fear and Trembling\\" and yet, I can't wholly accept the author's arguments for faith. It seems to me that by dividing the mind into the passionate and the intellectual and diving groups of men into the Aesthetic, the religious and the ethical he is trapped under the weight of Aristotle.  All that said, this is a great work to explore and at least glean something of Kierkegaard's pensive religious style.  If you like this one go strait to \\"Sickness Unto Death\\".       -- Ted Murena	2005-03-10
US	22620104	R3EJPTZY0EXGF8	0060188707	655554658	Don Quixote	Books	5	8	9	N	N	First of its Form and Still Among The Best: A Must Read	Being considered the first modern novel, it is wonderful that Don Quixote has received the facelift and a return to the forefront that Edith Grossman's new translation brings.  My great friend's father as a professional actor considers the role of Don Quixote among his favorite and for this and the generally high regard for this book I had on many occasions attempted to read through this work.  I could see why this book was held in high regard through the years: it had modern characterization was romantic but not some total romantic flight of fancy like Ariosto's \\"Orlando Furioso\\".  This work is prose with some small bits of poetry. Grossman's translation is clear, concise and connected: It provides an excellent feeling of the twilight of Spain's domination and the even dimmer twilight of the knight.  What's more is that version has an easy to read in this version.  Without losing impact of expression the work is without grammatical and literary complications that earlier English translators seemingly felt compelled to include making their versions distant and difficult.  This is very readable and although long reading this book is no quixotic enterprise.<br /><br />Reading the work you will quickly get a feel for how influential of a work it is.  You will read in these pages hints of Voltaire, Gogol, Dostoyevsky and even Dickens.  Don Quixote is ripe with commentary humor and tragedy. As dynamic and unbelievable Cervantes' life was (read Will Durant's \\"The Age of Reason Begins\\" for an excellent and short summation of the author's life) so is the story.  What's excellent is that the story moves from place to place and coincidences occur but the contrivances of Shakespeare and his contemporaries' works.<br /><br />Given that this book is among the most important works of civilization you are doing yourself an injustice by not reading this one.  It is the first modern novel and still among the best.  Its parody is rich and commentary enlightening of human nature.  This is a must for the historian studying Europe yet speaks to something larger.  Don Quixote is an eternal story that will continue to influence and be read world-wide. Edith Grossman's version is the best I have encountered and is engaging accessible but most importantly enjoyable.<br /><br />-- Ted Murenas is a must for the historian studying Europe yet speaks to something larger.  Don Quixote is an eternal story that will continue to influence and be read world-wide. Edith Grossman's version is the best I have encountered and is engaging accessible but most importantly enjoyable.<br /><br />-- Ted Murena	2005-03-07
US	22620104	R1A4FVBSZ07FLU	1400060931	583114583	Goat: A Memoir	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Worth the time it takes to read. Goat is Gutteral	I will put my entire review in perspective my quickly mentioning that \\"Goat\\" can be read in a single evening even by a moderate reader.  \\"Goat\\" gives a raw gritty portrayal <br />Of life as a young collegiate trying to \\"fit in\\".  Pledging to a fraternity is a course of events that causes the \\"rusher\\" to call into question much and often is a defining moment in adult development.  Brad Land, the author, who's style is straight forward and uncompromisingly youthful at times engages the reader in what can honestly be said as a series of events that aren't worth reading.  However, put in the condensed and easy to read format in which the author provides this work it is interesting.  It took me a little over two hours to pound through this one and I really thought the \\"memoir\\" was well developed and perfect for the audience (which I see as late high-school to 20-somethings) I especially related to Lands inability to get help or sympathy from the police. This book is worth the time it takes read and will stick with you like some ordeal that a friend just divulged to you. It is bound and printed beautifully in its hard-cover version. <br /> <br />--Ted Murena  <br />	2005-03-06
US	22620104	R3V494PY3UGH22	0571207391	377684895	Touching from a Distance: Ian Curtis & Joy Division	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Closest Perspective to a man in Isolation	\\"Touching from a Distance\\" is an interesting book written from the most intimate persective possible.  Ian Curtis is held in a very high regard by his fans and some strange mythology has evolved around him.  He is often viewed as someone who was above human nature and above his fellow artists. His anti-glamorous appearance and epilepsy as seem to have given hima light of meek innocence by his most subjective of historians, his die-hard fanbase.  I am a die hard Joy Division fan but I am in no way surprised by the violent controlling behavior of Ian Curtis as described in this book.  So I guess he was (and is) toching from a distance but up close he was a troubled individual.  While I am sure that that Deborah Curtiss, is still working out the trauma of a relationship that ended abruptly 25 years ago I certainly don't think the story is exaggerated.  I found it amazing that even though she allowed him to follow his ambitions, she wanted to remain a normal family and did not become a \\"rocker wife\\". This book is a fine and interesting look into the life of a troubled soul and how fame was the catalyst for his final decision.  I recommend the work highly and it is a must read for JD fans as well as anyone who is trying to figure out the Artist-Suicide connection.  I thought Repeatedly about Sylvia Plath, Elliot Smith and, of course, Kurt Cobain while reading it.    I Found a couple things particularly interesting about the book and the first one is that Mrs. Curtis repeatedly blames Ian Curtis' behavior on managers, band mates and record execs who want to exploit or simply influence him.  I couldn't tell if this was some sort of strange apology for his behavior or simply that she loved him too much to see reality as many abuse victims do.  In reality there should be no excuse for his bahavior but admitedly Curtis was a visionary who really worked toward his singular goal of making music.  From reading this work and reading between the lines I get a feeling that he was emotionally despondent and all together unsympathetic as a man and even had his managers not pushed him toward it, he would have certainly still not been the family man Mrs. Curtis wanted him to be.  I am sure that he had emotions of love, I have heard his music, I think the problem was in the expression.  Interestingly my struggle with Deborah's portrayal of her husband didn't get in the way my apreciation for how she portrayed him tenderly even while she described his affair.      Another thing required for discussion is Curtis's alleged right wing affiliations.  The Author and his wife explains his (...) fascinations and his love of order and organization but any definite (...) relation is only alluded to requiring a cognitive leap to make the connection.  By this logic Michael Jackson too should be a die hard (...)  Many artists and thinkers who grew up in the wake of WWII were deeply affected by the tumult of the war and what facist governments were.  By writing songs such as \\"They walked in a Line\\" Curtis is not describing his fascist lust but simple interest in the goings on of  the 20th century's most important event.      I am getting completely off subject and returning to the book I will sum it up by saying that it certainly must take courage to pen such a work.  I am glad that Mrs. Curtis wrote it and am actually smitten by her lucid style and the way she knew how to highlight the important stuff, not dwell on dull and sad things and make there relationship seem loving even during the worst moments was amazing.  In a relationship that seemed like a drawn-out practical joke the punch line of which being a dead husband in the kitchen this book is not sarcastic or gloomy.  It is important that we do our best to understand why suicide occurs and my conjecture is that it would have happened to Ian Curtis regardless of his fame.  I recommend this book highly: It is a quick read and well written.  JD Fans need to read this one.           Ted Murena	2005-03-01
US	22620104	R22GH86C9BXY27	0385092601	283545394	The Old Regime and the French Revolution	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Enlightening Work on several Levels	Alexis De Tocqueville's work \\"The Old Regime and the French Revolution\\" marked the foundation of the prevailing historical argument of the causes of the French Revolution and is by far one of the most interesting and influential works on the subject.  This being said de Tocque Ville's argument was certainly influenced by the events in Europe during his lifetime: mainly the increased centralization of political power in Germany and Europe at large and the revolutions of 1831 and 1848.  In historiographical terms this book was written relatively soon after the event itself and it is certain that de Tocqueville conversed and interacted with people who were directly involved in the events of the revolution.  This is both a bane and a boon to the value of the work since such direct influence would certainly obscure the objectively of hid ideas even though being able to gather data before the \\"dust has settled\\" is always advantageous.  I certainly believe this book is deserving of five stars and on many levels.  It is a great historical record and wonderful example of mid 19th century historiography sociology and political thought. <br /> <br />The idea that political centralization caused the downfall of the old regime in 18th Century France is taken for granted by most historians and political thinks now.  While we learn early on that it was because of the excess of the Bourbon dynasty from Louis XIV's wars and building Projects to Louis XVI's Court etc, de Tocqueville blames centralization of power; the foundation of the nation state on the revolution.  Thus, all nations by this idea will face revolution and ultimately democracy.  <br /> <br />This book is an interesting read and when put into the proper perspective has a lot to offer.  I found this book more profound and less idealistic than \\"Democracy in America\\".  This is a great source and example of 19th century historiography and when read in the proper light offers an interesting and very plausible argument forthe cause of the French Revolution.  It also provides an interesting analysis of political philosophy thought de Tocqueville categorically discounts most of the famous thinkers in this field.  If you have to read this work in part or whole for school do yourself a favor and read it thoroughly. If you are reading it for your own benefit I trust you will do the same.  Either way  \\"The Old Regime and the French Revolution\\" has a lot to offer and is a worthwhile read. <br /> <br /> <br />-- Ted Murena	2005-02-25
US	22620104	R2GMN3NXDCXV4I	0946719403	347995236	England's Hidden Reverse: Coil-Current 93-Nurse With Wound	Books	5	7	10	N	N	The God's Got Three Faces yet the Childs Got no Name	Nurse With Wound, Coil and Current 93 are musically manifestation of the same creative force.  They are interdependent and each compliments the others.  David Keenen describes this connection beautifully in this work.  It begins by describing the musical scene out of which the bands all took their shape.  In the strange days of the early eighties the post punk musical world was really going into several directions: oblivious pop, new wave pretension, industrial and Goth and finally bands like Current 93 Coil and NWW.  These sounded more similar in there early days than they do now but still have the same vibe.  What's most interesting about them is that they keep artistic focus and this book tells this story in a beautifully bound form. <br /> <br />The book uses a lot of quotes and pictures to tell the story of these bands using information from collaborators of the bands.  It is very well researched and while many have said it reads like journalism it seems more like academia to me.  The style is great and with so little actual documentation to work with quotes are one of the few viable options. It is really interesting to peer into the lives of these individuals and sometimes it is stranger than fiction: Tibet Balance Stapleton and Christofersen lead bizarre lives. This is a part of why they make such interesting work.  It would have been more interesting to me if there was more said about the specific influences of the artists and the works.  While we can infer much there could certainly be more here.  Nevertheless what is written in this book is very enlightening to me.  We as fans of the work often dissociate Coil and John Balance as a distant cousin to c93 and NWW but reading this really put the perspective in order.  This book puts the artists in perspective so that even a non fan would find it interesting.   <br /> <br />Overall I really appreciated reading this book. Being a huge fan of these bands I would be happy with anything and have often been placated by reading incomplete web pages and bad 'zine articles.  This book is far better than that and really makes me appreciate the music all the more.  It is by no means definitive and is missing many other bands (most notably Death In June).  But I guess the book would loose focus if it were to contain more bands. This is a book that you will love to have and read again and again.   Being fans of musicians that the mainstream media doesn't care about or cant understand we are thrilled to see stuff like this. <br /> <br /> -- Ted Murena	2005-02-25
US	22620104	RD73BDT5NIGQH	0946719675	347995236	England's Hidden Reverse: A Secret History of the Esoteric Underground	Books	5	12	14	N	N	The God's Got Three Faces and The Child's Got No Name	Nurse With Wound, Coil and Current 93 are musically manifestation of the same creative force.  They are interdependent and each compliments the others.  David Keenen describes this connection beautifully in this work.  It begins by describing the musical scene out of which the bands all took their shape.  In the strange days of the early eighties the post punk musical world was really going into several directions: oblivious pop, new wave pretension, industrial and Goth and finally bands like Current 93 Coil and NWW.  These sounded more similar in there early days than they do now but still have the same vibe.  What's most interesting about them is that they keep artistic focus and this book tells this story in a beautifully bound form. <br /> <br />The book uses a lot of quotes and pictures to tell the story of these bands using information from collaborators of the bands.  It is very well researched and while many have said it reads like journalism it seems more like academia to me.  The style is great and with so little actual documentation to work with quotes are one of the few viable options. It is really interesting to peer into the lives of these individuals and sometimes it is stranger than fiction: Tibet Balance Stapleton and Christofersen lead bizarre lives. This is a part of why they make such interesting work.  It would have been more interesting to me if there was more said about the specific influences of the artists and the works.  While we can infer much there could certainly be more here.  Nevertheless what is written in this book is very enlightening to me.  We as fans of the work often dissociate Coil and John Balance as a distant cousin to c93 and NWW but reading this really put the perspective in order.  This book puts the artists in perspective so that even a non fan would find it interesting.   <br /> <br />Overall I really appreciated reading this book. Being a huge fan of these bands I would be happy with anything and have often been placated by reading incomplete web pages and bad 'zine articles.  This book is far better than that and really makes me appreciate the music all the more.  It is by no means definitive and is missing many other bands (most notably Death In June).  But I guess the book would loose focus if it were to contain more bands. This is a book that you will love to have and read again and again.   Being fans of musicians that the mainstream media doesn't care about or cant understand we are thrilled to see stuff like this. <br /> <br />This is a Reprint of the Original... Lower Cost Same great material <br /> <br /> -- Ted Murena	2005-02-25
US	22620104	R3TSNLV86JG4P7	0963420526	901748936	The Unabomber Manifesto: Industrial Society & Its Future	Books	5	3	12	N	N	Philosophy for the Parnoid.  Manifest Lunacy	Ted Kaczynski's Unabomber Manifesto is one of the most bizarre and intriguing documents of modern times.  From the apex of achievement and genius Kaczynski generated into the  personification of paranoia and this manuscript, complete and unedited with spelling errors to boot, is the result of his time in isolation.   Written in a fast and furious style that is akin to the rantings of Brad Pitt's character in the film \\"12 Monkeys\\", it is nearly impossible to take the argument seriously.  However style makes the work all thmore interesting upon reflection.   Anyone who wishes to make sense of why the Unabomber terrorized America must read this book and overall it is an impressive piece of outsider work. <br /> <br />The book is extraordinarily interesting from a psychological and sociological point of view and also from a philosophical point of view.  It purposes that our modern times take personal power away from mankind and that this is the root of our frustration.  Based on something of a distorted Malthusian view, \\"FC\\", as Kaczynski calls himself, describes a world that is bound for doom in its current place and outlines why undoing the industrial revolution is required for the survival of mankind.  He also supports an idea he refers to as \\"The Power Process\\" in which he states the we can only feel satisfied when we can perform an action from start to finish.  This doesn't mean writing a book for instance.  It means felling a tree, making paper, making ink, writing the book, distributing the book etc. <br /> <br />While the philosophy behind his arguments is clearly insane it poses questions that are somewhat valid.  He asks: what is the purpose of technological innovation and can man be happy in world where he is so dependent on others.  These questions are worth exploring though his answers both in writing and in practice are despicable.  This booklet provides an interesting glimpse into a psychotic mind and is  valuable on many levels though the arguments certainly cant to be taken seriously.   <br /> <br />Ted Murena	2005-02-22
US	22620104	R1MIJZSVR8DX38	0451526015	317139448	The Picture of Dorian Gray and Other Short Stories (Signet Classics)	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Picture is an Aesthetic Masterpiece	Oscar Wilde as leader of the literary wing of the Aesthetic Movement is by most accounts among the most bohemian of the Victorian English writers.  Just looking at pictures taken of him reveals his fascination if not preoccupation with the beautiful and luxurious.  Reading any work of his we quickly become privy of his style which strives for beauty and quality grammar.  His themes revolve around the lives of the well off in the late 19th century and the \\"Picture of Dorian Grey\\" is a prime example of Wilde's Work.  It is a full-bodied novel that fully takes itself seriously and builds up to a great climax.  The plot is relatively simple and while it gives itself away quite early we read on, luxuriating in the beautiful prose and excitement about what's to come.  The theme of eternal youth is something we can all relate to and in this world of extreme make over and botox it is a very relevant theme<br /><br />The book reads quickly and Wilde doesn't waste the readers time developing scenes even though some description approach the extreme.  And though Wilde tends to be more philosophical in this work than in others, it fits the story and is not ruinous to the overall effect.  This book is a necessary stop along the tour of 19th century English literature and it is a wonderful one.  If you enjoy it I recommend you check out some of his short stories: they are quick and some are very good.  I recommend this version since it is inexpensive and holds up quite well (I am destructive to books).<br /><br />Ted Murena	2005-02-18
US	22620104	R336RITNDEUZHB	0140444564	247198618	The House of the Dead (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Great Work: Interesting and Educational	Reading the House of the Dead is essential to understanding Dostoyevsky.  While his novels are far more elaborate and well developed in a literary sense, this book is important because it is based on his actual experience.  It does contain the seed of philosophy and analysis of human nature that drives much of his other works and this is written in a manifest manner. This book is relatively plot less but the characters and scenes are well developed and often it strikes awe in the reader. Being so easy to read, straight forward, and all together interesting I suggest this book highly to those who want an introduction to Dostoyevsky.       We have to remember a few things when reading this book.  It is probably true that upon original release that Dostoyevsky did not want to use his own name in the book and he also wanted to make the book readable to his public.   What's more is we have to realize the time and place.  Russia was still basically feudal during the 1850's and nobility were treated far differently than peasant classes.  Understanding this brings a whole new dimension to this work.  Dostoyevsky, it seems, tries to show how most of the criminals behave like some bizarre mirror of Russian society.  And of course the theme of adaptation is developed throughout.    This is one of the more important Dostoyevsky works.  It is important to understand both the person and the thinker that Dostoyevsky was.  It also is a great background on the time and place of Russia, the setting of most of his work.  Beyond this it presents some interesting ideas and is certainly an interesting record of prison life in the 19th century.  I can understand why many would say that this is not one of his best works and on many point I certainly agree.  However, this book is still very compelling and absolutely interesting.  Given that reading this is not a massive investment of time that his novels generally are this is a certain must read. I rate this book highly and if you give it achance I surmise you will too.    -- Ted Murena	2005-02-16
US	22620104	R1QNBVP3K8XRB6	1551115158	579998156	The Coming Race - Encore Edition	Books	4	26	27	N	N	Great Early Science Fiction: A Fast Fun Read	The Coming Race is a great book on many levels.  As a story it is well developed and is one of Bulwer-Lytton's best works of science fiction.  Also from a historical aspect it is an interesting document to see how the Victorian mind saw the world and what was beyond their horizons.  This book had an incredible impact upon the reading public upon its release in 1871 and its influence, as well as that of Lytton in general, is felt greatly in later works of early sci-fi.  I especially feel the stylistic influence in Upton Sinclair's \\"Millennium\\" and while for a review this is neither here nor there, this is important in understanding the development of the genre.  <br /> <br />The book opens up with the main character, an American, being invited into a mine exploration by friend. Within just a few pages of the most basic exposition the story begins.  For this genre and being that the terranean characters matter little, jumping into the plot like this makes the reading fun.  For a 19th century it reads very fast and before long the reader will be well acquainted with the ways of the vril-ya and \\"vril\\" - the power source of the coming race.  It really is a fun read. <br /> <br />The only problem with this book is that while Lytton goes through an enormity of steps to describe the culture and idiosyncrasies of the vril-ya the book at times reads more like notes of an anthropologist than a literary novel.  Of course this may be the intention and since it is such a quick and enjoyable read, we can forgive the author of this.  If you are fan of Lord Lytton or a fan of early Sci-Fi this is a definite read.  I also would recommend this book to anyone who like 19th century novels and think this should be included in more high school English literature classes because it does not fit the stereotype and would be a welcome break for many students.  While we know quite well that this work is purely fantastical it is really enjoyable to see how the mind of the 19th century saw the possibility of worlds going on underground and it is fun to imagine and believe... <br /> <br />-- Ted Murena	2005-02-15
US	22620104	R2FNZ7X9FBV3W4	0766101053	598411734	Vril: The Power of the Coming Race	Books	4	10	13	N	N	Comming Race is a Fun Read	The Coming Race is a great book on many levels.  As a story it is well developed and is one of Bulwer-Lytton's best works of science fiction.  Also from a historical aspect it is an interesting document to see how the Victorian mind saw the world and what was beyond their horizons.  This book had an incredible impact upon the reading public upon its release in 1871 and its influence, as well as that of Lytton in general, is felt greatly in later works of early sci-fi.  I especially feel the stylistic influence in Upton Sinclair's \\"Millennium\\" and while for a review this is neither here nor there, this is important in understanding the development of the genre.<br /><br />The book opens up with the main character, an American, being invited into a mine exploration by friend. Within just a few pages of the most basic exposition the story begins.  For this genre and being that the terranean characters matter little, jumping into the plot like this makes the reading fun.  For a 19th century it reads very fast and before long the reader will be well acquainted with the ways of the vril-ya and \\"vril\\" - the power source of the coming race.  It really is a fun read.<br /><br />The only problem with this book is that while Lytton goes through an enormity of steps to describe the culture and idiosyncrasies of the vril-ya the book at times reads more like notes of an anthropologist than a literary novel.  Of course this may be the intention and since it is such a quick and enjoyable read, we can forgive the author of this.  If you are fan of Lord Lytton or a fan of early Sci-Fi this is a definite read.  I also would recommend this book to anyone who like 19th century novels and think this should be included in more high school English literature classes because it does not fit the stereotype and would be a welcome break for many students.  While we know quite well that this work is purely fantastical it is really enjoyable to see how the mind of the 19th century saw the possibility of worlds going on underground and it is fun to imagine and believe...<br /><br />-- Ted Murenaossibility of worlds going on underground and it is fun to imagine and believe... <br /> <br />-- Ted Murena	2005-02-15
US	22620104	R39ZZ4M6SEQL3D	0465086438	393853687	Le Ton Beau De Marot: In Praise of The Music of Language	Books	4	7	10	N	N	A Fun Read For The Well Read	This book's beauty lies not in the translations themselves but in the artfulness that they are described and the literary genius used by Hofstadter to write this book.  It is loaded with puns, double entendres, allusion and literary devices.  Saying that may make the book sound dense and imposing but this is certainly not so.  It is penned in a lighthearted, humorous and yet academic style which, to the well read, will be an enjoyable romp through art, history, and literature.  It is a highly cultured work from a highly cultured man.  This book is not nearly as heavy as \\"Gdel, Escher Bach\\" but it is profound.  Hofstadter throws conventional thought through a window, as he takes free association and stream of consciousness and uses it reasonably well to make his points. <br /> <br />Critics of Hofstadter may say that he loses the reader in his style and abundant allusions but it is part of the fun.  He realizes that he cant translate Marot perfectly but is imaginative and adept at making the poems sound more alive.  I am not a good speaker of French and for me to read Marot in its native tongue is impossible.  This book makes it possible, and more so breathes new life into poems that were once stogy.  Hofstadter also makes it easier to put oneself in the mindset of Marot through his wonderful descriptions.  This is a book you can pick up put down and return to later. This is a really fun book to read even if you are not a fan of poetry and if you are a fan of trivia this is a must read.      <br /> <br />-- Ted Murena <br />	2005-02-14
US	22620104	R2QOZJNVQLKZMP	0805210555	920707464	Franz Kafka: The Complete Stories	Books	5	10	14	N	N	The Best Kafka Shorts Collection Available	With a great introduction by John Updike, this is the best Kafka short story compilation I have found to date.  I have read a lot of Kafka and believe that his shorts include some of his best work.  This version presents some of the cleanest translations I have encountered and I think that with them we receive a much more approachable translation.  For and introduction to Kafka this book is a great point of departure and for the Kafka fan, both new and seasoned this is a great book to own.   <br /> <br />Including the famous Kafka shorts like the \\"Metamorphosis\\", \\"the Penal Colony\\" and \\"the Judgment\\" this book also contains some very short works that I would say are more indicative of his style including  \\"Conversations With a Drunk\\" and \\"Conversations With a Worshipper\\".  Some of these stories are so short that they barely span half of a written page and while they are arguably too short I suggest reading them first.  Though some might read like a sucker punch by beginning and ending before you realize what occurred, these works will elucidate Kafka's style quicker than the longer shorts.  If \\"The Trial\\" of \\"Amerika\\" is required reading (for students) or even if you have to read \\" <br />The Metamorphosis\\" take some time and read some of these very short stories first, not only will you have a far better command of Kafka's style but you will sound more intelligent in your classroom discussions and your literary analysis when you refer to other works by the author.  For the pleasure reader set you can follow this same advice as spending mere moments to read these works will only enrich the experience of reading Kafka's Larger works. <br /> <br />Saving Literary analysis for another forum, I will go straight to the point of recommending this set of stories as the finest example of a Kafka shorts collection. Anyone who knows me well will know that I find the short story to be among the most enjoyable literary forms and that I have read more than my share of Kafka.  This collection not only provides the most stories but presents them in a well thought out manner by including the very short stories in a section of their own.  Since, undoubtedly, you will be reading this book often it is good to know that this a sturdy paperback that will sustain a great deal of abuse.  I recommend that even if you don't buy this version read the stories, however if you are in the market for a Kafka short collection this is the one to buy. At a little over ten dollars you can't go wrong... Enjoy! <br /> <br />-- Ted Murena	2005-02-07
US	22620104	RO5JS2FB48Z9D	0140441921	301772964	The Book of the Courtier (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	21	23	N	N	Enlightening look into Renaisance  Society	Castiglione's \\"Courtier\\" is one of many books outlining protocol and proper behavior of the sophisticated elite.  It might suffice to say that he was in some way the Emily Post of his era however, it seems that this work was more far reaching than this. The Courtier is a fascinating book that is actually more useful in studying the renaissance than Machiavelli's \\"The Prince\\" (which I  do recommend as well) since its detail on why people should act as proscribed is directly taken from real events and people and it is less a work of philosophy and more a work centered about real action in living.  I recommend this work highly to everyone wishing to learn more about this age.  This version is far better than the one I first read and it offers decent commentary to help elucidate the reader. <br /> <br />Castiglione was extraordinarily fond of Federigo the duke of Urbino with whom he fictitiously converses in this work.  I am inclined to believe, though possibly naively, that the fictitious conversations outlined in this work, though not actual, may have been a summation of actual conversations that Castiglione and Federigo actually had.  We should remember that Federigo was a model duke and Urbino was the model court of renaissance Italy.  Federigo was a lover of learning and the arts and an able ruler willing to give audience to any of his subjects.  He also was a more than able military commander who was just in to his men and equally just to those whom he fought against.  In short he was the finest example of a renaissance prince.  Urbino, though far smaller than Florence, Venice, Genoa or Rome was a very well organized and lovely court that was a favorite place, not only for Castiglione, but also for many artists including Leonardo Da Vinci.  Putting all of this in context it is understandable why it made sense for Castiglione to use Federigo as his model in writing this book and it also explains one reason why it was such an immediate success among all of the Italian nobility.  Naturally they read it for different reasons than you will but this book had lasting appeal and should be regarded as a classic work. <br /> <br />One reason this book is so interesting is that it is the outline of protocol for courtiers of the Italian Renaissance.  Pondering this one might ask the question \\"why did Castiglione feel he had to write this work?\\" I can assure you his aims were quite different from those of the handbag maven Kate Spade who has recently issued a series of books along the same vein as The Courtier for today's yuppie elite and their \\"wannabee\\" counterparts.   I surmise simply that this book needed to be written because their was an essential break in culture of the nobles of the Renaissance and those of the Middle Ages.  However this break was by no means sudden and the crudeness and bad manners of the Middle ages did not die quickly especially among the rural nobility.  Even so Castiglione saw a benefit from everyone \\"working off of the same page\\" and  thus he wrote that page. <br /> <br />If you are studying the Renaissance it is probable that you will read some short excerpt of this book.  While enlightening as that small cut may be it pales in comparison to the entire work.   Sociologists, historians, scholars, and interested people will all get something out of reading this book.  It is not imposing and dry as it may appear.  Though the language may be dense at times Castiglione is kind to his readers by making the work enjoyable and easy to read.  Modeling the work after conversations naturally lightens the work and it really is not that long of a work anyway.  I rate this version as the best I have seen and think that you will do a great service to yourself in reading this. <br /> <br />-- Ted Murena	2005-02-07
US	22620104	R1DUTDMVXXJOBU	B00005WD4E	552115714	The Mansions of Philosophy: A Survey of Human Life and Destiny	Books	5	15	16	N	N	If you cant Buy the Mansion at Least Have a View	The reason I say if you cant buy the mansion at least have a view is that this book is out of print and really difficult to find.  Will Durant re-edited this book as the \\"Story of Philosophy\\" turning it into more a history and something that could go along with his \\"Story of Civilization\\" series. This book originally published in 1929 is a far different book than the later edition.  This book is a very lucid and organized book explaining philosophical questions.  The book explains how philosophers through the ages handled these problems but is organized not by chronology but by questions. <br /> <br />IT is hard for us after Durant has offered the world such great history to remember that he aimed originally to be a philosopher.  Reading this book brings us back to that fold and in reading it one can easily picture our young and yet very well informed Durant writing this book with alacrity and humor.  His style is conversational, and full with out being ostentatious or verbose.   <br /> <br />IT is a shame that this book hasn't been reprinted since it would make a great work for the introduction to philosophy for students and the reading public alike.  Unfortunately, if you want this book you are going to have to hunt for it.  I suspect that if you are reading this you are looking specifically for it.  If this be the case buy a copy if it is available.  If one is not available keep searching you will be rewarded when you stumble upon it...   <br /> <br />-- Ted Murena	2005-02-04
US	22620104	R134LZYECV69HH	0679726101	169597856	Citizens: A Chronicle of the French Revolution	Books	4	79	82	N	N	If you read one book about the French Revolution...	Citizens is a very well written history of the French Revolution covering a massive amount of events, details and personalities with a good deal of background to boot.  I am no expert on the subject but I have read a few books on the French Revolution including \\"The Oxford history of the French Revolution\\" and \\"Twelve who Ruled\\".  I found that Citizens at succeeded where the other two failed: it managed to remain interesting.  This is of course is because of Simon Schama writing style.  The history of the French revolutionary period of course really is fascinating but the problem with it is unless you are scholar of French history you will need to have a decent amount of background to put the events of 1789-95 in perspective.  That being said it can also be said that if you are going to read a single book on the subject Citizens provides the background and explanation required to get a true sense of what happened during the revolutionary period. <br /> <br />It is understandable that readers find that there is too much anecdote and detail in this book however I argue that it is all for a purpose.  Simon Schama is one of those writers that doesn't simply want to provide readers with the chronology but he wants to enrich the events with information and  details that not only shed light on what happened but provide a volume of supplemental knowledge that in pieces may do little but together solidify the reader's understanding of the subject.  This is vastly important to getting a grasp on this book.  I believe Schama uses anecdotes not as flourishes but as mnemonic devices for the readers understanding as well.  <br /> <br />It is not meant to be a quick read.  Citizens is very deliberate.  Schama's verbose style is also this works beauty.  Anyone who has seen him speak or seen his television programs understands that he wants to envelop his audience completely not only as way of maintaining their attention but as a service for their time spent.  As a reader too, we spend time behind a book for a purpose: to learn.  Schama understands this and furnishes us with enough information that we don't need to waste our time sifting through other books to gain understanding of this of the material. <br /> <br />Finally, to discuss the argument.  Schama provides a good counter to the argument that the revolution was a people's movement.  Naturally, you need power to take power, argues Schama, the revolution was not a movement of the people but the middle class who cared little for the proletariat.  They certainly used them when necessary but not out of altruism but to achieve their aims.  This accounts greatly for much  of the horror of the period.  <br /> <br />Of course it is not complete.  Schama, or any worthy author of history, wouldn't ever make this claim.   However it is a very good starting point for all readers of history and good basis to start studying more specific aspects of the period.  I recommend Schama greatly because of his style.  If you have enjoyed his other works you certainly will be pleased and if you are looking for a strong book to start understanding the revolution this is an excellent book for you. <br /> <br />--Ted Murena	2005-02-04
US	22620104	R394YMWBH4C813	0393963047	475863656	The Foundations of Early Modern Europe, 1460-1559 (Second Edition)  (The Norton History of Modern Europe)	Books	4	9	12	N	N	Excellent in Scope and understaning: Great Indroduction	Eugene Rice has summed up the age of reformation very well in this book.  It is very readable and quite scholarly considering the broad scope of time and place the author covers in this work.  This work provides a great introduction to the subject in a couple hundred pages of relatively easy reading.  Before reading deep into Luther or Charles V, begin to read primary sources of the age, or even read fiction like Dan Brown's \\"Davinci Code\\", it makes sense to get some introductory material.  This book covers that subject well. <br /> <br />Taking the period from all angles, Rice describes lifestyles of all economic strata while also explaining the cultural shifts of Humanism and the rise of the early modern state.  He also explains in great clarity the factors that brought reformation about.  I appreciate the fact that he also discusses other protestants and why they did not stick tightly to Luther's views.  Further, Rice organizes this book in a way that makes it very accessible to someone who doesn't want to read the work from cover to cover. <br /> <br />Overall this is really an excellent work that I recommend highly to all students and to anyone who wants to learn about our past.  The books provides a great read without oversimplifying issues like William Manchester's \\"A World Lit Only B Fire\\".  I think after reading you will agree this book opens the door and sheds light on the early modern era nicely.  <br /> <br />-- Ted Murena	2005-02-04
US	22620104	R381TA31M9PK3J	B0007F8NT8	340882747	The haunted mind;: A psychoanalyst looks at the supernatural	Books	4	6	6	N	N	A Skeptic's view of the Supernatural done Well	Nanador Fodor is an interesting person.  He was a Hungarian born in 1895 who came to America.  He was able at one point to interview Sir Arthur Conan Doyle and through his relationship with Hereward Carrington (author of 1919's \\"Modern Psychic Phenomena\\") that Fodor took a great interests in the psychical.  He wrote in 1934 \\"Encyclopaedia of Psychic Science\\" but later in life seems to have become disillusioned with the psychic world and he is among the first to believe that psychic phenomena and poltergeists are projections of living people's minds. <br />The Haunted Mind investigates this idea with a lucid alacrity that makes this strange subject relatively easy to understand.  Among the investigations is the Famous \\"Ash Manor Ghost\\" which as it turns out was able to manifest itself through abnormal sexual relationships within the family.  Naturally, this idea was far ahead of its time in the 1930's when the research was done.   <br />Interestingly it is hard to say how Fodor truly felt about his subject matter.  He presents the facts of his investigations in this book but is restrained in his presentation of results.  He uses the psychological argument as the most plausible but isn't arguing for it completely. Contemporary research still moves in this vein.  It seems he wanted to believe but wanted scientific proof and not emotion driving his belief. <br />This argument aside \\"The Haunted Mind\\" is an interesting book in its investigation as it provides great detail and background of each case. Like many other \\"ghost hunters\\" he is hesitant to draw any conclusions but provides a good deal of data and some possible explanations.  This is a great book for people who are interested in the paranormal as well as students of psychology.  While it is out of print you may be able to find it in a library.  Read it and make your own decision. <br />--Ted Murena <br />	2005-02-03
US	22620104	R30X7DYU4J4PO8	0671201581	635633775	A History of Western Philosophy	Books	5	14	16	N	N	A Great Work for Research and Philosophy	Bertrand Russell's history of western philosophy makes a great reference work to philosophers and philosophy at large.  Naturally Russell, being a philosopher less than a historian, he is critical of the thinkers he canvasses throughout the work.  That being said, the history really is great. Russell, being the positivist, isn't too critical on the great thinkers of less enlightened times.  Understanding that Russell's views don't discount the philosophies but provide an argument to them, we can use this work as a great reference to philosophy without a great investment of time.  <br /> <br />This is the real beauty of the work: it makes a great reference work.  If you don't feel like reading the entire thing (which I do suggest) you can use the work in piecemeal. This book provides basic understanding of the tenets of a philosopher while also provide a quick background of the life and times of the philosopher.  I have used this book on several occasions to cross reference ideas and re-acquaint myself with the philosophers. <br /> <br />Russell, in writing this book, chose to be concise and this can be seen as a drawback.  His descriptions of philosophers and philosophies are by no means complete but they are in the short space he uses filled with information and anecdotes.  Naturally he weights the time he spends towards the more important philosophers: he gives a vast section to St Augustine while we spends a scant page and a half on William of Ockham. This makes sense of course and the data he provides on the obscure is certainly enough to wet the mouth so to speak and allow the reader to do some research on his own -- you will have no trouble doing this because the research is well document through a great bibliography. <br /> <br />A major complaint I have seen in regards to this book is that it covers little of the 20th century.  I can see why this can be seen as a defect but we must remember that Russell was writing a history and not a field guide.  At the time this was first written and even in the times later additions could have been produced the philosophies of existentialism and postmodern relativism etc were still at the forefront of the philosophical debate (in the present) and writing a history on this probably seem absurd. <br /> <br />While Russell himself was apologetic about the way he handled this book in making it less than complete, we should praise him for creating it.  Overall it is an excellent work and handled with the command of subject and history that is most rare especially in our times.  I wont say that this is the only history of philosophy you should read but it may well be the best.  I implore students of philosophy and students of history to get and use this book.  If you do not fit into those categories get this book anyway... you will find it not dry but delightful. <br /> <br />-- Ted Murena	2005-02-01
US	22620104	R1TTOKBEUT6BI5	1564590003	832578188	Strange Story and the Haunted and the Haunters	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Lytton At his Best: Reading for Dark Stormy Nights	Bulwer Lytton was a celebrated writer of Victorian England yet today unlike Dickens (for example) he has faded to less prominance.  I think this is due to books like \\"The last Days of Pompeii\\" which were well regarded in their day but currently are inaccessible to the modern reader due to verbose language descriptions that obscure the plot.  However Lytton wasn't always writing in this style and for the post-modern reader \\"A Strange Story\\" is a great and epic book that is full of fantasy and romance.  It is filled with the captivating gothic style that one might expect from an occult novel yet doesn't insult the intelligence of the reader like many hooror/occult books tend to do. <br /> <br />The story starts out when a young doctor moves to an unamed town in England and he aquanting himself with society.  Simultaneous of this a strange vivacious man also has arrived to the area.  The whole town is \\"abuzz\\" about this man who seems downright other-worldly and the doctor soon befriends him yet is very mistrustful of him...  The plot thickens and of course there is a woman that gets in between the two.  You will have to read on... <br /> <br />So buy this book and wait for that dark and stormy night... If you are fan of Harry Potter, a fan of English Literature or just looking for something different this book has a lot to offer and isnt too difficult to read.  Enjoy this one	2005-01-31
US	22620104	R384E1PCXDTC4S	0195019563	589844672	The Struggle for Stability in Early Modern Europe	Books	4	12	12	N	N	You Won't Struggle With this one: Read and Learn!	I think as historians and thinkers at large we are so used to seeing the transition from the middle ages as a natural thing that was bound to happen.  However, when really focusing on the early modern era, it is readily apparent that the change from the religious to the secular and the change of small powers to larger powers -- even the centralization and growth in power of the church was not natural in its progress and was filled with conflict.  Theodore K. Rabb in this book and others explores the confusion of those years of profound change that the early modern era was.  His insights are original and Rabb has a knack for humanizing the struggle of the worldly over spiritual.  Overall this book is very scholarly and I recommend this book to the undergraduate looking to canvas an era, as a decent secondary source for research, and (most importantly) a great book for the casual reader who wants to learn about the early modern era.   <br /> <br />Rabb is lucid and colorful in his language... Put this book on your \\"to read\\" list. <br /> <br />Ted Murena	2005-01-31
US	22620104	RU9V24FVUJ51E	1567310230	442248536	The Story of Civilization (11 Volume Set)	Books	5	112	116	N	N	The History of Man in the World. Read and Learn!	The Story of Civilization is an excellent history and the most complete result of the ambitious goal of writing a world history.  The books are organized in such a way that they can be read as individual works or be read out of sequence with no loss to their meaning.  Overall I rate them very highly and would suggest them to the interested non historian and implore the budding historian to read them since it is doubtless they will enjoy them.    Will Durant began his intellectually adventurous life attempting to be a philosopher. He was good at it but he, Like myself, saw the intertwining of history and philosophy.  I believe he saw that seeing the greatness of man's record (history) was more valuable and enriching than speculating on what man might be (philosophy). His books exude his philosophical inclinations and are far more enjoyable for optimistic view of man evolving towards greatness through the ages.     Durant paints each historical character has a real human being with the complexities of character we all have.  While he doesn't make excuses villains of history he makes sure he humanizes each person mentioned.  This is the main constant of the Story of Civilization: Durant sees civilization as a network of real people interacting.  His work presents all of recorded history not as chronology and not as a sequence of events but as a progression of people.     The style of the books is conversational and peppered with puns and overall enjoyable to read.  He is amazingly concise while still making his points. That being said, he does require that the reader do some work and remember people and events.   However, I surmise that it wont require heavy note taking or anything because these books are a fun read.    His style is a good mix of history as literature and history as a science.  The mix is necessary for the sake of readability and those of you who have been reading modern histories that seem rely too much on footnotes and data points or provide little at all will find his style refreshing.  The historians among you will be pleased the number of footnotes and the well documented bibliography , but I need to say that if you are attempting to use these books for university-level research, use them purely for their bibliography and pull out a few of his well-worded quotes for emphasis.     Overall you should take a chance with this set.  Buy a used copy simplybecause it makes an impressive statement on a bookshelf.  Even if you don't undertake the task you will have a beautiful set of books and your friends will be impressed by your intellectual prowess.  If you do decide to read them, you have made an even wiser decision.  While it required 5 years for me to complete the set, I am very happy I have and still to this day go back to them.  Buy them read them and enjoy them... you will vastly enrich your life with this set of books.    -- Ted Murena	2005-01-28
US	22620104	R2YRZJBDKDFWO0	0316545562	70090647	A World Lit Only by Fire: The Medieval Mind and the Renaissance: Portrait of an Age	Books	5	10	21	N	N	The Shattering: Finally a History is really Interesting	This book is really a good way to make history fun.  It is not way intended to be an academic tome.  Think of a good historical  film like \\"The Messenger\\", \\"Luther\\", or \\"Saving Private Ryan\\": these movies were all great to watch and yes you probably learned something by watching them, but they weren't the most accurate films either.  This is how I see \\"The World Lit Only By Fire\\".  The bottom line is this book is a fun introduction into the middle ages - renaissance, which up to the point that it was written, had rarely been written in such a brilliant and accessible manner. <br /> <br />The accessibility to this book  is its greatest feature.  From page one on the reader is delighted with interesting writing great anecdotes and a modest portion of what keeps prime-time television going (sex and violence).  It is also a quick read with just over 200 pages in small paperback format, it does not require a huge investment of time and energy by the reader. <br /> <br />I highly recommend this book to interested people of all ages.  I especially would like the younger readers to pick this one up.  It isn't difficult and you will history can be fun and exciting to read.  Though an introductory work, you will feel better informed about life in the middle ages and the enlightenment.  Give it a shot! <br /> <br />-- Ted Murena	2005-01-28
