US	22952028	R2KSH07JSYVZ6I	0812550307	638271918	The Fires of Heaven (The Wheel of Time, Book 5)	Books	3	4	5	N	N	A comeback but with its own frustrations	Despite the fact that the extremely famous Wheel of Time series seems to have lost some popularity with fans by the 10th book, this is a good epic (at least for the first 5 books I've read so far). Just like Tolkien allegedly created his world to explore the various invented languages, so too it seems that one of the motivations behind Jordan's creation is to suggest how mythology is born, lived and forgotten. As a result, the Wheel of Time world is centred on the idea of the revolving wheel where the succession of ages, is circular. The series contains a very well thought out universe and mythology as well as interesting characterisation and good writing. I don't really consider fantasy a favourite genre but this series has been good at least in the beginning.  <br /> <br />This fifth book is better than the previous two in that it contains much more action Rand-wise (whereas the previous ones had several hundred of pages of him moping). After the end of the last book, he finally has his own people the Aiel and he finally begins to take action, weaving around the politics of Aiel customs, his commitments to his friends and the guilt of having them involved as well as machinations from the Forsaken. <br /> <br />The frustrating part is largely the other characters: Elayne, Nynaeve, Siuan etc. who are all scattered throughout the land and go on their epic journeys which are tedious at times. That and the gender politics of the Wheel of Time are increasingly frustrating as the men are bumbling fools and the women unfeeling dominatrixes (or at least most characters fall into one of those two broad generalisations). The mechanics of the new divided Tower is always interesting but there is quite a bit of what I found to be very frustrating. <br /> <br />Apparently the next book (6) is very good and then it goes downhill until 11. This one still doesn't seem as drawn-out and scattered-with-plot-openings as the next ones probably are, but there are still plenty of Jordan'squirks which become tiresome after several thousand pages. Whether you persevere depends on how much you like the world he's created. If you forego a significant amount of annoyance, there's still a good tale to be told here!	2005-09-27
US	22952028	R3QLB52880LP4G	0140430571	608778610	Erewhon (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Wonderfully frustrating	This can be considered probably the first \\"modern\\" dystopian novel. It is about a European settler in a faraway colonial country who stumbles into the yet-unexpored mountain range to find the civilisation of Erewhon. These are very strange people who have knowingly cut themselves off from the world. In the tradition of Swift (in terms of the satirical picaresque-like novel), Butler describes the amazing society of Erewhon and the narrator's interations with it. <br /> <br />There are many features but two main ones are anti-technology and ethics. In terms of technology, the Erewhonians have deliberately destroyed all machines over a certain level of development because they see machines as the next evolutionary stage, one that will take over (or even already HAS), albeit in a very different form to intelligent life as we know it. In ethics, they reverse the moral status of crime and disease, with interesting consequences. <br /> <br />Many would find Butler's style overbearing. It does seem like the tell-and-not-show prose of Swift without enough literary merit to make it work. However, it shows that even prose we'd otherwise find ridiculous can be great if part of a novel of ideas. Part of the reason for this being a frustrating read is that we're never sure what side Butler's on - the society of Erewhon is meant to be a satire on the alleged illogic of our own institutions, but then he turns around and satirises the new society as well, as well as his satire of it all etc etc. This however keeps the perspective interesting, whereas if the novel pinned down Butler's opinion easily, we would just disagree and put the book down. <br /> <br />This is a very interesting, thought-provoking and important book. It's not great literature (in fact it grew out of several of Butler's articles and letters to the editor!) but it is an amazing artifact. This is because the things it is about (technology and intelligence, meta-ethics, the rights of people/animals/vegetables, thepurpose of the education system) are ones that have been pertinent throughout this century and will continue to be so - which isn't bad for what's quite managably a one day read!	2005-08-24
US	22952028	RTNZA34P8WFBU	0553212168	569503661	The Brothers Karamazov (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Dostoyevsky's best	I read the book in the original Russian so can't comment on this particular edition/translation. This was Dostoyevsky's last novel, he spent ages on it and he probably wanted it to contain as extensive yet concise a distillation of his ideas as he could. This has all been achieved, in a very intelligent, moving, emotional and philosophical story that truly does seem to be the pinnacle of his work.<br /><br />It is the story of a patricide in a \\"nice\\" little family of three brothers and their interactions. The book has some of the most complex and profound characterisation I've encountered, but the three brothers do represent in a nutshell some kind of archetype. Alyosha represents purity, spirituality and kindness. He is the hero of the novel essentially, and one of the best things about the novel that sets it apart from other Dostoyevsky books and fiction around his time in general - it's good to have a novel with a hero for a change [even if his value system is so completely different from our own] and not an antihero. Ivan represents intellectualism, the \\"seduction\\" of Western ideology, nihilism, atheism, socialism etc. Mitya represents unbridled passion, debauchery, an animal combination of cruelty and kindness.<br /><br />I think Dostoyevsky saw all three brothers present in the Russian people and the book is largely about them and the interaction of beliefs and practices. There are many other themes common to his previous novels - redemption, sin, suffering, the alleged superiority of the Russian mindset. These are fleshed out brilliantly.<br /><br />The book has many other important characters that add to the experience, such as Father Zosima and Ilyusha (considered to be Dostoyevsky's projection of his own son who died - makes for heartbreaking reading). Although this book has the famous Grand Inquisitor chapter (and others) which are often read and studied out of context, and they are good and important by themselves, these are nothing compared to the WHOLEwork in its richness.<br /><br />Not an easy read by any means, but a sublime journey.	2005-07-29
US	22952028	R3QOM2GAKLU7OP	0720402069	688750577	Talking about relativity	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A good if tad eccentric interpretation of relativity	Basically, this book is probably best suited (contrary to what the author claims) to those who already have some idea of Einstein's Theory of Relativity. Its aim is to present it in a new light, avoiding many of the pitfalls that the author believes are present in most interpretations. He is very critical of himself as well, but basically, he sees the use of Newtonian concepts like time, distance, speed etc as hindering the understanding of relativity, as they make it very hard to get the new thinking in using old terms with old definitions and old presuppositions. <br /> <br />Synge wants to wipe the slate clean. This is not a bad idea, but he does get quite pedantic. In particular, he likes to distinguish the world of reality and the model world (two examples of which are the Newtonian world and the relativistic one) - but I do think he does overdo it. <br /> <br />What he does achieve is a kind of understanding of relativity on its own terms. Another extremely unusual approach is that he begins with general relativity and proceeds to special relativity only in the last chapter. This is again to wipe the slate clean and despite some confusion, it does present an interesting approach. <br /> <br />The book is short. He spends a few chapters outlining concepts, the next few in setting the philosophical and physical scene for relativity (what does it mean that no coordinate system is privileged or that there is no such thing as simultaneity?). Then he introduces some of the mathematical concepts like tensors and Einsteins field equations and he lost me a bit here. He finishes with some excellent graphical interpretations, although these are found throughout the book. <br /> <br />Overall, an extremely interesting read for anyone interested in relativity, but it is an alternate teaching tool (which seems to be what Synge intended anyway), not an exhaustive study or interpretation.	2005-07-29
US	22952028	R346WVFH6N373U	0486238733	485761461	The Story of Maps	Books	3	14	16	N	N	Great information but many flaws too	I found reading this to be a mixed experience. Basically the book contains a historical study of cartography, from its ancient origins to 1945ish when it was written. It is an overview of largely the development of ideas and the social conditions that existed at the time in terms of cartography (and the obviously related geography and astronomy). <br /> <br />Its main strength is the detail of description of social conditions, especially in terms of trade and empires from the 1500s and onwards, and how this impacted mapmaking and cartography. Thus, it does not present the \\"science\\" of it in isolation. It is also very good at describing the achievements of major figures in cartography, especially Ptolemy, Mercator and John Harrison. For all these, it's definitely a worthwhile read. <br /> <br />And now to the flaws. It contains TOO much social context and not enough science (I think) to be a standalone work in cartography. There is much discussion on longitude and latitude but nothing on the mechanics of projections and surveying - two very important gaps. The book also seems to perpetuate the myth (or at least the exaggeration) that most people in Europe believed in a flat earth for a very long time in the middle ages. It greatly exaggerates this devoting many pages to showing how stupid the medievals were by pointing to several authors/mapmakers. The reality is that while some of them were, looking at a T and O map (or any symbollic medieval map) and figuring that the creator was a flat-earther is jumping to comclusions. Also, these authors seem to have been much lower in prominence than suggested. The book never states then how Europe \\"snapped out\\" of this belief again, the spherical earth just kinda reappears on the pages at some point WAY after the most conservative estimate of when this reappearance would have occured if it did. <br /> <br />Ultimately, this is a good work but very dated in terms of its scholarly approach and the rest. Even the seemingly tangential statement by the author that a Jewish teacher called Jesus was put to death by the Sanhedrin with Pilate merely tacitly approving or not stopping it shows that the text is a product of its time. <br /> <br />With a grain of salt, much can be gleaned from this. Without such a grain, there are probably a host of better introductions to cartography.	2005-07-29
US	22952028	R3JAYN037SU4MQ	0879973366	692102902	Monday Begins on Saturday	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Soviet research science meets the paranormal	This book is a humorous, intelligent and lively description of a secret research project in the USSR of the 60s that deals with magic. This means a Soviet-style laboratory complex with a host of characters that spend their lives pursuing science but with respect to magic objects, creatures from fairy tales and other elements of the supernatural. Cetrainly the Strugatski brothers mock Soviet bureaucracy, especially in the sciences - a great example of this (and one of my most vivid memories of the book) is the endless library of the paranormal they have in their lab, which is of indeterminate size and the corridors spontaneously rearrange themselves so that few dare to simply go in to look for a book - it also upholds the \\"noble science\\" ethos. This is done by having the characters be largely noble and dedicated.    The mixing of \\"proper\\" science and the paranormal is very amusing at times - it's sci-fi which parodies sci-fi. Also, the characterisation is quite purposely goofy, especially the director of the institute who exists in two copies (Janus-A and Janus-U) which are identical in appearance but seem to be profoundly different - a key mystery in the novel.    Great, clever reading that nowadays also has the added element of nostalgia, as well as some great parody of the scientific community, bureaucracy and the Soviet era in general. Although a lot of the humour will get lost if you're not reading this in Russian...	2005-07-28
US	22952028	R1U3AOH0N14G5Q	0812517725	878255505	The Great Hunt (The Wheel of Time, Book 2)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	The epic escalates	Despite the fact that the extremely famous Wheel of Time series seems to have lost some popularity with fans by the 10th book, this is a good epic (at least for the first 4 books I've read so far). Just like Tolkien allegedly created his world to explore the various invented languages, so too it seems that one of the motivations behind Jordan's creation is to suggest how mythology is born, lived and forgotten. As a result, the Wheel of Time world is centred on the idea of the revolving wheel where the succession of ages, is circular. The series contains a very well thought out universe and mythology as well as interesting characterisation and good writing. I don't really consider fantasy a favourite genre but this series has been good at least in the beginning. <br /> <br />In this, the second book, we go inside Tar Valon as the Edmond's Field girls begin their training in channelling, and all encounter the politics behind the various Ajah's (sort of like guilds that the Aes Sedai are divided in). The book is largely dedicated to the Hunt for the great Horn which is said to possess the power to bring back the heroes of old in a time of trouble. However, there is a personal interest in the boys joining the hunt, as Mat's life depends on in. In this book we also meet the amusing Ogier race and the deadly Seanchan who bring slavery and domination to a new level. <br /> <br />Although the fans may be right about the books faltering eventually, this one is enthralling fantasy with the richness of the world being the main strength in my opinion.	2005-07-28
US	22952028	R3FL2ILE5257R2	0375751513	317139448	The Picture of Dorian Gray (Modern Library Classics)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Delightfully decadent	Oscar Wilde was known for his outrageous takes on life (in terms of aesthetics, superficiality, beauty and the like). This book seems to both explore and satirise them. It is about the decadence and superficial pursuits of Dorian Gray, who is \\"ruined\\" by Lord Henry Wotton who teaches him that beauty and youth are the only true values. When Dorian's friend Basil paints a portrait of him, Dorian exclaims that he wished the portrait got old instead of him.<br /><br />This comes true and under further tutelage of Lord Henry, Dorian lives a life of debauchery, hedonism and the like while the portrait bears his age and sin, becoming more malformed with each act. The book is full of philosophical digressions on sin, beauty and indulgence and its most fabulous aspect is the fact that it is (or as least I think) both an ode to hedonism and an allegory against it all in one, all perfectly blended, all achieved through the medium of the witty writing of Wilde.	2005-07-28
US	22952028	R2Q0RU52VDLY75	0812513738	968535658	The Shadow Rising (The Wheel of Time, Book 4)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Many good parts but also much filler	Despite the fact that the extremely famous Wheel of Time series seems to have lost some popularity with fans by the 10th book, this is a good epic (at least for the first 4 books I've read so far). Just like Tolkien allegedly created his world to explore the various invented languages, so too it seems that one of the motivations behind Jordan's creation is to suggest how mythology is born, lived and forgotten. As a result, the Wheel of Time world is centred on the idea of the revolving wheel where the succession of ages, is circular. The series contains a very well thought out universe and mythology as well as interesting characterisation and good writing. I don't really consider fantasy a favourite genre but this series has been good at least in the beginning. <br /> <br />This fourth book contains many good parts that I enjoyed - the description of the history of the Aiel and their insanely harsh world, the mysteries of Rhuidean and some of the investigations in Tanchico. However, much of the book is spent in Rand-space - waiting for Rand to decide what to do, looking for Rand, Rand moping etc etc. This seems to go on for a few hundred pages and the tidbits of information in the midst of all this just aren't enough to stop the mind from wandering. <br /> <br />These faults (which are basically the same in the previous book) largely spoil what could have been a much punchier continuation of the saga.	2005-07-28
US	22952028	RJHU80SRN3IZQ	0446673579	456827410	2: The Eternal Temple (Ramses, Volume II)	Books	2	0	0	N	N	A series of historical novels with neither accuracy nor (much) entertainment	Christian Jacq has brought out a series of five novels detailing the life of Ramses II, one of his role models. The series largely fails as a historical novel series. Firstly, it is inaccurate historically. Yes, this can be OK in many cases, but here it is a deliberate mish-mash of historical figures and chronologies where Ramses II rubs shoulders with Moses, Menelaus, Homer etc etc. (although Moses is the most likely to be an actual contemporary, this still seems like hacking together people and events). As for entertainment value, it is interesting in the way that extremely light writing with implausible plotlines is a quick read as it doesn't require much concentration and doesn't wear you out. However, there is much better writing out there (both literary and \\"light\\") - here, I found the dialogue to be especially unreal. <br /> <br />Jacq does mythologise Egypt with the sacred mysteries and magic of the priests being real. He also does a lot to make the whole setting come alive, which is the biggest strength of the series. But this could all be done without the several ridiculous aspects of the books. <br /> <br />In this, the second book, with Seti dead, Ramses begins his rule and is immediately beset with the problems of running the kingdom. Circumstances also lead to a degree of estrangement from his childhood friends. He is plotted against by his brother and a sorcerer, so he decides to begin his rule by building Pi-Ramses - a new capital to be associated with his reign. <br /> <br />A decent series if there's nothing better to read and it will increase your interest in Egypt, but there IS something better to read in terms of almost all the aspects of the series.	2005-07-28
US	22952028	R3LBCJAQN24OEF	0446673595	803421384	4: Ramses: The Lady of Abu Simbel - Volume IV	Books	2	4	4	N	N	A series of historical novels with neither accuracy nor (much) entertainment	Christian Jacq has brought out a series of five novels detailing the life of Ramses II, one of his role models. The series largely fails as a historical novel series. Firstly, it is inaccurate historically. Yes, this can be OK in many cases, but here it is a deliberate mish-mash of historical figures and chronologies where Ramses II rubs shoulders with Moses, Menelaus, Homer etc etc. (although Moses is the most likely to be an actual contemporary, this still seems like hacking together people and events). As for entertainment value, it is interesting in the way that extremely light writing with implausible plotlines is a quick read as it doesn't require much concentration and doesn't wear you out. However, there is much better writing out there (both literary and \\"light\\") - here, I found the dialogue to be especially unreal. <br /> <br />Jacq does mythologise Egypt with the sacred mysteries and magic of the priests being real. He also does a lot to make the whole setting come alive, which is the biggest strength of the series. But this could all be done without the several ridiculous aspects of the books. <br /> <br />In this, the fourth book, the Exodus of the Hebrews is finally described. It differs much from both the Biblical and contemporary historical accounts, but is not novel enough I don't think, to justify the rearrangement of history. There are also developments in the diplomacy between the Egyptian, Hittite and Assyrian kingdoms and Ramses decides to build Abu Simbel - a monument to his love for his sick wife. <br /> <br />A decent series if there's nothing better to read and it will increase your interest in Egypt, but there IS something better to read in terms of almost all the aspects of the series.	2005-07-28
US	22952028	R2888K9RRUO35K	0812513711	820960971	The Dragon Reborn (The Wheel of Time, Book 3)	Books	3	9	9	N	N	Many good parts but also much filler	Despite the fact that the extremely famous Wheel of Time series seems to have lost some popularity with fans by the 10th book, this is a good epic (at least for the first 4 books I've read so far). Just like Tolkien allegedly created his world to explore the various invented languages, so too it seems that one of the motivations behind Jordan's creation is to suggest how mythology is born, lived and forgotten. As a result, the Wheel of Time world is centred on the idea of the revolving wheel where the succession of ages, is circular. The series contains a very well thought out universe and mythology as well as interesting characterisation and good writing. I don't really consider fantasy a favourite genre but this series has been good at least in the beginning. <br /> <br />This third book contains many good parts that I enjoyed - the continuation of the glimpse of the Game of the Houses and the idea of the Forsaken having infiltrated much of the kingdoms' societies, the near-impossible prophecy of Rand having to storm Tear to prove himself the Dragon Reborn and the menace of the Black Ajah finally taking toll. However, much of the book is spent in Rand-space - waiting for Rand to decide what to do, looking for Rand, Rand being tormented by everything he sees from rabbits to grass and hills etc etc. This seems to go on for a few hundred pages and the tidbits of information in the midst of all this just aren't enough to stop the mind from wandering. <br /> <br />These faults (which are basically the same in the next book) largely spoil what could have been a much punchier continuation of the saga.	2005-07-28
US	22952028	R3PMXOXJ2NRXHP	0446673560	572759303	1: Ramses: The Son of Light - Volume I	Books	2	16	17	N	N	A series of historical novels with neither accuracy nor (much) entertainment	Christian Jacq has brought out a series of five novels detailing the life of Ramses II, one of his role models. The series largely fails as a historical novel series. Firstly, it is inaccurate historically. Yes, this can be OK in many cases, but here it is a deliberate mish-mash of historical figures and chronologies where Ramses II rubs shoulders with Moses, Menelaus, Homer etc etc. (although Moses is the most likely to be an actual contemporary, this still seems like hacking together people and events). As for entertainment value, it is interesting in the way that extremely light writing with implausible plotlines is a quick read as it doesn't require much concentration and doesn't wear you out. However, there is much better writing out there (both literary and \\"light\\") - here, I found the dialogue to be especially unreal. <br /> <br />Jacq does mythologise Egypt with the sacred mysteries and magic of the priests being real. He also does a lot to make the whole setting come alive, which is the biggest strength of the series. But this could all be done without the several ridiculous aspects of the books. <br /> <br />In this, the first book, Ramses begins his education from his father Seti who trains him to harness the powers of evil and destruction and to be benevolent to the people. However, Ramses must endure machinations from his jealous brother Shaanar although he is helped by his childhood friends such as Ahmeni who becomes his scribe. We are also introduced to a post-Trojan-war Menelaus and Homer. <br /> <br />A decent series if there's nothing better to read and it will increase your interest in Egypt, but there IS something better to read in terms of almost all the aspects of the series.	2005-07-28
US	22952028	R2S4Z30G8KGKM2	0446673587	611019295	3: Ramses: The Battle of Kadesh - Volume III	Books	2	4	5	N	N	A series of historical novels with neither accuracy nor (much) entertainment	Christian Jacq has brought out a series of five novels detailing the life of Ramses II, one of his role models. The series largely fails as a historical novel series. Firstly, it is inaccurate historically. Yes, this can be OK in many cases, but here it is a deliberate mish-mash of historical figures and chronologies where Ramses II rubs shoulders with Moses, Menelaus, Homer etc etc. (although Moses is the most likely to be an actual contemporary, this still seems like hacking together people and events). As for entertainment value, it is interesting in the way that extremely light writing with implausible plotlines is a quick read as it doesn't require much concentration and doesn't wear you out. However, there is much better writing out there (both literary and \\"light\\") - here, I found the dialogue to be especially unreal. <br /> <br />Jacq does mythologise Egypt with the sacred mysteries and magic of the priests being real. He also does a lot to make the whole setting come alive, which is the biggest strength of the series. But this could all be done without the several ridiculous aspects of the books. <br /> <br />In this, the third book, Egypt is beset with diplomatic problems with the Hittites, who are portrayed as one-sidedly bloodthirsty and primitive as compared to the cosmopolitan Egyptians. Moses finally begins his burning bush sojourn and after much war and espionage, the story climaxes at the battle of Kadesh - a fortress in modern-day Syria. <br /> <br />A decent series if there's nothing better to read and it will increase your interest in Egypt, but there IS something better to read in terms of almost all the aspects of the series.	2005-07-28
US	22952028	R3UFTDCAWME7US	0812511816	456114433	The Eye of the World (The Wheel of Time, Book 1)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	A good start to a new world	Despite the fact that the extremely famous Wheel of Time series seems to have lost some popularity with fans by the 10th book, this is a good epic (at least for the first 4 books I've read so far). Just like Tolkien allegedly created his world to explore the various invented languages, so too it seems that one of the motivations behind Jordan's creation is to suggest how mythology is born, lived and forgotten. As a result, the Wheel of Time world is centred on the idea of the revolving wheel where the succession of ages, is circular. The series contains a very well thought out universe and mythology as well as interesting characterisation and good writing. I don't really consider fantasy a favourite genre but this series has been good at least in the beginning. <br /> <br />In this first book, we meet the small group of central characters: boys and girls from Edmond's Field - an extreme backwater - whose village is attacked by Trollocs and so the boys must leave it and face the wider world. This is done in the company of an Aes Sedai - a member of the extremely controversial organisation of female practitioners of what would be called magic in most other contexts. In their travels, they encounter sights of royalty like they've never seen before, an accursed city, and the Children of the Light (and Inquisition type group strongly opposed to Aes Sedai). Throughout this they're followed by the very forces that put their home in danger, but why? And why is Rand, one of the boys, constantly plagued by a demon-like creature in his dreams? <br /> <br />Although the fans may be right about the books faltering eventually, this one is enthralling fantasy with the richness of the world being the main strength in my opinion.	2005-07-28
US	22952028	RQK5T8CR121LW	0192834401	950133441	The Castle of Otranto: A Gothic Story	Books	3	2	4	N	N	A good but not brilliant ancestor of gothic stories	This is considered to be the first gothic story and it does set up many of the classic elements in terms of being in an old castle, the supernatural and some kind of old mystery that haunts the place and must be resolved. However, it is quite hard to read as the writing is extremely dense - too much to be enjoyed fully as a gothic novel. It's great historical value but in terms of enjoyment, this has the density of a much more serious work without the profoundness.	2005-07-27
US	22952028	R1FWVQXJHYBRLS	0141439475	655343360	Frankenstein	Books	5	2	4	N	N	One of the true world classics	Unfortunately, the idea of what Frankenstein is about has been heartily ruined by it being adopted by the schlock film industry in the 20th century. This, the real thing, is much more amazing than any movie. When the book was published, it was also somewhat of a milestone in the history of women's writing as Shelley used a male pseudonym but when the novel became extremely popular, the truth came out and many realised that, hey, women CAN write just as well as men! The writing is at times difficult but not overly so.<br /><br />What I remember most from reading it is a deep sense of philosophical despair that the book conveys. Unlike most film versions, the book is based on the idea of the suffering creation and works like Milton's Paradise Lost. The creature is created and then abandonned to fate, unable to be a part of society due to its physical ugliness. Eventually, it becomes a fiend after a heap of misfortunes and psychological torture. In what I think is some of the best horror writing ever, Shelley brilliantly describes the psychological mindgames between Frankenstein and the monster. However, mixed in with the evil caused and suffered is a sense of solidarity - the monster is inflicted with a profound pain and is a philosopher as much as a murderer.<br /><br />The book also deals with movements like Romanticism and the Scientific Revolution and their relationship. Thus, Frankenstein's scientific obsessions are portrayed as unhealthy in terms of not being accompanied by a sense of emotional context.<br /><br />There is an absolute heap of other symbolism in the book but even from the basic text, there are so many ideas and emotions being presented to the reader that this deserves to be hailed as one of the great world classics.	2005-07-27
US	22952028	R123PYNBWE2R9G	0440213525	282981210	The Client	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A good thriller	This seems to be one of the better Grisham books. A young boy and his brother witness the suicide of a man wanted by the mob. Now they know where the body is and with the younger brother in hospital with shock, the older one is left manouvering around the authorities who want to wrestle the details from him and the criminals who want to silence him. He is helped by an honest lawyer Reggie Love. <br /> <br />It's not profound literature but is definitely a good read.	2005-07-27
US	22952028	R1CNE6UKPQS9Z4	1587155699	564822623	The Surprising Adventures of Baron Munchausen (Alan Rodgers Books)	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Fabulous for all ages	Most would be familiar with the image of Munchausen telling implausible tales with happy glee. The Raspe version is the \\"canonical\\" Munchausen story and it's very entertaining. I think that stories for children that mock reality are very good for both amusement and education and this book certainly has its share - for instance the Baron's famous pulling himself out of a bog by his own hair (in an alternate version by the bootstraps, which seems to have formed the origin for the word \\"bootstrapping\\" and a general metaphor). His tales also have the classic sense of unbelievable exploration tradition from works like the Arabian Nights and Marco Polo's travels, where exotic lands are described as being populated with people with one giant foot each and other niceties. <br /> <br />We laugh at Munchausen but not only so much for the tallness of his stories but also for his character traits such as his pomp and sense of self-importance. As is the case with MANY good children's books, they are philosophical and suit adults as well. <br /> <br />The only possible dent may be the portrayal of the Turks which would seem racist by some today. However, this is extremely mild compared to racism in many other classic works, and was certainly not enough to detract from my enjoyment (as was the case with certain other authors from the last few centuries).	2005-07-27
US	22952028	R3BE43T6UTRM9O	0440224764	999720718	The Partner	Books	3	0	3	N	N	Nothing special	A lawyer fakes his death and runs off to Brazil with much of the partnership's funds. They search for him for years and finally find them. However, it turns out that he still has a few tricks and machinations up his sleeve with respect to starting afresh for a second time.<br /><br />Having read this several years ago, this is pretty much all I remember so it's not that memorable. A decent story but didn't stick in my mind.	2005-07-27
US	22952028	RSA2YKHZW0J8N	0451523377	821153252	Dracula (Signet Classics)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	The grandparent of vampirism	This is the original vampire novel that has rightly become world famous. It begins with Jonathan Harker, a real estate agent, visiting a count Dracula in his castle in Transylvania. Dracula wants to buy a property in London (and become a member of London society) but as Harker's diary reveals, something is seriously wrong in the castle. The novel follows Dracula's appearance and exploits in London as he begins to wreak havoc on Harker's fiancee and their friends. They form a kind of coalition to stop him.<br /><br />There is nothing remarkable in the story - it is indistinguishable from a heap of other vampire stories with the elements of stalking, attempts at scientific explanations, beheadings of the vampires, their uncanny strength and ability and so forth. What I think makes this book notable is the writing. It has a classic tone to it but is quite fast-paced, and Stoker also uses several of his characters as narrators making it a fairly multifaceted tale that well captures the helplessness, despair and anger felt by the characters due to the exploits of count Dracula.<br /><br />A great horror novel.	2005-07-27
US	22952028	R2N5VC0K6GL491	0755111958	542146658	Menagerie Manor	Books	5	33	34	N	N	A zoo with a difference	Unlike most other Durrel books which speak of his expeditions to study and work with animals, this one talks of him setting up his own zoo in the Channel island of Jersey. This book overturns a stereotype of the zoo as a humourless place with unhappy animals in poor conditions, at least for Durrell's zoo. <br /> <br />Much of the book deals with the characters he has become fond of - the \\"celebrity\\" animals in the zoo and the laughter and tears they have caused. It also speaks of the relationship between the zoo and the Jersey community - the initial reluctance followed by an outpouring of support. It also details many incidents that have occurred in the zoo, whether hilarious or touching. <br /> <br />A great read for all who love animals, as the author's attachment to them is felt in every page - as well as a testimony to what zoos can be within the scientific/community/ecological and environmental scale of things.	2005-07-27
US	22952028	R2AM8S2C6GWUXO	B0006E6EGE	130426295	The adventures of Dunno and his friends	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A great start to an evolving children's trilogy	There are three Nosov books about Dunno (Neznaika in Russian) that I know of and they form a great trilogy and progression. These are very famous children's books in Russia although nowadays the animated movies are [unfortunately] much more familiar.    The books are set in a world of short people (about the size of a mushroom and drawn to look like children but with adult occupations) living in Flower Town. Dunno is, as the name implies, a rather naive short person, with not much knowledge but a whole lot of laziness and pranksterism. The books detail the adventures of Dunno and his friends as well as his slow maturation as he learns about the world and the readers learn with him. The trilogy thus forms a great progression for kids to read as the books deal with more complex topics and ideas.    This first book introduces the characters and Dunno. He tries various things like art and music always with hilarious results. Then, when the hot air balloon is invented, him and his friends go on a journey across the land to a bigger town where Dunno is introduced to things like farming, the complexity of friendships and getting along.    I read the books in Russian so not sure about this translation. As another note, many other Dunno books from Amazon seem to be simply chapters from the first book, so I hope this product IS the complete first book. The second and third books are not to be found on Amazon which is a real shame as they do form a great trilogy. In the second Dunno gets a magic wand and goes to a large city with his friends where he learns much more about technology, wreaking havoc and responsibility (and chess!). In the third book, the little people invent a rocket and fly to the moon, discovering a whole civilisation of little people under its surface. Here, Dunno and his friends explore social conditions and justice in a police state run by millionaires. Hopefully it's obvious that these form a great learning experience for kids and in a very fun way as well so if you find the trilogy I suggest you get it!	2005-07-27
US	22952028	R2M327E8ZDBBQ1	0374453098	98436011	Moominvalley in November (Moomins)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	A more melancholy  Moomin book	Tove Jansson was a Swedish-speaking Finnish writer and illustrator who wrote many childrens books including the famous Moomin series. Here, the setting is Moominvalley which is basically the natural beauty and pristineness of Finland, populated by Moomins (who look like little hippos which stand upright and are fluffy) and a host of other weird and wonderful creatures. The action is mainly centred around the family with Moominpappa, Moominmamma and Moomintroll the kid. They set a tone for the whole series as Tove infused them and their whole universe with experiences of her own family which seem to have been a very bohemian, artistic, tolerant and warm lot. This makes the books great reading for kids from an early age as they invoke a wonderful sense of fun and silliness as well as acceptance and openmindedness. <br /> <br />One thing I remember from reading these as a kid is that the plot didn't really matter. In some books, it's hard to say exactly what happens. Rather, it is the atmosphere that I found the most important. In this book, the Moomins have gone away leading the other characters to miss them. Combined with the autumn feel in Moominvalley, the book has a melancholy feel and focuses on the side characters and their strengths and insecurities. <br /> <br />A great series overall, filled with imagination, surrealism, fun and warmth.	2005-07-26
US	22952028	R2WO5DQPR021FW	0374453101	940825855	Moominsummer Madness	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A truly magical world	Tove Jansson was a Swedish-speaking Finnish writer and illustrator who wrote many childrens books including the famous Moomin series. Here, the setting is Moominvalley which is basically the natural beauty and pristineness of Finland, populated by Moomins (who look like little hippos which stand upright and are fluffy) and a host of other weird and wonderful creatures. The action is mainly centred around the family with Moominpappa, Moominmamma and Moomintroll the kid. They set a tone for the whole series as Tove infused them and their whole universe with experiences of her own family which seem to have been a very bohemian, artistic, tolerant and warm lot. This makes the books great reading for kids from an early age as they invoke a wonderful sense of fun and silliness as well as acceptance and openmindedness. <br /> <br />One thing I remember from reading these as a kid is that the plot didn't really matter. In some books, it's hard to say exactly what happens. Rather, it is the atmosphere that I found the most important. This book is one of the more upbeat ones in the series in terms of craziness and slapstick. In it, the Moomins find themselves caught in the midst of the production of a pompous play (which is a great satire on theatre in general) and they and their friends encounter minds less tolerant than theirs (such as the garden with the prohibition signs - No Smoking, No Sitting on the Grass, No Singing, No Jumping! etc). <br /> <br />A great series overall, filled with imagination, surrealism, fun and warmth.	2005-07-26
US	22952028	R1I71Y5DV1JPFI	1572010282	601999833	The Golden Calf, Zolotoi Telenok: An Annotated, Accented Reader With Exercises (Russian Edition)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A great sequel to a cutting satire	Firstly, I read the book in an original Russian edition so I make no claims about this particular edition. <br /> <br />Ilf and Petrov were two satirical writers who were very popular in the Soviet Union. Of course during the writing of this book (and its prequel the Twelve Chairs) it was impossible to satirise life in the 20s and 30s in the USSR directly without losing your life. They managed to write two books that satisfied both the officials and the readers. The books are incredibly funny and absurd dissections of almost every aspect of Soviet society, but often the most punchy parts aren't said explicitly. They also make fun of the pre-Soviet mindset just as well. <br /> <br />In The Golden Calf we again see Ostap Bender the charismatic con artist re-emerge after surviving his last adventure against all odds. He teams up with a small handful of other petty criminals and a car and they come up with another enrichment scheme. This time, they aim to blackmail Koreiko who they find out is a millionaire. They go on a road trip to end all road trips and again see their country through the magnifying glass that is the satire of Ilf and Petrov. There is also an ideological part as Bender's investigation of Koreiko's past causes him to \\"lose his faith in humanity\\" and he also finds that having money in the USSR is no advantage whatsoever - in fact it alienates him further from society (one of my favourite scenes is when a dejected Bender seeks an audience with a visiting Indian philosopher to find out the meaning of life). <br /> <br />A fierce, sharp but warmhearted satire on early Soviet and pre-Soviet society - make sure to read the prequel too!	2005-07-26
US	22952028	R31B9QF77VTK00	0374453039	902886347	Moominland Midwinter (Moomins)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A truly magical world	Tove Jansson was a Swedish-speaking Finnish writer and illustrator who wrote many childrens books including the famous Moomin series. Here, the setting is Moominvalley which is basically the natural beauty and pristineness of Finland, populated by Moomins (who look like little hippos which stand upright and are fluffy) and a host of other weird and wonderful creatures. The action is mainly centred around the family with Moominpappa, Moominmamma and Moomintroll the kid. They set a tone for the whole series as Tove infused them and their whole universe with experiences of her own family which seem to have been a very bohemian, artistic, tolerant and warm lot. This makes the books great reading for kids from an early age as they invoke a wonderful sense of fun and silliness as well as acceptance and openmindedness. <br /> <br />One thing I remember from reading these as a kid is that the plot didn't really matter. In some books, it's hard to say exactly what happens. Rather, it is the atmosphere that I found the most important. In this book, Moomintroll is left to adventure with his friends alone as his parents are in their winter hibernation. The whole world seems to have disappeared and a range of strange happenings confound him. <br /> <br />A great series overall, filled with imagination, surrealism, fun and warmth.	2005-07-26
US	22952028	R24RG4H3PX14XI	0810114844	477956006	The Twelve Chairs (European Classics)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	A cutting satire	Firstly, I read the book in Russian so I make no claims about this particular translation. <br /> <br />Ilf and Petrov were two satirical writers who were very popular in the Soviet Union. Of course during the writing of this book (and its sequel the Golden Calf), it was impossible to satirise life in the 20s and 30s in the USSR directly without losing your life. They managed to write two books that satisfied both the officials and the readers. The books are incredibly funny and absurd dissections of almost every aspect of Soviet society, but often the most punchy parts aren't said explicitly. They also make fun of the pre-Soviet mindset just as well. <br /> <br />In The Twelve Chairs we meet Ostap Bender - a quick-witted con artist who is a trickster and generally a loveable embellisher. He teams up with Hippolite - a greedy former aristocrat - in the search of the twelve chairs of one lady who they find out hid her diamonds in one of them during the revolution. Off they go on a hunt for the set, chair by chair (obviously the set was scattered) that leads them to Moscow and beyond, into the various regional towns in Russia. Their encounters are very funny. What was most memorable for me were Elle the Cannibal (an ultrahip woman who has a vocabulary of only 30 words) and when Bender cons the citizens of Vasiuki that he is a great chess champion. <br /> <br />A fierce, sharp but warmhearted satire on early Soviet and pre-Soviet society - make sure to read the sequel too!	2005-07-26
US	22952028	R1384F8S0YAJ8H	B0006BVHX2	923846716	The white chief;: A legend of North Mexico	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Atmospheric and bloody	This is a period piece set in Central Mexico (in an undetermined time but probably the mid 19th Century) in the probably fictional settlement of San Ildefonso. The main character is Karlos - a bison hunter from a poor family and an amazing horseman, marksman etc. When he wins in the local tournament and wins the heart of Katriona (one of the most eligible bachelorettes in town), he gains a powerful enemy in a wealthy officer from a twin case of jealousy. What follows is an escalating struggle of cunning, tragedy and revenge. The notable aspect of the book is Karlos becoming the chief of one of the native tribes in the area. In fact, he is sort of a champion of the outcasts of the town and is against the cruelty of the local military officers and church.  <br /> <br />But this is a Mexican revenge-type tragedy so not exactly placid. Reid's books are usually for children or young adults. It's hard to judge exactly what age this is good for but overall, it's a good yarn with much of the violence that was the harsh reality in Mexico's colonial history.	2005-07-26
US	22952028	R1T0P2YRV1FUVJ	0374453071	295058101	Moominpappa's Memoirs (Moomins)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A truly magical world	Tove Jansson was a Swedish-speaking Finnish writer and illustrator who wrote many childrens books including the famous Moomin series. Here, the setting is Moominvalley which is basically the natural beauty and pristineness of Finland, populated by Moomins (who look like little hippos which stand upright and are fluffy) and a host of other weird and wonderful creatures. The action is mainly centred around the family with Moominpappa, Moominmamma and Moomintroll the kid. They set a tone for the whole series as Tove infused them and their whole universe with experiences of her own family which seem to have been a very bohemian, artistic, tolerant and warm lot. This makes the books great reading for kids from an early age as they invoke a wonderful sense of fun and silliness as well as acceptance and openmindedness. <br /> <br />One thing I remember from reading these as a kid is that the plot didn't really matter. In some books, it's hard to say exactly what happens. Rather, it is the atmosphere that I found the most important. In this book, Moominpappa writes his memoirs of his adventures when he ran away from home as a boy, and his encounters with creatures like an undignified prankster king.  <br /> <br />A great series overall, filled with imagination, surrealism, fun and warmth.	2005-07-26
US	22952028	R2HDQQI51UBU26	B0006CBWPO	117665218	The hunter of the Pamirs;: A novel of adventure in Soviet Central Asia	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A late 20s Central Asian thriller	This is the story of a bunch of people both big and small, as well as political events in the 1920s in Central Asia - the Pamir, Kashgar, Kyrgystan etc. The main character is Djura who lives in a very remote village in the mountains of the Pamir. It is so isolated and downtrodden that they must scrounge to survive by Djura's dangerous mountain hunting. Furthermore, they are completely ignorant, superstitious and kept under tight reigns by their greedy and vengeful chief. <br /> <br />Enter some people who snap Djura out of this existence. Suddenly, he finds himself away from home (along with Kuchak his uncle and Zeineb his love) caught in a world of Soviet explorers, scientists and general militiamen on one side and the Ismailis (a powerful sect with aspects of the secret society), the Aga Khan and his minions who are in effect warlords. <br /> <br />Djura finds himself a soldier fighting alongside the Soviets and his world is slowly opening up. His uncle on the other hand experiences the extreme decadence and hardship of the overly-merchant parts of Central Asia. Zeineb is kidnapped by one of the warlords. <br /> <br />The book is a tale of Djura's determination and strength (in all aspects of his life) and the emergence of a \\"modern man\\" from his naivety. There is of course an element of Soviet propaganda in all this but still, a great, fast-paced and exciting book that moves across thousands of kilometres of locations through the great beauty and cultural uniqueness of Central Asia, amidst the factions, warlords, conspiracies and ideologies. Oh and it has great chapter titles like \\"Wherever you wander the sky is dark and only in your home land does the blue expanse open up for you\\". A great read!	2005-07-26
US	22952028	R2CNQ7B3O0PCJG	0553293400	579875460	The Caves of Steel (R. Daneel Olivaw, Book 1)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Thought provoking sci fi	I read this as a kid so my memory of it may be coloured but it was great. In this Asimov we meet detective Elijah Bailey for the first time. We also meet the kind of world he's living in - one where a lack of resources and overpopulation has meant that the government controls a great deal of aspects of people's lives including jobs, food rations etc. It also means that the major cities (including New York where this is set) are covered by a dome - the modern man and woman are never \\"outdoors\\" as such and being outdoors has become a taboo or some kind of universal phobia. There are also Spacers who broke away from this kind of constrained society a while ago to colonize other world. Relations are strained between the two groups. <br /> <br />The book is the case of the murder of one spacer - an important scientist. Bailey, in his investigations, gets an unusual partner - Daniel, a robot who was designed by the vic, looks exactly like him and is the latest in advanced spacer robot construction technology. Alongside the detective story (which by itself wouldn't have been that great), Daniel learns about Bailey's world, and its absurdities, while Elijah contemplates what it means to be an earth human/spacer/robot. <br /> <br />Overall, I found this entertaining and thoughtprovoking which I think are the two cornerstones of good sci-fi.	2005-07-26
US	22952028	R1ZYMCGHC65NFZ	B0006ATWOO	608889486	Inspector Maigret and the Killers (translated from the French - Maigret, Lognon et les Gangsters)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A clash of detective genres	Although not commonly heard of nowadays (in the English speaking world at least) Georges Simenon was a very prolific writer of the detective genre, most famous for his Maigret series (with well over a hundred books stretching from 1931 all the way to 1972!!). Maigret is basically a French response to detectives like Sherlock Holmes. Not as interested in physical evidence and the rational, he seeks to understand the characters behind the cases and their often tragic lives. Maigret has an aspect of humanism and warmth throughout the books, especially for those less fortunate in French society. His cases present an element of uncertainty that is natural when dealing with people and are thus much more realistic than Sherlock Holmes type stories (although less satisfying \\"logically\\"). <br /> <br />This particular book describes Maigret's wrestling with some American gangsters that come to Paris for unknown reasons and then amongst other things, kidnap his unpleasant/pathetic colleague Lognon. The whole book follows a culture clash as the gangsters and the people Maigret talks to about the case, such as Poccho the dodgy Sicilian-born US expat, are much more direct and familiar, and are used to resisting police. There is also an element of pride as everyone tells Maigret not to bother - these aren't your French amateurs but real American gangsters who don't much about. But of course he shows them! <br /> <br />The Maigret novels may not be profound literature but they are extremely well written, compassionate and involving detective stories. This one is like a clash of genres with the 1920s gangster book and the Maigret empathetic-but-tough-French-detective-book coming together.	2005-07-25
US	22952028	R3GENN19RBLTYN	0679760806	778351106	The Master and Margarita	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Incomprehensible, grotesque and brilliant	I read this book a while ago in the Russian original so don't know about this particular translation/edition. The novel is a very bold and subversive book from both a literary and thematic/philosophical approach considering it was written in the peak of early Stalinism in the Soviet Union. In fact, Bulgakov had a long battle with the censors about this work and his others and many were banned.    I don't remember the details well at all, but the novel is a surreal blend of the literary and intellectual world in Moscow in the 1930s and the encounter between Jesus and Pontius Pilate in Jerusalem. The two main settings intertwine and mirror each other as the \\"true\\" story of Jesus is told by Woland - the devil who comes to Moscow with his minions including a talking cat. The notions of good and evil draw much from the brilliant Faust but are carried over to the hypocrisy, despair and seeds of goodness in the Moscow setting.    The title describes some of the main characters - the Master who is a writer whose work is rejected leading to his extended melancholy and Margarita, his love. The interplay between them, the rest of the literary world and Woland (Satan) and his minions leads to what I can only describe as a completely topsy-turvy novel that is incredibly rich in ideas many of whom will be missed by those who've never had the misfortune to experience Moscow in the late 20s and early 30s and those who have read this only once (or not at all). Fortunately, the second condition is easily fixed! I guess for me, the necessary cure is a reread of this amazing work.	2005-07-25
US	22952028	R2RDN0HGR8G2C6	0863151396	177050708	The Wonderful Adventures of Nils	Books	5	11	12	N	N	A fairy tale and a description of Sweden in one	Nils is a typical troublemaker in a village in southern Sweden who pulls the tails of cats, throws rocks at geese etc. Then he finds a gnome and teases him as well, but the result is that he is shrunk to the size of a sparrow so all the creatures he was mean to can get their own. Too ashamed to show his new self to his family, he travels with the wild geese on their annual migration to Lapland. <br /> <br />What follows is a picaresque and description of the natural world of Sweden from the south to the north in terms of the environment, the animals and the life that they lead. The flock of geese is a matriarchy led by the experienced and assertive Akka. In his travels, Nils learns helplessness and helping others and has many adventures involving magic flutes, a castle with rats and an underwater city. He also learns respect and admiration for the animals and the natural world. <br /> <br />This is a children's story with some features rarely found in other books (such as the matriarchy and the focus on the natural without too much \\"magic\\" - although the animals do talk) which makes it memorable.	2005-07-25
US	22952028	R1D97F7JRMIR1O	043512143X	363023812	Maigret's First Case (New Windmills)	Books	4	9	9	N	N	A good start to the famous detective series	Although not commonly heard of nowadays (in the English speaking world at least) Georges Simenon was a very prolific writer of the detective genre, most famous for his Maigret series (with well over a hundred books stretching from 1931 all the way to 1972!!). Maigret is basically a French response to detectives like Sherlock Holmes. Not as interested in physical evidence and the rational, he seeks to understand the characters behind the cases and their often tragic lives. Maigret has an aspect of humanism and warmth throughout the books, especially for those less fortunate in French society. His cases present an element of uncertainty that is natural when dealing with people and are thus much more realistic than Sherlock Holmes type stories (although less satisfying \\"logically\\"). <br /> <br />This particular book describes Maigret's first case and the uncertainty element is already there. He gets a report of an incident and upon subsequent investigation does not even know if a crime has been committed. The household in question provides no answers - did someone get shot there on the night of the report and if so who and why? We also get to see Maigret's determination and use of psychology and understanding. <br /> <br />The Maigret novels may not be profound literature but they are extremely well written, compassionate and involving detective stories.	2005-07-25
US	22952028	R35YZWTUYILPIE	0156028395	210853483	Maigret and the Bum (Maigret Mystery Series)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	The warmth of Maigret exposed	Although not commonly heard of nowadays (in the English speaking world at least) Georges Simenon was a very prolific writer of the detective genre, most famous for his Maigret series (with well over a hundred books stretching from 1931 all the way to 1972!!). Maigret is basically a French response to detectives like Sherlock Holmes. Not as interested in physical evidence and the rational, he seeks to understand the characters behind the cases and their often tragic lives. Maigret has an aspect of humanism and warmth throughout the books, especially for those less fortunate in French society. His cases present an element of uncertainty that is natural when dealing with people and are thus much more realistic than Sherlock Holmes type stories (although less satisfying \\"logically\\").<br /><br />In this particular book Maigret investigates what others would probably have dismissed as a nothing case. The attempted murder of a vagrant fails as he is fished out of the river. Who would want to kill a homeless mand and who cares anyway? But contrary to this common attitude of his environment, Maigret treats this case as one of primary importance. We see Maigret's warmth and humanity as he uncovers the life of Tubib, his family that he left and the circumstances that led to this seemingly petty case.<br /><br />The Maigret novels may not be profound literature but they are extremely well written, compassionate and involving detective stories.	2005-07-25
US	22952028	R3CRZC6D406509	0416802400	217049759	Karlson on the Roof	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A great series	Karlson is one of Astrid Lindgren's most famous creations. It spans at least 3 books - Karlson on the Roof, Karlson Flies Again and Karlson is Sneaking Around Again (this one being the first).    Karlson is a short, fat man with a properller in his back and a button on his belly. He flies around and lives on the roof of a Stockholm suburb. In the series, he befriends what was a lonely boy, the youngest of three children. Karlson is a memorable character who takes pranks to the extreme, as well as slapstick humour, gluttony (especially for sweets) and is generally a happy-go-lucky wiseass who describes himself as \\"a beautiful and pleasingly plump man in his prime\\". Children are not below appreciating ironic humour and this series explores it well as we laught at his pranks while realising the character traits that they are mocking (as they are exaggerated to a childlike extreme - he constantly demands attention, food and is a general drama queen).    In this book, Karlson meets the boy and they develop a friendship as well as enocountering some robbers. A great read for kids from a young age!	2005-07-24
US	22952028	R3UWXMVUYUBRD2	089875416X	852196370	The Three Fat Men	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Stunning despite being part of the Soviet propaganda canon	Yes, this is an ideological piece written to glamorise the Soviet revolution etc etc, but in reality, it's a great book that can be enjoyed by anyone from children that are old enough to appreciate the idea of justice (quite early). <br /> <br />Set in a fictional, magical Italian-type world, the tale tells of a revolution in a country that is ruled by a greedy and immoral aristocracy (that indulges opulently while the populace starves) headed by the Three Fat Men. The men have a young boy Tutti who they are raising as their heir. To make him cruel they forbid contact with children allowing him only a doll for a companion and they build a zoo with wild animals so that he learns cruelty. <br /> <br />The book begins with the capture and encagement of the revolutionary Prospero and the breaking of Tutti's doll. Enter the elderly Dr Gaspar and a bunch of ordinary extraordinary people whose lives are brought together in this crucial moment in the life of the country. <br /> <br />An absurd and story with elements of the tragic, feels timeless and is a great read for all.	2005-07-24
US	22952028	RX2QWQ2CY2R8U	0416583903	86898427	Karlson Flies Again	Books	5	9	9	N	N	A great series	Karlson is one of Astrid Lindgren's most famous creations. It spans at least 3 books - Karlson on the Roof, Karlson Flies Again and Karlson is Sneaking Around Again (this one being the second).    Karlson is a short, fat man with a properller in his back and a button on his belly. He flies around and lives on the roof of a Stockholm suburb. In the series, he befriends what was a lonely boy, the youngest of three children. Karlson is a memorable character who takes pranks to the extreme, as well as slapstick humour, gluttony (especially for sweets) and is generally a happy-go-lucky wiseass who describes himself as \\"a beautiful and pleasingly plump man in his prime\\". Children are not below appreciating ironic humour and this series explores it well as we laught at his pranks while realising the character traits that they are mocking (as they are exaggerated to a childlike extreme - he constantly demands attention, food and is a general drama queen).    In this book, the boy explores more of Karlson's world on the roof (including Karlson's endearing \\"portrait of my rabbits\\" which is a picture of a fox!) and the two of them terrorise and are oppressed by Bok - an unpleasant nanny past her middle age that was arranged for the boy while his family are away. A great read for kids from a young age!	2005-07-24
US	22952028	R2EHRWU50EURGV	1565124421	166431857	King Matt the First	Books	5	2	3	N	N	One of my favourite childrens books	This should be mandatory reading for all. It is the story by an amazing man who spent his whole life dedicated to the betterment of humanity and perished in the Holocaust side by side with the children of the orphanage he was in charge of. Like many of his works, this one is drenched with the love of children and people in general. <br /> <br />[This review is a slight spoiler so if you're pedantic about not finding out anything then this won't help] The story is set in some Eastern European monarchy in the early 20th century (or so it seems from the descriptions). Matt is a boy younger than 12 who becomes king when his father the king dies. He is immediately introduced to the clash between his childlike idealism and the overprotective, overbearing and obfuscated world of his ministers and the cogs of government. The neighbouring nations immediately attack but instead of being in comfort, he sneaks away to the frontlines to fight in the war. Upon his return, he sets about instituting reforms for his country, makes friends with the uncivilised African cannibal nations (these sections read strangely nowadays but it seems like Korczak's subtle commentary of the racism he saw in his homeland) and even opens a childrens' parliament, dedicated to protecting the enriching the lives of children. <br /> <br />Unfortunately, the ending is truly tragic as corruption, espionage, conspiracy and betrayal lead to the ultimate demise of his rule. The book has everything from thoughtful moments musing about justice and war and what it means to be an adult or child to fun parts where King Matt just enjoys his \\"natural\\" age.  <br /> <br />A great book for children and adults. I've just discovered this book has a sequel so am off hunting for it.	2005-07-24
US	22952028	R2LKETYI9MTWJ9	0416880207	3583171	The World's Best Karlson	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A great series	Karlson is one of Astrid Lindgren's most famous creations. It spans at least 3 books - Karlson on the Roof, Karlson Flies Again and Karlson is Sneaking Around Again (this one is I assume the third but since the title doesn't match any of these it's only a guess). <br /> <br />Karlson is a short, fat man with a properller in his back and a button on his belly. He flies around and lives on the roof of a Stockholm suburb. In the series, he befriends what was a lonely boy, the youngest of three children. Karlson is a memorable character who takes pranks to the extreme, as well as slapstick humour, gluttony (especially for sweets) and is generally a happy-go-lucky wiseass who describes himself as \\"a beautiful and pleasingly plump man in his prime\\". Children are not below appreciating ironic humour and this series explores it well as we laught at his pranks while realising the character traits that they are mocking (as they are exaggerated to a childlike extreme - he constantly demands attention, food and is a general drama queen). <br /> <br />In this book (at least I hope this title is the third one I'm describing), the boy is once again left with Bok - the elderly and unpleasant nanny - as well as his uncle Julius who is a carricature of a snob and pedant. It's up to him and Karlson to have some fun at their expense and fix their rigid worldviews with some good old fashioned and good natured prankery. <br /> <br />A great read for kids from a very young age!	2005-07-24
US	22952028	R3PLETY3AFB484	0590663925	489417537	Pippi Longstocking, Pippi Goes On Board, Pippi in the South Seas	Books	4	6	6	N	N	A good collection of children's books	Pippi Longstocking is one of the more famous characters of the children's author Astrid Lindgren. She is an independent, tomboy-type-gal who lost her mother at a very young age and was separated from her father - a captain who became lost at sea. Fortunately, thanks to her time with him, she has travelled far and wide and acquired an incredible strength. She moves into a typical Swedish village and together with her new friends Tommy and Annika, gives that world a touch of childlike magic. <br /> <br />She is very fond of telling absurd stories of her travels, spontaneous activities, feats of strength, especially righting wrongs and the rest. This is all tempered with a healthy disdain for authority and a lack of \\"etiquette\\" - when she decides to start school, she tells her teacher she wants to be a pirate AND a lady when she grows up. <br /> <br />Eventually, she visits her father on an island where he has turned out to have become the king, and treats Tommy, Annika and the whole class to a great host of adventures. <br /> <br />Not as amusing as some other Lindgren characters, Pippi is still a good role-model in terms of being the rough girl with the heart of gold. The stories are still very playful and fun. A good read for children from a young age (like most Lindgren books).	2005-07-24
US	22952028	R1INJG2PVRNGE6	0695803565	275486784	Emil and piggy beast	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A loveable brat	Of all the characters of the children's author Astrid Lindgren I know of, Emil is definitely the most naughty. In the Emil collection of books, he always seems to get into an enormous amount of trouble as his pranks in his little Swedish village are almost all-pervasive. He hoists his little sister up a flagpole, accidentally gets his pig and himself drunk on fermented cherries and sends his older sister running after a horse with a rope around her tooth in his attempts at dentistry. <br /> <br />I found the book hilarious when I was a kid. Looking over it now, it's not as funny - other books have better slapstick than here. But Emil often seems to, in his pranks, use his innocence to allow the readers to see some hypocrisy in their life. He is an amazing kid who is very determined, thoughtful and energetic underneath the pranks. A goldmine for any young child when they learn to read (or before!).	2005-07-24
US	22952028	R3VAV40ALEOV4Z	225301270X	657881353	Les Cinq Cents Millions de la Begum (Le Livre de Poche) (French Edition)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Much more than science fiction	This book (along with The Mysterious Island) is my absolute favourite of Verne. And it's very different to the Verne books which are commonly known (like Around the World in Eighty Days) all of which I think are very inferior to his more mature work. <br /> <br />The title of the book means \\"The 500 million of the Begum\\". The Begum was an Indian princess and the novel begins with two people simultaneously inheriting half of the 500 million as her descendants (a huge sum in the late 19th century!). One is an enlightened French professor, the other is a militaristic and nationalistic German. They both use the money to start cities in a deserted part of the US, each city espousing their view of their builders - the French one as being chiefly concerned with sanitation, health, sanity and well-being and the German one as a military-industrial complex bent on conquest. The main part of the book is the story of the two cities and their struggle, as well as the infiltration of the German city by a disciple of the French professor. <br /> <br />What we have is so much more than sci-fi - this is sci-fi with a conscience, a philosophical basis and a political theory. Of course, the hero-French and villain-German overtones read as simplistic today, but it's still interesting historically (as Verne predicted not only technology but political trends, as the founder of the German city is a classic precursor to the world wars).  <br /> <br />The book is fascinating in its descriptions of technology and human nature, as well as in that it asks all the right questions about our ideas of science, progress, technology and ideology - and this is what the very best science fiction is all about. This is Verne at his absolute best - an enthralling adventure story that's far more thoughtprovoking than both his \\"popular\\" novels and most other novels too!	2005-07-01
US	22952028	RNJX3WOW0DND0	0812972120	53340599	The Mysterious Island (Modern Library Classics)	Books	5	53	54	N	N	A testament to humanity	Mysterious Island is the third book in a trilogy by Verne (the 1st being In Search of the Castaways and the 2nd the famous 20000 Leagues Under the Sea). I think it's by far the best of the three - it's one of my favourites of Verne and makes the other 2 look completely superficial. It was one of my favourites as a child but now I really want to read it as an adult as I think it will be even better.    A bunch of people fighting on the side of the abolisionists in the US Civil War escape a siege on a hot air balloon. They're blown off course and are shipwrecked on a deserted island on the Pacific. However, Verne takes an optimistic approach to the story (of course it helps that the 5 or so people are all quite good at one thing or another). Over the period of their stay, they \\"conquer\\" the island as they build what is literally a civilisation with their bare hands. What follows is a story of redemption, struggle and the amazing parts of the human spirit (ones most people never get to see outside of extreme circumstances), as well as the heroes' hunt for the secret of the island.    In many other books, Verne describes scenery or nature for pages and pages which can get tiresome. But never here, for here he is singing a sublime ode to inventiveness as our heroes' knowledge of everything from chemistry to astronomy to the humanities is turned to use. This is an adventure book but it's much more deep than most adventure books - you can really tell that Verne was writing in an era of the belief in progress (the modern reader will probably have a very different attitude to nature than the author) and this book is the immortal tale of the best human nature has to offer, all against a backdrop of action.	2005-06-22
US	22952028	R3BRQ88NWA0KDR	0812550927	781459831	20,000 Leagues Under the Sea (Tor Classics)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Good, but a Verne classic it ain't	For some reason, a few of Verne's many works have become famous in the English speaking world and have even gained some kind of \\"classic\\" status. Unfortunately, these are in my opinion his more superficial and uninteresting novels. 20000 Leagues Under the Sea is a perfect example.<br /><br />Most people would have heard of the idea through some part of culture - the story of Captain Nemo in his submarine (Verne's alleged prophetic vision) and how one outsider is forced through circumstance to join Nemo and his crew on a host of adventures across the seas. This is fine, and that's what the book is. BUT, unlike many better Verne novels, this is ALL it is. It's an adventure story mixed with a description of the various wonders of the udnerwater world (including Atlantis). Don't get me wrong, Verne is good at describing all these things and it's interesting and certainly makes you think about worlds other than your own.<br /><br />What I love about Verne's works such as the Mysterious Island and the 500 Millions of the Beguma is that this is used as a vehicle for some deeper or more interesting messages. Here, the main \\"deeper\\" message is the study of Nemo as a recluse from society - a kind of conscienscious objector (or even hater of humanity if you will), surrounded by his cold machine-like submarine and the predator-like amoral underwater world. In the hands of most writers, this would be sci-fi schlock and it is only Verne that makes it into a good book - but this should not be the work he is renowned for.<br /><br />This book is actually the 2nd in a trilogy, the 1st being In Search of the Castaways and the 3rd being Mysterious Island and I reckon they get progressively better so read the third one!	2005-06-22
US	22952028	R1AF8M5YAQY6R	1404309268	662752680	In Search of the Castaways	Books	3	4	6	N	N	One of the more "trashy" Verne novels	In Search of the Castaways is actually the first book in a triology by Verne, the 2nd being the famous 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea and the 3rd being The Mysterious Island, and, I think that the trilogy shows him improving and evolving as a writer. This means that the last one is the best (and one of my favourites of Verne's) and that this one is the worst. <br /> <br />Of course, like so many of Verne's works, it's still an entertaining adventure. It tells of a story of the search for Captain Grant by his young children, a captain, an eccentric scientist and many others, all aboard the one ship and armed with the classic message in a bottle (with only the latitude of the location, the longitude being erased). So, they try circumnavigate the globe and encounter a great deal of environs, people and nature. This is Verne at his descriptive best but in this book, the descriptions become overbearing as he goes on for pages and pages (even more than usual). Also, as an Australian [although I know this was before the 20th century but still...] his descriptions of the continent are a bit cliched and probably rely on his contemporary audience never having been more than 2000km away from Paris. <br /> <br />Yes, there's the usual betrayal, triumph and tragedy which makes it a good children's book. But it has no finer detail that some of his more mature works have. If you want something that will make you think (beyond the escapism and armchair travel aspects of Verne's books - which is certainly a legitimate and worthwhile reason for those books), try the Mysterious Island. <br /> <br />Finally, I did not read the book in this edition so I don't know anything about this specific one.	2005-06-22
US	22952028	R39AOV7G68VPOV	B0008652HM	380258338	The giant cat;: Or, The quest of Aoun and Zouhr,	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A good sequel more suitable for children	I read Rosny's \\"Quest for Fire\\" and this, its sequel several times as a child and found them both to be good adventures, lively and imaginative with respect to their prehistoric setting. The Giant Cat is about Auon (the son of the main character of Quest for Fire) and his friend Zouhr who end up leaving their tribal lands and discovering a far-away land with plentiful resources - a kind of paradise. During their journey, they establish a connection with a giant cave lion, whose friendship provides a good contrast to the treacherous and malignant nature of people, whether their original tribe or other enemies. This makes it an interesting and not totally superficial read. <br /> <br />However, thinking back, it would probably be too straightforward for adult readers, so it's best for children.	2005-05-30
US	22952028	R2RP8R8U8R0YIR	034530067X	90748429	Quest for Fire	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Great largely as a children's book	I remember reading this book as a child several times and loving it. It had a raw sense of action, as the prehistoric story that tells of a tribe who had its fire extinguished in an enemy raid (a major tragedy in those times) and of three friends who set off on a quest to recover the fire from elsewhere. What follows is like a prehistoric Odyssey, as they encounter a whole range of threats both human, animal and natural - and put their physical characteristics as well as their pre-modern thinking to the ultimate test. Looking back, it's not such a profound book, and is probably best enjoyed by children as I did. In this case, it is a wonderful read about the dawn of what we know as humanity. The sequel Le Felin Geant (the Giant Cat in English) about the next generation would also fall in this category. However, as an adult reader, I think there are more thought-provoking examples of prehistoric fiction (namely Before Adam by Jack London).	2005-05-29
US	22952028	R3L25KKXM1HLHC	2235001378	774909705	Vamireh: Roman des temps primitifs, suivi de Les Xipehuz (Les Romans de la prehistoire) (French Edition)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Unremarkable	I read this as a kid and looking over the pages of the novella, no amazing or memorable images spring to mind. The story is of a prehistoric man who is separated from his tribe and alone faces the elements, the cruelty of nature and the treachery of people (in the guise of other tribes). <br /> <br />Although it provides an interesting picture of a prehistoric society, it is nowhere as interesting and well-written as Rosny's other two prehistoric novels - The Quest for the Fire and its sequel The Cave Lion. These are great to follow and really make you get involved with the characters and think about the essence of human nature in terms of what we share with our ancestors.  <br /> <br />This book however was just a story.	2005-05-21
US	22952028	R2NGC7EF4S2N47	0891906517	829601022	Before Adam	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Amazing and unusual piece of prehistoric fiction	I agree wholeheartedly that this is a very unique and interesting work (it's hard to even call it a novel or pin it down to another genre). The book is about a modern day protagonist who has nightmares about prehistoric life. As he becomes an adult, he posits a theory that these are the biological remnants of the experience of his distant prehistoric ancestor.  <br /> <br />He pieces together the story from his dreams and what comes out is this book - a detailed and very graphic portayal of life before people were \\"people\\". Reading this, you are plunged into a whole different world, where the inhabitants are somewhere between people and the primate-ancestor on the evolutionary scale. It is an amazingly harsh and cruel existence with a truly \\"primitive\\" society. And yet, we get to love some of the central characters, empathise with them and marvel at this novel's description of the seeds or the birth of what we see as humanity in terms of resourcefulness and compassion. <br /> <br />The work also has a psychological and philosophical aspect as the modern day narrator wrestles with his \\"second I\\" and what his connection to his ancestor means to his identity. I've read several good prehistoric fiction works and this is the best - certainly the most profound - it really makes you think and amazes you.	2005-05-14
US	22952028	R2L59M7DKCL73D	0312341385	169179100	The Borgia Bride: A Novel	Books	3	12	16	N	N	Has much potential but ends up merely "readable"	This historical novel covers an interesting period in Italian, Papal and European history - the reign of Pope Alexander VI and his infamous family - the Borgias. He truly re-defined the idea of Pope by fathering several children and publically proclaiming them as his, placing an immense importance on the worldly with his accumulation of riches and political alliances, his sexual escapades and his brutal dispatching of anyone who stood in his way (a trait shared by his son Cesare Borgia).    This makes for some colourful reading - all the more so as the novel is told from the point of view of Sancha of Aragon - an outsider and a strong woman who is married off to one of the pope's sons. Soon, she finds herself in Rome, smack in the middle of the evil and the machinations, which lead her into a cesspool of the worst human nature has to offer.    However, the actual novel falls quite short of what it could have been. True, it was not intended as some \\"high literature\\" and it doesn't have to be. But many parts of it read like some trashy, melodramatic thriller (especially the sex scenes). The hard thing is, the historical period really was like that! But the approach should have been less Mills-and-Boon to make the novel more.     A nice read, and it does give an unyielding picture of the horrors of the period and will probably inspire interest in that chapter of history - but a great historical novel it ain't...	2005-05-08
US	22952028	RSQ2BYY29KAU	009927454X	523621984	Midnight In The Garden Of Good And Evil: A Savannah Story	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Amazing "anthropological study" of Savannah	This book is almost a unique genre - it is a combination of non-fiction (written by a journalist, all supposedly true at least basically) with a fictionalised element of Berendt's writing which switches from history to anecdote to his own experiences or ramblings.<br /><br />The book itself is based on his experiences in Savannah, Georgia. In his numerous visits there, he meets a piano player with shifty finances who hosts tour guides of his private house, an African American transvestite with a good degree of Southern charm, a disturbed entrepreneur who everyone thinks is capable of poisoning the town water supply and other truly Savannian characters. After a more descriptive part, the book goes on to cover what was one of Savannah's most public murder cases, involving several of the \\"Savannian characters\\" he has met.<br /><br />The whole thing is presented very interestingly and highlights the colourful (and occasionally horrible) nature of Savannah as a society. This is why I think of it as an anthropological study in semi-novel form. Just like the anthropologist goes to a \\"remote\\" tribal society to study their customs, so Berendt goes to the truly-reclusive Savannah and finds out about voodoo witchery, the vicious politics of historical restoration, social customs and the inescapable elements of bigotry and self-righteousness both in the general and \\"polite\\" society.<br /><br />So read it - it'll amuse, entertain and provoke you (especially about the similarity between a supposedly \\"modern\\" society and one that National Geographic correspondents go to study) and tell a story of power, money, betrayal, lust and all that with the added bonus of it being true...	2005-05-07
US	22952028	R10GZKKJNL8V70	037575766X	804779086	Dialogue Concerning the Two Chief World Systems: Ptolemaic and Copernican	Books	5	34	34	N	N	Feels like it should required reading for everyone...	During the [in]famous controversy of Galileo and the Church, the actual point of contention was this very work which Galileo published. In the Dialogue, he was supposed to set forth arguments for and agains the Ptolemaic worldview (the unmoving earth in the centre of the universe) and the Copernican (the earth and other planets going around the sun). This book does that, and brilliantly, showing Galileo's resourcefulness as a scientist, philosopher (at least to an extent!) and writer. The charge against him was that rather than being even-handed, the book was clear support of Copernicanism. This is a non-obvious topic but what is obvious is the importance and magnificence of the work in terms of both the subject matter (the importance of the structure of the universe) and method (a colourful dialogue containing heated debate which spans literally dozens of arguments for and against each system).<br /><br />The work has 3 characters: Salviati who is a Copernican, Simplicio who is an Aristotelian and follower of the Ptolemaic system, and Sagredo, a non-affiliated but intelligent person. They meet and debate over 4 days. The first deals with the question of whether the substance of the heavens is fundamentally different to the earth as well as some other fundamental assertions of Aristotelianism. The second deals with the earth's daily rotation. The third is about the alleged yearly orbit of the earth around the sun. The fourth (considered by Galileo to be the crown of his argument - which is all the more endearing as it is wrong) is about the cause of the tides.<br /><br />Reading this is especially interesting because [almost!] all of us believe that the earth goes around the sun, so it's easy to just approach this simplistically. But the reality is, it was an actual matter of debate, as the book shows. And no, Galileo does not *prove* the earth moves (contrary to the blurb at the back of the book), rather he proposes some very good arguments. Reading them criticallywas great at making me question things I consider fundamental.<br /><br />As per the edition, it contains a very good, readable translation along with Galileo's margin notes and good footnotes which unfortunately aren't matched to the body text so you have to flip forward and back. The only other disappointment was Einstein's simplistic yay-Galileo-boo-obviously-stupid-Church-and-Aristotelianism introduction. Other than that, it's great great great! An absolute milestone in human thought.	2005-05-02
US	22952028	R3QFDAJ04ALW15	0140441824	961689350	Procopius: The Secret History (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	11	12	N	N	amazing historically, humanitarian-ly and literarily	This is one of THE classic primary sources from the Byzantine empire. It was written by Procopius who was the emperor Justinian's offician chronicler. And indeed, in the official histories according to Procopius, Justinian is the holy and wise emperor who could do no wrong. Unable to give his real opinion (or at least the flip side of the coin to any of Justinian's achievements) in this state-sanctioned propaganda, Procopius went on to write a \\"Secret History\\" aimed for publication after Justinian's death. <br /> <br />The result is something that reads like an ancient tabloid (see his descriptions on the sexual perversions of Justinian's wife Theodora!), an endless tirade of hyperbole, rhetoric as Procopius claims Justinian to be literally the son of a demon, purposely intent on bringing havoc on Byzantium and as a vicious SOB. It is here that the reader can dismiss the whole thing as the rantings of a lunatic who had a personal grudge against Justinian (which is true). But this does not make it a worthless document. <br /> <br />Firstly, it's genuinely interesting. A quick read made more lively by the extreme rhetoric describing Justinian's viciousness and greed - which is different to many other more \\"methodical\\" Byzantine sources. Secondly as you read it, you really do get a good look at some parts of Byzantine life, from prostitution to constant legal disputes over wills in the aristocracy to the attempts to revive/keep up the notion of a Roman empire.  <br /> <br />Thirdly and most importantly, I see Procopius in this book as more of a political commentator rather than a historian. The text does read like a modern day op-ed piece criticising a contemporary reader. I did not expect to find in the authoritarian and dogmatic world of Byzantium a voice like Procopius - who opposes torture (even of \\"heretics\\"), who thinks that women should marry who they love and who even opposed Justinian's persecutions of the Jews. All of these things make him a unique voice in his era and his work an important milestone in the history of human rights. <br /> <br />Yes, he certainly does exaggerate. But there's no question that a lot of it is due to Justinian really being a murdering SOB and Procopius having a totally different worldview. So, besides being an interesting read, the Secret History revealed to me much about our own world and the ideas of authority, dissent and human rights - not bad for a \\"historical\\" work!	2005-04-30
US	22952028	R2NW0KPFQTKY5R	0140441697	325539792	Fourteen Byzantine Rulers: The Chronographia of Michael Psellus (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Informative, erudite and biased	Michael Psellus was an 11th century Byzantine scholar, historian and member of the court. After the emperor Basil II, there followed a host of emperors and empresses from the Macedonian house. It is widely beleived that their collective rule contained much mismanagement, as they were more interested in (empty) learning, ritual and intrigues concerning their city of Constantinople, while ignoring the international political and military predicament of the Byzantine state.  <br /> <br />Psellus's Chronographia is his attempt to write a history of these rulers (the Macedonian house as well as the two following houses of Comnenus and Ducas) while utilising a more classical Greek historiography and methodology. The work can be seen as part of the Byzantine \\"Golden Age\\" where learning, literature and the arts became increasingly important. This is reflected in the work - it is full of quite dense narrative styles, literary allusions and other fragments of Greek learning. However, being written by such a versatile historian, it does contain a detailed and intelligent description of the Byzantine rulers and their works. <br /> <br />The issue of bias comes from the fact that Psellus was himself involved in the politics for much of his life, and this is quite obvious, especially towards the end of the work where he launches into a vomit-like praise of the last few rulers. Also, he was himself part of the scholars so he can also be accused of many of the failings as his contemporary emperors and empresses. <br /> <br />So why read this book, if you're not a historian? It is an erudite journey into a very different world. Written by someone with some definite opinions as to what history, learning and politics are, it opens to us the world of the Byzantine \\"Rennaisance\\" scholars, philosophers and politicians. Despite providing a whole heap of genuinely well-thought out and careful history, on a wider scale, it provides a Byzantine counterpart to the European Rennaisance man inPsellus, and shows a great deal of the power, versatility and bias of the human.	2005-04-30
US	22952028	RT2TK1WRU235M	0486266885	732800244	The Strange Case of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	3	4	13	N	N	Nothing special	While many extol the supposed virtues of this novella as either a great gothic story, or insightful social commentary, I found neither. Rather, it is a tale of Dr Jekyll, a man who invents a potion that allows him to transform himself into a more assertive, albeit fiendish being (Mr. Hyde) for a small period of time where his original personality is suppressed. These periods grow longer as Jekyll loses control etc. etc. It's not a bad concept but I found it not to be much more deep than that - it seemed kind of on the same level as spin-off versions of the concept, like the film \\"The Mask\\". <br /> <br />This had the potential to be a much more punchy, psychological story but psychology is not Stevenon's special trademark. The result is simply a good (not great) and not particularly memorable novella - at least it wasn't memorable for me.	2005-04-24
US	22952028	R1MFON2PIZ2S9D	0884119041	796630750	Dick Sands the Boy Captain	Books	4	17	17	N	N	Some classic, topical Verne.	Like many of the more famous Verne books, this has been seen as largely a children's book. While it is less \\"adult\\" than many of Verne's other works, it can be enjoyed by adults too. Also, the content is certainly not suitable for a particularly young audience. <br /> <br />The story is of Dick Sands - a 15 year old crew member on a ship with an eclectic collection of people on board during this particular voyage. After a tragedy, he is left to run the ship himself. They eventually run ashore and (thinking they are in South America) meet a man called Harris, who generously offers to be their guide in getting back to \\"civilisation\\". However, he has more sinister plans, as it turns out they are actually in Equatorial Africa at the height of the slave trade. Capitalising on their delusion, Harris betrays them and the party is enslaved. The rest of the book is an account of their (especially Dick's) attempts at resistance and escape. <br /> <br />The book is great at showing the maturity, courage and resourcefulness of Dick, a classic case of having to grow up soon and doing very well at it. It also offers a shocking and brutal portraying of the slave trade (which is why it's not suitable for the very young), largely based on the accounts of the explorers Stanely and Livingstone. It is here that I think the book suffers a setback, as Verne overdoes it in an oft-too-dydactic way. It is understandable due to the fact that he comes from a context of a newly-found French liberalism and in his time, slavery was a more recent issue in terms of the US and other Western countries. So, the level rhetoric detracts from the book for a modern reader. <br /> <br />Still, it's an unyielding and sublime account of the unspeakable horrors of the Atlantic slave trade and a good adventure story too, so an enjoyable and accessible work of Verne here.	2005-04-19
US	22952028	RBKU2WS5XPG9S	0686559266	959673861	La\Jangada	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Not Verne's best	This book was, like most of Verne's books, interesting, creative and had the spark and spirit of technology, adventure and knowledge. But in all these areas, there are many other ones by him that I found more enjoyable. <br /> <br />The Jangada is a story of a family which goes on a trip down the Amazon on a raft-like structure. They meet several people along the way one of which (Torres) ends up possessing a secret about the family patriarch who gets arrested and tried for an alleged crime from his past. The whole family, and us readers, are shocked as the patriarch (Joam) has changed quite a bit since his youth. Eventually, the only chance he has at rehabilitation is a note written by Torres in a cypher. The second part of the story follows the family's attempts to decipher the note and clear their beloved. <br /> <br />Verne is unique in combining early sci-fi with big ideas on society and people. In this one, however, the only things that seem to come up are the nature of justice, and only briefly. As for the story, while it is good, it's comparitively superficial and not nearly as entertaining as I found some others (eg. The Mysterious Island) to be. <br /> <br />Twill be enjoyable for Verne's fans looking for something obscure, but there are better ones out there.	2005-04-10
US	22952028	R1ZAB8FIIS3DZO	0553096060	799625292	Sein Language	Books	2	5	8	N	N	Occasionally funny but fairly thin	This book is a collection of Seinfeld's brand of humour, arranged in paragraphs and, to an extent, topics. There is a problem with such a format. If you're a great fan of Seinfeld, chances are, you'll know most of the material in the book (a big part of it is the same as some of Seinfeld's comedy bits in the TV show). If you're not a fan, then I think that it's best to see most comedians live, and if a book is some attempt at a reproduction of their act, it's not nearly as funny. <br /> <br />From my experience, the best comedy books take advantage of the book form to provide lots of content that's different to a live act (for instance humour involving/incorporating images). For a purely verbal, observational style, nothing beats personal presence. <br /> <br />For maximum hilarity, watch Seinfeld in his show or in his act, or read a more involved comedy book. This one, while it has its moments, has neither aspects of the two.	2005-04-04
US	22952028	R2IATAMT8FI7UR	0192835556	938864943	Kidnapped and Catriona (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Two enthralling adventures from Stevenson	Both of these books are part of Stevenson's historical adventures that are often considered to be great as children's books but can be just as easily read by adults. In Kidnapped, the orphaned narrator finds himself deprived of his inheritance by his bastardly uncle, who after having failed to kill him arranges his kidnapping. However, on the boat, his character begins to show as he leads a mutiny and escape with Alan, a man he befriends on the ship. They find themselves in the political and military turmoil of the Jacobite conflict Scotland, and in their wanderings encounter much danger, intrigue and hardship. Catriona is the sequel, where the narrator falls in love with a lady whose father is less than honourable, adding a sustained romance to the melting pot of events. <br /> <br />Stevenson's narration and style may not be as classically topical and atmospheric like Scott's historical novels, however these two are a good read with fast-paced adventure and intrigue with the troubles of Scotland and greater Europe in the background.	2005-03-27
US	22952028	R1I3OZTAAMMZ0I	1878941186	202838096	The seven underground kings ; and, The fiery god of the Marrans (Tales of magic land)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Another great sequel	For those who don't know, the Wizard of Oz tale was adapted, translated and very-slightly rewritten by Volkov for a Russian audience. So popular was the book with the children that he continued to write five (as far as I know) sequels, using the same characters and setting, but this time for obvious reasons, he was the one that made up the story and gave it direction. <br /> <br />This volume contains the third and fourth books in the series. I've only read the second of these two tales, but as far as sequels and childrens' series go, this is a great one. In Fiery God of the Marrans, we again meet with Urfin Juice, the villain of the second book in the series. After his failed attempt at domination of Oz, he is dejected until he ends up saving a giant eagle. With the help of this eagle, he comes to the Marrans, an \\"undeveloped\\" and \\"savage\\" race in Oz. By teaching them neat things like fire and architecture, he sets himself up as their god, and manipulates them to eventually wreak havoc on Oz. <br /> <br />In this book, the hero from Kansas is not Ellie (Volkov's adaptation of the name Dorothy from the original Wizard of Oz) but her younger sister Ennie and her friend Tim. Once again, news of Urfin's capture of much of Oz reaches Kansas and they go off to Oz on their magical mules and eventually try to help the old friends of Ellie from the Wizard of Oz to overthrow and defeat Urfin. <br /> <br />On the surface, the plot is very similar to the second book where Urfin is introduced. However, it is a testament to the good writing of this fourth book that it does seem very original and not at all like the second. This is largely due to the added thematic richness - as the world grows more complex, Volkov treats his audience as more grown up. The book explores ideas of dictatorship, knowledge and the cult of personality - all important things in every age - and it's done in Volkov's typical, fun way. <br /> <br />Although I haven't read the other book in this volume andcan't guarantee the quality of the translation, the story is a great one to be read by children of many backgrounds and languages.	2005-03-20
US	22952028	R1BLUZQEFWCAL9	5816100246	428982620	Volshebnik Izumrudnogo Goroda	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Amazing despite being a ripoff	I remember this book (the title of which means \\"The Magician of the Emerald City\\") from my childhood and it was the Russian version of the Wizard of Oz. Not the equivalent, but an actual translation/adaptation by Volkov of Baum's classic tale. The book was an instant hit in the USSR and became famous enough for Volkov to write some five (perhaps more, I'm only aware of five) sequels (obviously they were original).<br /><br />Obviously, I don't know much about the original Wizard of Oz, not having read it, but this version is written in a lively and adventurous Russian, and Volkov does a great job of transporting his young readers into the magical world where witches and flying monkeys are the staple. Also, this book has (or at least the edition I read, I can't guarantee for this one) cannonical illustrations, as Volkov teamed up with a famous illustrator to produce colourful and emerald-filled magic.<br /><br />In terms of similarities, the names have been altered slightly (the Winkies become the Miguni which is Russian for winking), but not as much as many other Soviet adaptations. Usually, many features are changed to make the story fit the Soviet ideology better but in this case, the book is universal in sticking to the original Wizard of Oz so it can just be read without explanation in a post-Soviet era. The characters are the same and there is an added tale with a cannibalistic ogre.<br /><br />A great version of a magical tale that's still very suitable and accessible for young Russian-speaking readers.	2005-03-14
US	22952028	R1HYUY0H99U9H2	5900986039	792971993	Urfin Dzhius I Ego Dereviannye Soldaty	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A great sequel to the Russian Wizard of Oz	For those who don't know, the Wizard of Oz tale was adapted, translated and very-slightly rewritten by Volkov for a Russian audience. So popular was the book with the children that he continued to write five (as far as I know) sequels, using the same characters and setting, but this time for obvious reasons, he was the one that made up the story and gave it direction. <br /> <br />This is the second book in the series (so it's the immediate sequel to the Wizard of Oz). In English, it would be called \\"Urfin Juice and his Wooden Soldiers\\". Urfin Juice, a grumpy carpenter from Oz stumbles on some magic plant that makes his wooden creations come alive. Like many a grumpy and anti-social man with such a level of power, he builds an army of sociopathic wooden soldiers and begins his physical tirade against the world. He quickly injures the world immensely, for instance he captures the Emerald City and imposes a less-than-benevolent regime. It's up to Ellie (Volkov changed Dorothy's name in the adaptation, I imagine because Dorothy is very hard for a Russian speaker to pronounce) to travel back to Oz and save it, with the aid of her friends from the last book. <br /> <br />This is a great read in that it has the same level of adventure and good-natured humour that the original has. Furthermore, it can be enjoyed as just a kids book - unlike many Soviet era books, this series seems to have escaped much of the didactic (and socialist) propaganda, which makes it very accessible to modern Russian-speaking children. Overall, a very fun sequel.	2005-03-14
US	22952028	R1QB4EHZYVPDWV	1589635450	508060461	The Old Genie Hottabych	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A great book AND a good historical artifact	I read this in Russian as a kid and like many good children's books, this can be enjoyed by people of various ages on varying levels. The story is simple - Volka, a boy in the \\"Golden\\" era of the Soviet Union finds the classic magic lamp with Hottabych the genie, his new-found willing servant. However, it turns out that the society the old genie has gotten himself into does not make much sense to him, resulting in unpredictable, funny and weird moments.  <br /> <br />There is a central strand of Soviet propaganda in the book. Hottabych is of course painted with the exaggerated backwardness of someone from a pre-communist, \\"superstitious\\" and unscientific society: he has trouble coming to terms with the seeming lack of private property, the alleged equality of women and the scientific advances (such as the knowledge of the earth's roundness, which in reality) made since his glory days in the 1001 Nights tales and the lack of slavery. <br /> <br />However, as can be expected, with the guidance and friendship of the boy, Hottabych eventually overcomes some of his cranky closed-mindedness and starts showing an interest in the scientific, educational and cultural aspects of the USSR around him, so the socialist ideal triumphs over Middle-eastern romanticism. <br /> <br />What good might there ever be in such a blatantly propagandist book (one which pained me when looking over it for this review when I discovered some of the more sinister unintentional references)? Well, it's still a great children's story, told by an author who respects his young readers enough to use skillful satire and other \\"grown-up\\" techniques. It's also endearing, as we get close to the well-meaning but old and outdated Hottabych having adventures alongside Volka, the sober youngster. Finally, it really does provide an absolutely fascinating time-capsule-like view into the classical Soviet worldview and what it thought of other cultures, places and ideas. <br /> <br />An great work of Soviet 1950simaginative nostalgia that doubles up as a fun read for kids as well as a potential PhD topic on Soviet values.	2005-03-07
US	22952028	R8WEYSIFQ2HSM	0345350685	780069179	The Autobiography of Malcolm X: As Told to Alex Haley	Books	5	3	4	N	N	One of the most important books I've read.	I totally agree with the Time magazine's characterisation of this book as being in the top 10 most important non-fiction books in the 20th century. Certainly it is a great autobiography, and although I haven't read many others as it's not my preferred genre, I can hardly imagine another one being so poignant and sharp.<br /><br />People's knowledge of someone as controversial as Malcolm X will come from a whole range of different and patched sources. As a precursor to this book, I recommend the film (by Spike Lee), not because I think it's somehow \\"objective\\" but because it is based on this book (although it's very interesting to see the differences). Malcolm has been described as both a fanatic and a savior, as a racist/anti-Semite/hater and as a man who has dedicated his life to freeing his race. It's a humbling and rewarding exercise to leave your pre-conceptions about who and what he was behind and read about what he says on his life of street-hustling, drugs and crime, his prison conversion to Islam, his ministry, breaking away and the forming of his final beliefs and goals.<br /><br />Personally, by the end, I found him to be strangely compelling. In my opinion, a lot of what he says comes off as offensive to many because he words things so strongly. However, after penetrating his rhetoric, I got the picture of an amazing man who has come out of both apathy and black supremacy to emerge as one who truly cared about justice for all. I wonder what he would have accomplished with his new-found views had he not been killed.<br /><br />Most readers will disagree with a lot of things he says, or think that he exaggerates. Whether that's true or not, this book is an entire cross-section of 20th century African-American history and society that most people do not know much about. Furthermore, his ideas (in terms of things such as the loss of identity) can echo through to many other peoples and cultures. And it's amazing how many things he says are actually not that outrageous if you think about it!<br /><br />I tend to agree with those who think this should almost be required reading. Malcolm was an extremely intelligent, outspoken and passionate human being and no matter what you may think of his views, this book is THE 20th Century tome of mutual respect and the fight for justice.	2005-03-06
US	22952028	R247BVWP4FXSTO	0894712063	5822780	De Historia Et Veritate Unicornis/on the History   and Truth of the Unicorn (English and Latin Edition)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A great find for all unicorn admirers	This is a beautifully composed and illustrated manuscript from an obscure monastery in late Medieval Europe, combining \\"Medieval style mysticism\\" with \\"Renaissance style inquiry\\" to present a work dedicated to the arcane lore of the unicorn. Selected pages of the manuscript are reproduced (with amazing drawings) and the Latin translated. What I liked most was the layout and atmosphere of the drawings and text which makes a few thousand words and dozen pictures into a great book. A great find!	2005-03-06
US	22952028	R5E8BE0DROUWL	0553275860	909371764	Narcissus and Goldmund	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Fabulous, but with flaws (4.5 stars really)	This novel is a philosophical and allegorical story of the friendship between two exact opposites, one staying in the medieval monastery to pursue his career of deprivation, intellectualism, scholarship and logic, the other becoming a vagabond who wonders from landscape to landscape, trouble to trouble, love affair to love affair. The two are almost personifications of opposites, but this only strenthens their friendship built on differences and ensures that despite years of separation, they continually think of each other and enrich each other's life through a different worldview.<br /><br />This is one of Hesse's most famous novels, and yes, it does have flaws. I agree with some readers who found the whole thing to drag a bit too long. It's hard for a writer to keep up a philosophical work, especially an allegory without giving the impression that they are struggling to continually be profound and yet failing. This occasionally happens in the book. This is because the picaresque in the middle drags on without continuing the idea of the two characters' friendship as they are separated.<br /><br />Despite all this, I found the best thing about this was Hesse's style as it's magical, filled with mystic wonder and yet very penetrating. The problems faced by the characters about the way in which we should pursue meaning in our lives, about the balance of opposites (especially the \\"mind\\" and \\"soul\\") as well as the meaning of science and art, are so universal that their mere presence in this work gives it an atmosphere of grandness. But to me, this work is mainly an account of an amazing friendship.<br /><br />The edition I read was another translation which I couldn't find in the catalogue, so I'm not sure which aspects of the book might be better or worse because of this being a different translation.<br /><br />While many people may dislike this, and I don't consider it a masterpiece, it is moving and thoughtprovoking.	2005-02-26
US	22952028	R1NJ44O7ZBKPD2	3522174399	667345559	The Little Witch. ( Ab 6 J.).	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Great for a relatively young audience	This children's book is the story of a \\"young\\" witch in Germany who is ostracised by her sisters for being a \\"bad\\" witch. She decides to become a good witch which she thinks means doing good deeds and using her spells and magic for good. And so begin her series of adventures, with each chapter relating how she stumbles upon and rights some wrong or does some good deed, all in her quirky manner and with a cynical and wise raven at her side. <br /> <br />The didactic nature may be a bit over the top for older children but there's still fun exploration of the traditional fairy tale landscape but subverted with the idea of a \\"good\\" witch. A good humoured if simple book. Oh and my edition had fabulous illustrations which were half the fun of reading this as a kid.	2005-02-16
US	22952028	R3AN1TJDPLC63N	2070406717	508650835	En Magellanie (Folio) (French Edition)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	An atypical but good Verne work	Jules Verne is commonly associated with adventure, travel and technology. None of these things are present in this work but rather it is more of a social commentary. The novel takes place on a desolate island off the southern tip of South America where a man has become a recluse from society. His solitude is interrupted by a shipwreck on his island whereby an entire ship of people of different nationalities and backgrounds. He helps them and in the survival situation evolves into somewhat of a leader. However, trying to rebuild a type of society on the island leads to many of society's ills and violent tragedy. <br /> <br />This can be seen as a more mature work of Verne, or a reminder that many classic \\"adventure\\" authors were not nearly as superficial as they seem if judged only by their commonly known works (in this case Around the World in 80 Days). The novel is just as good as any modern \\"dystopias\\" that show society through a magnifying glass - it's poignant, atmospheric and contains the classic Verne streak of spiraling plotlines bringing together many ideas.	2005-02-15
US	22952028	R3I4IZNI6GTOP6	0805061770	323177781	From the Holy Mountain: A Journey among the Christians of the Middle East	Books	3	17	31	N	N	Good work largely spoilt by political bias	For a long time William Dalrymple has been regarded by both me and others as a great modern day writer-historian-adventurer, who goes off on quests in the less trodden paths of the world, digs up historical information, makes connections that would have eluded most and then writes about it in a very informative, entertaining, erudite and funny manner. <br /> <br />All of these are true of \\"From the Holy Mountain\\". Here, he decides to follow in the footsteps of a Byzantine monk in order to investigate the history and current status of the Eastern Christian Churches. This he does, going to monasteries of denominations as varied as the Maronites, the Greek and Syrian Orthodox as well as the Copts. He also makes his usual fabulous observations which in this book might be new to many people in terms of the similarities between Eastern Christianity and Islam in terms of ritual as well as the degree that Christianity can be thought of as a Western religion. He does much to broaden the conception and knowledge of most readers about Eastern and general Christianity, as well as indulging us in some kind of off-beat, romantic notion of the various harsh and desolate monasteries and caves in the wasteland deserts of the Middle East, having been (and some still being) inhabited by eccentric recluses from the world. <br /> <br />However, in describing much of the political situation, he lost me. He seemed slightly anti-Israel from \\"In Xanadu\\" but here, he shows that he is extremely biased. Although I'm sure many (although I don't know how many) of the persecutions and troubles of the Palestinian Christians described in the book are genuine, the fact that he jokes about his visits with Lebanese warlords and how civilised they were while showing vitriol in the section about the Israeli govenment shows that he is not being very consistent. To me, it undermined many other political statements he made (such as largely blaming the Maronites exclusively for the troubles in Lebanon) forif from everything I know about Israel he was quite selective about the material he chose to include, this could mean he was just as selective and biased about other material. <br /> <br />I still liked the book very much for its descriptions and details of the Eastern monastic lifestyle then and now, but the political bias inserted a sour note. I think whatever your persuasion, if you're interested in the material, it's a great book, just be aware that he is quite biased.	2005-02-14
US	22952028	R1XJFQHW4KBLQK	0142000868	631117873	Thinks . . .	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Interesting but not groundbreaking	The story is simple, Ralph is a rock-star style cognitive scientist, who is married. Helen is a widow novelist who comes to the university Ralph works in to teach a creative writing course. Attraction follows, as well as a clash of worldviews. <br /> <br />\\"Thinks...\\" contains a number of interesting and enjoyable aspects. There is the satire of academia, the gap between arts/sciences and the alleged lifestyle of the educated English. It also contains a number of lay-level expositions of consciousness, from a cognitive science/artificial intelligence perspective. Finally, it does a good job of showing an example of the tangled nature of actions and thoughts in a world of dynamic sexual relationships. These three things I think are the strongest aspects of the book and they make it worthwhile enough to read but they certainly don't make it lifechanging. <br /> <br />For starters, the varying text types, including recordings, emails, journals, present-tense narrative etc, from more than one point of view gave me the air of novelty for the sake of novelty. It felt like one of those things that might be fun, but way over too the top to be much more than that. The actual musings about consciousness didn't tie into the actual characters and their behaviour that much. Perhaps Lodge was doing a subtle manifestation of mind/body dualism, but the novel about the academic cavortings and the one about a clash of contemporary worldviews didn't blend enough in this book for me to like it more. FInally the cognitive science stuff was quite superficial. Again, Lodge may be mocking Ralph's \\"scientific soundbyte\\" style but the book reminded me of Sophie's World in that it looked like it attempted to present some \\"theoretical\\" things amidst a more popular tale, and the layering was just too forced. <br /> <br />So it's still interesting and Lodge writes well (although I haven't read any other works of his so can't compare) and it is often funny but it's not fabulous.	2005-02-02
US	22952028	R204PAJOYC28WE	0679723161	636015448	Lolita	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Beautifully ugly	Lolita will always be controversial. It is the narration of a bright, occasionally witty and intellectual man who becomes obsessed with a 12 year old \\"nymphette\\" and involved with her some time later, leading to extraordinary pleasure, suffering, abuse, manipulation, betrayal and tragedy. Of course, the idea of Lolita being some kind of \\"dangerous\\" book because it \\"promotes\\" pedophilia is just as ludicrous as saying that Dostoyevski's Crime and Punishment promotes murder. However, it is seeing why this book packs such a punch that reveals what I think are its strengths. <br /> <br />Nabokov insists that his work is not a piece of didactic fiction and I agree. Many people who have read the book comment on the interplay with the reader hating Humbert the narrator for what he is doing but still finding him witty and charming. Myself, I did not find him charming at all, but rather it was a tale so ugly that it became beautiful. The poetic manner of Humbert describing his most horrifying passions makes it seem like a modern-day story a little bit in the traditions of Greek or Shakespearean drama, with vibrant, exaggerated emotions and situations and a pathos that is interestingly portrayed amongst a \\"banal\\" landscape of being on the road in the US in the late 40s, with motels and the like. <br /> <br />Nabokov is known for a large amount of layers in his fiction and Lolita does not disappoint, being a semiotician's wet dream. Even Humbert himself says that his account would prove fascinating to his psychiatrists and the legal system (he's writing whilst institutionalised). Rather than go into how wonderfully symbolic the book is in its alleged portraying of Old Europe debauching America (or the other way around), I want to share how Lolita got me thinking about truth. Many novels have an \\"unreliable narrator\\" - it's a good way of creating good fiction judging by the many other works using this technique. Here though, we have a narrator who is more even unreliable than most, AND who is self-reflexive about it, perfectly understanding that his relationship with Lolita was immoral and harmful. This means the whole book is a tangle in which we can try and reconstruct what \\"happened\\" and what was Humbert's \\"subjectivity\\" (and the book wonderfully blurs the line). The most horrible moments I found were ones where the true monstrosity of Humbert is exposed briefly, for a few lines, before returning to a more poetic/subjective narration. <br /> <br />If ever I was to become a boring advocate of \\"you have to read these books to know what the 20th century meant in literature,\\" I'd include Lolita amongst the top of the list. It's confronting, complex and very entertaining.	2005-01-26
US	22952028	R1F4T2TW0AQNDA	184391008X	489174445	Heart of Darkness (Hesperus Classics)	Books	2	1	3	N	N	Just dull	Many people find the writing style of those who are considered \\"classic\\" writers to be dull. I'm not one of those people and have enjoyed a large number of classics. However, in this case, I did find the book to be boring. The aim was to create a psychological exploration of Kurtz - a man on the \\"frontier\\" in Africa - an exploration that shows the extremes of horror and despair amongst varying circumstances, and one that unfolds alongside a physical exploration of Africa. <br /> <br />This aim was not achieved as I found it just too dreary. It's not that the pacing was slow - plenty of great works have slower pacing. It's that it was slow and the actual writing didn't make up for it. Perhaps Conrad's other stuff is better.	2005-01-19
US	22952028	R161GA9K3IGPV2	0486266842	82761703	The Turn of the Screw (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Deliciously vague	The Turn of the Screw has been hailed as one of THE classic gothic/ghost stories. I read it recently and agree that it's brilliant - but not in the way some might expect. Henry James is not an easy writer to read nowadays when every author seems to aim to \\"hook\\" the reader from the first page. DON'T read this long short story NOR any other James story or novel if you expect some fast-paced, action-packed thriller. What you will get instead is a very sharply descriptive style that uses language to convey the complex psychology and moods of the characters and events. This kind of works well for a story about a governess and three other main people in pre-20th-century England, in an isolated estate. <br /> <br />The story is simple - a man has two nephews who have become orphans. He lives in the city and isn't really interested so he hires a new goveness (the narrator) after the old one dies. The gonverness is convinced that the estate is haunted and that the ghosts are undergoing creepy conspiratorial communications with the two children. <br /> <br />I found the story did freak me out, for the same reason as why it has been analysed so much in terms of psychology or sexuality. While James may not have meant all that people put into the story, it is an amazing study of the perception of propriety and morality and its relationship to our sense perception. Thus, the whole catch of the tale is that it's perfectly ambiguous - everything can be interpreted from at least two very different angles (read to find out which ones!) - but the interpretation also differs depending on which society's conventions we read the story from. <br /> <br />This makes for an fairly complex and unique book - one that told me as a reader more about myself than it did about any silly ghosts - which I think is the mark of good fiction.	2005-01-18
US	22952028	R29E9K7SQ0J85L	0385334540	544523612	Why Not Me?: The Inside Story of the Making and Unmaking of the Franken Presidency	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Franken has a hilarious go at the political process	In this book, we see Franken not as his usual politically-outspoken self but rather as another persona - a ridiculous candidate running for president, and winning in what turns out to be one of the most disasterous 100 first (and only) days of any presidency. Those who disagree with Franken's politics will appreciate the book for making fun of all ends of the spectrum in a way that generally sends up the ridiculous nature of a presidential election. Those who agree with Franken may be disappointed that he mocked everyone. However, reading the book with an open mind will probably cause a great deal of mirth and enjoyment. <br /> <br />The book contains a bunch of sources of Franken's fictional presidency (including fictional press clippings and doctored photos). Even though the second half of the book is not nearly as funny as the first, overall, still a great read.	2005-01-17
US	22952028	R1RJ1IXYNCTPQC	0394757882	945604357	The Plays of Oscar Wilde (Vintage Classics)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	5 great works	Much of Oscar Wilde's public persona can be seen through the plays and reading them it is easy to see why he was so admired, talked about, loathed and scorned. While I don't find him in his plays to be the epitome of wit some make him out to be, it is easy to see how innovative his plays must have been.<br /><br />Despite being funny in a witty kind of way in many places, they also outline if not his beliefs, then at least his beliefs as he presented them to the public. And what I found was a playful, self mocking kind of \\"opulence\\" - where Wilde's supposed aesthesism is not dogmatic but rather to be enjoyed. Thus, we see him participate in society through his characters while mocking society. Another important aspect is that despite his most witty characters (characters one would naturally identify with Wilde) scorning conventional morality, the actual outcome of his plays contains a morality of its own - and one that's quite close to some modern-day libertarians: a happy ending means that people make the best of their circumstances to enjoy themselves and live a happy and fulfilling life in the freedom of pursuing what they want to. Even if this is nothing like what Wilde wanted to convey, it still adds to the plays' reading.<br /><br />I found the actual plays to be quite undifferentiated in that there is nothing that is in one that is completely radical compared to the others - rather, it's good to read them all in order to immerse oneself in that kind of atmosphere for a brief moment. The only exception is Salome, which is very unusual, but I think it's clear that it was intended to be so, and there's something avant-garde about it (especially the refrains about things like the moon scattered throughout).<br /><br />But enough from me, read it and find out part of the reason why Wilde has left such a unique mark on world literature/culture/etc!	2005-01-16
US	22952028	R3E2CP8UTUKVLK	0786931086	162074405	Tantras (Forgotten Realms: The Avatar: Book 2)	Books	2	0	3	N	N	Unmemorable	I read this trilogy ages ago when I was a kid and the fact that I remember so little shows that it was nothing special. Many others have said that the writing style is very ordinary and this is true in that it did not stand out at all. There was some interest in the plot, but in this second book, I do not even remember a single interesting event, and I have a fairly good memory. I guess having read it as a kid means the plot could be interesting to kids but not necessarily adults. <br /> <br />If you are a Forgotten Realms fan (which I'm not, I was given the books) then the added interest of this as a background story as well as connections to the world of the Realms will probably outweight the negative aspects of the book such that it may be worth reading. Otherwise, it's fairly pointless.	2005-01-12
US	22952028	R2VUPNQ42K5YLI	0786931116	879198567	Waterdeep: The Avatar Series, Book III	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Best in the trilogy but still no masterpiece	I read this trilogy ages ago when I was a kid and the fact that I remember so little shows that it was nothing special. Many others have said that the writing style is very ordinary and this is true in that it did not stand out at all. There was some interest in the plot, especially in this third book, because I remember that there was actually some organic action in terms of the resolution of the trilogy, as well as characterisation which seemed to have been better than the previous two books. <br /> <br />If you are a Forgotten Realms fan (which I'm not, I was given the books) then the added interest of this as a background story as well as connections to the world of the Realms will probably outweight the negative aspects of the book such that it may be worth reading. Otherwise, it's fairly pointless to read the trilogy. If this book was stand-alone, it would have been quite good but the trilogy as a whole is less than spectacular.	2005-01-12
US	22952028	R165CLSR0VF49K	0786931051	157059446	Shadowdale (Forgotten Realms: Avatar Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	2	1	5	N	N	Unmemorable	I read this trilogy ages ago when I was a kid and the fact that I remember so little shows that it was nothing special. Many others have said that the writing style is very ordinary and this is true in that it did not stand out at all. There was some interest in the plot (in this book I do remember the battle around Shadowdale to be an interesting section) but I guess having read it as a kid means the plot could be interesting to kids but not necessarily adults. <br /> <br />If you are a Forgotten Realms fan (which I'm not, I was given the books) then the added interest of this as a background story as well as connections to the world of the Realms will probably outweight the negative aspects of the book such that it may be worth reading. Otherwise, it's fairly pointless.	2005-01-11
US	22952028	R243YF3FJGTV6A	0316769487	862964341	The Catcher in the Rye	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Eerie and extreme	Indeed this is a most-famous work which while I did enjoy and do not think it completely overhyped, it wasn't exactly lifechanging. <br /> <br />The book is supposed to be a coming-of-age (whatever that means) one, told as the narration of Holden about the days following him being kicked out of school and going to New York (where his family leaves) but deciding to go on some escapades before he tells his family. <br /> <br />Of course, the book IS quite deep, exploring grief/loss, loneliness, cynicism, adolescence and human connections. However, I didn't really find that I related to Holden all that much. I mean of course there are many similarities between him and every other reader (most people like to think they're genuine and would share Holden's particular dislike of \\"phonies\\"), but I don't agree with a common thread I've heard about the book that it's this classic for growing up and everyong should read it and will totally relate to it. In a very interesting scene in Six Degrees of Separation, the con artist analyses this book and its relation to violence. Perhaps Salinger did not want everyone to exactly relate to Holden. <br /> <br />What I found best and worst about the book was something else - it really creeped me out. It felt like a combination of the film Stand by Me with the novel A Clockwork Orange - bittersweet coming-of-age coupled with psychosis. The fact that Holden felt to me more like a 12 year old trying to act like an adult than a 16 year old, his obvious deep-seated depression and the way topics like sex were treated in many scenes (very interesting when you consider that the book was written in the 50s and looking at it from that perspective changes a lot) made it seem like a nightmare. But that's one of the best strengths of Catcher in the Rye - it will challenge you and get you out of the comfort zone. For me, it showed that societies that attempt to be wholesome often aren't, but rather contain many deep recesses of everything that is uncomfortable and harmful - and Holden found himself in one of those recesses. <br /> <br />A great work that will make you think, and a special treasure if you like debating about the meaning of books.	2005-01-08
US	22952028	R8CI2CQC9H948	0553211757	755691955	Crime and Punishment (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A classic inner landscape description	This is probably Dostoyevsky's most famous novel, and with good reason. It contains his famous features of intense psychological, philosophical and emotional enquiry, coupled with the presentation of suffering, a multi-layered meaning as well as different ideas along with his own Russian Orthodox Christian viewpoint. However, the book is also more accessible than most others. <br /> <br />One of the main reasons is that it has an actual, tangible plot, and can be seen as a piece of crime fiction. The main storyline is Raskolnikov, a poor student in St Petersburgh, who kills an old lady who is a usurer. He spends most of the novel contemplating, reacting, suffering, running and interacting with others as a direct influence and result of his crime. The characters are also unforgettable as Dostoyevsky presents a very chilling picture of the suffering of many people (for instance the poor) in his contemporary, urban Russia. <br /> <br />There is much philosophy in the book, and on that level, this is a mature enough book for there to be no point in trying to get at \\"what the meaning is\\". What is important is just how vividly and strongly the inner world of the characters is portrayed - as an entire landscape of thoughts, desires and interactions.  <br /> <br />While I read Crime and Punishment, I thought that one of the key questions is simply \\"what were the exact reasons for Raskolnikov's crime?\\". The book presents a very interesting range of possible explanations and it is sorting through them that makes the reading personal. However, one philosophical point that seems explicit enough to mention is Dostoyevsky's reaction to Raskolnikov and his \\"circle\\" as examples of a new, \\"atheist/nihilist\\" - but really materialist - schools of throught that were new in Russia at the time. I think one of the hundreds of aims of the book for Dostoyevsky was to show what he saw as the inadequacy of materialism in living your life. Whether you agree or disagree, the book presents whathappens when certain ideas are pushed to the extreme. <br /> <br />Overall, the book isn't too long but a very challenging read, both intellectually and emotionally. But it's absolutely amazing. <br /> <br />As a final note, I read this in the original Russian so I can't make any statements about this particular edition/translation, or any other.	2005-01-05
US	22952028	R3G0V9ZOP3B48L	0679735879	628163864	The Unconsoled	Books	5	6	6	N	N	YES it's extremely frustrating but...	...but that's the point. OK, I lie. In all the books I've read, this one seems to be the most difficult one to try and find what \\"the point\\" is or what the author could have meant - as it could be soooo many things. However, the frustration certainly does seem intentional and the book has a strand that is a ridiculous, at times funny and at others farcical, mockery of the frustrations of \\"modern existence\\" (whatever that means). <br /> <br />Now that I think about it, The Unconsoled is a bit like a philosophico-literary Monty Python sketch stretched out over several hundred pages. In Python, rule 6 is that \\"there is no rule 6\\". In The Unconsoled, the plot is that there is no plot. The narrator is a world-famous pianist preparing for a concert (in which he is expected to save the unnamed European city he's in from a cultural disaster) who encounters and influences dozens  of seriously weird characters and events. <br /> <br />The book is not realistic. One of the first, amazing scenes is a conversation inside a lift (which goes up two floors) that lasts over 8 pages I think. And for me, the scene where the narrator spends an entire chapter trying to find the most dramatic moment to reveal his identity to come to a friend's aid (but failing, always failing) is the most deliciously frustrating piece I've read. <br /> <br />Is this a saga of man/woman's isolation in the postmodern world? A satire on contemporary high culture with all the psychological attachments? A dream/nightmare with Freudian, Jungian or who-knows-what-else connotations? It's unclear but the book will give everyone much to think about. This is not a forgettable novel. <br /> <br />It is very hard reading because Ishiguro does not aim to please the reader - rather, he fights with the reader, he wrestles for hundreds of pages. But often struggle is very productive - here it produced a book that while many pooh-pooh, I think is at least a contender for a masterpiece.	2004-12-29
US	22952028	R35XGVLU0DSKWX	0679731725	247754060	The Remains of the Day	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Takes you to the open spaces of the soul	When I was a kid, I read a children's author talking about writing, and he was up to the usual \\"it's not what you say but how you say it\\" thing that many people bring up when talking about great writing. What he said was the blunt truth - that in many of the world's greates novels, almost nothing happens. Reading this book made me remember this, as it exemplifies good writing as being about the presentation not just plot. And very little happens in terms of storyline. <br /> <br />The story is about an old British butler, at the twilight of his career. After having worked for a very distinguished lord who was disgraced after his death, the estate has been taken over by an American, who represents a newer, less formal, less butler-y world. The book is essentially the buttle-narrator reminiscing about his life while he takes a short road-trip for several reasons, one of which being to visit a woman who he used to work with when his original employer was still around. <br /> <br />The book lovingly mocks the classed and rigid stereotype of \\"proper\\" British society. This is the pre-WWII world that the narrator has lived in and reminisces about. However, during this trip he comes to realise that his life, employer, ethos, calling, professional sense of duty and outlook on life have not been completely fabulous - actually, they have left him a lonely old man who has missed many opportunities to be much happier than he currently is. Obviously, this has much to do with the woman he intends to visit in his trip. <br /> <br />The narration is what makes this such a great read (you can easily read it in a day) - Ishiguro really gets you inside the butler, thinking like him and appreciating and yet being infuriated at his sense of his own place as a butler and person. Unlike many other books which discuss the notion of sacrifice and professional duty and cultures where some are almost expected to give up on the personal, this one does it not in an angry way but in a subtle one,which will truly shake you to the bone if you can relate to the man who was (at least partially) blinded to truth and happiness by professional duty. This makes it an important book. But it's also funny and a great read all round!	2004-12-23
US	22952028	R3PLGOBX84CNDR	0192838423	461386470	The Man in the Iron Mask (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	4	14	16	N	N	This is the end...beautiful friend...	After writing The Three Musketeers and Twenty Years after, Dumas wrote a third installment to the trilogy. It is probably the most controvercial book in the trilogy, as can be revealed by reading many of the reviews. For starters, it's LONG: over 200 chapters. As a result, the English-speaking world has split it into three books: The Vicomte de Bragelonne, Louise de la Valiere and The Man in the Iron Mask (the most famous volume). The length is certainly a problem, in fact is it THE major flaw in the conclusion of the trilogy. Dumas is never terse or concise, but in this three-part book, he produces an monolith. This was largely due to him overcomitting himself and having to write this much for financial reasons. However, while this is a major setback, the three books still have elements of great, almost sublime Dumas left in them, which can be extracted if approached in the right way. <br /> <br />In terms of this specific volume (The Man in the Iron Mask), this is where the Four come back into play after a long absence during Louise de la Valliere. Also, as could be expected, they come to meet their destinies and indeed, their deaths. The title of the  book derives from Dumas tying in to the popular conspiracy theory of the historical man in the iron mask as being some important figure, to his writing about Louis XIV's court. In the book therefore, the man is the king's identical twin brother, who was imprisoned to prevent the potentiality for a scuffle for the throne and/or civil war (and no, I wasn't wrong to \\"ruin\\" it as his identity is already mentioned in Louise de la Valliere - and if you have not read that or the series up to this point, PLEASE do so - although only the Three Musketeers and this volume are commonly known, they are all great, and necessary to enjoy this book). But like usual, there are many other exploits, triumphs and tragedies. Why is this the title then? I think the whole trilogy sees the escalation of the role of the Musketeers as beingbehind national affairs, and the possibility of usurpation found in a twin exceeds them all and lets them go out with a bang. <br /> <br />If you only expect more action involving the Four, then don't bother reading this at all. However, if you persevere, you will get to see sublime glimpses of what a long way the Musketeers of old have come (for better or worse), what they think about the entire society they live in and what Dumas thinks. As well as some of the old-fashioned-style adventure. I think that the fact that this is obscured by an overly-drawn-out style, while annoying, does not detract from this being an honourable conclusion to the trilogy. <br /> <br />Some didn't like the ending to the whole saga. I did, although some chapters at the end could have been edited out completely. The reason is that by now, I as a reader felt quite close to all the former Musketeers and this book shows the twilight of their life, shows them for who they are. Aramis as having somewhat fallen from honour by excessive manipulation and scheming that escalates to a shattering climax, Porthos as simple yet good-natured and always ready to help, d'Artagnan as the forceful man embittered by decades of serving asses and Athos and Raoul as the ever-solid rocks of calm finally reached by tragedy. They've all come a long way and the as they fade into the next world, this volume reminds us fondly of them and the chivalry, adventure, arrogance, good-humour and intrigue that they and the series stand for.	2004-12-17
US	22952028	R37UYTDSJ7RMQY	0192834657	469217151	Louise de la Vallire (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	4	27	28	N	N	See into glittering opulence	After writing The Three Musketeers and Twenty Years after, Dumas wrote a third installment to the trilogy. It is probably the most controvercial book in the trilogy, as can be revealed by reading many of the reviews. For starters, it's LONG: over 200 chapters. As a result, the English-speaking world has split it into three books: The Vicomte de Bragelonne, Louise de la Valiere and The Man in the Iron Mask (the most famous volume). The length is certainly a problem, in fact is it THE major flaw in the conclusion of the trilogy. Dumas is never terse or concise, but in this three-part book, he produces an monolith. This was largely due to him overcomitting himself and having to write this much for financial reasons. However, while this is a major setback, the three books still have elements of great, almost sublime Dumas left in them, which can be extracted if approached in the right way.<br /><br />In terms of this specific volume (Louise de la Valliere), this is the one where the Four have the least role in. They basically disappear for several hundred pages, with the exception of D'Artagnan, who has a highly non-heroic role. Rather, this part is about the love triangle between our old friend Raul, Loise and Louis XIV. It is written in a style most unlike the \\"usual\\" Dumas in that it is almost a piece of realism depicting court opulence and drama. It reminded me a bit of The Dream of the Red Chamber or even Anna Karenina. The action and intrigue are left behind for a very detailed view into the life of the court. Unlike previous installments where we see the Musketeers sleep on hay and greet musket-fire, in Louise de la Valiere, we see into the lavish existence of the King.<br /><br />It is in this book that we start to see Dumas' ideological concerns a bit more clearly in terms of the Musketeers trilogy. Basically, it seems he is harshly critical of Louis XIV's authoritarian and rigid opulence (which the notes to this edition suggest reminded him of his own day) and looked at the time represented by people like D'Artagnan as a more free one, and one where a chivalry code made life less restrictive. We can also see Dumas painting the hypocricy, nepotism and prejudice of the court with a brutal and at times satirical pen. The trifles of everyday existence are spun on for dozens of pages as we see that, while the former devotion of the Four to the idea of the monarchy was ideologically sound, the actual specimens (the King and his Court) aren't worth much in their behaviour and essence. This makes the book almost a sociological piece - and thus very different from the other parts of the Musketeers trilogy, but for such a long work, difference and variety are good.<br /><br />If you only expect more action involving the Four, then don't bother reading this at all. However, if you persevere, you will get to see sublime glimpses of what a long way the Musketeers of old have come (for better or worse), what they think about the entire society they live in and what Dumas thinks. As well as some of the old-fashioned-style adventure. I think that the fact that this is obscured by an overly-drawn-out style, while annoying, does not detract from this being an honourable conclusion to the trilogy.) and looked at the time represented by people like D'Artagnan as a more free one, and one where a chivalry code made life less restrictive. We can also see Dumas painting the hypocricy, nepotism and prejudice of the court with a brutal and at times satirical pen. The trifles of everyday existence are spun on for dozens of pages as we see that, while the former devotion of the Four to the idea of the monarchy was ideologically sound, the actual specimens (the King and his Court) aren't worth much in their behaviour and essence. This makes the book almost a sociological piece - and thus very different from the other parts of the Musketeers trilogy, but for such a long work, difference and variety are good. <br /> <br />If you only expect more action involving the Four, then don't bother reading this at all. However, if you persevere, you will get to see sublime glimpses of what a long way the Musketeers of old have come (for better or worse), what they think about the entire society they live in and what Dumas thinks. As well as some of the old-fashioned-style adventure. I think that the fact that this is obscured by an overly-drawn-out style, while annoying, does not detract from this being an honourable conclusion to the trilogy.	2004-12-05
US	22952028	R67ZADH9UAYE9	0192834630	569102650	The Vicomte de Bragelonne (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	4	20	23	N	N	A cumbersome but worthwhile finale	After writing The Three Musketeers and Twenty Years after, Dumas wrote a third installment to the trilogy. It is probably the most controvercial book in the trilogy, as can be revealed by reading many of the reviews. For starters, it's LONG: over 200 chapters. As a result, the English-speaking world has split it into three books: The Vicomte de Bragelonne, Louise de la Valiere and The Man in the Iron Mask (the most famous volume). The length is certainly a problem, in fact is it THE major flaw in the conclusion of the trilogy. Dumas is never terse or concise, but in this three-part book, he produces an monolith. This was largely due to him overcomitting himself and having to write this much for financial reasons. However, while this is a major setback, the three books still have elements of great, almost sublime Dumas left in them, which can be extracted if approached in the right way.<br /><br />The final installment of the trilogy represents the dear old Athos, d'Artagnan, Porthos and Aramis maturing and growing old. The trilogy thus moves from more active and straightforward swashbuckling to a more complex and sombre picture. Like the previous book Twenty Years After, it is not completely clear as to who's in the right and who isn't, only this time it is more so. Like the previous book, age has placed the former Musketeers in a somewhat divided situation, this time involving many a clandestine dealing of state and international level. Finally, in this three-part saga, we are introduced to a huge number of characters while our Four at times take a back seat for several hundred pages. This has been criticised as well, but has a point.<br /><br />In terms of this specific volume (The Vicomte de Bragelonne), it is the most historical one, as initially d'Artagnan and Athos are brought out of retirement, united in their royalist causes. After completing an adventure reminiscent of their former, more \\"action-packed\\" years, the intrigue of the newly-ascended Louis XIV begins. It is here that we can see Dumas as painting a brilliantly detailed picture of what he sees as France moving towards a more centralised, efficient yet pedestrian autocracy from Richeleu to Mazarin to Louis XIV. For the first time, d'Artagnan finds himself serving (and appreciated by) the king, however, the novel asks the question of whether this is at all a good thing. In the power-struggles of the court, we see the irony that the \\"detractors\\" of progress are often more honourable than its supporters.<br /><br />If you only expect more action involving the Four, then don't bother reading this at all. However, if you persevere, you will get to see sublime glimpses of what a long way the Musketeers of old have come (for better or worse), what they think about the entire society they live in and what Dumas thinks. As well as some of the old-fashioned-style adventure. I think that the fact that this is obscured by an overly-drawn-out style, while annoying, does not detract from this being an honourable conclusion to the trilogy.V begins. It is here that we can see Dumas as painting a brilliantly detailed picture of what he sees as France moving towards a more centralised, efficient yet pedestrian autocracy from Richeleu to Mazarin to Louis XIV. For the first time, d'Artagnan finds himself serving (and appreciated by) the king, however, the novel asks the question of whether this is at all a good thing. In the power-struggles of the court, we see the irony that the \\"detractors\\" of progress are often more honourable than its supporters. <br /> <br />If you only expect more action involving the Four, then don't bother reading this at all. However, if you persevere, you will get to see sublime glimpses of what a long way the Musketeers of old have come (for better or worse), what they think about the entire society they live in and what Dumas thinks. As well as some of the old-fashioned-style adventure. I think that the fact that this is obscured by an overly-drawn-out style, while annoying, does not detract from this being an honourable conclusion to the trilogy.	2004-11-23
US	22952028	R321ZDQ7TYZ8FP	0192830740	323368179	Twenty Years After (World's Classics)	Books	5	25	26	N	N	Fabulous Followup	This is the second book in Dumas' Musketeers trilogy and the sequel to The Three Musketeers. Since this is not a trilogy which can be read out of order, the best way of describing the book is probably to compare it to the first one. <br /> <br />The basis is quite simple: it is twenty years since the adventures of the Four, and they have gone their separate ways. After Cardinal Richeleu's death, the new de-facto ruler of France is Mazarin, who is less ruthless yet less honourable. Rather than feared and hated as Richeleu was, Mazarin is unpopular, despised and scorned - and has a reputation for enormous avarice. As d'Artagnan's brilliance has gone largely unrewarded in his 20 years as lieutenant of the Musketeers, he embraces the chance to serve Mazarin directly.  <br /> <br />However, in trying to gather his three friends, he finds out the extent to which time separates people. No longer a unit, the four are caught on opposite sides of the historical Fronde conflict. The book is essentially about their exploits with the added dimension of the attempts to maintain their friendship despite the outside world causing many a rift. I think this is the book's greatest strength, as the whole trilogy shows a kind of progression from pure swashbuckling at the start of the Three Musketeers to a more introspective attitude. In Twenty Years after, this applies not only to history, but to friendships and interpersonal relationships. <br /> <br />This book contains many more detailed references to historical events (as many events in the first book weren't related to documented events) and hence will envelop you in a more concrete historical setting. On the other hand, this will mean more inaccuracies. Furthermore, Twenty Years after is longer than The Three Musketeers (so don't expect to get through it in one afternoon) but it's still classic drama-filled, scheming Dumas.  <br /> <br />Overall, a great book. I agree with people who say it's as good as the original, just don't expect more of EXACTLY the same - if it were it would be boring, but as Athos, Porthos, d'Artagnan and Aramis mature, so does our reading of their exploits.	2004-11-18
US	22952028	R2IYEYO4L3W6GM	0330400088	557004951	Three Musketeers (Bestsellers of Literature) (English and French Edition)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The original thriller/cloak-and-dagger adventure	The Three Musketeers is probably the most famous work of Dumas. It resounds in the popular imagination, which has done a lot for it being a household name but has also stripped some important features from it in the popular imagination.<br /><br />The book is the first in what eventually became a trilogy. The second work is Twenty Years After and the third is published in three volumes (Ten Years After or The Vicomte de Bragellone, Louise de la Valiere and The Man in the Iron Mask, the latter also being very famous). It is in this book that we become introduced, and attached to the immortal larger-than-life d'Artagnan, Athos, Porthos and Aramis and their exploits, heroism, cleverness, foolishness, gallantry and rabble-raising.<br /><br />It would be completely stupid to relate much of the plot: Dumas is heavy on plot twists and interweavings so this forms a huge part of the enjoyment of reading The Three Musketeers. In short, it is 17th century France, ruled by Louis XIII in formality, but in reality held in the authoritarian choke of Cardinal Richeleu. D'Artagnan aspires to become a Musketeer, the King's special elite guard famous for their daring exploits of war, chivalry and honour. He befriends Porthos, Aramis and Athos and together, they  become the Famous Four, producing exploits that will be talked about for decades to come. From the start of the book, they become involved in a war of swords and wits with Richeleu, the enemy of the Musketeers. It's a long book but I think that Dumas is a master plot-weaver and it has the pacing of a modern thriller with some lyrical digressions of a medieval romance. This is what makes Dumas' style of historical fiction so interesting.<br /><br />In terms of history, Dumas takes liberties with many facts and dates for the sake of his story and characters. If you're not a purist though, you'll find that he still does a great job of portraying the overall period, describing the court intrigues, daily life, ideology and events. In what will become a major technique for the rest of the trilogy, he takes commonly known historical events and makes his story achieve a clandestine, secret part in the events.<br /><br />I think the main thematic/moral purpose of Dumas was to cast his readers back to a time he saw as more extreme but more romantic and honourable as opposed to the rigid reality around him. In many times, we will find the actions of the four main characters (and others) to be in disaccord with our morality. For me, their flaws are one of their most endearing features. However, Dumas does not applaud every thing he makes the characters do, rather, he appreciates that they lived more simply, honourably and passionately. Even if reading the book for mere escapism, such escapism is necessary for every time, including our one.<br /><br />In suffering from what seems like hundreds of adaptations in film and popular culture, The Three Musketeers has caught an association with a childrens' book. Certainly, it is accessible and interesting to children and makes a great read. However, many such adaptations have stripped it of its dark, almost Shakesperean drama. The whole trilogy is a monumental battle between good and evil and, at least in this first installment, the lines are clear, but the applications are not. This is personified by Aramis - the Musketeer aspiring to become a priest. Overall, it is a book everyone can get something out of.<br /><br />Dumas' style, on the other hand, is far from \\"literary\\" in the deliberate sense. He was writing for a popular audience of his day and The Three Musketeers (and the rest of the trilogy) can be considered an early version of the thriller (with political, courtly and military dimensions). What I like about it is that despite it not being \\"high literature\\" it reads better than most modern thrillers because of the intricate plotting and exposure to a historical world so different from ours. So, become immersed in it, for 'twill do wonders!events. In what will become a major technique for the rest of the trilogy, he takes commonly known historical events and makes his story achieve a clandestine, secret part in the events.  <br /> <br />I think the main thematic/moral purpose of Dumas was to cast his readers back to a time he saw as more extreme but more romantic and honourable as opposed to the rigid reality around him. In many times, we will find the actions of the four main characters (and others) to be in disaccord with our morality. For me, their flaws are one of their most endearing features. However, Dumas does not applaud every thing he makes the characters do, rather, he appreciates that they lived more simply, honourably and passionately. Even if reading the book for mere escapism, such escapism is necessary for every time, including our one. <br /> <br />In suffering from what seems like hundreds of adaptations in film and popular culture, The Three Musketeers has caught an association with a childrens' book. Certainly, it is accessible and interesting to children and makes a great read. However, many such adaptations have stripped it of its dark, almost Shakesperean drama. The whole trilogy is a monumental battle between good and evil and, at least in this first installment, the lines are clear, but the applications are not. This is personified by Aramis - the Musketeer aspiring to become a priest. Overall, it is a book everyone can get something out of. <br /> <br />Dumas' style, on the other hand, is far from \\"literary\\" in the deliberate sense. He was writing for a popular audience of his day and The Three Musketeers (and the rest of the trilogy) can be considered an early version of the thriller (with political, courtly and military dimensions). What I like about it is that despite it not being \\"high literature\\" it reads better than most modern thrillers because of the intricate plotting and exposure to a historical world so different from ours. So, become immersed in it, for 'twill dowonders!	2004-11-17
US	22952028	R2KPL0DBD2UXXP	0553213482	980949698	Faust (Bantam Classics) (Part I) (English and German Edition)	Books	4	11	15	N	N	Either 3 or 5 stars depending on who you are	This is a review of the work, not a particular translation (as I couldn't find the translation I read on amazon). Personally, my 4 star rating is a kind of inadequate \\"average\\", based on two ratings: 3.5 stars and 5 stars.  <br /> <br />The 5 star rating is if you enjoy poetry, especially epic poems. In this case, the story truly does speak through the ages and is timeless. Goethe takes some very old traditions: the main plot is that Mephistopheles (who is the devil) is given permission by God to test the weary scholar Faust by offering to buy his soul in exchange for being Faust's servant. This bears a resemblance to the biblical book of Job and this resemblance continues throughout part 1 as it touches on many philsophical parts of existence.  <br /> <br />The story of Faust also has a tradition pre-dating Goethe. In Goethe's work, the story hinges around the initial attempts by Mephistopheles to appease Faust (whereupon he can claim his soul), Faust's affair with Margaret (aka Gretchen) and finally the descent into the chaos that could only have been expected when dealing with Satan. Although people tend to read too much into the work (it has many mundane things as well as profound ones), it probably comes from the fact that Goethe captures many aspects of humanity, desire and obsession so well - so even the most \\"ordinary\\" reference is profound. <br /> <br />The 3 star rating is for those who find poetry (and especially epic poetry) difficult. This is the category I fell in. I found all of the above reflections to be true - but they were hard to get to. I believe that the original German is sublime, but it is almost certainly difficult - as would be most translations. Goethe used a whole host of metres and poetic styles so the difficulty is inherent. However, if you bring your concentration and read slowly, it will still be a memorable and enjoyable work. <br /> <br />Hope my powers of concentration improve when I decide to read part 2!	2004-09-23
US	22952028	R3B80BT5YNZFZW	0140259198	782566565	The Island of the Day Before	Books	4	13	15	N	N	A multitude of books in one - but not for everyone	OK, this book has gotten a very wide range of mixed reviews. Basically, the deal seems to be this - after \\"The Name of the Rose\\" and \\"Foucalt's Pendulum,\\" one might have thought of Eco as the writer with the trademark combination of erudition, history, intellectual theory and popular narration.However, this book is none of that - it is a very strange blend of some of these features, but in a different way that ends up being unappreciated by many. <br /> <br />There is no essential plot to the book. It is about Roberto, a young nobleman who becomes cast away on an abandonned ship. What follows is a wide array of the memories of his life thus far, his quirky thoughts and happening on the ship, as well as the reasons why he is on the ship. The result feels like 5 or 6 books stuck together - which is interesting but hard to read. Thus, the first book might be entitled \\"The Anatomy of Rennaisance Sieges\\", the second \\"Paris as an Intellectual Flowerbed\\", the third \\"The Hunt for Longitude as a Means of Conquering the World\\", the fourth \\"A Jesuit Perspective of Metaphysics\\" and the fifth \\"The Yearning for the Orange Dove\\". All of these describe each of the implicit sections of the book, but don't do it justice. <br /> <br />As can be seen from the titles, the book parades you through the various intellectual milestones of the Rennaisance, from theology to metaphysics to astronomy and the history of science. If you are interested in any of these, the book is a worthwhile read. Also, despite the style being deliberately obscure, I felt Eco's signature playful manner of rearranging ideas shine through.  <br /> <br />Also, unlike previous books, we have a more traditional protagonist - and I enjoyed identifying and getting to like Roberto in his idealism, slightly-misguided intellectualism and quirky worldview. All of this is characterised by his desire for the Orange Dove (towards the end of the book), where I found emotional overtones that are rare in Eco. <br /> <br />On thedown side, it is definitely hard to read - at times it seems like it's completely deliberate and that's annoying. The highly fragmented nature doesn't help either. If you do read it, it helps if you're a fast reader and can take a short time to do it in - otherwise you'll end up like me, with flashes of insight from each day of reading, but because of the struggle, it becomes a long chain of flashes that are hard to connect together. <br /> <br />I liked it but I can see why many didn't. This is the book for you if you don't mind:  <br />1)putting aside prior perceptions of Eco <br />2)a deliberately hard read and <br />3)fragmented ideas (where it's more up to the reader to make sense of it all)	2004-08-22
US	22952028	R27URTEM9H6YKF	0679642420	187016080	The Idiot (Modern Library Classics)	Books	4	60	62	N	N	sublimely inaccessible	This is one of the more famous of Dostoyevsky's novels, and quite rightly so as it has his very-unique blend of psychology, philosophy and an unrelenting view of the bleakest recesses of the soul. <br />  <br /> I read the novel in the original Russian, so this isn't a review of any particular translation but the work itself. <br />  <br /> In brief, the book centres around a Prince who has returned to Russia after being treated for mental illness in Switzerland since his childhood (hence the idiot). He quickly becomes involved within the upper-middle eschellons of St Petersburgian society, as people become fascinated by his direct honesty, simplicity and compassion. He becomes emotionally involved with a Fallen Woman, and this develops into a love triangle with another woman, ultimately ending in --- you guessed it! - tragedy. The Idiot is portrayed as the symbol of a child-like innocence: he genuinely wants everyone to live in harmony and love. However, the falseness, politics and backstabbing of the world of Russian middle-nobility will have none of that.  <br />  <br /> The plot is quite complicated - but not in terms of twists. The story is quite simple in terms of what happened, however much of it is told inside-out, focusing on the internal world of the characters. So, if you feel like you've missed something - a reason for a character's comment, an event etc, chances are, this will be revealed later on. <br />  <br /> Dostoyevsky dwells on the extreme minute aspects of the emotional lives of his charactes. This is the richest aspect of the novel - and these emotions possess all the contradiction and chaos that real people have. There are no total heroes in the book - but I found a part of myself identifying with the Prince, as the grown child who just doesn't want to accept the &quot;adult&quot; behaviour of interpersonal relationships. I think it's expected in reading the book that some characters will be loathed, some found amusing and admired, some arousing interest - but not loved. This is because the world portrayed within the book is very inaccessible. It's hard to identify with anyone in terms of more than the generality of emotion - not just because the setting is remote, but because the characters experience thoughts and ideas that are so different to what most people would. I think this inaccessability was deliberate - as we feel not-quite-at-home in the world of the book, so it highlights how the Prince is not quite at home there - and that's where the sublime feeling is derived from. <br />  <br /> On a side note, be prepared for the difficulty of keeping track of names, as people are called by their surnames on certain occasions and the rest is first name and father's name. With heaps of characters and many Russian names, it all becomes a mess. But with some concentration (perhaps making a cast of characters?) that can be overcome and a great read will be had. <br />  <br /> A great book that will interact with your emotional world - if you don't mind heavy reading. <br />	2004-07-25
US	22952028	R2G38SSZ4T4OMU	0393312836	483124263	A Clockwork Orange	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Conciseness makes the book great	This is Burgess's most famous novel, largely to the controversial treatment of it by Kubrick. As with most famous novels, there is the danger of disappointment because they are so hyped up. This was the case with me, until I was about halfway through. Then, because it was sufficiently different from the movie, I realised that it was good beyond the hype. And overall, it is the fact that Burgess has condensed quite a lot of ideas onto about 150 easy pages that makes this book a great read. If it was much longer (like so many other thematic books of novels-of-ideas) it would lose its tolchok...<br />Speaking of tolchoks, this would be the most challenging part of the novel - nadsat. The narrator is Alex, a juvenile delinquent living in a somewhat not-too-distant-and-certainly-dystopian future, where Britain is quite close to being a police state and where crime is such that the &quot;delinquencies&quot; of little Alex involve rape, murder and other examples of ultra-violence. Furthermore, the teens in this future speak nadsat, a slang peppered with Russian expressions. The first page should be quite a shock to those who don't know Russian (and if like me you do know it, there's the feature of figuring out what Russian word the Anglicised string of letters is meant to symbolise). Anyhow, you can think of it as a cloze passage and in a few pages, you should be fluent. If not, there are excellent resources on the internet, such as Wikipedia's nadsat entry. As for the purpose of this deliberate difficulty, it's actually worthwhile in highlighting the superficial and brutal subculture Alex lives in.<br />The novel is divided into three parts. Part 1 is Alex and his friends running amok and basically doing what they like. Part 2 is Alex in prison, and the famous Ludovico's &quot;rehabilitation&quot; technique. Part 3 is Alex back in the world, with a difference.<br />The book is seen to explore free-will and the choice to do good and evil. As such, we climb into the head ofsomeone who would most likely be described as a sociopath in conventional terms. He commits acts of violence simply because this is what he genuinely enjoys. And to go against the stereotype of the low-IQ bum, Alex is considerably intelligent and has a true passion for classical music. This sets up the background of a world-gone-mad. Then, Alex is treated with a technique that physically conditions him to be unable to do harm to anyone. Of course, the prison chaplain is against this but according to the Minister of the Interior, at least it will help in the seemingly-hopeless fight against violence.<br />Alex immediately becomes front-page material and a political pawn from all sides of the spectrum. Burgess examines the nature of our society, where politics and public perception are at the heart of every issue, and where both sides can become involved in dirty and partisan tactics. Also, the inconsistencies of the way society brings people up, incarcerates, punishes and attempts to rehabilitate criminals is a major idea.<br />The good thing is that it is unclear to me what moral lesson Burgess was actually attempting to espouse. He really lets the reader draw their own conclusions, more so than most writers. Finally, some of the early editions cut the last chapter, making the novel more edgy and dark (this is the case in the film). The last chapter (part 3, chapter 7) is an actual resolution. People have argued whether it makes the novel better or not. I think it does make it better because it casts irony on the tortuous attempts to rehabilitate Alex. But try to get an edition with the last chapter so you can see what Burgess intended originally.<br />Because it seems that somehow, violence is still with us *just a bit*, and the Clockwork opens up the recesses of evil and not-so-evil and its such a concise read makes it a great novel of the 20th century, and more original than many other dystopias.	2004-07-07
US	22952028	R3ODK1O52ZBP7A	0553275976	678579754	The Bonfire of the Vanities	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Watch out, NY!	The much-celebrated novel is a fairly unique one in the landscape of literature. Its 700+ pages and style are, as explicitly stated by Wolfe in the intro, an attempt to return to the grander realism works of the past. He specifically mentions Anna Karenina as the great example of the novel that portrays a cross section of a whole society. Only this is rarely done today, so what we have is one of the only major cross-sections of New York in the 80's.<br />However, this is a cross-section that is viciously sliced from the meaty flesh of New York society, leaving it gaping, bleeding and exposed, all in a highly satirical and humorous way. <br />The main story revolves around a high-powered broker and his mistress who are involved in a hit-and-run accident which leaves a young, black &quot;youth&quot; from the Bronx in a coma. The scandal sweeps the city as an epitomy of the racial, economic and cultural differences (and inequalities), as a mob builds up around the case. In terms of the actual plot, there's nothing complicated, rather, its the eye into the eschelons of high, middle and poor society New-York-style that makes this entertaining and enjoyable.<br />Wolfe exposes the massive slab of hypocrisy present in the society, from the DA who has idealistic tirades about his job (when it's really a vehicle for his extra-marital and political ambitions) to the British journalist who thumbs his nose down on all things American (while scurrying for his next free meal and alcoholic binge).<br />As mentioned by many reviewers, there's nothing essentially new in the book - as Wolfe said, some of it feels like it's been ripped from the headlines, but in reality much of it is art imitating life. What I liked about the book is its message of vanity and indulgence, and how quickly those superficial bubbles can be burst in a crisis to *make* a person &quot;ordinary&quot; again. True to an almost century-old tradition in books, there are no real heroes here. But still, despite allthe horrible things the main character has done, I found myself feeling sorry for him and somewhat admiring him by the end.<br />Other complaints have been the superficial role of women in the book, but again, I think that's simply an extension of the superficiality of a section of society that spends more on a painting frame than a cop earns in 6 months.<br />Overall, a great book that speaks without being preachy and has a lot of very funny moments.	2004-07-03
US	22952028	R3A6VXS7NX5L1G	0156439611	466126836	If on a Winter's Night a Traveler	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Great, depending on what kind of reader you are	&lt;Contains spoiler as to the very end of the book, which is completely irrelevant to its immense enjoyment&gt;<br />If on a winter's night a traveller is a book dedicated to the world of reading, readers, novels, stories, narration, publishing etc etc. Calvino has conjured up what seems like chaos but in actuality is a pretty organised reflection on reading. The book has two levels - the outer one is a book with you (the reader) as a character. The character has just bought a book by Calvino entitled - you guessed it - If on a winter's night a traveller. However, things go horribly and yet fantastically wrong. The text in the binding turns out to be the work of another author who you now want to obtain. And when you do, that turns out to be another book and so on, ten times. <br />So, the outer story is you the reader pursuing an increasing number of novels (and in turn the very essense of the joy of reading) as well as a romance with a woman you met at the bookstore. Yes, this is a slight bummer for female readers but think of it as an excursion. The two pursuits are intertwined beyond recognition, naturally. The inner story is the 10 books you get to read, or rather their start, or rather Calvino telling the story of how you're reading them, or rather....<br />You get the picture. If you like your novels clean, with concrete plots, this is the exact opposite of that. And notice I'm not saying you won't enjoy it because chances are, you will! Because if you've ever felt an almost nostalgic hunger for narrative and have ever felt animosity towards works being academically over-analysed and pulled to parts, commercialised and produced in a seeming assembly-line as well as the proliferation of fake-ness in society in general (and all of these are satirised throughly in the novel), you'll find a book that appeals directly to your soul as a reader. And ironically, it will do this by having no coherent narrative and by over-analysing itself.<br />Sounds like a heap ofpostmodern trash that was composed as a pretext to be &quot;avant-garde&quot; -- until you read it and see the satire and exaggerations that are used by a master storyteller to poke fun at our intertwined, sometimes censored, sometimes fabricated, sometimes enthralling world of ideas. Which isn't bad for an easy-to-read 200 pages. Of course, if you religiously your novels clean, with concrete plots then by all means don't read it and miss out an opportunity to go from the question &quot;what shall I read?&quot; to a more philosophical &quot;why do i read?&quot;. But twill be better if you do.<br />Oh and as a final convincing argument (and the spoiler), any novel that ends in you deciding you want to marry Ludmilla can't be all bad, can it?	2004-06-21
US	22952028	R6S3PQBSJDQYS	034543014X	544398776	The Princess Bride: S. Morgenstern's Classic Tale of True Love and High Adventure (The 25th Anniversary Edition)	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Definitely deserves its status as a classic!	A lot of people have seen the film The Princess Bride and would know of the book from the film. The movie has for long possessed a cult-like status, being seen as funny, warm, irreverent and full of classic &quot;love and adventure&quot;. All these things are true about the book, only more so. Like the film, the story follows the strife of the love between Westle and Buttercup, as Buttercup is set to marry the prince of Florin and all the circumstances in the world seem to be set against the true lovers from being reunited. The book has all the adventure elements of the movie such as the Cliffs of Insanity and the Rodents Of Unusual Size. It has more detail though and adds much more to the story, sepcially in the Zoo section of which the movie only took bits from as well as the backstories of the characters. The other major difference is that the wrapper story, instead of a grandfather reading to a sick grandson, is that the book is Goldman's abridgement of a classic Florinese work.<br />The Princess Bride can be looked at from some kind of post-modern tribute to adventure stories, full of deliberate and often humorous anachronisms. But I think it's so much more than that. It seems to be the only book I've read that's both a great member of a genre (the cloack and dagger, adventure-filled, swashbuckling romance) as well as a parody of the same genre. It's amazing how it's pulled off - on the one hand it's cynical about happy endings and the classic elements of adventure stories and sends them up in an amazingly funny way and yet reading it, you still feel a part of you yearning for those classic elements and finding them marvelously present in the book.<br />And of course, the characters are truly larger than life, from Inigo the Spanish swordsman who has dedicated his life to finding the man who killed his father to Fezzik, the slightly-slow-witted giant with a brand heart, sense of humour and love of rhymes.<br />Many readers in the reviews were annoyed by Goldman's whole wrapper of the book being written by Morgenstern as well as the 30 page intros and digressions into his fictional struggles to get the book published. An unbelievably high number of people fell for the whole thing and are currently hunting for the &quot;unabridged&quot; Princess Bride by Morgenstern! Personally, I enjoyed the digressions very much. I think without them it might have just ended up as a more conventional adventure story and not the cult classic it is. There's something about the whole appeal to an older/&quot;greater&quot; writer as well as some mockery of the world of publishing and manuscripts (and Morgenstern's digressions!) that adds to the cynical-yet-not-cynical nature of the book. I think the reason is that the book is a story and it's also about stories and storytelling and because it has so many layers, all of them warm and filled with Goldman's quirky visions, that everyone can get a lot out of it. So don't expect a regular, uninterrupted narrative!<br />Finally, this edition has Goldman's recent and brief return to the book, the first chapter of Buttercup's Baby (as Goldman was only allowed to do one chapter due to legal reasons, read the book!). In it, he picks up (sort of...) where the story left off and presents some fragmented visions of the characters from both past and present. I guess it's understandable that some fans wouldn't be happy as they might feel emotionally attached to the classic, which also feels like a complete-in-itself work. However, I read the whole thing for the first time (including Buttercup's Baby) over two days recently and it was actually quite good to get that little bit extra about the characters. I think if people saw the book as the classic but the supplement as quite a meaningful addition to our knowledge of the characters (especially Inigo) then it wouldn't seem so &quot;sacriligeous&quot;.<br />This is the favourite book of many people and while it's not my absolute favourite, I think it's beyondsuperficial rank claims - just a really special novel.	2004-06-07
US	22952028	R1DQLZDJH5L3BX	0805062971	311054036	Fight Club: A Novel	Books	5	2	3	N	N	'Twill forever change the way you look at soap!	I shall divide the review into two parts, the first part for those who haven't seen the movie and the second for those who have.<br />For those who haven't:<BR>To be honest I don't know which is better to experience first so I shan't comment on that except to say that both are excellent. Fight Club is about the friendship between the narrator and Tyler - a guy he meets. The narrator is a mindless participant of the corporate rat-race, an insomniac, meterialistic and so out of touch with humanity as an ideal that the closest he comes to genuine feeling is going to support groups pretending to have various types of terminal illness. Tyler is the exact opposite - pushing all boundaries, idealistic, anarchistic, self-destructive and loving it. Together, they establish Fight Club, a place for the nameless faces of middle corporate America to remind themselves they're alive by belting the daylights out of one another. However, soon the anarchistic philosophy takes off on its own..<br />For those who have:<BR>The book is more extreme than the movie! Tyler's philosophy is much more radical - in the movie he does not seem to want anyone to get hurt but in the novel, that's exactly what he wants. Be prepared for a more confronting experience - including some scenes that are more placid in the movie. And you thought the film warranted an adults-only rating...!<br />The style of the book is quite difficult - very easy to read but the narrator's style, while not exactly stream-of-consciousness, is very coloured and colourful - so much so as to completely overwhelm the story. It is however the themes of dissatisfaction with mediocrity, the cynicism about heroes and the belief that to be saved you have to reach rock-bottom first (and that's achieved big-time in the book!) that make it so memorable.	2004-06-02
US	22952028	R3NW5QFSFWD427	0553294385	297254906	I, Robot (The Robot Series)	Books	4	13	14	N	N	Seminal and misunderstood	This collection of short stories by Asimov seems to generate a huge variety of responses, from those who take it as a masterpiece to those who wouldn't use it for toilet paper. I think both sides are wrong.<br />The book is a collection of some of Asimov's short stories involving robots. They're arranged in &quot;chronological&quot; order with a wrapper story to make this volume an outline of the rise of robots and robotics in the Asimov universe. As such, he explores the ideas of what it means to be human versus being a robot. This is done largely through the application of the three laws of robotics (quoted by many a review of this book) to real-life situations - in other words when things get complicated.<br />The result is a bunch of stories which are a bit like logical puzzles, often with a philosophical basis. I enjoyed them and despite their limitations they made me think. My favourite is Reason with the philosophical rantings of Cutie - the first robot to question his/her existence.<br />The limitations are that Asimov was writing this many a decade ago and our current conceptions of what machines can and can't do (yet) are dramatically different - his robots will seem much too human to someone looking at the field today.<br />To counteract the criticism, no this work is not character driven and yes the characters are one-dimensional because that's what they're meant to be. This isn't an emotional/psychological drama, it's a good piece of science fiction exploring notions of technology and humanity with all the other elements of fiction used as tools. No-one would criticise a textbook for its lack of lack of believable characters of flowery prose and I don't see how this is different - both are genres which focus on other things. <br />The only thing that matters is whether the book is enjoyable and has some good ideas which I think it does and I hope that people will agree after they read I Robot with an attitude that doesn't expect exhuberant literary style and realise that this is Asimov's first stab at the application of formal things like robotics to human situations. And I think it's a pretty good one at that!	2004-05-23
US	22952028	RDIQL9TFW2F56	0553293397	345876674	The Naked Sun (The Robot Series)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	The madness of two worlds	The Naked Sun is a great sequel to Asimov's Caves of Steel. There, we were introduced to Elijah and Daneel as well as the Earth in the 3rd millenium, with its industrialisation, soullessness, pathological confinement in enclosed spaces and a dictatorial intrusion of the bureaucratic machine into every aspect of life imaginable. <br />In this book, a murder occurs in a Spacer world and Elijah is specifically requested for. The murder, they say, is a logical imposibility, as it could only have been done by one person and even that person could not possibly have done it. Reluctantly, Elijah travels to the world of Solaria, where the murder occured and, reunited with Daneel, attempts to solve it in his already well-known style.<br />Considering the contempt of Spaces for all earthlings, his visit to the outer world of Solaria is unprecedented and he has no idea to expect from a culture which diverged from earth's 300 years ago. The result is staggering - a huge planet with only 20,000 inhabitants and several thousand robots per person means unprecedented luxury. Everyone has huge estates, isolated from everyone and life is automated and mechanised to the nth degree. This reflects in the social aspect of life, where *seeing* a person (in the flesh) has become a social taboo, to be avoided as much as humanly possible. Instead, social contact is done through the impersonal, though extremely sophisticated machinery and is called *viewing*. Even a husband and wife (allocated roles in Solaria) rarely see each other, most of the contact done by viewing.<br />And so, without giving away the details of the mystery, Bailey is essentially faced with a thematic connundrum. On the one hand, the Solarians don't have the almost psychotic fear of open spaces and nature that Bailey and other earthlings possess due to existing all their lives in boxes within boxes. But Solarians have lost the other essential aspect of humanity, as Bailey sees what a pathetically isolated, lolly-pop worldSolaria is, where most of what we consider meaningful (real interactions, children, family) are either taboo or nonexistent.<br />The book represents a step up from the Caves of Steel which outlined the way people live on earth. For the first time, we can see Asimov's robot-filled universe and the consequences on technology. On Earth, the crowding has ensured that social contact has remained but people have lost their communion with nature and the universe itself. On Solaria, the reverse is true, with plenty of sun and open spaces but no humanity. I really enjoyed this whole take on the world (especially as Bailey learns to see his fear of open spaces for what it is - an arbitrary, unnecessary hinderance). <br />The only problem is that Asimov hammers this thematic point with the subtlety of a Britney Spears outfit. Still, it's interesting. The mystery itself is what has been criticised in otehr reviews and I don't consider it as satisfactory/&quot;perfect&quot; as Caves of Steel, but it's relatively interesting and it just shows that the action was a vehicle towards what Asimov really wanted to say.<br />So, overall, a great book despite its flaws as it'll actually make you think about the values of our society and the direction we *might* be going - unlike many other sci-fi works (including some by Asimov), this one's both entertaining *and* meaningful.	2004-05-21
US	22952028	R29M62HX3UBAPR	0553293362	834333861	Second Foundation	Books	3	1	2	N	N	A worthy yet over-the-top finale	This is the final book in the original Foundation trilogy.<br />With the advent of the Mule, the Foundation is set off from the Seldon plan irreversibly. Or is it? The second book ends with a theory that the Second Foundation established by Seldon, is one consisting of the scientists using Seldon's own method of mathematical psychology. As such, it would make it a natural complement to the physical scientists of the First Foundation. However, very little is known about the Second Foundation and they haven't shown their face in all the centuries of the Foundation history. Do they exist? Do they have the power of Seldon's psychology? Are they the true keepers of the Plan or are they the enemy?<br />This novel details the search for the Second Foundation - whatever that entity happens to be. There are two books: the first detailing the Mule's own search for the Second Foundation (to destroy it and thus establish his supreme dominion of the Galaxy) and the second, detailing the search by some people from the Foundation itself (by which time, it is seen as a hostile force from the Foundation's perspective).<br />I found the second book to be better, but, while enjoyable, they both suffer from a flaw missing from the previous Foundation novels. The others were concerned largely with physical force and even at that were pretty packed with conspiracies, double-crossing and the like. Because the Second Foundation deals with the mind, these elements escalate to the point where I though it was a bit too arbitrary. The climaxes of both books are a bit like a wild goose chase, where the reader's conception of the situation is shattered and a new one built up in its place several times over within a few pages. It seems a bit over-the-top.<br />Still, a great finish to the trilogy. It's still a very entertaining novel and other than that flaw, it has the great mega-epic quality of the others: a whole civilisation's essence is epitomised in a few hundred pages. The book ends on a quite unresolved note, hundreds of years away from the projected establishment of the Second Empire, but it's the potential uncertainty that I liked (a good thing for the purists who don't accept the later Foundation novels as being in the spirit!). It certainly wraps up the whole basis of what the Plan was/is and why things happened like they did (although, of course, it doesn't fully satisfy by a longshot). This makes it a worthy ending to the monumental trilogy.	2004-05-18
US	22952028	RQD05Q4N678JM	0553293370	834333861	Foundation and Empire	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A wonderful sequel	Welcome to the second book in the Foundation trilogy (although Asimov did write further books, it was a trilogy originally). The book picks up where Foundation left off - the Foundation has established itself as a formidable force in the Periphery of the Galaxy. Of course, everyone is too well aware that gaining control of the local warlords is small potatoes compared to what's to come. In Foundation and Empire, the inevitable comes.<br />As the previous novel, Asimov has divided this into books, however here there are only two. As a result, he gets to explore the characters at more length then in Foundation. But again, expect wonder, amazement and enjoyment at the themes, issues and grandeur of this book, not the characterisation and &quot;literary&quot; qualities.<br />In the first book, the conflict between the Foundation and what's left of the Empire develops. This however is a much bigger game - in the past, the warlords barely out-war-powered the Foundation, while here the Empire dwarfs it even in its twilight. As always, something must be done other than a brute force tactic. Furthermore, the &quot;heroes&quot; of the Foundation are no more, in the conflict there are no Mallows or Hardins to guide the political intrigue, so it is here that Seldon's plan is put to the ultimate test.<br />In the second book (not to give away too much), a new threat to the Plan arises. A man known only as the Mule comes to light. And for the first time, an individual drastically changes the course of history. Indeed, he consists of the biggest threat to the plan thus far. What's so special about him?.. Personally, I found this book the most enjoyable in the whole trilogy - it reminds me of the little cryptic &quot;detective&quot; plotting from other Asimov works I read, such as I Robot and Steel Caves. However, here, it's an almost perfect melodrama played out (and unlike many detective elements in novels includingthose of Asimov - this one doesn't seem contrived or make you feel at all &quot;cheated&quot;), as we follow some Foundationers in their quest to find out what the Mule is and how to deal with him.<br />This is a great continuation of the saga and will also bring out many interesting questions - like whether an individual can change the course of history. It will also shake up your conception of the Seldon plan - overall, a great book.	2004-05-15
US	22952028	RNGBNOH3QSMD5	0553293354	834333861	Foundation	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A classic tale of civilizations	This is the first book in the famous Foundation trilogy. The story is simple. It's over 50,000 years in the future and humans have spread throughout the whole galaxy, with millionsof worlds and quintillions of people united by an Empire. However, the empire is crumbling.<br />Enter Hari Seldon, the pioneer of psycho-history - a kind of complete, mathematical social science that uses statistical averages and modelling to predict social trends in large populations for thousands of years to come. Hari's studies show that the collapse of the empire is invevitable. However, if he takes action now, the period of suffering before the next empire might be decreased from 30,000 years to 1000. So, he establishes two foundations on opposite sides of the galaxy to follow his master plan. This book is the story of the first foundation.<br />As a work of literature, expect no marvels of prose or metaphor. Most of the chapters are dialogue between people. There is also little characterisation and a blatant disregard for the &quot;show, don't tell&quot; rule of writing. All of these things are there because the trilogy covers hundreds of years. As such, this novel is divided into 5 books with a gap of decades or centuries between each. The whole text is very episodic as we watch an entire civilisation emerge from a modest group of scientists to a powerful force in the outskirts of the galaxy.<br />So, the concepts of the book were what I found interesting. Of course, the whole premise that human history can be mathematically be mapped out as a kind of law of averages seems ridiculous to me. I don't think that Asimov believed that either - he just saw it as an interesting idea for a story. The great Hari Seldon maps out the future history of the Foundation, ensuring that it basically has one cosmic path to follow - one which will end in laying the seeds for the new Galactic Empire.<br />The first book details with around the first 200 years of the foundation, as several crises are encountered by individuals as forces of history. With few military resources, the leaders are forced to rely on their wit. I'm onto the second book now so should find out if that wit was enough.<br />A great read in that you'll find in interesting even if you aren't a great science fiction fan - it has very unique perspectives social &quot;science&quot; and what makes a civilization.	2004-05-08
US	22952028	RJOVXZZMLQTNL	0192839969	461988546	A Sentimental Journey and Other Writings (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	4	21	22	N	N	A great supplement for fans of Sterne	Most readers are familiar with Sterne for his more famous Tristram Shandy. This volume contains some of his other works. Personally, I found Tristram to be of a much higher caliber, mainly because it is a complete epic which covers so many of Sterne's theories and rantings. So, if you're encountering Sterne for the first time, go to Tristram. For fans wanting some more writings, this is a good collection.<br />The first section is A Sentimental Journey. We already have a part of a travelogue of Tristram in his self-titled work. In this one, it is the marvellous personage Yorick that undergoes the journey through Italy and France. The book in in the form of a ranty journal that supposedly draws from Sterne's own travels. He intended to publish 4 volumes but wrote 2 before other pursuits and eventually death caught up with him. In the work, his sentimentalism relaly comes through as he goes through various amusing incidents, tragic stories and semi-amorous adventures. All this is done with a certain dignity. The 2nd volume ends in a scene of planned abruption which I found amusing enough to justify the rest of the book.<br />I didn't read the next two pieces, the first one because I didn't want to pry into his private life and the second because it was hard to follow the context. The pieces are Journal to Eliza - a personal correspondence, and A Political Romance - his first published work which is a satire on a scandal which, with the proper background should be interesting.<br />The last section is a selection from the Sermons of Yorick, where the eccentric Shandean minister makes another appearance providing Sterne with an opportunity to make theological statements. These were very interesting, giving light to another side of Sterne. They are all based on a single biblical verse and explore its themes in termes of human experience.<br />The only possible inconvenience is that like many modern publications, this has endnotes rather than footnotes and because contextual explanations are necessary, you have to flip back and forth. Otherwise, a great insight into the writer and person behind Tristram.ual explanations are necessary, you have to flip back and forth. Otherwise, a great insight into the writer and person behind Tristram.	2004-05-06
US	22952028	R370UIV59AG9MP	0684853949	358452686	The Man Who Mistook His Wife For A Hat: And Other Clinical Tales	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A must for anyone who is human	For those who don't know, Oliver Sacks is a world-famous neurologist, treating patients where the problem is (at least believed) to be caused by a physical aspect of brain function. He has also written a host of popular books based on his case studies. This is probably the most famous one.<br />This book deals with patients who are suffering from various forms of diseases which impact their living and thinking selves so dramatically that the core of the book seems to be coming to terms with what these states of mind could mean. There's the man who's lost all the intuition related to vision - he can recognise abstract shapes but not faces or commonplace objects. There's the man suffering from Tourette's who's become so used to the disease's influence on his personality that the downer drugs have given him  a loss of identity. There's the man who has absolutely no short term memory and is thus forced into a farcical and tragical string of endless flights of fance to make things fit into his worldview.<br />The book is divided into 4 sections - the first dealing with a loss of some part of cognition, the second with some excesses of cognition (and yes this may seem odd but read the essays!), the third with visions in patients and the fourth with the &quot;simple&quot; - people with a low IQ.<br />Sacks is very interested in imagining what it must be like to live like a certain patient - although at times it's quite impossible. It is here that his humanity and empathy comes through. The book is critical of the impersonal and clinical nature of traditional neurology - Sacks is much more human-oriented.<br />The uncertainty of the various selves paraded in the book leads him to explore many philosophical aspects of what a &quot;self&quot; is and what parts are essential. The surprising (to people new to this area) thing is that in so many of the patients with severe problems (complete amnesia, an IQ of 60, autism) - the external characteristics of the mind are shattered but there remains somewhat of an introspective, emotional, conscious self. It is in highlighting this that the book is at it's most human.<br />This is a must read as it will enhance your knowledge of some of the more &quot;self&quot;-debilitating illnesses, challenge your own sense of self and humanity and in many occasions will move you to an extent that few scientific books do. And through it all will be clear the magical, still-mystical-despite-scientific-advances and elusive essence of humanity that gives life wonder.	2004-04-18
US	22952028	R1KOKJ7GT58BCW	0440206154	247672694	Red Dragon	Books	3	1	2	N	N	No masterpiece but still very good	This is the first book in the famous Lecter trilogy. In it, Hannibal does not have a prominent role but rather it focuses on Will Graham, the agent who caught Hannibal. Traumatised to the point of retirement, he's brought back years later to use his &quot;special gift&quot; in investigating another brutal serial killer.<br />Personally, I'm not very much into crime/horror/serial killer novels but I saw Red Dragon at the movies and loved it and the book certainly didn't disappoint. The characterisation is extremely graphic in terms of the reader really getting to know Graham and the killer intimately. The vividness of their demons is what gives this book it's intended creepiness, not the crimes themselves, brutal as they are.<br />The one thing I found was that the novel wasn't much better than the movie (in most adaptations I think the book tends to be better and more in depth) - I'm not sure whether it's that the film was made so well that it covered almost all of the book's content or the book's pop-prose style made it less tightly packed (or possibly both). Either way, it's a very good read and Harris deserves the popularity based on this work alone.	2004-04-16
US	22952028	RLLV20XH9S718	1864501723	955728078	The Age of Kali: Indian Travels and Encounters	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Very informative and (hence) depressing	In this book, the famous travel-writer Dalrymple publishes a collection of his essays about South Asia that he has gathered from a decade of living in the sub-continent. There are six sections - North India, Rajasthan, the New India, The South, the Indian Ocean and Pakistan. <br />Be warned that the book, especially the first two sections are incredibly depressing. The horrors of some aspects of modern Indian living rarely make it to the front page so I found myself almost numb with shock as to the level of suffering described. Dalrymple details an Indian state in chaos, where most of the parliament is made up of convicted criminals who murder openly, where sectarian and caste disputes lead to regular massacres and where there's no infrastructure or safety. We are led through the hardships faced by the lower castes, the poverty and horrors of rural life and the immense corruption that's on a level that's fortunately hard to believe for an inhabitant of a &quot;developed&quot; country.<br />There are, however, some notions of hope. William describes the new prosperity emerging from the south as something with the potential to improve the lot of the whole country if it spreads. As usual, fans of Dalrymple will find plenty of digressions to the past, with his interest in the Muslim and colonial rulers of India showing through. My favourite thing about Dalrymple is how he presents both history and current affairs in an interesting way by finding the connections. This certainly occurs in this book, though most of it is modern.<br />The Age of Kali got me interested in world affairs again as you are thrust into the brutal techniques of groups such as the Tamil Tigers and various Hindu right-wing nationalists in India, as well as a reminder of the atrocities of Partition. The concise essays are examples of great journalism as Dalrymple gets up close to the people that make everything happen and shows you a view of the sub-continent that most aren't exposed to.<br />The book brings out many of the region's troubles but there is also a degree of optimism - it'll wake you up to issues of the region that aren't often enough discussed in most circles.	2004-04-07
US	22952028	R3J8L9V404LTZE	0679433139	740001827	The Divine Comedy: Inferno; Purgatorio; Paradiso (Everyman's Library)	Books	5	16	20	N	N	A very intricate and sublime work	Dante's Divine Comedy is considered as one of the supreme works of Western Literature and it certainly deserves that title. It is about the author being taken and shown around the late-Medieval, Catholic worldview. There are 3 sections: in the first he visits hell to see the torments of the wicked, in the second he goes to purgatory where the souls are purified and await heaven and the third section of the work is his visit to heaven itself. It begins with the author being lost and threatened in a dark wood (metaphorical no doubt) and the eminent Beatrice (read the book to find out about her) sends the poet Virgil from the Limbo (in hell) to take Dante so safety and show him around the Inferno and Purgatorio. Then Beatrice herself accompanies Dante through the Paradiso. As such, according to the poem, this is all part of God's plan to have an eyewitness see the afterlife and take a didactic message back to a troubled earth.<br />The book is probably classed as a late Medieval, early Renaissance work. It is written in superb Italian vernacular verse (or so I would imagine) and has many things in common with the epic poem and the romance genre, both of which were important in Dante's time.<br />Dante has several objectives. The most pragmatic one is to establish himself as a poet and a quality one despite his use of the vernacular. As such, he can be seen as a foreshadower of an increased availability of learning to the masses. Dante wants to dispel the notion that only works in Latin can be erudite and he is considered to have been very inventive in his use of the Italian dialect, often inventing words like Shakespeare did.<br />The most interesting one I found was to expound his worldview, theology and philosophy. Dante is an orthodox Catholic and the Divine Comedy is a great window the Medieval thought as it combined religion with Greek philosophy and a certain outlook on history. As such, we find that the Aristotelian cosmos with the earth in the centre and ten spheres (one for each planet) surround it, except that the spheres are populated by an increasingly holy presence of angels and souls of those holy to Catholicism. Hell is inside the earth, also being a series of concentric circles, leading to Satan in the centre. Purgatory is a mountain located on the other side of the earth (that is, from the point of view of Europe) and the physical connects with the symbollic as the souls make circuits round the mountain leading higher and higher until, purged from their sins they can go to heaven.<br />Through the travels, Dante meets hundreds of characters, demons and historical figures who have died. From this perspective, a large part of the book is a tad inaccessible as it requires a fairly good knowledge of his world to get the subtleties of his political contemporaries and the such. He distributes historical figures based on how good he thinks they were. Overall, it is impossible to convey the feeling but the book is essentially a collection of hundreds of stories of people who've lived in Dante's world, the things they did, how they were rewarded and punished and what they think of the contemporary world. There are popes, kings, Dante's ancestors, mythological figures etc etc. And all through one gets the central ideal of Dante - that he is a scourge (both as the fictional visitor to the afterlife and as the real writer of the work) of the corrupt offices of the Church and other human institutions that have gone astray and that a view into the afterlife is necessary to bring the world to the right path.<br />Sounds like heavy stuff and it often is but the great thing is that a lot of profound ideas from a late-Medieval writer and thinker are presented in very colourful and strong images that you'll remember for years.<br />This translation seems pretty good though I haven't seen any other. The edition is great as it has plenty of white space making reading easy as well as extensive notes and references. Finally, an often-neglected component of classics is illustrations. Here, there are about 50-60 pencil sketches from a single Renaissance artist which bring the episodes to life.<br />Finally, the emotional and symbollic levels of this work in terms of a personal spiritual journey from a troubled world to the depths of depravity, through purification and to the divine, are magnificent even if like me you aren't a Christian.<br />Overall, a timeless work, very intricate, thoughtful and sublime.eglected component of classics is illustrations. Here, there are about 50-60 pencil sketches from a single Renaissance artist which bring the episodes to life.<br />Finally, the emotional and symbollic levels of this work in terms of a personal spiritual journey from a troubled world to the depths of depravity, through purification and to the divine, are magnificent even if like me you aren't a Christian.<br />Overall, a timeless work, very intricate, thoughtful and sublime.	2004-04-04
US	22952028	RB8WUQYYRR897	0465026567	296214142	Gdel, Escher, Bach: An Eternal Golden Braid	Books	5	17	20	N	N	An epic intellectual journey	This book tries to explore several interrelated and complicated questions. These are &quot;what makes a self?&quot;, &quot;how is a self related to computers and formal systems?&quot;, &quot;how is meaning created?&quot; and &quot;to what extent is self-reference essential for meaning?&quot;. To try and answer these questions (and he admits that there are currently no satisfactory answers), the author embarks on a journey touching physics, maths, art, biology, computer science, cognitive science, music, Zen etc etc etc. This is a huge book in terms of length, scope and meaning. That's probably why it's been quite popular for over 20 years.<br />The book starts with an introduction to formal systems as rules for manipulating objects which can be represented as strings. He then links up to mathematical concepts to see how we can examine these systems and attach representation to them. Recursion is also introduced along with TNT (a special system of basic number theory), as well as some non-formal ways of thinking about systems (such as Zen).<br />In the second part of the book, computers and cognitive science are linked to formal systems. Finally, using TNT as an example, Godel's incompleteness theorem is explained in a manner that's relatively easy for the layman to understand, as well as its implications with respect to meaning. Then, the book talks about self-reference on a more general sense as well as the progresses in AI and what this all has to do with the search for meaning and the investigation of our thinking selves.<br />This may sound like a huge heap of tpoics and it is - but that's what makes the book special - its ways of connecting things from Godel's incompleteness theorem to Escher's self-referential prints to Bach's finely structured music which gives the &quot;formal system&quot; of musical notes an extra meaning.<br />One of the enjoyable things about the book is that each chapter has a dialogue before it which introduces the subject in an easy and intuitive matter. The dialogues carry along the Socratic tradition with the main players being Achilles and the Tortoise. <br />The book has hundreds of tables, diagrams and drawings to allow all readers to ponder at their level.<br />Even if you don't agree with many of Hofstadter's theories, I hope you will still consider this a great book. It combines humour, philosophy, science and keen observation in an enriching way.	2004-02-24
US	22952028	R1LBF6TGEBDYNI	0449003582	790565762	The Fortunate Pilgrim	Books	3	4	4	N	N	A good and worthwhile immigrant piece	Many of you will no doubt be attracted to The Fortunate Pilgrim riding on the fame of Puzo's mafia novels, especially the Godfather. The Fortunate Pilgrim is more of a drama in the traditional sense of the word. It tells the story of Lucia Santa - an immigrant widow living in a small appartment in New York and raising her children. This book exposes the reality of the life of immigrant Italians in all it's harshness, with the very tight budgets and subsistent living, domestic violence, a clash between the traditional Italian values and modern American ones, the generation gap and the temptation of crime.<br />This is characterized in Lucia's children. The daughter is an assertive, educated type determined to become big in the real world. One of the sons is a womaniser and all-round good guy. The other sons are archetypes of kids growing up during the depression. A moving, though at times slow book.<br />If you want to see and enjoy a different side of Puzo as a writer, this novel is ideal.	2004-02-20
US	22952028	RJNP28FB8A36Y	0395177111	669379389	The Hobbit (or There and Back Again)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	A great and classic tale	There have been few collections that have been held in such high international regard than the Hobbit and Lord of the Rings novels. Even before the LotR movies, Tolkien was synonymous with THE original classic fantasy works and now they're absolutely huge. With this set, you'll get to see what the fuss is all about.<br />The Hobbit is a prequel to the LotR. It is considered a children's tale and indeed Tolkien wrote it for his children. However, it's still very enjoyable for the adult and forms a great, easy introduction the the Middle-Earth universe. It tells the tale of how Bilbo Baggins, Gandalf the wizard and a bunch of dwarves set out to &quot;rescue&quot; a treasure-trove of gold from Smaug the dragon. The journey takes, to my recollection, something in the space of a year. In the course they experience all the classic elements found in a fantasy world - giant monsters, weird and wonderful characters, fantastical battles, spirited and magical helpers and loathsome dungeons. And all this told in the most easygoing and kind-hearted prose imaginable.<br />For more serious fans of the Middle-Earth universe, the linkups to LotR give the tale an extra twist of flavour. It is here that the Ring is first encountered, and it is here that we first feel the breath of the enemy...If you've seen the movies and want to read the books, The Hobbit is a great place to start.	2004-02-20
US	22952028	REJAEU9M7MF8L	0451167716	638098276	The Godfather (Signet)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A 4.5 star classic	Noone hasn't heard of The Godfather. Almost everyone has seen it. The movies (I and II) have been acclaimed as some of the greatest films of all time. The Godfather in novel form more than lives up to the expectations that in most adaptations the book is better than the movie. The story follows the rise of Michael Corleone as the Don of his mafia family. Michael is an unlikely Don who starts off as a college-graduate and war-hero who is ashamed of his family's illegal ties. But then circumstances changed...<br />The book has one better on what the movie has been accused of - gratuitous length. Godfather I and II are both very long and the attention to detail detracts from the attention spans of the more impatient viewers. But a novel is expected to be long and detailed - in fact it's not too long by literary standards.<br />The book covers Godfather I and parts from II which talk about Vito Corleone's beginnings as an Italian immigrant. It also has many plotlines that aren't in the movies. The greatness of the book is that it creates a whole world of emotion - with the loyalty, betrayals and murders. The book ties in subtle parts of the plot together making you see things that watching the movie aren't at all obvious (like the intentions of certain characters and the motivations for their behaviour). If you liked the Godfather movies at all or are interested in the workings of an Italian crime family at it's grandest, this book is gold.	2004-02-20
US	22952028	R3QUK482LHM8FQ	0395193958	669379389	The Lord of the Rings	Books	4	2	4	N	N	4.5 stars for this immortal book	There have been few series that have been held in such high international regard than the Lord of the Rings books. Even before the LotR movies, Tolkien was synonymous with THE original classic fantasy works and now they're absolutely huge. With this set, you'll get to see what the fuss is all about.<br />LotR is not a trilogy but a series in six books, with appendices. It is a monumental work detailing the struggle of the Fellowship of the Ring against the dark forces of Sauron and the quest to destroy the Ring of Power. This is clear to those who've either seen the movies (95% of people I think) or heard of them (99.9999%). This is what the content of the books is. Except obviously there's much more detail and it's much more epic in the sheer number of obstacles that are placed in the path of Frodo and friends.<br />The thing that would probably be useful is the differences between the books and the movies. The books are very rich in extraneous material. It is said that one of Tolkien's main purposes of writing the series was to create a world with his own invented languages and populate it - the stories are just a background to the languages! The book contains a lot of mythology. There are a lot of poems relating to times gone by and current events (which I personally didn't find very readable). Overall, there are many profound and emotional parts in the book that aren't given much credence in the movie - a great feeling of melancholy and nostalgia over a world in deterioration. This is only touched on in the films with the atmoshere of the elves.<br />The book contains a lot of journeying and this will also be a new feature. Rather than just getting to places like in the film, the characters spend a lot of time in the day-to-day marches. It is here that you begin to learn and appreciate the natural landscape of Middle-Earth, from the plains of Rohan to the little ecosystem of the Shire.<br />The appendices will only be read by LotR fanatics. There are backstories of the kingdoms and lineages of noble families and notes on the languages. One thing that is recommended to browse through is the timeline, especially what happened to the fellowship after the events of the book.<br />Overall, this is still the great book about timeless issues pertaining to good, evil, courage and hope. But it also has the extra emotional and descriptive elements. There is something that is missing, although I'm not sure what, that stops it from being 5 stars in my opinion.<br />A great piece of literary history. Contains a whole universe that's as deep and rich as our one.of the kingdoms and lineages of noble families and notes on the languages. One thing that is recommended to browse through is the timeline, especially what happened to the fellowship after the events of the book.<br />Overall, this is still the great book about timeless issues pertaining to good, evil, courage and hope. But it also has the extra emotional and descriptive elements. There is something that is missing, although I'm not sure what, that stops it from being 5 stars in my opinion.<br />A great piece of literary history. Contains a whole universe that's as deep and rich as our one.	2004-02-20
US	22952028	R1E7WQUNCEVO4X	0486203514	851380420	The Guide for the Perplexed	Books	5	18	20	N	N	A must for anyone interested in religion and/or Judaism	This has become one of my favourite non-fiction books. The Rambam (Maimonides) is an absolute giant of learning and explanations. In this volume, he presents many of the philosophical sides of Judaism which are rarely encountered.<br />The text is divided into 3 books.<br />The first book starts with discussing the use of homonyms in the Bible, especially in relation to describing God. The thesis that emerges is that it is only superficially that the Bible describes God as corporeal but the real doctrine precludes corporeality. The second topic discussed is the nature of esoteric study in Judaism and why it should only be taught in a restricted manner. The third topic is where Rambam protests against people using positive attributes to describe God and tries to prove that God is beyond such attributes. Then, he describes the Kalam argument (an Islamic school of thought that tried to prove the existence of God amongst other things) and points out his view of the flaws in it.<br />The second book starts with a discussion of Aristotelian philosophy in terms of cosmology and metaphysics and compares that with Judaism, especially the mystical tradition. Rambam then gives his own view of the world structure which is at times very amusing in terms of what we know of science but still very interesting. Then, he describes the nature of prophecy and what exactly it meant to be a Biblical prophet.<br />The third book opens with a hinted exposition of mystical passages in the Bible, such as Ezekiel's Chariot (Ezek Chap 1 and others). Then, he talks about God and the problem of Evil as well as providence. Finally, he describes the perfect worship of God as well as the purpose of most of the major commandments in the Torah. It is here that I could see why there was much opposition to the work from within the Jewish community - as he tends to provide unorthodox rationalisations that go against traditional expositions.<br />As you cna see, he convers sooooo much that a serious believer or non-believer would wish to consider that it's an absolute gem. The translation is dense, both in language and print but at least it's accessible in terms of being in one volume as well as the price. If you can penetrate the at-times-archaic language, I think this book will greatly enrich your life.	2004-02-15
US	22952028	R3NUJOZCOQ8RMK	0451525264	996904481	Les Miserables	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Excellent yet slightly inaccessible book	The famous Les Miserables comes in many forms, translations and editions. Mine was exactly 900 pages. I enjoyed the book very much except it's a text which you only start to appreciate about past the halfway point - so not for the impatient! Hugo's style is quite unusual for the moden reader due to his involvement in the literary movement of romanticism as well as his own ideosyncracies. For starters, today it is considered a rule of writing to &quot;show and not tell&quot;. This is a rule Hugo breaks often. However, I personally don't find the rule to be that valid - a good telling is better than a poor showing and besides rules of literature are meant to be broken. Les Mis deals with such an epic number of characters, places and events that to show every event would take 9000 pages! Secondly, Hugo is fond of digressions, sometimes over 50 pages long, on tangents. As a result it seems that they are either ramblings irrelevant to the story or essays inserted into it. The essay-like part I don't mind but either of them are something you'll have to get used to.<br />So overall, it's not an easy read and often you'll wonder if it's all just a useless exercise in grandiouseness. But then, the book will hit you and it will put everything you've read before into context and you'll realise how it all fits together in a sublime whole. Or at least that was my experience.<br />It's impossible to outline the plot of Les Mis in a review as it can only really be examined after reading it. It goes in directions never thought possible and takes off again and again. Basically it's about the life of Jean Valjean, an escaped convict who reforms himself but is still pursued by the law. He represents the great virtues Hugo was trying to get across and his persecution by the world (in hundreds of shapes and forms) is the tragedy of the novel. But the novel's title is translated as &quot;The Wretches&quot;. As such, it's main other preoccupation is with the unfortunates of French societyin the early 19th century. It is here that Hugo launches on his crusade against both society's oppression and human cruelty and on a reverse crusade promoting love and compassion.<br />There are many major characters but all can be exemplified by Cossette - a young orphaned girl mistreated by her adoptive family who are a bunch of criminals. But then, Jean takes her away and shows her life...<br />This is a wonderful book about the depths of suffering and redemption, both on a personal and social context. Despite its many faults, I found that as soon as I finished reading it it was very moving and made all the book's faults seem to exist for a specific/sublime purpose.	2004-02-14
US	22952028	R2YIL0CFGV229	1886969353	480391615	The Essence of Shaolin White Crane: Martial Power and Qigong	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A fabulous and in-depth book	This is a book about the essence of the White Crane Chinese Martial Arts. Not forms, techniques or weapons but the essence. As such, it tries to describe the qi and jing aspects of White Crane and give examples of training them. The book is intended, in my opinion, for the intermediate-letel martial artist. The reader should already have some concept of what qi and jing are - if not and you still want to read this book (which is very useful nonetheless), it is suggested that you look in at some dictionary-type definition which would save much confusion.<br />The book starts with an intro into Chinese Martial Arts and Qigong - history, practice, the specifics of the White Crane style and moral philosophy. This is very detailed and quite different from other mainstream accounts.<br />Next comes the qigong section. In it, Yang first describes his theory of the science behind qi and qigong. Even if you don't agree with his ideas, it's very interesting as an extended scientific treatment of qi is very rare. Then, it provides exercises for White Crane Qigong - hard and soft and within each of those - stationary and moving.<br />The same is done for jing - it's explained scientifically first and then exercises are given. Yang is very good at cautioning the reader to take due caution if performing any of the exercises here. I think it's best to select a few only and do these for a long time.<br />This is a very detailed book that will get you thinking about the essence of whatever art you practice (as a practitioner of Choy Lee Fut which is very different to White Crane, I found the book invaluable anyway) and will remind one about the essence of an art as something contained in the varying expressions of energy specific to that art (and not external things like forms which systemise those energies). The book is an inspiration to every practitioner.	2004-02-06
US	22952028	R1SDUA00RLEXV7	1852307897	609355870	The Art of Shaolin Kung Fu: The Secrets of Kung Fu for Self-Defence, Health and Enlightenment (Health workbooks)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Good intro to Kung Fu	This is an excellent book for those that want to get an overview and perspective on the Chinese Martial arts. It is invaluable in highlighting the importance of things like finding a good master, focusing on the application of a few techniques, understanding forms rather than learning them and remembering the internal and ethical aspects of martial arts.<br />However, it also has specific training tips which would not be very suitable for those without a master. In the book, Wong states specifically that it's a bad idea to follow a training course from a book. But then, he contradicts himself by offering specific training suggestions which, good as they are, aren't very suitable for the beginners that his book is for.<br />For scope, the book covers Kung Fu history, styles, basics, the principle of forms and applications (with the five animal form), strategies, weapons, chi and the philosophy of Chinese martial arts. As such, it is a great way of plunging the reader into the world of Kung Fu and it seems that Wong is a very proficient exponent of his art. So a very worthwhile read for a beginner but it's only to be used as a stepping stone to finding a master and lots of hard training.	2004-02-06
US	22952028	R1QMDHLSLHZGLV	0201570793	488839183	The Creative Loop: How The Brain Makes A Mind	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A great and accessible book	This book is a theory in the field of cognitive science that's presented in a way accessible to people who haven't had much experience. The book focuses on creative thinking, which is a nice change from the much-adopted discipline of analysing largely the &quot;rational&quot; parts of the mind. <br />The main premise of the book is that creativity is enabled by a feedback loop in the brain, whereby what we see is interpreted very basically and that information fed back to the sections of the brain dealing with vision. This enhances what we perceive as important in the object and also makes seemingly simple things like vision very subjective.<br />The book does tend to be a little too broad and all over the place at times but there's still a unified organisation. There are plenty of diagrams and references to culture and mysticism in terms of the function of the brain. Overall the book isn't brilliant but a very worthwhile read.	2004-02-04
US	22952028	R2JBNAMPPW3JSJ	1854876988	468684224	Lost Worlds	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A great book on the secrets of ancient civilizations	This book explores the many secrets, speculations and sensations surrounding the various world civilisations. However, rather than being a New-Agey book that focuses on the esoteric &quot;mystical traditions&quot; this one is more concerned with facts, documents and archaeology. Only in the last few chapters does it spin off into lunacy but even then it's presented as only a theory.<br />The book is very extensive, with 28 chapters, each one covering a different civilization meaning that most of the world's lost worlds are here. There's the traditional expositions on Egypt, the Mayas and Atlantis as well as lesser known places such as Zimbabwe and the Etruscans.<br />Overall, an excellent introduction into the archaeology and mysteries of ancient and not so ancient worlds.	2004-02-04
US	22952028	ROCSXZQPEZ84I	0060922583	161060786	The Holographic Universe	Books	3	8	11	N	N	Interesting and flawed	Yes, this book is an interesting and enjoyable read. And it will expand your horizons and make you think differently. But this comes at the price of plausibility.<br />The book is centred aroud the theory that our universe is a hologram. The physics (largely at a quantum level) is explained well, as are the implications. These are divided into explaining unusual happenings to the mind and body as well as space and time.<br />The problem is that the book, while not a New Age text as such, gives too much credence to events that aren't generally accepted in the scientific community. And when a book relates itself to the scientific method, it can't then go on to describe how the hologram theory explains miracles, almost taking their existence for granted.<br />With a grain of salt however, it's delves into a very interesting question: what if everything (matter, space, time) is like a hologram - transient, malleable and self-contained? An enojoyable question to answer.	2004-01-30
US	22952028	R2JDAU5RAQNT4Q	158574283X	973378740	The SAS Fighting Techniques Handbook	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Excellent intro to special forces	This book provides an interesting and informative overview of the special forces for the layman. It describes their training, equipment, missions and tactics in great detail. The author writes accessibly and uses plenty of examples from 20th century special operations and warfare.<br />The best thing I found about the book is the diagrams. It literally has hundreds of diagrams of specifics. For instance, it presents layouts of common ambushes used by small-size guerilla teams, a cross-section of a typical hostile border crossing and a plan of the angles and arrangement with respect to a landing site. There are heaps and heaps more diagrams, tables and stories.<br />The book covers logistics, borders, land, sea and air operations, contingencies, counter-terrorism and intelligence. A great read for all who've seen plenty of thrillers and are eager for the real thing - which is even more interesting.	2004-01-29
US	22952028	R1DRGBOMQSWWUU	0425091635	591308559	The Right Brain	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A great addition to cognitive theory	&quot;The Right Brain&quot; is a book which explores fully the capacity, function and potential of that hemisphere in our daily lives. It is generally well known that the left hemisphere is the logical and verbal one. The right hemisphere, the creative and intuitive one is much less known and hasn't been studied to the extent of the left hemisphere. This book changes all that.<br />It proposes many ideas that suggest that the right brain is much more central to our very being than previously suggested. It also proposes for society to take steps in educating specifically the right brain. I agree with this as most of education is very left-brained and clinical, quantitative, dry and in opposition to creativity.<br />Those who aren't very interested in the details of the science won't get as much out of the book because a large chunk is devoted to experimental evidence, tables, charts and the like. It's however written very well and there are plenty of illustrations which for a book about the right brain not to make full use of would be a tad hypocritical!<br />This book will make you understand the mechanics of your creative capacity more and will make you appreciate the non-verbal. The studies, especially those of damaged brains and spli-brain patients are also fascinating.	2004-01-28
US	22952028	R3JMCB38EO5YQU	0859697827	954413812	Body Language: How to Read Others' Thoughts by Their Gestures (Overcoming common problems)	Books	3	11	14	N	N	Useful and interesting	This book serves well as a layman's introduction to reading body language. Its method is to build up a base of individual signs and what they mean and then get the reader to practice reading those signs together as clusters. Sketched pictures accompany the text throughout and are useful. There's a chapter for the major body parts such as palms and eyes as well as behaviours such as mirroring.<br />A great intro to get you thinking about body language and the way space is used to create a covert message - and it pays to be perceptive in life!	2004-01-28
US	22952028	R19A1IUM0COWXN	0006375952	686635283	City of Djinns	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A brilliant and funny book	After Dalrymple's amazing first book &quot;In Xanadu&quot;, &quot;City of Djinns&quot; is a very worthy follow-up. It deals not with a journey but with the author living in Delhi for and extended period of time. William and his wife Olivia live in an apartment in Delhi with a Sikh lady and her crazy husband. Together and separately, they explore the various strands of the city.<br />Like &quot;In Xanadu&quot;, Dalrymple combines erudite historical investigation with a humorous account of life today. The historical aspect of the book is very complicated. Delhi has an ancient Hindu history, a Muslim Mughal one, a Punjabi/Urdu one, the Partition phase and its modern story. In this book, Dalrymple tries his hand at digging through a bit of them all. From the violence of the Gandhi assasination riots to the extravagances of the Mughal court, he leaves nothing unturned.<br />His warm and clever perspective shines light on a city where so many cultures and ways of life come side by side, from the modern secularised Sikhs (like Balvinder, their taxi driver) to the huge hermaphrodite community in the city. A highly informative and entertaining book.	2004-01-27
US	22952028	R3EES14RQSM8ZZ	0006544150	602126684	In Xanadu	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A modern-day epic journey	This is an excellent first book by someone who's made quite a name for himself in travel writing - William Dalrymple. &quot;In Xanadu&quot; relates his journey following in the footsteps of Marco Polo to Xanadu, the old capital of the Mongolian empire. This was accomplished while he was a student at Cambridge and he got the idea because this was the first time most of the Karakorum highway was open to travellers, enabling him to follow about 80% of Polo's route for the first time in centuries.<br />The author (with two friends, one for wach half of the journey) went from Jerusalem through Cyprus, Syria, Turkey, Iran, Pakistan and China. Throughout his journey he researched the traces of Marco Polo and the other aspects of history. As such, he inserts lengthy historical digressions into the book. It's recommended that you persevere with them as they make the reading so much richer.<br />He writes with an energetic and lively humour. The journey was one to have made it impossible not to produce outrageous situations. They encounter every trouble imaginable from Red Guards to sickness and go through seemingly every mode of transport.<br />A great way to see 12000km and over five countries through the eyes of an eccentric and erudite your Scottish historian. A fabulous read that will leave you hungry for more Dalrymple.	2004-01-26
US	22952028	R2RDGEIF5HG4MM	0283978945	843553767	St.Francis of Assisi	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A great, secular biography	Francis of Assisi is one of the most famous saints of the Catholic church. The image of him preaching to the birds is one that's encountered quite frequently in the popular imagination. His generosity, simplicity and deep spirituality have been a source of inspiration for people worldwide. He is considered to have been the first famous person to attempt to imitate the life of Jesus in every way imaginable, living in total poverty and preaching humility and the kingdom of God.<br />This book presents a biography of the man rather that the saint. This can be seen from the title which omits the word &quot;Saint&quot; before Francis' name. As such, it presents a rational and scholarly account of his life. Throughout the book, it takes as sources the various religious/canonical accounts of his life but only in terms of concrete incidents as opposed to the more religious side of things such as miracles.<br />The book with a background on the religious/political times. It then relates Francis' troubled childhood and adolescence up until he became devoted to God. The book narrates the rise of the Franciscan order from a bunch of like-minded people to an official order, struggling to fit into the framework of the Catholic church. The later events of his life, such as his abdication, travel to the Crusades and attempt to talk to Saladin were something I found particularly fascinating. These events aren't as widely known and make you realise that Francis was a giant of his time. The book ends with his death and the accounts surrounding his stigmata and canonisation.<br />Unlike many scholarly accounts, this one isn't dry but I found reads very well. The author is of a sober nature, appealing to everyone. The historical background is presented in a way that those without much prior knowledge still understand the happenings in the book.<br />Overall, it presents a secular portrait of a dreamer and mystic who could not find a place for his absolute poverty and humility in an organisation that ruled Europe. His death, where he was hounded by people proclaiming him a saint and not allowing him to die in peace (already carving up the body mentally relic-wise) was particularly moving. A great book!	2004-01-25
US	22952028	R2AMFOJ2BZLJJ9	0521558727	403631008	The New Knighthood: A History of the Order of the Temple (Canto)	Books	3	28	34	N	N	Full of facts but too scholarly for	This book is a good source of information for the serious student. If you have a good knowledge of medieval and crusade history then this book will trace the order of the Templars through all the political, military and ideological contexts that the order existed in. It will provide you with sources and chronologies and will explain what the Templars did, why they were such an important force and how exactly they were able to achieve what they achieved.<br />If you're not familliar with the background, like me, you'll probably find this a hard read. The book reads like a textbook, peppered with footnotes, dates and places which obfuscate if they're totally unfamilliar. For me, it felt like much of the text was going in one ear and out the other.<br />The book's chapters fall into two categories. The first half is more chronological referring to the history of the Templars. The second half is more topical, to do with aspects of Templar life (their network, social structure and beliefs), as well as a description of the Templars in the popular imagination. For someone being introduced to the Templars, the second half will be much more interesting and accessible. For history buffs, the first half will be very informative.<br />If you're looking for a detailed, scholarly account, this is the book. If you're a layman seeking an introduction, go elsewhere.	2004-01-24
US	22952028	R3VEADB5XKEAPE	0425152251	380749586	Sophie's World: A Novel about the History of Philosophy	Books	2	2	4	N	N	Annoying	The concept of this book is fairly interesting. A teenage girl begins to receive letters from a stranger. He introduces her to philosophy in terms of a chronological study of the major philosophers from the Greeks to the likes of Sartre. As such, the book describes an easy approach to philosophy for a teenager and it presents itself also as such.<br />However, it all became too much for me. The whole thing is quite pedantic. Most readers of all ages will not be able to identify with the characters Hilde and Sophie very well. As such, the actual story (outside the notes on philosophy) is basically a backdrop and definitely reads as such. As for the notes, they may be regarded well by some but patronising by others. When the major thoughts of a philosophical school or personality are reduced to ten pages of pop-style explanations (which in itself isn't a bad way of presenting it), it requires excellent organisation to make the text both representative of the philosopher and interesting. Gaarder has done neither in my opinion.<br />A mildly useful read in terms of acquainting oneself with the major philosophers. There are many better texts for that purpose though.	2004-01-23
US	22952028	R1AIVOTK978WG3	0330296671	705101610	Travels In Hyperreality (Picador Books)	Books	3	22	24	N	N	Interesting collection of essays	Many readers will probably be attracted to books like these after reading and enjoying Eco's novels, especially The Name of the Rose and Foucalt's Pendulum. If so, be warned. As I discovered, the Eco of the essay is NOT the Eco of the novels. Both Ecos are eccentric, clever and witty. However, the Eco of essays is a more radical and postmodern thinker. His topics can be seen by some as mundane. He's interested in pop culture and some of his theories are a tad obscure.<br />This collection is a series of loosely connected essays by Eco. It's an interesting book to read not cover-to-cover but to read an essay once in a while until the book is finished. That way the attitudes can sink in. The biggest fault I found with the book is certain essays to do with semiotics have arguments that are complex and hard to follow. This is understandable as they're taken from more specialised publications whereas in the novels, he strives to bring his ideas to the general public.<br />The essays I found to be most likeable are Travels in Hyperreality (about the proliferation of wax museums in the US and the general obsession with replicas in society), Reports from the Global Village (a series of essays on media), an analysis of Casablanca and In Praise of St Thomas (Eco's PhD was on Thomas so his views can be seen as fairly authoritative).<br />A good read but not brilliant.	2004-01-23
US	22952028	R1J2ZMSO7YJUK7	0156029065	99041831	Baudolino	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Not as good as Rose or Pendulum	This is a good book by the master of complicated and erudite historical fiction - Umberto Eco. However I found that it wasn't as good as The Name of the Rose and Foucalt's Pendulum both of which I consider amazing. This novel is about Baudolino - born into a peasant family in rural Italy, he is adopted as a pseudo-son by Fredrick Barbarossa (Holy Roman Emperor). This is due to Baudolino's charm and ability to spin a yarn and manipulate. The book takes place at the end of Baudolino's life when he tells his story to a historian from Constantinople in an attempt to immortalise himself and make sense of his life.<br />Like Eco's other books, this one contains a plethora of historical information. Here, the scene is mainly Italy's faction states, Paris and the east (Constantinople). However the book's mystical geography (ain't there always one in Eco's novels?) is concerned with the kingdom of Prester John. In the middle ages, he was believed to have been a benevolent Christian king with a kingdom in the east that was about to help liberate Jerusalem from the Muslims from the other front. Baudolino and his friends spend decades obsessing over that kingdom. They pore over arcane documents, make conjectures and finally go in search of the land.<br />Part of Baudolino's specialties is lies. He lies to everyone but believes his lies to be for the sake of a greater good, which they often turn out to be. His simple, no nonsense approach with Barbarossa is what earns him a place as his adopted son. What makes the book interesting is the way in which it describes how his fabrications were behind some famous historical events and ideas of the time.<br />The main flaw of this book compared to Eco's others is the ending. Rose and Pendulum had I thought tied loose ends brilliantly - some questions were answered unexpectedly, others left open and the result was an amazing yearning to make sense of a beautiful story. In this book, I didn't find the final revelations as profound. Therewas a giant question mark as to Baudolino's lies that I thought would make the book brilliant if dealt with - but it was a disappointment. To say more would spoil the book.<br />Still it's a very enjoyable read and thoroughly recommended to Eco/medieval/Prester John/Barbarossa buffs.	2004-01-20
US	22952028	R15HDN9RZV9YBI	0330284142	444581246	The Name of the Rose (Picador Books)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A great fusion of scholarship and entertainment	The famous Name of the Rose has been on the market for ages now. People generally tend to either love it or hate it - and I belong to the former category. I think that it makes for great reading.<br />The story of the book is about an educated monk in the 14th century (William Bakervile) and his novice-monk protege Adso. They come upon an abbey in the mountains of Italy for William to participate in a conference. However, their stay is complicated by a series of murders in the abbey which William and Adso begin to investigate. As a result, they step on some toes and disturb some powerful and vengeful ghosts.<br />The book is a hybrid. It can be seen as a detective story told in a very erudite and philosophical manner OR a book about semiotics, history and meaning disguised as a detective story. The book explores many medieval worldviews on the nature of humanity, religion and civilisation (as expressed by the characters). It speaks in detail of several topics related to Christianity - such as the poverty of Jesus and his laughter. It's amazing how such seemingly above-the-world ideas can be an integral part of a murder investigation!<br />But the main focus of the book is on knowledge - largely represented by the library in the abbey which contains a great collection of arcane and mystical texts.<br />I found the book very enjoyable to read as it combines intellectually dense material with a popular, almost pulp-like way of presenting it. As for people who accuse Umberto of being pretentious in his descriptions, in this book I think he sometimes gives more information than one would ask for to make the reader look deeper into the story (probably most useful for rereading). A great, clever, funny book - and a very modern medieval tale!	2004-01-19
US	22952028	R2YL9AVNW8VYAR	0345368754	276635923	Foucault's Pendulum	Books	5	13	15	N	N	As good as the Name of the Rose	I enjoyed this as much as the Name of the Rose. It's different in that it has a different focus but the focus is still an informative and entertaining one. Unlike the Name of the Rose, this book is set in modern-day (1970's) Italy. The historical and arcane context is one of people today looking back at history.<br />The book is about three academics who get together based on their common interest in subjects such as the Templars and their trial, secret societies, mystical traditions and Kabbalah. They set up a publishing house for books of the occult, part of which involves a desire to publish the most crazy theories, in order to entertain themselves about how stupid some beliefs are. However, then they decide to formulate a theory of their own. They make up a Grand Scheme, the Great Conspiracy involving every major event and mystical society/concept from the last few centuries. The problem is - their theory starts to take over...<br />Many readers accuse Eco of being pretentious in the level of erudition of his prose. In this book, certain passages are especially of that nature, quoting obscure historical references, names and texts by the hundreds. But it's after reading this book that it becomes clear - it's a parody. This book is a great and genuinely funny parody of the New Age movement with all the occultism and gnosticism. No stone is left unturned in the quest to connect pieces of the world in an obscure way.<br />The book, like The Name of the Rose, is full of tension and lamentation on the limitations of knowledge and the like. But, it is much more funny and playful. There's the sense of modern-day irony which was harder to achieve in The Name of the Rose as that was from a medieval point of view. Finally, the book has a great, weird and unexpected ending that ties some ends together in a very interesting way.<br />If you've ever been interested in the occult OR cynical about it, chances are you'll absolutely love this book.	2004-01-19
US	22952028	R2YSND0JHMXHL5	0330410210	458212829	Mostly Brilliant	Books	5	11	15	N	N	How could such a small box house such a great series?!	For those who haven't heard of the Hitchhiker's Guide series, wake up to yourselves. It's by Douglas Adams and is extremely, clever, funny and ludicrous. It's a &quot;science-fiction&quot; series although there is nothing pertaining to science about it.<br />The series is largely about Arthur Dent - an ordinary man whisked off the earth just before it's destroyed to build and Intergalactic Superhighway. He discovers there's more alien species and happenings in the big wide galaxy than he could have ever imagines. The series is about the adventures of him and some aliens he crosses paths with. <br />For the uninitiated, the actual Guide to the Galaxy is a travel book, in the tradition of the Lonely Planet series. On the galactic scale, the earth is rather dull so at one point the entry only states &quot;harmless&quot;.<br />The books are very funny and easy to read. Written by a genuine smartass, a kind of blend of Monty Python and Star Trek, if you can characterise it.<br />The box set has all the books in the Trilogy of Five. Therefore, it's good - don't make the mistake of buying just the first book or even the first three as you'll almost certainly want them all. A great read from an amazing Adams.	2004-01-18
US	22952028	R3RWAS3CW5QV3W	0156012197	781565906	The Little Prince	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Magical, mystical, majestical	This review refers to the T.V.F Cuiffe translation which I was unable to find on Amazon. I don't know anything about the Howard translation.<br />This amazing book was written supposedly for children and it reads like a children's story. It's also beautifully illustrated. However, it meant much more to me when I reread it as an adult than as a child. I could say the book is an alegory and that it contains much symbolic value but it would debase it's melancholy beauty to attach academic terms to it.<br />The story is about the narrator, a pilot just like the author, being stuck in the Sahara waiting to repair his plane. He meets the little prince who hails from a tiny planet that's not much bigger than him. The book relates his solitary existence at his home, his travels through the other asteroids, inhabited by single individuals such as the Geographer (which can be seen as archetypes) to his arrival on earth culminating in the relationship with the pilot.<br />Again, saying that the book is about life, loneliness, love, friendship and finding one's true nature would be missing the point (one which the book beautifully mentions through the mouth of a fox) that the most important things are not said in words. The book has no \\"themes\\" as such but it's a fully integrated work. The pictures are as important as the text and contain so much kindness, humour and irony (as does the work itself) that this work is an absolute must.	2004-01-17
US	22952028	R1JX9YZGQF4R6I	0099279320	638098276	The Godfather	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A great pair of books	This volume contains two of Puzo's works. I think the first deserves 4.5 stars and the second 3 stars so overall it's about 4.<br />Noone hasn't heard of The Godfather. Almost everyone has seen it. The movies (I and II) have been acclaimed as some of the greatest films of all time. The Godfather in novel form more than lives up to the expectations that in most adaptations the book is better than the movie. The story follows the rise of Michael Corleone as the Don of his mafia family. Michael is an unlikely Don who starts off as a college-graduate and war-hero who is ashamed of his family's illegal ties. But then circumstances changed...<br />The book has one better on what the movie has been accused of - gratuitous length. Godfather I and II are both very long and the attention to detail detracts from the attention spans of the more impatient viewers. But a novel is expected to be long and detailed - in fact it's not too long by literary standards.<br />The book covers Godfather I and parts from II which talk about Vito Corleone's beginnings as an Italian immigrant. It also has many plotlines that aren't in the movies. The greatness of the book is that it creates a whole world of emotion - with the loyalty, betrayals and murders. The book ties in subtle parts of the plot together making you see things that watching the movie aren't at all obvious (like the intentions of certain characters and the motivations for their behaviour). If you liked the Godfather movies at all or are interested in the workings of an Italian crime family at it's grandest, this book is gold.<br />The Fortunate Pilgrim is more of a drama. It tells the story of Lucia Santa - an immigrant widow living in a small appartment in New York and raising her children. This book exposes the reality of the life of immigrant Italians in all it's harshness, with the very tight budgets and subsistent living, domestic violence, a clash between the traditional Italian values and modern American ones, the generation gap and the temptation of crime.<br />This is characterized in Lucia's children. The daughter is an assertive, educated type determined to become big in the real world. One of the sons is a womaniser and all-round good guy. The other sons are archetypes of kids growing up during the depression. A moving, though at times slow book.<br />If you want to see and enjoy the different sides of Puzo as a writer, this novel is ideal.	2004-01-17
US	22952028	R20IZQE94EV8XX	0679735771	92932803	American Psycho	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Disturbing, confronting	American Psycho is a chilling tale of Patrick Bateman - a trendy, young and athletic New York stockbroker. He eats in the finest restaurants, can afford the finest things and has trendy, young and athletic friends. And he's a psychotic serial killer.<br />This book has given rise to a great deal of controversy...<br />The book is written in first person and in the present tense, which I found the most interesting. It makes it easy to read while at the same time you get as close as possible inside the mind of Bateman. At times the narrative gets into a stream of consciousness style but at other times it is chilling and how clear and matter-of-fact Bateman is when describing his life.<br />This book is accused of committing the most heinous sin imaginable - that of misogyny. Personally, I don't think that's the case. Bateman is the misogynist - not the author. And certainly as a reader you aren't likely to finish the book wanting to kill and rape women unless you're already a psycho. It is however very very graphic and not for the fainthearted. .... However, it is the fact that the narrator is Bateman and hence there is absolutely no condemnation of Bateman's actions in the book that makes YOU the reader condemn them all the more.<br />The defect is repetition. Yes, it's in character for Bateman to occasionally ramble but the 350 pages could have been 200 and we'd still get as much out of the book. Still, a good novel, if you don't mind stomaching horror to see the true horror of a world where Bateman's outer behaviour is acceptable and secret behaviour possible.	2004-01-16
US	22952028	R2TDXO6WMU0QB0	042502976X	970125549	Food Of The Gods	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Throught provoking	The novel is one of the lesser known ones by Wells. It is about the discovery of a food that makes living creatures grow to a size that's many times larger than normal. The \\"food\\" is spread from its laboratory context and escapes into the countryside. After a number of years, this gigantism is a part of life in England with a number of people being on the food from birth.<br />The book does not focus on the scientific side of it at all, except in the first few chapters. Most of the rhetoric is about society and it's lack of acceptance of the giants. They just don't fit in with, say, the \\"proper\\" notion of life in an English village where ignorance and hypocricy rule. As a result, there is a much-provoked retaliation by the giants.<br />At its finest, the book describes the giants as symbolic of a new, grand mentality as opposed to the pettiness of the general populace. As such (especially as it uses the literal difference of size to symbolise more profound things) The Food of the Gods is in the tradition of satires such as Jonathan Swift's Gulliver's Travels and Rabelais' Gargantua and Pantagruel. In fact, one of the giants is given the nickname Pantagruel as a child. The book highlights intolerance and hatred as the line of distinction between ordinary people and giants is drawn across communities and families.<br />The novel is entertaining and inspiring. Wells is known for his grandiose visions of society's potential and this book is a great example. He inspires a revolution - but not an economic or violent one - but something that's in the next step in the evolution of ideas. Read this book!	2004-01-15
US	22952028	R2VAFMFIGT80VV	0451169530	825352881	The Stand: Expanded Edition: For the First Time Complete and Uncut (Signet)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	The mother of all apocalypses	This book is very widely known and with good reason. It's of epic proportions in terms of it's length (1400 pages in my edition), scope (an apocalypse wiping out over 99% of the population) and characters (a large variety of American archetypes). The story is told very well - at least in this novel King writes in a pulpy prose with frequent changes of scene. It works. We get a feel for the characters being spread out across the country all part of the same thread of fate. The only annoying thing about that for me was the beginning as it felt like he introduced a new character every chapter for like 25 chapters! But bear with it, they DO all appear later...<br />The story is one of desperation (the plague), death and rebuilding. From everywhere in the US, survivors come and gather. The book does a great job in making the reader feel as though they've walked the length and breadth and felt the pulse of the United States. They form a humble settlement. On the other side, in the desert of Vegas, a countersettlement of evil is spawned. The rest is history.<br />As mentioned before, the characters are the strength of the book. They're modern-day mythologies and the struggle between good and evil takes place on a very broad scale. There are almost religious overtones to it and by the end you're left feeling that everything (not only in the book but in life) has its place and purpose and that nothing is for no reason.<br />This book is true horror at its best - not hundreds of gruesomely killed corpses but a great exploration into the depths of desolation and evil.	2004-01-15
US	22952028	R1W3ZW5B6MEXC0	1578401968	55373605	First Men in the Moon	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Has its moments	Yes this work of science fiction obviously has flaws in terms of the believability of it all. But this was written in a time when subjects like space travel were considered very differently. I think part of the fun of reading Wells' work is how ridiculous some aspects of the story seem by mdoern scientific standards. But this does not detract from the work itself.<br />For me the most memorable part of the novel was the description of the aliens. As often, Wells has thoughts on our society which reflect in the work. The aliens are arranged in a strictly pragmatic system of breeding and the allocation of tasks where beings are educated with repect to what society needs them to do to the exclusion of everything else. Like an ant colony. And the character's account to their leader of life in human society is priceless - as if often takes the act of seeing our world through alien eyes to see how crazy some if it is.<br />As can be seen, this book has something to say on themes such as individuality and human worth - but since it's a work of science fiction is does not do this in a \\"look at me, I'm such a profound novel!\\" way that other works do (eg. Brave New World).<br />Not a masterpiece but is quite good.	2004-01-15
US	22952028	R1F1GUEJ3IHFJR	0345340426	669379389	J.R.R. Tolkien Boxed Set (The Hobbit and The Lord of the Rings)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	4.9 stars for the box set!	There have been few collections that have been held in such high international regard than the works presented in this box set. Even before the LotR movies, Tolkien was synonymous with THE original classic fantasy works and now they're absolutely huge. With this set, you'll get to see what the fuss is all about.<br />The Hobbit is a prequel to the LotR. It is considered a children's tale and indeed Tolkien wrote it for his children. However, it's still very enjoyable for the adult and forms a great, easy introduction the the Middle-Earth universe. It tells the tale of how Bilbo Baggins, Gandalf the wizard and a bunch of dwarves set out to &quot;rescue&quot; a treasure-trove of gold from Smaug the dragon. The journey takes, to my recollection, something in the space of a year. In the course they experience all the classic elements found in a fantasy world - giant monsters, weird and wonderful characters, fantastical battles, spirited and magical helpers and loathsome dungeons. And all this told in the most easygoing prose imaginable.<br />For more serious fans of the Middle-Earth universe, the linkups to LotR give the tale an extra twist of flavour. It is here that the Ring is first encountered, and it is here that we first feel the breath of the enemy...If you've seen the movies and want to read the books, The Hobbit is a great place to start.<br />The Lord of the Rings follows. It is not a trilogy but a series in six books, with appendices. It is a monumental work detailing the struggle of the Fellowship of the Ring against the dark forces of Sauron and the quest to destroy the Ring of Power. This is clear to those who've either seen the movies (95% of people I think) or heard of them (99.9999%). This is what the content of the books is. Except obviously there's much more detail and it's much more epic in the sheer number of obstacles that are placed in the path of Frodo and friends.<br />The thing that would probably be useful is the differences between the books and the movies. The books are very rich in extraneous material. It is said that one of Tolkien's main purposes of writing the series was to create a world with his own invented languages and populate it - the stories are just a background to the languages! The book contains a lot of mythology. There are a lot of poems relating to times gone by and current events (which I personally didn't find very readable). Overall, there are many profound and emotional parts in the book that aren't given much credence in the movie - a great feeling of melancholy and nostalgia over a world in deterioration. This is only touched on in the films with the atmoshere of the elves.<br />The book contains a lot of journeying and this will also be a new feature. Rather than just getting to places like in the film, the characters spend a lot of time in the day-to-day marches. It is here that you begin to learn and appreciate the natural landscape of Middle-Earth, from the plains of Rohan to the little ecosystem of the Shire.<br />The appendices will only be read by LotR fanatics. There are backstories of the kingdoms and lineages of noble families and notes on the languages. One thing that is recommended to browse through is the timeline, especially what happened to the fellowship after the events of the book.<br />Overall, this is still the great book about timeless issues pertaining to good, evil, courage and hope. But it also has the extra emotional and descriptive elements. There is something that is missing, although I'm not sure what, that stops it from being 5 stars in my opinion.<br />A great piece of literary history. Contains a whole universe that's as deep and rich as our one.and the movies. The books are very rich in extraneous material. It is said that one of Tolkien's main purposes of writing the series was to create a world with his own invented languages and populate it - the stories are just a background to the languages! The book contains a lot of mythology. There are a lot of poems relating to times gone by and current events (which I personally didn't find very readable). Overall, there are many profound and emotional parts in the book that aren't given much credence in the movie - a great feeling of melancholy and nostalgia over a world in deterioration. This is only touched on in the films with the atmoshere of the elves.<br />The book contains a lot of journeying and this will also be a new feature. Rather than just getting to places like in the film, the characters spend a lot of time in the day-to-day marches. It is here that you begin to learn and appreciate the natural landscape of Middle-Earth, from the plains of Rohan to the little ecosystem of the Shire.<br />The appendices will only be read by LotR fanatics. There are backstories of the kingdoms and lineages of noble families and notes on the languages. One thing that is recommended to browse through is the timeline, especially what happened to the fellowship after the events of the book.<br />Overall, this is still the great book about timeless issues pertaining to good, evil, courage and hope. But it also has the extra emotional and descriptive elements. There is something that is missing, although I'm not sure what, that stops it from being 5 stars in my opinion.<br />A great piece of literary history. Contains a whole universe that's as deep and rich as our one.	2004-01-15
US	22952028	R1ZGJV6ZSWLBZG	0142000272	289712823	Anna Karenina (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	A great work	I read the novel in the original Russian so this review is not about any edition/translation.<br />Anna Karenina is a masterpiece of epic proportions. However, much of the interest lies in the inaccessibility of the work and the difficulty with which we come to read it. It is set in 19th century Russia, amongst characters from the upper class. As such, we are removed from them by several levels. It is the story largely focusing on an adulterous affair between Anna Karenina and Vronsky. As such, many of the actions in the book seem to go against a normal notion of morality. This is because the book is an example of realism and as such presents an \\"unfettered\\" version of events with little ideological commentary. As such I had difficulty accepting many of the words and actions of the characters.<br />However it is a timeless story in the way it describes the psychological and emotional makeup of the characters in such tremendous detail. Even if some characters are unsympathetic, they are portrayed masterfully. There are too many characters and subplots to describe but let's just say the book gives a great overview of the whole of the upper class Russian society of that period (both in terms of characters as well as the scope of settings and events).<br />Many consider this to be the finest novel ever written. I disagree - while it explores the human condition very well I felt it lacked soul at times. Maybe because I like romanticism as a literary movement better than realism. So if you expect philosophical digressions and atmospheric, almost magical descriptive passages you won't find them here. Just a whole world built up one razonr-sharp scene after another. Also, again, I found some of the characters' behaviour excruciating in its falsehood and pretense. By the end of this book, one sees \\"high society\\" in all its putridness.<br />A great read and an important work - but not \\"THE novel\\".	2004-01-14
US	22952028	R1983P0XHLBEU3	7119006436	954549527	A Dream of Red Mansions (Chinese Classics, Classic Novel in 4 Volumes)	Books	5	59	61	N	N	The Chinese &quot;Anna Karenina&quot;	This book is like Anna Karenina in the following ways: Both are masterpieces of epic proportions. Both are considered contenders for being the greatest works of fiction in their respective languages. Both deal with large, upper class families and the lifestyle and intrigue involved. Both are works of realism and paint a complete picture of a society.<br />A Dream of Red Mansions focuses on the love between Baoyu, an unusual child in his early teens who is temperamental and spends most of his time with the girls in the family mansion and Daiyu, a delicate, sensitive and yet witty and extremely clever girl. The two grow up as children and live in the same mansion but the family does not hurry to marry them off as they have other plans for Baoyu.<br />This is the main thread that runs through the novel's amazing 120 chapters. The other sublots are very numerous - there are hundreds - but none of them are sustained for the whole book. The main part of the book is the set of characters. Again there are hundreds but a few main ones which become the most interesting in this drama. There's the conniving Xifeng, Baoyu's strict father, Baoyu's assertive &quot;other love&quot; Baochai and the like.<br />Unlike Anna Karenina, this book is full of humour, jokes and poems (which was where I think the translation failed the most as Chinese poetry rendered into English seems to lose the plot!). It contains moments of great sadness but also wit and quirkiness.<br />There's been controversy with the amazon reviews of this particular translation. I don't speak Chinese so can't judge it but reading the text, it seemed fine. I guess if I saw another or the original it would change my mind but this one isn't too bad.<br />The novel deals with so many topics that you really get an overview of what life in 18th century upper class urban China was about. It is VERY long but it's amazing how in relating heaps and heaps of seemingly trivial incidents you grow to love many of the characters. It's like most novels are like meeting someone and hence only seeing what they want to show while this novel is like living with them. And trivialities aside, it's very moving.<br />A must for all interested in Chinese society or who don't mind persevering through 1200 pages to read a one of the world's unusual and amazing dynasty chronicles and love stories.	2004-01-14
US	22952028	RIMXZNS371O26	0451527747	718203903	Alice's Adventures in Wonderland and Through the Looking Glass (Signet Classics)	Books	5	5	7	N	N	A warm, funny work	Alice in Wonderland and Through the Looking Glass are probably some of the most famous children's books in the English anguage. There are two ends to the spectrum of interpreting them.<br />On the one end, the books are seen as wonderful and innocent entertainment mainly for kids but also suitable for adults. It is innovative and chaotic and performs puns and wordplay on the English language as well as concepts. They are accompanied by great quality illustrations and have a sense of fun and adventure about them.<br />On the other end, the books are seen as elaborate allegories. Everything is symbolic. The tales are reminiscent of an LSD induced fantasy. Everything is Freudian and academic and open to postmodern interpretation and of course there's the disturbing question of Carrol's supposed obsession with little girls.<br />Having read - and loved - the books, I think the truth lies somewhere in the middle. Yes, they seem to be oriented primarily for children but that doesn't mean adults can't get anything more than nostalgia out of them. Yes they are rich in some symbolism but it is unwise to overanalyse and read too much extraneous ideas into them.<br />Highly recommended to be read as what they are - the product of an amazing mind, which saw the world of children as the ground in which to sow ideas both fun and profound. All the semi-philosophical talks, nonsense poems, fantastical creatures combine to make an unforgettable work.	2004-01-14
US	22952028	R3VUN9CIZM1UNN	1853260118	474714897	Tom Sawyer & Huckleberry Finn (Wordsworth Classics) (Wordsworth Collection)	Books	4	11	11	N	N	A great book for all ages	This is a collection of two books that are often considered for children. However, they are suitable for both adults and children. The kids will love the adventure, the wonderfully irreverent and humorous view of childhood and the characters with their loyalty and friendship. The adults will also enjoy the satire of life in the &quot;proper&quot; lower middle-class society of the South with the sendups of hypocricy, false religiousity, racism and slavery and the like.<br />Tom Sawyer is probably more oriented for children than the other one. Here, the focus is Tom, who is largely a child prankster. His romantic ideals of doing things like running away to be a pirate are the source of great amusement and reflection for him - and worry for his family.<br />Huckleberry Finn has more adult themes. Here, the mockery of society is much harsher as Huck escapes from his abusive, drunk father to sail down the Mississippi with Tom and Jim (a runaway slave). Along the way the get to see the best and worst of what America on the river has to offer.<br />These books should be treasured and deserve their fame. Twain informs and relates in a totally entertaining and warm way.	2004-01-13
US	22952028	R2X5CN1BGFG9CL	1853260037	823772714	The Complete Father Brown Stories	Books	5	34	35	N	N	Very refreshing examples of crime genre	The mystery story is exemplified by the Sherlock Holmes stories. Those who haven't read them will probably know much about them from the way they have (justly) been added to the public imagination. So a good way of describing the Father Brown stories is to compare the two, as the images of Holmes are probably known to all.<br />Holmes is a private detective. As such, his main objective is to solve the crime. Father Brown is (obviously) a Catholic priest. His objective is to serve God by trying to better society. These two goals say a lot about how they go about solving crimes. Unlike Holmes, Brown gets close to crimes by accident (yes, that's a big suspension-of-disbelief) - as they happen amongst the families and coworkers of friends. He does not seek to &quot;catch&quot; the crook for the police but rather to find out what happened. At times, he lets the criminal go - and unlike the grumpy Holmes his speech (full of philosophical discussions) and actions reek of a love of humanity.<br />Holmes solves by logical deduction. Brown solves by a combination of intiution and a deep insight into character and circumstance. As such, the crux of many of the stories is psychological. Others rely on assumptions that people make about, say, people subservient to them. The Brown stories are therefore great satires of the early 20th century London society.<br />This edition has 18 stories - a quite eclectic collection and very recommended if you haven't encountered Brown before. The first one (the Blue Cross) introduces him marvelously as one of the great detectives.	2004-01-13
US	22952028	R14WNN7NBHIMV4	0140430229	363288838	Gulliver's Travels (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	The original satire	This book is probably the best known full-length satire of society. In it, Swift mocks what he feels to be the all the iniquities of the 18th century. And of course, it's far from being a children's book.<br />There are four voyages and only the first two are known in the popular imagination. In each voyage, Gulliver goes to a country/countries that are radically different from those known and stays with the court/government learning about the country and sometimes helping out.<br />Part 1 is a voyage to Lilliput. Here, the people are very very small. This is the most well-known part, containing famous satires such as that of the Big-Endians and Little-Endians. The small characters generally satirise the characteristic of pettiness.<br />Part 2 is a voyage to Brobdingnag. Here, the people are very large. As such, they satirise the opposite quality - that of being overbearing. Here, Gulliver is paraded as a pet.<br />Part 3 is a voyage to Laputa (and other islands including Japan). Here, Swift mocks scholarship and science. Each of the several islands has a peculiar trait to do with science. Here, you'll find such classics as the novel-writing machine and the country where the linguists decided that words are too indirect to communicate being signs of signs so everyone carries a large sack of objects to point to in direct communication - which sounds like something from a modern academic, except this is interesting.<br />Part 4 is a voyage to the country of the Huyhnhnms. Here, Swift departs from tongue-and-cheek and becomes biting. The country is a utopia populated by benevolent horses and the humanoids are wild and uncivilised so they're &quot;looked after&quot;. As a result of the horses' brilliance, Gulliver becomes disgusted with the human race after seeing the difference. Obviously like all parts of the satire this is not to be taken literally - that Swift despised people.<br />That's the basic content but nothing can describe the joy, humour, wit and imagination used in the book. It has everything and is an absolute must for anyone who's ever saw something funny/wrong with society (ie. all).	2004-01-12
US	22952028	RDV8SDOPHPYMP	0393950344	175734036	Tristram Shandy (Norton Critical Editions)	Books	5	80	82	N	N	An 18th century modern novel	This work is OLD but reads like the most innovative avant-garde novel of today. The book is about Tristram Shandy and his birth, his uncle and his war wound and his father with his love of names and noses. Seriously! This is the original story-with-no-story and the beauty of the book is in the way that it's written. In reality, Sterne talks about anything and everything. He makes digressions lasting 20 odd pages, rambles to the reader, apologises for rambling, then discusses how he plans to get the story finally under way.<br />The book is out of order chronologically. One of the funniest things about the book is that it's meant to be an autobiography of the fictional Tristram. Half the book is spent telling the story of the day of his birth. Then, the author moves to another scene, mainly revolving around Tristram's uncle Toby and the novel finishes several years before Tristram's birth.<br />Sterne's writing is chaotic resembling a stream of consciousness. Sentences run onto the other, there's heaps of dashes and asterisks being used for various purposes. Sterne adds scribbles to signify the mood of the character. When one character dies, to symbolise his end, Sterne has a black page to describe it. When introducing a beautiful female character, Sterne says he can't be bothered describing her so he leaves a blank page for the reader to draw his/her own rendition.<br />The book - though technically not a satire - in the process of going nowhere and saying nothing makes fun of many religious, political and societal topics. Sterne was a minister but from the book it can be gleaned that he was a particularly irreverent one.<br />The work is divided into 9 books, published serially. This is a work where you can just pick up a chapter and read it. Some are several pages. Others are two lines. It takes a while to get used to Sterne's writing &quot;style&quot; so read slowly. This goes for the whole novel as there's so much hidden underneath the surface.<br />This editionis great in having footnotes on the same page and reviews of Tristram as well as critical essays and Sterne's own letters about the work - many of which are very good. <br />Tristram is funny, ridiculous, clever and very very eccentric. An absolute MUST!	2004-01-12
US	22952028	R89NG3OIYL48M	1853260681	27779639	The Hunchback of Notre-Dame (Wordsworth Classics) (Wordsworth Collection)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	One of the best 19th Century novels	Yes, the many misconceptions about the book have been highlighted by other reviews so I'll only mention them briefly. The original title was Notre Dame de Paris. As such, the book does not focus on Quasimodo but on the cathedral and medieval Paris and the stories that have intertwined there. The book is not about not judging people by their looks.<br />Having said that, let me add that this is one of the richest and best novels I've read. The book is everything that the movie versions seem not to be (I say seem as I only know of them from reviews). It focuses on obsession, passion and revenge. The main plotlines are Frollo in his obsessive quest for both the arcane knowledge and Esmerelda, Frollo's brother in his tomfoolery, Captain Phoebus and Pierre Gringoire - an unlikely addition to the events.<br />The book has a lot of philosophical viewpoints. There's the mysticism and theology of the passages of Frollo, with his reading of the cathedral as a grail of arcane wealth to be uncovered. As such, his views reflect many bizarre philosophies of the middle ages.<br />One of the greates aspects of the book is its descriptions of medieval Parision life in all of its unsplendour. There's the public performances, executions, thieves, raids, brawls and the like. And out of all of that, Hugo still manages to pull images of beauty like Esmerelda with her pet goat.<br />Hugo's digressions are something that nerages many readers but I liked them. Firstly, what he's saying is of interest - his view on the aesthetics and ethics of the Gothic movement and the development of civilisation are certainly impassioned. As to those who think they don't belong in a novel, that seems to be a very constricting and removed-from-art view of what a novel is. Yes, it slows down the story but so do words. The only one I skimmed was the detailed description of the streets of Paris but again that's because I've only been once briefly and if I'd known more it would have spoken more to me.<br />Read this book! You'll learn so much about medieval life, the Gothic movement, the nature of obsession and evil and the quest for knowledge that the cathedral of Notre Dame will gain a whole new significance.	2004-01-12
US	22952028	R39TQQ6BOG1H02	0828899738	920578805	Ascanio	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Great periodic piece	This doesn't reacch the level of Dumas greatness to the extent that the Count of Monte Cristo and the Musketeers series does. But then again, it doesn't try to. This novel is a more humble, low-key (if such a thing can be said of Dumas!) piece. It's based in part on the life of the historical figure Benvenuto Cellini. Cellini was a goldsmith, sculptor and man-on-intrigue. The book is centered around several years where he lived in France and worked on commisions for the King.<br />The story is made by the intrigues between Cellini, Ascanio (his protege), the King and the ruthless Mademoiselle d'Etampes. As always with Dumas you get action, romance and history. A great read.<br />A very interesting comparitive study is to read this along with Cellini's autobiography, which is available widely and is the most famous Rennaisance autobiography - to see the more historic Cellini at work and to get an insight into how Dumas used history to create his works.	2004-01-12
US	22952028	R2NPX9WJUEZ73R	1592247709	669513277	The Talisman by Sir Walter Scott, Fiction, Literary	Books	4	36	43	N	N	Great historical fiction	I read this when I was a kid and reread it recently and it's an absolute pleasure! The book deals with the period of the Crusades. It's set in the deserts around Syria/Palestine. The armies of the Crusaders have set up camp after a temporary truce. King Richard the Lion-Heart lies ill and members of the European nobility are scheming to make a profit at the expense of the Crusade. Around all this, a knight (the main character) is sent on a mission to negotiate a potential peace with Saladin.<br />This book has the classic images of the Crusades: duels, secret convents hidden in the harsh, craggy rocks of the desert, hermits, sultans, kings, dukes, Nubian slaves, conspiracies, Arab doctors and the like. It makes fascinating reading and reveals a lot about the imagination of Scott and his time.<br />This book is one of Scott's less famous works but very undeservedly so. I think it's as good as Ivanhoe.	2004-01-12
US	22952028	R19ZR9EP074OMN	0140440496	126824467	The Autobiography of Benvenuto Cellini (Penguin Classics)	Books	3	6	7	N	N	An entertaining autobiography	Cellini was one of the most famous jewellers in the Rennaisance. He was also a sculptor, connoseur, lover and fighter. Not too blessed with modesty, this book filled with intrigue and mania is fascinating reading. Cellini is hedonistic and yet passionate about his art. We get to see a whole slice of papal, court and artisan society in Italy. Cellini is imprisoned and makes escapes, attempts on his life are regular and yet he continues to make amazing commissioned work.<br />The reason I didn't give the book more stars is because it is at times difficult to understand and appreciate. Much of the details with respect to the alliances of Cellini's Italy are hard to follow for someone who doesn't know that much about the Renaissance. Also, he does seem to be a little overbearing on occasion. Still, a great read.<br />My original acquaintance with Cellini was with Alexandre Dumas' \\"Ascanio\\" - where he takes the autobiography as a basis to spin his usual tale of high suspence. As a comparison, reading this and then Ascanio is a pleasure.	2004-01-12
US	22952028	RYG285DGX00K6	1853262021	259828480	Ivanhoe (Wordsworth Classics) (Wordsworth Collection)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Classic historical fiction	The book is set after the Norman invasion of Britain. It revolves around a large number of events such as the usurpation of the throne of Richard the Lion-Heart by his brother, the struggle for Saxon resistance against the Normans, the kidnapping of a beautiful girl from a Jewish family, the knights tournament and the struggle between the hero and a Templar Knight (the main villain of the book). There are castle sieges, tournaments, duels, jousts and the descriptions of obsession, greed and tyranny. A true melting pot of events with heroic characters - a great read.	2004-01-12
US	22952028	R1QVTERY01JMKL	0140449302	981115146	The Decameron (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	21	24	N	N	A great bag of stories	An Italian version \\"Canterbury Tales\\". A simple premise: there's a plague in Florence and 10 affluent young people (7 women and 3 men) decide to sit it out in the countryside. To amuse themselves, each one has to tell a story each day. 10 days, 10 people = 100 stories.<br />This is a great book in reading about medieval life in an amusing, non-dogmatic manner. There are tales of trickery that rival the Arabian Nights in their ingenuity. There are tales which relate to agriculture, injustice, knighthood, love and valour. Some of the days have all the tales on a specific topic.<br />One theme that I found most interesting was the treatment of sex. So many of the tales deal with it and it's done largely in a slapstick and carefree manner. This book is a sign that no church or social norm was ever successful in suppressing the popular erotic imagination in Europe. But even so, the licentiousness of some tales (in relation to the time they were written) surprised me - there are stories of amorous encounters between clergy and the opposite sex, of homosexuality, of multiple affairs etc.<br />Some of the tales are too long as they're stretched out to fit a literary style reminiscent of the medieval romances. But I found almost all the stories to be interesting.<br />As a note, I read the translation by Aldington which was very good but it feels to me after reading this work that many translations on the market would be just as good.<br />Thoroughly recommended and thoroughly entertaining!	2004-01-12
US	22952028	R1WW7JDIPX0RA2	1840221070	885451196	Gargantua & Pantagruel (Wordsworth Classics of World Literature)	Books	5	15	19	N	N	Fabulous	I was gonna compare this one to Don Quixote to see another reviewer beat me to it! Well I shall anyway.<br />Both are one of the first examples of novels, both are extremely long, both are successful and funny satires of society (in this case of the 16th century) at large.<br />The difference is this book is much less philosophical and more slapstick. It has less high concepts and more toilet jokes. But that's what I found great about it! It is much more farcical and is about the furthest you can get away from realism. The author does not try to be consistent in terms of scale (the book - made up of five books - chronicles the life of the giants Gargantua and his son Pantagruel) but that's the point. Every conceivable historical figure and literary work is mocked.<br />I think this is one of the first postmodern works(!). Rabelais experiments with heaps of different text types, he has certain chapters which are lists of things pertaining to happenings (like insults hurled by two characters at each other - over 100 in all) etc etc. He goes off on tangents, talks about all the topics on earth from scholarship to sign language. And the antics of the characters are hilarious.<br />Personally I found this just a tad better than Don Quixote (4 stars). Yes, this book is also a tad too long. But it's actually five books and with short chapters on diverse topics, you can just pick it up and read another chapter. The translation is great, using white space and punctuation in a very unique way and highlighting the comic nature of the book. In fact, Urquhart's translation is a masterpiece in itself.<br />A great, great book to knock down your sense of decency and pompousness.	2004-01-11
US	22952028	R1HTDV09ZUAH5X	0330300326	12435871	Republican Party Reptile	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Good collection of pieces	So far, I've had the pleasure of being an O'Rourke reader for this one and Parliament of Whores (more will no doubt follow). Republican Party Reptile isn't as good if you appreciate PJ for the way he does a detailed analysis which is still funny and controversial - as Parliament was a very organised, topical book. This one is a bit too much of a random knapsack for that.<br />That still makes it a great book as his pieces will drive home his views on drugs, politics, cars, drugs, international relations, teenaged girls, crime and fast cars. My favourites were Ship of Fools (a bunch of lefties and peaceniks cruise the Volga in the USSR during the Cold War, PJ is with them), Ferrari Refutes Decline of the West (PJ and boss get to deliver a Ferrari from NY to LA over several days of high speed cross country), Holiwood Etiquette (a great take on the neurosis etc) and How to Drive Fast on Drugs While Getting Your Wing-Wang Squeezed and Not Spill Your Drink (self explanatory I trust!)<br />So if you want to acquaint yourself with an earlier, more personal PJ, this book is good.	2004-01-11
US	22952028	RSRGJBJHYFC2L	1853260363	655554658	Don Quixote (Wordsworth Classics)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	One of the great novels	This is a mammoth of a book. Spanning about 750 pages of small text in my edition, Don Quixote tells a story of how the Don became crazy from reading too many knight-romances and imagined the world to really be like that. Together with his faithful squire Sancho Panca, they traveled through Spain getting into adventure after adventure and beating after thrashing.<br />That's the basic story. But the book has long ago been heralded as a profound one. Indeed, the two main characters are one of the strongest western archetypes. Firstly, it satirises texts like epics and romances which were very popular in the Middla Ages. Secondly, it presents Quixote's misguided idealism juxtaposed with the pragamatism of the world at large. As a result, we grow to love him and empathise with him. There may be no damsels in distress to save from monsters in Quixote's Spain but we still think of him as a noble spirit. This, I think is one of the main points of the book. Thirdly, the book being so long and complete gives so many details about life in Spain that it's an interesting feature in itself.<br />The translation I read (Motteux) is ok but at times quite hard to follow. Be warned that the text is not an easy read! But the way it's told is rich with stories within stories and everything has a both a point and satiric value.<br />The only reason I don't give the book 5 stars is that it really IS too long. I know Cervantes had all this to say but it gets a little counterproductive to have the Don struggle through sooo much. Still, I don't recommend abridged versions as so many incidents contain a gem that will get you to either smile or shudder that it's worth struggling through the masterpiece.<br />All must read this amazing book. Funny, tragic, great.	2004-01-11
US	22952028	R2JORY0TD4HT43	1853267333	543411005	The Count of Monte Cristo (Wordsworth Classics)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The best plot in literary history.	Enough good things can't be said of this book. It is rightly considered Dumas' masterpiece. The story in a sentence is how a man named Dantes is falsely accused and imprisoned thanks to the machinations of his treacherous enemies, escapes jail, comes across a fortune and spends many a year spinning a sweet, sweet revenge on all.<br />Of course the brilliance of the novel can't be described. It truly is great in its descriptions of the machinations and the motivations of the characters, as well as its insight into the human condition, second to few. Just because a book was published serially as popular fiction doesn't make it less worthwhile than the most pompous novel. The book explores the moral justification of Dantes in his revenge.<br />This is a work where the hundreds of details come together (nothing being told for no reason) to pack a powerful punch. As such, no abridged version will ever do. It's long but it's a good read and worthwhile. A must.	2004-01-11
US	22952028	R2J9NTABC2HDS0	1853260258	627065254	The Odyssey (Wordsworth Classics)	Books	4	1	5	N	N	A true classic	The Odyssey is considered the world's first novel. Of Homer's two works (the other being the Iliad) the Odyssey is the more modern one, often reading like an action/adventure movie. If hase been the source of limitless inspiration in western art/literature.<br />The story is simple - Odysseus has a ten year journey to return home from the siege of Troy (which is the subject for the Iliad). He has many encounters (the most well-known in popular culture being the sea sirens, Charbrides and Scylla) and returns home to find his estate in disorder and his wife plagued by suitors, the general opinion being that he's dead. Revenge follows.<br />This is a great story as it winds through so many twists and turns and changes of scene that you're left with the feeling of having travelled through the ancient Mediterranean. The translation, while probably not idea, is good at rendering this as a story - the prose form and language make this easy to read.<br />Thoroughly recommended!	2004-01-11
US	22952028	RZC43GYPLP989	1853262420	627065254	The Iliad (Wordsworth Classics)	Books	2	14	16	N	N	Great story - bad translation	I dunno about other people reading this but it was a struggle. The book itself is a deserved world classic which relates the story of the siege of Troy. However, most people associate that battle with the wooden horse incident so be aware that the book does not cover that period! It ends before it. The incident is referred to in Homer's Odyssey and fully told in Virgil's Aenid.<br />The story itself is one of powerful archtypes in the characters of Achilles, Agamemnon, Hector, Priam etc. The war itself is supplemented by the gods taking part and the premises of this epic poem are psychological, philosophical as well as the kick-butt action scenes.<br />However, I found this translation quite bad. The text is very dense. I know the original is dense as well - but at least the Greek has poetry. When a classic is translated, much of the poetic beauty is lost so as a result, it should at least be made readable. But this one isn't. The text is set out as prose but with very long paragraphs. The language is archaic - one can't follow an already complex piece of text with \\"spake\\" occuring every second. Also, at least in my copy, there were heaps of mistakes. I mean books have typos but in the bad parts a page might have 6 or 7 which is bound to get annoying.<br />So definitely read the Iliad but look for a better translation.	2004-01-11
US	22952028	R2U2W6SFDPDS8L	0192835572	803182242	Rights of Man, Common Sense, and Other Political Writings (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	3	25	40	N	N	Good collection but the texts are rambly.	This volume contains all of the principal works of the great mind of Thomas Paine. Although technically not one of the Founding Fathers of the US, his thoughts on liberty and the purpose of government have influenced the world. He lived in a time when democracy was in its infancy and so much of his views are particular to the newly formed governments of the US and France. But still an interesting insight into politics. He can generally be considered a libertarian.<br />The most famous works in the volume are Common Sense, Rights of Man and the Letter to the Addressers of the Late Proclamation. The texts are sufficiently annotated and there's a chronology of his life. If politics are your thing and you want to read about the forming of America, this is your book - it shows Paine's politics at their finest.<br />One word of warning - this isn't an easy read. Paine is often wordy and rambly. Often his texts have account ledgers - which is understandable for the time they were written but today break the flow of the work. The writing is dense and his points could have been made in half the number of pages. If this doesn't deter you, you'll find an inspiring read about the rights and responsibilities of people and government towards each other.	2004-01-10
US	22952028	R1I0TOSABBGIIP	0752902458	849899610	Gothic Treasury of the Supernatural	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Great mix of novels!	This volume contains a very good selection of six novels - all on a gothic/supernatural theme.<br />The first is the Castle of Otranto by Horace Walpole - considered the first gothic novel - it's really an extended short story. It was written in an amazing 1529! - and is about a possessed castle. The prose is quite laborious but many works of fiction from that era are quite wordy so no translation will turn them into an easy read. It's rewarding though, especially for fans of gothic fiction to see its roots and bare elements in the book.<br />The second is Frankenstein by Mary Shelley. All have heard of this one and it probably conjures up an instantaneous vision of Boris Karloff staggering around. The actual novel, however, is a brilliant journey into the depths of psychological horror and explores the philosophical implications of suffering. An excellent and very rich book - will be a surprise to those who only know the movies!<br />The third is the Strange Case of Dr Jekyll and Mr Hyde by Robert Louis Stevenson. Not my favourite of his work but still an interesting story about an addictive potion which temporarily turns a respectful man into a fiend each time he drinks it. Then the fiend wants to have more than the occasional appearance.<br />The fourth is the Picture of Dorian Gray by Oscar Wilde. Again, a very famous novel though not strictly a gothic one. The theme of the supernatural is related in terms of the actual picture - which ages instead of Dorian Gray giving him a seemingly eternal youth. This allows him to spend decades wallowing in corruptness. The novel is a delicious analysis of hedonism and if you're into witticisms mixed with a complete philosophy of selfishness and pleasure (or even if you're not) this is a great read.<br />The fifth is the famous Dracula by Bram Stoker. Again, mostly known by it's movies it's a very suspenseful book that portrays the age-old evil of Dracula very well. It is slightly more profound in written form than the movies but the difference isn't nearly as dramatic as in Frankenstein.<br />The sixth and last is the Turn of the Screw by Henry James. I've yet to read that one but I heard that it's considered THE classic gothic story.<br />So overall, a great collection as if you like the gothic/supernatural stories from the 16th-19th centuries, there'll be at least a few novels in this package that you'll love.	2004-01-10
US	22952028	R365I1H6HACJ4H	0330323695	248860003	Parliament of Whores: A Lone Humorist Attempts to Explain the Entire U.S. Government	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Excellent book	For those who are sick of left-wing comic/journalist types (Michael Moore, Al Franken etc etc) having the monopoly on political laughs, you'll find O'Rourke a great alternative. He's a conservative  journalist who's also very funny. His views range from the comically/farcically cruel to the middle-of-the-road views so everyone will find something to both agree and disagree with.<br />In this book, he disects the US government, with an essay addressing each aspect. It's amazing how he makes facts and statistics about things like fiscal policy fascinating, humorous reading. And you'll learn something too. He talks about things that are rarely explored in mainstream media. If you've never read anything by him, this is a great book to start.	2004-01-10
US	22952028	R3JUG8MFRP9IZ2	0140447520	604725626	The Prince (Penguin Classics)	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Not as relevant to today as is hyped up	This is a good book of advice for the aspiring 15th century ruler. As such it contains practical advice about being ruthless, seizing power and making sure that your enemies don't have the chance to regroup. It gives plenty of examples from Italian and European history. It speaks of the principles of ruling with the aim of acquiring a strong, independant state.<br />However, I disagree with people's claim of the book's brilliance and relevance to today. Obviously there's the ethical aspect of what the book says but everyone can judge that for themselves. I mean the way it was written. There are a lot of passages which refer to specific dconditions of Machiavelli's time, and without much knowledge of the history of the period, I became lost at times. After all, much of Italian history of the period is this pope being allied with that city and betrayed by that emperor and everyone killing everyone and so forth. If you do have the historical knowledge, you'll enjoy the book that much more.<br />If you want an even clearer, more ruthless statesman book and one that doesn't tie itself to a particular time period (and is hence MUCH more universal and frightening) try the Book of Lord Shang.<br />This is still a pretty good and informative read. The translation seems ok, nothing spectacular but still good to read.	2004-01-10
US	22952028	R3HOYHRUOOQBYC	1582880123	492075739	The Essential Plato	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A good package of Plato	Yes the translation is public domain but this volume is good for people who like to have a printed version. Also, it a great collection of Plato's dialogues so unless you want an edition with the complete dialogues, this is one of the best bets for an anthology.<br />The translation itself is over 100 years old and is at times archaic. The lack of speech punctuation for the dialogue eg in the Republic is perplexing. Still, it reads fairly well and presents a unified take on Plato. Whether that take is accurate or not is another story.<br />The major works presented are the Republic and the trial and death of Socrates (Meno, Euthyphro, Aplogy, Symposium etc) in their entirety and selections from dialogues such as Laches, Critias, Sophist. The volume ends with a selection from each of the 12 books of the Laws. For those looking for contextualisation, there's a detailed introduction for each dialogue - a plus if you want an edition that's not too cluttered by foot/endnotes but still want something more than just the text.<br />Overall, a pretty good edition - if you're not a serious Plato fan.	2004-01-10
US	22952028	R1SM91EGHWFHCL	0451516265	337991686	1984	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Fabulous!	The best anti-utopian book imaginable!<br />And yes, there are many and a lot of them take themselves too seriously and are quite pompous. 1984 also takes itself seriously but it has a right to. It is so well written that gravity is the only appropriate sentiment in a very dark world.<br />Most people have heard of Big Brother and the Thought Police and the hype over and over again. Is 1984 really that good? Yes!<br />The most moving scene for me was at the end, when a character succumbs under torture to betray someone (hope I'm not giving too much away - after all torture and betrayal are compulsory ingredients in an anti-utopia anyhoo) and the empathy portrayed in the book was so strong that I got depressed because I felt like it was ME that just betrayed everyone I care for.<br />A wonderful book, a must read especially since it can be done in a day (and should definitely take no more than 2!). Unlike the anarchists and conspiracy theorists who reckon 1984 is especially relevant &quot;in today's global climate&quot;, I say it's a book for all time.	2004-01-09
US	22952028	R237EWK54ZJQUR	0192835017	44395049	The Koran (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	3	17	19	N	N	OK translation from outsider's point of view	The Koran is a classic of Arabic prose and poetry and a key religious texts. However, it has yet to be introduced to the west in an accessible and accurate way (at least on a large scale). This translation does some of the work. It was made I believe in the 30's so some of the language is a bit archaic for today. Nevertheless, it often employs good expression. The author himself admits his work is poor echo of the original.<br />The book is typeset like poetry, with various changes of tone indicated by changing the layout from a more prose-like one to one with more narrow stanzas. There's also much white space. This is a very positive point as most texts, especially translations, ignore white space as a crucial feature in understanding.<br />A noticable defect is total lack of commentary. Unlike other religious texts, the Koran is structured around a context that isn't present in the text (whereas say the Bible provides many historical accounts as opposed to just reflections on them without the stories). The Suras are arranged roughly in descending order of length, not by topic or time. As a result, reading from cover to cover you jump around in time and place hundreds of times. So a bare, unannotated translation means a lot will be missed. Even a simple introduction to each of the 114 Suras would have done well, but alas.<br />A good bottom-line version for those who aren't Muslim and want to read the Koran from a secular point of view and don't have time to get into the details. If you want anything more, look for another translation.	2004-01-09
US	22952028	R22BV0K10AR57M	0140440275	903822584	The Imitation of Christ (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Excellent view of a spiritual Christian life	Whether you're a Christian looking for inspiration in your faith or a non-Christian after an amazing insight into the spiritual side of the church, this book won't disappoint! It is generally a pretty easy read with short chapters on defined topics. As such, the translation seems quite good. Thomas a Kempis soaks the pages with the love and peace that he has acquired from hir religion. The book contains many moral and ethical lessons on peace and humility that as needed in our world as ever. And this is done in a tone that is far from the dry dogmatic style of many other Christian fathers.<br />It's easy to see why, outside the Bible, this has been one of the most popular Christian books!	2004-01-09
US	22952028	R1OW2WQHU2HEPF	0451526341	380925201	Animal farm: A Fairy Story	Books	3	5	7	N	N	Not nearly as good as 1984	With all the hype I was a little disappointed with Animal Farm. The premise is good - an allegory where farm animals take over their human masters, set up a government and satirise the excesses of left and right wing dictatorships in the process.<br />However, it does get a little silly. And I don't mean that it's written a bit like a children's book or a fairy tale - that's the point. I think that the satire is often about as subtle as a sledgehammer. It is a tad repetitive which is ironic because it mocks the songs and anthems of the Animal Farm as repetitive propaganda. Seems that Orwell had some anti-propaganda propaganda of his own.<br />The idea of the Animal Farm is a great one but would probably have been better as a short story. It just doesn't sustain the impact over 100 pages. To see a satire/allegory that does one only has to turn to the classic Gulliver's Travels by Jonathan Swift.<br />So, an interesting book - but good, not great.	2004-01-09
US	22952028	R1MPN4QFBTOAME	0330375466	510295481	Them: Adventures with Extremists	Books	4	11	13	N	N	Fabulous investigation into conspiracy theory central	This is a book written by a journalist about his humorous interviews with extremists, and the penetration of terrorist organisations. The point he gets across is that much of the extremist-hysteria is just that, and he does this by telling stories of the KKK knight who forbids his followers to use \\"the n word\\" so as not to tarnish their image and the Islamic terrorist in London who hands out pamphlets preaching jihad and gets people to take them by saying they're about sex.<br />Besides these scattered stories, there's an overall theme of thee author's attempts to unmask a greater conspiracy - one of a club to which belong most of the world's major leaders and businessmen. In the finale where he stumbles onto a ceremony...--read the book!<br />He seems to be serious and I don't know how much of this is true, especially the grand conspiracy. But it's very thought provoking. If you're not the type of person who would take him literally and think all extremists are this funny/stupid/harmless and that the fascist state is just spewing propaganda to have a scapegoat (a nice conspiracy in itself!) - then you'll really enjoy this book. If you are that types of person then no book can help you!	2004-01-09
US	22952028	R2QSY4BDXIUBOL	0192835254	515889367	The Bible: Authorized King James Version with Apocrypha	Books	4	84	98	N	N	Excellent yet secular edition	This edition presents the famous King James translation of the Bible wrapped in a scholarly and quite secular package. The book starts with an introduction to the history of the biblical canon as well as the history of the King James translation. The fact that the edition is liberal shows through when they do not talk of the KJV as some inerrant truth but as an excellent yet flawed and ideological.<br />Then, the entire KJV is reproduced with its well-known features: an introduction which describes the spirit and method of the translation, a summary of the each page's contents at the top and an interesting rendering of words which were inserted by the translators to make the reading more smooth in italics.<br />This edition includes the Apocrypha (the books that were considered deutorocanonical and eventually removed from the KJV Bible) - another feature that the more religious readers may find objectionable. However, to present a scholarly overview of the Bible, this is a must, especially as the Apocrypha is almost the length of the New Testament. To portray historic continuity, the Apocrypha is placed in between the two testaments.<br />The volume ends with notes on each book in the Bible, in the order of this edition. It is here that the naturalistic and historical point of view is best seen. However, religious readers will find plenty of points of interest here as well.<br />Due to the completeness of the edition, it's almost like a stand-alone intellectual presentation of the Bible.<br />Great value as there's so much content and unless you're a very devout believer this edition is perfect!	2004-01-09
US	22952028	R1O840GPTEJ2H1	014044114X	30170986	Confessions (Penguin Classics)	Books	3	10	28	N	N	Good but not the greatest Christian text	The Confessions is one of the most popular texts from the Christian fathers. It is the famous story of how a pagan and sex addict went on to become one of the highest ranking clergymen and most influential thinkers in the early Catholic church. <br />The translation is quite thick and dense to get through but I'd imagine that the original is 10 times more so. If you don't trust your attention span, look for a more \\"accessible\\" version, if you want a challenge this edition's good.<br />A Christian, especially a Catholic will find the story inspiring, as it is often very appealing to the average person. His autobiography centers on the emotion and struggle that was related to his faith. The other main topic of the book is Augustine's theology. At this point, again a Catholic reader would probably be inspired, especially because it's possible to see the root of many modern doctrines laid out in the book.<br />More liberal Christian readers may find the book a little dry. The theology may seem a little heartless at times - after all, Augustine can be seen as the theologian who forever deprived unbaptised dead babies of heaven. However, his supplications to God and the like may still find a connection in a liberal reader.<br />The non-Christian reader (like me) looking for inspirational material, info about early church history and the basics of theology may be a tad disappointed. Personally, I didn't find the book that inspirational because it seems that each story is told in a fairly homiletical manner to reveal a fire-and-brimstone dogma. The philosophy in the book is quite good but not absolutely groundbreaking, from a non-Christian point of view. If you're looking for a more emotional and inspirational work from a Church father, Imitation of Christ would be a better choice.<br />Overall, a good book for everyone, although some readers will get much more out of it than others.	2004-01-09
US	22952028	R2LCGXE2DQTRHL	0140442286	542491450	Mencius (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Great Book, Great Translation!	For those who don't know, Mencius was a disciple of Confucius's philosophy - probably the most famous. He helped spread it by adding his own flavour to the theories. This book presents them. It is easier to read than the Analects, in my opinion, as it presents much longer and more coherent paragraphs many of which are like stories. As a result, less time is spent getting acquainted with the background.    One of the key features of Mencius that separates him from Confucius is the book of Mencius has a lot of philosophical argument and rhetoric that is quite sophisticated from a cursory reading (with Confucius, much of the sophistication is apparent only if you know the text EXTREMELY well). Mencius was a keen maker of illustrations in arguments. This is the book that contains the famous argument taht human nature is fundamentally good because a person seeing a child on the edge of a well about to fall in will initially be compelled to run and save the child.    Basically, there was a sort of split in the interpretation of Confucianism. Xunzi believed that humans are essentially evil (or at least selfish) and therefore it is necessary to have ren (benevolence), li (ritual/propriety) and fa (law) to enable them to develop themselves and overcome their base urges. Mencius went the other way, considering people essentially good (as can be seen in the well example). He would see evil as a result of corruption by society, and ren and li as tools to enable one to develop their true nature. From reading his work though, I think he was far from naive and he certainly did not have an idyllic view of humanity. Rather, Xunzi and Mencius seemed to be advocating the same kind of philosophy and there is not actually that much difference between them. But Mencius is the more optimistic and hence more pleasant to read, and it is perhaps because of the sense of optimism that he was adopted by the Chinese as the more authoritative Confuscian in ages to come.    The translation is great and makes the reading easier. There are useful appendices at the end which give the background in a logical way (eg a section on Mencius's view of history).    A great find!	2004-01-08
US	22952028	R28HIY3FXEL1YI	0804818460	300669097	The Quest of Enlightenment: A Selection of the Buddhist Scriptures (Wisdom of the East)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Good starting selection	This book works if you want a no-nonsense, naturalistic approach to the basics of Buddhist texts. As such, this book has translations of texts relating to the Buddha's birth, enlightenment, the famous first sermon in the deer park and death. Mixed in are some varying stories with a moral basis as well as poetry such as the Formula for Welfare.<br />Then again, this is a small book of the gift-book variety so don't expect great gems. A good focus on Buddhist texts as sources of wisdom rather than enlightenment.	2004-01-08
US	22952028	R124TSNHQSQ4C8	0340175702	431796855	One Volume Bible Commentary	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Interesting range of thoughts	This is a very tight and concise commentary on the Bible. There are entries to each book, in the same order as they are found in Christian editions. There's a small section which overvies the Apocrypha. Because this is one volume, this is by no means a verse-by-verse analysis. It is at best a section-by-section analysis and sometimes a whole book is covered in one page (eg. Song of Songs). As a result, it can be seen as a good introduction into Christian thought on the Bible. <br />The book obviously presents an ideology as espoused by Neil and the fact that he is so selective with what he spends his time on is very revealing. He is of a fairly liberal point of view with respect to the Jewish Canon, often seeing it as little more than a symbolic precursor of Jesus. He also takes a liberal point of view with respect to the details of authorship of these books. His analysis of the New Testament, especially the Gospels is much more detailed but still often there is a concession that certain things are symbolic - things which many of the more traditional believers will take literally.<br />If you're looking for a basic overview of the Christian view of the Bible, this book will help. If you are a more traditional Christian you'll disagree with much of the book's ideology and statements.	2004-01-08
US	22952028	R245AIXH91EBPQ	1571740562	916454618	Conversations With God : An Uncommon Dialogue (Book 2)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Preachiest of the series	Presumably you've read the first book in the series. The second one concerns itself with global issues - ones affecting the planet. As such, this is the one I found least inspiring as I felt much of it was a vehicle for the author to spout his own political views. <br />On the other hand, they are still presented from a philosophy of book 1 and so even if you disagree it will get you thinking about alternative solutions to humanity's problems. Also, the book will foster a caring for people which is good for any political persuasion.	2004-01-08
US	22952028	R14TB66SLNAS0Q	0804830886	446477170	Gentling the Bull: The Ten Bull Pictures, a Spiritual Journey : Comments Taken from Talks by the Venerable Myokyo-Ni	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Profound yet rambly	&quot;The ten bulls&quot; is a classic Zen text which consists of ten pictures to do with an oxherder capturing and taming the bull thereby achieving enlightenment. Each picture has an associated poem. These are renowned for their simplicity and make a great Zen text having few words.<br />All this is changed in this book, where each of the ten pictures is made a chapter. The chapter starts with a copy of the picture and several poems that go along with it. What follows is Myokyo-ni's prose to do with the content of the picture. On the plus, her text provides a lot of insight into both the nature and practice of Zen as well as the human condition. On the downside, unless you're an actual Zen practitioner you might find some of her views too radical, as I did. Also, I enjoyed the ten bulls because it has no fixed meaning as a text by itself whereas reading this book has anchored it to a specific meaning which differs from my interpretation.<br />You'll get the most out of the book if you're serious about your Zen. If not, this will be a lively and thoughtful (although at times disagreeable) window into a world that is so misrepresented in modern society.	2004-01-08
US	22952028	R18YDSNOZS41SX	014044131X	524015341	Tao Te Ching	Books	3	22	32	N	N	A good but not great translation of a very special work	The Tao Te Ching is one of those hyped-up texts that come about with the proliferation of the New-Age establishment. One can walk into most bookstores to be hounded by dozens of editions, finely illustrated, with plenty of white space, printed on unbleached, acid-free paper, almost saying \\"buy me, simplicity and enlightenment beckons\\". So, to cut away from the hype into reality, there are two issues - what's the actual text like and how good is this edition?    The Tao Te Ching is a very short text (I think about 5000 characters in Chinese). It is one of the primary Taoist texts but it has been used in many, many other contexts since. It's attributed to Lao Tzu, the sage of Taoism, although scholarly opinion about authorship varies widely. It opens with a line that can be translated as \\"the Way that can be named is not the Way,\\" so it's quite impossible to convey the principles without breaking them. The general analysis is that it accentuates simplicity, intuition, the under-dog, adaptability, spontenaiety and harmony with the universe. And these all seem to be at least partially, true while of course missing the unattainable essence as all analyses of the work must. Some of the teachings are certainly radical in interpreted literally (\\"exterminate the sage...and the people will benefit a hundredfold\\").     Ultimately, you can draw a lot of meaning from this and debate it for hours. Religious Taoist interpretations aside, we don't really know what it's about ultimately. Is it a political manual and a method of ruling by wuwei (a concept that can be translated as actionless action or natural action)? Is it a personal guide to surviving the uncertain social era during which it was composed? Or is it a guide to personal spiritual fulfilment and being in harmony with the natural flow of things (when the text advocates harmony with nature, by nature it seems to mean something a bit different to what most people today mean). It's probably some combination of the three. Certainly if one gets nothing else from the book than the oversimplified philosophy of being spontaneous, not too cerebral and not resisting things too head on, it would make a very worthwhile read.    As to the edition, it has plenty of white space (this time, sarcasm aside, I think that's a very underrated aspect of works, especially translated ones) and no notes as to the various interpretations leaving one uncluttered but at times confused. The translation seems good, but any translation is bound to be flawed and Tao Te Ching ones ESPECIALLY as the Chinese is just so concise, playful and purposely ambiguous that any attempts to render it into another language are bound to break the ambiguity. This edition is a good introduction for someone with no ideological predisposition because it is quite down-the-middle. It avoids a flowery overplaying of how \\"profound\\" the work is supposed to be and lets you read and judge for yourself.	2004-01-08
US	22952028	R1L3QPU2E8XGS7	1885203535	678288116	Wisdom of the Zen Masters (Wisdom of the Masters Series)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	A pleasant surprise	Most New-Agey type &quot;picturebooks&quot; with few pages and much white space, which consist of a few sayings are a bunch of garbage. However, I was pleasantly surprised that the Zen quotes selected for this one were actually interesting and valid. Some of the images set the tone well, others are just fillers.<br />Get it if you want to be exposed to a wide range of quotes many of which will probably be new and if you can find the book for a good price as there's only so much content a small 60 page picture book can have.	2004-01-08
US	22952028	R2J500BRPIKAE2	1570620636	21156452	Zen Flesh, Zen Bones (Shambhala Pocket Classics)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The best intro to Zen	A great book for those who wish to become familliar with Zen in a closer way than its current overhyped and false pop-culture portrayal. This book contains many important texts that are at the same time not too heavy and generally fun to read (true of many Zen texts)<br />The first part is 101 Zen stories, some of which are taken from koans. Of these, most either contain some insight into the Zen thought (though that is an oxymoron!) while others give a view of classical Zen life as it happened in the monasteries and countryside.<br />The next part is the Gateless Gate - a classic collection of 48 koans. This is enough to get the essence of what a koan is but don't expect to even scratch the surface with a simple reading! A thing of particular surprise to those who've heard of Zen only from the media is the use of violence in the koans. This is what I find most disagreeable with them, even conceding that this is not meant to be literal. whatever your opinion, these aren't for the faint-of-mind<br />Next comes the classic of 10 bulls - ten pictures which tell a symbollic story of an oxherder catching and taming the bull. The version of the images used here is my favourite because of it's utter simplicity, akin to minimalism. Of the texts in the book this one approaches the Zen ideal of essence without words closest (as the main part is the images themselves). The poetry accompanying the images divine and well worth the price of the whole book.<br />The last part is a Hindu scripture which is said to speak of similar things to the Zen masters but honestly didn't do anything for me.<br />As you can see, a great book containing so much in so few words. Whether you're after something to exercise an often neglected part of the brain or wanting to learn about Zen or wanting to become an actual practitioner, it's a perfect start!	2004-01-08
US	22952028	R3R90H4U152Q64	0140194886	407198227	The Book of Chuang Tzu (Compass)	Books	5	18	19	N	N	Five stars aint enough!	Fantastic!<br /><br />Chuang Tzu is considered to have been a follower of the Taoist school of thought, influenced by Lao Tzu. However, we know much more about Chuang Tzu. He can be said to fit the classic ideal of a Taoist as a carefree ascetic with a sense of humour living in the forest in harmony with nature. This is certainly the portrayal of him in the book.<br /><br />It is unclear who wrote the work and many authorities consider only the first few chapters as authentic. That's why it's good to get a translation that covers all the chapters as from reading them it's possible to get the feeling that even if are were a forgery, they are a worthwhile, beautiful forgery.<br /><br />What is Chuang Tzu's philosophy? This is a question that has plagued people from religious Taoists to scholars for ages, because there is no definite answer but a number of strands. However, he is certainly a critic of contemporary society in terms of what he sees as a life that is too complicated. He is critical both of language as a means of pinning down concepts and civilisation in terms of corrupting people by creating rigidity. Many see him as a moral relativist, but I think he was just an advocate of a simplicity and \\"naturalness\\" and thought that moral labels only tended to make people more immoral.<br /><br />The other concept I loved was wu-wei or \\"non-action\\". Unlike the cryptic nature of it in the Tao Te Ching, here, Chuang Tzu shows us through a series of misfits, cripples, ascetics and the like - all of whom figure as characters in his stories. Many of them survive and thrive through some kind of skill they've developped which doesn't require much intellectualising. When they're lost in their work (say trapping cicadas), they are happy and achieve success by not struggling, hence wu-wei. For starters, this highlights better than almost any other text I've read the intrinsic dignity of lives that are radically different to the norm in that they can still be worthwhile and fulfilling if we open our minds and see their essence. But Chuang Tzu was concerned in applying that kind of not-overly-intellectual action to government, which is also fascinating.<br /><br />The edition has some footnotes but the book itself is large sections of narrative/prose/poetry that requires little external explanation. The translation probably leans towards poetic paraphrase over precise equality which I think is good for classic texts. The illustrations are great and really enhance the value of the book as a coherent whole.<br /><br />A book of moving, funny, sad, chaotic, intuitive parables, stories, allegories and anecdotes that feel like they're speaking to you directly from over 2000 years ago.le and fulfilling if we open our minds and see their essence. But Chuang Tzu was concerned in applying that kind of not-overly-intellectual action to government, which is also fascinating. <br /> <br />The edition has some footnotes but the book itself is large sections of narrative/prose/poetry that requires little external explanation. The translation probably leans towards poetic paraphrase over precise equality which I think is good for classic texts. The illustrations are great and really enhance the value of the book as a coherent whole. <br /> <br />A book of moving, funny, sad, chaotic, intuitive parables, stories, allegories and anecdotes that feel like they're speaking to you directly from over 2000 years ago.	2004-01-08
US	22952028	R12VEDF4WMSHZR	0399142789	916454618	Conversations with God: An Uncommon Dialogue, Book 1	Books	4	3	6	N	N	Excellent book for all kinds of people	I read this book a few years ago and it's interesting to write a review looking back on it. The book contains a range of great insights which have personally helped my life in a number of ways. The most important of these has been spiritual calm in certain times. However, I now look on the whole series with a grain of salt - certainly I would not recommend treating this book as the guide for living. I don't think it was intended to be viewed as such. But reading it while knowing that, like most people, you'll pick and choose things out of it to help you will mean that you read it with an open mind.<br />This first book in the series is the start of the conversation and deals with introducing the concepts that are developed in books 2 and 3. As such, it focuses on questioning some fundamental beliefs about life and as such is a good exercise. The people who turn this book into so much more are doing it an injustice.	2004-01-08
US	22952028	R14SWRBB31CNKU	1571741038	916454618	Conversations With God : An Uncommon Dialogue (Book #3)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Good finale to &quot;trilogy&quot;	I have a fairly pragmatic view of this series as one which contains a lot of wisdom and much unconventional ways of thinking that have the potential to make you a better person but that certainly did not come from a literal &quot;communication&quot; with God. As such, if you enjoyed the first book in the series, you'll get a lot out of this one. This book returns from the global consciousness of the second book to the puruit of truth by the individual. It goes deeper than the first book and contains stronger messages. If you thought the first one was too New-Agey and radical, this one is more so! But if you saw it as a collection of unorthodox thoughts some of which just might help one's life then this book rounds out the whole &quot;system&quot; very nicely.	2004-01-08
US	22952028	R2I1T3XIVLRAI4	1853264628	798905937	Analects (Wordsworth Classics)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A pretty good edition of a seminal text	This is a great intro into the philosophy of Confucianism. Although it's hard to describe in a sentence, the main thrust of the Analects seems to be the interplay of several of Confucius's concepts, such as ren (humanity/benevolence), li (propriety/ritual), xiao (filial piety) and others. Confucius was essentially a conservative who placed great importance on social order within the family on a micro scale all the way up to the state on a macro scale. This was a rigid hierarchy. BUT, he was also very concerned with social justice and that everyone treat everyone with benevolence. He does not advocate blind obedience to law or ritual but rather combining ritual/law and benevolence to create a \\"gentleman\\" (all these words are extremely poor translations of the original Chinese terms so most of the meaning is lost) as opposed to a \\"small man\\" who is only concerned with themselves and profit.    The Analects are a bit difficult to understand as many of them are short, seemingly disconnected sayings many of which require the knowledge of backstories of Chinese history (if you want longer more cohesive narratives illustrating the principles try Mencius). Luckily this edition has sufficient footnotes to get the basic grasp. Don't expect a complete philosophy when reading the Analects - they are but sayings compiled by his students and do not reflect the whole of his philosophy. The text also seems to be corrupt in a number of places - but do expect a book containing much wisdom.    I'm sure there are better translations but this one seems good in itself.	2004-01-07
US	22952028	R27VAK8QVROTFG	1853267791	521925223	The Art of War/The Book Of Lord Shang (Wordsworth Classics of World Literature)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Excellent range of texts	The book has 3 parts. The first is a translation of Sun Tzu's classic The Art of War. Certainly almost everyone must have heard about it - it is considered one of the first books to be printed. It is 13 short chapters each one dealing with a specific aspect of strategy in warfare. The text is of a high quality and for those like me who are sick of seeing Sun's masterpiece massacred in today's bookstores with most titles offering extensive commentary on how to apply the battle strategies in &quot;business&quot; etc etc, this simple translation which presents what Sun himself actually said is a gem. There's no commentary as the translation is clear enough. <br />The second part is Tao Han Zhang's commentary on The Art of War. Tao was a commander in Mao Ze Dong's People's Liberation Army. On the one hand he does offer some interesting strategic insights. But on the other, it's hard to take someone collaborating with one of the most brutal regimes of the 20th century seriously, especially when he's talking about how Sun was an atheist and laid the principles of dialectic materialism!<br />The third part reverts to a primary Chinese source - it's the lesser known Book of Lord Shang. This is a treatise on how to rule a country with an iron fist, a handbook on how to be a ruthless and successful dictator. Compared in this edition to Machiavelli's The Prince, Shang actually makes Machiavelli look like a saint. His book and theories founded the Legalist school of thought and his policies were actually successfully implemented by China's first emperor Qin Shi Huang Ti (that's how he got to be emperor!). A must read in today's world considering how many of the 200-or-so countries are brutal dictatorships. Frightening and yet fascinating.<br />Another interesting thing is by putting The Art of War and Lord Shang in the same volume the publishers seem to be saying that both are the products of their time and were influenced by the feudalism of the era. A welcome change from forced large-scale comparisons to today.	2004-01-07
US	22952028	RB1TZRNVKZ6OL	184022102X	641341283	Upanishads (Wordsworth Classics of World Literature)	Books	2	3	3	N	N	Lack of context spoils translation	This is a fairly lucid translation of select Upanishads. Some of them are not presented in their entirety. One of the biggest problems with this book is that if, like me, you know nothing about the Upanishads already, it does not introduce the subject very well. There's a single intro at the beginning which is generally a bad idea as that simply dumps too much new information onto the reader in one go. Then, there is no further introduction to each individual Upanishad making it a maze to sift through. There is a small secion of notes at the back.<br />As a result, while some passages sit well others seem like rantings made in ecstatic visions (&quot;Om is brahman. Om is all this&quot; - p.27) so their true point which is probably quite interesting and profound is missed. The nature of the text is such that with no guidance it seems gibberish.<br />If you have no knowledge of the Upanishads and would like to get to know more about this sacred text, seek out a better presented/explained version.	2004-01-06
US	22952028	RU74SJTJ83BQ1	1853261971	45597048	Bhagavadgita (Wordsworth Classics)	Books	2	3	4	N	N	Hard to follow	Having no prior knowledge of the Bhagavad Gita, this book wasn't all that helpful. There are absolutely no notes in the chapters and this is almost certainly a work that is incomprehensible without some guidance. Also, it's hard for someone with no experience of Indian languages not to get lost and confused among the long names and the book does nothing to remedy this.<br />Overall, it did not provide the understanding of the Bhagavad Gita I hoped.	2004-01-06
US	22952028	R9G4W2OL6N9W7	0140444025	962236503	The Rig Veda: An Anthology of One Hundred Eight Hymns (Penguin Classics)	Books	2	12	18	N	N	Difficult to grasp	I know nothing about the Rig Veda outside this book so cannot comment on whether the hymns selected or the translation were appropriate. However, the lack of introductory material means that each hymn is followed by a lengthy notes section. Flipping backward and forward detracts from the fluidity and understanding of the text. The hymns are pregnant with symbolism but if it's introduced in the notes on an as-you-go basis it isn't absorbed.<br />Some of the shorter hymns I found read quite well so the translation isn't all bad. Furthermore, it chooses to present some of the more &quot;mundane&quot; aspects of life during the time of the Rig Veda, which I found interesting.<br />Overall, there are probably far better translations but this one isn't all bad.	2004-01-06
US	22952028	R101Y920NSNG92	0827602529	185262352	Tanakh: The Holy Scriptures - The New JPS Translation According to the Traditional Hebrew Text	Books	3	38	44	N	N	Good layman intro to Tanakh	If you're a beginner, this is a good book to have as your first translation of the Jewish Scriptures. It's written in a fairly easy-to-read and fluid language. There are some footnotes to point out alternate readings and obvious comparisons but nothing to overwhelm. A very good feature of this edition is its use of paragraphing and white space - this is the best example I've seen of the Bible's text being broken up into logical, readable units to enhance understanding. The poetry sections are made up to look like poems in the layout. All of this greatly enhances one's first approach to the Bible.<br />If you're a religious Jew, this is not an ideal translation. Whilst saying that it's in the spirit of the Saadiah Gaon, it tends to steer away from a traditional Jewish approach. There is no substitutions of passages which may suggest God's corporeality unlike the translations which follow the trend of Onkelos. Things are often translated literally as opposed to the oral tradition, eg. Elohim rendered as &quot;God&quot; and not &quot;judges&quot; in passages like Ex 21:6 (judges being given as an alternate reading). The footnotes that try to fix the &quot;mistakes&quot; in the text will be found annoying. Overall, not in the spirit of the Sages.<br />If you're a Christian, this will introduce you to a Jewish perspective on the Bible (although from the last paragraph it is debatable as to how accurate that perspective is). The originality of the translation (vs say the King James) may also be interesting. If looking for verses which Christians consider as referring to Jesus, do not expect them to be rendered in the same way as in a Christian Bible!<br />Overall, edition may be either good or bad depending on what you want from it.	2004-01-05
US	22952028	R12ZQUJBZ6TAOV	0899060145	839778575	The Chumash: The Stone Edition, Full Size (ArtScroll)   (English and Hebrew Edition) The Torah: Haftaros and Five Megillos with a Commentary Anthologized from the Rabbinic Writings	Books	4	18	20	N	N	Excellent intro into the Torah	This edition tries to condense as much of the basic wisdom of the Jewish tradition about the Tenakh into a single volume. It does a splendid job at that, with a translation of everything from the Bible one would need for liturgical use (Torah, Haftarot, Megillot) and a good starting commentary on the Torah itself. However, it must be remembered that this book *is* a condensation. As such, the English text is very selective in what commentaries it chooses to include. As such, it presents a good, basic, down the line approach. Do not expect profound mysteris to abound in this volume. Also, for those who are not from a strictly observant, Orthodox background, the tone adopted in the volume can be at times a tad pompous and overbearing.    If you understand Hebrew/Aramaic, this is a great book that adds to the vocalised text of the Torah the commentary of Rashi and the Targum of Onkelos. If you don't understand Hebrew, this is a great point to start! One can quite comfortably learn the Hebrew of the Torah from this volume as it is a a side-by-side edition with two parallel languages which is helpful to develop your own language intuition.    The book guides the reader to understand just how much more there is to be learnt and that's a great thing. The fact that it presents a basic point of view is also great because too many people fail in their learning by ignoring the basics.    A great introduction into the Jewish understanding ot the Torah	2004-01-05
