US	24690534	R3DBFVKWXAQEJZ	0743419049	907944504	Candyland	Books	5	7	8	N	Y	Sex addiction: a truth our society refuses to face.	I found this book to be well written, particularly the first part  where the sex addict, a normal and very succesfull architect, is depicted so accurately, so hauntingly as he goes about feeding his addiction. Sexualized America is an unalloyed positive to the sophisticated filmakers who give us the shallow Joy of Sex type t.v. show Sex and the City. Las Vegas has an ad campaign that sells its city as a place for sex and irresponsibiltiy. Sexual relations are less important than wearing attractive (and expensive) shoes. Candyland takes sexual relations between people seriously. When sex is decoupled from normal love and affection, really bad things can and do happen. In this novel, sex breaks up marriages, turns a person immersed in this world into a sexual deviant, depicts prostitution realistically (not graphically) and shows that the sex addict lives on the edge of an abyss--that he may fall into at any time. The female vice cop, the prostitutes, the sex addict, the drug-abusing whore with the heart of gold (comes across as real in this novel),the man driven crazy because of sexual rejection gives a refreshing look at a phenomenen that too man Americans accept or ignore. I think everyone should ponder carefully the implications in this novel and especially the non-preachy, much-needed words of advice given at the end of  this novel. The world of sex is grimy. This book is a good antidote to the idiocies of Pretty Woman that basically tell us that being a whore is just a fine and dandy job. The incidents, the characters, their thoughts and feelings take the sensitive reader out himself into the varied lives and worlds of people who deserve our censure, but at the same time deserve our love and compassion.	2005-09-14
US	24690534	R2NBMM347ILDUL	0801833841	315756375	Ulysses	Books	5	55	57	N	N	Remarkable insights into this remarkable fiction	I have been reading Kenner for over 37 years (I'm 55). I have learned so much from him about how to read literature (not just his favorite modernist writers). His analysis/presentation in Ulysses, is easy to follow and understand (although it rewards, nay demands, close, readings. It is a guide book of the highest order and, like all things Kenner wrote, is entertaining in its own right.<br /><br />It will help all readers, especially those new to Joyce and his daunting  novel. The reviewer who said it wasn't for the beginners fails to undersand that to read a difficult fiction, sometimes you have to wrestle with seemingly difficult interpretations and approaches to  the difficult literature--not that kenner's prose is opaque or difficult (nor is it burdened  with obstructionist theories--his difficulty is not in the same pale with the deconstructing satan or  post-modernism, but his keys to the kingdom of Ulysses does require more than one reading to fully absorb and use (it is full of exciting insights but it's main purpose is pragmatic: to help the reader read and understand this wonderful, yet complex, never-to-be exhausted book).Joyce's novel enriches the reader the more times he reads it. Though Joyce's Ulysses offers varied and many gems, Kenner does not believe in the reader pouring his own interpretation and biases etc. into the novel. We need some knowledge and background to read Ulysses, but Joyce creates the meaning. Our task is to understand. Kenner is our teacher.<br /><br />When reading his Kenner's Ulysses. Kenner makes you aware of the many wonders of Joyce's novel, while making sure you understand that there are countless other details and wonders to explore and to enjoy on your own<br /><br />He equips  the reader of Ulysses to adventure with confidence into this wild, comic love-fest of Dublin, the imagination, and the dark and light beauties of life. Kenner prepares/conditions the reader not to read to see Kenner's insights,  but to take the pathway of discovery and imaginative (and spiritual) enlargement on the reader's own. I highly recommend  his other two books on Joyce, his book on Eliot, and, of course, The Pound Era, perhaps the finest sustained work of literary criticism every written. Please also recognize the connection between Ulysses and Mahler's symphonies.take the pathway of discovery and imaginative (and spiritual) enlargement on the reader's own. I highly recommend  his other two books on Joyce, his book on Eliot, and, of course, The Pound Era, perhaps the finest sustained work of literary criticism every written. Please also recognize the connection between Ulysses and Mahler's symphonies.  <br /> <br />	2005-09-04
US	24690534	R3ET4N71C6AORW	067945456X	420029835	Collected Poems	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	Poems to read and reread.	I was first introduced to Bowers at UCLA in 1970. His early poetry was good, but its sometimes coldness slightly pushed me away. His poetry got better and better as he wrote more poems (not that he ever wrote many--thank goodness), and they have been indispensable to making my life imaginatively, intellectually and emotionally richer;  I have worn out two books of his collected poetry. Like the previous reviewers said, he didn't care a bit about fame and his small number of poems will never bring him the audience he deserves. But for those who really like poetry that strikes the heart and the head and leaves you feeling like a better person after reading a few of his poems, then Bowers is your man. I'm sorry to hear of his passing. The great ones are going, Kenner, Guy Davenport  and now Bowers. A quiet, decent professor for over thirty years--his poetry vitalizes, is essential.  The town he loved, Santa Barbara, continues on, its beauty a bit shabbier for his loss.	2005-08-23
US	24690534	R36SWIPMNY5BQ4	0375406778	246289375	No Country for Old Men	Books	5	9	17	N	Y	A remarkable MRI of America--truth not ny times	I am one of the few of who red C.M. back in the 60's. That such a literary phenomenen could escape the radar screen of critcs and academics who were mesmerized by John Barth, T. Pynchon, Bellow etc. shows all of us that true talent, whether Beckett or Pound, is eschewed by politically correct professors et al. who have been with us for much longer than we realize.  P.C. critics did not recognize his first three novels because they are, sad to say, more interested in p.c. correct authors. Sutree is a great novel, up there with The Great Gatsby and Huck Finn. I read many reviews these days who compare McCarthy with Faulkner and Hemingway.  Faulkner is in a few of his novels an outstanding author: e.g. Light in August, Absalom, Absalom and to a certain extent, The Sound and the Fury( which gets A for effort but C for accomplishment). Hemingway is a good writer celebrated because he is accessible. Joyce, anyone.  Has anyone read Beckett? Of course not. Updike writes well but does he have anything to say: NO. Everyone of McCarthy's novels is very good to great. But Hemingway--has any author been more overrated? He is the Southey of our time. Another factor is televison and movies--this dulled the critics'and academics' senses so that they thought Jaws and The Godfather were \\"great\\" movies---they may be, but reading critics inevitably lost all moorings, and believed that Pauline Kael was the great critic from 1950 to the present. They used her wildly erratic criteria, to analyzes novels, plays,etc. Speaking of plays: would anyone in his right mind trade any of McCarthy's novels for any of Albee's plays. Of course not. There are not Ben Jonsons in our time--we are left with critics such as Richard Eder (writing in the L.A Times) who criticized All the Pretty Horses  because the Spanish was not right. His review of All the Pretty... should be studied as the way the left deals with an individual author who doesn't lionize Mexicans and makes a 16 year old white boy the unalloyed<br /><br />hero, who goes deep in Mexico and is able to break horses that Mexican can not. OH my god!!! As for his most recent book it, in my opininion, speaks plainly to our times. C.M. avoids illegal immigration and uses a drug deal gone awry to show us how bad people do triumph (remember Stalin or Hitler--yes they lost eventually, but what carnage they left in their wake). C.M. is saying that Sheriff Bell is only accepting REALITY. The outlaws, the miscreants, the evil ones (yes, there is evil) are not only becoming dominant, but the good ones like the Sheriff are helpless to stop them. Think 9/ll, British transport, Spanish train, Iran, N. Korea, China(flying below the radar because big business makes tons of moolah). Today we have drugs innudating our country--but what drug does C.M. choose to focus on: cheap, diluted Mexican Heroin. We live in cheapened times, where crystal meth is the fastest growing drug in America. While the Fed. government, spends billions to supposedly interdict foreign drug imports, right here in our own back yard drugs are made, sold and used. How much money does the gov't spend on cheap heroin from Mexico (almost none, because to do so would be politically incorrect or meth manufactured ubiquitously in the U.S.? virtually nil. Better to keep the sheep population of America worried about cocaine from Columbia and heroin from Afghanistan.<br /><br />  MCarthy's book is both truth and a parable. Chirgurrah is real and we may not be in danger of gun shots in the forehead, but we are in danger of devauling life, so that murderers are celebrated (thing Dead Man Walking) and death is a celebrity (o.j., peterson etc.). Americans can't come home and read Shakespeare or Keats, because, like Meth., t.v. and dvds it is easier to addict to cheap thrills, reaching its nadir in reality t.v. The L.A. Times, the New York times couldn't thrash Old Men, but their degraded politics made it impossible for them to praise this novel which reveals so muchabout what we are willing to tolerate, unless the heartless killer hits us (he wont,will he?). He doesn't have to kill us physically,because our souls are already rotting and most are dead. Read the book. It's easy. Read it again and try to find a Hugh Kenner to explain it to you.<br /><br />\\"	2005-07-28
US	24690534	R1YDF7Z91BL3EB	0316734942	60378634	The Closers	Books	1	8	27	N	N	Dull Story told to convey liberal pieties	What can one say? Michael Connelly wrote five good or great novels:his first three Harry Bosch novels, The Poet, and the one great novel Void Moon. His subsequent Harry Bosch novels have ranged from average to mediocre. Only Chasing the Dime showed some cleverness, insight and good story-telling. Now we have this bathetic paean to the L.A.P.D. because Connelly likes the new L.A. Police Chief, William Bratton. Along with this, Bosch is back on the force with his black, female partner of old for no good reason other than to show us readers that Mr. Connelly can yield completely to what up to now were his obvious, but also suppressed, mind-numbing conventional liberal views on life and society. Novelistic success has resulted in Mr. Connelly's willingness to  write a boring police procedural and at long last, ala Walter Mosley, George Pelicanos etc., use this vehicle to preach his liberal and politically correct philosophy. And, how sad to think, this man once could write crime fiction that could be analyzed as literature.	2005-07-07
US	24690534	R3H9S6BZFSD3W	0743463099	443178158	Mischief (87th Precinct Mysteries)	Books	5	5	6	N	Y	A magical, marvelous novel	Mischief has the Deaf Man as its main character and what a main character he is.  Is there a smarter character, hero or villain, in crime fiction than the Deaf Man? No way. (Is he McBain's DARK alter ego, as Hope and Carella are his \\"good\\" alter ego?)  As per usual, bad things are happening in the big bad city.  But the Deaf Man creates special problems for the 87th.  He provides (and harrasses) Carella and his mates with clues etc. to his upcoming nefarious action, which will take place on a grand scale.  But the best part of this story concerns a black rap band and its leader--no p.c. condescension in his treatment of the band, the rock concert of which they are to be a major act and their plot action, just honest, good and accurate writing about our \\"in trouble\\" society and about the individuals whose stories actually make this society come to life. A killing near the end of the story takes your breath away and gives much \\"haunting\\" food for thought.  Much mischief in the city. Cops really are having trouble capturing and containing the bad guys. No plot spoilers here.  Read the book.  It is great.	2004-12-30
US	24690534	R3EZN9JZFRMYA4	0808509578	904052489	Inferno (Bantam Classics)	Books	4	2	5	N	N	Vivid, Accurate, Exciting Translation--notes a problem	What a wonderful Divine Comedy! I think many readers who inevitably stay away from \\"high\\" literature would enjoy this ever-deepening apex of literary art. The translated imagery, metaphors, similes especially capture Dante's genius. But significant problems with notes, which, though often detailed and helpful, are very, very weak on the religious aspects of this RELIGIOUS epic.  Doesn't  even attempt explanations of allegories (This is per se an allegorical poem).  For contrast see notes in Dorothy Sayers's translation that ventures explanations of allegory for modern reader. Mandelbaum's translation is superior to Sayers, but her notes are not just helpful, but essential for every reader. One surmises that translator is uncomfortable with allegorical truths of poem.  IN ANY CASE, this translation is great--highly recommended-- unbelievably beautiful, entertaining, edifying and imaginatively/spiritually transcendent poem. Read  it.	2004-11-18
US	24690534	R2HDIUDW9AXBRU	0316155306	561654368	The Narrows	Books	2	3	9	N	N	Another step in Connelly's decline	Mike Connelly has talent.  His first three Harry Bosch novels were outstanding.  The Poet and Voic Moon were also outstanding.  Trunk Music was pretty good, as was Angels Flight.  But his last six or seven novels, except Chasing the Dime (\\"A\\" for effort and idea more than execution), have been ground out like meat through a grinder.  The Narrows is no exception.  When you have a character like The Poet and you spend much vapid time poorly developing and integrating an uninteresting f.b.i. officer, instead of developing and focussing on the poet, Bosch and the original murder of Mcaleb, you inexorably produce a dull, plodding novel. Plot holes like the failure of the fbi to follow Bosch to the poet's lair are legion.  The ending was superficially okay, but the excitement was not there. I found the writing to be cursory and telegraphed. With an often poorly  plotted novel and weak character development (and no meaningful theme(s)), the novel is doomed from its start. Connelly knows that anything he writes will sell big, so he has taken the easy way out. Just write anything and put it on the market. What a waste of a wonderful talent. Mike, go back to your first novels and read them and then read Lost Light and The Narrows. I think simple comparison will b e sufficient to embarrass you into writing better stories.  You can move forward and create better, deeper, thematically compelling fiction (like Reginald Hill), or, cliche of cliches, you can rest on your laurels (and rake in the dough).  A major disappointment, particularly when compared with the original novel, The Poet.	2004-11-14
US	24690534	R3BJYG7GT0MLVS	006019877X	576504477	Playing with Fire: A Novel of Suspense (Inspector Banks Novels)	Books	2	3	13	N	N	Almost Interesting, yet bland, plot & characters.	Robinson is vastly overrated. Nevertheless, the plot in this novel is a little better than most of his novels.  Characters are etched with a vagueness that undermines the possibility of depth and ambiguity of character, that Robinson, I suspect, thinks he is creating.  Main problem is Banks--Robinson thinks that facts about Banks's life--divorce, former girlfriend on force, long-range relationship, living alone etc--creates a complex, edgy character, but what the reader gets is detective that moves shallow and superficially through the novel.  Robinson succeeds much better with a one-time character--the gallant lad whose heroin addicted girlfriend dies--very good portrait of angst filled young man, dealing with life, authentic personality-- his anger is vivid. I liked art expert characterization also. But Banks, female cop, cliched doctor, painter just sit there, dull and uninvolving.  Forgettable novel. Highly forgettable.	2004-10-05
US	24690534	R2Q6010VBDEA4N	0812575199	645993059	The Big Silence (Abe Lieberman Mystery)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Lieberman's tales just become deeper and r icher and better!	What a wonderful book!  Virtually every character, small in part or large, transmits that evanescent hint of reality--reality soaked with love, hate, unsavory trade-offs between criminals and cops, between cops and cops (Our televison cops that give most Americans their conception of the police is unrealistically and inordinately distorted--towards the positive, which for us as viewers means cops that are really, really tough with the subtlety of an 100-mile hurricane ripping through a small town.  In Law and Order, aren't most criminals one-diminsional, even if depicted favorably, usually when one of the cops or attys falls in love with one of the baddoes.  Kaminsky says, &quot;These men are cops; we depend on them, but they are very imperfect, very willing to deal with ruthless, even sadistic criminals, to make the concession that should result in the greater legal and justice good. But putting El Perro's men back on the street is really better than a sharpie who cozens old people.  Anyway, Lieberman's novels have improved (the first is the worst and can profitably be skipped, &quot;Lieberman's Folly&quot;: but try to read the rest in sequence. Although the plots are fairly discrete, the characters reoccur and we learn more and more about them as we proceed through the books in this series.  The characters speak to the heart, mind and imagination that reaches Keatsian goals (if not his genius).  This novel has a few main plots--one focussing on Lieberman's partner, his drinking problems, his difficulty in marrying a beautiful Chinese woman (He's big Irish, all the way); another  plot strand focusses on Lieberman's difficult daughter, who has basically abandoned her children to Lieberman and his wife--she's remarried, lives in CA, and like so many of us has great difficulty living a life that is not based on depression, obsession with the &quot;cold and analytical&quot;; she blames Lieberman for her problems, but also realizes that his wisdom, his love may be her only chance for happiness (flickers of) and success in marriage with her new black husband.  The honesty of the character interactions, their stances and relationships allows us to see characters not as such but as almost Shakespearean, universal, yet individuals that we can palpably touch and, at least partially, understand.  This particular novel, of all of Kaminsky's many novels, from several series, sharply, richly, and genuinely etches real people (e.g. Gornitz, Phil Blitzein, Hanranahan, Kearney, Bess, the grandkids and on and on. This novel loves humanity by giving us people and stories, transcending mystery/suspense genre, but working effectively with its requisites, who help us think about life--its joys, its drama, its hypocrisy, its pettiness, and in the case of the dog--a stroke of authorial genious nonpareil--finding a ray of hope in the kindness of a detective, who looks like a weary, somewhat cranky dog (Lieberman), but lights up the lives of so many (sure he's too good to be true) but gives us readers hope that we might make a positive difference and that a life not beset with problems is really not a life at all.  Lieberman's insonmia, his slightly acridly ironic humor, his incorrigible daughter and all those criminals, big and  small, who make Lieberman's life a means for us to enrich our own. Great book. Also read Russian series and the three Fonesca novels--Kaminsky entertains inexorably, proses beautifully and brings the dectective novel up to a level that only Bill James and Michael Connelly can approximate. Not airline books (Patterson) but still easy to read, and easy to read twice. Read him	2004-04-15
US	24690534	R1J22LMDSFX5B1	0812561902	724887759	Not Quite Kosher: An Abe Lieberman Mystery	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Yet another masterpiece of misleadingly &quot;easy&quot; fiction.	I wrote a long review of The Big Silence---most of what was said there is relevant here.  The mystery plots are top notch.  The characters  are rivalled only by R. Hill's Pascoe-Dalzeil charcters, but Kaminsky is less playful, intent on entertaining, but even more concerned that if you want to spend the time you can learn about the details and textures of life that matter (and inevitably illuminate you and your life). Read his novels, particularly, the Russian novels and Lieberman novels and spend some time with an author who is surely the Doestesfeski (sp) of mystery novels--don't be fooled by the ease of reading--in fact slow down and reflect on all the impt themes of life that Kaminsky presents for your consideration. ONly complaint: Abe is just too &quot;sharp,&quot; knows too may people, makes too few mistakes---write at least one more Lieberman novel and give him a couple of deep flaws that will blend bumpily, but smoothly with Abe's skilled detective and people problems-- he needs a touch of  larceny to penetrate his soul, create conflict and perhaps bring him down a peg or two (ala his partner, his boss Kearney, his daughter).  Too good,sometimes grating.  Still a GREAT READ. Also, try Midnight Pass (Fonesca novel) for another genre consumeing, genre transforming, genre transcending  novel with the imperfect main character we need in our crime fiction.	2004-04-15
US	24690534	R14LXVW7F6058Q	0765304627	487940759	Midnight Pass: A Lew Fonesca Mystery	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A Complex Man Moving from depression back into sunlight.	Great novel. Not merely a mystery or suspense novel at all.  Transcends the genre, while satisfying  the requirements of crime fiction.  Reader and reviewers have objected to Lew Fonesca's depressed (unlikable to these readers) state in Vengeance and Retribution.  I thought Vengeance was a good novel, while Retribution had its flaws, but it was still superior to 90% of mystery/suspense fiection. Midnight Pass shows Lew still tied to the past (his wife's death), still longing to be left alone with his old Joan Crawford, John Garfield etc. movies (escape the world), but he is a man who almost in spite of himself reaches out to others and others touch him.  What Kaminsky has done brilliantly in this novel (apart from his spot-on creation of in-depth characters, no matter how small their roles in the novel) is to give us a man who is evolving, changing, but not through artifcial authorial manipulation, but by an author who gives us realistic, organic growth of Fonexca.  I am a big fan of Kaminsky's Russian novels--his unforgettable, brilliantly etched characters, the rich atmospher, the exciting, yet plausible, plots and the main character who ties ties it all together, Rostnikov.  His Leiberman novels are good.  His Toby Peters novels are entertaining and often offer insight into the human condition.  But Midnight Pass surpasses any novel he has written. Read this book and fall in love with real people (good, bad and in-between) and gain profound insight into yourself, a most worthy novelistic achievement. Highly recommended. Read it slowly, immerse yourself in its subtle, yet powerful, movement and, I believe, you will be a better person for having read it. Quite simply, &quot;read it.&quot;	2004-03-17
US	24690534	R3CEBCEGH4TPVC	0892966688	74683708	Fall of a Cosmonaut	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Another Outstanding Russian Mystery	Kaminsky writes 3, no 4, series of crime novels. The Toby Peters stories are enjoyable but only that.  The Leiberman series has a bit more substance, but still read like the slow second movement of the standard 4 movement symphony.  The Fonseca series has just begun. Vengeance was above average (compared to all mystery/suspense/crime/ whatever..writers).  Retribution was much in the Leiberman vein--slow, winding down, world-weary ad nauseam.  Where Kaminsky SHINES is in his Russian/Rostnikov series.  Not all the dozen or so novels have been equally good, but even the weakest presents real, alive, fleshed-out characters, beginning with the truly inimitable Rostnikov (&quot;the washtub&quot;) and his vampire-like underling Emile Karpo, probably the most striking and original continuing character in any myster/suspense series of ALL time. But it is the world of Moscow and the world of the highly-intelligent weight lifting Rostnikov that with his Jewish wife, playwright son (seques into detective), the Yak, the silver haired Colonel and all the colorful characters and settings that make this series vibrate with life.  This latest novel, perhaps his best (and, sad to say, perhaps his last) is set up with the usual three plots, unrelated, except for Rostkinov getting involved in more than one. The plots involve the film industry, the space industry and the government funded paranormal acitivities research section. If you haven't read prevevious entries in this series, you will be impressed by this novel with its depth and color and unusually well-done dialogue (for a mystery).  But having read all the previous novels, save the first, it is not only a good book but a triumph of Kaminsky in creating and forcing the reader to love and appreciate his characters not just as cogs in a plot (e.g. Lovesey's characters), but having a literary quality, a richness that even Faulkner or Camus would have enjoyed.  Cosmonaut is an unalloyed triumph of man, of his spirit, and of the vital diversity that makes man what he/she is.<BR>My feeling is that Kaminsky has ended this series, but I would urge him to reconsider--even an average Rostkinov novel is worth two Leiberman's, three Fonsecas, and four Peters.  Anyway read this book.  It is GREAT.	2004-02-13
US	24690534	R3JQ92R56CD7MY	0804108374	954649878	Hard Currency	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Incorporates the crime motifs, but transcends them.	Marvelous tale of Havana and Moscow with Kaminsky's collection of carefully developed and in-depth detectives and fleshed-out other characters.  Socialists and most liberals won't like  the novel's honest and forthright portrayal of a fetid Havana--some socialist/communist pipedreams and delusion die hard. The plots were interesting and the development of Karpo's character was enjoyable and intriguing. The villain in Moscow was depicted multi-dimensionally--I could feel viscerally and emotionally the psychosis which enslaved him, conflicted him, and evoked sympathy from this reader at least.  The description of the &quot;cult&quot; and its members in Havana was awesome.  When people are virtual slaves, these kinds of secret societies have to evolve so that the slaves can have something to live for. Kaminsky writes effortlessly and at times beautifully. Also, unlike so many suspense/crime books, I felt as though I was learning more about other people and also examining and questioning myself and my values, affections etc. Highly recommended	2004-02-02
US	24690534	RZEPRPJMW4YVF	1569472912	91451075	Diamond Dust: A Peter Diamond Mystery	Books	3	8	14	N	N	Mildly entertaining, but underdeveloped.	Book has great possibility, but Lovesey simply can't slow down the action in the book to allow any cogitation by the reader.  His characters are potentially interesting, but in his rush to get his story told, any depth of character is virtually impossible.<br />  He also needs to give more depth and specifics to his settings, e.g. the Dorchester Hotel (probably unknown to most Americans) also to his characters, the con man in the plot re diamonds was a wonderful opportunity to write a fully fleshedd-out character.  Most damaging is the dialogue: almost always the dialogue has this numbing sameness, so that the speaker's voice and content could come from almost any character. I hate the word, but Lovesey needs some &quot;nuance&quot; in his characters speech, some subtlety and shading.  Also, major plot flaw re jogger. Why not make every effort to find her?  Diamond's grief is genuine no doubt, but I (perhaps not other readers) found it factitious and unconvincing.  A pretty good plot spoiled by an author who either cannot or will not deepen his writing.	2004-02-02
US	24690534	R3EWQET6EI436G	0743410335	785313244	Fat Ollie's Book: A Novel of the 87th Precinct (Paperback)	Books	2	1	2	N	N	Flat Characters Over-praised and Predictable	For those of you not familiar with the literary terms, flat character and round character, here's a brief definition.  Flat characters have clearly defined (almost rigid) characteristics and don't change or develop in a story. Most Dickens' characters, though delightful, are flat, in contrast to Huck Finn or Harry Bosch in M. Connelly's novels, both of which are round and have tension, ability to change, often ironic touches etc.  Mcbain's characters are always, and tiresomely so, flat. Carrella and Ollie are good examples: Carrella good, p.c., loves his wife passionately (idolizes her and her deafness, not a nice touch but too friggin' p.c. for me) and cares for people. Ollie is a stereotype villain in McBain's universe: bigot, gross, and totally un-politically correct, actually the one of the only interesting characers in McBain's galaxy.  Fat Ollie's Book is humorous and flat characters can be fun: the transvestite reaches beyond McBain's usual inflexible character--some minor characters have some roundness: pawnbroker for example. Black doctor and white cop is rather sweet, but again so cloyingly flat and predictable. Do they ever disagree on anything? Black and white lovers is oh so passe. Average plot and sometimes spot-on satire of myster writers characterize this overrated and rather silly book. But McBain gives his readers what they want--could he add a little Rendell and Bill James to his novels--not likely, when he can grind out these stale hamburger novels while watching reruns of Colombo. Come on Mr. Mcbain reach, take a risk. Your Hope novels show promise, but you still can't go for a little more than a modicum of rust and edginess. Entertaining, bus book, nothing else.	2004-01-27
US	24690534	R1KF3GHRD07HD8	0446604941	761871982	Gladly the Cross-Eyed Bear (Matthew Hope)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	More Carefully  Written Than 87th Precinct Books	I enjoyed reading this book.  I am pretty sure that McBain takes more time writing his Hope series. There's liitle of the flippant dialogue and other narrative devices that often mar the putative reality of the 87th books.  McBain's novel (not McBain necessarily) wants you to examine the complexities of human beings--in this novel: Hope, Laine--both in some depth. But all characters invite consideration and really seem to blend seamlessly into the narrative (e.g. Guthrie, Diaz, and Tootsie). The casual connection between pornography and a unique children's  teddy bear merits a second (third) look. Characters in this book are generally not nice, but are a mix of good and bad, right and wrong.  Many readers will pooh-pooh the secondary plot with Warren and Tootsie, but it is in this world (the boat out on the open sea is a microcosm of our world) that seems so surreal, but really is \\"life-lived\\" and the \\"thing itself\\" that<BR> we glimpse a human being staring intently at evil (crack and/or cocaine) and saying \\"you aren't going to beat us this time\\" He stands strong, helps his addicted friend and gave me some hope that good still may triumph, at least aspirationally, in this world, where my 50 plus years on earth has seen a lot of nastiness, betrayal and other unalloyed forms of evil.  But a little good along the way. I read Money, Money, Money just before this one. I enjoyed it, but Gladly has legitimate edginess (not too overdone for a novel) and a kind of crunchy soulfulness that makes you applaud what Etta did to her husband. Again right over wrong; good over evil.  Money also had its virtues but was too jauntily frivilous about certain things (lion) and maudlin about human relations: Carrella, mother and wife. My first Hope book; hope others are as good. Oh, I almost forgot. McBain's handling of Hope's coma was excellent and was wrapped up beautifully (understated and clever)at the end of the book. I have read 9 McBain books; Gladly (and just a little of Vespers)is the only one where when I finished the book, I said a little prayer and reached for Yeats's poems. WEll Done.	2004-01-20
US	24690534	R38PTJKV7P0ARZ	1590869826	675529743	Their Wildest Dreams	Books	2	3	5	N	N	A Little Fun to Read, but typical airplane book: No depth.	An author can often choose any kind of book he wants to write. Peter Abrahams (PA) breezes through this sometimes interesting story with cliched dialogue and a plot that should have some edginess, given its inherent nature, but falls flat almost all the time. This book also struck me as being very anti-male, probably soup de jour in PA's neck of the woods.  The ex-husband is a jerk; the chief cop is dumb and owned by the villains.  The villains of course are all male.  The daughter's boyfriend is nice, but mentally dull.  The author in the story (read: book within a book) is trying to write a novel for which he is particularly unsuited (only star appearances on the Today show or with Diane Sawyer or Oprah...ad nauseam will sell his book).  He is saved in the end by the unbelievable heroics of the daughter, who is Supergirl incarnate. One nice thing was the lead bad guy is Russian, not German ... I kind of think PA is playing a joke on his readers: ordinary housewife becomes extraodinary stripper (a transparent implausibility); her daughter who saves the day; the obtuse writer whose life is turned around by a reader/reviewer (e.g. moi) on Amazon.  This book will stay in my mind more than one minute solely because of the ways prudish PA limply describes how stripper/dancers get the big money when performing. Get thee to a rocking strip joint gallant author PA and gain some authenticity in your writing.  Other problems: obligatory lesbian strippers (authentic, for once); as already noted: unsubtle to the max super teen girl;  the happy ending: good girls and guy should be drawn and quartered, which would have happened if the reality established in this novel had been adhered to. Turbo lets lil' one save the day. Unreal. Unreal. Readers who like this book won't read Ruth REndell, so I won't recommend her.  But Michael Connelly, please, read him and get depth, sound characterization, a good plot (almost all his novels) and great prose.	2004-01-14
US	24690534	R1ZHYATHXX3TC0	5553663571	638480673	Vespers	Books	2	2	5	N	N	A few interesting characters, but  weak plot (plots).	I sometimes enjoyed this book. Ed McBain creates some interesting characters and settings: plots are weak, but who reads McBain for his plots.  It would be beating a dead horse to say how unreal, how utterly implausible is the actual murderer of the priest.  Nice to see Carrella throw some barbs at religion (sarcasm by me)  McBain writes books that can be speed read or skimmed.  Actually, one positive: EM does try to get some &quot;thinking&quot; into some of the characters.  By the way a black would never buy dope from a white guy in a white guy's neigborhood--neutral ground at the minimum.  Glad a certain person died at the end: gave the book a tinge of grit. I feel strongly that the sweetest town in Nebraska would have more interesting problems and crimes than in EM's N.Y. Satanic leader was well-developed, as a character, and Satanic &quot;altar&quot; was a nice touch.	2004-01-14
US	24690534	R7PSLTCPD6MOJ	0786712228	863864903	A Feast of Carrion: A Novel of Crime	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Real people with real flaws and vices	This is a challenging book to read. The vocabulary sometimes requires a dictionary.  Some, but very little, is quite graphic and appropriately graphic--nothing gratuitous.  The author takes the world as it is: with incompetent cops, often caring only for promotion and sexual comforts; intelligent professors and doctors doing bad things, unalloyed bad things.  The story moves along at a steady pace. This can be read like a Patricia C. forensic book, but would make little sense.  This first novel educated me, thrilled me, entertained me,  but most of all immersed me in the grease and grime of life and made me look unflinchingly at some truths about the human condition, which many myster readers would like to ignore.  Not since I read Connelly's The Poet have I been so overwhelmed by mystery/suspense story. Essential reading.	2004-01-11
US	24690534	R2JY4HHMJ7QDDR	5553662451	761691187	Going Wrong	Books	5	1	2	N	N	The Human Mind is mysterious, dark and twisted.	Ruth Rendell (aka B. Vine) is one of my favorite writers. I have read more than thirty ofher novels. Just to be up front, I do not respond positively to the Wexford novels.  He just seems to muck up the story. The Gunner's Daughter is an exception.<BR>     Going Wrong is perhaps her most underrated novel. The precise normalcy of this story, in which a deluded (psychotic?) man believes that a young woman still loves him, although they broke up years ago is truly frightening in its normal familiarity. This putative normalcy bleeds into obsessiveness, and the easy tone of the book intensifies the terror.  The man, despite all evidence to the contrary, continues to believe that this woman still loves him. The ending comes swiftly, inevitably, and realistically.  Ms. Rendell is at her best when she focusses on two or three characters and digs deeply, so that we are pierced deeply. A quiet, haunting novel that lures the reader into the &quot;off-balance&quot; world of the obsessed and deluded young man--also shows the truly scary power of love and passion gone awry (and perhaps not awry). A magnificent suspense story that works psychologically and spiritually.	2003-12-29
US	24690534	R7MJXNU1J4NLQ	0446609145	559013514	Void Moon	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Well-plotted, highly suspenseful, paradigmatic good v. evil.	Much more involving than  Bosch novels, this novel explores the ambiguities of human nature, especially with equivocal female criminal, committing crime for admirable end; likable criminal middle-man, who sets up crimes; and maniacal, highly intelligent Vegas hotel &quot;detective&quot; who will use any means to achieve his goal of recovering the hotel's money. This in-depth, thoughtful, well-paced novel is Connelly's best, and ranks right up there with the best of Ruth Rendell and Thomas Cook's Breakheart Hill. Void Moon is a must read.	2003-12-23
US	24690534	R1V73MC8FFSNNI	0446518042	766503387	Romance	Books	1	0	2	N	N	Fatuous Novel-poor plot &amp; p.c. characters	Ed McBain often writes snappy,&quot;movin'on&quot; dialogue, but of the 5 books I have read (all highly recommended) none has a good plot, or interesting characters. Many readers praise his characters, but I find them shallow and almost always insipid and underdeveloped. This novel has good potential with a theatrical background and characters, but it goes nowhere;a budding romance between white policeman and black atty seems surrealistic to me--the atty would never be attracted to the half-bright policeman. Very p.c. Very shallow. Mr. McBain's novels are &quot;airplane&quot; or &quot;beach&quot; novels--which is fine for readers who like these kind of books, but by no stretch of the imagination are his novels &quot;good,&quot; compared, for example,to Ruth Rendell, Michael Connelly, or Reginald Hill. The 87th is dullsville.	2003-12-23
US	24690534	R1TEDAZDPEVIL3	5550173204	131942147	Mary, Mary	Books	1	2	4	N	N	Fissure a mile-wide in this thin, confusing novel.	Early on in this story reader is informed that main character has a split personality. 3 girls are murdered and buried in back yard of Mary Barton, protagonist. Mary B. is sweet and loves her garden. Her other half is wicked to the max. The novel starts with her cussing like a sailor, wholly unlike sweet Mary B. The incredibly stupid atty. doesn't infer anything about the seeming two Mary's. Mary B. charged with murder that she obviously committed. Most of book contains court scenes that are well-written but are merely banal and static, the story stops.  After conviction inevitable knife attack on atty by bad Mary, who we now learn is a twin of good Mary; at least that's the way the book reads. Within the reality of the book this is impossible and nonsense.  But the reader is supposed to believe that good Mary has an evil twin who did the killings...I read the ending of the novel several times to see if it was communicating to the reader that the bad Mary was just the evil side of Mary B., i.e. she has a split personality.  But, no, the book is saying that there are two Maries...not one with a good and bad side. If you want to read a lot of fairly interesting courtroom questioning by prosecutor and def. atty, most of the book is irrelevantly devoted to this, so read it and enjoy an O.J. moment. Perhaps the worst mystery/suspense novel I have ever read.  This is my fourth and last McBain novel.  HIs stories read at supersonic speed and purposefully divert the reader from thinking about the plot, characters, conflict,etc. Recommended solely for no-depth crowd of mystery readers (90% of readers are in this category; hence, the popularity ofjames patterson, Sue Grafton, Kellerman's,and many more; can anyone actually read Elizabeth George's prose and not become constipated and nauseous). Also, irrelevant romance between Mary's defense atty and female prosecutor.  Added nothing to story, except perhaps to be a lame red herring that the femme fatale might have something todo with the murders.	2003-12-22
US	24690534	R13QPYRARO8175	0345447530	863760590	Done for a Dime	Books	1	6	26	N	N	&quot;Put down your gun, Mister,&quot; I'm P.C. to the max.	Praised by such bastions of fair-mindedness as the N.Y. Times, I read this book knowing what to expect and was not disappointed. I would like to use more colorful language, but will settle for this very apt cliche: &quot;This book wears its emotions and liberal bonafides on its sleeves.&quot;  The writing is  passable, but the story and, more importantly, the philosophy underlying it, is didactic mush.  Another James Lee Burke clone who never met a liberal cause he didn't like. Virtually unreadable.	2003-12-07
US	24690534	R3NH9PV5T1JRKM	077042435X	761691187	Going Wrong	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Is anyone sane in our world, evoked wonderfully by RR?	RR does her best work when she stays away from Wexford.  If she really wants to write police detective novels, RR needs to read Michael Connelly's Harry Bosch novels and learn from him, at a minimum, how policeman actually behave on the job and off. Wexford, like all British and American series detectives (police or private) is shallow and unrealistic. Oh, Rebus is sometimes okay but Rankin's bland, repetitive stories destroy his credibility. Alson, Reg Hill's detectives are interesting and he uses them well, but the story's the thing with him (RH is great writer). Back to G'g Wrong.  What a marvelous story.  The delusion and obsession of the criminal who still loves his high school girlfriend is shown matter of factly and chillingly by RR. This is true psychosis, where in the face of overwheming, stark and impossible to deny reality, the protagonist continues to be deluded and act on his delusions.  RR's favorite theme of obsession is in play in this novel, but it is the delusion, actually hallucinatory behavior that moves this novel relentlessly, inexorably to its expected--and yet somehow unexpected end. I have read 22 of RR's novels and this one, along with the Crocodile Bird, are my favorites. Both are underrated, but I ask readers to think how much better RR's novels are when she focusses on 2, maybe 3, characters. This focus allows her to illuminate with both reason and &quot;realistic&quot; imagination the secret, psychologically deformed aspects of her characters, and, what is more important, reveals the reader's psychological deformities, which he/she cannot or, rather more likely. will not explore and confront. A great novel. Also, recommend Cook's Breakheart Hill and Taylor's The Four Last Things. Connelly's The Poet.	2003-12-06
US	24690534	RQV8GA7S5GGJL	0671887955	787739482	The Whole Truth	Books	1	1	7	N	N	Tired prose, weak plot, even weaker characters	Ms. Pickard made her name in the light-weight, fluffy detective world of the ever-perky, tart-tongued female detective. Men also creep into this odious offal of a mystery category. In this novel Ms. Pickard pulls her perky detective from the scene and tries to bring some grit and grunge into her writing. Doesn't work. Say it again: Doesn't work. She lionizes rich people in Ft. Lauderdale, shows insufficient understanding of a mentally retarded young man.  A grimy salesman from the wrong side of the tracks is invidiously belittled.  You have to smell nice to be nice in Pickard's world. I read the entire book and was rewarded with one of the grossest images ever present in a novel.  Still didn't do anything for the novel.  Also, the black prosecutor's romance with the white reporter was sooo P.C.  Why not a Cuban and an American white woman. Not P.C.  Simply awful book.	2003-12-04
US	24690534	RQIT8TOCINCVL	0312204264	8048790	Mr. White's Confession: A Novel	Books	5	11	11	N	N	A Mystery about the Mystery and Beauty of Life	What a marvelous novel: a searching exploration of memory, love, beauty, good/evil, and the hideously mistreated victim, who endures life and takes himself to a higher spiritual plateau. This novel is soaked in mystery, albeit most of it not of the superficial kind that litters most mysteries by, for example, Sandford, Grafton, Patterson, E. George.  Readers enjoy a speed read through the kinds of novels written by most mystery authors. I have no quarrel with them. But I would argue vehemently that one Mr. White's Confession is worth more than all the &quot;speed read&quot; novels put together. I am of course making a value judgment, a rather absolute one, but the depth and beauty of this novel demands praise and the most heartfelt entreaty that if you are reading this commentary that you read this novel--your life will be enriched. This novel almost broke my heart at several points. But what it really did is stir into my consciousness the memories of love and beauty in my own life; it made me take stock of where I have been and how important it is that my future create memories that are full of love and beauty. Read this book and be the wiser for having read it.	2003-12-02
US	24690534	R124V0HT0HKAZX	067173430X	654589266	Dead Crazy (Jenny Cain Mysteries, No. 5)	Books	1	2	3	N	N	Shallow story and insipid prose make a classic mediocrity.	I do not like light-weight &quot;mysteries&quot; or suspense stories, of which this novel is a paradigm. The protagonist tries to be witty, in a kind of purified, decadent French way, but she still sounds like a hick from upstate New York. Her relationship with her lazy employee (Derek) would only work if she had a good, meaty affair with him. The story pooh-poohs the presence of a recreation hall for seriously ill men and women.  Only a fool would not object to a facility that is designed for failure: the mentally ill will be allowed to wander in and out of this playground. The plot moves along &quot;smoothly&quot; with no edge, no suspense, leaving the reader numbed from its extreme dullness.	2003-11-27
US	24690534	R3GQ0JMR4L9ZVY	0312983603	724236458	The Mermaids Singing (Dr. Tony Hill & Carol Jordan Mysteries)	Books	2	5	6	N	N	Too much gore, not enough substance	Enjoyed Tony Hill, both his skills and his mental problems. The story was marred by an obscene amount of graphically described gore--wholly unecessary. The author's preoccupation with sadism, torture and sexual stimulation caused by the violence and torture seemed shallow, almost aimed at justifying sado-masochistic relationships. The serial killer plot was standard and cliched.  Characterization of Brandon, Carol (female cop)were pretty good--especially Brandon. The sociopathic killer was sick and disgusting--but no subtlety of characterization--just globs of violence, torture and gore. The fact that the killer is sexually stmulated by torture etc. seemed not justified, but only served to viscerally punch the reader in the groin.	2003-11-18
US	24690534	RSYIAS5Z4LII0	1400045045	735398183	The Blood Doctor: A Novel	Books	1	2	10	N	N	Lots of verbiage that delivers little.	Barbara (Ruth) may have enjoyed writing this novel that varies in large part from her usual novel. I don't feel that she<BR> need justify why she would write such an abysmal novel. I have read about 15 of her novels, some of which I have enjoyed and some she should have have spent more time in the library researching the criminal mind instead of settling for nature descriptions.  In any event, this blood doctor promised a lot, delivering almost nothing.  Her prose is excellent, but her refusal to do something with the narrator is inexcusable.  I realize that all the plaudits she has received probably prevent her from reading two Yank novelists, but reading Thomas Cook, specifically Breakheart Hill  and Michael Connelly's novels ( any and all of them, but particularly The Poet, Void Moon, and several of the Bosch novels) could enrich her novels, should she write another.  The Crocodile novel was excellent; but Road Rage, what a disappointment. Blood Doctor was the worst of all possible worlds, not suspense, no insight and silly biography. Reginald Hill, anybody?	2003-11-16
US	24690534	R13MF69Y5BJ1MN	1569472564	120001981	The Vault	Books	2	2	9	N	N	Plot plods while characters bore readers.	What a disappointment. Being from the colonies (U.S)  Perhaps my disdain for this &quot;novel&quot; can be explained by my inability to enter into the depth charge caverns of the British mind.  But, since  I applaud Rendell, Reginald Hill and some of Rankin, I can not be accused of some kind of prejudice against the mother country.  Poor plotting, even worse characterization and s shallow main character make this one of the worst books I have read in many a year.  Diamonds, sliamonds, Why doesn't England stop writing suspense novels, until the have absorbed Connelly and Cook. Shallow and poorly written, this story makes the Brit tabloids seem like Austen.	2003-11-16
US	24690534	R16ML06T0R91R4	0892963891	761691187	Going Wrong	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Psychotic obsessive love lures the reader into his insanity.	Probably Rendell's most underrated novel (compare highly rated A Dark Adapted Eye or Judgment in Stone, neither of which has the Poe-like sublime beauty and the painful tragedy of this novel) I will not give away the plot except to say that the theme is universal. A man  cannot escape his first love when he and his beloved were teenagers. A haunting story of a man totally deluded about his first love and how he manages to keep her tied to him for many years.  Her behavior is odd, but look somewhat deeply into her personality, her family etc. and her behavior is explicable; she is probably to blame for his obsession/delusion because she herself can't let go of his craziness, which she ironically encourages. A remarkable book. Read it.	2003-11-07
US	24690534	R4OU94S5P9RQX	0451406346	27250955	No Night Is Too Long	Books	5	6	9	N	N	What a marvelous novel!	This book has no main character; it has a narrator, but he is only part of the story...The homosexual professor who loves the narrator is a complex, loving, obsessive character whose life ends in tragedy. The girl with whom Cornish falls in love is also a tragic character, as is her love with Cornish. Cornish survives, but his live is merely a streaming banality; however, it can be argued that he prefers his dull life to the tempestuous loves with the woman and the professor. I believe that this book is one of Rendell's best, perhaps her best. Too often in her later fiction she offers the reader atmosphere that is actually just padding, immaterial to the novel. In this story her atmosphere, her tone and mood, her complex characterizations and her ability to draw the perceptive, sensitive reader into the lives of the main characters--particularly the professor--gave this reader chills, vicarious love, and ultimately streams of tears.  AN OVERPOWERING NOVEL; READ IT...NOW!!! (almost a good as Cook's Breakheart Hill and Taylor's The Four Last Things.	2003-11-07
US	24690534	R37FQIJK4E4DN1	0060528052	99496212	Death's Jest-Book	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Hill takes risks. Succeeds admirably.	This novel is an extraordinarily well-written hymn of praise to the soul and imagination of man. Certainly not a traditional suspense novel and difficult to read if you like Elmore Leonard or, even early days Hill, Jest-Book is more a book of the heart, than one of the mind--action is also downplayed until the very end of the book and is done very well.  Franny Root's letters to Peter provide the motif for the novel and are its core.  Beautifully written, full of nature, sensuality, beauty, passion and mystery, they beg for a positive response from Peter, which he can never give. Peter's regret that he didn't pursue an academic career, his jealousy of his wife's writing and her intellectual life is displaced with malicious animus towards Franny.  There is always some question about Franny's motives, but I think most would agree that he genuinly likes Peter,wants to be his friend and inspire Peter to be a better person.<BR>    The plot involving Weildy is deftly handled with poignancy and love. This plot line gives us Hill's most tragic, most searing death.<BR>     The one flaw, and I believe it to be a big one, is the handling of Rye P.  Whatever her psychological and physical problem may be, she needs to be held accountable for her actions--if for no other reason (and a big one) that Dick Dee's honesty and integrity needs to be retrieved, preserved and celebrated. Her suicide at the end of the book was dishonest and untrue to Dialogues.  Hat should have understood who did all the killing in Dialogues.  If he wants to forgive her fine, but to omit this from the story poisons both books.  Also, one sentence indicating that Dalziel knew the truth about what happend with Dick Dee is only sufficient if the author wants to make clear to the reader that he is a \\"bent\\" cop.  Those deaths in Dialogue were not the kind you write off. Why not vindicate Charley? Why not end the story with the chance that D and P may be demoted for altering a gruesome crime scene? Mr. Hill, isDalziel really just the drunken joking philistine that he often seems to be? Is he a value relativist, who has corrupted Peter (yes, I think so)?  In any event you have validated my reading most of your books laughing at Dalziel, not laughing with him. He is an anti-hero, good for a few yuks, essential to your stories, but decadent and more often than not detestable.    <BR>    Back to Jest-book. The other reviews conflict with mine. Read this marvelous book and decide for yourself.	2003-11-04
