US	24720704	R1JGU5RJHA14H0	059523125X	778757993	The Way: A Discovery of the Grail of Immortality Welsh Witchcraft and the Old Religion	Books	5	9	9	N	N	For Beginners and Experts Alike	A friend of mine bought me this book when I was starting to grow my roots in Welsh witchcraft, and I really do owe her one. Some people think that Rhuddlwm Gawr - Goddess bless his soul - was too 'loose' when he wrote this, and that he is trying to tell people that Welsh witchcraft is whatever they want it to be. I disagree with this allegation - he says in the book that this is not his intention, and I never got the feeling that it was. <br />Perhaps the most helpful part of the book for those who aren't total beginners is the Book of Shadows section.  While it's best to use spells and rituals of your own creation, Rhuddlwm's  rituals are good examples to read if you get stuck writing your own. This book would also be good for people who don't practice Welsh witchcraft but would like to know more about it. Rhuddlwm presents the information in a user-friendly way that is very good for beginners or experts alike. Even though I don't consider myself a beginner per se, I still use this book as a reference from time to time. <br />I recommend this book for all budding Welsh witches (and their family members who want to know what's going on).	2003-11-22
US	24720704	R27S5BS6MRVY1M	059523027X	16105856	1: Celtic Crystal Magick: Volume One Stones for Healing	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Excellent Crystal Book for your Library	I love this book. I like all of Rhuddlwm Gawr's books, but this is probably my favorite. He writes so clearly and warmly..his love of the craft is shown through his writing. <br />The book is well-organized, with chapters.  Chapter 1 talks about Atlantis.  Personally after hearing about a city over 9,000 years old in the depths off cuba, I believe.  Chapter 2 is theory, which talks about the different aspects of the energy. chapter 3 talks about spiritual attunement; chapter 4 talks about healing; chapter 5 talk about power, and chapter 6 talks about the actual minerals and crystals.  chapter 7 reveals crystal magick techniques.  then there are three appendix's and biographical info.<br />If you were only to get one book on crystal magic, get this one. It has all the information you need on how to get started. The instructions are thorough and the rituals are simple and sweet. <BR>A must have for your library.	2003-11-22
US	24720704	R34L1XA04SVHGM	0931760135	761004819	Pagan Herbal: Herbs of Welsh Witchcraft	Books	5	7	7	N	N	One of the Best Herbal Books on ancient Welsh Medicine	This is the most accurate book on Welsh herbalism I have ever seen.  You would really have to search to find a book of herbs giving all the Welsh names.  Authentic material.  Very well researched.<br />I am an herbalist and a naturopathic physician.  I know.  You can't go wrong in purchasing this volume at any price.	2003-11-22
US	24720704	R2VJK8NOZL8UVX	0931760429	281653918	13 Mystical Treasures: The Tools of Welsh Witchcraft	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Tools for Welsh Ritual	As a native of Wales, I was very interested to read this book. Being a folklorist, I was interested in that it was supposed to caontain authentic elements of Welsh folklore and folk magic, mixed with various aspects of Welsh Witchcraft. But as the author clearly states in the introduction, portions of the material are also mixed with some modern Welsh witchcraft elements. I found very little of this mixture, but it is present as the author readily admits several places in this book. <BR>Rhuddlwm states in the book that he created a system called the Y Tylwyth Teg Tradition for Americans to practice, which is a blend of old and new material. There is a chapter dealing with the modern Y Tylwyth Teg Tradition. The remaining chapters all contain authentic Welsh material of Dynion Mwyn, much of it verified by research.	2003-11-22
US	24720704	RBM4OLHKIJ5AT	0931760240	587899334	Celtic Divination: Witchcraft, Dowsing and Ley Lines	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Welsh Divination and Dowsing	As a native of Wales, I was very interested to read this book. It contains authentic elements of dowsing and divination theory  mixed with various aspects of Welsh Witchcraft. But as the author clearly states in the introduction, portions of the material are also mixed with some modern dowsing techniques. I found very little of this mixture, but it is present as the author readily admits several places in this book. <br />Rhuddlwm states in the book that he created a system called the Y Tylwyth Teg Tradition for Americans to practice, which is a blend of old and new material. There is a chapter dealing with the modern Y Tylwyth Teg Tradition. The remaining chapters all contain older and authentic Welsh dowsing and divination material of Dynion Mwyn, much of it verified by master dowsers. <br />For some additional background reading on Dowsing, I would suggest anything published by the American Society of Dowsers or the Britsh Society for Dowsing.	2003-11-22
US	24720704	R2I8GG1DDAHODG	0931760283	416197718	The Way: The Discovery of the Grail of Immortality	Books	5	9	10	N	N	This is The Way of Welsh Witchcraft	As a professional folklorist and a native of Wales now living here in the U.S., I was very interested to read this book. It contains authentic elements of Welsh folklore and folk magic, mixed with various aspects of Welsh Witchcraft. But as the author clearly states in the introduction, portions of the material are also mixed with some modern witchcraft elements. I found very little of this mixture, but it is present as the author readily admits several places in this book. <br />Rhuddlwm states in the book that he created a system called the Y Tylwyth Teg Tradition for Americans to practice, which is a blend of old and new material. There are chapters dealing with the modern Y Tylwyth Teg Tradition. The remaining chapters all contain older and authentic Welsh material of Dynion Mwyn, much of it verified by the field research of several folklorists. <br />For some additional background reading on Welsh folklore, I would suggest Taliesin by John Matthews, The Four Ancient Books of Wales, by WF Skene. and Trioedd ynys Prydein by Rachel Bromwich.	2003-11-22
US	24720704	R1WYE0MTG9CE3I	0931760437	892213927	Cauldron: Celtic Mythology and Witchcraft	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Welsh Mythology - Wonderful Concept	As a professional folklorist and a native of Wales, I was very interested to read this book. It contains authentic elements of Welsh folklore and folk magic, mixed with various aspects of Welsh Witchcraft. But as the author clearly states in the introduction, portions of the material are also mixed with some modern Welsh witchcraft elements. I found very little of this mixture, but it is present as the author readily admits several places in this book. <br />Rhuddlwm states in the book that he created a system called the Y Tylwyth Teg Tradition for Americans to practice, which is a blend of old and new material. There is a chapter dealing with the modern Y Tylwyth Teg Tradition. The remaining chapters all contain older and authentic Welsh mythology material of Dynion Mwyn, much of it verified by the field research of several folklorists. <br />For some additional background reading on Welsh folklore, I would suggest Taliesin by John Matthews, The Four Ancient Books of Wales, by WF Skene. and Trioedd ynys Prydein by Rachel Bromwich.	2003-11-22
US	24720704	R2D71Q00MQDQ3J	0595258085	223027867	The Word: Welsh Witchcraft, The Grail of Immortality And The Sacred Keys	Books	5	7	9	N	N	It fulfills a Great Need	When this book first came out in the early 80s it filled a real need - it still does.  You will find everything here that you need for effective natural spiritual practice, for make no mistake- that is what true Witchcraft is. The first section of the book is largely informative and theoretical. The Welsh Deities are covered, both Goddess and God, in their various historical variations. The nature of magick as the projection of natural energies is then examined. Following this, the various magical tools as symbolic foci for concentration are covered (from Athame to wand.) Next, the importance of music, dance, and gesture in establishing ritual consciousness is dealt with. Following is the significance of ritual and preparation for ritual (if you are not centered in the proper frame of mind, then all the ritual in the world is not going to do you any good.) The importance of setting up a ritual space, the magic circle and altar, and its meaning and symbolism is explained. Then comes a discussion of the Sabbats and the natural cycle of seasons and their respective energies and lessons. This discussion of natural cycles leads naturally to an examination of the spiral of rebirth (reincarnation.) Finally, the question of initiation is discussed. <br />Then it moves on to practice, as opposed to strictly intellectual study. Here you learn the sound basics of actual magical techniques (breathing, meditation, visualization, and channeling energy.) Next comes dedication.  Finally comes all the steps to ritual design (purification of self, of space, creating sacred space, invocation, ritual observance, energy raising, earthing the power, thanking the Gods, and breaking the circle.) No matter what spiritual path that you may later choose to follow, these are foundations that will carry over and serve you well. <br />Finally,  a complete Book of Shadows (a highly personal individual book of rituals, spells, and magical lore) is included, which you may use as is, or use as a model upon which to pattern your own. <br />In the back you have a glossary of all the specialized terms used in the text. There is also an excellent bibliography of books for further specialized study, as well as, a full index. The two appendixes of occult suppliers and publications may be a bit out of date.	2003-11-22
US	24720704	RH71LTPTM4WGL	0931760054	582644507	Celtic Rites & Rituals: Witches, Druids & Seasonal Festivals	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Welsh Witchcraft Rituals	My copy, which is one of the first I bought in the early 80's states the book was a collaberation between taliesin einion vawr and Rhuddlwm Gawr.  No matter who wrote it, as a professional folklorist and a native of Wales, I was very interested to read this book. It contains authentic elements of Welsh folklore and folk magic, mixed with various aspects of Welsh Witchcraft. But as the authors clearly states in the introduction, portions of the material are also mixed with some modern witchcraft elements. I found very little of this mixture, but it is present as the authors readily admit, in several places in this book. <br />Taliesin and Rhuddlwm state in the book that they created a system called the Y Tylwyth Teg Tradition for Americans to practice, which is a blend of old and new material. There are two chapters dealing with the modern Y Tylwyth Teg Tradition. The remaining chapters all contain older and authentic Welsh ritual material of Dynion Mwyn, much of it verified by the field research of several folklorists. <br />For some additional background reading on Welsh folklore, I would suggest Taliesin by John Matthews, The Four Ancient Books of Wales, by WF Skene. and Trioedd ynys Prydein by Rachel Bromwich.	2003-11-22
US	24720704	R3GIJ7OUVM3O0G	0931760380	551658052	Mysteries of Witchcraft	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Welsh Mysteries for Welsh Witches	As a professional folklorist and a native of Wales, I was very interested to read this book. It contains authentic elements of Welsh folklore and folk magic, mixed with various aspects of Welsh Witchcraft. But as the author clearly states in the introduction, portions of the material are also mixed with some modern Welsh witchcraftn elements. I found very little of this mixture, but it is present as the author readily admits several places in this book. <br />Rhuddlwm states in the book that he created a system called the Y Tylwyth Teg Tradition for Americans to practice, which is a blend of old and new material. There is a chapter dealing with the modern Y Tylwyth Teg Tradition. The remaining chapters all contain older and authentic Welsh material of Dynion Mwyn, much of it verified by the field research of several folklorists. These are the Mysteries.<br />For some additional background reading on Welsh tradition, I would suggest Taliesin by John Matthews, The Four Ancient Books of Wales, by WF Skene. and Trioedd ynys Prydein by Rachel Bromwich.	2003-11-22
US	24720704	RYREMJ8JSN8SB	0595201245	34344444	The Quest: A Search for the Grail of Immortality	Books	5	9	9	N	N	The Next Step	Unlike a number of other books on witchcraft, The Quest  is about the spirituality of welsh witchcraft and the authors, rhuddlwm gawr and marcy edwards,  takes you on a journey to discover the basic principles that unite all witches. <br />Ask any long-time witch and she will most likely tell you that spell-casting is but a part of being a witch. We spend quite a bit of our time doing &quot;normal&quot; things: dishes, laundry, shoveling snow, mowing the lawn, and cursing at the computer.   Spell-casting is usually set aside for occasions of great need. <br />Rhuddlwm amd marcy expose our connection with trees, stones, fire, and the natural world very truthfully.  They teach by using conversation to reveal the symbolic meanings for mythological magical items such as the cauldron and the broom. There are also the meanings and the use of the tools of the Craft: the pentacle, wand, athame, and chalice. Nearly all of the basics of the Path are covered here. <br />So what makes a welsh  witch? Who is allowed to be a witch?  The answer to those questions changes with each witch you ask. Despite this little glitch,  rhuddlwm gawr and marcy edwards walk the noble path of self-discovery and give the readers the knowledge they need to determine if this path is for them. <BR>Sabbats, Solstices, and Equinoxes; responsibility for our own actions, and self-discipline are all discussed within the pages of this book. <br />After you have gotten your fill of spell-crafting and beginner's books, The Quest offers the reader the next step into the realm of witchcraft: The Welsh Way	2003-11-22
US	24720704	RA1L9JQAJSH5Y	059523027X	16105856	1: Celtic Crystal Magick: Volume One Stones for Healing	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Best Book on Crystals I have read this Year	The book has the easy readability of Norton or Nelson. Extremely wonderful concise technical style with excellent research in all areas of Crystals. This is clearly written by someone who doesn't care whether anyone reads it or not, he has obviously written it as a research source for future books and documants.  I could use this one book as a \\"reminder\\" about several crystals and gemstones and their uses in Magick.<br />This American author is entirely supported by the Dynion Mwyn in Wales. (I know because I am one.) Forgive me if I do not write in the stilted jerky pattern of the uneducated basher/reviewer, but I wish you to understand me.<br />The author has retired so I have heard. He is completing several new books and revising several others that will be reprinted by a new publisher.<br />I am English. I am proud of it. I live in Wales and used to be proud of my Welshness until I started reading the reviews by a few extremists who do not like what the author has said. He is too near the truth. I have not met the author but I have met others who have met him. No cults there. he does not want followers and instead refers seekers to the various covens and groves around the world. No cult there.<br />The author tells a story. He is a Yank and tells it in Yank terms. That just seems to incite these welsh extremists to become aggravated.<br />The negative reviewers (who are all the same person trying to disquise their writing style) expose themselves as not even bothering to read the book because their review is erroneous and they tend to say the same thing about all his books. Some which have been out of print for years. <br />This is an excellent book about someone who has trod the path to enlightenment and tells you in no uncertain terms, he is still looking and so should you. For further information, go to [...]<BR>EXCELLENT BOOK. Read it for yourself since it is very inexpensive. By the way, the author receives no royalties, it goes directly into several Pagancharities, which should really anger the rhuddlwm bashers.	2003-11-08
US	24720704	R3BNN75SVOGC	0595258085	223027867	The Word: Welsh Witchcraft, The Grail of Immortality And The Sacred Keys	Books	5	12	14	N	N	The Word is Welsh and Americal - Great Mix	We Celtic Welsh Pagans feel very strongly about The Word. The description of rites and religion are almost entirely associated with the United States, as it should be since the author is American. But the Welsh Pagan and Magickal culture it explores from an American perspective is enlightening. I find it refreshing and not unfavorable to The Welsh. I also, as an English resident of Wales feel the witchcraft trashers should get a life and work towards obtaining a totally separate government, then they can make it a law that only Welsh citizens may write about Wales. I do not agree entirely with the author as far as some of his ideas are concerned but as far as I can surmise, ideas are part of the freedoms guaranteed by the United Nations Declaration of Human Rights. I applaud the author. He obviously doesn't mind the attention for i have seen articles by some of his supporters in publications here in the UK as well as the US. I hope he makes a ton of English Pounds, Euros, Francs and dollars.	2003-11-08
US	24720704	RJE8RRMBKA5AB	0931760240	587899334	Celtic Divination: Witchcraft, Dowsing and Ley Lines	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Great book on Divination	We Celtic Welsh Pagans feel very strongly about books which give us a taste of authentic celtic magickal arts.  This is Celtic knowledge with a Welsh/American perspective. But the Welsh Magickal culture it explores from an American perspective is enlightening. I find it refreshing and not unfavorable to The Welsh. I also, as an English resident of Wales feel the Welsh atheist witchcraft trashers should get a life and work towards obtaining a totally separate government, then they can make it a law that only Welsh citizens may write about Wales. I do not agree entirely with the author as far as some of his ideas are concerned but as far as I can surmise, ideas are part of the freedoms guaranteed by the United Nations declaration of human rights. I applaud the author. He obviously doesn't mind the attention for i have seen articles by some of his supporters in publications here in the UK as well as the US. I hope he makes a ton of English Pounds, Euros, Francs and dollars.	2003-11-08
US	24720704	R3TCKF6MCUJM8H	0931760283	416197718	The Way: The Discovery of the Grail of Immortality	Books	5	9	10	N	N	The Way Sings	And rightly so. We Celtic Welsh Pagans feel very strongly about The Way. The story takes place almost entirely in the United States. But the Welsh Magickal culture it explores from an American perspective is enlightening. I find it refreshing and not unfavorable to The Welsh. I also, as an English resident of Wales feel the witchcraft trashers should get a life and work towards obtaining a totally separate government, then they can make it a law that only Welsh citizens may write about Wales. I do not agree entirely with the author as far as some of his ideas are concerned but as far as I can surmise, ideas are part of the freedoms guaranteed by the United Nations declaration of human rights. I applaud the author. He obviously doesn't mind the attention for i have seen articles by some of his supporters in publications here in the UK as well as the US. I hope he makes a ton of English Pounds, Euros, Francs and dollars.	2003-11-08
US	24720704	R31OL01EEFQU4	0931760011	34344444	The Quest: A Search for the Grail of Immortality	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Very Good Book	The book has the easy readability of Buckland or Murray. Extremely wonderful personal style with excellent research in every area.  This is clearly written by someone who doesn't care whether anyone reads it or not, he has obviously written it for himself.<br />The claims concerning Wales are very well proven. This is why this American author is entirely supported by the Dynion Mwyn in Wales.  (I know because I am one.  Forgive me if I do not write in the stilted jerky pattern of the uneducated basher/reviewer, but I wish you to understand me.<br />Those rhuddlwm haters and bashers have as their \\"proof\\" no proof.  They just claim this or that and hope the reader believes it. The author has no enemies and has retired so I have heard.  He is completing the revision of several more books that will be reprinted by a new publisher.<br />I am English.  I am proud of it.  I live in Wales and used to be proud of my Welshness until I started reading the reviews by a few extremists who do not like what the author has said.  He is too near the truth.  I have not met the author but I have met others who have met him.  No cults there.  he does not want followers and instead refers seekers to the various covens and groves around the world.  No cult there.<br />The author tells a story.  He is a Yank and tells it in Yank terms.  That just seems to incite these welsh extremists to become aggravated.<br />The negative reviewers (who are all the same person trying to disquise their writing style) expose themselves as not even bothering to read the book because their review is erroneous and they tend to say the same thing about all his books.  Some which have been out of print for years.  <br />This is an excellent book about someone who has trod the path to enlightenment and tells you in no uncertain terms, he is still looking and so should you.  For further information, go to [...]<BR>EXCELLENT BOOK.  Read it for yourself since it is very inexpensive.  By the way, the author receives no royalties, it goes directly into several Pagan charities, which should really anger the rhuddlwm bashers.	2003-11-08
US	24720704	R36W7XS63UNTI7	0931760429	281653918	13 Mystical Treasures: The Tools of Welsh Witchcraft	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Welsh Witch Tools	We Celtic Welsh Pagans feel very strongly about making our own tools. The information is presented from and american perspective but the Welsh Magickal culture it explores from an American perspective is enlightening. I find it refreshing and not unfavorable to The Welsh. I also, as an English resident of Wales feel the witchcraft trashers should get a life and work towards obtaining a totally separate government, then they can make it a law that only Welsh citizens may write about Wales. I do not agree entirely with the author as far as some of his ideas are concerned but as far as I can surmise, ideas are part of the freedoms guaranteed by the United Nations declaration of human rights. I applaud the author. He obviously doesn't mind the attention for i have seen articles by some of his supporters in publications here in the UK as well as the US. I hope he makes a ton of English Pounds, Euros, Francs and dollars.  Go to [...]	2003-11-08
US	24720704	R18JRCB5SNKFTD	0931760135	761004819	Pagan Herbal: Herbs of Welsh Witchcraft	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Celtic Herbs and Herbcraft for Wales	We Celtic Welsh Pagans feel very strongly about a Pagan Herbal. The English is US.  Duhhh.  The author is an American.  But the Welsh culture it explores from an American perspective is enlightening. I find it refreshing and not unfavorable to The Welsh. I also, as an English resident of Wales feel the witchcraft trashers should get a life and work towards obtaining a totally separate government, then they can make it a law that only Welsh citizens may write about Wales. I do not agree entirely with the author as far as some of his ideas are concerned but as far as I can surmise, ideas are part of the freedoms guaranteed by the United Nations declaration of human rights. I applaud the author. He obviously doesn't mind the attention for i have seen articles by some of his supporters in publications here in the UK as well as the US. I hope he makes a ton of English Pounds, Euros, Francs and dollars.	2003-11-08
US	24720704	RRAXFS3YSGCQC	059523125X	778757993	The Way: A Discovery of the Grail of Immortality Welsh Witchcraft and the Old Religion	Books	5	11	11	N	N	The Way is a Recommended book by most Celtic Covens.	And rightly so.  We Celtic Welsh Pagans feel very strongly about The Way.  The story takes place almost entirely in the United States.  But the Welsh Magickal culture it explores from an American perspective is enlightening.  I find it refreshing and not unfavorable to The Welsh.  I also, as an English resident of Wales feel the witchcraft trashers should get a life and work towards obtaining a totally separate government, then they can make it a law that only Welsh citizens may write about Wales.  I do not agree entirely with the author as far as some of his ideas are concerned but as far as I can surmise, ideas are part of the freedoms guaranteed by the United Nations declaration of human rights.  I applaud the author.  He obviously doesn't mind the attention for i have seen articles by some of his supporters in publications here in the UK as well as the US. I hope he makes a ton of English Pounds, Euros, Francs and dollars.	2003-11-08
US	24720704	R3OXAVXPOHVQ8R	0931760054	582644507	Celtic Rites & Rituals: Witches, Druids & Seasonal Festivals	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Welsh Rites and Rituals	I have been using these rituals for several years.  I am Welsh.  We Celtic Welsh Pagans feel very strongly about Celtic Rites and Rituals. The idiom is English of the United States.  But the Welsh Magickal culture it explores from an American perspective is enlightening. I find it refreshing and not unfavorable to The Welsh. I also, as an English resident of Wales feel the witchcraft trashers should get a life and work towards obtaining a totally separate government, then they can make it a law that only Welsh citizens may write about Wales. I do not agree entirely with the author as far as some of his ideas are concerned but as far as I can surmise, ideas are part of the freedoms guaranteed by the United Nations declaration of human rights. I applaud the author. He obviously doesn't mind the attention for i have seen articles by some of his supporters in publications here in the UK as well as the US. I hope he makes a ton of English Pounds, Euros, Francs and dollars.	2003-11-08
US	24720704	R1OGTKF5EXQ7A8	0931760917	13529777	2: Celtic Crystal Magick	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Excellent Reference	My review is based on the revised 2002 second volume, third printing of this title. The first edition went through 12 printings, evidence that this book will be a sought-after reference for years to come. <br />Rhuddlwm introduced the secrets and powers of over 70 gems and metals in his book. What I find especially pleasing is the color insert in the middle. The photos are clear and brilliant, very colorful samples of some of the most popular magical gems. Hematite or bloodstone, is one of my favorites. This book reveals the folk name as being &quot;volcano spit.&quot; Its element is fire, and powers are healing, grounding, and divination. You will learn magical lore and uses for many stones, but most of all you will be encouraged to use the ones that speak to your personally. <br />I have a friend who collects rocks wherever she goes, and has a story for each one of them. She even inherited a jar of rocks from her Great Grandmother, a gift that is precious to her. She will love this title. Any rock collector or person who uses stones as a spiritual tool should get this book in their reference collection!	2003-11-05
US	24720704	RM9EXBP64GA88	059523027X	16105856	1: Celtic Crystal Magick: Volume One Stones for Healing	Books	5	9	10	N	N	A good Reference!	My review is based on the revised 2002, sixth printing of this title. The first edition went through 10 printings, evidence that this book will be a sought-after reference for years to come. <br />Rhuddlwm introduced the secrets and powers of over 70 gems and metals in his book. What I find especially pleasing is the psychic attributes. One of my favorites is hematite.  This book revealed the folk name as being &quot;volcano spit.&quot; Its element is fire, and powers are healing, grounding, and divination. You will learn magical lore and uses for many stones, but most of all you will be encouraged to use the ones that speak to your heart personally. <br />I have a friend who collects rocks wherever she goes, and has a story for each one of them. She even inherited a jar of rocks from her Great Grandmother, a gift that is precious to her. She loves this title. Any rock collector or person who uses stones as a spiritual tool should get this book in their reference collection!	2003-11-05
US	24720704	R1R9S9OUNJY1XK	0931760135	761004819	Pagan Herbal: Herbs of Welsh Witchcraft	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Magickal Herbalism	I really loved this book; I am really interested in herbal magickal properties, and it states things plainly and easily. I use it constantly to check on certain herbs, especially when an inexperienced friend calls on me as an expert! The only problems I have are that I'd have liked more specific spells listed, and more pictures for identifying herbs. But all in all, a great book.	2003-11-05
US	24720704	RTAXPAZZ7RJ4N	059523125X	778757993	The Way: A Discovery of the Grail of Immortality Welsh Witchcraft and the Old Religion	Books	5	15	15	N	N	The nasty reviewers must be frustrated Christians	In the United States, Wicca and Witchcraft have by and large degenerated into silliness, choked on spells and drugs. Here in Wales, it is difficult to even mention the fact that Witchcraft exists because of the foolish people who try to compare it with known History.  This is unfortunate; the religion of Taliesin einion Vawr, Gerald Gardner (and later Alex Sanders) had solid scholarly as well as  mystical roots. While some of those roots have since become suspect -- there was real intellectual activity, appreciation for the mysteries, and real philosophical rigor, behind this religion. These were serious people who weren't afraid to visit a library, expose their family history, and who even included some decent poetry in their rituals.  Go to their web page at [...] if you want the real truth behind their religion.<br />*The Quest* is written by two Welsh Witches. The title does not lie: it truly is a Quest of &quot;The Way&quot; of Welsh Witchcraft. After reading this, you will know what a Circles is, What Welsh Witchcraft is. You won't be an initiated Witch -- that can only be done by someone who possesses the lineage to do so -- but you will be able to serve the God and Goddess in a Welsh Witch style. You will also be ready to study for initiation and to reap its benefits and fulfill its responsibilities. <br />This book isn't perfect: I disagree with some of their views on gender polarity. Still, it deserves 5 stars merely because it stands so far above its competition. This volume will prove more useful to you than any of the silly fluffy-bunny trash which pollutes so many Newage bookstores today. It's Witchcraft as it was, as it could be, and as it should have been. You will appreciate our country within a country after you read this book.  It is Real.  No Neopagan should be without it.	2003-11-03
US	24720704	R32IDM0A1H1GEL	0931760917	13529777	2: Celtic Crystal Magick	Books	5	8	8	N	N	This must be the second volume	First, let me say I just had to write this reveiw. Secondly, I am Welsh and by virtue of the fact that the Welsh nation is a Celtic one, I am a Celt. Thirdly, I use crystals, buy crystals in Wales and use them for healing and dowsing. Fourthly, therefore Celts use crystals and the previous reviewers are bonkers, and don't know what they talk about. Finally, let me say that although I am a Welsh Witch, I am not a member of the authors tradition. If you are interested in that tradition, they are at: [...] that is where I found links to the book. That said, I believe that this would be a great book for someone with some experience in Witchcraft, but is just starting out in Crystals. I also believe that Rhuddlwm's book isn't for someone who is trying to learn about Crystal Magick by themselves. I think that it lacks explanations for some terms that a beginning Crystal Healer or Welsh Witch would not know without an explanation. I think that it's WONDERFUL for someone who has had a some amount of experience and read a few books but I don't think this should be the absolute first book that should be read by someone interested in Crystal Magick. I like the idea that it covers a wide range of gem stones and crystals and not just those found in Wales. But, it seems to be aimed towards someone who is at least somewhat familiar with gems for healing. I believe that this would be great as a guide book for someone who has a teacher or a little experience, but for those of us beginning Witches and anyone who even has a slight interest in Crystals and gemstones for their Magickal properties, I wouldn't recommend this book as the absolutely know all, see all book. I believe there is a second volume. I think that may help explain some of the terms. I hope so. BUT, Rhuddlwm's book does wonders for me, but at times has left me with some confusion but otherwise, in general, it's a wonderful book. I hope that all people interested in working with crystals, should consider this book, butothers in conjunction with this book or have some experience before considering to follow through with this book and take Celtic Crystal magick all at once. It's an expansive art, science, and religion but we must keep an open mind and consider all sources. Remember also that all authors who right these books realize that they don't know all and that they would want us, as readers to not take on a personality that would criticize others books simply because they don't compare with a book such as this. All in all, I believe that this is a great book, but read something a little more basic first, before reading this one. This will help you clarify terms that you may see in this book that you don't understand and save you a large amount of confusion. No author is better than any other as far as their beliefs. So after reading some basic books on crystals, if you wish to delve into Crystal Magick more completely, this book is for you! Remember, always keep an open mind and criticize politely and with respect...this is called CONSTRUCTIVE criticism, not &quot;this is a terrible book...yada yada yada.&quot; Welsh Witchcraft teaches us to be accepting and kind and most of all RESPECT those around you as you would nature itself.<br />Mary	2003-11-03
US	24720704	RXBMCTOM4J89Z	0931760135	761004819	Pagan Herbal: Herbs of Welsh Witchcraft	Books	5	8	8	N	N	The book on Welsh Herbalism with a magickal bent.	If you look at the previous bad reviews, you will see that the people in this &quot;Trash Welsh Witchcraft club&quot; can't spell, do not know their own history and about all they can do is speak a little Welsh.  That's fine because we Welsh have a long history of not doing what some people want us to do.<br />But I was a little hesitant to write this review.  I am afraid these Welsh terroristic reviewers may find out who I am.  There have been rumours that other real Witches have been threatened by them.  They certainly are uneducated aren't they?<br />But, I really wish more Welsh non-pagans and Welsh non-witches would read this book. It has a ton of information, yes, it is very advanced.  There are few spells, so its not for someone who is looking for Witchcraft or paganism as a way to practice hebalsim and be different from their friends, but a look at true religion. It has history, and ethics and practices and beliefs, something everyone should know. Beginning Welsh Witches should read this book. I have never read a book yet that has absolutly everything - but this is close - and teaches true Herbalism. It is totally obvious the previous reviewers didn't even read the book, much less know what it contains.  They are just silly.<br />One really good book, and the first I ever read, was Herbalism by Paul Huson. It gives a ton of great herbal information, in a little bit easier to understand format. But I think everyone should read this book. I agree that the word &quot;Welsh&quot; threw me off in buying it, only because I didn't want to look like I was trying to be one of the wanna be wiccans who are interested in it because its a book that stands out. But I am extremly glad that I did buy it. My copy will soon be doggeared and stained and dusty and look as well used and read and loved as any ritualistic book should. all I can say is buy it, read it, if you don't understand it the first time, read it again. If that still doesn't work, keep it, and read it after practicing longer, and after reading some of the easier to read books. But keep this book.  It is the crown jewel of Welsh herbal Lore:)	2003-11-03
US	24720704	R2JNYQBJEU4VK0	0595201245	34344444	The Quest: A Search for the Grail of Immortality	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Finally a serious book on Welsh Witchcraft	In the United States, Wicca and Witchcraft have by and large degenerated into silliness, choked on spells and drugs. Here in Wales, it is difficult to even mention the fact that Witchcraft exists because of the foolish people who try to compare it with known History.  This is unfortunate; the religion of Taliesin einion Vawr, Gerald Gardner (and later Alex Sanders) had solid scholarly as well as  mystical roots. While some of those roots have since become suspect -- there was real intellectual activity, appreciation for the mysteries, and real philosophical rigor, behind this religion. These were serious people who weren't afraid to visit a library, expose their family history, and who even included some decent poetry in their rituals.  Go to their web page at [...] if you want the real truth behind their religion.<br />*The Quest* is written by two Welsh Witches. The title does not lie: it truly is a Quest of &quot;The Way&quot; of Welsh Witchcraft. After reading this, you will know what a Circles is, What Welsh Witchcraft is. You won't be an initiated Witch -- that can only be done by someone who possesses the lineage to do so -- but you will be able to serve the God and Goddess in a Welsh Witch style. You will also be ready to study for initiation and to reap its benefits and fulfill its responsibilities. <br />This book isn't perfect: I disagree with some of their views on gender polarity. Still, it deserves 5 stars merely because it stands so far above its competition. This volume will prove more useful to you than any of the silly fluffy-bunny trash which pollutes so many Newage bookstores today. It's Witchcraft as it was, as it could be, and as it should have been. You will appreciate our country within a country after you read this book.  It is Real.  No Neopagan should be without it.	2003-11-03
US	24720704	R1NUM1NOU0JGRB	0931760054	582644507	Celtic Rites & Rituals: Witches, Druids & Seasonal Festivals	Books	5	9	9	N	N	THE book on Welsh and Celtic Ritual	If you look at the previous bad reviews, you will see that the people in this &quot;Trash Welsh Witchcraft club&quot; can't spell, do not know their own history and about all they can do is speak a little Welsh.  That's fine because we Welsh have a long history of not doing what some people want us to do.<br />But I was a little hesitant to write this review.  I am afraid these Welsh terroristic reviewers may find out who I am.  There have been rumours that other real Witches have been threatened by them.  They certainly are uneducated aren't they?<br />But, I really wish more Welsh non-pagans and Welsh non-witches would read this book. It has a ton of information, yes, it is very advanced.  There are some spells, so its not for someone who is looking for Witchcraft or paganism as a way to practice magick and be different from their friends, but a look at true religion. It has history, and ethics and practices and beliefs, something everyone should know. Beginning Welsh Witches should read this book. I have never read a book yet that has absolutly everything. <br />One really good book, and the first I ever read, is the ABC's of Witchcraft. It also gives a ton of great information, in a little bit easier to understand format. But I think everyone should read Celtic Rites... I agree that the word &quot;Celtic&quot; threw me off in buying it, only because I didn't want to look like I was trying to be one of the wanna be wiccans who are interested in it because its a book that stands out. But I am extremly glad that I did buy it. My copy will soon be doggeared and stained and dusty and look as well used and read and loved as any ritualistic book should. all I can say is buy it, read it, if you don't understand it the first time, read it again. If that still doesn't work, keep it, and read it after practicing longer, and after reading some of the easier to read books. But keep this book.  It is the crown jewel:)	2003-11-03
US	24720704	R1XTE34KGE12K5	0595258085	223027867	The Word: Welsh Witchcraft, The Grail of Immortality And The Sacred Keys	Books	5	12	14	N	N	This is not one word these are Magickal Words	Thank you Taliesin for the many reviews your books are getting.  thank you Rhuddlwm Gawr for your courage to continue.  Thank you Merriddin for your support.  <br />I met Taliesin einion Vawr years ago while he was still vibrant and outrageous.  But, his books were not selling, so no one knew anything about him.  Now thanks to the reviews, Taliesin and Welsh Witchcraft are getting the recognition they deserve.  Controversy always sells books.  Remember, even a bad review is a good review.  The alternative is no review at all.<br />The writings of Taliesin eionion Vawr would have been relegated to the library of obscure history if Rhuddlwm Gawr had not had the courage to oppose the Welsh Christians, Welsh Historians, and Welsh politically correct Neo-Pagans, spending his own money to have Taliesins writings reprinted.  I just wish these same nasty critics had been around twenty-five years ago when these volumes were first published.  He would be better known today.<br />In the United States, Wicca and Witchcraft have by and large degenerated into silliness, choked on spells and drugs. Here in Wales, it is difficult to even mention the fact that Witchcraft exists because of the foolish people who try to compare it with known History.  This is unfortunate; the religion of Taliesin einion Vawr, Gerald Gardner (and later Alex Sanders) had solid scholarly as well as  mystical roots. While some of those roots have since become suspect -- there is real intellectual activity, appreciation for the mysteries, and a real philosophical rigor, behind this religion. These were serious people who weren't afraid to visit a library, expose their family history, and who even included some decent poetry in their rituals.  Go to their web page at [...] if you want the real truth behind their religion.<br />*The Word* is written by two Welsh Witches. The title does not lie: it truly is a Quest of &quot;The Word&quot; of Welsh Witchcraft. After reading this, you will know what a Circles is, What Welsh Witchcraft is. You won't be an initiated Witch -- that can only be done by someone who possesses the lineage to do so -- but you will be able to serve the God and Goddess in a Welsh Witch style. You will also be ready to study for initiation and to reap its benefits and fulfill its responsibilities. <br />This book isn't perfect: I disagree with some of their views on gender polarity. Still, it deserves 5 stars merely because it stands so far above its competition. This volume will prove more useful to you than any of the silly fluffy-bunny trash which pollutes so many Newage bookstores today. It's Witchcraft as it was, as it could be, and as it should have been. You will make you appreciate our country within a country after you read this book.  It is Real.  We of Welsh Witchcraft, applaud your efforts.<br />No Neopagan should be without it.	2003-11-03
US	24720704	R2S7C96WKKUPLT	0931760437	892213927	Cauldron: Celtic Mythology and Witchcraft	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Welsh mythology with a difference	If you look at the previous bad reviews, you will see that the people in this &quot;Trash Welsh Witchcraft club&quot; can't spell, do not know their own history and about all they can do is speak a little Welsh.  That's fine because we Welsh have a long history of not doing what some people want us to do.<br />But I was a little hesitant to write this review.  I was afraid these Welsh terroristic reviewers may find out who I am.  There have been rumours that other real Witches have been threatened by them.  They certainly are uneducated aren't they?<br />But, I really wish more Welsh non-pagans and Welsh non-witches would read this book. It has a ton of information, yes, it is very advanced.  There are no spells, so its not for someone who is looking for Witchcraft or paganism as a way to practice witchcraft and be different from their friends, but it is a look at Welsh Witchcraft Mythology. It has history, and ethics and practices and beliefs, something everyone should know. Beginning Welsh Witches should read this book. I have never read a book yet that has absolutly everything - but this is close - and teaches about Welsh Mythology as a way to become spiritual. It is totally obvious the previous reviewers didn't even read the book, much less know what it contains.  They are just silly.<br />One really good book, and the first I ever read, was ABCs of Witchcraft, read the chapter on myths. It gives a ton of great information, in a little bit easier to understand format. But I think everyone should read this book. I agree that the words &quot;Celtic Mythology&quot; threw me off in buying it, only because I didn't want to look like I was trying to be one of the wanna be wiccans who are interested in it because its a book that stands out. But I am extremly glad that I did buy it. My copy will soon be doggeared and stained and dusty and look as well used and read and loved as any ritualistic book should. all I can say is buy it, read it, if you don't understand it thefirst time, read it again. If that still doesn't work, keep it, and read it after practicing longer, and after reading some of the easier to read books. But keep this book. :)	2003-11-03
US	24720704	R3U74MM0H8I4JK	0931760429	281653918	13 Mystical Treasures: The Tools of Welsh Witchcraft	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Witchcraft Tools...Excellent book	If you look at the previous bad reviews, you will see that the people in this &quot;Trash Welsh Witchcraft club&quot; can't spell, do not know their own history and about all they can do is speak a little Welsh.  That's fine because we Welsh have a long history of not doing what some people want us to do.<br />But I was a little hesitant to write this review.  I was afraid these Welsh terroristic reviewers may find out who I am.  There have been rumours that other real Witches have been threatened by them.  They certainly are uneducated aren't they?<br />But, I really wish more Welsh non-pagans and Welsh non-witches would read this book. It has a ton of information, yes, it is very advanced.  There are no spells, so its not for someone who is looking for Witchcraft or paganism as a way to practice witchcraft and be different from their friends, but it is a look at Welsh Witchcraft craft tools. It has history, and ethics and practices and beliefs, something everyone should know. Beginning Welsh Witches should read this book. I have never read a book yet that has absolutly everything - but this is close - and teaches about construction and consecration of Witchcraft tools. It is totally obvious the previous reviewers didn't even read the book, much less know what it contains.  They are just silly.<br />One really good book, and the first I ever read, was ABCs of Witchcraft, read the chapter on Tools. It gives a ton of great information, in a little bit easier to understand format. But I think everyone should read this book. I agree that the words &quot;Mystical treasures&quot; threw me off in buying it, only because I didn't want to look like I was trying to be one of the wanna be wiccans who are interested in it because its a book that stands out. But I am extremly glad that I did buy it. My copy will soon be doggeared and stained and dusty and look as well used and read and loved as any ritualistic book should. all I can say is buy it, read it, if you don't understand it the first time, read it again. If that still doesn't work, keep it, and read it after practicing longer, and after reading some of the easier to read books. But keep this book. :)	2003-11-03
US	24720704	R1K9LL83YBJ338	0931760380	551658052	Mysteries of Witchcraft	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Welsh Mysteries of Spirituality	If you look at the previous bad reviews, you will see that the people in this &quot;Trash Welsh Witchcraft club&quot; can't spell, do not know their own history and about all they can do is speak a little Welsh. That's fine because we Welsh have a long history of not doing what some people want us to do.<br />But I was a little hesitant to write this review. I was afraid these Welsh terroristic reviewers may find out who I am. There have been rumours that other real Witches have been threatened by them. They certainly are uneducated aren't they?<br />But, I really wish more Welsh non-pagans and Welsh non-witches would read this book. It has a ton of information, yes, it is very advanced. There are no spells, so its not for someone who is looking for Witchcraft or paganism as a way to practice witchcraft and be different from their friends, but it is a look about the Mysteries of Welsh Witchcraft. It has history, and ethics and practices and beliefs, something everyone should know. Beginning Welsh Witches should read this book. I have never read a book yet that has absolutly everything - but this is close - and teaches about the Mysteries as a way to become spiritual. It is totally obvious the previous reviewers didn't even read the book, much less know what it contains. They are just silly.<br />One really good book, and the first I ever read, was Raven Gramassis book on Wiccan Mysteries, read the chapter on myths. It gives a ton of great information, in a little bit easier to understand format. But I think everyone should read this book. I agree that the word &quot;Mysteries of Witchcraft&quot; threw me off in buying it, only because I didn't want to look like I was trying to be one of the wanna be wiccans who are interested in it because its a book that stands out. But I am extremly glad that I did buy it. My copy will soon be doggeared and stained and dusty and look as well used and read and loved as any ritualistic book should. all I can say is buy it, read it,if you don't understand it the first time, read it again. If that still doesn't work, keep it, and read it after practicing longer, and after reading some of the easier to read books. But keep this book. :)	2003-11-03
US	24720704	R3DZI1IPS1KEA2	0595258085	223027867	The Word: Welsh Witchcraft, The Grail of Immortality And The Sacred Keys	Books	5	10	12	N	N	After the controversey I had to buy it.	If you look at the previous bad reviews, you will see that the people in this &quot;Trash Welsh Witchcraft club&quot; can't spell, do not know their own history and about all they can do is speak a little Welsh.  That's fine because we Welsh have a long history of not doing what some people want us to do.<br />But I was a little hesitant to write this review.  I am afraid these Welsh terroristic reviewers may find out who I am.  There have been rumours that other real Witches have been threatened by them.  They certainly are uneducated aren't they?<br />But, I really wish more Welsh non-pagans and Welsh non-witches would read this book. It has a ton of information, yes, it is very advanced.  There are few spells, so its not for someone who is looking for Witchcraft or paganism as a way to practice magick and be different from their friends, but a look at true religion. It has history, and ethics and practices and beliefs, something everyone should know. Beginning Welsh Witches should read this book. I have never read a book yet that has absolutly everything. <br />One really good book, and the first I ever read, is the ABC's of Witchcraft. It also gives a ton of great information, in a little bit easier to understand format. But I think everyone should read this book. I agree that the word &quot;Word&quot; threw me off in buying it, only because I didn't want to look like I was trying to be one of the wanna be wiccans who are interested in it because its a book that stands out, Quest. But I am extremly glad that I did buy it. My copy will soon be doggeared and stained and dusty and look as well used and read and loved as any ritualistic book should. all I can say is buy it, read it, if you don't understand it the first time, read it again. If that still doesn't work, keep it, and read it after practicing longer, and after reading some of the easier to read books. But keep this book.  It is the crown jewel:)	2003-11-03
US	24720704	R34GBPJD9INPNO	0931760283	416197718	The Way: The Discovery of the Grail of Immortality	Books	5	9	10	N	N	A book with a Welsh Heart	If you look at the previous bad reviews, you will see that the people in this &quot;Trash Welsh Witchcraft club&quot; can't spell, do not know their own history and about all they can do is speak a little Welsh.  That's fine because we Welsh have a long history of not doing what some people don't want us to do.<br />But I was a little hesitant to write this review.  I am afraid these Welsh terroristic reviewers may find out who I am.  There have been rumours that other real Witches have been threatened by them.  They certainly are uneducated aren't they?<br />But, I really wish more Welsh non-pagans and Welsh non-witches would read this book. It has a ton of information, yes, it is very advanced.  There are few spells, so its not for someone who is looking for Witchcraft or paganism as a way to practice magick and be different from their friends, but a look at true religion. It has history, and ethics and practices and beliefs, something everyone should know. Beginning Welsh Witches should read this book. I have never read a book yet that has absolutly everything. <br />One really good book, and the first I ever read, is the ABC's of Witchcraft. It also gives a ton of great information, in a little bit easier to understand format. But I think everyone should read this book. I agree that the word &quot;Way&quot; threw me off in buying it, only because I didn't want to look like I was trying to be one of the wanna be wiccans who are interested in it because its a book that stands out - Way. But I am extremly glad that I did buy it. My copy is doggeared and stained and dusty and looks as well used and read and loved as any ritualistic book should. all I can say is buy it, read it, if you don't understand it the first time, read it again. If that still doesn't work, keep it, and read it after practicing longer, and after reading some of the easier to read books. But keep this book.  It is the crown jewel:)	2003-11-03
US	24720704	R1TJFGT6PQWYOF	059523125X	778757993	The Way: A Discovery of the Grail of Immortality Welsh Witchcraft and the Old Religion	Books	5	12	12	N	N	We shall fight them on the Beaches.....	I am a little hesitant to write this review.  I am afraid these terroristic reviewers may find out who I am.  There have been rumours that other real Witches have been threatened by them.<br />But, I really wish more Welsh non-pagans and Welsh non-witches would read this book. It has a ton of information, yes, it is a little advanced, the first time I had read it though was after 8 years of practicing. There are no spells in there, so its not for someone who is looking for Witchcraft or paganism as a way to practice magick and be different from their friends, but a look at true religion. It has history, and ethics and practices and beliefs, something everyone should know. Beginning Welsh Witches should read this book. I have never read a book yet that has absolutly everything. <br />One really good book, and the first I ever read, is the ABC's of Witchcraft. It also gives a ton of great information, in a little bit easier to understand format. But I think everyone should read this book. I agree that the word Quest threw me off in buying it, only because I didn't want to look like I was trying to be one of the wanna be wiccans who are interested in it because its a book with the word that stands out, Way. But I am extremly glad that I did buy it. My copy is doggeared and stained and dusty and looks as well used and read and loved as any ritualistic book should. all I can say is buy it, read it, if you don't understand it the first time, read it again. If that still doesn't work, keep it, and read it after practicing longer, and after reading some of the easier to read books. But keep this book. :)	2003-11-03
US	24720704	R10DLRDBI1E2RY	0931760240	587899334	Celtic Divination: Witchcraft, Dowsing and Ley Lines	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Dowsing for Spirituality	If you look at the previous bad reviews, you will see that the people in this &quot;Trash Welsh Witchcraft club&quot; can't spell, do not know their own history and about all they can do is speak a little Welsh.  That's fine because we Welsh have a long history of not doing what some people want us to do.<br />But I was a little hesitant to write this review.  I am afraid these Welsh terroristic reviewers may find out who I am.  There have been rumours that other real Witches have been threatened by them.  They certainly are uneducated aren't they?<br />But, I really wish more Welsh non-pagans and Welsh non-witches would read this book. It has a ton of information, yes, it is very advanced.  There are no spells, so its not for someone who is looking for Witchcraft or paganism as a way to practice Dowsing or divination and be different from their friends, but it is a look at religious dowsing. It has history, and ethics and practices and beliefs, something everyone should know. Beginning Welsh Witches should read this book. I have never read a book yet that has absolutly everything - but this is close - and teaches true Divination. It is totally obvious the previous reviewers didn't even read the book, much less know what it contains.  They are just silly.<br />One really good book, and the first I ever read, was Dowsing Explained by the American Dowsing Association. It gives a ton of great Dowsing information, in a little bit easier to understand format. But I think everyone should read this book. I agree that the word &quot;Celtic&quot; threw me off in buying it, only because I didn't want to look like I was trying to be one of the wanna be wiccans who are interested in it because its a book that stands out. But I am extremly glad that I did buy it. My copy will soon be doggeared and stained and dusty and look as well used and read and loved as any ritualistic book should. all I can say is buy it, read it, if you don't understand it the first time, read it again. If that still doesn't work, keep it, and read it after practicing longer, and after reading some of the easier to read books. But keep this book.  It is the crown jewel of Welsh Dowsing and Divination:)	2003-11-03
US	24720704	R287WVW659AARK	0931760011	34344444	The Quest: A Search for the Grail of Immortality	Books	5	13	13	N	N	You will appreciate the Mystical Wales afterwards	I am a little hesitant to write this review.  I am afraid these terroristic reviewers may find out who I am.  There have been rumours that other real Witches have been threatened by them.<br />But, I wish more Welsh non-pagans and Welsh non-witches would read this book. It has a ton of information, yes, it is a little advanced, the first time I had read it though was after 8 years of practicing. There are no spells in there, so its not for someone who is looking for Witchcraft or paganism as a way to practice magick and be different from their friends, but a look at true religion. It has history, and ethics and practices and beliefs, something everyone should know. Beginning Welsh Witches should read this book. I have never read a book yet that has absolutly everything. <br />One really good book, and the first I ever read, is the ABC's of Witchcraft. It also gives a ton of great information, in a little bit easier to understand format. But I think everyone should read this book. I agree that the word Quest threw me off in buying it, only because I didn't want to look like I was trying to be one of the wanna be wiccans who are interested in it because its a book with the word that stands out, Quest. But I am extremly glad that I did buy it. My copy is doggeared and stained and dusty and looks as well used and read and loved as any ritualistic book should. all I can say is buy it, read it, if you don't understand it the first time, read it again. If that still doesn't work, keep it, and read it after practicing longer, and after reading some of the easier to read books. But keep this book. :)	2003-11-03
US	24720704	R3K2HO7E3IZK9V	059523125X	778757993	The Way: A Discovery of the Grail of Immortality Welsh Witchcraft and the Old Religion	Books	5	11	11	N	N	I wish I had been strong enough to oppose the Welsh Critics	Thank you Taliesin for the many reviews your books are getting. thank you Rhuddlwm Gawr for your courage to continue. Thank you Merriddin for your support of our religion in your writings.<BR> <BR>I met Taliesin einion Vawr years ago while he was still vibrant and outrageous. But, his books were not selling, so no one knew anything about him. Now thanks to the reviews, Taliesin and Welsh Witchcraft are getting the recognition they deserve. Controversy always sells books. Remember, even a bad review is a good review. The alternative is no review at all.<br />The writings of Taliesin eionion Vawr would have been relegated to the library of obscure history if Rhuddlwm Gawr had not had the courage to oppose the Welsh Christians, Welsh Historians, and Welsh politically correct Neo-Pagans, spending his own money to have Taliesins writings reprinted. I just wish these same nasty critics had been around twenty-five years ago when these volumes were first published. He would be better known today.<br />In the United States, Wicca and Witchcraft have by and large degenerated into silliness, choked on spells and drugs. Here in Wales, it is difficult to even mention the fact that Witchcraft exists because of the foolish people who try to compare it with known History. This is unfortunate; the religion of Taliesin einion Vawr, Gerald Gardner (and later Alex Sanders) had solid scholarly as well as mystical roots. While some of those roots have since become suspect -- there is real intellectual activity, appreciation for the mysteries, and a real philosophical rigor, behind this religion. These were serious people who weren't afraid to visit a library, expose their family history, and who even included some decent poetry in their rituals. Go to their web page at [...] if you want the real truth behind their religion.<br />*The Way* is written by two Welsh Witches. The title does not lie: it truly is a Quest of &quot;The Way&quot; of Welsh Witchcraft. After reading this, you will know what a Circle is, What Welsh Witchcraft is. You won't be an initiated Witch -- that can only be done by someone who possesses the lineage to do so -- but you will be able to serve the God and Goddess in a Welsh Witch style. You will also be ready to study for initiation and to reap its benefits and fulfill its responsibilities. <br />This book isn't perfect: I disagree with some of their views on gender polarity. Still, it deserves 5 stars merely because it stands so far above its competition. This volume will prove more useful to you than any of the silly fluffy-bunny trash which pollutes so many Newage bookstores today. It's Witchcraft as it was, as it could be, and as it should have been. You will make you appreciate our country within a country after you read this book. It is Real. We of Welsh Witchcraft, applaud your efforts.<br />No Neopagan should be without it.	2003-11-03
