US	24860454	R1JA2DVY1A9WCY	0060559527	869144896	Blue Twilight: A Rachel Porter Mystery (Rachel Porter Mysteries)	Books	2	1	1	N	N	Speart's Blue Period	I guess every writer has to have a dud book, and this one is Speart's.  I have enjoyed her Rachel Porter, US Fish and Wildlife agent series since its inception for its compelling mysteries and wry humor, but this one fell far short of my expectations.  While everyone enjoys the back story of the continuing lives of the characters in a series, it is generally enjoyed as a backdrop, not the driving force of the book.  Basically, this book didn't have much of a story, jumping from one idea to another, then sloppily knotting them all together at the end.<br /><br />The story begins with Rachel coming to from a terrifying daydream in the middle of a self-defense class in her new home city of San Francisco.  She moved there with FBI agent boyfriend, Jake Santou, and gay transvestite friend, Terri Tune.  They're renting apartments from an old Chinese woman, Mae Rose Chang, who makes an attempt to teach Rachel to cook before simply disappearing from the story altogether.  Rachel starts out chasing down a butterfly poacher and checking out his lair before moving on to investigate a complaint of a missing biologist in Mendocino, which is supposedly the only known habitat of the rare Lotis blue butterfly.  Rachel senses there might be a connection between the missing biologist and the butterfly dealer she busted, so she makes a trip to Mendocino.<br /><br />She puts all that on the back burner when another gay friend, Eric, shows up, in search of his runaway daughter, Lily.  There's a bunch of stuff thrown in about San Francisco's underground vampire community that goes nowhere, and enough pro-alternative lifestyle remarks so as to be a blantant advertisement.  There's no doubt about which direction the author's politics lean, which could be a turnoff for any reader who disagrees with them.  When the search for Lily turns up a tattoo artist with a connection to the Lotis blue butterfly, it's a bit of a stretch, but some kind of thread was needed to tie all these loose ends together.<br /><br />Rachel always seems to be one step away from finding Lily, and always manages to stumble onto evidence about the big, evil butterfly dealer she's after at the same time.  She apparently enjoys road trips, whimsically zipping between San Francisco and Mendocino on a daily basis (6 hours round trip with sidelines about the Redwood Forest) until the conclusion.  Two other things bothered me.  Rachel drives an Explorer, yet needed a tow truck to pull her out of the forest when she went off the road, and then she just drove off and kept driving for days without doing any repairs to the vehicle.  Also, Rachel never does anything, she BEGINS TO do everything.  While I'm complaining, the first murder didn't even occur until almost page 200, and then bodies piled up like crazy in the last chapter.  Additionally, I didn't laugh or even smile at anything in this story, whereas Rachel Porter mysteries are usually full of chuckles.<br /><br />I highly recommend Jessica Speart as an author, but I can only recommend this book to fans of the series who don't want to miss a piece of Rachel's story.  This book was a giant disappointment to me, and I fervently hope it is merely indicative of a temporary slump, and not a major downturn for this otherwise very enjoyable series.together. <br /> <br />Rachel always seems to be one step away from finding Lily, and always manages to stumble onto evidence about the big, evil butterfly dealer she's after at the same time.  She apparently enjoys road trips, whimsically zipping between San Francisco and Mendocino on a daily basis (6 hours round trip with sidelines about the Redwood Forest) until the conclusion.  Two other things bothered me.  Rachel drives an Explorer, yet needed a tow truck to pull her out of the forest when she went off the road, and then she just drove off and kept driving for days without doing any repairs to the vehicle.  Also, Rachel never does anything, she BEGINS TO do everything.  While I'm complaining, the first murder didn't even occur until almost page 200, and then bodies piled up like crazy in the last chapter.  Additionally, I didn't laugh or even smile at anything in this story, whereas Rachel Porter mysteries are usually full of chuckles. <br /> <br />I highly recommend Jessica Speart as an author, but I can only recommend this book to fans of the series who don't want to miss a piece of Rachel's story.  This book was a giant disappointment to me, and I fervently hope it is merely indicative of a temporary slump, and not a major downturn for this otherwise very enjoyable series. <br />	2005-10-13
US	24860454	R37W0U5UZBNM21	0821767747	693597317	Too Good To Be True	Books	2	0	2	N	N	Not Too Good	I think I finally put my finger on the difference between chick lit and romance novels.  Romance novels are about the hearts and lives of two people who fall in love.  Chick lit is just kind of silly, and I don't think the people who produce it like women very much.  Chick lit heroines always seem to be perceived by the hero as foolish and bumbling, despite their independence, as if their survival was merely a happy accident until the wise hero came along to take over.<br /><br />I didn't dislike Annie Kendall, an heir-for-hire heroine in this mystery farce, but I didn't quite warm to her, either, because the author didn't give a clear picture of who she really was, relying instead on the superficial observations of the characters to tell us.  Likewise, the hero, Grady Sullivan, was a cardboard cutout of the Modern Average Single Guy in Women's Fiction.  No further description necessary.  The rest of the quirky characters were all stereotypes for a mansion mystery taken from central casting.  We have Archie Peevers, the mean, wacky old man who made his billion in toilet paper and hasn't left his rooms in 10 years.  Archie's eldest, weakling son, AW, has a severe, super-thin, pearl-wearing dragon of a wife, Mitzi.  Muriel, the daughter, is a homely spinster with no fashion sense.  Junior, the horny playboy son, rounds out the family with his painfully stupid bimbo, Daisy.  Dickens looks and behaves as a cadaverous, dry-witted butler should.  Dr. Sandborn, Archie's personal physician, has a drug addiction and a drinking problem.  Maisie plays the lazy, drawling, yet somehow indispensable assistant oozing off-the-wall sex appeal.<br /><br />The plot was loosely woven together on the premise that Archie Peevers believed one of his children wanted him dead, so he hired Grady Sullivan to protect him.  As a red herring, Archie hired Annie to pose as his long-lost granddaughter, and Grady winds up spending the bulk of his time protecting Annie, most of it naked and between sheets.  Grady doesn't really believe anyone is out to kill Archie until he's shot at with a crossbow, and then bad things happen to Annie, so he starts looking for suspects.<br /><br />Grady and Annie, with help from Maisie, who apparently can't open her mouth without uttering the word \\"honey,\\" piece the puzzle together while exchanging pithy one-liners meant to be funny, and falling in love.  I just couldn't manage to get into any of it, and as a result, I wasn't having very much fun.  In the end, everything falls neatly into place, despite a dragged out, disjointed, badly-handled conclusion that had lost meaning by the time we finally got there.  My interest in any of the goings-on at Peevers Manor had waned long ago.<br /><br />This book wasn't horrible.  It was just forgettable, and lacked that indefinable ingredient that makes a good book grab me and make me want to go along for the ride.  Based on this first Kasey Michaels experience, I don't believe I'll subject myself to another.een sheets.  Grady doesn't really believe anyone is out to kill Archie until he's shot at with a crossbow, and then bad things happen to Annie, so he starts looking for suspects. <br /> <br />Grady and Annie, with help from Maisie, who apparently can't open her mouth without uttering the word \\"honey,\\" piece the puzzle together while exchanging pithy one-liners meant to be funny, and falling in love.  I just couldn't manage to get into any of it, and as a result, I wasn't having very much fun.  In the end, everything falls neatly into place, despite a dragged out, disjointed, badly-handled conclusion that had lost meaning by the time we finally got there.  My interest in any of the goings-on at Peevers Manor had waned long ago. <br /> <br />This book wasn't horrible.  It was just forgettable, and lacked that indefinable ingredient that makes a good book grab me and make me want to go along for the ride.  Based on this first Kasey Michaels experience, I don't believe I'll subject myself to another. <br />	2005-10-05
US	24860454	R1IVRHBFSBRRVL	1596540117	370345609	The Man of Bronze and The Land of Terror (Doc Savage)	Books	4	11	11	N	Y	Doc Rocks!!!	I can't get enough adventure fiction and I've found precious little of my favorite variety; high adrenaline action that doesn't get too technical or political.  After having devoured all of Cussler and his ilk, my mind dredged up a memory of a movie and a couple paperbacks left lying around the house when I was a kid, so I put Doc Savage in the search engine.  I found a treasure trove:  182 volumes of high-octane pulp fiction await!  [...] has already published the first half in 2-book volumes, so I bought one to test the waters.<br /><br />This is only the beginning of a beautiful relationship.  Doc Savage is Dr. Clark Savage Junior.  He's gorgeous, brainy, strong, and is too busy working out solutions to vexing problems and using his amazing strength to save humanity to give women a thought.  Begun publishing in 1933, political correctness is nonexistent, yet Doc Savage and his crew possess a surprising sensitivity to the environment and native culture.  Brainiac Doc has invented or improved upon a number of gadgets that in 1933 must have tested the limits of one's imagination.  Today, they're the norm.<br /><br />\\"The Man of Bronze\\" is the first Doc Savage adventure.  He has just returned to his 86th floor home in New York after several weeks spent exercising his body and mind in his Arctic Fortress of Solitude, which he does from time to time to hone his already amazing skills, to find that his father is dead, killed by a strange malady.  Doc gathers his five sidekicks and dodges several attempts on his life to travel to Central America to claim his inheritance, a tract of remote jungle.  Doc's inheritance is tied up in a fiendish plot to overthrow the government of fictitious Hidalgo and steal riches from a tribe of ancient Mayans, and Doc has to defeat the bad guys and save the day.<br /><br />In \\"The Land of Terror,\\" a friend of Doc's disappears almost before his eyes, and the only trace left of him is a forearm and a vile cloud of smoke.  Doc chases his friend's murderer, and finds that a fiendish mastermind is behind the murder-by-Smoke-of-Eternity, a compound that dissolves everything it touches.  Doc and company follow the villain, Kar, to a strange island in the far South Pacific, where dinosaurs roam wild.  Their plane crashes courtesy of a pterodactyl, and upon parachuting to the ground, they must dodge T-rexes and other dangerous dinosaur predators, all the while hunting their quarry, Kar.  In the end, Doc's amazing brains, brawn, and skill save the day and defeat the villain, who meets a gruesome end.<br /><br />Seekers of realism should look elsewhere.  This is pure adventure fiction, as Doc uses his amazing abilities to pull off impossible stunts and outthink his enemies at every turn.  Every page underscores what an unusual specimen Doc Savage is, but he is a man devoid of arrogance, so I was smilingly rooting him on before long.  His sidekicks are an eclectic, bantering lot it might take a couple books to become familiar with, there being five and all, but they, too, are a likeable bunch.  Overall, the books are a very satisfying experience, and I can't wait to read more!that a fiendish mastermind is behind the murder-by-Smoke-of-Eternity, a compound that dissolves everything it touches.  Doc and company follow the villain, Kar, to a strange island in the far South Pacific, where dinosaurs roam wild.  Their plane crashes courtesy of a pterodactyl, and upon parachuting to the ground, they must dodge T-rexes and other dangerous dinosaur predators, all the while hunting their quarry, Kar.  In the end, Doc's amazing brains, brawn, and skill save the day and defeat the villain, who meets a gruesome end.    Seekers of realism should look elsewhere.  This is pure adventure fiction, as Doc uses his amazing abilities to pull off impossible stunts and outthink his enemies at every turn.  Every page underscores what an unusual specimen Doc Savage is, but he is a man devoid of arrogance, so I was smilingly rooting him on before long.  His sidekicks are an eclectic, bantering lot it might take a couple books to become familiar with, there being five and all, but they, too, are a likeable bunch.  Overall, the books are a very satisfying experience, and I can't wait to read more!	2005-09-29
US	24860454	R1ARER81ZSL6S7	0060527269	734794810	Sapphire Sea, The	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	Gripping Good Read	Wealthy Lonny Cushman has run far from home to get away from his father, his soon-to-be ex-wife, and his failure with his daughter.  Living in the town of Diego-Suarez on Madagascar, Lonny spends his days glad-handing the locals and bribing officials while he not-quite-legally buys and sells sapphires.  Things come to a head rather quickly when Lonny stumbles across a peasant with the sapphire of a lifetime and buys it for $20,000.  He barely has time to return to his home in Diego-Suarez before things start to happen.  The American embassy wants him off Madagascar for political reasons, and when rumors of the amazing stone he purchased start to circulate, his life is in danger.  With a murder pinned on him, Lonny goes on the run with a French expatriate through the bush, fraught with many dangers of its own.  Suddenly, Lonny's whole life has come down to one thing:  getting off Madagascar alive...with the sapphire.<br /><br />It's hard to put a label on this book.  Suspense doesn't suit it, and while there is plenty happening, the third-world pace at which things unfold precludes it from the action genre.  Considerable time is spent on Lonny's introspection, without it becoming cloying.  There is little time to dwell on an epiphany when one is on the run.  In addition to the well-woven story, the book gives an excellent picture of life in Madagascar and other far-flung places in the world where the customs and rules are very different from what we know.  Succeeding from many angles, this book wins high marks.	2005-09-26
US	24860454	R1YJU4CGBKOA6C	0425183750	447087218	Blood Lure (Anna Pigeon)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Worth Being Lured In	Anna Pigeon heads to the high country of Glacier National Park to assist on a grizzly bear DNA project.  Traveling through the backcountry with bear expert Joan Rand and assistant Rory Van Slyke, Anna's campsite is ransacked by a crazed grizzly.  When the dust settles, Rory turns up missing, and is found 36 hours later, vague as to his whereabouts during his disappearance.  The rangers also find the body of a woman with her neck snapped and half her face cut off.  That the dead woman happens to be Rory Van Slyke's unlikable stepmother opens an interesting investigation.  Anna traipses through the high country amassing a mishmash of clues that confuse her more than anything, and when even nature doesn't seem to be behaving naturally, Anna is at odds with the world.<br /><br />Nevada Barr's love of the mountains and the west come shining through in her descriptions of smells and scenery.  The mystery was well-woven, as well.  While some clues were obvious, figuring out how they all fit together was the challenge.  Filled, as usual, with Anna's musings, insights, and unique relationship with the world around her, this book is another fine piece of the Anna Pigeon tapestry.	2005-09-26
US	24860454	R1CKLNMGC0HWTJ	0399152717	193896016	Polar Shift (NUMA Files)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Something old, something new...	The latest in the Kurt Austin series gives us a little of what we've grown accustomed to and a few new things, as well.  It begins near the end of World War II, when an Austrian scientist, Dr. Kovacs, who has been forced to work for the Nazis, escapes his captors with the aid of a mysterious man named Karl Schroeder.<br /><br />Kurt Austin, Joe Zavala, and Paul and Gamay Trout are called to action when rogue waves, giant whirlpools, and crazy Orcas all seem to have their roots in human interference with nature.  They find themselves on the trail of a dangerous group of well-funded anarchists, and Kurt must go to the rescue of lovely Dr. Karla Janos, the illustrious Dr. Kovacs's granddaughter who came into the crosshairs of the anarchists because they believe she knows something about the scientific formulas her grandfather created for the Nazis.  The anarchists are poised to create a polar shift, which they believe will toss the world into a communications nightmare.  The NUMA Special Assignments Team, however, believes it will cause the end of the world, and it's up to Kurt and his crew to save the day.<br /><br />This book took a slight departure from others in the series by focusing a great deal on the villains, who were separated into three different factions.  But, while showing us how truly cold and evil the villains were, it gave less attention to the Trouts, who are some of my favorite characters.  Their role in this book was disappointingly small, with the attention that might have gone to their exploits instead focusing on Karl Schroeder and the villains.  Kurt's exploits were as dashing as ever, complete with a Dirk Pitt-style car chase in one of Pitt's classic cars.  While the story was compelling and fun to read, it seemed to lack the gripping excitement of most Cussler novels.  Instead, it starred a richer cast of characters well woven into the back story.  While not the best of the Kurt Austin series, it's still a very good book.	2005-09-13
US	24860454	RLB8X70R2MP1S	0425178951	788292440	Deep South (An Anna Pigeon Novel)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Good Read	Our favorite federal park ranger, Anna Pigeon, heads deep into Mississippi for her new job as head ranger of the Natchez Trace.  Punchy from lack of sleep, it doesn't take Anna long to find trouble in the form of a drunken teenage girl.  She takes the girl in and returns her to her parents, thinking all is quiet until another teen girl turns up missing, and then dead.  16-year-old Danielle Posey is found in the woods with her head bashed in, wearing a KKK-style hood.  Anna, along with the other park rangers and the local sheriff, investigates, finding a web of intrigue laced with sexism and racism.  Anna pieces prom night clues together while musing introspectively about everything around her.  When she finally pieces it all together, she finds herself in harm's way and winds up fighting for her life.<br /><br />Like the other Anna Pigeon mysteries, this one sort of ambles along through Anna's mind, all the while drawing us into a complex cast of characters, compelling intrigue, and a touch of danger.  This is a nice piece of the ongoing tale of Ranger Anna Pigeon as her life takes a new turn, but would serve just as well standing alone.  As always, Nevada Barr is recommended reading.	2005-09-07
US	24860454	RB2UUUDP8P10N	0345426274	955062554	The Analyst	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Slow Starter But Worth It	This is the story of the destruction of Dr. Frederick Starks, psychoanalyst to the rich and neurotic.  On the eve of his annual vacation, Dr. Starks receives a strange letter from an unknown man calling himself Rumplestiltskin.  The letter orders him to find Rumplestiltskin's real identity within 15 days or one of his relatives will have their life destroyed.  If he fails, Dr. Starks can spare his relatives by taking his own life.  A sick and frightening game of cat and mouse begins, with the unwitting Dr. Starks as a bumbling mouse while Rumplestiltskin and his cohorts systematically tear apart his life.<br /><br />The bulk of the story is quite solitary as Dr. Starks examines his memories, trying to find the thread that ties him to Rumplestiltskin.  He's rather annoyingly passive and predictable, going through every step his tormentors design for him, never once questioning the sincerity of their \\"help.\\"  He finally comes through in the eleventh hour, though, and begins an in-depth search for the identity of Rumplestiltskin and his reasons for targeting Dr. Starks.<br /><br />Where the first half of this novel sort of plodded along with Dr. Starks' less than innovative or aggressive reaction to the people who tear his life asunder, just past the halfway point, he develops a spine and finally puts his psychoanalytical brain to good use.  It took awhile laying the groundwork for the real suspense, but in retrospect, it was all necessary and it pays off big.  This is a story of introspection, fear, and revenge, carefully crafted and methodically delivered.  I recommend it highly for suspense lovers with a bit of patience.	2005-09-01
US	24860454	R36LAZBX0N420O	0140247084	872880439	Saratoga Backtalk: A Charlie Bradshaw Mystery	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Wisecracking Mystery	We see the world through the eyes of Vic Plotz, a fifty-something, wisecracking P.I. with an appreciation for older women.  Vic and his boss Charlie get caught up in the intrigue of a series of murders at Battlefield Farms near Saratoga.  Vic tracks down clues and plots his own intrigues against a Harley-riding tenant and his granddaughter who's threatening to ruin his life with a visit.  The list of suspects gets shorter and shorter, as they get killed off one by one, and Charlie and Vic wrap it up just in time to save the last victim.  Though the mystery wasn't top drawer, the book was written in an engaging, amusing style.  Vic's observations and machinations make the whole thing worthwhile as they easily upstage the main story.  I'd pick up another Dobyns novel if I found one.	2005-08-18
US	24860454	R1VI0GLGBDWL0X	0743456300	416110244	A Loving Scoundrel: A Malory Novel (Malory-Anderson Family)	Books	3	13	16	N	N	Another Malory Bites the Dust	Johanna Lindsey takes us back to Regency England in another romantic farce starring the Malory clan.  The story begins when London's most handsome and eligible bachelor, Jeremy Malory, hires himself a thief to help a friend recover some jewelry he was cheated out of.  The thief Jeremy forcibly hires is 20-year-old Danny, who is really a woman masquerading as a man.  When she was 5, Danny's home was broken into, and everyone in it but her and the nurse she escaped with was murdered.  Danny has no memories of anything before she was rescued by a young prostitute in an alley after her nurse died, and has been masquerading as a man to avoid a fate of prostitution for herself.  Jeremy, a seducer of women, notices right off that she's no man, and it's simply in his nature to try to talk her into bed.  Danny escapes his clutches, but winds up coming to him for a job when she gets kicked out of the house where she's been living.  Jeremy sees it as his opportunity to seduce her, and is quite perplexed when she refuses to become his mistress, preferring to work as a maid instead.<br /><br />Jeremy has vowed to never get married, and finds himself in a fix when a young debutante schemes to get him to the altar.  Danny saves the day by dressing up and posing as his fianc&eacute;e, and soon after, she falls into bed with Jeremy, though she still refuses to become his mistress.  Her one appearance at a ball with Jeremy has put her in danger, though, because she looks so much like her mother that the man responsible for her family's murders takes note and decides to have her done in for good.  Jeremy saves her, of course, and falls in love with her, too, since she's so much different than any woman he has ever known.  Danny also finds out who she really is in the end, too, and everyone lives happily ever after.<br /><br />Though it's been awhile since I last read a Lindsey novel, I still wouldn't say this was one of her best.  It wasn't awful, but it was pretty light reading.  The idiosyncratic speech of the characters in the book is laid on a little thick, probably because it's the only thing besides the occasional mention of a coach ride to give this novel a sense of going back in time.  Nobody seems to have an inner monologue, choosing instead to discuss their innermost feelings with whoever happens to be present at the time.  While we have plenty of time with Danny's thoughts and feelings, Jeremy is a one-dimensional character whose sole purpose in the book is to marry Danny at the end.  It seemed like Lindsey was far too busy making sure every Malory in existence put in some kind of appearance than developing the characters this book was supposed to be about and, as a result, it lacked depth.  It's been years since I read the other Malory books, but I seem to remember them having more intricate plots, and being a little less...well...silly.<br /><br />If you're looking for deep, moving, classical literature, keep looking.  If, however, you enjoy a light romantic farce heavy on colloquialisms, this could be the book for you.idiosyncratic speech of the characters in the book is laid on a little thick, probably because it's the only thing besides the occasional mention of a coach ride to give this novel a sense of going back in time.  Nobody seems to have an inner monologue, choosing instead to discuss their innermost feelings with whoever happens to be present at the time.  While we have plenty of time with Danny's thoughts and feelings, Jeremy is a one-dimensional character whose sole purpose in the book is to marry Danny at the end.  It seemed like Lindsey was far too busy making sure every Malory in existence put in some kind of appearance than developing the characters this book was supposed to be about and, as a result, it lacked depth.  It's been years since I read the other Malory books, but I seem to remember them having more intricate plots, and being a little less...well...silly. <br /> <br />If you're looking for deep, moving, classical literature, keep looking.  If, however, you enjoy a light romantic farce heavy on colloquialisms, this could be the book for you.   <br />	2005-08-18
US	24860454	R1BSBBPM05IDXS	0380805995	973201237	Kiss of the Bees: A Novel of Suspense	Books	3	6	6	N	N	A Long and Winding Road	JA Jance attempts to steep us deeper in her beloved Southwest, this time including some Tohono O'otham culture.  She plays fast and loose with the timeline to give us bits and pieces of the lives of the characters until we reach the climax.  But, instead of being intriguing, this is confusing.  All the characters know details we don't until by the time we've already figured them out, they're tardily revealed.<br /><br />Diana Ladd Walker and Brandon Walker have a very modern family.  Both divorced with children of previous marriages, one adopted daughter, and one tossed-in stepson, plus assorted close friends, make this group diverse.  Brandon has two sons, Quentin and Tommy, though Tommy is missing and presumed dead.  Brandon's ex-wife remarried and had another child, Brian Fellows, who spent time with the Walkers while growing up.  Diana's son from her first or second marriage is Davy Ladd.  Then Diana and Brandon adopted a Tohono O'otham girl, Lani.  Lani and Davy were both raised by an old Indian woman, Rita Antone.  Rita and the tribal medicine man, Fat Crack, or Gabe Ortiz, had been close to Looks At Nothing, a blind medicine man, now dead.<br /><br />Every chapter begins with a piece of an Indian legend, poorly told.  The legend ties in at the end, but I hadn't really been paying attention.  But, it's supposed to tie in Indian medicine with the events in the story.<br /><br />Twenty years back, Diana Walker was attacked and raped by Andrew Carlisle.  He would have killed her, but she flung a pan of hot bacon grease in his face and her dog attacked.  Andrew Carlisle, now blind, went to prison.  He was joined a few years later by Mitch Johnson, a trigger-happy immigrant hater who gets sent up by then-Sheriff Brandon Walker.  Andrew and Mitch form an unholy alliance of hate against the Walkers.  Andrew dies in prison, but he and Mitch formulated a plan for Mitch to carry out on his release.  The two also met Quentin Walker, Brandon's eldest, loser son, in prison, and use him as a pawn.<br />Mitch kidnaps Lani and prepares to put her through an Andrew Carlisle-type murder on tape and blame Quentin, thereby utterly destroying Brandon and Diana Walker.  Davy arrives from Chicago just in time to help Lani.  Fat Crack uses divining crystals and goes to the scene, leading the others there.  In the end, Lani uses her Indian teachings to defeat the enemy.<br /><br />The climax was gripping, but there was a long, slow, roundabout route to get there.  There were too many characters and the back story was too sparsely delivered, making me feel I should have read the prequel first.  Though it wasn't bad, it could have been better.Mitch kidnaps Lani and prepares to put her through an Andrew Carlisle-type murder on tape and blame Quentin, thereby utterly destroying Brandon and Diana Walker.  Davy arrives from Chicago just in time to help Lani.  Fat Crack uses divining crystals and goes to the scene, leading the others there.  In the end, Lani uses her Indian teachings to defeat the enemy.    The climax was gripping, but there was a long, slow, roundabout route to get there.  There were too many characters and the back story was too sparsely delivered, making me feel I should have read the prequel first.  Though it wasn't bad, it could have been better.	2005-08-18
US	24860454	R33Q25KZ6EIIXM	0373285159	960736892	Two Of A Kind: Impulse\The Best Mistake (Mira Hardbacks)	Books	3	67	68	N	N	Nice Blend of Old and New	Comprised of two novellas, \\"Impulse\\" and \\"The Best Mistake,\\" this book serves as a showcase of Nora Roberts' talent from the early years to later.  \\"Impulse\\" stars a likeable young heroine, Rebecca Malone, who impulsively quits her job, sells everything she owns, and goes on vacation til the money runs out.  We catch up with her on Corfu, where she meets wealthy magnate Stephen Nicodemus.  Stephen romances her, charmed by her enthusiasm for new things, while she frets over giving him the wrong impression of herself, even though she told him no lies.  Typical of 80's romances, the heroine quietly longs for a man she thinks is out of her league while he's spellbound by her freshness.  It was the 80's when first released, so I guess I can't complain.<br /><br />It is obvious Nora had really blossomed as a writer, and started making a few of her own rules, by the time she wrote \\"The Best Mistake.\\"  It's the story of beautiful Zoe Fleming, working two dead-end jobs to support her son Keenan.  To help make ends meet, Zoe rents out her upstairs apartment to Cooper McKinnon, a sportswriter.  Coop quickly gets sucked into Zoe and Keenan's lives and feels his bachelorhood slipping through his fingers, and freaks out.  Things really get bad when Zoe shrugs him off for being a jerk, and he comes to his senses.  This was a cute, well-written modern family romance with a heart, showcasing Nora's talents in a quick read.<br /><br />The entire book has merit, simply for showing the progressing talent of a major writer, and it was also a nice, quick read for those times a person wants to enjoy a good story, but doesn't have a lot of time.	2005-08-18
US	24860454	RQ7G5E0NR3E8G	0786889543	871273294	The Job	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Chilling Yuppie Tale	Ned Allen is a salesman barely living within his means in New York City.  From a small town in Maine, he strives to shed his background and be a big player in the big city.  He is the northeast sales manager for a computer magazine.  His wife Lizzie is in public relations, and the two of them are busy living a life of crushing work schedules and dinner and drinks in all the right places.  Always on the edge, Ned's life takes a precarious turn when the magazine he works for is sold to a German company.  Almost simultaneously, Ned's job is on the line when Ivan, one of the salesmen working under him, loses a 6-page spread only a couple of days before the print deadline.  The only way Ned can save the day is by making a veiled threat to Ted Peterson, the client who tried to pull his ad.  Immediately following this success, Ned meets with his new German boss, who tells him that he wants to fire Ned's boss and put Ned in his place.  Ned is sworn to secrecy, and though he feels bad for the fate of his boss, he is looking forward to his new salary and position.  With all of this in place, Ned takes off for a week's vacation in the Bahamas with Lizzie, and starts spending more than ever.<br /><br />When Ned returns to work on January 2, the office is full of security guards who are ushering out all the magazine's employees.  Unbeknownst to Ned, while he was on vacation, the Germans sold the magazine to its fiercest competitor, which in turn decided to close the magazine down and fire everyone.  Ned's boss, Chuck Zanussi, whose place he was slated to take, heard about the deal Ned had struck with the Germans, and takes a confrontational stance.  Chuck is placed in charge of the new magazine, and tells Ned he will never have a job again if there's anything he can do about it.<br /><br />Ned goes on a downward spiral.  In addition to his troubles with Chuck Zanussi, Ted Peterson is also out to destroy his career, and every time it seems as if he may have a job possibility, one of his enemies puts a stop to it.  Ned becomes depressed about being supported by his wife and drives a wedge between the two of them.  She accepts a temporary job on the west coast in order to get some space from Ned.  Then, when Ivan commits suicide over losing his new job (compliments of Ted Peterson), Ned really screws up and Lizzie throws him out of their apartment.  Left with no money and nowhere to go, Ned calls Jerry, an old school friend he bumped into who now works for a major bigshot.  Jerry gladly takes Ned in, setting him up in the spare room of his loft.<br /><br />Jerry is the right-hand man of Mr. Ballantine, an ex-football player turned real estate mogul turned self-help author.  One of Ballantine's new ventures is private equity funds, and he hires Ned to use his connections to line up potential new companies for investment.  Ned has suspicions about the authenticity of his new job, but since it's the only thing he's got going, he keeps quiet.  Things get suddenly sticky for Ned when he finds out that Jerry and Ted Peterson have apparently been doing business together, and the fund he is working for is definitely not what it's supposed to be.  Ned is in way over his head, and suddenly looking at prison time or death.<br /><br />Desperate, he finally levels with Lizzie and tells her everything that has happened, and she helps him find a way out.  At the conclusion, Ned manages to disentangle himself from the mess he got into, but several other matters are unresolved, like his relationship with Lizzie and his career potential.<br /><br />Douglas Kennedy has a definite talent for taking everyday lives and giving them an ominous spin.  From the very first page, we are drawn into the drama of Ned Allen's life, and feel the foreboding hanging over him when it starts to unwind.  It makes for a compelling, page-turning read.  The villains in this book may be business moguls versus terrorists or island-dwelling megalomaniacs, but perhaps because of their ordinariness, they're even scarier.  We see people like them every day at the office.<br /><br />This was my second foray into the world of Douglas Kennedy, and though this book was very different from his first (The Big Picture), they were equally good, and I'll be searching for more.their ordinariness, they're even scarier.  We see people like them every day at the office.   <br /> <br />This was my second foray into the world of Douglas Kennedy, and though this book was very different from his first (The Big Picture), they were equally good, and I'll be searching for more. <br />	2005-08-18
US	24860454	R1FBPYWVEZPGI6	0373612966	204415940	Riding the Storm (Code Red) (Code Red)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Good Read for a Stormy Night	Weary and worse for wear, paramedic Nate Kellison jumps at the call to action when help is requested in Turning Point, Texas, under the threat of a hurricane.  He is immediately drawn to volunteer Jolene Kannon-Angel, widowed and pregnant.  Jolene is impulsive, always rushing to save others at her own peril.  Nate is serious and responsible.  Both, from the hand of fate, feel a bit cast off from the world, an undesirable prospect for the opposite sex.  Yet, each is immediately attracted to the other as they perform feats of derring-do, then seek comfort in each other under the onslaught of a screaming hurricane.  They heat up the barn and the sheets, and fall in love, and Nate realizes he's found the place where he belongs.<br /><br />This Code Red-on-the-road novel was a sweet, old-fashioned romance with a virginal heroine and a world-weary hero who light each other up and have some hot sex.  There was more action than longing and pining, though there was a little of that.  A few details were overlooked, and, despite the hurricane disaster setting, it was a bit on the fluffy side.  Engaging and well-written, though.  Sort of a new age fairytale with a small lump of sugar.	2005-08-18
US	24860454	R15F7Y1EK1TODV	039915289X	197843346	Origin in Death	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Wow!  This ROCKED!	Lieutenant Eve Dallas of the New York Police and Security Department is taking a statement in the posh Icove Center, an upscale plastic surgery clinic, when a body is found.  Wilfred B. Icove Sr., founder of the Icove Center and all-around saint, has been stabbed through the heart with a scalpel.  Eve knows the why will lead her to who, so she looks deeply into some strange data found in Dr. Icove's apartment and discovers an amazing and chilling secret.  I can say no more without giving away the suspense that gripped me through most of the book.<br /><br />I have been an Eve Dallas fan practically since she strode onto the page for the first time, and I have loved every one of the books.  Each and every one transports me to New York in 2058 or 2059, and I feel like I know Eve (who I want to be), Roarke, Peabody, Feeney, Mavis, Dr. Mira...everybody down to the nameless New York residents on the street who get pithy one-liners here and there.  But, it's been a long time since I've picked up such a page-turner.  The first couple of chapters hadn't quite got me yet, but once around that first corner, the book grabbed me and wouldn't let go.  I plowed through it, very nearly sneaking it out to read during lulls at work.  It's that good.<br /><br />If you've never read a J.D. Robb book, any one is good, but I would recommend starting at the beginning with \\"Naked In Death\\" and work your way through.  There's a storyline that's been slowly developing among the recurring characters that's fun to follow, and there is no dead time between books.  Each one picks up right where the last one left off, maybe a week later.  Each also has a different tone; while in one Eve might track a vicious serial killer, in another she'll solve a single crime of passion.  Each and every one is a gem, and this one in particular was awesome.<br /><br />Nora, you rock.	2005-08-16
US	24860454	R31R4TJNHUZW6U	0385336810	693014192	Can You Keep a Secret?	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Fun Little Romp	The creator of our favorite shopaholic brings us Emma Corrigan, marketing assistant for the Panther Corporation.  Emma has had a bit of trouble finding her way in the world, and this is the third career she's tried.  It seems to be going nowhere, as evidenced by the disastrous meeting she attends in Glasgow.  Things get even worse when her plane home hits turbulence and she blurts out all of her secrets to the man sitting next to her, who turns out to be the owner of the Panther Corporation, Jack Harper.  At first, Jack makes her nervous, but the more they bump into each other (or Jack seeks her out), the more the bond between them grows, and pretty soon they're a hot, though secret, item.  Emma is sure she's got the perfect romance until Jack's carelessness with her secrets turns her world upside down, and she feels used and betrayed.  Jack's got a lot of work to do to win her back!<br /><br />Though not quite as engaging as the Shopaholic books, this was a fun, light read with heartwarming characters and some good humor.  Emma's obnoxious cousin and coworkers get their proper comeuppance, and the good guys win.  This is a nice, light romantic fantasy in the time-honored British tradition.	2005-08-11
US	24860454	R2A35L27G4JM3F	051513712X	55912034	Skyhook	Books	2	4	5	N	N	Sky-Rooked!	During the top-secret testing of a new remote flight control box, something goes horribly wrong, and a Gulfstream nearly crashes.  At the same time and, obviously in the same airspace, 747 captain Arlie Rosen flies his Albatross into trouble.  Arlie, using visual flight control, flies into a cloud bank where he throws a propeller blade and crashes.  He and his wife Rachel are rescued, but Arlie gets his pilot's license revoked by an overzealous FAA inspector.  This sends his daughter April and family friend Gracie on a campaign to clear Arlie's name.  They are met with the usual stonewall of bureaucracy, with a behind-the-scenes cover-up at work, as well.<br /><br />Even though we were aboard the Gulfstream when we know it took Arlie Rosen's Albatross out of the sky, with the added bonus of sitting in with the head software engineer while he worried over the failing program that caused the crash, the book goes round and round, after round, between the government brass, the Rosen clan, and the software engineer as they slowly and laboriously figure out what was obvious to us by the end of Chapter One.<br /><br />When the resolution finally drags itself to the party, everything gets tidily tied up, all the nice guys win and get promoted, and there are smiles all around.<br /><br />With some fun, likeable characters, snappy dialogue, and a believable story line, this could have been a decent book.  As it was, I couldn't make myself warm to anybody.  The Rosens lived a cushy existence and April had obviously never had a bad day in her charmed life.  At 25, she's a high-paid vice president at a cruise line and can just walk away from her job without a thought.  Nobody at work minds, though, because she's such an asset to the company.  She lives in a high-rise condo.  Gracie, her surrogate sister, is close to the family, though everyone is always quick to point out, not actually a part of it.  Gracie has secured a position at Jantzen and Pruzan, a high-buck law firm that values her so much, they hand her the moon when she drops what must surely be a crushing workload to work on her personal issues, using her employer as a front, instead.  She also has the amazing ability to never need to speak to a judge during business hours and instead chooses to bother them at home, where they let her in, hear her out, lecture her on impropriety, and then give her her way.  She lives on a yacht and drives a Corvette.<br /><br />Dialogue is stilted and more often than not used as a forum for the author to complain about his dislike of slang.  This only serves to put these self-righteous characters one plane further away from anywhere I want to be.  Added to that is the utterly ludicrous plot that goes nowhere, circling the obvious around and around.  We got it already.  Why can't any of these Pleasantville characters figure it out?  This had to be the sloppiest government cover-up in history, which all could have been avoided if someone high up had told the FAA to back down and give Arlie his license back.  But then there would have been no story.<br /><br />There wasn't one anyway.  This book was just plain unrealistic from start to finish, starred unlikeable characters reminiscent of a preachy 1950's TV show, and had horrible dialogue.  Save yourself-buy something else.that values her so much, they hand her the moon when she drops what must surely be a crushing workload to work on her personal issues, using her employer as a front, instead.  She also has the amazing ability to never need to speak to a judge during business hours and instead chooses to bother them at home, where they let her in, hear her out, lecture her on impropriety, and then give her her way.  She lives on a yacht and drives a Corvette. <br /> <br />Dialogue is stilted and more often than not used as a forum for the author to complain about his dislike of slang.  This only serves to put these self-righteous characters one plane further away from anywhere I want to be.  Added to that is the utterly ludicrous plot that goes nowhere, circling the obvious around and around.  We got it already.  Why can't any of these Pleasantville characters figure it out?  This had to be the sloppiest government cover-up in history, which all could have been avoided if someone high up had told the FAA to back down and give Arlie his license back.  But then there would have been no story. <br /> <br />There wasn't one anyway.  This book was just plain unrealistic from start to finish, starred unlikeable characters reminiscent of a preachy 1950's TV show, and had horrible dialogue.  Save yourself-buy something else. <br />	2005-08-11
US	24860454	R329D6L9MS5DRE	0778322009	505530849	Skintight (MIRA)	Books	4	11	13	N	N	Solid Good Read	Characters are what Susan Andersen does best.  Her latest offering is no exception, delivering Las Vegas showgirl Treena McCall and world-class poker player Jax Gallagher, along with Treena's best friend, fellow showgirl Carly, ex-librarian Ellen, and handyman Mack.  We meet all of them as we step into rooms with them and watch them interact.  Then, once we're on friendly terms, we're let into their heads, experiencing their thoughts and feelings through casual, yet touching prose.  They are all wonderful people, sensitive, strong, and flawed.  The men, in particular, are well-drawn, their natural masculinity preserved even as we see the chinks in their armor.<br /><br />The story begins as Jax listens in on Treena's 35th birthday celebration in a bar at the fictitious Aventurrato Casino on the Las Vegas strip.  Treena, recently widowed, had been married to Jax's father, Big Jim McCall, and is now in possession of a valuable World Series baseball handed down by Jax's grandfather.  Jax knows exactly who Treena is, but she has no idea of his real identity.<br /><br />Jax's image of Treena as a gold-digging trophy bride is wildly inaccurate, though, as he starts to discover during his staged pursuit of her, the ultimate goal being to abscond with the baseball.  Jax finds himself throwing away opportunities to find the ball, however, as he falls in love with Treena, even though his health is dependent on his plan's success, since the man he lost it to on a bet is threatening to break his hands.  As things between Jax and Treena deepen, Jax realizes he needs to come clean with her about who he is and why he sought her out.  Naturally, he does it too late.<br /><br />At this point, unlike an unfortunate number of her contemporaries, Susan Andersen does not fabricate a contrived emergency that throws our hero and heroine back together, nor does she stumble through a sloppy resolution that drags on.  Instead, she comes through with flying colors, taking the opportunity to really show us what these characters are made of, from the wrenchingly painful depths of their emotions to how they behave under pressure.<br /><br />Though I didn't get as excited about this book as some of Andersen's others, I liked it a lot.  I appreciate her female characters in particular; strong, self-sufficient women with both feet on the ground, working hard and fulfilling their own lives without giving up an ounce of vulnerability or femininity.  This book has the added bonus of a deftly-handled senior romance as a side story that fits neatly, as well as a tease into what will next surely be Carly's story.<br /><br />This was a very nice, very satisfying modern romance with surprising depth.ity to really show us what these characters are made of, from the wrenchingly painful depths of their emotions to how they behave under pressure. <br /> <br />Though I didn't get as excited about this book as some of Andersen's others, I liked it a lot.  I appreciate her female characters in particular; strong, self-sufficient women with both feet on the ground, working hard and fulfilling their own lives without giving up an ounce of vulnerability or femininity.  This book has the added bonus of a deftly-handled senior romance as a side story that fits neatly, as well as a tease into what will next surely be Carly's story. <br />This was a very nice, very satisfying modern romance with surprising depth. <br />	2005-07-29
US	24860454	R17MO01EX84NQ3	0312306261	643244690	Eleven on Top	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Back to the Burg and Loving It!	Stephanie Plum has had it with tussling with the dregs of society, so she quits her job as a bond enforcement agent and tries a succession of other jobs that, of course, become disasters.  Eventually, she winds up at Rangeman, Inc. running computer checks for oh-so-sexy bounty hunter Ranger.  Meanwhile, Lula tries to take over Stephanie's old job, but always requires Stephanie's help, Morelli winds up with a broken leg, and somebody keeps blowing up Stephanie's cars.  It all seems to be tied to four men who have mysteriously disappeared, and another shadowy character who seems to have reappeared.  Stephanie manages to stumble onto the truth while flirting with Ranger, getting it on with Morelli, and fielding pre-wedding jitters from her sister Valerie and fianc&eacute; Albert Kloughn.<br /><br />Eleven on Top is another fun romp through the Burg with all our favorite characters and their usual hijinks.  There were several laugh-out-loud moments with some mystery thrown in along Stephanie's usual path through harm's way.  She probably gets more gunk in her hair in this book than any of the others, too.  At this point, it's hard to pinpoint which Plum adventure is my favorite, but this one ranks right up there.	2005-07-26
US	24860454	RAHQGSP3ASKB5	0446352764	690907295	Double Whammy	Books	4	5	6	N	Y	Fun Florida Romp	Hiaasen tackles the high-stakes world of tournament bass fishing in this romp through Harney County, Florida.  RJ Decker is a photographer-turned-PI who gets hired by rich brat Dennis Gault to catch TV bass-fishing star Dickie Lockhart in the act of cheating during a tournament.  Meanwhile, avid bass fisherman Bobby Clinch winds up dead, leaving behind a relieved widow and an orange Corvette-driving girlfriend, Lanie Gault, Dennis Gault's sleazy sister.  When Dickie Lockhart is found floating in a fish tank in New Orleans after a tournament, all hell breaks loose.  RJ turns to his odd new friends, the swamp-dwelling Skink, state trooper Jim Tile, and Cuban detective Al Garcia, rounding it out with his ex-wife Catherine, while they untangle a string of murders.  They're pitted against the Gaults, the cops, some bizarre redneck thugs, and the leadership of the Outdoor Christian Network, with a backdrop of televised bass fishing and some grisly happenings to pave the way.<br /><br />Though not as laugh-out-loud funny as \\"Stormy Weather,\\" \\"Double Whammy\\" was a highly entertaining read that did make me laugh out loud.  It's hard not to love the whole cast of good guys while sniggering at the idiotic, evil bad guys.  This one is four-star entertainment.	2005-07-26
US	24860454	R3KUCUM8O5IWIZ	0425185958	494285039	Drummer in the Dark (Marcus Glenwood Series #2)	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Decent White Collar Thriller	This book gets off to a slow start, taking a bit too long to let us in on what's going on, but once it gets going, it's not bad.<br /><br />Wynn Bryant is a man of means who obviously travels in better circles than I do, since at a mere suggestion from his sister, he becomes an interim Congressman.  He wanders around DC without a clue until he gets dragged on a journey to Rome and Cairo, and gets pulled into some hefty intrigue.<br /><br />Jackie Burke is a windsurfer with a crappy job who suddenly gets hired by the wife of the ill Congressman whose place Wynn takes.  Jackie realizes something big is afoot when the investigation she has been hired to undertake gets her apartment broken into and trashed.  She meets Wynn and feels an instant attraction and kinship when they go to Rome, though most of their relationship throughout the rest of the book happens over the telephone.<br /><br />Behind all the aforementioned intrigue is financier Pavel Hayek, a billionaire maverick who moved his foreign exchange trading business to Florida from Wall Street.  As the author took so much time carefully constructing the plot, it seems unfair to give it away here.  Suffice it to say, Hayek is a very bad man with some very big, very bad plans, and it's up to Wynn and Jackie to figure out what they are and stop him.<br /><br />Once things got moving, it was a fairly compelling read.  It was hard to get a fix on Wynn's character, aside from the fact that he had a painful past and a lot of money to blow.  The other characters, save one or two, didn't go very deep, either.  Jackie was likeable, though.  Things wrapped up a little too neatly with a pretty bow on top, and the author relied too heavily on leaving everyone out of the loop-the protagonists and the reader-but getting there managed to keep my interest.  All in all, not a bad financial/political thriller.	2005-07-21
US	24860454	R2BFP74WNRF8Q8	037361294X	992939057	The Trigger	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Top notch	Finally, a book that doesn't toss the hero and heroine into matrimony two weeks after they meet.  I noticed an inordinate number of Code Reds had couples who had split up and reunited through their experience in the book as a way around time constraints.  The whole approach this book took was different.<br /><br />The story begins when, after the latest in a series of bombings, the police department decides to pair its bomb squad specialist, Nora Keyes, with the fire department's arson investigator, Sam Prophet.  Nor and Sam are opposites-she's Oscar and he's Felix.  At first, sparks fly and they argue over who's boss.  Their professionalism soon has them working as a team, however, and they develop respect for one another's talents.  As they track down clues, they also develop a strong attraction to one another.  They have a few heated moments, but decide to ignore their feelings and do their jobs.  One night, just before Nora faces danger that could take her life, they give in and burn up the sheets.  They don't have time to moon over it, as danger looms.  But, when both face close calls, they realize just how much they enjoy each other and how much they want to be together.  But...Sam doesn't propose!  He asks her to move in, and a quick mention of their wedding six months down the road wraps it up.<br /><br />Nora and Sam are delightful characters.  Nora likes excitement and danger and drives a sports car.  She fears nothing.  She's also cool and in control, wasting no time dithering about her feelings.  They're there, and she deals with them.  Sam is sweet, handsome, and wonderful.  What else do you need?<br /><br />The mystery progressed nicely along the way, too, as Sam and Nora go about interviewing people and researching files to solve the case.  It all seemed pretty first-class until it was all over and Sam wondered how they could have caught their serial bomber earlier.  Suddenly, I thought, \\"They probably could have solved it the day they connected the three companies if they'd accessed the civil court files for the past five years-a matter of public record-and looked up plaintiffs in lawsuits against the companies involved.\\"  But...I deal with civil lawsuits at work every day so maybe my mind makes that leap faster than others.  It was one flaw, and one that appeared at the end of the book.<br /><br />Nora is definitely my favorite Code Red heroine so far, and she had tough competition with Shannon and Jackie.  This book has definitely restored my interest in the happenings in Courage Bay.s if they'd accessed the civil court files for the past five years-a matter of public record-and looked up plaintiffs in lawsuits against the companies involved.\\"  But...I deal with civil lawsuits at work every day so maybe my mind makes that leap faster than others.  It was one flaw, and one that appeared at the end of the book. <br />Nora is definitely my favorite Code Red heroine so far, and she had tough competition with Shannon and Jackie.  This book has definitely restored my interest in the happenings in Courage Bay. <br />	2005-07-15
US	24860454	R3PPYK2K5T2XYG	0373612877	31582309	Total Exposure	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Not totally exciting	The fourth Code Red installment begins in the examining room of Dr. Natalie Giroux.  She's annoyed with the fire chief, Dan Egan, for missing his fifth appointment, so she agrees to go to him at the fire station when Dan's daughter Debra urges it.  She is just about to examine him when an alarm goes off, so the stubborn doctor follows him to the scene of a mudslide, where they effect a helicopter rescue together.  On their way to return the helicopter to its berth, they run into a bad storm, get hit by lightning, and crash land on a small island in the bay.  They find shelter in a Coast Guard cabin and soon, in close quarters, are assailed by a strong attraction for one another.  The problem is that they crashed on what would have been Natalie's wedding day one year before, had her fianc&eacute; not died of a heart attack only a few days before the big day.  Dan is also nursing wounds from his wife's death by cancer two years earlier.  Dan battles his attraction to Natalie until passion overcomes him, and then finds he doesn't feel guilty, he feels it's time to move on.  Natalie is more well-adjusted and grabs onto her second chance.  While the two dine on soup and roll around on cots in the Coast Guard cabin, a burglar is loose on the island, which leads to the inevitable showdown between the crook and our hero and heroine.  This would have been the time to wrap it up, but the story rambles on with Dr. Giroux wandering listless and lonely through her too-large townhome while Dan pays a visit to the cemetery to say a final goodbye to his dead wife, and finally parts with his wedding ring.  After, Dan has a long, heartfelt talk with his daughter about moving on, with Dr. Giroux.  Finally, he goes to Natalie to propose, which is awkwardly executed.  But, Natalie accepts and everyone lives happily ever after.  Not a bad book, though the denouement needs an injection.  Perhaps if I had ever lost a lover I might have found it poignant, but since I haven't, it lost me.  I'm hoping my next venture into Courage Bay is more exciting.ng my next venture into Courage Bay is more exciting.	2005-07-15
US	24860454	R2NIEP7IQVD3KZ	0060580674	65418970	Sandstorm (Sigma Force)	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Not my favorite Rollins	Rollins goes in a slightly different direction this time, creating more mystery than action bordering on sci-fi fantasy.  No bizarre half-world creatures inhabit this book.  Instead, it begins with special secret agent Painter Crow as he learns of betrayal while a Terminator-type villainess is born.  Painter and new partner Coral are sent to London when a freak explosion takes out the British Museum's Kensington Gallery, owned by amphetamine-popping heiress Kara Kensington, curated by Kara's lifelong companion, Dr. Safia al-Maaz.  A find among the gallery's ruins leads Kara, Safia, and Safia's ex-fiance, Omaha Dunn, along with Omaha's brother Danny and graduate student Clay on an adventure.  They are joined, with pressure from the US government, by Painter and Coral.  They are also shadowed by Painter's nemesis, the cold, calculating, and cunning Cassandra.  She chases them to Oman and the tombs of Nabi Imran (the Virgin Mary's father) and Ayoub (Job).  The good guys join forces with a tribe of desert herders and a clan of women descendants of the Queen of Sheba, relatives of Safia's mother, who had once been one of them.  They search through a procession of clues and find an underground city filled with wonder and horror.  The whole time, they are tenaciously stalked by the evil Cassandra and her endless supply of ruthless thugs.  Throughout, a horrific storm of sand from inland moves toward a storm of hurricane proportions from the sea, destined to meet right where the action is taking place.  All the forces come together for an explosive ending where good overcomes evil at last and true love prevails.<br /><br />Though this book wasn't bad, it lacked the gut-wrenching excitement of \\"Ice Hunt,\\" instead seeming to try delving more deeply into the personalities of the characters.  Safia is a woman with a past, and two men who want her.  Though the love triangle aspect wasn't cumbersome, it also wasn't necessary, and was space that could have been better spent on more action or intrigue or...something.  Kara's amphetamine problem, a big deal in the beginning, fades away to nothing, appearing as a blip in the postscript.<br /><br />With its female-heavy cast, this book might be a good first adventure foray for a romance enthusiast, but for a hard-core adventure fan, it's a bit tame.  It's all right, but I'd use a different Rollins book to lure in new readers.ore action or intrigue or...something.  Kara's amphetamine problem, a big deal in the beginning, fades away to nothing, appearing as a blip in the postscript. <br /> <br />With its female-heavy cast, this book might be a good first adventure foray for a romance enthusiast, but for a hard-core adventure fan, it's a bit tame.  It's all right, but I'd use a different Rollins book to lure in new readers. <br />	2005-07-15
US	24860454	R24BOLMLUW7K3E	0425183181	56670369	A Little Magic	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A Lot of Fun	Comprised of three novellas from Nora's \\"Once Upon\\" collaborations, this was a quick, easy read.  \\"Spellbound\\" starred Calin Farrell, an overworked artist who impulsively travels to Ireland and meets up with Bryna, a witch guarding the Castle of Secrets.  As a child, Calin dreamed of Bryna, but as he got older, he blocked the connection and buried her memory.  Bryna, with her powers, kept her eye on Calin, knowing he was the key to her destiny.  Now, she has mere hours to convince him that she is his, or she suffers a horrible fate.<br /><br />In \\"Ever After,\\" misfit Allena Kennedy is in Ireland working for her sister's tour company when she misses a ferry and winds up on a strange island inhabited by Conal O'Neil.  Through stormy days and nights, Conal fights the knowledge that Allena is his destiny, even while he falls for her.<br /><br />\\"In Dreams\\" was the story of Flynn, a 528-year-old magician under a spell.  Because he misused his powers, Flynn was doomed to exist in a dreamy half world, only to emerge and be human for one week every hundred years.  Upon waking on the end of his fifth century of imprisonment, Flynn hears Kayleen pounding at his door.  Vacationing in Ireland, Kayleen crashed her car in a storm, and ran toward the lights of Flynn's castle.  Flynn had dreamed of her during his exile and cherished his time with her, knowing he had only one week.  Can he learn his lesson and break the spell?<br /><br />Each story was under 100 pages in length, and jumped straight into the heart of the matter.  Each was rich in character and setting, a flash of the talent that is Nora Roberts.  For those who like a little magic and don't have a lot of time, the book was an entertaining way to pass a few hours.	2005-07-15
US	24860454	RHA3RMXLLVHGJ	0373612907	495714834	Tremors	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Nice Modern Romance	I have to give Harlequin credit for trying to cover all the bases when it comes to modern relationships.  Sometimes it doesn't work, but this time it did.  The story begins when fire captain Joe Ripani effects a daring rescue after an earthquake levels a parking garage.  The woman he rescues happens to be Lisa Malloy, a woman with whom he had a blazing hot affair, but he had ended it three weeks before.  Joe is a footloose guy and Lisa wanted to settle down, so Joe walked away.  In the hospital after he rescues Lisa, Joe overhears she's pregnant and knows the baby is his, so he proposes.  Wanting a good life for her baby, Lisa accepts.  The two get married, but nothing seems to go right.  All of Joe's efforts fall flat and he begins to regret his decision.  Every time Lisa resolves she's been at fault and wants to make an effort, Joe screws up or her pregnancy adversely affects her.  Just like real life!  Finally, when Lisa winds up in the hospital again after an aftershock puts her in a car accident, Joe realizes how much she means to him and professes his love.  Lisa, in turn, opens up to him, they finally consummate their marriage, and things start looking up.  Though not infused with action, this book managed to hold my interest.  The heroine had a rewarding veterinary career but also a life, and the hero behaved like a real guy; one a woman would feel lucky to have.  Things are looking up in Courage Bay.	2005-07-15
US	24860454	RJO28OBHGGSGB	0373612885	817577218	Blown Away	Books	2	1	2	N	N	Barely a Breeze	I started having fun with the latest Code Red offing because the heroine has my name.  However, we have nothing else in common.  This Kara was a part-time hang gliding instructor who immediately quit when a stray wind blew her into a tree.  Wimp.  Kara's strong points are that she likes to bake and handles teenagers, part of her job as a music teacher.  Our hero, Cole Winslow, is a K-9 officer who rescues her from the tree.  While it is refreshing to read novels containing characters with pasts, sometimes authors tend to dwell on it a bit much.  This book also commits the sin of throwing our protagonists into the middle of a relationship within days.  The story goes:  Kara's ex-husband and father of her son was a loser who spent all their money on get-rich-quick schemes and wound up in prison.  Cole's ex-wife was in a rock band and, after selfishly ignoring his needs for several years, she died in a car accident.  Kara is afraid she won't meet someone she can rely on and Cole is still sniveling that relationships aren't for him, even as he pursues Kara.  They finally get over it and, after hanging out together a couple of times, they decide to get married.  The book was not badly written; just not for me.  Give me a heroine who can make cookies and indulge in extreme sports.  And for God's sake, give your characters some time to get to know each other before they get married.  Courage Bay is losing its luster because some romance authors just don't know how to give us some adventure.	2005-07-15
US	24860454	R15TELRLFH0JSU	0743452593	751849605	Oyster Blues: A Novel	Books	1	6	11	N	N	Because there is no zero	Comparing this book to Hiaasen, Leonard, Dorsey, or Barry is like comparing Shakespeare to comic books.  It's a sacrilege.  I was suckered into buying it because of all the hype about what a funny Florida crime romp it was.  What a terrible disappointment I suffered.  While the story sounds promising, the writer has a tendency to go off on tangents that are just plain boring.  I really didn't care enough about a chicken carcass being thrown overboard and sinking to the bottom of the ocean to read about it for three pages.  Every situation is explained to absolute death, and I found myself yawning endlessly until I finally, joyously, reached the end.  I recoiled in horror when I saw a new book by the same author in bookstores.  Reading this one was enough to put me off this writer forever, and warn everyone I can reach!  I am absolutely stunned that people liked it.  Whoever compared this drivel to Hiaasen, Leonard, Dorsey, or Barry should be sued for libel.	2005-06-22
US	24860454	R3TF14K7HFPY5B	0786890487	980406520	Star Quality	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Decent Quality	I love books like this, female sagas that span generations, full of intrigue and glamour.  While Judith Krantz did it a little better, Joan Collins isn't bad.  Our story begins in London near the turn of the 20th century when poor Irish girl Millie McClancey takes a job as a house maid for a rich London family.  Millie is quickly caught up in the excitement of the popular dance revues, and soon is practicing songs and routines of her own.  One day, Toby Swannell, her employer's son (and an unapologetic womanizer) finds her practicing and encourages her to meet him in private to perform.  When another jealous maid finds her out, Millie runs back to Ireland, sure she's going lose her job.  She manages to find work in the local pubs doing her singing and dancing routines, until Toby shows up to sweep her off her feet.  They get engaged, and Toby finally talks Millie into bed, but he gets cold feet and takes off before they can be married, leaving Millie pregnant.  She is not thrilled about it, and things get even tougher when the aunt she's been living with dies and her home is repossessed.  With nowhere else to go, Millie returns to London and gets a job in the chorus of a revue, and then moves on to become a big star.  Millie is too busy performing to be much of a mother, and does not feel deep maternal love toward her daughter, Vickie, so Vickie grows up with Millie's friend Susie, while Millie advances her career on Broadway.  Millie marries a notorious mobster, and they live a glittering life until Millie's death.<br /><br />The story then shifts to Vickie, who is a bit of a shy wallflower.  After her mother's death, her stepfather has her brought to the United States, where she lives quietly in the country until Susie sends photos of her to a Hollywood studio when the search is on to find a Scarlett O'Hara for \\"Gone With the Wind.\\"  Vickie doesn't get the part, but Hollywood likes her looks, and she moves there and builds a career as a movie star during Hollywood's golden age.  Vickie has a string of affairs, but never manages to find love, until she meets Sebastian Swannell and gives up her career to be a duchess.  The most disappointing part of the book is that Vickie's blood relationship to Sebastian is only handled peripherally.  She never figures out he's her half-brother, until the very last part of the book, and then the subject is just dropped.  How she managed to miss out on that, as her real father's name was on her birth certificate, bothered me.  Anyhow, Vickie's marriage to Sebastian soon hits the skids, and she has another fling with her longtime married lover, Cooper.  She and Cooper conceive a child, but since it's a girl, Vickie has no trouble getting out of her marriage to Sebastian.  She returns to Hollywood and finally marries Cooper, and they settle down to raise their little girl, Lulu.<br /><br />Lulu is a wild child bent on self-destruction, and apparently has no feelings for anyone who cares for her.  She walks out on her mother and moves to New York at a young age, and soon becomes a world-renowned supermodel.  Her career is at the top, but because of her drug problems and her very public lesbian affairs, it all falls apart.  After disappearing for awhile and having a baby in secret, she reinvents herself as a soap opera star, on the same show where her mother also gets a job.  They manage to repair their uneasy relationship and in the end, Lulu's daughter is also on her way to superstardom.<br /><br />There's a lot packed into only a few pages in this book, so the story always keeps moving.  It does not, however, pause much for reflection, or for deep glimpses into the characters.  That's too bad, too, because we have a good cast.  Millie, Vickie, and Lulu are far from perfect, often selfish and irresponsible, yet (possibly with the exception of Lulu) they are likeable.  They make choices that just sometimes aren't good, but I could always relate to the reasons.  While it could have benefited fromsome fleshing out, I still think this was a good, solid book, and a lot of fun!d from some fleshing out, I still think this was a good, solid book, and a lot of fun! <br />	2005-06-02
US	24860454	R3HWB4MI4OAJEK	0451214633	745582648	Live Bait (A Monkeewrench Novel)	Books	3	1	3	N	N	This Series is Off and Running	The story here takes place during an April heat wave in Minneapolis; annoying since I read it during the coldest May in years, but not the authors' fault!  We are plunged immediately back into the lives of the Monkeewrench characters:  Monkeewrench-Grace, Roadrunner, Harley, and Annie; the cops-Magozzi and Rolseth and too many others to keep straight.  The book also assumes we remember these people from the first installment because there isn't much back story on anyone, which gets really confusing with the litany of cops.  Adding to the confusion is the authors' use of Gino's first name and Magozzi's last name throughout, leaving me to feel that the authors thought the name Magozzi was horribly clever and wanted to see it in print as often as possible.  The only clue to Roadrunner's personality is that he's skinny and wears bright head-to-toe Spandex.  What we see of Harley and Annie is overdone.  He's a biker who cries listening to opera, and she's fat but so sexy every man who comes across her path drools.  Wow, people who don't fit into a mold.  How unique!<br /><br />Things start happening when homicide detectives Gino Rolseth and Leo Magozzi are dealt a number of cases:  one Lutheran and three Jews, all elderly, all murdered.  The victims don't seem connected, except the dead Jews were all concentration camp survivors.  When Grace runs a check through Monkeewrench's new software, though, she uncovers some shocking secrets and things begin to unravel all at once.  With some nice twists and turns, and a turning point for the haunted Grace, it all comes together for a satisfying conclusion.<br /><br />The authors have a good thing going with this series and do a fair job with their male characters, though they need to practice a bit more restraint in some areas lest they get carried away.  The banter between the cops was almost too much and felt forced, and I've about had it with hearing about how sexy Annie is.  Her sole purpose in these books seems to be to say, \\"Fat women are sexy, too!\\"  We get it already.  But, aside from a few little character flaws, this was a pretty solid mystery.  The pacing is good and the suspense well woven.  I look forward to the next in the series.to say, \\"Fat women are sexy, too!\\"  We get it already.  But, aside from a few little character flaws, this was a pretty solid mystery.  The pacing is good and the suspense well woven.  I look forward to the next in the series. <br />	2005-05-26
US	24860454	R1LR94PTRC744O	044100685X	474979519	OceanSpace: A Novel	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Undersea Pleaser	Allen Steele proves once again that he could easily move into the adventure market if he wanted to broaden his horizons.<br /><br />The action kicks off undersea when submersible pilot Joe Niedziwicki nearly gets killed by a giant sea serpent while collecting manganese nodules from a deep sea mining robot.  Joe is rescued by Peter Lipscomb, a coworker testing subs for the Yamaya Corporation, which has all the book's characters employed at Tethys sea station, moored near the North American continent by the Blake Plateau and comprised of a station above the water, Tethys I, and undersea station Tethys II.<br /><br />Peter's wife Judith, also employed by Yamaya, is a marine biologist interested in sea monsters.  Judith cuts her Dominican vacation with Dr. Charles Toussaint, her and Peter's former professor, short when she hears Joe's tale.  She and Charles rush to Tethys, where they're joined by Peter's niece Andie and slutty, nosy reporter Leslie Sun, there to write an article on Tethys for Millennium magazine.<br /><br />They spend a few days topside before descending to Tethys II and, for Judith and Andie, a dangerous submarine journey.  Peter stays at Tethys, where Leslie makes her move.  Charles stays in order to conduct some corporate espionage, trying to sell a vial of water obtained from a black smoker to a rival company.  He ups the stakes when Judith's submarine mission finds a new vent field near the Mid-Atlantic Ridge.<br /><br />The action never quite reaches much of a peak, yet the writing was compelling to the last page, and the drama between the characters moved at a steady pace.  There was always something happening, even if events never reached fever pitch.  I just reminded myself that this is SF, not Dirk Pitt.  In keeping, the ending was quiet, lightly touched with irony, and not an explosive blow-out.  Though tamer than most undersea adventures I've read, it was a very good read with likeable characters and never a dull moment.  There is only one thing I would change:  I'd have the sea monster eat the bad guys.e:  I'd have the sea monster eat the bad guys. <br />	2005-05-19
US	24860454	R15F4YIKPBS5OS	0312291639	244886090	The Nanny Diaries: A Novel	Books	1	11	20	N	N	The Whiny Diaries	The market for \\"poor, pitiful me\\" stories must be a lot stronger than I thought if this book even got published, much less became a big hit.  As if the incessant whining throughout isn't bad enough, we're punished by the authors' lack of creativity with names.  Our nanny is \\"Nan\\" and she goes to work for Mr. and Mrs. X.  Catchy--not!  I was expecting a comedy, but this book was nothing but a cautionary tale for those who plan to go through life eliminating the word NO from their vocabulary.  Nan takes a job as a nanny for Grayer X, and soon finds herself working impossible hours, jeopardizing her education and personal relationships, and being asked to do a variety of demeaning tasks by the cold, heartless Mrs. X.  Nan should have laid down the law from the very beginning on what was acceptable to ask of her and what was not, but she just kept taking the abuse and sniveling about it privately.  Nan gets stiffed on earnings and put upon every step of the way, and in the end, she slinks away with her tail between her legs.  I kept thinking, \\"She's not an illegal alien, right?  So she could get another job somewhere, one where she would earn fair wages and be treated like a human, right?\\"  And yet, she apparently preferred to be the X's whipping girl.  I didn't toss this book out a window, but that's only because I borrowed it from a friend.	2005-05-12
US	24860454	RLQ32WBRYB6QI	074341263X	219080118	Nighttime Is My Time: A Novel	Books	2	3	3	N	N	Maybe Another Time...	This book made it obvious Mary Higgins Clark has spent a little too much time in collaboration with her daughter.  Carol Higgins Clark's books are lighthearted farce mysteries, and the Christmas collaborations with her mother stay in that vein.  Mary's solo works have always been a little darker and more serious, most of them murder mysteries.  Mary Higgins Clark attempted to put some lightheartedness into this book, and it fell flat.  It's not her thing, and this book would have been better by leaps and bounds had she taken it a little more seriously.<br /><br />It begins with the murder of agent Alison Kendall, shortly before her twentieth anniversary high school reunion.  We then meet some of Alison's old classmates.  Jean Sheridan is a professor who gave her baby up for adoption after graduation because her lover, a West Point cadet, was killed in a hit-and-run a week before graduation.  Jean has been receiving faxes threatening her daughter's life, and feels compelled to find her identity and save her.  Laura Wilcox is an actress with her career on the skids.  She has come to the reunion to suck up to everybody:  Gordon Amory, a successful TV producer, Robby Brent, a comedian developing a TV series, playwright Carter Stewart, even psychiatrist Mark Fleischman and realtor Jack Emerson.  One of the men is a killer, who has killed all the other girls from Laura and Jean's lunch table over the past 20 years, including most recently, Alison Kendall.  He kidnaps Laura, but for reasons that make no sense, other than for him to leave a trail, he keeps her alive.<br /><br />This is when the story lost me.  Clues are regularly dropped throughout, but the characters were all too self-absorbed to follow up on them.  It leads me to believe Mary Higgins Clark felt too lazy to weave a good tale this time out.  Instead of a mixture of real and false clues often leading down blind alleys until things start to come together, clues are scattered about and ignored until the conclusion, because following up on any of them would have given the killer away.  This not only made the story confusing, it was frustrating and made me lose interest.  I knew nothing was going to lead anywhere and I'd finally find out who the killer was in the last chapter, but by then I had ceased caring.  On top of all that, the ending got sticky-sweet and sentimental.  I hope Mary Higgins Clark hasn't lost her edge.  This one just doesn't hold up to the high quality we've come to expect from her.nclusion, because following up on any of them would have given the killer away.  This not only made the story confusing, it was frustrating and made me lose interest.  I knew nothing was going to lead anywhere and I'd finally find out who the killer was in the last chapter, but by then I had ceased caring.  On top of all that, the ending got sticky-sweet and sentimental.  I hope Mary Higgins Clark hasn't lost her edge.  This one just doesn't hold up to the high quality we've come to expect from her. <br />	2005-05-12
US	24860454	RF3Q8OBWESLPG	0373612923	264626794	Crossfire	Books	3	2	2	N	N	It'll Do	This book gets points for breaking new ground, as most of the book takes place over a period of several hours during a hostage situation.  The book begins with all the major players doing their thing the night before.  SWAT paramedic Anna Carson comes to Courage Bay to begin her new job, assailed by her memories of a love affair gone wrong.  Five years ago, she had left Courage Bay and her engagement to Flint Mauro behind to attend SWAT training in Washington, DC.  Anna loved Flint, but he wanted her to pursue a safer career if they married, and refused to see that he was squashing Anna's ambitions.  Now, Flint is SWAT commander in Courage Bay, still missing Anna, and unaware she's back.  We also meet city council clerk Lorna Sinke, sure she's about to be fired by an antagonistic council member, for whom she has plans.  Kenny Reese is a thug who lures a sad old man, Lee Harper, into a plan he figures will have him set for life.<br /><br />Flint and Anna realize they'll be working together the following morning in a meeting with the police chief.  No sooner has the dust settled when they get a call.  Kenny and Lee have taken Lorna Sinke, her poison cookies, and the city council hostage, along with a prestigious judge.  Shots are fired, and Lorna Sinke takes one in the chest.  Kenny gets shot in the arm and demands a doctor be sent in.  Flint and Anna pose as a doctor and nurse and get inside.  What follows are several tense hours of Flint and Anna trying to stabilize the injured, stop Kenny from shooting anyone, and keep Lee from detonating the bomb taped to his chest.  During this time, Flint and Anna examine their feelings for one another, and when things get hairy, they really begin to realize what's important in life.  They work out their problems and achieve a compromise, and then ride off into the sunset.<br /><br />While satisfying enough, the book lacked spark, and though the scenario was fraught with tension, I always felt safely insulated from it.  Also, our highly trained hero and heroine are kind of wimpy when the heat is on.  I know they're supposed to be realistic, but I would hope a SWAT-trained woman could fight better than I can.  Not the most explosive Courage Bay adventure, but better than some.trained hero and heroine are kind of wimpy when the heat is on.  I know they're supposed to be realistic, but I would hope a SWAT-trained woman could fight better than I can.  Not the most explosive Courage Bay adventure, but better than some. <br />	2005-05-11
US	24860454	R2092VI5GGGMHI	0060585609	336709029	Torpedo Juice: A Novel (Serge Storms)	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Serge Does It Again!	Serge is back and funnier than ever when he goes to the Florida Keys to reinvent himself.  The motto:  nobody in the Keys is who they seem.  On a quest to improve himself, Serge goes to a community center full of twelve-step meetings and runs into his old buddy Coleman, whom he thought had been murdered.  Coleman is drinking his way through an AA meeting when Serge finds him.  Serge inadvertently gains a group of followers, people who are prone to join cults.  He starts conducting weekly meetings.  He also decides to get married, and picks out a shy wallflower who's a tiger in bed.  Soon, he's having marital problems for using the wrong towels, and winds up in counseling.<br /><br />Meanwhile, Anna, a woman in a green Trans Am, is on the run from some gangsters who want to kill her.  She hooks up with her bartender friend Jerry, who works at the No Name Bar, where everyone goes.  Anna's on the run from the guys in the white Mercedes with tinted windows.  There's also someone in a brown Plymouth Duster with Ohio plates who keeps trying to kill Serge.  Rich loudmouth Gaskin Fussels, a weekend resident, rounds out the fun.<br /><br />By the time it's all said and done, no one is who they seem, and I was holding my sides with laughter.  The only thing wrong with Tim Dorsey is that he doesn't publish a book every month.	2005-05-10
US	24860454	R2UM2XGET8DQSR	0399152598	742608578	Black Wind (A Dirk Pitt Novel, No. 18)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Dirk Does It Again!	Tom Clancy is right.  A new book by Clive Cussler is like a visit from an old friend.  The latest in the Dirk Pitt series was co-written by Clive's son Dirk, who is apparently poised to take over the reins.  Dirk obviously grew up on Dirk Pitt, as his father penned his first novel next to Dirk's crib, and as such, he's the perfect man for the job.  Additionally, he seems blessed with his father's talent.  This book was only slightly different in tone, and the Cusslers have been smart in aging the original Dirk Pitt, introducing his son Dirk Pitt Jr., and fading the original Dirk somewhat while his son takes over the adventure.  This transition has been taking place slowly, too, lest Clive's longtime fans experience unpleasant rifts in continuity.  It began at the end of Valhalla Rising when Dirk Jr. and Summer made their initial appearance.  They played a bigger role in Trojan Odyssey, though Dirk Sr. was still the star.  He was tiring, though, and got promoted at the end.  This book sees Pitt ensconced in his new job, but not an office.  He and Al have given up going after bad guys but not the sea.  There are a few trademark Dirk and Al scenes, and Dirk risks his life in a daring attempt to save the world.  He steals the big scene, but Dirk Jr. has the show.<br /><br />The story begins in the Aleutian Islands as Dirk Jr. and his sidekick, Jack Dahlgren, rescue some research scientists who are overcome by an airborne toxin.  Some coast guardsmen and a colony of seals weren't so lucky.  When Dirk and Jack fly through the area to check things out, their helicopter is shot out of the sky by a fishing boat.  Later, when Dirk takes one of the researchers out to dinner, they are followed and fired upon by a pair of Asian thugs.  Something is afoot, so Dirk and Jack call upon St. Julien Perlmutter for some information on World War II submarines.  They find one in the Pacific that had been loaded with bioweapons that fortunately had been sunk, all weapons but one destroyed.  The one left had been salvaged by someone and used to poison the air in the Aleutians.<br /><br />Perlmutter's research uncovers a second Japanese sub, sunk in the South China Sea.  Dirk and Summer find the wreck and dive on it in a submersible, salvaging 12 bioweapon canisters.  In the midst of the salvage, however, an Asian crew takes over their support ship and Dirk and Summer are taken to the fortress of Korean magnate Dae-Jong Kang.  It turns out Kang is behind an evil scheme to poison Los Angeles, thereby spreading a lethal smallpox/AIDS plague through the world.  Kang's henchmen leave Dirk and Summer chained in a sea cave to die, but they escape and easily convince NUMA that Kang is up to no good, but the rest of the government is not so easily convinced.<br /><br />Eventually, Dirk and Al, flying an airship full of technological wonders, come across Kang's scheme:  he plans to launch the virus in a rocket.  Dirk Jr. and Jack get themselves in to a bind that Dirk and Al rescue them from, Dirk saves the world, and Dirk Jr. eliminates the last of the bad guys.<br /><br />I found myself cheering for Dirk, a big smile lighting my face as I read.  I would plan to do something between chapters, yet find myself several pages into the next one before I realized what I had done.<br /><br />Summer, Dirk Jr.'s twin sister, plays a much smaller role than I had hoped.  Obviously, the Cussler men aren't comfortable enough with female characters to put one in a lead role.  As a consequence, Summer comes across as a bit more of a shrinking violet than intended.  She's intelligent and strong, yet willing to stand on the sidelines while the boys kick butt.  Still, she's tough and resourceful when she needs to be.<br /><br />Though the world of Dirk Pitt has undergone some changes, fundamentally, it has not changed at all.  Megalomaniacs are still plotting mass destruction and the Pitts and assorted sidekicks rush to the rescue.one left had been salvaged by someone and used to poison the air in the Aleutians. <br />Perlmutter's research uncovers a second Japanese sub, sunk in the South China Sea.  Dirk and Summer find the wreck and dive on it in a submersible, salvaging 12 bioweapon canisters.  In the midst of the salvage, however, an Asian crew takes over their support ship and Dirk and Summer are taken to the fortress of Korean magnate Dae-Jong Kang.  It turns out Kang is behind an evil scheme to poison Los Angeles, thereby spreading a lethal smallpox/AIDS plague through the world.  Kang's henchmen leave Dirk and Summer chained in a sea cave to die, but they escape and easily convince NUMA that Kang is up to no good, but the rest of the government is not so easily convinced. <br />Eventually, Dirk and Al, flying an airship full of technological wonders, come across Kang's scheme:  he plans to launch the virus in a rocket.  Dirk Jr. and Jack get themselves in to a bind that Dirk and Al rescue them from, Dirk saves the world, and Dirk Jr. eliminates the last of the bad guys. <br />I found myself cheering for Dirk, a big smile lighting my face as I read.  I would plan to do something between chapters, yet find myself several pages into the next one before I realized what I had done. <br />Summer, Dirk Jr.'s twin sister, plays a much smaller role than I had hoped.  Obviously, the Cussler men aren't comfortable enough with female characters to put one in a lead role.  As a consequence, Summer comes across as a bit more of a shrinking violet than intended.  She's intelligent and strong, yet willing to stand on the sidelines while the boys kick butt.  Still, she's tough and resourceful when she needs to be. <br />Though the world of Dirk Pitt has undergone some changes, fundamentally, it has not changed at all.  Megalomaniacs are still plotting mass destruction and the Pitts and assorted sidekicks rush to the rescue. <br /> <br />	2005-05-10
US	24860454	R1MYNGOZ05F88Z	0373612869	441793864	Next Of Kin	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Kickin' Kickoff	I love trilogies and series, and I'm obviously not alone, as romance publishers have been cashing in on this idea since at least the 1980's.  Harlequin's latest foray stars experienced, popular authors writing about emergency services personnel in a California seaside town called Courage Bay.  A total of 16 novels are set in this town under the byline of Code Red.<br /><br />My first Code Red experience, Next of Kin, was a winner.  The story begins as emergency room nurse, Jackie Kellison, zooms down the Pacific Coast Highway in her new car on her way to work.  At the same time, patrol cop Casey Guthrie is on his way home after a shift.  Casey witnesses a car accident and subsequent pile-up ahead on the road.  Jackie's new car gets totaled, but she's okay, and she and Casey help the other victims.  One victim is just a baby, and needs medical attention quickly.  Casey and Jackie rush her to the hospital, and discover a strong and sudden attraction to one another.  Fueled by this attraction, they begin working together to restore the baby to her family.  Something is hinky with the family, though, and Jackie and Casey keep searching for clues to the truth.  The author does a great job of keeping the story moving, regularly dropping clues along the way.  The romance is more of an aside than the main story, but that was fine by me.  I don't need pages and pages of longing looks and pounding pulses.  The mystery is what this story was all about.  There was an unexplained explosion that may have been a red herring, or could relate to another Code Red story.  Guess I'll have to read the other 15 books to find out.  If this book is any indication of the quality of the rest of the series, that will be no hardship.	2005-05-10
US	24860454	R3A35ZC7PS57SK	0373227981	521569900	Midnight Island Sanctuary (Harlequin Intrigue No. 798) (Eclipse series)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Spooky Fun!	Having been out of the loop concerning trends in the romance publishing industry, I found myself highly pleased with the publisher's ability to give its readers what they want.  It's a lot edgier than the stories I cut my teeth on 20 years ago when I first picked one up.  One of not only Harlequin's Intrigue line, which offers stories of intense romantic suspense, but also part of Intrigue's \\"Eclipse\\" subline, this book fits neatly into the \\"gaslight\\" genre Harlequin intended.<br /><br />Like the movie Gaslight, this book stars a somewhat frail heroine undergoing a series of strange nighttime happenstances that call her sanity into question.  I never got impatient with the heroine, however, whose delicacy is related to a violent attack and being on the run from a psychotic killer, and she handles herself well under the circumstances.  The setting for this book could not have been more perfect for a pre-Halloween read.  Our heroine seeks refuge on a secluded island in the frigid Northeast, in a huge castle peopled with odd characters caught up in their own hidden agendas.  The castle boasts a network of secret passageways and a pair of vigilant Rottweillers, and when it isn't raining and sleeting, a chill wind blows dry leaves in corners.  Though the outcome was highly predictable, getting there was page-turning, evocative fun.	2005-05-10
US	24860454	R58SA20JB68X	0385338090	955347785	Shopaholic & Sister (Shopaholic Series)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Becky Does It Again!	Somehow, Sophie Kinsella has managed to write the same book four times and keep it fresh.  The story begins on the honeymoon of Luke and Becky Brandon.  Becky is up to her old tricks, shopping everywhere she goes.  After traveling on her honeymoon for 10 months, she misses home, so she and Luke decide to go home early to surprise everyone.  Only nothing goes as Becky planned.  Her best friend has found a new pal and her parents are acting strange.  Plus, Luke has turned back into a workaholic.  Becky's parents finally give her news-she has a long-lost sister.  Becky quickly starts planning sleepovers and shopping sprees, but when she meets her sister, Jess, she turns out to be serious and frugal.  Eventually, they clash and have a big fight, and then a bargain Becky struck over a handbag causes a rift with her and Luke.  Left with nowhere else to turn, Becky hunts down her sister in the village where she lives and manages to wake up the town.  Jess rebuffs all of Becky's attempts to reconcile, until Becky follows her up a mountain and sustains a fall.  The women end up finding some common ground before being rescued.  Becky also reconciles with her best friend and her husband, and everything turns up roses.  The book is a lot of fun, just like the others, full of laugh-out-loud moments, and a hint of more to come.  A very fun read for a lazy afternoon.	2005-05-10
US	24860454	R3JYJZRRYU64F6	0060584009	77217173	Metro Girl (Alex Barnaby Series #1)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Not Plum, But a Plum	Janet Evanovich kicks off a new series with this book, written in her signature style.  The characters are different, but anyone who loves Stephanie Plum novels should warm to this one.  The only thing lacking in this book is familiarity, which should be firmly in place by the end of the next Metro Girl book.  The heroine, Alexandra \\"Barney\\" Barnaby, leaves her job as an insurance adjuster in Baltimore when she gets a disturbing call from her brother, last seen in Miami.  Alex heads for Florida, where she meets NASCAR driver Sam Hooker, whose boat was \\"borrowed\\" by Alex's brother Bill before his disappearance.  They wind up teaming up to search for Bill, and outrun the bad guys.  The chase leads them through the Keys and into Cuban waters and back with plenty of classic Evanovich mishaps along the way for laughs.  It's a fun start to a new series with a nicely wrapped ending.  I'm looking forward to Metro Girl's next adventure.	2005-05-10
US	24860454	R12R47DSLWK6J6	077832107X	185622859	Charlie All Night (MIRA)	Books	2	8	15	N	N	Ho Hum Crusie	One of Crusie's earlier efforts, her writing style was firmly in place even back then, but this book failed to engage my interest.  It begins when Allie McGuffey's boyfriend, who has dumped her for someone younger and thinner, also tells her she's being replaced as his radio morning show producer.  Allie has instead been moved to the 10 pm to 2 am slot.  This is where the story lost me.  Because of all the years I worked in radio, I knew it was ludicrous for a night show in a small town to have a producer.  Additionally, there were far too many mature, sober people calling the station in the middle of the night, controversy was too quickly sparked, and ratings periods were apparently calculated weekly.  None of this comes close to reality, so I was probably too busy arching a brow over that to truly immerse myself in the rest.  The hero, Charlie Tenniel, is the star of the 10-2 slot and looking into allegations of a drug ring at the radio station.  He manages to solve the mystery just at the deadline, at the very same time he realizes he wants to stay and marry Allie.  This book does get points because our protagonists fall quickly into bed, and then stop over a bet.  Charlie ignores Allie for awhile, but then decides he wants more than just sex in their relationship, and they start to develop real intimacy.  Die hard Crusie fans should love this book but I, for one, am glad she has honed her craft over time.	2005-05-10
US	24860454	R1XVZMBG85UQHE	0671525832	187406427	Someone to Watch Over Me: A Novel (The Paradise series)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Decent Enough	Like other Judith McNaught novels I've read, this one takes awhile to get going, but once it does it cruises along nicely.  It begins with a near tragedy on a snowy road as Broadway actress Leigh Manning crashes her car.  Leigh had been on her way to meet her husband of 13 years, Logan Manning.  Logan, eager to show off a now mountain property he had bought, urged Leigh to meet him there.  While following Logan's unorthodox directions, Leigh gets caught in a blizzard and goes off the road.  When Leigh awakens in the hospital, no one has heard from Logan.  Enter the police.  Seasoned detective Schrader and young, attractive Samantha Littleton are soon joined by legendary Mitchell McCord.  As Leigh flashes back to a party, we also add the notorious Michael Valente to the mix.  When Logan Manning turns up dead, the police suspect his widow and Mr. Valente, who go way back.  The investigation into Logan Manning's murder turns up startling information for Leigh, and she quickly forgets her dead husband and switches her affection to Michael Valente.  The police continue to investigate him, and find out he's been harassed for years by the department.  This revelation causes them to finally look at other suspects, several months into their investigation, and then they come up with the real killer in about five minutes.  Not amazingly, at the same time, the real killer snaps and goes after Leigh.  Michael rescues her, of course, and they get married and live happily ever after.  And so do a couple of cops.  Not a bad read, for someone who prefers melodrama to a fast-moving plot.  The real killer would have been obvious, had the person not been relegated to a minuscule, almost invisible role.  Still, it wraps up okay in the end.	2005-05-10
US	24860454	R2RWLLO0HWKFQ4	0425196003	296302441	Hot Legs	Books	2	9	13	N	N	Lukewarm	Though this is romantic erotica, and while some readers may enjoy graphic sex described in crude terms, it still could have been done with more panache.  I realize this is fantasy, but even when I make believe, my fiction needs to stay in the realm of reality.  Our heroine, Cassie, is a curator in a Minneapolis museum.  She is recently divorced, struggling to make ends meet after her greedy ex took nearly everything.  She's grossly underpaid, and takes harassment from her boss, her ex, and every member of her family.  Enter our well-endowed hero, Bobby, a bounty hunter whose specialty is retrieving stolen artwork.  He comes to town to search for a painting stolen from Cassie's museum, and Cassie picks up extra cash assisting him.  Even though these characters are mature, educated adults, the moment they lay eyes on each other, their minds focus directly on primal sex.  In short order, meek little Cassie is telling overly rich and successful Bobby just exactly what to do to her, and they burn up the sheets having countless rounds of raunchy sex worthy of Penthouse magazine.  We have to endure several pages of this before the story finally starts moving, but then, this book isn't about the story.  The author actually seems to have some talent, when not referring to body parts in locker room terms, but it's hard to forgive the way the heroine is a weak victim, except in bed.  She has a host of problems that are all solved by a hero who's just too invincible.  He gets her a raise, solidifies her position at the museum, punches out her ex, and professes his undying love, in between marathon bouts of incredible sex.  Shyeah, right.	2005-05-10
US	24860454	R26OCD85B0YBAV	0399152059	902551352	Northern Lights	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Awesome!	Nora outdoes herself again.  Just when it seems she has reached her peak and her work is in danger of becoming too predictable, she manages to break new ground, even while wrapping us in the familiar comfort of her prose.  This book is a little different, focusing almost exclusively on the thoughts and inner turmoils of hero, and barley scratching the surface of the heroine.  Nora has made the hero the focal point of several previous novels, but her other heroines have shown more of themselves than this one, who is so private we barely get a glimpse of who she is.<br /><br />What we know of Meg Galloway is that she's a tough, intensely private woman who flies bush planes for a living, lives five miles outside a tiny town in the Alaskan interior, alone with two dogs, and callously goes through men like Kleenex.  Meg is rather more up front about sex than any other known woman, except perhaps for Sex and the City's Samantha.  She's comfortable in that, which is okay, but we could have used more insight to explain why she is this way, since it is a trifle unusual.  Similarly, Meg's volatile relationship with her mother is also not deeply explored.<br /><br />Instead, we are plunged deep into the psyche of our hero, Nate Burke, recent arrival to Lunacy, Alaska, population 504.  Nate arrives in Lunacy by way of the Baltimore PD, which he quit after his partner was killed in an alley.  Nate is in a deep depression, written sympathetically, but without any obvious heartstring tugs.  Instead of trying to make us cry over Nate's sadness, we are shown his efforts to fight it off and move on to better things.<br /><br />After several weeks of busting up fights and corralling drunks, Nate suddenly has no time to brood on his past when, after having gone missing 16 years before, Meg's father's murdered body is discovered in an ice cave 10,000 feet up a mountain.  Another murder occurs in town, fixed to look like a suicide, and Nate believes the same killer is responsible.  While going through his daily small town cop routine, Nate singlemindedly pursues his murder investigation, tracking down clues and finding dead ends.  Just when it seems the investigation has gone on long enough, a final damning clue lands in his hands and Nate figures it all out.<br /><br />Although Nate's collar of the murderer is a shade too dramatic, an obvious showdown to give the reader one last page-turning thrill, it plays out okay.  This is a good, entertaining rnead filled not only with twisting, turning suspense, it gives a very engaging picture of life in a small town at the foot of the mountains in the Alaska wild.  The descriptions of everything from a blizzard to the spring thaw take the reader right there, making one long to take a vacation to the far north.  This book definitely gets an A.his daily small town cop routine, Nate singlemindedly pursues his murder investigation, tracking down clues and finding dead ends.  Just when it seems the investigation has gone on long enough, a final damning clue lands in his hands and Nate figures it all out. <br />Although Nate's collar of the murderer is a shade too dramatic, an obvious showdown to give the reader one last page-turning thrill, it plays out okay.  This is a good, entertaining rnead filled not only with twisting, turning suspense, it gives a very engaging picture of life in a small town at the foot of the mountains in the Alaska wild.  The descriptions of everything from a blizzard to the spring thaw take the reader right there, making one long to take a vacation to the far north.  This book definitely gets an A. <br />	2005-05-10
US	24860454	R14GXSYCZ8GY3R	044922239X	688943404	Risk	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Always A Winner	Most Dick Francis novels begin with a strange happenstance stumbled onto by an intrepid hero who soon finds himself beat up and bound, fighting to survive, before he solves the crime and gets away with the girl.  This one began with a hero who wakes to find himself locked up, without knowing why.  The hero, Roland Britten, is an accountant who rides racehorses as an amateur.  During his incarceration, he goes over his entire life trying to figure out who locked him up.  He finds he's been put in a sail locker on a boat, and manages a daring escape onto the island of Minorca, where a spinster named Hilary Pinlock helps him evade his captors.  Hilary proves to be a valuable ally later in the story, as well.  Upon returning to England, Roland begins an investigation into a few embezzlers his testimony had sent to prison, as well as returning to work and trying to work out some puzzling discrepancies in the accounts of some clients.  After riding in another weekend race, Roland is kidnapped again for several days, and then mysteriously let go.  The location of his prison provides a few more clues to his captors, and Roland keeps digging.  He meets a trainer's daughter who catches his fancy, and spends time romancing her while unraveling the mystery.  When he finally figures out who kidnapped him and why, he stages a meeting with the culprits, who have friends he hadn't counted on.  Roland finds himself bound again while the villains escape.  He is eventually rescued by his love interest and Hilary Pinlock, and explains the whole scenario, wrapping up the story.  Like most Dick Francis novels, this one is peopled with colorful, English characters that liven up the darker violence and mystery.  This one didn't disappoint at any turn.	2005-05-10
US	24860454	RCDQH1YU6JJG3	0373612915	201434614	Aftershocks (Code Red)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Pretty Darned Good	Apparently, the talent behind Courage Bay is as unpredictable as its weather.  After slogging through a couple of duds, I hit another winner.  Nancy Warren knows how to combine all the ingredients for a good romance novel.  The romance kicked off with a bang, moved along at a reasonable pace, and had a good resolution.  It begins with Mayor Patrick O'Shea lusting after his beautiful assistant, Briana Bliss.  But Briana isn't what she seems.  Patrick is a fairly new mayor who beat out a city councilman because someone leaked a 20-year-old sex scandal about the councilman just before the election.  Unbeknownst to Patrick O'Shea, the councilman blames him for the leak, and he wants revenge.  He talks his niece, Briana, into applying for the job of the mayor's assistant so she can lure him into making inappropriate advances and then tarnish his reputation.  Briana is very close to her uncle, and believes the press lied about him, so she readily agrees to his plan to take down his rival.  Except that the mayor, despite his obvious attraction to Briana, behaves impeccably.  He's also a pretty good mayor.  At the beginning of the story, Patrick and Briana get stuck in an elevator when an aftershock strikes Courage Bay.  While they're stuck in the dark, Briana seduces Patrick and, armed with a recorder, tapes the whole thing.  She regrets it almost immediately.  She's falling for the mayor and isn't so sure her uncle Cecil's plans are a good thing.  After being rescued, Briana discovers her recorder missing, and it naturally winds up in Patrick's hands.  Over the next few weeks, Patrick and Briana's feelings for each other deepen and she finds herself being integrated into his life when she winds up caring for his children in an emergency.  She also falls for the children, and they for her.  She feels increasingly pressed to tell Patrick who she really is, but waits until she can complete her investigation into her uncle's sex scandal.  When she finally finds the truth, including how the story leaked, she goes to tell Patrick.  Of course, Patrick had stumbled across the tape of them in the elevator that very day and became suspicious.  He isn't interested in listening to Briana's explanations.  The next day, she starts packing to leave Courage Bay.  But, with some interference from Patrick's sister, they straighten everything out and start planning a wedding.<br /><br />This book dealt with a widower with two children who missed his wife.  However, he did not cling annoyingly to her memory or spend an inordinate amount of time lamenting her loss.  He moves on.  At the beginning of the story, he realizes he must finally be ready emotionally because of his attraction to Briana.  It's nice to see the issue raised and handled, but not beat to death.  On the flip side, our heroine has a lot on her mind, but she doesn't dither and wring her hands.  She takes action and tries to do the right thing, even when it's hard.  The ending, too, was well woven and moved me to tears, which is rare.  Though devoid of the action and suspense of some of the Code Red novels, this one didn't need them.  It was fine just the way it was.luding how the story leaked, she goes to tell Patrick.  Of course, Patrick had stumbled across the tape of them in the elevator that very day and became suspicious.  He isn't interested in listening to Briana's explanations.  The next day, she starts packing to leave Courage Bay.  But, with some interference from Patrick's sister, they straighten everything out and start planning a wedding. <br />This book dealt with a widower with two children who missed his wife.  However, he did not cling annoyingly to her memory or spend an inordinate amount of time lamenting her loss.  He moves on.  At the beginning of the story, he realizes he must finally be ready emotionally because of his attraction to Briana.  It's nice to see the issue raised and handled, but not beat to death.  On the flip side, our heroine has a lot on her mind, but she doesn't dither and wring her hands.  She takes action and tries to do the right thing, even when it's hard.  The ending, too, was well woven and moved me to tears, which is rare.  Though devoid of the action and suspense of some of the Code Red novels, this one didn't need them.  It was fine just the way it was. <br />	2005-05-10
US	24860454	R14CBQNKMHZ3NF	0373612842	607801145	Spontaneous Combustion	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Good Stuff	My third venture into Courage Bay in the Code Red series was about a female firefighter.  The story begins when Shannon O'Shea gets trapped in a warehouse trying to rescue a dog from a fire.  She, in turn, is rescued by a mysterious man in a silver fireproof suit.  No one else sees him, and some people act disbelieving that he even exists, but when Shannon meets John, the tall, sexy new guy at the fire station, he seems familiar and she believes it's him.  He denies it when she asks, but she's still suspicious.  She and John are very attracted to each other, and she agrees when he asks her out.  The two waste little time in hitting the sheets, but Shannon finds out John has a few secrets when she goes through his wallet while he sleeps.  Turns out John isn't a firefighter, but an FBI agent tracking smugglers related to the warehouse fire, and he and Shannon team up to get the bad guys.  John almost leaves town afterwards, but then shows up in Shannon's back yard and proposes.  She says yes, of course, and everything is peachy.<br /><br />Though the end was a bit sudden, I enjoyed the book.  Though any form of action was barely on the periphery in this story, it was well-written, focusing on the romance.  It was refreshing that the hero never ran from his attraction to Shannon, instead asking her out on a date like a real guy.  Shannon herself was easy to love.  She is tall, fit, strong, beautiful, and smart.  She's not hyper-educated, content as a trained fireman, but she's no dummy.  Most of all, I loved how she didn't take crap from anybody, but was nice as could be.  I wish I could be so free of hang-ups, but I guess we're due a well-adjusted heroine.  In all, this was a satisfying romance.	2005-05-10
US	24860454	RJNQJCK5AU7VM	0060598840	983647982	Love Overboard	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Hmmmm...	Another of Evanovich's early romance novel writing efforts, it was obvious she was beginning to chafe at the confines of romance writing.  The romance in this novel seems a bit by-the-book and doesn't blend well with the characters and action.  The book just isn't smooth.<br /><br />It begins with pirate descendant Ivan Rasmussen standing on the deck of his schooner when he sees Stephanie Lowe go tumbling down a hill.  She's on her way to his boat to work as ship's cook in place of her cousin Lucy, who's getting married.  Stephanie has to cook on a woodstove, and has a few mishaps, but rallies okay.  Ivan watches her with bemusement and a growing attraction.  Throughout their working cruise, Stephanie and Ivan flirt a lot.  When the cruise is over, Ivan winds up renting a room in Stephanie's house, which she bought from him before the story began.  Melody, another character they meet on the boat, also comes to stay and work at the inn the house has become.  The house is supposedly haunted, and a corpse keeps showing up and disappearing.  Stephanie falls into Ivan's arms-and bed.  Of course, they have problems, but this is a romance novel, so everything works out in the end.<br /><br />As usual, Evanovich's characters were zany, had funny things happen to them, and delivered humorous dialogue.  The romance was sprinkled evenly throughout, but still didn't quite gel with everything else.  Not her best book, but I didn't hate it.	2005-05-10
US	24860454	R18A226Y9HBJDM	0440237610	461226634	Code Name: Princess	Books	1	6	9	N	N	Snore City	I yawned most of the way through this one.  It was hard to feel any empathy for the heroine, Jess, who made a career out of being a wuss.  Jess just can't get over being locked in a garden shed when she was 16, so she suffers from claustrophobia.  Had Jess been repeatedly locked in a dark cellar as a child, I'd have cared.  Once at 16 makes me feel like yelling, \\"Get over it!\\"  Our hero, Hawk, is a Navy SEAL on assignment to protect a magic koala bear.  He meets Jess when he finds her in his shower.  Jess is a hotel inspector who changed rooms as a staff test and wound up in Hawk's.  Hawk thinks she's an agent.  Jess and Hawk get stuck in an elevator on their way out of the hotel, and to help ease Jess' cloying claustrophobia, Hawk willingly gives in to her suggestion that they have sex.  At this point, the author seems to have run out of fresh ideas, so she apparently dug some old Harlequin romances out of her attic and took inspiration, if not whole paragraphs, from them.  I like strong, independent, aggressive heroines, and Jess was a throwback to 80's romances complete with looking up to Hawk like a big, strong man and bleakly realizing those two hours in the elevator are all she'll ever have of him.  From the moment Jess and Hawk emerge from the elevator, Hawk spends the rest of the book trying to get rid of her.  He's a Navy SEAL on a dangerous mission tracking bioterrorists and he wants her to be safe.  Lost in a maze of her sad introspections, Jess always manages to be in the right place at the wrong time, and always manages to be in the middle of Hawk's mission.  Things finally wrap up when the missing koala bear turns up in the same garden shed Jess gets locked in on some crazy lady's property.  Hawk and Jess shoot a few bad guys and then Hawk leaves to finish his assignment.  We meet Jess again four months later, still pining for Hawk until the day he shows up, and then they ride off into the sunset.<br /><br />Our hero, Hawk, is an interesting, cool guy, but we don't get to know him well enough.  He's too busy being a SEAL.<br /><br />This book was a disastrous marriage between an old-fashioned pulp romance and a chick spy thriller.  The author simply doesn't have the skill to intertwine the two, and needs perhaps to take a few lessons on the art of the romance novel.  Her ideals are dusty.we don't get to know him well enough.  He's too busy being a SEAL. <br />This book was a disastrous marriage between an old-fashioned pulp romance and a chick spy thriller.  The author simply doesn't have the skill to intertwine the two, and needs perhaps to take a few lessons on the art of the romance novel.  Her ideals are dusty. <br />	2005-05-10
US	24860454	R1UN4SS8I8XH35	0373612850	428727266	Line Of Fire	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Code Red:  It's a Hit	Another Harlequin Code Red, this is about chief of detectives Adam Guthrie.  He's the perfect mate for attorney Faith Lawton, a good-hearted, highly polished defense powerhouse who keeps demolishing police evidence in court.  Casually acquainted through work, Adam and Faith get close quickly when a sniper's fire narrowly misses them and kills her client outside the courthouse.  Following his attraction to Faith, Adam offers her protection.  On impulse, Faith seduces him and they enjoy an intimate relationship.  This author does a nice job of developing the romance along the way, with the action as more of a backdrop.  The suspense is short-lived and the shooter quickly identified, but he doesn't get apprehended until the dangerous conclusion.  This book managed to combine the essential romance ingredients with flying bullets.  With its likeable downtown characters and setting, it was a great foil for the outdoorsy, high octane suspense of my first Code Red novel.  If the others in the series are as good as the first two, I'll be plowing through them in no time.	2005-05-10
US	24860454	RJ2HNV50XSP6V	0743271556	632350853	The Christmas Thief: A Novel	Books	3	4	5	N	N	A Good Collaboration	The annual Christmas collaboration of the Higgins Clarks is just like their others; a lighthearted romp starring PI Regan Reilly and her family, plus a few other wacky characters.  The story begins when swindler Packy Noonan gets out of jail, plotting to recover a flask of diamonds he has hidden in a tree.  Packy's accomplices, the Como twins, Benny and JoJo, could have starred as the crooks in the Home Alone movies.  At the same time, everyone in Vermont is all aflutter over a local tree being chosen to grace Rockefeller Center, and the tree's owners wax nostalgic over its planting.  Regan, fianc&eacute; Jack, parents Luke and Nora, and friend Alvirah Meehan are joined by Alvirah's friend Opal, who lost millions of lottery winnings to one of Packy Noonan's scams, for a weekend in Vermont, where they plan to attend the ceremonial cutting down of the Rockefeller Center tree.  Except it's the same tree where Packy stashed his diamonds, and he makes off with the tree first, hiding it in a barn.  A rival tree farmer who had been planning to sabotage the tree gets caught up in the scam when he finds the diamonds first.  Carol Higgins Clark fans will enjoy this lighthearted farce, though Regan Reilly and her detective skills play only a peripheral role.  The book is full of goofy characters with odd quirks, but does have a touch of Mary Higgins Clark's skill with weaving suspense.  For a fun little holiday novel, this one wasn't bad.	2005-05-10
US	24860454	RZFNN3ELLEJK2	0373612893	668692924	Nightwatch	Books	1	4	5	N	N	Look Away!	It hasn't taken me this long to finish a book since my age hit double digits, and all because watching paint dry would have been more interesting.  The most exciting part of the whole book was the first chapter because there was a big storm and a busy night in the ER.  Dr. Rachel Browne is on duty and delivers the baby of a young woman who wanders into the ER.  The baby is tiny and has many health concerns, and the mother dies.  She just happened to have been the estranged stepdaughter of ER chief Guy Giroux.  Guy, who has been Rachel's boss for some time, goes to question her about his stepdaughter's death, and the two doctors are immediately attracted.  We endure the requisite \\"we can't date I'm your boss\\" objection before the real issue lumbers in:  Rachel is afraid to feel.  Yup, that's a new one-not.  And clumsily executed.  There may be someone somewhere who cares about the angst suffered by two overworked doctors whose work always precluded their social lives until one day love drifted through the cracks, but I doubt it.  The story limped along on the premise that our doctors were searching for the man responsible for the young woman's death, but all the truly interesting things were happening somewhere else, and our heroes found out about it later.  Guy was too busy quitting his job so he could adopt his stepdaughter's unhealthy baby, and Rachel was too busy tiptoeing around her wittle feewings and trying to decide if dating Guy would be more fun than having no social life at all.  Finally she got over it and took Guy up on his offer of a relationship so we could put this story to sleep, a condition it perpetually put me in.  This is not the same Courage Bay where Jackie and Casey rescued a baby in a car accident and I couldn't put the book down, and I miss it.	2005-05-10
US	24860454	R35F4N8PM6KU84	0312971540	132522712	Monsoon (Courtney Family Adventures)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Absolutely Awesome!	This book was not only a gripping story unfolding among rich characters, it is also a wonderful depiction of the 17th Century.  Smith is obviously knowledgeable about tall ships and the sailing of them, as well as being able to draw vivid pictures of people, places, and cultures of the time.  From the drawing rooms and dirty alleys of London and the dandies and doxies who people them to newly captured slaves on the Fever Coast, devout muslims at prayer, bedoins entering a friendly camp, sadistic eunuchs, and small children, he brings the Old World to life.  I was there on the deck of the Seraph as she sailed south from London, there in the caravan that wound across the desert; I felt real fear for Tom and Dorian when they took reckless chances and confronted the enemy.  I turned a wry lip at the incompetent surgeon who wiped his instruments on his sleeve, yet was well-trusted by everyone, because that was all the farther medicine had gone in the 1600's.  Some of our most-loved characters suffer and die, and the tragedy touches the other characters deeply, yet they shrug off their emotions quickly enough and get on with life, not batting an eye when someone suddenly dies.  These and other little touches are what take us not only into visual splendor but actually transport us back in time, complete with vibrations, sounds, and smells.  Most of all, we feel the slow, inexorable passage of time as we move at the pace of an era that had no electricity, communication, or combustion engines.  The pace of the story varies from time to time in such a way that no particular sequence drags along or goes too quickly.  Though a long, engrossing read, I dreaded turning the last page of this epic masterpiece.	2005-05-10
US	24860454	R17ATNT2YLMM8S	0446343455	293791358	Tourist Season	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Debut Delight	We enter the zany world of the Florida crime novel at its inception with this Carl Hiaasen debut.  In later works by Hiaasen, Leonard, Dorsey, and others, there is a sly world-weariness, a black humor tickled by the far-gone condition of the South Florida mentality.  This book was written on the cusp of the cynical hilarity to follow.<br /><br />Tourist Season begins when a typical tourist, an aging Shriner, disappears off a beach.  Next, the body of a prominent Miami man is found stuffed in a suitcase, covered in Coppertone, lower legs missing, and a rubber alligator lodged in his throat.  At the same time, columnist Skip Wiley of the Miami Sun disappears.  Investigator and ex-reporter Brian Keyes gets pulled in when Skip's girlfriend Jenna, who happens to be Brian's ex-girlfriend, expresses concern over Skip's disappearance.  On a tip from Jenna, Brian finds Skip and his band of revolutionaries in the Everglades, where they feed an elderly woman to a crocodile and give Brian a suitcase full of evidence linking them to the other murder and missing tourist.  Brian gets stabbed by Jesus Bernal, the Cuban part of Skip's organization, when he attacks football-star-turned-terrorist Viceroy Wilson in an attempt to save the woman they feed to the alligator.  The group's fourth member, Tommy Tigertail, a Native American, patches Brian up and sends him back to Miami.  Thus begins a game of cat and mouse between environmental wacko Skip Wiley on his crusade to drive out tourists and retirees, and Brian Keyes, the editor of the Sun, and the cops.  It involves Shriners, a level-headed beauty queen, a crazy Cuban bomber, an irresponsible femme fatale, and a clueless, unfortunate reporter.  It was also the beginning of Hiassen's liberal, environmentalist point of view being expressed through violent yet fun to read literature, though he condemns the violence here, rather than embracing it as later Florida crime capers would do.  Though Hiaasen took writing a lot more seriously back then, and takes pains to express his love for newspaper writing, this book was still a lot of fun to read.  It didn't quite cross the threshold of the Florida crime caper genre we've come to love, but it opened the door for it, and was a good novel on its own merits as it skillfully broke new ground for novels to come.hen, and takes pains to express his love for newspaper writing, this book was still a lot of fun to read.  It didn't quite cross the threshold of the Florida crime caper genre we've come to love, but it opened the door for it, and was a good novel on its own merits as it skillfully broke new ground for novels to come. <br />	2005-05-10
US	24860454	R102N1R0463DOM	0743412621	789567455	The Second Time Around: A Novel	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Readable Enough	Just what you'd expect from Mary Higgins Clark, a bland main character takes us through the twists and turns of a complicated mystery.  The heroine, Carley DeCarlo, gets pulled into the intrigue when her stepsister Lynn, a woman she barely knows and instinctively dislikes, calls her in distress.  Lynn's husband Nick, the head of a pharmaceutical company developing a cancer vaccine, has disappeared, along with millions of dollars of company funds.  Carly, a journalist, begins digging into Nick's disappearance for a story.  She finds that while Nick is universally hated by his company's investors who lost money with his disappearance, those who knew him well swear by his character.  One of the disgruntled investors is a man who lost his wife in a car accident the day she learned he lost all their money in the investment.  Mentally unstable, he begins offing those around him, putting our heroine and her stepsister in his sights.  The body count rises as people Carly talks to for her story start turning up missing or dead.  Eventually, Carly figures it all out right around the time our mentally unstable guy shows up.  The villains turn out to be the most obvious choices off the list of suspects, and the tinge of romance thrown in is somewhat awkward and unnecessary, but overall, a compelling read that kept me turning the pages.  Not the best of Clark's work, but a solid piece.	2005-05-10
US	24860454	R9X61UXUL8M92	0425198480	545470879	Sacred Stone (The Oregon Files)	Books	4	8	13	N	N	Clive the Mighty	Clive Cussler retains his title as the grandmaster of adventure fiction in the second installment of the Oregon Files, stories of the adventures of the covert organization, the Corporation.  While the plot was more complex than in Golden Buddha, the first Oregon Files book, we have less of a glimpse into who our protagonists are.  The book is nonstop, high-adrenaline fun, however, as our Corporation friends anchor of Reykjavik, Iceland, on assignment to protect the Emir of Qatar, when a call comes in from the United States government.  A highly radioactive meteorite has been discovered in Greenland, and the US wants to hire the Corporation to steal it before it can fall into the wrong hands.  Juan Cabrillo, the Corporation's chairman, takes off to collect the meteorite while the others protect the emir.  Things heat up quickly when a team of assassins gets the meteorite before Cabrillo, leading the Corporation on a chase across the northern seas, Scotland, England, and eventually Saudi Arabia.  Simultaneously, a team of Arab terrorists kidnaps the emir, and the Corporation goes in for the rescue.  Turns out there are two teams of bad guys this time:  one wanting the meteorite to kill in the name of Islam, and another out to destroy Islam.  It's fun to watch the story unravel with high action and intricate plotting as the Corporation coordinates its efforts with the US and other governments, leaving us feeling like we're privy to exciting, classified information kept secret from the rest of the world.  Filled with Cussler's trademark similes and good humor, there's a slight Dirk Pitt flavor, though the Oregon Files have a stamp all their own.  This third series of Cussler's is off and running.  I did note there was no mention of Juan Cabrillo's prosthetic leg in this book, and I'm left to wonder if it's going to fade into nonexistence in future novels.  I guess we'll see.	2005-05-10
US	24860454	R3A5V1E5XVRPEX	0345476255	397813117	To Die For (Blair Mallory)	Books	1	14	21	N	N	Horrible!	[...]  The story begins, rather chattily, in a faux-Evanovich or -Kinsella style, with &uuml;ber-fit, ex-cheerleading, health club owner Blair Mallory.  Blair wouldn't have been so bad, though, had she come equipped with a spine.  Because she can do backflips, Blair thinks she's tough.  Oh, and because she bought a health club with her ex-husband's money, too.  Blair is on her way home for the night when she sees a crazy club member who's been copying her waiting in the parking lot.  When Blair hears a gunshot, she gets scared and goes back inside to call the cops.  They arrive with Lieutenant Wyatt Bloodsworth in the lead.  Blair and Wyatt dated three times two years past, but Wyatt cut and run, so I felt like slapping the stuffing out of Blair for jumping in bed with him without so much as even a token protest.  Repeatedly.  Of course, any lame protest Blair put forth was manhandled into submission by the idiot ape of a hero.  He grabs things out of her hands, forces himself on her sexually (but she never resists!), and manhandles her whenever he feels like it.  And she takes it and sleeps with him, and then complains about it.  I started hoping her would-be killer would succeed.<br />This book operates on the premise that all women, even if successful, are weak and decorous (and probably owe it all to a man) and, as such, shouldn't raise a protest when a big, strong man ignores her feelings.  He knows best, after all.  If she gets mad, he can just slip her into bed, because even if she says no to sex, she really wants it.<br />Gag me.<br />If I didn't consider burning literature, even horribly bad literature, an unforgivable sin, I'd rip this one to bits and use it for kindling.  It sucked.<br />The several attempts at the heroine's life culminated in an avoidable accident-except our heroine is helpless.  The killer, who offs Blair's copycat early on, is caught early in the story, but someone keeps trying to kill Blair.  (Who could blame him?)  There are utterly no suspects, so a killer is hastily concocted at the end.  Not exactly a tightly woven thriller, of which Linda Howard is capable.  Unfortunately, this book is not only her worst, it's the worst book I've read in years.ler is hastily concocted at the end.  Not exactly a tightly woven thriller, of which Linda Howard is capable.  Unfortunately, this book is not only her worst, it's the worst book I've read in years.	2005-05-10
US	24860454	RWO3D78O6G5U4	0060598891	512774790	The Rocky Road to Romance	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Fun Even Way Back When	This was a lot of fun for a long-time Evanovich fan to read.  One of her earlier novels re-released, it bears some of her hallmarks with just enough restraint to show she wouldn't be a mere romance novelist for long.  This book was like a trial ground for Grandma Mazur and Bob the dog, as well as a couple rough hews into Morelli, from the Stephanie Plum novels.  It begins when Daisy, our overworked heroine, talks her gorgeous boss, Steve Crow, into letting her do the traffic reports at his radio station.  As soon as the two of them are confined in a car together, attraction flares.  One day, en route to a story, Daisy accidentally aids the police in apprehending a suspect, and suddenly her life is in danger.  Steve decides she needs his protection as much as possible and tells her he has a dog.  This causes him to have to stop at an animal shelter to get a dog, then to buy a big SUV, and then a house with a yard.  He also hires her a guard, an old lady named Elsie who packs a big gun in her purse.  Daisy soon gives in to her attraction to Steve, who wants to marry her.  She's scared to make that leap and asks for space, but she comes back to him, ready to make some changes in her life.  It is easy to see that Janet Evanovich was always a talented author, and this effort, though not as quick and quirky as her later novels, lacks the old-fashioned stiltedness that many of the early works of other best-selling authors have.  It will be fun to read her next re-issue, not only to see her talent progress, but because it was firmly in place in the beginning.  We'll now have a new Evanovich fix every few months, between Plum, Metro Girl, and her reissues.  Life is good.	2005-05-10
US	24860454	RX7SA15BRRS7E	037322799X	453284901	Undercover Marriage	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Fast-Paced and Hot!	With vividly graphic detail, this book begins with the chilling murder of the heroine's sister.  Our heroine, Eden, is thus drawn into a co-FBI/CIA sting operation on a band of black market baby sellers who murder their unwed mothers.  Our hero, Hunter, is a seasoned CIA operative, and Eden's ex-lover who coldly walked away from her seven years before.  Hunter had been about to go undercover with a female agent to pose as a desperate, baby-hungry couple, but she gets badly wounded while wrapping up another assignment, so the CIA decides putting Eden in her place is their best bet.  Eden and Hunter put on the personae of a rich couple and shack up in a hotel suite where passions of old ignite while they close in on the killers.  The story moves along well enough that I not once found myself rolling my eyes or muttering, \\"Oh, please!\\"  Eden's old resentment toward Hunter for abandoning her in the past melts away the moment they roll in the sheets and, at the same time, Hunter rather suddenly decides to make a drastic career change when he realizes being Eden's husband is suddenly the most important thing in the world.  It would be a better world if forgiving and forgetting were only so easy, but things wrap up nicely in the end, so that is a forgivable sin in this otherwise smoothly crafted story that keeps the action going and the romance hot.	2005-05-10
