US	24945048	R2DP594XZN16AD	0595201245	34344444	The Quest: A Search for the Grail of Immortality	Books	5	12	12	N	N	I returned to Wales a few years ago	I am a originally from Cardiff Wales, but lived in Atlanta Georgia USA during the early 90s. I am a Pagan, so, in the summer of 1991 I found myself at the Gathering of the Tribes in Atlanta Georgia.  This gathering was sponsored by the same people who wrote the Quest and the other books about Tylwyth Teg.  I met Stewart Farrar and many others including Lady Cerridwen of Y tylwyth Teg.<br />When I went to her workshops my questions were many but I knew they certainly could not be all answered there that day. A<BR>few weeks prior to this meeting I questioned my friend about a book he was was reading. &quot;what is it about?&quot; I asked. Its about Welsh Witchcraft&quot; he replied.  Why would you be reading that? I questioned.  He hesitated for a moment and replied it was &quot;for a class my wife is taking before she attends a Gathering&quot;.  <br />&quot;A gathering?&quot; I asked in excitement, and promptly removed the book from his hands and read the introduction and first chapter in a few minutes.  Then I remembered. Seven years earlier I was introduced to Witchcraft by a book my wife had brought home from the library. After reading this book I began the task of working as a solitaire witch, learning what I could from books and experimentation, I could not read enough to satisfy my wanderlust. I toiled to make the old religion mine but found difficulty in finding the true inner explanations for my desires to be a Witch.<br />What is a Witch? I would continue to ask myself as two years went by. <br />Now back to the Gathering.  The &quot;teacher&quot; is discussing the history of her religion, Y Tylwith Teg. By the end of the class I was filled with the desire to learn much more about this old family tradition. I approached the teacher and convinced her that I needed to learn more, she gave me a handful of old and ragged papers held together by a string and placed them in my<BR>hand. &quot; This is the story of Rhuddlwm Gawr, our church leader who brought the religion of Y Tylwith Teg to America .&quot; I looked down, and in my hands I was holding the book &quot;The Quest&quot; by Rhuddlwm Gawr.<br />As I begin to read I found myself in the authors place, living his experiences as he is introduced to the &quot;Fairy Faith&quot;. He introduces me to the history, legends and myths of Y Tylwith Teg. He involves me as he questions his teachers and guides drawing me into the progression of his own personal quest and initiation. Soon I found that many of my answers about what a Witch should be, what their responsibilities in are in modern society, and most importantly discovering my own personal reasons to follow this &quot;path&quot; become fully understood. The author provides carefully selected details of how a Witch in modern times should conduct their lives, live their religion, and begin their own Quest for Love, Knowledge and Power. And how to live a more complete and fulfilling life as they exercise and express<BR>their personal Power in their everyday lives. <br />I highly recommend to any seeker of truth that they pick up the book The Quest, by Rhuddlwm Gawr, and discover the timeless story of mankind's quest to discover the true purpose and meaning of life.	2003-11-22
US	24945048	R2GGGBNY6RONQF	0595258085	223027867	The Word: Welsh Witchcraft, The Grail of Immortality And The Sacred Keys	Books	5	8	10	N	N	The Word is My Teacher	I am a originally from Cardiff Wales, but lived in Atlanta Georgia USA during the early 90s. I am a Pagan, so, in the summer of 1991 I found myself at the Gathering of the Tribes in Atlanta Georgia.  This gathering was sponsored by the same people who wrote the Quest and the other books about Tylwyth Teg.  I met Stewart Farrar and many others including Lady Cerridwen of Y tylwyth Teg.<br />When I went to her workshops my questions were many but I knew they certainly could not be all answered there that day. A<BR>few weeks prior to this meeting I questioned my friend about a book he was was reading. &quot;what is it about?&quot; I asked. Its about Welsh Witchcraft&quot; he replied.  Why would you be reading that? I questioned.  He hesitated for a moment and replied it was &quot;for a class my wife is taking before she attends a Gathering&quot;.  <br />&quot;A gathering?&quot; I asked in excitement, and promptly removed the book from his hands and read the introduction and first chapter in a few minutes.  Then I remembered. Seven years earlier I was introduced to Witchcraft by a book my wife had brought home from the library. After reading this book I began the task of working as a solitaire witch, learning what I could from books and experimentation, I could not read enough to satisfy my wanderlust. I toiled to make the old religion mine but found difficulty in finding the true inner explanations for my desires to be a Witch.<br />What is a Witch? I would continue to ask myself as two years went by. <br />Now back to the Gathering.  The &quot;teacher&quot; is discussing the history of her religion, Y Tylwith Teg. By the end of the class I was filled with the desire to learn much more about this old family tradition. I approached the teacher and convinced her that I needed to learn more, she gave me a handful of old and ragged papers held together by a string and placed them in my<BR>hand. &quot; This is the story of Rhuddlwm Gawr, our church leader who brought the religion of Y Tylwith Teg to America .&quot; I looked down, and in my hands I was holding the book &quot;The Quest&quot; by Rhuddlwm Gawr.<br />As I begin to read I found myself in the authors place, living his experiences as he is introduced to the &quot;Fairy Faith&quot;. He introduces me to the history, legends and myths of Y Tylwith Teg. He involves me as he questions his teachers and guides drawing me into the progression of his own personal quest and initiation. Soon I found that many of my answers about what a Witch should be, what their responsibilities in are in modern society, and most importantly discovering my own personal reasons to follow this &quot;path&quot; become fully understood. The author provides carefully selected details of how a Witch in modern times should conduct their lives, live their religion, and begin their own Quest for Love, Knowledge and Power. And how to live a more complete and fulfilling life as they exercise and express<BR>their personal Power in their everyday lives. <br />Now I have read the Word by the same author.  I highly recommend that any seeker of truth pick up the book The Word, by Rhuddlwm Gawr, and discover the timeless story of mankind's quest to discover the true purpose and meaning of life.<br />The Word is 10 times better than The Quest and I used to think The Quest was the best one I had ever read.<br />Buy The Word	2003-11-22
US	24945048	R2AHNJWIGLCPM5	059523027X	16105856	1: Celtic Crystal Magick: Volume One Stones for Healing	Books	5	9	10	N	N	A great book about Crystal Magick	I am a originally from Cardiff Wales, but lived in Atlanta Georgia USA during the early 90s. I am a Pagan, so, in the summer of 1991 I found myself at the Gathering of the Tribes in Atlanta Georgia.  This gathering was sponsored by the same people who wrote the Quest and the other books about Tylwyth Teg.  I met Stewart Farrar and many others including Lady Cerridwen of Y tylwyth Teg.<br />When I went to her workshops my questions were many but I knew they certainly could not be all answered there that day. A<br />few weeks prior to this meeting I questioned my friend about a book he was was reading. &quot;what is it about?&quot; I asked. Its about Welsh Witchcraft&quot; he replied.  Why would you be reading that? I questioned.  He hesitated for a moment and replied it was &quot;for a class my wife is taking before she attends a Gathering&quot;.<br />&quot;A gathering?&quot; I asked in excitement, and promptly removed the book from his hands and read the introduction and first chapter in a few minutes.  Then I remembered. Seven years earlier I was introduced to Witchcraft by a book my wife had brought home from the library. After reading this book I began the task of working as a solitaire witch, learning what I could from books and experimentation, I could not read enough to satisfy my wanderlust. I toiled to make the old religion mine but found difficulty in finding the true inner explanations for my desires to be a Witch.<br />What is a Witch? I would continue to ask myself as two years went by.<br />Now back to the Gathering.  The &quot;teacher&quot; is discussing the history of her religion, Y Tylwith Teg, and Crystal Magick. By the end of the class I was filled with the desire to learn much more about this old family tradition as it applied to Crystals. I approached the teacher and convinced her that I needed to learn more, she gave me a handful of old and ragged papers held together by a string and placed them in my hand. &quot; This is the story of Rhuddlwm Gawr, our church leader who brought the religion of Y Tylwith Teg to America .&quot; I looked down, and in my hands I was holding the book &quot;The Quest&quot; by Rhuddlwm Gawr.<br />As I begin to read I found myself in the authors place, living his experiences as he is introduced to the &quot;Fairy Faith&quot;. He introduces me to the history, legends and myths of Y Tylwith Teg. He involves me as he questions his teachers and guides drawing me into the progression of his own personal quest and initiation. Soon I found that many of my answers about what a Witch should be, what their responsibilities in are in modern society, and most importantly discovering my own personal reasons to follow this &quot;path&quot; become fully understood. The author provides carefully selected details of how a Witch in modern times should conduct their lives, live their religion, and begin their own Quest for Love, Knowledge and Power. And how to live a more complete and fulfilling life as they exercise and express<br />their personal Power in their everyday lives.<br />Read Celtic Crystal Magick.  You will be pleasantly surprised how much good sense is within this book.Gawr, our church leader who brought the religion of Y Tylwith Teg to America .&quot; I looked down, and in my hands I was holding the book &quot;The Quest&quot; by Rhuddlwm Gawr.<br />As I begin to read I found myself in the authors place, living his experiences as he is introduced to the &quot;Fairy Faith&quot;. He introduces me to the history, legends and myths of Y Tylwith Teg. He involves me as he questions his teachers and guides drawing me into the progression of his own personal quest and initiation. Soon I found that many of my answers about what a Witch should be, what their responsibilities in are in modern society, and most importantly discovering my own personal reasons to follow this &quot;path&quot; become fully understood. The author provides carefully selected details of how a Witch in modern times should conduct their lives, live their religion, and begin their own Quest for Love, Knowledge and Power. And how to live a more complete and fulfilling life as they exercise and express<BR>their personal Power in their everyday lives. <br />Read Celtic Crystal Magick.  You will be pleasantly surprised how much good sense is within this book.	2003-11-22
US	24945048	R2J8XGBR00IHEV	0931760429	281653918	13 Mystical Treasures: The Tools of Welsh Witchcraft	Books	5	8	8	N	N	The Thirteen Treasures	I am a originally from Cardiff Wales, but lived in Atlanta Georgia USA during the early 90s. I am a Pagan, so, in the summer of 1991 I found myself at the Gathering of the Tribes in Atlanta Georgia.  This gathering was sponsored by the same people who wrote the Quest and the other books about Tylwyth Teg.  I met Stewart Farrar and many others including Lady Cerridwen of Y tylwyth Teg.<br />When I went to her workshops my questions were many but I knew they certainly could not be all answered there that day. A<BR>few weeks prior to this meeting I questioned my friend about a book he was was reading. &quot;what is it about?&quot; I asked. Its about Welsh Witchcraft&quot; he replied.  Why would you be reading that? I questioned.  He hesitated for a moment and replied it was &quot;for a class my wife is taking before she attends a Gathering&quot;.  <br />&quot;A gathering?&quot; I asked in excitement, and promptly removed the book from his hands and read the introduction and first chapter in a few minutes.  Then I remembered. Seven years earlier I was introduced to Witchcraft by a book my wife had brought home from the library. After reading this book I began the task of working as a solitaire witch, learning what I could from books and experimentation, I could not read enough to satisfy my wanderlust. I toiled to make the old religion mine but found difficulty in finding the true inner explanations for my desires to be a Witch.<br />What is a Witch? I would continue to ask myself as two years went by. <br />Now back to the Gathering.  The &quot;teacher&quot; is discussing the history of her religion, Y Tylwith Teg. By the end of the class I was filled with the desire to learn much more about this old family tradition. I approached the teacher and convinced her that I needed to learn more, she gave me a handful of old and ragged papers held together by a string and placed them in my<BR>hand. &quot; This is the story of Rhuddlwm Gawr, our church leader who brought the religion of Y Tylwith Teg to America .&quot; I looked down, and in my hands I was holding the book &quot;The Quest&quot; by Rhuddlwm Gawr.<br />As I begin to read I found myself in the authors place, living his experiences as he is introduced to the &quot;Fairy Faith&quot;. He introduces me to the history, legends and myths of Y Tylwith Teg. He involves me as he questions his teachers and guides drawing me into the progression of his own personal quest and initiation. Soon I found that many of my answers about what a Witch should be, what their responsibilities in are in modern society, and most importantly discovering my own personal reasons to follow this &quot;path&quot; become fully understood. The author provides carefully selected details of how a Witch in modern times should conduct their lives, live their religion, and begin their own Quest for Love, Knowledge and Power. And how to live a more complete and fulfilling life as they exercise and express<BR>their personal Power in their everyday lives. <br />I highly recommend to any seeker of truth that they pick up the book The Thirteen Mystical Treasures, by Rhuddlwm Gawr, and discover the timeless story of mankind's quest to discover the true purpose and meaning of life.	2003-11-22
US	24945048	R8HOP0B00X8BH	059523125X	778757993	The Way: A Discovery of the Grail of Immortality Welsh Witchcraft and the Old Religion	Books	5	10	10	N	N	What is going on? Why is Amazon dissing this book?	I looked at all the reviews.  There are 70% great and 30% trashing the author.  Amazon prefers to feature two of the Worst reviews as their spotlight reviews.  And this book is Great.  The Way has been a mainstay in my personal Library for years.  It is the one book I can give students and know that it will teach them more thank I can.  It is a great book!  It contains everything a Pagan could want.  Buy It!	2003-11-22
US	24945048	R20NQMONOFI4KI	0931760283	416197718	The Way: The Discovery of the Grail of Immortality	Books	5	10	10	N	N	This is the Way to become a Witch	I am a originally from Cardiff Wales, but lived in Atlanta Georgia USA during the early 90s. I am a Pagan, so, in the summer of 1991 I found myself at the Gathering of the Tribes in Atlanta Georgia.  This gathering was sponsored by the same people who wrote the Quest and the other books about Tylwyth Teg.  I met Stewart Farrar and many others including Lady Cerridwen of Y tylwyth Teg.<br />When I went to her workshops my questions were many but I knew they certainly could not be all answered there that day. A<BR>few weeks prior to this meeting I questioned my friend about a book he was was reading. &quot;what is it about?&quot; I asked. Its about Welsh Witchcraft&quot; he replied.  Why would you be reading that? I questioned.  He hesitated for a moment and replied it was &quot;for a class my wife is taking before she attends a Gathering&quot;.  <br />&quot;A gathering?&quot; I asked in excitement, and promptly removed the book from his hands and read the introduction and first chapter in a few minutes.  Then I remembered. Seven years earlier I was introduced to Witchcraft by a book my wife had brought home from the library. After reading this book I began the task of working as a solitaire witch, learning what I could from books and experimentation, I could not read enough to satisfy my wanderlust. I toiled to make the old religion mine but found difficulty in finding the true inner explanations for my desires to be a Witch.<br />What is a Witch? I would continue to ask myself as two years went by. <br />Now back to the Gathering.  The &quot;teacher&quot; is discussing the history of her religion, Y Tylwith Teg. By the end of the class I was filled with the desire to learn much more about this old family tradition. I approached the teacher and convinced her that I needed to learn more, she gave me a handful of old and ragged papers held together by a string and placed them in my<BR>hand. &quot; This is the story of Rhuddlwm Gawr, our church leader who brought the religion of Y Tylwith Teg to America .&quot; I looked down, and in my hands I was holding the book &quot;The Way&quot; by Rhuddlwm Gawr.<br />As I begin to read I found myself in the authors place, living his experiences as he is introduced to the &quot;Fairy Faith&quot;. He introduces me to the history, legends and myths of Y Tylwith Teg. He involves me as he questions his teachers and guides drawing me into the progression of his own personal quest and initiation. Soon I found that many of my answers about what a Witch should be, what their responsibilities in are in modern society, and most importantly discovering my own personal reasons to follow this &quot;path&quot; become fully understood. The author provides carefully selected details of how a Witch in modern times should conduct their lives, live their religion, and begin their own Quest for Love, Knowledge and Power. And how to live a more complete and fulfilling life as they exercise and express<BR>their personal Power in their everyday lives. <br />I highly recommend to any seeker of truth that they pick up the book The Way, by Rhuddlwm Gawr, and discover the timeless story of mankind's quest to discover the true purpose and meaning of life.	2003-11-22
US	24945048	R2EOACE5F3K8IT	0931760437	892213927	Cauldron: Celtic Mythology and Witchcraft	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Celtic/Welsh Mythology - Great	I am a originally from Cardiff Wales, but lived in Atlanta Georgia USA during the early 90s. I am a Pagan, so, in the summer of 1991 I found myself at the Gathering of the Tribes in Atlanta Georgia.  This gathering was sponsored by the same people who wrote the Quest and the other books about Tylwyth Teg.  I met Stewart Farrar and many others including Lady Cerridwen of Y tylwyth Teg.<br />When I went to her workshops my questions were many but I knew they certainly could not be all answered there that day. A<BR>few weeks prior to this meeting I questioned my friend about a book he was was reading. &quot;what is it about?&quot; I asked. Its about Welsh Witchcraft&quot; he replied.  Why would you be reading that? I questioned.  He hesitated for a moment and replied it was &quot;for a class my wife is taking before she attends a Gathering&quot;.  <br />&quot;A gathering?&quot; I asked in excitement, and promptly removed the book from his hands and read the introduction and first chapter in a few minutes.  Then I remembered. Seven years earlier I was introduced to Witchcraft by a book my wife had brought home from the library. After reading this book I began the task of working as a solitaire witch, learning what I could from books and experimentation, I could not read enough to satisfy my wanderlust. I toiled to make the old religion mine but found difficulty in finding the true inner explanations for my desires to be a Witch.<br />What is a Witch? I would continue to ask myself as two years went by. <br />Now back to the Gathering.  The &quot;teacher&quot; is discussing the history of her religion, Y Tylwith Teg. By the end of the class I was filled with the desire to learn much more about this old family tradition. I approached the teacher and convinced her that I needed to learn more, she gave me a handful of old and ragged papers held together by a string and placed them in my<BR>hand. &quot; This is the story of Rhuddlwm Gawr, our church leader who brought the religion of Y Tylwith Teg to America .&quot; I looked down, and in my hands I was holding the book &quot;The Quest&quot; by Rhuddlwm Gawr.<br />As I begin to read I found myself in the authors place, living his experiences as he is introduced to the &quot;Fairy Faith&quot;. He introduces me to the history, legends and myths of Y Tylwith Teg. He involves me as he questions his teachers and guides drawing me into the progression of his own personal quest and initiation. Soon I found that many of my answers about what a Witch should be, what their responsibilities in are in modern society, and most importantly discovering my own personal reasons to follow this &quot;path&quot; become fully understood. The author provides carefully selected details of how a Witch in modern times should conduct their lives, live their religion, and begin their own Quest for Love, Knowledge and Power. And how to live a more complete and fulfilling life as they exercise and express<BR>their personal Power in their everyday lives. <br />I highly recommend to any seeker of truth that they pick up the book The Cauldron, by Rhuddlwm Gawr, and discover the timeless story of mankind's quest to discover the true purpose and meaning of life.	2003-11-22
US	24945048	R2U2D011D0FMDO	0595258085	223027867	The Word: Welsh Witchcraft, The Grail of Immortality And The Sacred Keys	Books	5	13	15	N	N	Fantastic Book, A New Classic	Recently, I read The Word by Rhuddlwm gawr and have found it to be the most informative of any other Book on a specific tradition which I have in my book case. This book goes into great detail on many subjects whereas others may briefly outline them. By reading it, I could tell that many years of research and study have gone into The Word's creation. Reading the entries and topics of which I am familiar with, I know that The Word is giving reliable and accurate information, not hastily put together. The Word is written in Rhuddlwm Gawr's easy-to-read style and is a veritable encyclopedia of Welsh Witchcraft. This book is definitely far superior to others on the subject. The topics shown far surpass any content found within other books.  It reveals as much history as possible of the topic and subject matter and not a mere definition. It is authoritative, expansive, insightful and entertaining. I expect this volume will sit alongside many others as essential reading for those with serious interest in Welsh Witchcraft.  Although there is something here for everyone, it is a rather large book with over 400 pages - and perhaps you might want to tackle his other two books in the trilogy first, The Way and the Quest.  Those Rhuddlwm-bashers, should actually read the book first before slandering it, but they would never admit to lying about a book without reading it.  A lot of Christians do the same thing when a new movie or book is published which disagrees with their ideas.<br />I definitely recommend the Word for any serious student of the Craft	2003-11-01
US	24945048	RX8P55VJNGEII	0595201245	34344444	The Quest: A Search for the Grail of Immortality	Books	5	14	14	N	N	This is a wonderful book of the Welsh Faerie Tradition	The Fay Folk inhabit the realm of dreams and legends, often crossing the threshold between this world and the Otherworld. They have been called the Little People, Y Tylwyth Teg, the fae, or the People of the Hills. With the ability to bestow great gifts if favored or wreak havoc if angered, Welsh Fairies have long been much loved and much feared in the Celtic lands. <br />Listen to the wisdom of the Little People as they speak through this book. This basic Welsh Witchcraft book will enchant with its evocative mental images as it enlightens with insightful readings. This guidebook includes fairy lore, magick and initiation. <br />The gateway to the Otherworld stands open. Cross the threshold and enter the Fairie World, Y Tylwyth Teg, where the gifts and guidance of the fairy folk await you.	2003-11-01
US	24945048	RMW4WJG1CCPSK	0595201245	34344444	The Quest: A Search for the Grail of Immortality	Books	5	14	14	N	N	The best of the best!	I have this book and it was my very first book that got me involved in witchcraft. I highly recommend it to anyone interested in getting started in the craft movment. Those of us who have been involved for a long time still flip through it as a refresher course to keep up on things. It is very through in its explanations of its origins.  Where some books on the craft are somewhat elusive, this book definitely is a no nonsense book on getting started and getting there! I know several witches who have kept this book on their shelves permanently! Well done Rhuddlwm! You wrote a marvelous book! If I were allowed only one book on my shelf on the subject,THIS would be the one!	2003-11-01
US	24945048	R10WZR1P0MCGLH	0595201245	34344444	The Quest: A Search for the Grail of Immortality	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Great Book!	We have found this book to be the most informative book on the subject of Welsh Witchcraft yet to be published. Rhuddlwm Gawr is one of the original Elders of the Witchcraft movement and his devotion and contribution to the religion is well-known. With the publication of this his first book, many questions were answered and many subjects never before covered were brought to light. As with anyone who achieves success, Rhuddlwm has his fair share of &quot;bashers&quot;, but even they cannot dismiss the quality of The Quest or any other books by Rhuddlwm Gawr. His writing, research and character are top-notch. The reader will find no &quot;fluff&quot; between these pages.<br />Brightest Blessings,<br />Hypatia and Gwydion	2003-11-01
US	24945048	R4HBGZ8S7VWWO	0595258085	223027867	The Word: Welsh Witchcraft, The Grail of Immortality And The Sacred Keys	Books	5	13	15	N	N	Everyone else has used all the great words!!	I thought this book fantastic! It covers virtually eveything anyone could want to know about Welsh Witchcraft.  It even has a short history of British Wicca, and the authors deal especially well with the historical material regarding Gardner.  They give plenty of material to make their point without going off the deep end. Their views of ancient Druids and Welsh Witches are enlightening, with concise biographical material. This book will have a long life and will eventually be on the bookshelf of every Witch, Wiccan and Pagan, not to mention all libraries, schools, and colleges. I really can't say enough about this book. Well done, Taliesin, Merridden and even you Rhuddlwm!	2003-11-01
US	24945048	R2Z0P3CRRW917A	0595201245	34344444	The Quest: A Search for the Grail of Immortality	Books	5	13	13	N	N	My First book	It has been 12 years since I purchased The Quest.  It was my first book on witchcraft, and I think that starting with this book has been very good for my initial magical training. I feel that what makes this a good beginner's book is its sense of structure, organization and because it tells a story of how the author got into The craft. Many beginning books stress over and over again that you can do things however you wish and re-structure things as you see fit, however I feel that it is best to see a full working model of a tradition, before making any alterations to suit your beliefs. The Quest is very thorough, covering many subjects without just glossing over them. After reading this book I had a better idea of the seriousness of what I was taking on and I believe that is why I am still practicing where many friends who dipped their toes into the craft never got very far.   After reading The Quest, you must read The Way in order to get a fuller idea of where The Welsh Tradition is going.  I haven't read The Word yet, I missed getting it back in the 80s and then it was sold out.  Hopefully it won't sell out again.  But the Word will be my next book.	2003-10-31
US	24945048	R1WRMKHZZC2I6R	0595201245	34344444	The Quest: A Search for the Grail of Immortality	Books	5	14	14	N	N	I have proved part of the Quest	I have been in correspondence with Rhuddlwm Gawr for about a year and a half.  After I read the Quest last year, examined the Dynion Mwyn Web Page, and visited Betws-y-coed, I decided to at least see if part of the book was true, so last holiday, instead of going to Palma, I went to Porte de Solier (port of the sun) Majorca and looked for a house with a rock in the corner of the ist floor.  I looked and looked and asked questions until I finally happened to meet a hotel manager who remembered that house.  Next step finding the ex-owner.  The house is now the foundation of a large hotel.  FOUND HIM.  He had moved to Palma, so I rang him up and then visited him just before I returned to the UK.<br />Guess what, not only does he remember mr. wheeler, but he had a letter mr. wheeler sent him six months after he left in 1965!  I asked him why he remembered him so well and he said it was because this beautiful lady kept calling on him to go on the excursion boat which motored around the island and she was dark and sexy. (so like a man!)  He said she had left her card and he had stuck it in the letter from mr. wheeler.  Her name was Sarah Wentworth.  So that part of the book is not only exact but I heard several more stories about that time period.  Mr. wheeler worked for the US Airforce and was an field engineer for federal electric corp. (ITT) and was testing communications at a site on Puig Major (the mountain he said he climbed).  So that checked out.  I also contacted the US Consulate in Rome and asked them if they could verify that Mr. wheeler left there in 1965 or 66 to go to London.  Mr. wheeler stated in the letter to me a complete time line of his journey from Madrid, to Athens, to Rome, to Majorca to Rome, to Verona, Italy, and then to London.  It was very difficult since the records were in the US. It took three months before I was also able to determine that mr wheeler entered the UK in 1965 and left the UK in 1966.  It also jibes with other sources.  Was he at Betws-y-coed?  I don't know, but he certainly indicates in his books that he was.  I believe him, not withstanding the nasty reveiews he has received.  In fact I am making it my hobby for the next several years, to search for and record all evidence of mr. wheelers tenure in our land.  I am hoping to meet mr. wheeler when he returns to Wales next year.  He is an excellent author and a very good teacher. I higly recommend his books IF you are a Pagan or lean in that direction.  If you are a Christian, you won't like it.	2003-10-31
US	24945048	RBCD8CCLBCRM0	0595201245	34344444	The Quest: A Search for the Grail of Immortality	Books	5	14	15	N	N	I am so happy I read the book before reading the Bad reviews	This is one of those books that you either love or hate.  If you are true pagan and know what Mysteries are and what Enlightenment is, you will love this book.  If you are a Welsh academican and are concerned with exact spelling and that the book exactly match your idea of Welsh History, you will hate it.  In fact you will hate all Rhuddlwm's books.  It is obvious that he is not concerned with whether you like his book or hate it.  He obviously did not write the books for Christian, or agnostic or atheist readers.  He obviously did not write the book to satisfy those of welsh birth who are interested in whether a word is spelled correctly or not.  He obviously did not the write the book for those Welsh history buffs who cannot stand a book which goes against what they are studying and cannot stand any book which is not politically correct regarding our Prince Llewellyn.  How do I know thias because I read the nasty reviews and they are all trashing the author and hardly even mention the book.  They all start with something like: &quot;This can't be true because...&quot;<br />The book is the story of a mans enlightenment and spiritual growth.  It is about his journey into initiation.  It is about his OBE experience.  It is the story of how he found his spirit guide.  It is a story of how he took this experience back to the US.  But to find out what happened after he took it back, you have to read The Way.  Go to [...]	2003-10-31
US	24945048	R3MS2C2LOBY1ZT	059523125X	778757993	The Way: A Discovery of the Grail of Immortality Welsh Witchcraft and the Old Religion	Books	5	11	12	N	N	I had to laugh!	I read a few of the latest negative reviews by this Crazy persons club in Wales and I almost died laughing.  Cult?  Power? I guess thats why Y Tylwyth Teg creates Covens and then sends them off on their own!  Y Tylwyth Teg does not use sex in its initiations.  Lady cerridwen is the nicest woman i have ever met.  She is totally ethical and honorable.  I was impressed by her manner, her intelligence and her sense of humour.  I am a second degree Dynion Mwyn.  I have met both Rhuddlwm Gawr and Lady Cerridwen.  Both are as nice as anyone would want.  They have no interest in an initiate except their honor and honesty.<BR>There have been many who did not make the cut so to speak.  They were lazy or mean or nasty or abusive or just not real pagans.  They were all turned away.  And guess what they did after they were turned away?  They began a systematic slander of these good people.  I don't know why the Welsh people dislike Rhuddlwm Gawr and Y Tylwyth Teg, but obviously with the lies being told, they have something they are trying to prove.  Every mention of Wales or Y Tylwyth Teg/Dynion Mwyn history is true as far as I am concerned.  The people who are trashing Rhuddlwm Gawr are not pagans.  They don't believe in magick or in spirituality.  Which is so sad.  In all the years I have known Rhuddlwm, he has never made an improper advance toward anyone in the Craft nor has he been anything but an honorable person.  By contrast, there are many of those who are slandering him who are guilty of abuse of the worst kind.  But that is my opinion.<br />Lady Cerridwen leads YTT/Dynion Mwyn.  Lord Rhuddlwm has always shown deference to her.  He has also shown his respect and love for her many many times in the coven and elsewhere.  So obviously these people are lying for some reason, they just don't know how real Pagans act in the US.<br />Finally, I am not part of their Coven although I know several of their members.  They are all nice people.<br />When The Way was reprinted, I wasvery excited since all I had was a internet copy.  Now I have a printed copy I am getting bound with a hard back.  I will treasure this book forever.  It is a real tradition with real values.<br />I laugh at these Welsh people who have no life and need to trash good people in order to feel important.  Well they are not.  They are very sad people.  Again, they have no life.	2003-10-31
US	24945048	R2R1DV1LAMVVH1	059523125X	778757993	The Way: A Discovery of the Grail of Immortality Welsh Witchcraft and the Old Religion	Books	5	12	12	N	N	This book is True!	I have known Rhuddlwm Gawr for over twenty five years.  I am not associated with his tradition of paganism so I feel I can defend him honestly.  I knew him as he was experiencing the events he describes in The Way.  I knew him as he was attacked in Witchwars (similar to what the Welsh critters are doing to him now.)  I swear he is the nicest guy.  He is honest and cares not who believes him.  He cares more for the telling of truth. <br />After reading the trashy reviews, I just had to laugh.  I don't know who they are but they are NUTS!  I for one have never cared for people who attempt to smear a person for their beliefs.  These false reviewers are doing just that.  They have set out to smear mr. wheelers reputation.  Its certainly isn't about book reviews.  I have seen book reviews.  I have not seen a real book review from this crowd.  As far as not being familiar with Wales, mr. wheeler was all over Wales in 1990.  I know because I got cards from him from three different palces.  I have seen a photo album of their trip complete with town and castle and village names, AND photos of mr wheeler and his wife in these places.  HE WAS THERE IN 1990 AND HE WAS THERE IN 1966!	2003-10-31
US	24945048	R2R3TLMV72SDYM	0931760380	551658052	Mysteries of Witchcraft	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Another excellent book by Rhuddlwm gawr	This book really works.  It teaches you about the Welsh Pagan Mysteries,  (...)P>I live in Llangollen. I am Pagan and know my fellow Pagan countrymem. These critics are frauds. They must have read something else. They also dislike the author. It is obviously a personal thing and has nothing to do with the value of the Book. I have a degree in History. Like a few of the other reviewers, I bothered to check the facts and not the invented slander. I have interviewed two members of Dynion Mwyn who practice these magickal ways and found them to be honest and trustworthy, unlike other Pagans in Wales. Others may debate whether the \\"Wynne\\" family which taught the authors, was totally correct in their philosophy, OR their name, but I can say they believed their story, so you can't fault them on that score. I found nothing inconsistent with the ideas and claims in The mysteries of Witchcraft. In fact, I was hard pressed to contradict anything they purported to believe. Those who are criticising the book are listening to rumour instead of reading it. I wonder why they don't want you to read it? In fact it contains a few ideas and words allegedly taken from other sources! Gosh, I picked up three well known books on Welsh history today and can show you several incidents where the authors have fed off each other. so what. I have read over twenty books on Witchcraft in the last 10 years which are like reading a carbon copy of each other. But, I also have read The Mysteries of Witchcraft. From whatever source the co-authors obtained their material, it is fresh and absolutely wonderful. No, the critics didn't bother to read the book. They just have a problem with people reading the truth. The author(s) must be doing something right. Another reviewer said that a very famous book store in California has  sold over a thousand reprints over the past six months. Good for you Rhuddlwm, and Taliesin and Merridden. You've done fantastic. Excellent Book on Welsh Witchcraft. What is the rumour about a production company talking to the author about a movie project? If this is true, I am looking forward to seeing it. BUT, I hope he is keeping some sort of control. If it is a hollywood production, he may find the story taking place in Australia!	2003-10-30
US	24945048	R3XBCP521XIZ7	0595258085	223027867	The Word: Welsh Witchcraft, The Grail of Immortality And The Sacred Keys	Books	5	13	15	N	N	Truth Against the World.	I have just finished reading The Word. Those poor deluded critics who have given it poor reviews obviously haven't read The Word. In fact they have just copied other bad reviews from other books.  I would assume that is unethical, AND considering the fact that The Word costs ..., I really doubt most of these reviews are even true.  How would I know?  Because I live in Llangollen.  I am Pagan and know my fellow Pagan countrymem.  These critics are frauds. They must have read something else. They also dislike the author. It is obviously a personal thing and has nothing to do with the value of the Book. I have a degree in History. Like a few of the other reviewers, I bothered to check the facts and not the invented slander. I have interviewed two members of Dynion Mwyn whose names I was given and found them to be honest and trustworthy, unlike other Pagans in Wales.  Others may debate whether the \\"Wynne\\" family which taught the authors, was totally correct in their philosophy, OR their name, but I can say they believed their story, so you can't fault them on that score. I found nothing inconsistent with the ideas and claims in The Word. In fact, I was hard pressed to contradict anything they purported to believe. Those who are criticising the book are listening to rumour instead of reading the book. I wonder why they don't want you to read it? In fact it contains a few ideas and words allegedly taken from other sources! Gosh, I picked up three well known books on Welsh history today and can show you several incidents where the authors have fed off each other.  so what. I have read over twenty books on Witchcraft in the last 10 years which are like reading a carbon copy of each other. But, I also have read the Word. From whatever source the co-authors obtained their material, it is fresh and absolutely wonderful. No, the critics didn't bother to read the book. They just have a problem with people reading the truth. The author(s) must be doing something right. Another reviewer said that a very famous book store in California has already (according to them) sold over a thousand copies of the reprint over the past nine months. Good for you Rhuddlwm, and Taliesin and Merridden. You've done fantastic. Excellent Book on Welsh Witchcraft. What is the rumour about a production company talking to the author about a movie project?  If this is true, I am looking forward to seeing it. BUT, I hope he is keeping some sort of control.  If it is a hollywood production, he may find the story taking place in Australia!	2003-10-30
US	24945048	R21NA7QK15VQS7	059523027X	16105856	1: Celtic Crystal Magick: Volume One Stones for Healing	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Crystal Magick works for those who believe.	This book really works.  It teaches you about the main crystals and gems within the major groups of minerals and gemstones which are mined and occur in Wales,  ...Like a few of the other reviewers, I bothered to check the facts and not the invented slander. I have interviewed two members of Dynion Mwyn who practice these magickal ways and found them to be honest and trustworthy, unlike other Pagans in Wales. Others may debate whether the \\"Wynne\\" family which taught the authors, was totally correct in their philosophy, OR their name, but I can say they believed their story, so you can't fault them on that score. I found nothing inconsistent with the ideas and claims in Crystal Magick. In fact, I was hard pressed to contradict anything they purported to believe...it contains a few ideas and words allegedly taken from other sources! Gosh, I picked up three well known books on Welsh history today and can show you several incidents where the authors have fed off each other. so what. I have read over twenty books on Witchcraft in the last 10 years which are like reading a carbon copy of each other. But, I also have read Celtic Crystal Magick. From whatever source the co-authors obtained their material, it is fresh and absolutely wonderful. No, the critics didn't bother to read the book. They just have a problem with people reading the truth. The author(s) must be doing something right...Excellent Book on Welsh Witchcraft...	2003-10-30
US	24945048	R3J2B3JWP002CX	0595201245	34344444	The Quest: A Search for the Grail of Immortality	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Am very confused	I live near llangollen.  I am 100% Welsh born.  I have read the Quest three times.  I have found nothing to suggest that it is not a true story.  In fact, for those who REALLY have visited Betws-y-coed, they will have discovered for themselves the old farm in the mountains.  If they read the book they will have known who Charlie is.  They will have actually pictured the initiation in the Fairy Glen.  I did.  I went over the bridge and turned down the road by the river.  Parked my car by the field and walked down and up the path to the Glen.  I saw the fairies as do most visitors.  It is just so sad that all the people writing these nasty reviews haven't even read the book!<BR>This book is one of the best books on the process of enlightenment and initiation I have read.  I believe it is true.  I believe it because I have seen proof from my own investigations.  Too bad the nasties won't even bother to read it.  They ALL keep harping on WALES HISTORY as if they had possession of the only truth about our fair land.  I have news.  I have read the book.  It is fine.  It is good.  The nasty reviewers are not.	2003-10-30
US	24945048	R1L8U286M9KBSL	059523027X	16105856	1: Celtic Crystal Magick: Volume One Stones for Healing	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Crystals For Healing	The reason I bought this book was because of the emphasis on healing.  It works!  Buy it.  Try it.  You will be glad you did!	2003-10-28
US	24945048	R78ASWGMREWNS	0931760240	587899334	Celtic Divination: Witchcraft, Dowsing and Ley Lines	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Becoming Very Famous	This is one of the many books that brought me into the religion of paganism and the tradition of Dynion mwyn.  It is about Dowsing and Leylines which are my hobbies and my beliefs.  I was amazed at this books insight into the ancient art of Dowsing and divination.  But, after reading bad reviews of other Rhuddlwm Gawr books, I can't believe there are children running around to all the amazon books written by Rhuddlwm Gawr, and trashing him and our beautiful religion.  I read the bad reviews and they are so childish.  They don'r review the books, they trash the author and the book without reading it.  They are also fabrications written by only a few people who are changing their e-mail addresses.  How stupid.  Don't they understand people are going to buy the books based on the good reviews, not the bad ones.  And the celebrity status this has thrown Dynion Mwyn into is unbelievable.  I am getting at least three calls a day about these books from the BBC and magazines.  Really amazing.  Thank you nasty children.<br />Don't they realize that when a book becomes controversial, EVERYONE wants to read it?  I've already had calls from several of my friends who know of my interest in Dynion Mwyn.  They bought the books, are raving about them, and they are agnostic!How can I possibly tell you what this book has meant to me. I originally went to the web site of the tradition that the author claimed as his at [...] back in 93 hoping to find out about the author and was overwhelmed. It is just so big and there is so much to explore. But after reading the Quest and looking at the Word, I had to find out more. I did. I found where I could purchase Celtic Divination (here at amazon.com) and actually spent five days non-stop reading it. It is an amazing book. It is about Crytal Balls and Crystal Pendulums, and Tarot and Runes.  But it is also about spirituality. It's not about history, or physics or sociology, or anthropology or any other science although it attempts to place a tidbit here and there. It is about the spirituality of Welsh Herbalism, It is a Divination and Dowsing manual.  I also like the welsh flavor it gives every thing, I live and work in Wales. It, and the other books have made me realize that I knew next to nothing about the country I am living in. I will be doing more research on the Welsh language and Welsh history soon. I love this book and have only had a chance to read half of it. Good Book.	2003-10-28
US	24945048	R3UJ8JEZ2XTS2L	0595201245	34344444	The Quest: A Search for the Grail of Immortality	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Wow.  How can I be the first to review this book?	I purchased this book in 1990, just before Rhuddlwm Gawr visited us.  I live in Hay-on-Wye and was very impressed by the text.  I even stock it in the used book shop I work in.  Recently I have become aware of some really nasty welsh nationalists who are attacking him personally.  Since then I have followed the antics of those here in Cymru who would keep people from reading his books.  Recently it came to pass that I had a chance to visit Betws-y-coed again and visit the same places he and Cerridwen visited.  He won't remember me but I was working at the Royal Oak at the time.  They had a meal there.  I waited on them.  I also overheard some of the things they were talking about and went looking for his book soon thereafter.  It was very difficult but I found one at the Atlantis bookstore in London.<BR>It is a wonderful book.  It is the story of one persons search for and discovery of the Grail.  I still have my first copy and hope to have it autographed.  I finally have saved enough to visit the U.S.	2003-10-28
US	24945048	R11OA1OJ7SKA8B	0931760283	416197718	The Way: The Discovery of the Grail of Immortality	Books	5	10	10	N	N	This is My Way!	How can I possibly tell you what this book has meant to me. I went to the web sight of the tradition that the author claims as his at [...] hoping to find out about the author and was overwhealmed. It is just so big and there is so much to explore. But after reading the Quest and looking at the Word, I had to find out more. I did. I found where I could purchase the third book, The Way (here at amazon.com) and actually spent five days non-stop reading it. It is an amazing book. It is about spirituality. It's not about history, or physics or sociology, or anthropology or any other science although it attempts to place a tidbit here and there. It is about the spirituality of Witchcraft. It does have a Welsh flavor. I like that, I live and work in Wales. It, and the other books has made me realize that I knew next to nothing about the country I am living in. I will be doing more research on the Welsh language and Welsh history soon. I love this book and have only had a chance to read half of it. Good Book and Excellent Story.	2003-10-28
US	24945048	R3LMU190O2V4NV	059523125X	778757993	The Way: A Discovery of the Grail of Immortality Welsh Witchcraft and the Old Religion	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Nasty Reviews did not stop me buying this wonderful book	I actually bought The Way because some of my countrymen were trying to stop anyone from buying it.  I could not understand why some people were trashing it and the author while others were praising it.  Now I know.  It is a fantastic Pagan expose which reveals so much to the reader.  And it is Good and it is spiritual and it is fantastic!  Read it and visit the web page of the religion the author practices at hyyp://[...]  Great Book!!!	2003-10-28
US	24945048	R27Z2VJJ164WTM	0931760429	281653918	13 Mystical Treasures: The Tools of Welsh Witchcraft	Books	5	9	9	N	N	These are not Tools for your garage	This is one of the books that brought me into the religion of paganism and the tradition of Dynion mwyn.  I can't believe there are children running around to all the books written by Rhuddlwm Gawr, and trashing him and our beautiful religion.  I read the bad reviews and they are so childish.  They don'r review the books, they trash the author and the book without reading it.<br />Don't they realize that when a book becomes controversial, EVERYONE wants to read it?  I've already had calls from several of my friends who know of my interest in Dynion Mwyn.  They bought the books, are raving about them, and they are agnostic!How can I possibly tell you what this book has meant to me. I went to the web site of the tradition that the author claims as his at [...] hoping to find out about the author and was overwhelmed. It is just so big and there is so much to explore. But after reading the Quest and looking at the Word, I had to find out more. I did. I found where I could purchase Tools of Welsh Witchcraft (here at amazon.com) and actually spent five days non-stop reading it. It is an amazing book. It is about Witch tools but it is also about spirituality. It's not about history, or physics or sociology, or anthropology or any other science although it attempts to place a tidbit here and there. It is about the spirituality of Welsh Witchcraft Tools with a Welsh flavor. I like that, I live and work in Wales. It, and the other books have made me realize that I knew next to nothing about the country I am living in. I will be doing more research on the Welsh language and Welsh history soon. I love this book and have only had a chance to read half of it. Good Book	2003-10-28
US	24945048	ROHS155QEDC3S	0931760135	761004819	Pagan Herbal: Herbs of Welsh Witchcraft	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Best Herbal I have ever read	This is the book that brought me into the religion of paganism and the tradition of Dynion mwyn.  I can't believe there are children running around to all the books written by Rhuddlwm Gawr, and trashing him and our beautiful religion.  I read the bad reviews and they are so childish.  They don'r review the books, they trash the author and the book without reading it.<br />Don't they realize that when a book becomes controversial, EVERYONE wants to read it?  I've already had calls from several of my friends who know of my interest in Dynion Mwyn.  They bought the books, are raving about them, and they are agnostic!How can I possibly tell you what this book has meant to me. I went to the web site of the tradition that the author claims as his at [...] hoping to find out about the author and was overwhelmed. It is just so big and there is so much to explore. But after reading the Quest and looking at the Word, I had to find out more. I did. I found where I could purchase The Pagan Herbal (here at amazon.com) and actually spent five days non-stop reading it. It is an amazing book. It is about Herbs but it is also about spirituality. It's not about history, or physics or sociology, or anthropology or any other science although it attempts to place a tidbit here and there. It is about the spirituality of Welsh Herbalism, It is a Welsh Herbal with a Welsh flavor. I like that, I live and work in Wales. It, and the other books have made me realize that I knew next to nothing about the country I am living in. I will be doing more research on the Welsh language and Welsh history soon. I love this book and have only had a chance to read half of it. Good Book and Excellent Herbal.	2003-10-28
US	24945048	R3QE3J1QOF8HKZ	0595258085	223027867	The Word: Welsh Witchcraft, The Grail of Immortality And The Sacred Keys	Books	5	13	15	N	N	This is the one for me	After reading the nasty reviews, I HAD to read this book! How can I possibly tell you what this book has meant to me. I went to the web site of the tradition that the author claims as his at [...] hoping to find out about the author and was overwhealmed. It is just so big and there is so much to explore. But after reading his other two books, the Quest and looking at the Way, I had to find out more. I did. I found where I could purchase the third book, The Word (here at amazon.com) and actually spent five days non-stop reading it. It is an amazing book. It is about spirituality. It's not about history, or physics or sociology, or anthropology or any other science although it attempts to place a tidbit here and there. It is about the spirituality of Witchcraft. It does have a Welsh flavor. I like that, I live and work in Wales. It, and the other books have made me realize that I knew next to nothing about the country I am living in. I will be doing more research on the Welsh language and Welsh history soon. Good Book and Excellent Story.	2003-10-28
US	24945048	R23QFAO81LYYJD	0931760054	582644507	Celtic Rites & Rituals: Witches, Druids & Seasonal Festivals	Books	5	10	10	N	N	I Will Always Remember this Book.	This is the book that brought me into the religion of paganism and the tradition of Dynion mwyn.  I can't believe there are children running around to all the books written by Rhuddlwm gawr, and trashing him and our beautiful religion.  I read the bad reviews and they are so childish.  They don'r review the books, they trash the author and the book without reading it.<BR>Don't they realize that when a book becomes controversial, EVERYONE wants to read it?  I've already had calls from several of my friends who know of my interest in Dynion Mwyn.  They bought the books, are raving about them, and they are agnostic!How can I possibly tell you what this book has meant to me. I went to the web site of the tradition that the author claims as his at [...] hoping to find out about the author and was overwhealmed. It is just so big and there is so much to explore. But after reading the Quest and looking at the Word, I had to find out more. I did. I found where I could purchase Celtic Rites and Rituals (here at amazon.com) and actually spent five days non-stop reading it. It is an amazing book. It is about spirituality. It's not about history, or physics or sociology, or anthropology or any other science although it attempts to place a tidbit here and there. It is about the spirituality of Witchcraft. It does have a Welsh flavor. I like that, I live and work in Wales. It, and the other books has made me realize that I knew next to nothing about the country I am living in. I will be doing more research on the Welsh language and Welsh history soon. I love this book and have only had a chance to read half of it. Good Book and Excellent Story.	2003-10-28
