US	25627892	R1ZCL01O2T9ZCD	1581344171	241212726	Saved from What?	Books	5	18	20	N	N	Saved From God's Wrath	Two Quotes from page forty-five:<br /><br />  \\"However, when the scripture tells us that God saves us, that salvation is of the Lord, we tend to forget that salvation is from the Lord.\\"<br /><br />  \\"The last thing in the World the impenitent sinner ever wants to meet on the other side of the grave is God.\\"<br /><br /> The book is titled Saved From What. The What is God. One does not want to suffer  under the wrath of God. Man cannot understand God's Grace unless one understands God's Holiness; part of God's Holiness is His hatred of sin. God is a righteous god; He demands man be punished when he wrongs God. Yes, God seeks a contrite heart.<br /><br /> R.C. Sproul has written a complete text on the Holiness of God; he has written a complete text about man's shattered image since man's original sin; he has written several texts about God's Grace; in many text he has made clear the distinction between mercy and justice. Saved From What  incorporates these concepts into explaining why God sent an innocent man to die for the guilty. Why did God the Father send His only Son Jesus to earth to live and suffer under the torments of  fallen man, to be humiliated by fallen man, and to be executed by fallen man. Why did Jesus suffer as a sinner when He Himself knew not sin? Why was this all needed so repented fallen man may not receive eternal damnation. R.C. Sproul makes clear the impenitent  have no part as adopted Children of God the Father.<br /><br />  I do not believe one can share one's Christian faith unless one has a clear concept of God, man's sin, and his need for forgiveness. This book aims to give a clear short explanation of the Good News. The Good News is not about curing physical illness or financial distress. It is about one's relationship with God. It is about being right with God, so one will not receive eternal punishment through the hand of God. R.C. Sproul explains how sin causes a debt to be paid by man, a ransom to be paid by man, and how sin caused man to be cursed. The author elaborates how the death of Jesus on the cross pays the debt, how the crucifixion pays the ransom, and removes God's curse. It is not enough that the punishment for sin is removed but the righteousness of God is imputed to the repentant sinner. Sproul further explains that the repentant believer become children of God. This brings the consequence of the Christian joining Jesus in Heaven. The book concludes with a beatific vision: an explanation of the regenerate man's perception of God and heaven, once he makes his final destination.man to be cursed. The author elaborates how the death of Jesus on the cross pays the debt, how the crucifixion pays the ransom, and removes God's curse. It is not enough that the punishment for sin is removed but the righteousness of God is imputed to the repentant sinner. Sproul further explains that the repentant believer become children of God. This brings the consequence of the Christian joining Jesus in Heaven. The book concludes with a beatific vision: an explanation of the regenerate man's perception of God and heaven, once he makes his final destination.  <br /> <br />   <br />	2005-06-17
US	25627892	R2UT08XB14ZWVG	0687016053	524819532	Where Resident Aliens Live: Exercises for Christian Practice	Books	3	4	58	N	N	Christian Practice or Legalism	Each man is accountable to God. Because of his disobedience to the Almighty, Man brings condemnation upon himself and God does deliver it. Only through faith in Jesus  as Savior may a sinner receive imputed righteousness. One is recognized as righteous because of the One who died on the cross. Where Resident Aliens Live does not contain an argument that man's good works or good behavior is needed to keep one's salvation, nor does it state  purgatory exists. The thesis in this book is not about good behavior and working for God's Kingdom so one may acquire or keep one's salvation, but as a proper loving response to receiving God's grace. The authors do encourage the believer to become more obedient to God. The argument is made that the local church has the obligation to demand that members obey God's word. This argument is consistent with scripture up to a point. Paul does tell the Church to excommunicate with those who profess Christ and whose practice is to behave certain types of unrepentant sin. I do concur that members who practice sexual sin (physical fornication & homosexuality), cheating one financially, stealing, physical violence, or worship another God should be thrown out of the local church and Christian believers should withhold fellowship until one seeks forgiveness from God. The authors do not stop here. Yes I believe a Christian should serve God by working inside a local church, I do not believe not doing so is grounds for excommunication. And yes I do believe a Christian should serve his fellow man ( the believer and the nonbeliever),but I do not believe a Christian for his lack of service should be excommunicated. I do agree with the authors encouragement of the believer to seek God's Will.  I certainly should practice a more God loving life style. The Christian walk should not be altered because of outside pressures nor be conformed to the current Culture.<br /><br />The writers of this book are Methodist Pastors. Their teachings come closer to the founder of the Methodist movement John Wesley. The authors of this book do distance themselves from certain church practices in today's Methodist church. The word Alien comes from First Peter 2:11<br />  Beloved, I beseech you as aliens and exiles to abstain from the passions of the flesh that wage war against your soul.<br /><br />The home for a Christian is in heaven. The nonbelievers home is here on earth. The Christian therefore should live differently that then those that do not have hope of salvation. The word practice is used to describe the habits, choice of activity, what he participates in, and how one engage with other human beings. There should be some reflection of ones behavior and one's fellowship with God. To this I agree.r of the Methodist movement John Wesley. The authors of this book do distance themselves from certain church practices in today's Methodist church. The word Alien comes from First Peter 2:11    Beloved, I beseech you as aliens and exiles to abstain from the passions of the flesh that wage war against your soul.    The home for a Christian is in heaven. The nonbelievers home is here on earth. The Christian therefore should live differently that then those that do not have hope of salvation. The word practice is used to describe the habits, choice of activity, what he participates in, and how one engage with other human beings. There should be some reflection of ones behavior and one's fellowship with God. To this I agree.	2005-06-05
US	25627892	R7NGXRO5JO96R	080280747X	890160006	No Place for Truth: or Whatever Happened to Evangelical Theology?	Books	3	3	38	N	N	Popular evangelism	People have a legal right to worship as they choose. It is human nature to make this decision based on Utility. The term utility is not used in David F. Wells' book titled No Place for Truth . In Microeconomics, utility is term to describe value.  An individual chooses one item or activity over another because it brings a greater  utility. Utility is an abstract concept of measure. It is a concept to explain how people make rational decisions based on cost (alternative product or activities one abstains from to get another product or activity. A  unit of measure for enjoyment, security, friendship, belonging, comfort, and feeling of competence?  People make a choice between churches based on what they can get out of it. This book tells  why more and more people choose to attend churches that do not teach a comprehensive theology.<br /><br />David Wells goes into great length to describe the limited choices people had a couple hundred years ago. He uses Winah Massachusetts for illustrative purposes.  Church shopping did not exist. No one had the temptation to stay to watch football or This Week with George Stephanopolis. People tended to go to bed earlier on Saturday night, so less temptation to sleep in . Less distraction made for a more consistent church going public. Pastor did not have the pressure to alter their message for the fear that the parishioners would leave his church.  The church building was the focal point of the  town. The Pastor of a church was well respected in the town. David Wells goes nostalgic for the first hundred pages in this book. It seemed to go on and on how different society was.<br /><br />How society has changed and  in turn changed the character of the preached word in the Evangelical church? As transportation and communication became faster & dependable, the individual heard and saw more alternatives. The individual has had more ideas thrown at him and had a greater ease to attend other places of worship. When more people acted upon their new found alternatives,  ministers altered their message to retain and attract new members. Slowly evangelical theology becomes something else; it no longer is the truth as told in the Bible.<br /><br />What it means to be a Christian has changed. Christianity as taught by the Apostles after Pentecost. The time when the church became into being through the preaching of those who followed Jesus earthly walk. To be a believer meant to accept the teachings of Jesus. How did Jesus teach from the Old Testament? How did Jesus life on earth, death on a cross, and His resurrection bring the fulfillment of scripture? Theology came from the mouth of God . A confession is an exposition of God. This type of exposition includes how God acts in this world, how God influences the human race, the character of God, and the Will of God. Knowing God and obedience to God comes through theological understanding of  God. One does not know truth unless one knows God.  The Word of God is absolute truth. Jesus Christ is the only way to heaven. David Wells argues that there is no supposition in scripture that other religions have cloudy form of truth or attributes of God. Everything is not relative.<br /><br />Theology has a confessional element. Statements that assert truths about God. One should reflect on these truths. Relate how one part of  scripture pertains to or is made clear through another part of scripture. One should ponder how truth presented in the Bible corresponds to what is normative is society. Does what learns as common in society conflict with what the Bible teaches; compare what one confesses to what the World claims to true. David Wells argues today's  Christians must not find much conflict if surveys are to be understood as accurate.<br /><br />I get upset over details in my life. Yes I worry and get confused by the smallest problems that come my way. Yes I want to act calmer, feel more in control, and feel better about myself. Should I seek a church that makesme feel more competent, talented, and a person of value? Should a church be a place to elevate my self perception? Should I choose a church based on what it can do for me? Every individual wants to feel healthy and competent. For the most part people choose activities, clothing and food that makes them feel better about themselves. I eat chocolate;it brings a sensation of contentment. I enjoy the moment. Does one attend a specific church because that is where God wants him? Some go for a sense of belonging, others to network, and others for euphoria of  the worship service. David Wells argues people choose what is exciting over what is true. The ultimate aim to know God, to be forgiven for ones sins, and to become Christ like are not sought by church attendees. Someone may want to become close to God, but yet not want to know the truth about God.  No longer do people constuct their understanding of the World based on the Truth proclaim in God's Word.<br /><br />Urbanization, technology, and mass media have effected how society and the individual perceive God. The Christian Faith is found margenalized. Paul Tillich's theology: \\"every person has objects and interests that are of ultimate concern. God or one's thoughts about God are to be manipulated. One chooses how one wants to understand the World and finds a god that fits into that philosophy. People choose not to believe in the transedent, a sovereign God nor the absolute word of the Bible. So call evangelicals do not want a god that intrudes into their life, a god that demands obedience, that has control over one's destiny, and bring down evil ultimately. Many want a god to be used for one's own convience. Such evangelical structure is not consistent with the Bible.that makes me feel more competent, talented, and a person of value? Should a church be a place to elevate my self perception? Should I choose a church based on what it can do for me? Every individual wants to feel healthy and competent. For the most part people choose activities, clothing and food that makes them feel better about themselves. I eat chocolate;it brings a sensation of contentment. I enjoy the moment. Does one attend a specific church because that is where God wants him? Some go for a sense of belonging, others to network, and others for euphoria of  the worship service. David Wells argues people choose what is exciting over what is true. The ultimate aim to know God, to be forgiven for ones sins, and to become Christ like are not sought by church attendees. Someone may want to become close to God, but yet not want to know the truth about God.  No longer do people constuct their understanding of the World based on the Truth proclaim in God's Word.  <br /> <br />Urbanization, technology, and mass media have effected how society and the individual perceive God. The Christian Faith is found margenalized. Paul Tillich's theology: \\"every person has objects and interests that are of ultimate concern. God or one's thoughts about God are to be manipulated. One chooses how one wants to understand the World and finds a god that fits into that philosophy. People choose not to believe in the transedent, a sovereign God nor the absolute word of the Bible. So call evangelicals do not want a god that intrudes into their life, a god that demands obedience, that has control over one's destiny, and bring down evil ultimately. Many want a god to be used for one's own convience. Such evangelical structure is not consistent with the Bible.	2005-05-16
US	25627892	R380K6MTC7402P	1573581445	350924616	Feed My Sheep: A Passionate Plea for Preaching	Books	5	19	20	N	N	Pathos, preaching, and God	Contributors to this book argue that the preached word of  God has become a diminished part of Sunday morning worship service in the United States. Pastors and their congregations want other means of worship to be more prominent. When the pastor does preach, less is spoken about what is written in the Bible, but a form of psychology and/or an alternative  World view is `shared'. Seeking more bodies in the pews, God's word has been left behind.<br /><br />R. Albert Mohler, one of the contributors to Feed My Sheep, agrees that Gods word cannot exist without God's people, but he completes the quote from Martin Luther \\"...... and conversely God's people cannot exist without God's word.\\" Furthermore Paul argued for the word to be preached:<br /><br />  of which I became a minister according to the divine office which was given to me for you, to make the word of God fully known, the mystery hidden for ages and generations but now made manifest to his saints.  (Colossians 1:25-26 RSV)<br /><br />It is the Pastor's job to proclaim God's word to inspire the listener to seek the will of God and to correct the hearers of God's word in any misimpression of God's written word and direct disobedience to God's word:<br /><br />  Him we proclaim, warning every man and teaching every man in all wisdom, that we may present every man mature in Christ.<br />(Colossians 1:28 RSV)<br /><br />John Montgomery Boice tells how God  chooses to bring salvation into a person's life. The proclaimed word of God should tell of man's sinful state and his ultimate destination is hell. No one can avoid his just reward unless another takes the punishment for his sin. Jesus has done this for those who accept Him as Lord and Savior. God chooses man to spread the good news. Through the Holy Spirit God works upon man's heart. Boice further argues God's word is the chief means of Spiritual growth in God's church. To bring further comprehension of God for those that are already saved.<br /><br />Joel R. Beeke makes the argument for experiential preaching; {....\\"to explain biblical matters ought to go, how they do go, and what is the goal of the Christian life.\\" The passion for fellowship with triune God means experiential preaching; It also addresses the believers conscience, his relationship with like believers, and those in the World:<br /><br />  And not only so, but we glory in tribulations also: knowing that tribulation worketh patience;  And patience, experience; and experience, hope:  And hope maketh not ashamed; because the love of God is shed abroad in our hearts by the Holy Ghost which is given unto us.  (Romans 5:3-5 AV)<br /><br />A sermon should be written to teach doctrine. A better comprehension of God and His will has an effect on the listening Christian. The more correctly one understands God, the better chance one will walk closely with God. One's comprehention of God will effect how one praises God through song, prayer, scripture reading, fellowship with fellow Christians, and other means to communicate thanksgiving and reverence towards God. Experience in Christ effects how one routinely prays through the day and the setting aside time for formal prayer. How one serves inside the church and serves those outside the body of Christ. Christians should not neglect fellowship with like believers. They should always be willing and able to defend their faith.<br /><br />R.C. Sproul contributes with a piece on how the preacher ought to be an educator. Preaching is not to be a diversion or entertainment. Knowledge acquired will be used in one's daily walk. The preacher is not to be bashful, but bold.  Freely telling his listeners the word of God, because he has the assurance of the Holy Spirit and that he is correct understanding of the bible. Likewise the Christian is to boldly to defend his faith to the world. \\"Luther was convinced that preachers ought to preach the law as well as the Gospel. Unless the law is set forth clearly and unambiguously, people will never have an appreciation for it.\\"  According to Sproul preaching Law and Gospel will cause conflict, because it reveals sin. When people avoid talking about the law, the heartfelt need for the Gospel grows dim. Effective preaching does cause conflict and enlightens us to God's truth.<br /><br />  The subject of a sermon should ultimately be about God, truths given by God, and wisdom provided by God. The preacher is to depend on Scripture and guidance of the Holy Spirit. Those called to be pastors do have a spiritual gift to speak and the ability to reason. One called to share God's word may lean away from the Holy Spirit, but instead lean upon one's own understanding.<br /><br />John Piper argues preaching is an expository exultation with the aim to glory to God through Jesus Christ. Exultation of God should be a regular part of the Christian life. God is glorified when his people are content in Him. Suffering happens to Christians. Suffering is done by design through God. When a Christian suffers it endangers the individuals contement in Jesus. Through use of several scripture references, John Piper illustrates that Christians do suffer from other men because of their faith. He also illustrates through scriptural passages that the Christian will suffer injury, pain, and illness that is common to all men. God purposes suffering in the Christian life. God wants His followers to be content in Him even when suffering. Preaching involves telling the whole truth. God's sovereignty and the accompany suffering of His followers is part of the Chistian message. Jesus taught the disciples why he must suffer, why His disciples must suffer, and that commom human suffering brings glory to God. The Paster should preach so the Christian is equiped to endure suffering. This includes the message to have joy in the Lord despite and because of one's own suffering.w and Gospel will cause conflict, because it reveals sin. When people avoid talking about the law, the heartfelt need for the Gospel grows dim. Effective preaching does cause conflict and enlightens us to God's truth.      The subject of a sermon should ultimately be about God, truths given by God, and wisdom provided by God. The preacher is to depend on Scripture and guidance of the Holy Spirit. Those called to be pastors do have a spiritual gift to speak and the ability to reason. One called to share God's word may lean away from the Holy Spirit, but instead lean upon one's own understanding.    John Piper argues preaching is an expository exultation with the aim to glory to God through Jesus Christ. Exultation of God should be a regular part of the Christian life. God is glorified when his people are content in Him. Suffering happens to Christians. Suffering is done by design through God. When a Christian suffers it endangers the individuals contement in Jesus. Through use of several scripture references, John Piper illustrates that Christians do suffer from other men because of their faith. He also illustrates through scriptural passages that the Christian will suffer injury, pain, and illness that is common to all men. God purposes suffering in the Christian life. God wants His followers to be content in Him even when suffering. Preaching involves telling the whole truth. God's sovereignty and the accompany suffering of His followers is part of the Chistian message. Jesus taught the disciples why he must suffer, why His disciples must suffer, and that commom human suffering brings glory to God. The Paster should preach so the Christian is equiped to endure suffering. This includes the message to have joy in the Lord despite and because of one's own suffering.	2005-04-30
US	25627892	R21J58RPW5J6L4	0801012643	257048069	The Fundamentals: A Testimony to the Truth	Books	4	14	16	N	N	Coined The word Fundamentalist	Do you believe the Bible to be the word of God? Do you believe the events described in the word of God? Do you believe the events described in the books of the bible really happened as described?  If one answers no to either question, one is at a disadvantage to accept the message of salvation. By the end of the nineteenth century many a seminary professor taught that the bible was not historically accurate and questioned the miracles described in the bible as really happening. Many, who came to seminary to learn how to defend God's word, were taught to question the authority of the Bible. The books of the Bible were not God's authentic word. The Fundamentals was first published in 1917 in response to this situation. The word fundamentalist was coined by those who participated in the writing this work. Later the term was taken with pride by those who defended the authenticity of the Bible.<br /><br />Higher criticism  of the Bible is the determination of the historic origins of each particular book of the Bible. The scholar through research the text, outside historic information, and theory makes a determination who, when, and where the book \\"actually \\" was written. Some question the facts presented in the text because of \\"facts\\" and theories not contained in the text. Some have used the study of Higher criticism as a means to question the historic accuracy of the Bible; they undermine the authority of the Bible as God's written word by determining alternative Human authors to those claimed in the text, and being written in different times. These scholars describe the Bible as human myth. Many a Higher critic deny God's use of miracles to intervene in the world. They do not question God's use of ordinary means to intervene in peoples lives. These scholars taught future ministers of God's word.<br /><br />The Fundamentals were written to counter such criticism of the Bible.  The book contains a counter school of Higher Criticism. These writers believe the Bible was written when the text of the Bible says it was written and written by the authors as stated in the text. These proclaimers of God's word describe the Bible as accurate, historic, and the foremost means God choose to communicate to His flock. This text was written to counter the arguments of those who deny the Bible as the word of God. Each article takes on another argument against the Bible.was written when the text of the Bible says it was written and written by the authors as stated in the text. These proclaimers of God's word describe the Bible as accurate, historic, and the foremost means God choose to communicate to His flock. This text was written to counter the arguments of those who deny the Bible as the word of God. Each article takes on another argument against the Bible.	2005-03-19
US	25627892	R3LXN3V2L82SPY	087552186X	342464324	Given for You: Reclaiming Calvin's Doctrine of the Lord's Supper	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Koinonia, Calvin &The Lord's Supper	A thumb nail sketch ,at the start of the book, is given about the differences between transubstantiation, consubstantiation, and symbolic memorialism. I believe reading about these competing Eucharistic doctrines on pages 239 to 269 before reading about Calvin's doctrine on the Lord's Supper (pgs.. 7-48)would make Calvin's arguments clearer.  One hundred pages on reformed developments of the Lord's Supper from Calvin to the present is a slow read and not very illuminating. Mathison's presentation and description of  bible passages and his understanding of the Lord's Supper is very interesting. He starts with a ten page discussion about the establishment of Passover referring to the book of Exodus. In one page he talks of the bread from heaven to the nation of Israel- that it is God that provided the bread. He then goes unto describe the blood of the covenant. Using the third and fourth chapter of Leviticus, he describes the peace offering the Israelites offered up to God. Arguments are given by the author about the need for continued sacrifice. It was an imperfect system to cleanse and sanctify the sinner unto a more perfect sacrifice would be presented.<br /><br />\\"Oh, that there were among you who would shut the doors, that you would not kindle fire upon my altar in vain! I have no pleasure in you, I have no pleasure in you, says the Lord of hosts, and I will not accept an offering from your hand\\".  Malachi 1:10<br /><br />Keith Mathison calls this concept \\"pure sacrifice\\".  What is needed for a sacrifice to be acceptable to God. Yes man should be repentive for one's disobedience to God and to hold God in reverence. One should be thankful for who God is and praise Him for His long-suffering. Mathison argues that the book of Malachi lays out an argument for a more perfect sacrificial system plus the need to imprint the love of God on people's hearts. He believes Christ death and resurrection brought this into being.<br /><br />Psalms 113-118 may have been used as the songs sung as part of the Passover feast in Jesus time. Mathison further elaborates that Passover liturgy uses the words: \\"This is the bread of affliction which our ancestors ate when they came out of Egypt.\\" He argues those reading the phrase or making the statement did not believe the bread to be the exact same bread that was baked in Egypt. No the bread was like the bread consumed in Egypt. That it was eaten today as to share in the original experience. When Jesus says, \\"this is My body\\". He is telling us that the Bread represents the new covenant. One is no longer saved through animal sacrifice but the sacrifice of Himself.  That the believers deeds  are put on the account of Jesus.  In a way we our accepting Jesus as paying the price for sins. Without partaking in Jesus the sinner is doomed. Mathison distinguishes between Catholic orthodoxy and Reformed.  In Catholicism , the Lord's Supper is a renewal of the sacrifice each time it is partaken. In Reform theology , participants are partakers with Christ. An acknowledgment of dependence of Christ, but not a renewal of the sacrifice.<br /><br />In the early church, as described in the book  titled the acts of the Apostles, it is described that believers broke bread together. Mathison states this is how fellow Christians refered to the Lord's Supper.<br /> The cup of blessing which we bless, is not the communion of the blood of Christ? The bread which we break is it not the communion of the body of Christ?<br />  1 Corinthians 10:16  King James<br /><br />In the revised standard version the word participation is used instead of the word communion. Both are translations from the Greek word Koinonia.  The ordinance or sacrament is not to be practiced in isolation, but together in a corporate worship. That all believers come together to share in the body and blood of Jesus Christ their Savior.  Jesus is the host and provider of the sacrifice once and for all to those who believe. The meal serves as a reminder, butGod also uses the event to sustain, nourish, and to increase the believers communion with their Savior.<br /><br />Jesus states in Matthew 26:29:<br /><br /> But I say unto you, I will not drink henceforth of this fruit of the vine, until that day when I drink it with you in my Father's  kingdom.<br /><br /> The author says this means that Jesus will not drink the cup unto the second Advent of Christ.  This is a promise of  another  Lord's Supper where all of God's elect are with a physical present living Savior. When a Lord's Supper is practiced today, Jesus is there and living--but we cannot perceive Him through sight and He is not drinking the cup with us.<br /><br />The Lord's Supper serves as a sign of the new covenant. The blood of lambs is no longer desired by the Father, but only the Blood of The Lamb -- The Blood of God's  Son Jesus Christ. There is no longer the need for continual sacrifice, because the most perfect permanent sacrifice was made once and for all.<br /><br />The Bread of Life discourse is told in John Chapter six. Unless you eat my body and drink my blood, you will have no part of my Kingdom. Mathison explains how a Christian is to partake of Jesus?  Salvation does not comes to those who do not identify themselves with the one who died on the cross. Both Catholic and Lutheran theology argue for a mere physical consumption of the body and blood of Jesus.nt to sustain, nourish, and to increase the believers communion with their Savior.    Jesus states in Matthew 26:29:     But I say unto you, I will not drink henceforth of this fruit of the vine, until that day when I drink it with you in my Father's  kingdom.     The author says this means that Jesus will not drink the cup unto the second Advent of Christ.  This is a promise of  another  Lord's Supper where all of God's elect are with a physical present living Savior. When a Lord's Supper is practiced today, Jesus is there and living--but we cannot perceive Him through sight and He is not drinking the cup with us.    The Lord's Supper serves as a sign of the new covenant. The blood of lambs is no longer desired by the Father, but only the Blood of The Lamb -- The Blood of God's  Son Jesus Christ. There is no longer the need for continual sacrifice, because the most perfect permanent sacrifice was made once and for all.      The Bread of Life discourse is told in John Chapter six. Unless you eat my body and drink my blood, you will have no part of my Kingdom. Mathison explains how a Christian is to partake of Jesus?  Salvation does not comes to those who do not identify themselves with the one who died on the cross. Both Catholic and Lutheran theology argue for a mere physical consumption of the body and blood of Jesus.	2005-03-02
US	25627892	R2VTZZT24DXLRQ	0875524745	995882258	The Nation of Islam: Understanding the "Black Muslims"	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Hate Begot Hate	The Nation of  Islam includes a doctrine that it is the religion for people of darker complexions. White people are the enemy of God. Historic Islam does not teach this. In this book, a vivid picture is presented how hypocrisy within the Christian church created an atmosphere where a segment of the African American population  sought out a philosophy to explain white hatred and meanness towards those with different skin tones. The Nation of Islam was not the first. Marcus Garvey had a following. His teachings sought to separate the African American population from the white race both in geographic area, socially, economically, and in religious thought. Christianity had no part in his vision to improve the lives of the African American population inside the United States. He wanted the population to leave the United States.<br /><br />Also presented are the ideas of Noble Drew Ali, the founder of the Moorish temple. He also taught the separation of the races: both geographically and in faith. He taught that Jesus really was black. W.D. Fard was a student Noble Drew Ali. After the death of the Moorish temple founder, Fard became the founder of the Nation of Islam. He spread his teaching while being a traveling salesman of silk and raincoats. Soon he had to rent out halls to contain those wanting to learn his teachings. Elijah Mohammad (then known as Elijah Poole) after hearing him speak proclaimed Fard to be Allah. Later this became part of Fard's teachings.  Poole became Fard's top student and within two years Poole lead the Nation of Islam. His reign lasted forty years.<br /><br />  Also included in this book is the sketch of Malcolm Little's life that included a childhood of being past from Foster home to Foster home. How he became converted to the Nation of Islam in prison ,through a correspondence with Elijah Muhammad and became known as Malcolm X. In the late fifties he became the spokesman for the Nation of Islam. Due to a 1959 CBS documentary about Malcolm X titled Hate that Hate Produced, NOI  membership increased rapidly after the show was televised. This book details why Malcolm X left the Nation of Islam to join Sunni Islam. How a  Louis Wolcott became a follower of the Nation of Islam and had his name changed to Louis Farrakan. Included are details of his rise to power. Also included is a discussion about Islam, Christianity, the Bible and the Qur'an.. Tsoukas argues that the Nation of Islam incorporates both the Bible and the Qu'ran in its teachings in a way that neither Islam or Christianity teach.Hate Produced, NOI  membership increased rapidly after the show was televised. This book details why Malcolm X left the Nation of Islam to join Sunni Islam. How a  Louis Wolcott became a follower of the Nation of Islam and had his name changed to Louis Farrakan. Included are details of his rise to power. Also included is a discussion about Islam, Christianity, the Bible and the Qur'an.. Tsoukas argues that the Nation of Islam incorporates both the Bible and the Qu'ran in its teachings in a way that neither Islam or Christianity teach.	2005-02-16
US	25627892	R31COUO9M73YQK	083081339X	269600369	Evangelism & the Sovereignty of God	Books	4	0	4	N	N	God commands WHY?	How does God choose to give an individual information about his own sinfulness? How does an individual learn about Jesus atonement  for your sins? What makes an individual repent to God, because he has become awakened to his sins and need for forgiveness? J.I. Packer does not argue that God has chosen man to spread the message of salvation. That God commands all Christians to spread this good news. But the author does not accept the argument that the reason an individual accepts the gospel is based on the ingenuity of the giver of the word. No J.I. Packer believes that person would have been saved without that particular Christian telling God's word. Salvation comes from the Lord. God blesses His flock by granting them commissions to tell others about Jesus and the Grace of God.  No one comes to the Father but through the Son. No one comes to the Son but who the Father has chosen. No man repents or seek for forgiveness of sin but through the workings of the Holy Spirit. All men choose the darkness. No man  can convince him otherwise to seek the light.<br /><br />Evangelism and the Sovereignty of God attempts to construct  reason to individuals to share God's word to the unbeliever. Not to spread the word of God so others will coming to a saving knowledge of Jesus Christ, but because God commands the Christian to share God's word and to be disciples to those who accept Jesus as their personal savior. God decides who will be saved. It is an honor to be used by God.<br /><br />Packer describes his ideas how the Christian should share God's word with unbelievers. Any preaching and/or evangelism should include the Lordship of Jesus Christ. No one should accept Jesus as Savior without counting the cost. no call for snap judgments as accepting Jesus as savior. No god chooses man to anguish over his rebellion against God, before coming to a decision whether to accept Jesus. It seems to the individual he is the one has come to the conclusion. Yes compelled by God, but wrought by God to change the person's thought patterns.ought by God to change the person's thought patterns.	2005-02-09
US	25627892	R3GPEV78F1AYIW	0801064007	640157313	Putting Amazing Back into Grace: Embracing the Heart of the Gospel	Books	3	8	30	N	N	Putting Amazing Back into Predestination	God is sovereign. Sin is an act, thought, or behavior against the will of God. God demands righteousness. God exacts harsh punishment to man for his rebellion against God's will. God has provided a means for some to avoid eternal punishment. Putting Amazing Back into Grace is a defense of the doctrine of predestination that many know as Calvinism. Horton's arguments do not include quotes from Calvin. This work uses biblical explanations and arguments about man's sinful predicament, his unwillingness to accept God's sovereignty and provision for forgiveness. Only through the Holy Spirit can repent for going against the will of God, seek to learn God's will, believe the word of God and have faith. Each chapter has discussion questions at the end.<br /><br />Also included are two appendixes. The first one provides bible references to doctrines: Man's choice for disobedience, man left alone will not receive God's word, the initiative rest with God not man, Who God chooses does not rest on the comparative character of each particular man, The atonement of the cross will not go unanswered, and salvation is sealed by God not based on man's obedience or goodness.<br /><br />The second appendix are the arguments of Christian scholars concurrent and post biblical writings. He quotes from Clement, Barnabas Ignatius, Justin Martyr, William Tydale, Martin Luther, John Calvin, Bucer, Knox, George Whitefield, Jonathan Edwards, Hieronymus{Jerome},Irenaeus,Tertullian, and Charles Spurgeon.<br /><br />  The author then uses quotes from the creeds; Council of Orange, Council of Valence(855),The Ten Conclusion of Berne (1528), Ausburg Confession of the Luthern Church, Westminster Confession (1646), Confession Dosithus Helvinic Consensus formula, The London confession,Abstract Priciples (1859) and the New Hampshire Confession of Baptists in America.	2005-01-22
US	25627892	R1NIM2RKRZYVIK	0684815001	763680226	The Cost of Discipleship	Books	5	4	4	N	N	The Cost of carrying one's cross	To be a part of the World and yet not be of this world? To not cloister oneself from the unredempted, but yet live to please Jesus. That question should be thought of as one reads this work. The book has a twenty-two page biography of Dietrich Bonhoeffer and memories G. Leibholtz of his friend Dietrich Bonhoeffer. These works serve as a letter of recommendation to the reader. The author of this work taught that true disciples of Christ take up their cross daily, and the writer of this work practiced what he preached. A true follower of Christ seeks the praise of God and not the praise of men. Yes, Bonhoeffer left Germany briefly in Germany in 1939, but he felt compelled to return to Germany. He sought  to do God's will in Nazi Germany. While other  \\"Christians\\" changed their theology to not offend the Government authorities, he did not. The text of this book was first published in 1937; This work may provoke you to search your soul. What cross God may be calling you the reader to carry. He knew discipleship went beyond repentance and the seeking of God's forgiveness. Taking up one's cross had meaning to this man. Yes, Bonhoeffer could have waited out the war in the United States, but he could not and be consistent with the arguments presented in his book titled the Cost of Discipleship.<br /><br />In this work the author bemoans those who seek out the acceptance of man over the seeking to do the will of God. He does not think highly of those who try to separate themselves from the world, so to avoid the trials and temptations of the day to day life. The Life of Martin Luther is brought up. Before his rebellion from the Roman Catholic  Church, Luther lived a \\"cloister\\" life. He did not have to deal with the day to day temptations the general populace; Living and working separately from those who raise families and work in commerce. Not because the world is in itself good and holy, but because there is where the Christian is called. The author describes Christian living as hand to hand combat.<br /><br />The main theme of this book is who rules your life? Is it Jesus or your family? Do friends, things or employment ultimately determine what you think or behave in your life? Does your theology conform to the things of this world or to the teachings of Jesus Christ? Bonhoeffer reflects on the teachings in the Sermon on the Mount. He then goes on to teach how the Disciples learned by what Jesus taught. No he does not deal with their weakness and/or failures, but with the final product that was wrought in part through the teachings of Jesus Christ and seeking to live a godly life. This work also tries to answer the question: what it means to be part of the body of Christ? What is the difference to be a part of the visible and invisible community? What it means to be a true Saint and one who is made into the image of the Christ.ng as hand to hand combat.<br /><br />The main theme of this book is who rules your life? Is it Jesus or your family? Do friends, things or employment ultimately determine what you think or behave in your life? Does your theology conform to the things of this world or to the teachings of Jesus Christ? Bonhoeffer reflects on the teachings in the Sermon on the Mount. He then goes on to teach how the Disciples learned by what Jesus taught. No he does not deal with their weakness and/or failures, but with the final product that was wrought in part through the teachings of Jesus Christ and seeking to live a godly life. This work also tries to answer the question: what it means to be part of the body of Christ? What is the difference to be a part of the visible and invisible community? What it means to be a true Saint and one who is made into the image of the Christ.	2004-11-08
US	25627892	R2P3IAECGNM3GO	0849917735	713201735	Twelve Ordinary Men: How the Master Shaped His Disciples for Greatness and What He Wants to Do With You	Books	4	22	23	N	N	Twelve Men of Dust?	How the Master shaped His disciples for greatness and what he wants to do with you? That is the question on the cover of Twelve Ordinary Men.  John MacArthur answers the first part of the question and leaves the second for your own conclusion. He tells how the disciples were called and how Jesus taught them for the remainder of His earthly ministry. The twelve men who were later called by Jesus to be apostles were human beings born as sinners; Scripture well illustrates this point. These men remained sinners and full of human frailty. What makes this work different is how John MacArthur describes the men as individuals based  on scripture and historic information. ( Josephus, Antiquities & War on the Jews are used as sources also Eusebius, Ecclesiastical history}. The author talks of the disciples' former occupations, their temper (James and John as the sons of thunder), and how they came to know Jesus as God and Savior. He brings the humanity out of the men chosen to start God's church.	2004-10-20
US	25627892	R3QAQXYSDPZ8IA	0849917549	258180881	Five Things Every Christian Needs to Grow	Books	4	11	13	N	N	Not Jabez	THIS BOOK IS CLEARLY IN RESPONSE TO THE PRAYER OF JABEZ.  The dimensions of the cover, number of pages, and the promise of a simple formula for Christian growth. The book titled: Five Things Christian Needs to Grow is thinner and the print in the text smaller. Text print is smaller then other Sproul books. On the cover of the Prayer of Jabez is the line \\"Breaking Through to the Blessed Life\\".  \\"To Grow\\" does not have the sound of immediacy as \\"Breaking Through\\" does. Both texts are aimed at the believer who feels something lacking in their Christian walk. The Sproul's  work maps out five things a Christian needs to do to have spiritual growth. This work is more a brief outline what a Christian needs to have in his walk. Wilkerson's work more concentrates on prayer and having faith in whom one prays to.<br /><br />Sproul urges the Christian to hunger for God's word. Biblical study is paramount in the Christian walk. It is important that the Christian read the whole bible, but in what sequence of books read will alter the edification of the person. The whole bible is a message from God. Sproul recommends the order, composition, and number of chapters Christian should read daily. He also recommends other ligonier resources that help a student of the bible understand God's word.<br /><br />What type of prayer does R.C. Sproul suggest. He starts with the obvious the \\"Lord's prayer\\". The prayer Jesus used as example for the disciples. From there he broadens his suggestion of praying through the Lord's prayer; to use the exact words but to follow up with your own paraphrase and concepts. This is what Martin Luther taught. Martin Luther also prayed through the ten commandments and the Apostles creed. This discussion on prayer is prescriptive and descriptive. He also encourages the reader to seek out the work \\"A Simple Way to Pray\\". He encourages the Christian to understand prayer as more than supplication and intercession. The Prayer of Jabez is about praying for supplication and intercession. Very well because it is about praying how to serve God and being used by God.<br /><br />The third thing is Worship.<br /><br />  I was glad when they said unto me, Let us go into the house of the LORD.  (Psalms 122:1 AV)<br /><br />R.C.  Sproul stresses the seriousness of worship. Worship is for God. The ultimate aim is not for the participants enjoyment, enlightenment,  or growth.<br /><br />  Then Moses said unto Aaron, This is it that the LORD spake, saying, I will be sanctified in them that come nigh me, and before all the people I will be glorified. And Aaron held his peace.  (Leviticus 10:3 AV),<br /><br />Does one come to worship for one's own well being or does one come to church to glorify God? Do you come to church to make friends? Do you come to fellowship with godly people? Do you come to have an emotional experience or to praise God?<br /><br />True worship can only occur when truth is taught. Sproul argues doctrine divides, but it also unites those who truly want to know God. Referring to Romans 5:1,2 and Hebrews 4:16, it is only through Jesus that Christians can stand together and rejoice in the glory of God. Worship should have a positive effect on the whole body in obedience and appreciation to God.<br /><br />In this work, Sproul makes clear the aim of bible study, prayer, worship, service, and stewardship is to further God's Kingdom - therefore to glorify God.  These things can be thought of as means of grace. Tools and instruments used by God to strengthen and nurture the believer to grow into more conformity of Christ. In no way does the believer merrit, earn, deserve, or contribute toward one's Salvation based on these activities. The prayer of Jabez skips over other means and argues for shorter simpler prayer to build God's kingdom. Seeking a larger ministry seems to be the chief concern. Five Things seeks to instruct the Christian to grow closer to God through a more humble servanthood. Sproul argues that the book of Exodus describes how the people were freed from serving the Pharaoh into service of God. Through the power of Salvation one is redeemed from the service of Satan into God's service. Recommended reading is J I Packer about the joy of rendering obedience to God without giving a specific book title.<br /><br />Sproul talks of talent, physical ability, opportunity and wealth as things from God. Ownership of these qualities are God's not yours. One does not have the right to use poorly. One should use these things to further God's Kingdom. Recommended reading is Resources for Deacons Tim Keller.<br /><br />Sproul makes a distinction between stewardship and service. Referring to Romans 12:1,2 The Christian is to give his body as a living sacrifice.  How is the Christian to use what God has given for a time to use? Christians are to be stewards of what God has given them. Ten is a fair portion for both the poor and wealthy to give God.  Sproul goes into detail the importance of the believer to finance God's ministry. Sproul then goes into detail the importance of those trusted with running a ministry to be good stewards of the finances, maintenance of the buildings, equipment, and any other physical assets of said ministry. He also talks the importance of treating those put under your authority fairly.nto service of God. Through the power of Salvation one is redeemed from the service of Satan into God's service. Recommended reading is J I Packer about the joy of rendering obedience to God without giving a specific book title.    Sproul talks of talent, physical ability, opportunity and wealth as things from God. Ownership of these qualities are God's not yours. One does not have the right to use poorly. One should use these things to further God's Kingdom. Recommended reading is Resources for Deacons Tim Keller.     Sproul makes a distinction between stewardship and service. Referring to Romans 12:1,2 The Christian is to give his body as a living sacrifice.  How is the Christian to use what God has given for a time to use? Christians are to be stewards of what God has given them. Ten is a fair portion for both the poor and wealthy to give God.  Sproul goes into detail the importance of the believer to finance God's ministry. Sproul then goes into detail the importance of those trusted with running a ministry to be good stewards of the finances, maintenance of the buildings, equipment, and any other physical assets of said ministry. He also talks the importance of treating those put under your authority fairly.	2004-09-26
US	25627892	R17LNHSBT6CW47	1581341377	921162191	The Spirit of Revival: Discovering the Wisdom of Jonathan Edwards	Books	4	7	8	N	N	1 James 4:1	The Spirit of Revival<br /><br />  Many times one may hear is this of God or by mere man. In this work Jonathan Edwards discusses how one may know if  a revival is from God or the construction of man. What is from the Holy Spirit and what does not come from the Holy Spirit. Through arguments and reasoning he urges the believer to explore whether a revival is a true Revival of God's church or just human activity.  Pastor Edwards elaborates how human emotional expression and the body physically reacting  God's word preached/shared may be the result of the Holy Spirit working within the individual; He also argues that emotional expression and bodily reaction is not conclusive proof it is the work of God.<br /><br />  Beloved, believe not every spirit, but try the spirits whether they are of God: because many false prophets are gone out into the world.  (1 John 4:1 AV)<br /><br />  Jonathan Edwards argues every spirit should be tested. He does not argue the response has to be miraculous. Just because the reaction could occur without supernatural response does not mean the Holy Spirit has not intervened. God uses ordinary means to build His kingdom and the Holy Spirit leads the Christian in sharing God's word and to serve God. The Holy Spirit also leads the follower of Christ to respond emotionally. Rarely does the Holy Spirit use people to do God's miracles. The Holy Spirit commonly uses less spectacular methods. Erwin Lutzer's book titled Seven Convincing Miracles  goes into greater detail about this.<br /><br />  So how does the Christian discern whether a revival is from God? Emotional reaction and physical response is worthy praise to God. But to some individuals may be ends to their own: a type of entertainment. Edwards asks whether the reaction is in response to God's word preached?  Is the Gospel of Jesus Christ being preached? To elaborate, is man's sinfulness expressed, do people learn about Jesus not sinning when living as man on this earth, do people hear about the suffering of Jesus, do people hear Jesus dying on the cross and on the third day raising from dead? Do people know they are sinners and only through Jesus can they avoid spiritual death?<br /><br />  Jonathan Edwards continues to argue that a sign of the Holy Spirit is whether the Bible is preached and shared. Included in this is whether people seek to be obedient to the Word of God. Co-author Archie Parrish tries to elaborate after the words of Jonathan Edwards are finished; Parrish's words do not seem to express continuity. Sproul's chapter before the message by Edwards will help the reader to comprehend the Jonathan Edwards' message.  Arguments in how to use the book to bring revival to your own church are unconvincing.o people hear Jesus dying on the cross and on the third day raising from dead? Do people know they are sinners and only through Jesus can they avoid spiritual death?          Jonathan Edwards continues to argue that a sign of the Holy Spirit is whether the Bible is preached and shared. Included in this is whether people seek to be obedient to the Word of God. Co-author Archie Parrish tries to elaborate after the words of Jonathan Edwards are finished; Parrish's words do not seem to express continuity. Sproul's chapter before the message by Edwards will help the reader to comprehend the Jonathan Edwards' message.  Arguments in how to use the book to bring revival to your own church are unconvincing.	2004-09-06
US	25627892	R2GNEA7I3SO8PS	0830815368	723450313	The Holy Spirit (Contours of Christian Theology)	Books	3	3	38	N	N	Theopneustic	God is One yet three persons. He is not three gods that became one God nor is He three persons that became One God. The three persons of  God always existed as one God. All  three persons of the God always existed. This work by Sinclair Fergunson does not go through the paradoxes and dilemmas that many a theologian ponder and discuss in other works. The author starts with a brief distinction of ministry between the three persons of the God head: The Father, The Son, and The Holy Spirit. In brief  there is a discussion about the Father's grand scheme of creation, life, death, and the proprietion for man's sins. Also discussed is the implementation of the Father's plan by the Son. The Son comes into the sinful World as a man suffering  the indignities of a sinner without ever sinning in total obedience to the Father. This culminates in the Son suffering a shameful death and the glorious resurrection. Dr. Ferguson argues the Son stayed God but did without the prerogatives of God while on earth. He needed the help of the Holy Spirit in withstanding temptation and in revelation. Jesus did not depend on human strength, but His strength as God. Christians should also depend on the strength of God through the Holy Spirit. Jesus emptied Himself to become man yet stayed God, but in a sense depended on the other person of Himself to preach the word of God and avoid falling into temptation.<br /><br />  How does the Holy Spirit minister to the individual Christian? The chief gift of the Spirit is the ability to know God's word and to share it with other people. This gift was given to only a few before Pentecost, but now is given to all who believe in Jesus Christ and accept the gift of Salvation. The Christian also needs the Holy Spirit in his daily walk. Only through the power of the Holy Spirit can the Christian preserver temptation and not fall into it. How does one express love for God? Living in Obedience to God's Will. Sinclair Ferguson does not detail how the Spirit helps the Christian in his walk.<br /><br />The Fruit of the Spirit is love. The sum of the Law and the prophets is to love God plus to love your neighbor as your self. Only through the Holy Spirit can any man show such a love. This book details such a love.  &#60;BR&#62;<br /><br />  Also discussed in this work is the inerrancy of God's word. Theopneustic is defined as God breathed. Teaching God's mighty deeds and interpretative word. Words that proceed from God's mouth. The author argues through the person of the Holy Spirit. In general Sinclair B. Ferguson makes the same fruit comes from God's redeemed people.son does not detail how the Spirit helps the Christian in his walk. <br /> <br /> <br />The Fruit of the Spirit is love. The sum of the Law and the prophets is to love God plus to love your neighbor as your self. Only through the Holy Spirit can any man show such a love. This book details such a love.  &#60;BR&#62; <br /> <br /> <br />    Also discussed in this work is the inerrancy of God's word. Theopneustic is defined as God breathed. Teaching God's mighty deeds and interpretative word. Words that proceed from God's mouth. The author argues through the person of the Holy Spirit. In general Sinclair B. Ferguson makes the same fruit comes from God's redeemed people.	2004-08-17
US	25627892	RTAT76VTFJSJ1	080105852X	288825927	Not a Chance: The Myth of Chance in Modern Science and Cosmology	Books	5	11	14	N	N	Creatio Ex Nihilo	Cretio Ex Nihilo<br /><br />This work is meant as groundwork in apologetics in which the main scope is proving absurdity of self creation.  That something has always existed. Some reviewers have taken exception that any scientist claims that there was ever purely nothing. One calls any such statements as hyperbole ( deception in my mind). Anyway the argument by some is everything has a cause? R.C. Sproul argues this is a fallacy. Something cannot become without something already existing. One reviewer argues that sub atomical is the nothing something comes from. Anyway one can argue that the atomic level has already existed or some sub level. One can argue that the Big Bang caused the universe we know. R.C. Sproul argues that the Big Bang did not cause being. R.C. Sproul does not accept the Big Bang theory, but the major theme of this book is about the misconception of chance and the origin of the universe from nothing. Therefore he does present the Big Bang theory demands an antecedent (something to exist before hand).<br /><br />Chance is neither an active or knowing being. Chance is a useful term about probability.  R.C. Sproul states that many a scientist talk as if chance can cause something given enough time.<br /><br />The book does not detail how a glob of material floated based on polarity or something colliding in time to cause certain reactions that eventually resulted in the Universe and existence that you and I know today. Neither do I believe many scientist describe the Big Bang theory this way. It is often explain as some magical theory for the cause of all existence (not just the universe). Many in the general public may have this misconception. R.C. Sproul shows the fallacy of such thinking.<br /><br />R.C.. Sproul believes that God has always existed. He also argues that everything else is caused by God. If God did not exist nothing else would exist.	2004-07-12
US	25627892	R23H5MLFEG974K	083081650X	644598495	Knowing God	Books	4	9	13	N	N	Quench the Word of God	Who changed the truth of God into a lie, and worshipped and served the creature more than the Creator, who is blessed for ever. Amen.  (Romans 1:25 AV)<br /><br />Packer refers  to the word of God throughout this book. Those who challenge the inerrancy  of the Bible will find this work useless. God chose to teach us humans through the word of God. Therefore the Bible is where individuals learn about God.<br /><br />J.I. Packer sets out by differentiating between God and His creatures (man).  In what ways man has nothing in common with his creator. Packer at length describes as being self existent, infinite, eternal, unchangeable, omniscient, and omnipresent.  After these aspects of God are  fully described, Packer continues by clarifying analogies between man and God.  These are called perfections. Man can be holy, Man can love, man can show mercy, man can be truthful, man can be good, man can be patient, and man can be just. Packer describes how God is perfect and these aspects about any man is imperfect.<br /><br />The first 137 pages of this book will not offend today's<br />Christian. Page 138 starts a discussion about Grace and how many miscomprehend the term. Why? Because  some deny God as judge, they deny the wrath of God, and do not comprehend that God is a jealous God. That God is good because He is severe about sin. Someone must take the punishment for sin.<br /><br />After an explanation of God, man, and sin, Packer teaches the heart of the Gospel. That only those who repent accept Jesus as Savior are heirs of the Father and are adopted sons of God. Only then does discussion turn to the more popular themes: how God is our guide, how the repentant sinner is helped through his trials and the adequacy of God.<br /><br />The width of our knowledge of God is no gauge of the knowledge of God. (pg. 39) Notional correctness (best biblical scholar with presume accuracy) may/may not obtain the closer relationship with God. Packer argues knowing God is a matter of involvement. Prayer - corporate, private and without ceasing. Bible study - corporate, private devotional, and scholarly<br />Obedience out of love for God and people. Only then Friendship with God may occur. Trying a mouthful of God and enjoy it.<br /><br />  O taste and see that the LORD is good: blessed is the<br />man that trusteth in him.  (Psalms 34:8 AV)<br /><br /> Early in the book is a discussion about the Trinity<br />complete with scriptural proofs.Prayer - corporate, private and without ceasing. Bible study - corporate, private devotional, and scholarly<BR>Obedience out of love for God and people. Only then Friendship with God may occur. Trying a mouthful of God and enjoy it. <BR><br />  O taste and see that the LORD is good: blessed is the<BR>man that trusteth in him.  (Psalms 34:8 AV)<BR><br /> Early in the book is a discussion about the Trinity<BR>complete with scriptural proofs.	2004-06-14
US	25627892	R3E07FZLK0SGZ2	0801038189	329816831	Introduction to Philosophy: A Christian Perspective	Books	5	4	7	N	N	Not for itching ears	The reason to read this book is to become aware  what  philosophies and logic are consistent to teachings in the word of God and what is not.  This work will better prepare the reader to comprehend Christian apologetic works.  This book can equip the Christian in his quest to avoid the temptations of  higher criticism. To anchor one's thought process to the word of God. This book should be read before one attempts to read Geisler's book on Christian Apologetics or another textbook on Christian Apologetics. I plan on reading  Geisler's work on logic before rereading his apologetics work. This text does discuss methodology and logic sufficient to understand the rest of the text, but further understanding of logic may be needed to less difficulty comprehending the apologetics text.<br /><br />  For though by this time you ought to be teachers,you need some one to teach you again the first principles of God's word. You need milk, not solid food;  (Hebrews 5:12 RSV)<br /><br />  Study to shew thyself approved unto God, a workman that<br />needeth not to be ashamed, rightly dividing the word of truth.  (2 Timothy 2:15 AV)<br /><br />  Part of the Christian walk is become mature in Christ in both the word and deed. Pure study will never bring the Christian into increasing maturity. The Holy Spirit works through the Christian's daily walk which includes prayer, study of God's  word, and interaction between believers and nonbelievers. None the less part of the Christian walk is to seek stronger spiritual food- not just the food for babes in Christ.  Earnestly seeking to stay steadfast to the word of God. This book presents nonbiblical philosophies and explains why  it is not consistent with scripture.<br /><br />  For the time will come when they will not endure sound doctrine; but after their own lusts shall they heap to themselves teachers,having itching ears;  (2 Timothy 4:3 AV)<br /><br />To discriminate between what is the teaching of God and what is not.	2004-06-01
US	25627892	RDN676AL28972	0060086130	462466391	Mere Christianity/ The Screwtape Letters	Books	3	1	11	N	N	British Apologetics	A book may have plenty of scripture references, yet its arguments and meaning are not consistent with the truth contained in the Bible. I have read several sermons by Charles Spurgeon. In these sermons he only briefly refers to a passage in the Bible. Yet  his messages  explain the truth that is contained within the Bible. C.S. Lewis does not refer to any specific passages in the Bible. Most of his arguments are consistent with scripture, but some are plainly not. i.e. One can be a Christian yet not know of the word of God. A serious error in doctrine.<br /><br />Mere Christianity is a set of radio messages given by C.S. Lewis during world War Two. It is an attempt to make Christianity more acceptable to the British public.  C.S. Lewis tries through argument to overcome intellectual arguments to Christianity. This includes God's right to judge sinners and man's need for repentance. Mr. Lewis never explicitly asks one to repent and come to Jesus. Nor does this work have a prayer to ask Jesus to come into your life. These things and all other  biblical doctrines are explained and argued without quoting scripture or citation of scripture references. C.S. Lewis attempts to persuade people that their objections to God and other biblical truths are based on faulty thinking. A large portion of the book discusses sin and how man rationalizes about sin. He also discusses Faith and Hope. Also there are arguments about who God is and what he is not, what it means to be a Christian, and what is an institutional Christian church. What is essential for a person to believe in and be a Christian? What attributes are essential for a religious organization to have so that it may be defined as Christian?<br /><br />The Screwtape letters is about man's falleness. Included in the work are arguments how man's intellectual thoughts effect his daily walk with God. He also argues how a person perceives the World situation effects the Christian walk( W.W.II  or peace?) Mostly the work is about how one interacts with other people and the Christian walk . C.S. Lewis uses a unique form of fiction to make his arguments. A correspondence of letters from one demon to another demon. In this way he tries explain how man is tempted and how he falls into temptation or keeps his eyes on Christ.ow one interacts with other people and the Christian walk . C.S. Lewis uses a unique form of fiction to make his arguments. A correspondence of letters from one demon to another demon. In this way he tries explain how man is tempted and how he falls into temptation or keeps his eyes on Christ.	2004-04-05
US	25627892	R3OTBEOKXNEDX	0801012600	561299527	Prophetic Untimeliness: A Challenge to the Idol of Relevance	Books	4	7	10	N	N	Idol of Relevance??	What is a relevant message? What does keeping it real mean? Is there an obligation of the preacher to hold the unbeliever's interest? OS GUINNESS attempts to give a point of reference to the church about society's culture, the church, and the preached Word of God. He argues man's misunderstanding of time: How he perceives the past, present and future  has resulted in him abusing God's revealed truth and in him preaching of another gospel.<br /><br />  OS GUINNESS argues the Gospel of Jesus Christ is always pertinent and appropriate. \\" The Gospel addresses the human condition appropriately, pertinently, and effectively. This is true whatever your generation, whatever your culture, or whatever century you live in.\\" pg. 13. He further argues all Christians should share the message of Christ to all unbelievers in all types of situations. The Christian life should be defined by the Gospel.<br /><br />  On the cover of the book is a challenge to the idol of relevance. How can one worship relevance? Relevance is worshipped when God's truth is disregarded and it is sought more than God's Will. Pastor seeks to hold people's interest by giving messages that today's listener finds relevant. But if what is taught (doctrine) is not true to God's word, how can it be relevant to the unbelievers most important need?  Man's most important need is forgiveness for his sins and eternal life. The Christian should stay faithful to God's word. If not the Christian is not faithful to God and holds no relevance to the unbeliever. The Christian's authority comes from God. Only through obedience to God's word can a Christian be relevant to the unbeliever.<br /><br />Those who profess to believe Jesus Christ is the Savior and Lord have often moved away from historic doctrine. Large portion of those who proclaim themselves as evangelicals attempt to adapt their theology to today's thinking in the World. The message is conformed to the toils of fashion and conformity. Culture is decisive and the audience is sovereign.  What people do and think determines the message given by many a pastor. The teachings of yesterday are not judged based on truth, but rather if today's target audience will be receptive. What the preacher feels the people wants to hear today and in the future determines what is preached and how the church goes about other activities.<br /><br />Therefore what is considered relevant becomes a new god, an idol. Those who come into a particular local body no longer serve The God. They come to seek a different truth defined by today's culture. The truth is no longer taught out of scripture. No longer do people come out of a conviction that they have rebelled against God, repent from wrong  doing and seek God's forgiveness. Many come to be entertained and recreation.<br /><br />This book does not contain scripture references nor is this book aimed at those who do not proclaim Jesus as Lord. It is an encouragement for those who profess Jesus as Lord and Savior to stay true to God's Word.e audience is sovereign.  What people do and think determines the message given by many a pastor. The teachings of yesterday are not judged based on truth, but rather if today's target audience will be receptive. What the preacher feels the people wants to hear today and in the future determines what is preached and how the church goes about other activities. <BR><br />Therefore what is considered relevant becomes a new god, an idol. Those who come into a particular local body no longer serve The God. They come to seek a different truth defined by today's culture. The truth is no longer taught out of scripture. No longer do people come out of a conviction that they have rebelled against God, repent from wrong  doing and seek God's forgiveness. Many come to be entertained and recreation. <BR><br />This book does not contain scripture references nor is this book aimed at those who do not proclaim Jesus as Lord. It is an encouragement for those who profess Jesus as Lord and Savior to stay true to God's Word.	2004-03-02
US	25627892	R2720HDPPTZV5P	158134077X	875810972	Ashamed of the Gospel: When the Church Becomes Like the World	Books	4	2	5	N	N	Wrong Purpose Driving the Church	Spurgeon admonished his flock about the dangers of moving away from historic positions of biblical Christianity. John MacArthur is disturbed that many local bodies of God's church have moved and continue to move away from historic positions in the faith. Not out of conviction that the historic positions are false or inconsistent with the bible, but out of  fear such teaching will keep people away from the church building. Doctrines are avoided so people will not be offended or bored.  John MacArthur thinks many a member of a mega-church is ignorant of scriptural truth. These individuals do not know what was taught by Jesus or Paul. They do not know what the bible contains.<br /><br />  Pragmatism rules the church today. What is preached, what is song, and whatever else the local church does is determined by the effect it has in attracting and retaining people in the church building. Utilitarianism, whatever is useful in bringing higher numbers of people into the building and having them come back is the ideal. John MacArthur argues many a church lack critical analysis in what their members believe. Do those who attend their services grow in the knowledge of God? The church's only legitament goal is to equip the saints for service in the building up of the body of Christ.<br /><br />  And his gifts were that some should be apostles, some prophets, some evangelists, some pastors and teachers,to equip the saints for the work of ministry, for building up the body of Christ, until we all attain to the unity of the faith and of the knowledge of the Son of God, to mature manhood, to the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ;  so that we may no longer be children, tossed to and for and carried about with every wind of doctrine, by the cunning of men, by their craftiness in deceitful wiles. Rather, speaking the truth in love, we are to grow up in every way into him who is the head, into Christ,  from whom the whole body, joined and knit together by every joint with which it is supplied, when each part is working properly, makes bodily growth and upbuilds itself in love.  Ephesians 4:11-16<br /><br />  Keeping it real  is never a problem when a preacher keeps to preaching God's word. John MacArthur  argues the word of God is more relevant than anything that can come out of the wisdom of man. Scripture reproofs you by showing your sinfulness,instructs one to repent, teaches the believer how to follow Christ, and builds the individual up in God's way.John MacArthur also details Paul's instruction to Timothy. He presents this as instruction to how a pastor should lead the local congregation.<br /><br />  and how from childhood you have been acquainted with the sacred writings which are able to instruct you for salvation through faith in Christ Jesus. All scripture is inspired by God and profitable for teaching, for reproof, for correction, and for training in righteousness, that the man of God may be complete, equipped for every good work.<br /> (2 Timothy 3:15-17)<br /><br />  No need for a message not based on solid doctrine, because it is a felt need.  John MacArthur argues this in the end it diminishes the doctrinal training of those inside the church. Contextualism is the altering the message to the audience. Often this means not talking about the wrath of God and Hell. God's message should convict men of their sins and call them to repentance. John MacArthur argues first Corinthians chapter nine is about how Paul deprived himself so he could be used by God to bring men to Christ.<br /><br />  John MacArthur quotes often from Charles Spurgeon and at length tells how Charles Spurgeon struggled against the Down Grade of Theology. The movement away from the<br />clear meaning of scripture. Also included in the book is an explanation how modernism and higher critical thought have ruined the training of ministers in the Universities.<br /><br />  Have You always had a goal to build a large church? Should a pastor have a goal ofleading a large congregation? John MacArthur argues no; it is Jesus job to build His church.<br /><br />  A Song of Ascents. Of Solomon. Unless the LORD builds the house, those who build it labor in vain. Unless the LORD watches over the city, the watchman stays awake in vain.<br /> (Psalms 127:1 RSV)<br /><br />  And he said to them, \\"Go into all the world and preach the gospel to the whole creation.  (Mark 16:15 RSV)goal of leading a large congregation? John MacArthur argues no; it is Jesus job to build His church.<BR><br />  A Song of Ascents. Of Solomon. Unless the LORD builds the house, those who build it labor in vain. Unless the LORD watches over the city, the watchman stays awake in vain. <BR> (Psalms 127:1 RSV)<BR><br />  And he said to them, \\"Go into all the world and preach the gospel to the whole creation.  (Mark 16:15 RSV)	2004-02-25
US	25627892	R2CFDXC0J44LMZ	0802409067	840732515	Who Are You to Judge?	Books	4	27	31	N	N	Discernment is to judge?	Discernment is the ability to recognize the truth and distinguish it from error. This work is a call for discernment. One learns the truth from the word of God. To discern, one makes a \\"judgment\\" what is consistent with the bible and what is \\"error\\". In John MacArthur's endorsement, states that there is a crying need in today's church for discernment. Each individual person in the body of Christ needs to study God's word, learn the truth, examine oneself for rebellion against God, and learn how to react properly to false teaching and ungodly living in this world.<br /><br />  Lutzer argues misguided tolerance plagues the Christian church today. That there is a disconnect between people who accept the authority of scripture and how they live their daily lives. Knowing the truth and living the Truth is paramount to the body of Christ. Lutzer uses Jesus' prayer for His disciples, recorded in John chapter 17, to illustrate his point. In the prayer Jesus prays for those who are His. He describes the disciples as holding the truth, being in the world, but not of the world. This is a definition to whom a Christian is. This is prayer for protection from sin not hardship. That Christ's followers would persevere through physical and mental hardship (temptation that comes from living in a sinful world).<br />  Lutzer argues the context of the scripture: Do not Judge:<br />  \\"Judge not, that you be not judged. For with the judgment you pronounce you will be judged, and the measure you give will be the measure you get. (Matthew 7:1-2 RSV)<br /><br /> \\"Do not give dogs what is holy; and do not throw your pearls before swine, lest they trample them under foot and turn to attack you. (Matthew 7:6 RSV)<br /><br /> \\"Beware of false prophets, who come to you in sheep's clothing but inwardly are ravenous wolves. (Matthew 7:15 RSV)<br /><br />  Who is a dog? Who is a swine? Who is a false prophet? Is not Jesus asking the believer to examine and make determinations about people? To be able do this one must make determinations about truth, who holds the truth, and who is seeking to teach the truth.<br /><br />  Matthew 7:3-5 tells us to take the log out of our own eye before attempting to take the speck out of someone else's eye. Meaning one needs to evaluate ones own sinfulness first, repent, and move away from the sinfulness before making determinations about others. Lutzer also argues that not doing this first will actually make you more judgmental and a harsher critic of others.<br /><br />  An accurate picture of God starts with studying the Bible and being taught the word of God. To be able to discern correct theology and false theology.<br />  What one believes determines:<br /><br />  (1) How one thinks of himself.<br />  (2) How one thinks of others.<br />  (3) Ones purpose in life<br />  (4) Determines one's existence in the afterlife.<br /><br /> For the time is coming when people will not endure sound teaching, but having itching ears they will accumulate for themselves teachers to suit their own likings, (2 Timothy 4:3 RSV)<br /><br /> But false prophets also arose among the people, just as there will be false teachers among you, who will secretly bring in destructive heresies, even denying the Master who bought them, bringing upon themselves swift destruction. (2 Peter 2:1 RSV)<br /> First of all you must understand this, that no prophecy of scripture is a matter of one's own interpretation, (2 Peter 1:20 RSV)<br /><br />  Dr. Lutzer instructs about false prophets (any false teacher) and how to discern their teachings as false. Three examples a theology that justify accumulation of wealth, cater to the pride of 'God's' spokesman, and a context where immorality will flourish. The is one type of heretic.<br /> The second is described in First Corinthians 11:19. For there must be heresies among you that they which are approved are made manifest among you. This is the New American standard version. The revised standard version uses the word faction. This was a division caused in the church by the wealthy consuming more food for the Lord's supper then the poor. This type of division in God's church is considered a heresy. See also Galations 5:6.<br /><br /> In their case the god of this world has blinded the minds of the unbelievers, to keep them from seeing the light of the gospel of the glory of Christ, who is the likeness of God. (2 Corinthians 4:4 RSV)<br /><br />  Lutzer argues the Christian parent is often in 'cahoots' with the god of this world. When the parent does not edit what their children view on the television, hear or read. Also included in text is a discussion what adults should permit themselves view in television, the movies, and the occult. Do not let the world corrode your own soul or the children in your charge. Parents should be able to explain their 'tastes' are determined by what is pleasing to God. Lutzer argues that resistance to sin is lessen when Christians laugh at homosexuality, adultery, and incest. This often is the aim of the entertainment industry.<br /><br /> but test everything; hold fast what is good, abstain from every form of evil. May the God of peace himself sanctify you wholly; and may your spirit and soul and body be kept sound and blameless at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. (1 Thessalonians 5:21-23 RSV)<br /><br />  Lutzer concludes his work on judging discussing Christian integrity. He does not say it, but through implication a warning for Christians to not allow logs to get lodged into their eyes. First is an analysis about Christian organizations that misrepresent their influence, size of their membership, exaggerate stories to raise money, and/or are to driven by sales. He also argues against positive only ministries and failure to point out false teachers. Lutzer discusses Characteristic of a person of integrity: speaking the truth, honor friendship, keeping commitments, refuse to take advantage of others, and is not for sale.division caused in the church by the wealthy consuming more food for the Lord's supper then the poor. This type of division in God's church is considered a heresy. See also Galations 5:6.<BR><br /> In their case the god of this world has blinded the minds of the unbelievers, to keep them from seeing the light of the gospel of the glory of Christ, who is the likeness of God. (2 Corinthians 4:4 RSV)<BR><br />   Lutzer argues the Christian parent is often in 'cahoots' with the god of this world. When the parent does not edit what their children view on the television, hear or read. Also included in text is a discussion what adults should permit themselves view in television, the movies, and the occult. Do not let the world corrode your own soul or the children in your charge. Parents should be able to explain their 'tastes' are determined by what is pleasing to God. Lutzer argues that resistance to sin is lessen when Christians laugh at homosexuality, adultery, and incest. This often is the aim of the entertainment industry.<BR><br /> but test everything; hold fast what is good, abstain from every form of evil. May the God of peace himself sanctify you wholly; and may your spirit and soul and body be kept sound and blameless at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. (1 Thessalonians 5:21-23 RSV)<BR><br />   Lutzer concludes his work on judging discussing Christian integrity. He does not say it, but through implication a warning for Christians to not allow logs to get lodged into their eyes. First is an analysis about Christian organizations that misrepresent their influence, size of their membership, exaggerate stories to raise money, and/or are to driven by sales. He also argues against positive only ministries and failure to point out false teachers. Lutzer discusses Characteristic of a person of integrity: speaking the truth, honor friendship, keeping commitments, refuse to take advantage of others, and is not for sale.	2004-02-15
US	25627892	RJVQGGWFK30	0849960320	376591363	Our Sufficiency in Christ	Books	5	9	10	N	N	El Shaddai  &quot;The All Suffient One&quot;	Not that we are competent of ourselves to claim anything as coming from us; our competence is from God,  (2 Corinthians 3:5 RSV)<br />  John MacArthur argues that many local churches and God's followers do not trust in the sufficiency in Christ.  The minister believes in the authority of God's word; They believe in salvation through the blood of Jesus Christ and as a guide for righteous living. They lose patience in the word and start thinking something else is needed to bring others to Christ. Neither do they trust God's word in their daily lives: seeking other sources to help themselves and others when misfortune and difficulties come in their lives. Something other then God and His written word is sought. Christian ministers have sought the use of secular psychology to help their flock deal with the daily grind.  Accepting \\"the notion scripture does not contain all we need in these complex and sophisticated modern times.\\" pg. 117 It does not end here, but many local bodies seek resources though secular business, the government, politics and entertainment.<br /><br />  (.... traditional counseling from the bible is widely viewed as unsophisticated, naive, and even fatuous.\\") pg.30  In addition John MacArthur asks the question: \\"Does God need a psychiatrist\\"? pg. 55 He replies with a strong no. Psychiatry  is part of the world's philosophy and not of God. He further argues that `Christian psychology' is little more then using bits of scripture in secular psychology.<br /><br />  Him we proclaim, warning every man and teaching every man in all wisdom, that we may present every man mature in Christ.<br />(Colossians 1:28 RSV)<br /><br />  See to it that no one makes a prey of you by philosophy and empty deceit, according to human tradition, according to the elemental spirits of the universe, and not according to Christ.<br />(Colossians 2:8 RSV)<br /><br />  The Bible talks about Christian struggle because of his belief, temptation, and the frailty of the earthly body. God has always used suffering to perfect and purify His people.  How else can he demonstrate the sufficiency of His Grace. Jesus came into the world to live as man, to suffer the daily indignities of a man, to be tempted as all other men, and to suffer like a sinner. How are you as a Christian to be Christ like if the believer does not use the same tools used in His daily walk? A symbiosis exists between the believer and God. God is at work in the believer through the Holy Spirit  and the believer most strive through his daily life to be holy. The Holy Spirit is your comforter while you as a Christian walk on this earth.<br /><br />  And we desire each one of you to show the same<br />earnestness in realizing the full assurance of hope until the end,  so that you may not be sluggish, but imitators of those who through faith and patience inherit the promises.<br /> (Hebrews 6:11-12 RSV)<br /><br />Suffering conforms our sonship<br /><br />  And have you forgotten the exhortation which addresses you as sons? --&quot;My son, do not regard lightly the discipline of the Lord, nor lose courage when you are punished by him.  For the Lord disciplines him whom he loves, and chastises every son whom he receives.&quot;  It is for discipline that you have to endure. God is treating you as sons; for what son is there whom his father does not discipline?  If you are left without discipline, in which all have participated, then you are illegitimate children and not sons. (Hebrews 12:5-8 RSV)<br /><br />  No discipline, one is an illegitimate child of God. Contentment and joy does come from circumstance but through the Holy Spirit. ` And you became imitators of us and of the Lord, for you received the word in much affliction, with joy inspired by the Holy Spirit;'<br />  (1 Thessalonians 1:6 RSV)<br /><br />  John MacArthur argues that the Joy of the Lord cannot come from the means of this world nor can the Body of Christ be built through the wisdom of this world. The church isto magnify God.  The plain gospel is the power of God unto salvation. All messages should be God centered and not centered on the heart felt needs of man. Let God's word tell man what he needs: repentance, God's forgiveness, and to reconciled with the Father. Church is not there for man's felt wishes. The local body does not exist for the unbeliever. Christians come together  for worship, fellowship, edification and mutual encouragement. Paul's goal was not to make the believer comfortable, but to leave him terrified of the judgment of God. Paul did not help a person with  their `perceived need', but with their eternal need of salvation.<br /><br />  Therefore, my beloved, as you have always obeyed, so now, not only as in my presence but much more in my absence, work out your own salvation with fear and trembling;  for God is at work in you, both to will and to work for his good pleasure.<br /> (Philippians 2:12-13 RSV)<br /><br />  One is saved through the power of Jesus Christ, but? Him we proclaim, warning every man and teaching every man in all wisdom, that we may present every man mature in Christ.<br />(Colossians 1:28 RSV)<br /><br />  How is the Christian to present himself complete in Christ if he does not flee from sin? It is only through the sufficiency of Christ and the Holy Spirit may the believer withstand temptation. This is how one grows into a closer relationship with God.The plain gospel is the power of God unto salvation. All messages should be God centered and not centered on the heart felt needs of man. Let God's word tell man what he needs: repentance, God's forgiveness, and to reconciled with the Father. Church is not there for man's felt wishes. The local body does not exist for the unbeliever. Christians come together  for worship, fellowship, edification and mutual encouragement. Paul's goal was not to make the believer comfortable, but to leave him terrified of the judgment of God. Paul did not help a person with  their `perceived need', but with their eternal need of salvation. <BR><BR>  Therefore, my beloved, as you have always obeyed, so now, not only as in my presence but much more in my absence, work out your own salvation with fear and trembling;    for God is at work in you, both to will and to work for his good pleasure. <BR> (Philippians 2:12-13 RSV)<BR><br />  One is saved through the power of Jesus Christ, but? Him we proclaim, warning every man and teaching every man in all wisdom, that we may present every man mature in Christ.  <BR>(Colossians 1:28 RSV)<BR><br />  How is the Christian to present himself complete in Christ if he does not flee from sin? It is only through the sufficiency of Christ and the Holy Spirit may the believer withstand temptation. This is how one grows into a closer relationship with God.	2004-01-31
US	25627892	R15NNCD3U3H60D	0802416497	750418843	Christ Among Other gods: A Defense of Christ in an Age of Tolerance	Books	5	11	13	N	N	The God, No Other	Erwin Lutzer's book titled Christ Among Many gods is similar to Ravi Zacharias' book titled Jesus Among Other Gods. Both are attacks on religious relativeness. My preference is Lutzer's work. Ravi Zacharias starts his book talking his life's journey before accepting Jesus as His own Savior. His approach is less analytical and more anecdotal. Lutzer does use his own fairly recent encounters with those who believe in religious relativeness and his response to those who hold this contrary view. Lutzer's work is more scholarly.<br /><br />  How does one want to perceive Jesus: mere man or God? To believe scripture or to cast Him differently? Does one want to incorporate Jesus into other belief  systems? Those who preach relativeness seek to portray Jesus as mere man or to portray him as one of many gods. Scripture depicts a different Jesus. Jesus is the Christ because He is God who became man while staying God. Not a god but the only God; Lutzer argues that Jesus Christ cannot be incorporated into another belief system.<br /><br />  Who is the liar but he who denies that Jesus is the Christ? This is the antichrist, he who denies the Father and the Son.  (1 John 2:22 RSV)<br /><br />  Lutzer talks about the activity of some to fuse different religious beliefs together. They want to create a global village where those from different \\"religious traditions\\" can get along. To believe one has a choice in determining who his god is. Four rules in such a thought process [a] Traditions (no doctrines of truth)[b] spirituality ( may retain one's particular religion, move \\"beyond into a spirituality inclusive of other religions. [c] No religion is superior [d]no evangelism or proselytizing.<br /><br />  Lutzer argues that Tolerance is the idol. He argues Christians should have a Legal Tolerance ( no coercion into making others believe as we do) and Social Tolerance ( A commitment to respecting all men even when one vigorously disagree with their religion and ideas) . But Christians should never have Uncritical Tolerance ( avoiding vigorous debate, because one does not believe he has no right to defend morality, religion, or respect for human life). Thus Tolerance becomes the faith (religion). Only through uncritical thought  can the `peaceful' `co-existance' of religion and syncretism (beliefs can mindlessly be combined)<br /><br />  Jesus then said to the Jews who had believed in him, &quot;If you continue in my word, you are truly my disciples,  and you will know the truth, and the truth will make you free.&quot;  (John 8:31-32 RSV)<br /><br />  Lutzer argues Jesus is the one who provided us the truth. The truth is available through the Bible. Truth is independent on what an individual may perceive, believe or want. Truth is universal. God is not capable of self contradiction. God cannot deny and affirm the same thing in the same way and at the same time. There are many ways to be wrong but there is only one way to be right.<br /><br />  He further argues all false teaching agree with the doctrines of the anti-Christ; Namely the perfectibility of human nature, capability to reach a vision of a utopia through collective effort. Let us just come together , minimizing our differences and accentuating our similarities. Thus they would argue a future prosperity and peace awaits us.<br /><br />  &quot;Do not think that I have come to bring peace on earth; I have not come to bring peace, but a sword.  (Matthew 10:34 RSV)<br /><br />  Peace I leave with you; my peace I give to you; not as the world gives do I give to you. Let not your hearts be troubled, neither let them be afraid.<br />(John 14:27 RSV)<br /><br />  I have said this to you, that in me you may have peace. In the world you have tribulation; but be of good cheer, I have overcome the world.&quot;  (John 16:33 RSV)<br /><br />  One must reject the word of God and Christ's teachings to participate in the movement of uncritical tolerance. To `believe' all religion is essentially the same,one must reject scripture. Jesus claimed preeminence, He claimed to be God and there to be no other god.<br /><br />  Lutzer argues that faith in it of itself is not a meritorious act; the merit is in the One to whom the faith is directed to.  For by grace you have been saved through faith; and this is not your own doing, it is the gift of God--not because of works, lest any man should boast.  (Ephesians 2:8-9 RSV)<br /><br />  for although they knew God they did not honor him as God or give thanks to him, but they became futile in their thinking and their senseless minds were darkened.  Claiming to be wise, they became fools,  and exchanged the glory of the immortal God for images resembling mortal man or birds or animals or reptiles.  (Romans 1:21-23 RSV)<br /><br />Lutzer argues other religions resulted from man's rebellion against God, so they attempt  to seek another way.<br /><br />  No, I imply that what pagans sacrifice they offer to demons and not to God. I do not want you to be partners with demons.  You cannot drink the cup of the Lord and the cup of demons. You cannot partake of the table of the Lord and the table of demons.  (1 Corinthians 10:20-21 RSV)<br /><br />Lutzer argues that `pagans' (those who choose another message) are not worshipping God in their own way but demons. The two should not be mixed together. In the book is an extensive arguments against `Christian' theologians who make arguments to the contrary.one must reject scripture. Jesus claimed preeminence, He claimed to be God and there to be no other god. <BR><br />  Lutzer argues that faith in it of itself is not a meritorious act; the merit is in the One to whom the faith is directed to.  For by grace you have been saved through faith; and this is not your own doing, it is the gift of God--not because of works, lest any man should boast.  (Ephesians 2:8-9 RSV)<BR><BR><br />    for although they knew God they did not honor him as God or give thanks to him, but they became futile in their thinking and their senseless minds were darkened.    Claiming to be wise, they became fools,    and exchanged the glory of the immortal God for images resembling mortal man or birds or animals or reptiles.  (Romans 1:21-23 RSV)<BR><BR><br />Lutzer argues other religions resulted from man's rebellion against God, so they attempt  to seek another way.<BR><br />  No, I imply that what pagans sacrifice they offer to demons and not to God. I do not want you to be partners with demons.    You cannot drink the cup of the Lord and the cup of demons. You cannot partake of the table of the Lord and the table of demons.  (1 Corinthians 10:20-21 RSV)<BR><br />Lutzer argues that `pagans' (those who choose another message) are not worshipping God in their own way but demons. The two should not be mixed together. In the book is an extensive arguments against `Christian' theologians who make arguments to the contrary.<BR>	2004-01-24
US	25627892	R1I9C4O6WHLENV	0849943272	403659288	Jesus Among Other Gods: The Absolute Claims of the Christian Message	Books	3	6	23	N	N	Wandering Truth	Jesus among other Gods - the absolute claims of the Christian message. The thesis of the book is to show the claims of Jesus are unique. To show Jesus claimed to be God and is God. The stated intention of the author is to compare Christianity to three major World views: Hinduism, Buddhism, and Islam. Statement of the claims is clear and argued thoroughly. Comparison is often brief; Often less then a page is given to comparing the other World views. The author does not deal with misconceptions these view points have about Christ nor those in Christendom. The book deals more with atheism then with the other three world views.<br /><br />  The author describes Buddhism as a nontheistic faith if not atheistic. Dr. Zacharias describes Hinduism as a religion with a multifaceted belief system which vehemently attacks the exclusivity of any  religion. Jesus claimed that we can personally know God and the absolute nature of His truth. This agnostics would deny. Islam denies man's ability to \\"personally\\" know God. The agnostic denies man's ability to know God at all. the author begs his reader make a determination what world view has a monopoly of the truth.<br /><br />  The first question put to Jesus is where He lived? Jesus answered Nathaniel by saying come and see. The response to Nathaniel is a claim to a nonearthly home but of Heaven. It is a piece of the puzzle in Jesus claiming deity. The author calls this positioned by transcendence:<br /><br />  If I have told you earthly things and you do not believe, how can you believe if I tell you heavenly things?  (John 3:12 RSV)<br /><br />Jesus point of Reality is Heaven. The Disciples and all mankind's point of reality is earth.<br /><br />Jesus had no starting point, no beginning. His human birth explains this, the word became flesh. Conception without Consummation, born of a woman, but no seed of man. Jesus was not of this World but was born in it. Being of Heaven Jesus did not sin.<br /><br />Second question:  The Jews then said to him, &quot;What sign have you to show us for doing this?&quot;  (John 2:18 RSV)<br /><br />Answer  Jesus answered them, &quot;Destroy this temple, and in three days I will raise it up.&quot;  (John 2:19 RSV)<br /><br />  But he spoke of the temple of his body. When therefore he was raised from the dead, his disciples remembered that he had said this;and they believed the scripture and the word which Jesus had spoken.<br />(John 2:21-22 RSV)<br /><br />The response is to those who do not want to know Jesus as the Messiah or as God. In this chapter is an argument against religious relativeness. it is not a matter what works for you, but what is the truth. The author titled this chapter the  Anatomy of Faith Quest for Reason. Scripture does not demand blind Faith, but a well reasoned faith based on the truth. Faith is a confidence in the person Jesus and His power. Even when the power does not serve the believers end. Faith is based on who Jesus claimed to be and the Truth of His statements.<br /><br />  Question Three: Unless you drink my blood eat My body you will have no part of me? Jesus is the Bread of Life. No one can have eternal life without repenting and accepting Jesus as proprietion for one's sins. Proprietion came through Jesus dying on the cross and His resurrection from the dead. In this all believers are partakers of the body and blood of Jesus. The Lord's Supper is a reminder to the believer of this fact. I should think of my God being tortured, humiliated by sinners, treated as a sinner, and dying on the Cross. The bread and \\"wine\\" are not the actual substance of  Christ, but I must acknowledge my need of them to be saved. I am damned without Him dying on the Cross. I am the source of  my God suffering. The author spends to much time on saying the bread and wine are not the actual physical body and blood of Christ.<br /><br />  Question Four: Is God the source of  my suffering? The author does not discuss much about man's implication in suffering. Pain came into the world because of Adam's sin. I deserve to suffer because I sin. It is through God's grace I do not suffer more. The author does point to the whole chapter John nine and the man blinded since birth. Which is good. He does compare other world views about suffering.  The author argues many theorize that Man's subjectivity determines evil. In this course there is no objective definition of evil. The Christian believes God communicates to us what is evil through scripture. Evil is contrary to God's goodness. Dr. Zacharias argues the Christian view is the most thorough its arguments why man suffers.<br /><br />  Question Five:  Pilate entered the praetorium again and called Jesus, and said to him, &quot;Are you the King of the Jews?&quot;  (John 18:33 RSV)<br /><br />  Jesus answered, &quot;My kingship is not of this world; if my kingship were of this world, my servants would fight, that I might not be handed over to the Jews; but my kingship is not from the world.&quot;  Pilate said to him, &quot;So you are a king?&quot; Jesus answered, &quot;You say that I am a king. For this I was born, and for this I have come into the world, to bear witness to the truth. Every one who is of the truth hears my voice.&quot;  (John 18:35b-37 RSV)<br /><br />The Kingdom is establish through death and resurrection. God calls believers to proclaim the truth through ordinary speech.<br /><br />  Question Six: Where is the Gardener<br />  The author discusses that the world was created by design and not by chance. That God is the ultimate Gardener.  The designer of all creation. The earth and all the Universe do not exist through chance. God is sovergn.e into the world because of Adam's sin. I deserve to suffer because I sin. It is through God's grace I do not suffer more. The author does point to the whole chapter John nine and the man blinded since birth. Which is good. He does compare other world views about suffering.  The author argues many theorize that Man's subjectivity determines evil. In this course there is no objective definition of evil. The Christian believes God communicates to us what is evil through scripture. Evil is contrary to God's goodness. Dr. Zacharias argues the Christian view is the most thorough its arguments why man suffers.<BR><BR>  Question Five:     Pilate entered the praetorium again and called Jesus, and said to him, &quot;Are you the King of the Jews?&quot;  (John 18:33 RSV)<BR><br />  Jesus answered, &quot;My kingship is not of this world; if my kingship were of this world, my servants would fight, that I might not be handed over to the Jews; but my kingship is not from the world.&quot;    Pilate said to him, &quot;So you are a king?&quot; Jesus answered, &quot;You say that I am a king. For this I was born, and for this I have come into the world, to bear witness to the truth. Every one who is of the truth hears my voice.&quot;  (John 18:35b-37 RSV)<BR><BR>The Kingdom is establish through death and resurrection. God calls believers to proclaim the truth through ordinary speech.<BR><br />  Question Six: Where is the Gardener<br />  The author discusses that the world was created by design and not by chance. That God is the ultimate Gardener.  The designer of all creation. The earth and all the Universe do not exist through chance. God is sovergn.	2004-01-10
US	25627892	R1PA52XDMZ8IVF	0801064686	717029646	A Better Way: Rediscovering the Drama of God-Centered Worship	Books	5	14	23	N	N	Old Testament Jesus	Michael Horton is editor of Modern Reformation. The magazine comes out every other month. It is devoted to bring a new reformation to the evangelical churches today. Each issue concentrates on a different doctrinal truth and how churches of today have moved away from that teaching. The magazine argues for systematic theology which today's culture pulls many a Christian from studying or discovering. The author of this book believes the Christian Faith is being dumbed down.<br /><br />  Jesus Christ is the central character of the whole Bible. The human writers of the Old Testament did not  comprehend, but God knew.The Holy Spirit breathed both the Old and New Testament. God is the ultimate author of all scripture. The Law, man's rebellion against God, animal sacrafice, and prophecy all point to Jesus Christ.  The Author states what is less clear in the Old testament is made clear through the revelation of the New Testament.<br /><br />  And he said to them, &quot;O foolish men, and slow of heart to believe all that the prophets have spoken! Was it not necessary that the Christ should suffer these things and enter into his glory?&quot;  And beginning with Moses and all the prophets, he interpreted to them in all the scriptures the things concerning himself.  (Luke 24:25-27 RSV)<br /><br />  The author's explicit thesis:<br /><br />  God has promised to save and keep His people through means he has appointed and through no other; the ordaining means of grace are limited to the preached word and the sacraments.<br /><br />  Worship ought to focus on God. All praise should be to God for who He is, what He has accomplished, and what He will do. Worship is a response to God. The author quoted from the Heidelberg Catechism: that God wants His people instructed by the living Word.....} If the people were not up to speed the answer was to get them up to speed, not accommodate the degenerating condition.<br /><br />  Scriptural Reading recommendation,  Nehemiah 8:1-8<br /><br />This scripture tells us the word of God was read and explained. The book of Hebrews explains the coming from the old covenant to the new. The word church comes from the Greek word ekklesia meaning shared. But the primary or chief concern of the church is not to build community, to enjoy fellowship ,or  to have moral instruction for children. The primary or chief concern is worship our Creator for being the chosen, redeemed, justified, and sanctified, until one day we will be glorified in heaven. Therefore the gathering should not be out of habit, social custom or heart felt needs. As John the Baptist declared: Behold the Lamb of God to take away our sins. God provided the means to wash away our sins through Christ's sinless life, death and resurrection. Therefore the gathering should be a shared praise and worship for His Grace and long suffering.<br /><br />The author further argues that praise should be object centered: God and His saving work in Christ. Not subject centered praise; lyrics of songs should not concentrate on what we are doing. An example of subject praise is the hymn: In the Garden . He walks with me He talks with and tells me I am His very own.<br />  Therefore, brethren, since we have confidence to enter the<br />sanctuary by the blood of Jesus, by the new and living way which he opened for us through the curtain, that is, through his flesh, and since we have a great priest over the house of God, let us draw near with a true heart in full assurance of faith, with our hearts sprinkled clean from an evil conscience and our bodies washed with pure water. Let us hold fast the confession of our hope without wavering, for he who promised is faithful; and let us consider how to stir up one another to love and good works, not neglecting to meet together, as is the habit of some, but encouraging one another, and all the more as you see the Day drawing near.<br />(Hebrews 10:19-25 RSV)<br /> Scriptual recommendations: Romans 10:5-8, 13-15, 17;<br />Faithcomes by hearing the word of God. The author argues that the sermon is central to worship. It must be about the word of God and not pop culture. through communion and Baptism God conveys His grace through the common elements water, bread, and Wine(or grape juice). God summons His people together for this purpose. Michael Horton argues you most know the things of God to know God. Faith is the sole means of justification. Faith comes through the hearing of the word.<br /><br />  For, &quot;every one who calls upon the name of the Lord will be<br />saved.&quot;  But how are men to call upon him in whom they have not<br />believed? And how are they to believe in him of whom they have never heard? And how are they to hear without a preacher? And how can men preach unless they are sent? As it is written, &quot;How beautiful are the feet of those who preach good news!&quot;  (Romans 10:13-15 RSV)<br /><br />Michael Horton argues that acceptance of authority even God is abnormal. Cutting ones path apart from everyone even God is normal. An individual cheat himself when he tries to reshape God instead of allowing God to reshape him. A church/worship service should reconstitute the individual life into a Christian life. A new script to an individuals  life. Purpose, identity hopes should be conformed by the word and Spirit.<br /><br />Spacialization of Heaven<br /><br />Two Different Realms of Existence<br /><br />Present Rule of Sin and Death<br /><br /> vs.<br /> Coming realm of Consumation<br /><br />Those Who Belong to This Age<br /><br />vs.<br /> Those Who Belong to That Age<br /><br />The World is divided between those who belong to Jesus therefore the coming age and those who belong to the world, therefore are doomed in their sins.<br /><br />The author also discusses today's and yesterday's culture. No age has a monopoly on truth. But truth in God's word should be the guide how worship should be structured, not how it attracts unbelievers or pleases the believer.earing the word of God. The author argues that the sermon is central to worship. It must be about the word of God and not pop culture. through communion and Baptism God conveys His grace through the common elements water, bread, and Wine(or grape juice). God summons His people together for this purpose. Michael Horton argues you most know the things of God to know God. Faith is the sole means of justification. Faith comes through the hearing of the word.<BR><BR>    For, &quot;every one who calls upon the name of the Lord will be<BR>saved.&quot;    But how are men to call upon him in whom they have not<BR>believed? And how are they to believe in him of whom they have never heard? And how are they to hear without a preacher? And how can men preach unless they are sent? As it is written, &quot;How beautiful are the feet of those who preach good news!&quot;  (Romans 10:13-15 RSV)<BR><br />Michael Horton argues that acceptance of authority even God is abnormal. Cutting ones path apart from everyone even God is normal. An individual cheat himself when he tries to reshape God instead of allowing God to reshape him. A church/worship service should reconstitute the individual life into a Christian life. A new script to an individuals  life. Purpose, identity hopes should be conformed by the word and Spirit.<BR><br />Spacialization of Heaven<BR><BR>Two Different Realms of Existence<BR><BR>Present Rule of Sin and Death<BR><BR> vs.<BR> Coming realm of Consumation<BR><BR>Those Who Belong to This Age<BR><BR>vs.<BR> Those Who Belong to That Age<BR><BR>The World is divided between those who belong to Jesus therefore the coming age and those who belong to the world, therefore are doomed in their sins.<BR><br />The author also discusses today's and yesterday's culture. No age has a monopoly on truth. But truth in God's word should be the guide how worship should be structured, not how it attracts unbelievers or pleases the believer.	2004-01-01
US	25627892	R2V42ZN6PC9MN2	0801037042	617426571	Christian Apologetics	Books	4	9	12	N	N	Comprehending The Argument	Christian Apologetics written by Norman L. Geisler is not an easy read. Twenty years ago I had taken an introductory class in philosophy. My readings included Berkley, Kant, Hume , and Decartes. Depending heavily on lecture notes, I received B's in my reports. I have also listened to R.C. Sproul's series on Philosophy titled the Consequences of  Ideas and his serious on Apologetics titled The Consequences of Ideas. I did not read R.C. Sproul's book on apologetics also titled Defending Your Faith. Geisler's book demands a more thorough understanding of critical thought than I have. The book is a text book and may be easier to understand if one has a professor guide a student through Geisler's thoughts, the other theologians thought, and philosophers cited in this book.<br /><br />  This book covers thoughts and philosophies in a couple of pages that the original author of these ideas took hundreds of pages to articulate and defend. Geisler also limits himself to a page or two debunking each theory. Understanding each theory was easier then comprehending the argument against. This despite my own disagreement with the original theory. Geisler's argument I usually read a second time and on occasion a third time before getting some sort of a comprehension and moving on. In the preface, the purpose of this work is to prove Jesus is the Christ and the Bible is the word of God.<br /><br />  The first part of the book deals with methodology; The process in determining the truth through a prior knowledge or lack of knowledge before moving forward. One must know God's attributes before one can make arguments about His existence.  The discussion starts with agnosticism: The ability to know God and some of His attributes. The discusion continues in six different sections about Rationalism, Flideism, Experientialism, Evidentialism, Pragmatism and Combinationalism. These are six different arguments in how to determine truth.<br /><br />  The second part deals with six theories on who God is: Deism, Pantheism, Panentheism, Atheism, and Theism. Geisler calls these World views. Each has its defenders and Geisler discusses philosophers thoughts on each and makes an argument against those accept Theism. Which he defends. Which leads to the third part where he attempts to prove Christianity. By arguing for the existence for the Supernatural, the ability to know history, and the reliability of the Bible.God is: Deism, Pantheism, Panentheism, Atheism, and Theism. Geisler calls these World views. Each has its defenders and Geisler discusses philosophers thoughts on each and makes an argument against those accept Theism. Which he defends. Which leads to the third part where he attempts to prove Christianity. By arguing for the existence for the Supernatural, the ability to know history, and the reliability of the Bible.	2003-12-19
US	25627892	R18PA88VGOHM3E	0801064309	326738463	Answering Islam: The Crescent in Light of the Cross	Books	5	49	55	N	N	Islam:Allah  Jehova	This book is a good read. I have read Geisler's book about Apologetics and that book requires much more concentration for comprehension.<br /><br />  Geisler presents the differences in the Bible believing Christians and Koran believing  Islam's. The book tells of those beliefs generally held by Sunni and Shiite. Shiite believe the leadership flows from Muhammad to Mohammed's grandson et. . The difference between fundamental Islam doctrines are not covered, because doctrinal differences with Christianity are the same. The first two hundred pages is a presentation the two faiths differences ( Christian and Islam ). The rest of the book is the argument about the truth of Christianity.<br /><br />  This book is not about the superiority of Western culture over Middle East Culture. I am pretty sure the author sees none. It is about the source of the two faiths. How the two faiths view God and each others theology. Can  a man living on this earth have a relationship with God? Can God be three persons and yet be one God.? Christianity argues yes. Mohammed said no. How is Jehovah different from Allah? Geisler argues the God of the Old Testament is a much more caring God than the one described in the Koran. The Koran teaches that Allah was the God of Adam, Moses , and Abraham. But it also argues that the Old Testament has been corrupted through time.  Islam clerics argue that the Koran has not.  The point being the Koran argues for a different \\"God\\" and a different truth about Old Testament figures.<br /><br />  Geisler cautions very few passages in the Koran deal with Jesus, but these passages argue that Jesus was a prophet second to Mohammed. That Allah would never allow one of his devoted followers to die such a shameful death. That Allah only made it appear that Jesus died on the cross. Geisler tells about many different arguments that clerics give how the deception was carried out.<br /><br />  Also in the book is the difference in views about the nature of Man's disobedience to God. Evangelical Christians believe man cannot over come his own disobedience through service to God and/or good deeds. Islam teaches that  entry into a spiritual afterlife paradise does depend on man's ability to have more plusses than minuses. One who practices Islam does not believe in a need for a redeemer.<br /><br />  Geisler also details the difference in how the Koran and the Bible were put together.dience to God. Evangelical Christians believe man cannot over come his own disobedience through service to God and/or good deeds. Islam teaches that  entry into a spiritual afterlife paradise does depend on man's ability to have more plusses than minuses. One who practices Islam does not believe in a need for a redeemer.<BR><br />   Geisler also details the difference in how the Koran and the Bible were put together.	2003-12-15
US	25627892	R2NAYZVHW516QP	087552706X	331111050	The Soul's Quest for God: Satisfying the Hunger for Spiritual Communion With God (Sproul, R. C. R.C. Sproul Library.)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Soul = Mind + Heart	Christians often become spiritually hungry, spiritually thirsty, and spiritually naked. R.C. Sproul argues these things happen out of neglect in the Christian walk. The neglect comes with the avoidance of the corporate worship or in the individual's fellowship with God. Corporate worship includes singing praises with other Christians, listening to a message with fellow believers, studying the word with other Christians, or the taking Communion with like believers. Christians  need to take time read scripture and pray to the Creator  of all things. In their daily behavior, Christians need to seek God . Dr. Sproul is not talking about nonChristians or \\"carnal\\" Christians.<br /><br />  R.C. Sproul comtinues the discussion by talking about the mind and the heart. Each has its own primacies. The primacy of the heart is to love God. The primacy of the mind is to know God. To know God one must study the scriptures. To love God one must worship Him. One must know God to love God. Otherwise one is worshipping a false God. To know scripture and not respond with love for God, means that person has no relationship with God. To know the word and not respond is empty. To love God, but not know God is a form of idol worship.<br /><br />  Ezekiel and Jeremiah found the word of God sweat like honey. Others rebelled against the word because they found it bitter. That is why some hear the word but refuse to listen. R.C. Sproul shares many passages from the book of Ezekiel.  Not a description of a happy life. It describes a life of woe because the people sought the wisdom of the World. This message did not bring general acceptance, but Ezekiel was obedient to God in declaring the words of God.<br /><br />  Jesus did not give an easy message to hear. He did not promise an easy life to the Disciples or other believers who followed. John 16:1-4 tells the disciples that they will be persecuted who rationalize they are doing the Will of God.<br /><br />  These things have I spoken unto you, that ye should not be caused to stumble. They shall put you out of the synagogues: yea, the hour cometh, that whosoever killeth you shall think that he offereth service unto God. And these things will they do, because they have not known the Father, nor me. But these things have I spoken unto you, that when their hour is come, ye may remember them, how that I told you. And these things I said not unto you from the beginning, because I was with you.  (John 16:1-4 ASV)<br /><br />  No one can have a right relationship with God without correct doctrine. This does not happen without  earnestly seeking the truth and seeking to do God's Will. One  can know the truth but it is meaningless unless the truth pierces ones soul into one having a \\"right relationship\\" with God.<br /><br />  Jonathon Edwards urged Christians to find the devine excellency of scripture. This is accomplished through the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit works with you as you study the word and having fellow believers challenge your understanding of the word. Scripture is the eternal testimony of the Holy Spirit.<br /><br />  Recipimus \\"we receive\\" No church or man created the cannon of scripture, but we as Christians have received God's Holy word. autopisti \\"self faith\\" The Holy Spirit does not bring new revelation out of the bible. The Holy Spirit reveals to the Christian what mere man could never find. The devine authority and devine character of the word of God known as the bible.<br /><br />  Indicia things that indicate of Bible's divinity. The Holy Spirit illuminates the meaning of scripture, so he can accept Jesus as Savior. Further scripture illuminates the Christian into the word of God, so he can apply it to his daily walk.<br /><br />  The Bible presents models of obedience.{  Be ye imitators of me, even as I also am of Christ.  (1 Corinthians 11:1 ASV)}<br /><br />R.C. Sproul discusses the duality of man. Man exist in Body and Soul. The Soul is the self. While on earth the soul inhabits the body. To seek God's will is to feed the soul - not the body.<br /> { And be not afraid of them that kill the body, but are not able to kill the soul: but rather fear him who is able to destroy both soul and body in hell.  (Matthew 10:28 ASV)}<br /><br />  The word of God the Bible is the chief means to feed the soul. To exhort and instruct in the word of God is a high calling. To be used by the Holy Spirit to illuminate others about the meaning of the Bible To give the soul understanding. So the self while in the human body can seek the will of God. This furthers man's ability to worship God.<br /><br />The soul is not fed through physical food nor exercised through cardiac behavior. One feeds the Soul by reverencing God -giving proper weight to whom God is- and by forsaking other \\"gods\\". One feeds the soul through prayer(adoration, supplication, thanksgiving) along with preparation of the heart in a right and godly manner. The is exercised through godly fellowship with like believers.<br /><br />  His divine power has granted to us all things that pertain to life and godliness, through the knowledge of him who called us to his own glory and excellence, by which he has granted to us his precious and very great promises, that through these you may escape from the corruption that is in the world because of passion, and become partakers of the divine nature. For this very reason make every effort to supplement your faith with virtue, and virtue with knowledge, and knowledge with self-control, and self-control with steadfastness, and steadfastness with godliness, and godliness with brotherly affection, and brotherly affection with love. For if these things are yours and abound, they keep you from being ineffective or unfruitful in the knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ. For whoever lacks these things is blind and shortsighted and has forgotten that he was cleansed from his old sins.  (2 Peter 1:3-9 RSV)<br /><br />  R.C. Sproul argues the heart that does repent will not seek God. Only those who have repented and accepted Jesus as Savior who will have a quest for God. To have a relationship with God one must have a quest for the things of God.. To seek God's will is to feed the soul - not the body.<BR> { And be not afraid of them that kill the body, but are not able to kill the soul: but rather fear him who is able to destroy both soul and body in hell.  (Matthew 10:28 ASV)}<BR><br />  The word of God the Bible is the chief means to feed the soul. To exhort and instruct in the word of God is a high calling. To be used by the Holy Spirit to illuminate others about the meaning of the Bible To give the soul understanding. So the self while in the human body can seek the will of God. This furthers man's ability to worship God.<BR><br />The soul is not fed through physical food nor exercised through cardiac behavior. One feeds the Soul by reverencing God -giving proper weight to whom God is- and by forsaking other \\"gods\\". One feeds the soul through prayer(adoration, supplication, thanksgiving) along with preparation of the heart in a right and godly manner. The is exercised through godly fellowship with like believers.<BR><br />  His divine power has granted to us all things that pertain to life and godliness, through the knowledge of him who called us to his own glory and excellence, by which he has granted to us his precious and very great promises, that through these you may escape from the corruption that is in the world because of passion, and become partakers of the divine nature. For this very reason make every effort to supplement your faith with virtue, and virtue with knowledge, and knowledge with self-control, and self-control with steadfastness, and steadfastness with godliness, and godliness with brotherly affection, and brotherly affection with love. For if these things are yours and abound, they keep you from being ineffective or unfruitful in the knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ. For whoever lacks these things is blind and shortsighted and has forgotten that he was cleansed from his old sins.  (2 Peter 1:3-9 RSV)<BR><br />  R.C. Sproul argues the heart that does repent will not seek God. Only those who have repented and accepted Jesus as Savior who will have a quest for God. To have a relationship with God one must have a quest for the things of God.	2003-12-08
US	25627892	R311D4DFPV17M2	0802478468	113954268	Seven Miracles That Should Convince You: The Claims of Christ & Today's Culture	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Miracle Discernment	Erwin Lutzer explores the miracles described in the book of John. He argues God works continuously in this world. But  miracles are works of God that he normally does not use. Acts through the use of weather or medical science are God ordained but cannot be considered miracles. Because those are two means God uses regularly through our daily lives. He further argues the miracles through scripture are there to bring the believer in Christ, a deeper understanding of God.<br />Jesus did many other miraculous signs in the presence of his disciples, which are not recorded in this book. But these are written that you believe Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that by believing you may have life in His name\\". John 20:30-31	2003-11-16
US	25627892	R2L4QO39N82VD	0310205719	36906356	The Purpose Driven Life	Books	4	0	3	N	N	Fluff, But????	I agree mostly with the critics of the book in the reviews I read. But I still recomend this book as a worthy read. Yes all the information is in the bible, but those are the only books about Christianity that are worthy to read. Yes he uses multiple translations. So I would recomend writing down the scripture reference from the end notes before starting to read each chapter. Then looking up the scripture in the King James or the New American Standard Bible or the New English Bible or as the last resort the NIV. More work but a critical read will be more edifying in the end more benificial in your Christian walk. I also keep in mind to work for God's Will and building the Body of Christ as a whole. Do not let your end goal be the local church you serve. Serve the local church as a way to build the whole Body of Christ. Work for the whole Body as a way to worship God. A distinction each of us has to work through with the help of the Holy Spirit. Yes I hope most readers of this book move unto the meat written by John MacArthur, Erwin Lutzer, and RC Sproul, but I do not recommend any new Christian start with these authors either. Please check out R.C. Sprouls Book: The Souls Quest for God.	2003-11-16
