US	25830858	RB4VATJQS9DS5	1594200513	280111251	Oh the Glory of It All	Books	5	4	6	N	N	well-written, scandalous and tragic	Oh the Glory of It All details the author's (Sean Wilsey) truly dysfunctional upbringing in the wealthiest circles of San Francisco society in the '70s and '80s amid a very public divorce between his withholding, philandering father and melodramatic, narcissistic mother.  There is also an evil stepmother who, if even only 25% of the things Wilsey says happened are true, definitely lives up to that title and all it implies.  The book goes on to detail the author's many, many, many mistakes as a child and teenager (including theft, drugs, terrible grades, a series of expulsions, socially maladjusted behavior, etc), the many ways his parents (most specifically, his father and stepmother) attempt to \\"fix\\" these problems to no avail, and the way in which he finally healed himself.  Many of the situations and locales in the book are straight-up insane.  Wilsey's writing is expressive, concise and funny.  The early passages in particular are especially good; the ways in which he remembers and describes things from his early childhood (though some of it is almost certainly embellished or exaggerated) and captures a specific feeling are most impressive.  While the book is quite long and could no doubt be cut in length, it is nevertheless an extremely compulsive read, if only because I couldn't believe that his family life was so horrendous.  Clearly, Wilsey's accounts of certain events (mainly those involving the wicked stepmother) are biased and twisted, but nobody ever said a memoir had to be objective.  There are many cringeworthy moments in the book due to Wilsey's blunt style, but the reader comes away with respect for his accomplishments despite what happened to him in the past.  Highly recommended!	2005-10-12
US	25830858	R2PA8WZH1ZYQAU	1594862958	583837662	New Rules: Polite Musings from a Timid Observer	Books	2	5	10	N	N	not the best format for this type of humor	Bill Maher is a funny, pretty well-informed guy with mainly libertarian views on politics; his blunt style can offend at times (especially all the *extremely* bitter parts about women, marriage and relationships--it sounds like he's still angry over rejection of some kind?), but is usually laugh-out-loud hilarious.  That said, I didn't really like the format of New Rules.  It seemed like too many rapid fire jokes at once; there's a reason the segment on the show \\"Real Time with Bill Maher\\" isn't the *entire* show--it just feels like too much after awhile.  So, while there are some truly funny moments in this book, after awhile the hyper-sarcastic, whiny tone begins to wear thin.  If you want to read a book by Maher, check out When You Ride Alone, You Ride with Bin Laden--it's still a collection of brief observations, but they're more fleshed out and less pedantic.	2005-10-08
US	25830858	R2WO6Z9G3I4688	0465023150	795715955	Selling Women Short: The Landmark Battle for Workers' Rights At Wal-mart	Books	4	2	3	N	N	informative and shocking	Anyone living in the 21st century will be amazed at the content of Selling Women Short; the anecdotes shared by current and former Wal-Mart employees are like something out of Gloria Steinem's worst nightmare circa 1975.  Even in the current litigious climate of corporate America, Wal-Mart manages to succeed at completely indoctrinating its \\"associates\\" to believe in the \\"values\\" of the company, which are as \\"good ole boy\\" as they can get.  Liza Featherstone's account of the Dukes vs. Wal-Mart class action lawsuit (now certified, still unresolved), the largest in U.S. legal history, makes up for in content what it may lack in an elegant writing style (it's a bit bare bones and stilted at times).  The women involved in the lawsuit aren't the typical bleeding-heart liberals that would be easy for Wal-Mart to discredit; they are by and large very religious, relatively conservative women who are trying to get by on very low wages and zero respect.  The consistency with which women have been kept to the lowest paying, lowest power positions within the company is nothing less than appalling; using both ample statistics as well as countless personal interviews, Featherstone assaults the reader with a barrage of terrible realities.  Many of the employees at Wal-Mart cannot afford to spend 50% of their income on the company health plan, so they end up on state or federal assistance.  Women are discouraged from applying to management positions.  If this reading this book does not convince you to boycott Wal-Mart, it would be surprising.	2005-10-06
US	25830858	R2WNKL6STFBXSX	0395944171	543646566	Snobbery: The American Version	Books	4	7	10	N	N	Entertaining and witty	Joseph Epstein's take on snobbery in America is light and entertaining.  There's nothing very academic about his observations or rather small bibliography.  However, this seems intentional on Epstein's part and did not detract from the enjoyment of reading it.  Snobbery in America is an intriguing topic, as America is usually referred to as a \\"classless society\\" when compared to more stratified countries in the \\"old world\\" (England in particular).  Particularly interesting is the rise and fall of WASP-centric culture in America, which has all but disappeared from our collective social radar since the 1960s.  Epstein is very open about sharing his personal biases and prejudices with the reader, which makes the book more intimate as well as less pretentious.  His writing style is very precise and controlled, with biting wit interspersed throughout.  While this is not recommended for anyone doing an academic study on the subject of snobbery, it is an amusing way to spend an afternoon.	2005-09-21
US	25830858	R88ELIEKU86C0	0385511868	174256474	The Friend Who Got Away: Twenty Women's True Life Tales of Friendships that Blew Up, Burned Out or Faded Away	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Universal theme, great writing	Twenty women share their personal accounts of friendships that ended, sometimes by choice, other times by distance, death, money or men.  There are stories of regret and others of relief.  Most interestingly, two writers who used to be best friends each detail the beginning and demise of their relationship from their own perspectives (\\"Emily\\", by Heather Abel, and \\"Heather\\", by Emily Chenoweth).  There isn't a woman alive (or man, for that matter) who hasn't been in the same situation; for whatever reason, a friendship ends.  In our society, which is usually exclusively concerned with the drama and importance of romantic and familial relationships, we don't give much thought to the weight of platonic friendships and there are no easy rules or platitudes upon which to base one's behavior or draw boundaries.  The confusion and ambiguity that envelops such relationships is captured perfectly in the pages of this book.  While it may be difficult to relate to the life circumstances of all the authors (most are upper-middle class white women with Ivy League educations), the emotions that arise from the death of their friendships are not.  Only a few essays contained viewpoints with which I had difficulty empathizing.  Overall, this book tackles a subject that is universal but is usually relegated to the backs of our minds, not widely discussed.  Highly recommended!	2005-09-09
US	25830858	R2TNBF5WAQ43JP	1932416137	91571388	How We Are Hungry: Stories	Books	3	6	10	N	N	Too self-consciously clever	Eggers has a great writing style; understated and simple yet evocative, with an underlying, often very dry, wit.  This is the reason to read How We Are Hungry.  Plot is not a high priority among many of the stories, which would be all right if the so many of the characters didn't come off as laboriously quirky and eccentric.  Weirdness is a good thing when the whole milieu of the story is also weird; when the surrounding world is very boring and pointless, as Eggers so often makes it out to be, the characters seem forced.  There are too many little tricks in some of these stories that annoyed me because they seemed really pretentious:  the foremost example of this is the story \\"There Are Some Things He Should Keep To Himself\\" is one of them--it's just blank pages.  Get it?  If Eggers weren't such a good writer, I would not have finished this book.  There were a few stories that I did thoroughly enjoy, such as \\"Climbing to the Window, Pretending to Dance\\", \\"Your Mother and I\\" and \\"Notes for the Story of a Man Who Will Not Die Alone\\".  This is the first work by Eggers that I've read and perhaps it wasn't the best.	2005-08-18
US	25830858	R1K98HL2Q99RH1	0060987324	831264929	Girlfriend in a Coma	Books	3	1	1	N	N	First half is great, second half not so much	The first half of Girlfriend in a Coma is beautifully written; the style is almost mystical, with only some of the snarkiness so frequently found within Coupland's prose.  The setting of late '70s North Vancouver and the six main characters are believable.  When the main protagonist's (Richard) girlfriend, Karen, goes into a coma at the age of 17, the emotional fallout is realistic and powerful.  The ways in which Richard, his friends and her family react to this devastating event run the gamut from dysfunction to drug abuse to quiet strength.  When Karen wakes up 17 years later, the world has changed in unimaginable ways, though her group of friends has not.  After the initial shock of Karen's \\"rebirth\\", I think the novel takes a sharp downturn.  Karen is portrayed as some kind of otherworldly being with innocent wisdom; while her body may have aged and wasted away, her mind and spirit remained the same as they had the day she slipped into the coma.  In other words, she is a complete outsider who has never seen a cell phone, fax machine or the internet; she missed the AIDS epidemic, the fall of the Berlin Wall and the developing lives of those she loved, including that of her own daughter whom she gave birth to while comatose.  Karen's feelings of impending doom right before she fell into her coma are reawakened after she regains consciousness; consequently, she feels unhappy and apprehensive about the future.  Coupland's tone becomes preachy, moralizing and generally heavyhanded as Karen's prophecies come true; some kind of \\"sleep sickness\\" takes over the world and people begin dying rapidly.  The core group of six friends and their loved ones remain; their dead childhood friend, Jared, comes to them as a ghost and exhorts them to resuscitate the world with a new attitude, as well as performing various miracles, such as impregnating one of the women and giving Karen physical strength again.  As opposed to the heartless, consumerist pragmatism running rampant in the 1990s, they are meant to embody conscious change and rejection of the de-personalization of society.  These ideas struck me as being borderline simplistic and relatively immature.  I found the characters more likeable and complex as teenagers than when they were adults and all emotional messes; every single one of them led a hollow existence and hadn't really developed much as human beings.  Overall, I really liked the first half and just found the ending ridiculous.	2005-08-12
US	25830858	R18QUBEUFPDQ33	006093218X	797079115	The Catsitters	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Three and a half stars	The Catsitters was a very quick read; light and fluffy, which seems to be the author's intent.  The protagonist, Johnny Downs, is a pretty well fleshed-out character, neither good nor evil.  A struggling actor who seems to be muddling through life with no particular direction and little sense of decisiveness, Johnny's relationships with women keep petering out.  After the latest and most humiliating breakup, he allows his closest female friend, Darlene, to groom him into a \\"real man\\" by giving him lots of lectures about what women's behavior *really* means, etc.  While the character of Johnny is believable, the character of Darlene seems to be a bit cliched, though this problematic element is more satisfactorily resolved near the end.  The plot is a bit meandering, which in this case isn't such a bad thing, as there is a lot of action nonetheless, and the characters are well-written for the most part.  Wolcott's take on the acting circuit in NYC is funny and is believable, as this area is where he puts his more famous, snarkier commentary to work.  The emotion and romance never feels too cute, but still doesn't have the same bite as a Hornby novel, as far as stories told from a male perspective.	2005-08-08
US	25830858	R23NDYZPX9OZIH	0375407340	879408147	Miss Wyoming: A Novel	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Entertaining and witty, but too thin on plot	Coupland creates some highly developed characters in Miss Wyoming; Susan, a former child/teen pageant queen turned minor TV celebrity who is currently all washed up, John, a former Hollywood player turned drug addicted hack, and Ryan and Vanessa, two unbelievably smart twentysomethings with too much time on their hands.  Coupland provides in-depth backstories for his characters and makes them sympathetic to the reader, and his observations about L.A. and modern pop culture are often sharp and funny, but the book somehow falls short in the plot.  Normally, books that don't have a chronological arc are written to enhance the plot, but Miss Wyoming feels a bit jerky in this regard.  Coupland spends so much time describing things that happened to the characters years and years ago that don't seem to move things forward.  Three quarters of the way into the book, I wondered where Coupland was going with it; once I was finished, it seemed incomplete.  If you're a fan of Coupland's writing style, you'll probably still enjoy this quick read.  If not, the plot is nothing to write home about.	2005-08-04
US	25830858	R3OTSGG0Q9D2SR	0385512104	459979615	The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time: A Novel (Alex Awards (Awards))	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Unique, funny, believable	The \\"author\\"/narrator of this story is Christopher Boone, a 15-year-old autistic boy who is hyper-logical and has a great degree of difficulty understanding emotions.  Haddon's style of prose never once steps outside Christopher's voice; the book is not exploitative or condescending regarding the narrator's autism.  Instead, it feels extremely realistic; I haven't read a book in quite a long time that has such a unique \\"voice\\".  There's a lot of humor in the book, though nothing that's at the expense of Christopher.  By the end of the novel, it's impossible to view the autistic character as \\"other\\" in any way; everything is filtered through his brain and it becomes easy to identify with his thoughts.  The \\"mystery\\" of the novel is both disturbing and sad (though I will admit I saw both surprises coming), and almost more so when you realize how difficult it is for Christopher to comprehend the magnitude of the dysfunction in his own family.  The characters of his parents are at once realistic and very sympathetic; despite the challenge and occasional frustration at raising an autistic child, both parents are very loving towards their only child, who cannot fully reciprocate their love.   <br />This book is an amazingly quick read.  Highly recommended! <br />	2005-07-28
US	25830858	R33V2GD8PP30VD	0743228154	819450417	Chronicles, Vol. 1	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Evocative and mysterious, like the author	It's no surprise that Bob Dylan's writing style in Chronicles is somewhat similar to his song lyrics--there are painfully blunt, common-sense kind of aphorisms mixed in amid a lot of very imagistic passages and stream-of-consciousness thoughts.  He manages to successfully conjure up another time and place, the feeling of living in NYC circa 1961 when he was struggling to make his voice heard on the folk scene.  This is how the book opens; from there, the path is less clear.  He doesn't write about events in a chronological order, which could be confusing or annoying, but somehow passages flow organically into one another; one minute he's discussing his childhood in Minnesota and the next he's detailing a run-in with a weirdly wise old man in Louisiana in the early 1990s.  There isn't too much personal information, at least not that would be considered \\"juicy gossip\\", although he does write at length at the way it felt to be Bob Dylan in the late 60s, and have the weight of a larger-than-life, almost messianic persona nearly crush him.  It's an engrossing read that goes by almost too quickly.  I'm looking forward to reading volume two.	2005-07-27
US	25830858	R25NTU0KQV73D4	0754022471	944569053	Notes from a Big Country (Paragon Softcover Large Print Books)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Particularly amusing for ex-patriates and Americans living abroad	I'm an American living in Canada and completely identified with a passage from the beginning of Bryson's book which said that you never feel as American in America as you do when you're living in another country.  Upon returning to the States after decades in England, Bryson writes about nearly every aspect of life in America, good and bad, and pretty effectively explains the mostly-love, sometimes-hate relationship some Americans have with their native country.  Much of it is laugh-out-loud funny and Bryson manages to capture some of the nationalistic sentiment without being jingoistic or overly precious. It's an extremely fast read because it was originally published as a series of columns in England.  Highly recommended!	2005-07-16
US	25830858	R5RBGXBYE3CAC	0316920045	669738240	Infinite Jest: A Novel	Books	4	5	8	N	N	DFW creates a completely "other" universe....	The detail contained within this novel is staggering (as one might guess from the sheer heft of the book itself)--the hundred pages or so of footnotes, in tiny print, are amazing.  I found myself marveling, at several points while plowing through this literary monster, at the intricacies of the world DFW has created.  The concept of subsidized time, the slang, the \\"new technology\\" (most of which we already use in our everyday lives today), the political world of North America and the Quebec separatists.... If nothing else, you have to hand it to the author for even being able to come up with the bizarre and creative universe in which the book takes place. <br /> <br />However, if you're someone who has a desperate need for resolution at the ends of books and movies, you may want to steer clear.  There's nothing to give away in that department--no explosive denouement, no shock (except for maybe the fact that you've devoted so many hours to reading the incredibly long novel with infinite plots and realizing there's no way to tie them together).  However, I think the fact that there is no shock is a sort of sly \\"wink\\" by DFW to the reader; after all, one of the main themes in the novel has to do with entertainment--what qualifies as entertainment, how dependent American culture is on entertainment, etc.  Reading a novel is entertainment--so the fact that there's no convenient conclusion ought not upset us, since we've been entertained for hours and hours just by getting through the book.  While his version of American culture may be exaggerated, there is some truth to the notion of living and/or dying for the sake of entertainment.  <br /> <br />If you ever have a chance to read this novel for a college class or a book club, I highly recommend it.  I read it on advice from a friend who finished it and desperately needed someone to talk to about it.  I think by discussing it, there may be more clarity to so much information.   <br /> <br />So, a few suggestions when tackling this novel:  read all the footnotes, esp. the filmography of James Incandenza.  Read the book as quickly as you can while still retaining the insane amount of information--stuff from the beginning ties back to things at the end, and it's frustrating to have to go back when you vaguely remember something from 700 pages earlier being referenced later.  Have a dictionary handy.   <br />All in all, just enjoy the finely-drawn world that the author has created.  Don't expect too much in the way of tying up loose ends.  You won't have the chance to read many books like this one.	2005-05-12
US	25830858	R26NDRXRBS4ALJ	0312315945	993897127	Magical Thinking: True Stories	Books	5	6	9	N	N	Shallow, self-absorbed & mean--but that's the whole point!	In reference to a few of the other reviews that didn't like the book because they feel Augusten Burroughs is immature or cruel or insensitive, I just want to say that, while those are obviously valid opinions, the whole point of the book is that he's shallow and mean.  He admits it multiple times.  That's part of what makes it so funny; he's writing out all the mean things that we all think from time to time but don't ever say.  Granted, some things (like killing a mouse in a long, drawn-out fashion) seem a bit extreme, but I admit it had me laughing out loud, even while I thought it was kind of horrible.   <br />That's the beauty of Burroughs's writing; as with the unbelievably screwed-up childhood memoir Running with Scissors, you laugh even while you cringe.  I guess he's brutally honest to a fault, and while it may make you uncomfortable, I think it's definitely worth it.  His priceless observations about sitting next to a baby on an airplane are reason enough to read the whole book.	2005-02-18
US	25830858	R2KU25HKLDJ3Z9	0316776963	491689172	Me Talk Pretty One Day	Books	5	4	5	N	N	I guarantee you will laugh out loud... a lot	As usual, David Sedaris has written a collection of personal essays that are downright hilarious.  I read this book cover to cover last night and am still laughing the next day any time I think about it.  The first part of the book features essays dealing with his childhood experiences and his colorful, occasionally dysfunctional family (if you haven't, also read Dress Your Family in Corduroy and Denim for more on the Sedaris family--especially his gruff, often belligerent and always foulmouthed brother).  The second part covers the author's early visits to and life in France--his borderline sadistic French teacher, the joy of watching American movies in Paris, and (the best essay in the book) riding the metro with American tourists.   <br />All in all, this is a great book that will put you in a good mood and keep you laughing.	2005-02-17
US	25830858	R16G63HWSFJ3L5	067974195X	775641653	The Death and Life of Great American Cities	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Still relevant after all these years	Jane Jacobs's writing style is straightfoward, confident and evocative of a certain time period--the middle of the twentieth century, when postwar modernization was occurring at a quicker pace than ever before.  Her writing at times is almost like that of a novel, her descriptions of busy city streets nuanced and fleshed-out.  You can easily envision old New York City while reading about the social ballet that occurs in Greenwich Village and Central Park.   <br />While the book was written 40 years ago, it is no less relevant to the problems of American cities today.  The ideas put forth by the author in this seminal work were groundbreaking at the time, and while they seem almost common sense to me, they have, for the most part, been largely ignored (in the sense that few tangible results have spawned) and unimplemented.  The fact that this is the case makes one realize how *slow* in certain respects our culture is to change and how closed off to new, innovative ideas we can be.   <br />Jacobs does not only point out flaws of commonly held \\"truths\\" about city planning, but also successfully argues that many of the tenets of city planning have deep roots in classism/racism and xenophobia.  The entire fourth section of the book details the author's suggestions for improving the structure of cities.  The only complaint I have is that the subject matter can be a bit dry (such as when discussing housing subsidies), but this is a matter of course and is minimized by the overall importance and originality of the book.	2005-02-15
US	25830858	R2QRAJ12W54OV3	0156030241	811108211	Like the Red Panda	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Well-written, often hilarious	Andrea Seigel has done a pretty difficult thing in writing Like the Red Panda; while it's about an overachieving teenage girl who plans to commit suicide, all the mawkish cliches are avoided.  Sentimentality is sidestepped in favor of some truly emotional moments, though the protagonist, Stella Parrish, tries purposely not to linger there too long.   <br />As a character, she's very self-conscious (beyond the point of neuroses), and has a definite idea of the way things should be versus the way things are versus the way things used to be--and when things in her life don't match up with these ideas, she makes wry, often withering observations and moves on.  It's not that Stella is some kind of overly precocious, wise-ass, all-knowing teenage genius who's too cool to have genuine feelings (although sometimes it seems as though she'd prefer to be and even strives to be that way); in fact, Seigel really succeeds at portraying Stella's love for her off-and-on boyfriend, her desire to make one good friend, and her grief for her dead parents.   <br />The plot is interesting because you're never quite sure whether Stella is actually going to go through with killing herself or not; here, too, the author succeeds at depicting a certain kind of ambivalence about life itself.  There are a lot of side plots with her boyfriend, a couple of kids at school, her grandpa and her foster parents, all of which pretty much fall into place by the end of the novel.  The writing is sharp and witty, but still feels like it's been written by a teenager, and definitely had more than a few moments that made me laugh out loud.  Highly recommended!	2005-02-15
US	25830858	R18IRIH6BSKMW8	0743259998	501793238	The Mommy Myth: The Idealization of Motherhood and How It Has Undermined All Women	Books	5	15	18	N	N	Witty, incisive and liberating	The Mommy Myth successfully exposes the worship of the \\"perfect mother\\" that has resonated throughout society for decades, and which is now reaching a fever pitch--today's \\"good\\" mother is supposed to be able to raise perfectly behaved, genius children, look fabulous and thin, be a great wife, make her own pinecone wreath every Christmas and constantly repeat such things as \\"Being a mother is fabulous every minute of every day and I never get flustered, overwhelmed or feel like screaming at my kids\\".  As most women know, loving your children does not preclude occasionally feeling like you want to go on vacation... alone.  The authors frequently use humor and personal anecdotes to diffuse the loaded topic of ambivalence about being a mother, which, while it exists in the majority of women from time to time, is virtually ignored by society because it's an \\"undesirable\\" feeling for \\"good mothers\\" to have.  Additionally, many great examples are drawn upon from our current pop culture, such as the glowing profiles of celebrity moms in magazines (who manage to stay a size 2 and say motherhood fulfills their every need while they simultaneously pay two nannies to stay home with the babies while they fly to Paris and make a movie), who are held up as such impossible ideals that the rest of us can only become more frustrated and feel more inadequate.   <br />Some reviews have remarked that the authors have an obvious bias towards stay-at-home moms; I feel that the underlying point of the book is that women should be able to do whatever they want with their lives without judgment from society or the archetype of a \\"good mother\\" hanging over their heads.  That is, if you're the kind of stay-at-home mother who really does look gorgeous while vacuuming and who never raises her voice just because motherhood is easy and unconflicted, then you're very lucky and talented.  However, I think if the authors are a bit biased, this occurs mainly because they are fighting so hard againstthe concept of the perfect mother--and usually the idea of the perfect mother is a stay-at-home mom.  Overall, I think this \\"bias\\" should not undermine the value of this smart and funny book--highly recommended!	2005-02-14
US	25830858	R2YX6V26Y8E4WP	0743446607	686980094	Detour: My Bipolar Road Trip in 4-D	Books	3	17	21	N	N	Interesting and inspiring, but it felt a bit abrupt	Lizzie Simon's life seemed perfect, with the exception of a genetic predisposition to being bipolar.  She begins the book by detailing the day that she had a real \\"break\\" and the full impact of her illness seemed to kick in.  Up until that point, nobody knew that she had bipolar disorder, though it ran in the family.  It is pretty amazing how much she's accomplished in spite of her illness, and, at the age of 23, she was inspired to travel cross-country to interview other people living with bipolar disorder who were leading successful lives.   <br />The inspiration came from an advertisement for integrated people with mental illnesses into the workplace, which definitely had a profound effect on Lizzie, because it dispelled the myth that there has to be a huge social stigma attached to having mental illness.  However, when she read a \\"critique\\" in a local newspaper which discounted the ad and everyone living with any kind of mental illness (with a good dose of insensitivity and mean-spiritedness), it served as a catalyst for the road trip documented in the book.  It's definitely inspiring to read how the author actually attempted to correct the negative effect of something that offended and upset her, which is something most of us do not have the courage to do.   <br />Additionally, reading the personal stories of the young people who happen to be bipolar is moving, especially reading about how utterly depressed and sometimes even suicidal some of these kids were.  That really demonstrates how powerful the genetic component of this illness is and it's truly sad how long it took many of them to be properly diagnosed.   <br />I definitely think this was a admirable project and the author is obviously a great role model not just to others suffering from bipolar disorder, but also for anyone who feels strongly about a \\"cause\\" but has never been moved to action.   <br />I guess the only problem I had with the book was that the writing style felt a bit abrupt at times andwas really kind of short in length... It seemed like there was more to say.	2005-02-04
US	25830858	RRJN1U7YMEAA4	031242227X	994951933	Running with Scissors: A Memoir	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Augusten Burroughs is amazing....	...both as a writer and human being.  While reading this book in a 3 hour session (I couldn't put it down), I think my face was permanently twisted into pure shock/horror or hysterical laughter.  It's not often that that happens all in the same book.   <br />Saying that Augusten Burroughs lived an unconventional life is putting it mildly.  Though the occurrences in his childhood (from having a narcissistic, sometimes psychotic mother to being shipped off to live in a madhouse--literally and figuratively--with his shrink and his many children to having a very strange, potentially damaging relationship with a 33 year old man at the age of 13) *should* have resulted in a mentally disturbed basket case, they have instead been translated into a well-written memoir that will spark admiration when you read it.  It's truly amazing, given the tribulations of the author's life, that his coping mechanisms were a sharp sense of humor and writing, rather than falling into the same spirals of insanity surrounding him.   <br />Burroughs has been compared to David Sedaris, as both write anecdotes about their childhoods and families, both are gay and both have a witty writing style.  However, if you're easily offended, you may want to stick to Sedaris.  I guarantee that you've never read about half the stuff in this book actually happening in real life, let alone at all.  It's impossible to read this book and not feel better about your own life and/or not have great respect for the author. <br />I plan to read all the author's books now, because he's a great writer who has turned what could easily have been personal tragedy into art.	2005-02-04
US	25830858	R2YAUE35II0C9Z	0375701427	79852712	American Pastoral: American Trilogy (1) (Vintage International)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Beautifully written	Roth's multi-layered prose can stretch a single sentence on and on for nearly a page, creating an urgency in the description of a thing or activity, even if it appears to be insignificant.  This writing style is what makes the book so compelling.  While some issues are left unresolved (such as, what happens to the daughter in the end?), it doesn't result in an unsatisfying experience, just in more curiosity about the characters.   <br />The way the author sets the novel up is in an unchronological way, so he gives you a bit of information at a time, which is part of what makes you keep reading--you're never sure when another piece of the puzzle will be revealed.  He sets the reader up so that, just when you think you know everything that's going on in a character's head, another memory or conversation pops up that changes things and complicates the story (in a good way).   <br />It's a very long novel, and it took me awhile to really get into it, but once I did, it was hard to put it down.  Much of the writing is exposition, not conversation or \\"action\\" per se, so if this is not your kind of writing, you may find it frustrating.   <br />Roth captures perfectly the schizophrenic identity of American culture in the '60s, when it was split between anarchic social revolution and the scrubbed-clean postwar era image of the decades before.  While, in the end, it feels like he has painted a rather bleak portrait of family life and our society and what it means to be an American or Jewish or from a \\"good family\\", it is a very interesting book that presents vastly different perspectives on life and is supporting by great writing.	2005-02-03
US	25830858	R1DM2482YF1NL8	1568582951	797099425	Vaginas: An Owner's Manual	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Very informative and extremely funny	This book would make a great gift for girls going through puberty.  The writers are personal, witty and honest about women's health issues as well as the gender/social aspects that are nearly always tangled up with reproductive health.  All the anatomical basics are covered in detail, as well as various conditions and symptoms. It even covers menopause, so it's really a book for anyone with a vagina!   <br />The authors are mother and daughter, the mother being a gynecologist and the daughter a writer--I wish my own mom had been so knowledgeable and forthright about the topics discussed in the book.  Again, this book is great for those who are uncomfortable talking about reproductive health with their parents or children.   <br />Also sprinkled liberally throughout the book are odd historical facts about gynecological treatments or conditions, both in American and other cultures.  These are sometimes amusing, sometimes upsetting and often bewildering.  It provides a good historical context for a realm of anatomy and physiology that is still (compared to many other health problems or issues) mysterious and not fully understood.   <br />Overall, it's a very quick and informative read that I highly recommend for every woman and girl.	2005-02-01
US	25830858	R3KUFI02S1A2CI	0393060020	708846688	War And The American Presidency	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Good for history novices	Admittedly, my education in the area of American history is somewhat lacking--so my review is going to be a bit less critical than the others, simply for lack of much to compare it to.  However, I can say that Schlesinger's writing style is witty, academic yet unprententious, with an almost lyrical flow to it--it's not dry reading though the subject matter is.   <br />If you don't know much about American history beyond the major events or what has occurred over the past 60 years, you will learn things about American politics that you won't hear discussed on any talk show, news program or in the editorial section of the newspaper.  For example, Schlesinger points out that the \\"unilateralism\\" favored by the Bush administration is nothing new to American history--in fact, the more internationally involved stance maintained during the Cold War was an anomaly.  This is a crucial point that is almost never brought up in debates about current events; most people argue that the administration's standpoint is an egregious break with \\"American\\" foreign policy.   <br />As for the author's personal political viewpoint, I think Schlesinger is quite honest about where he stands (liberal), but I don't think this is a problem.  He is frank with the reader about his own beliefs; I think it's better he do this than pretend to have none at all, which is virtually impossible for any historian to do (though, obviously, there are more or less blatant ways of doing so).  All historical accounts or analyses are filtered through an author's individual lens.  I don't think the book suffers at all because of this.   <br />There were a few times that the focus of the book seemed to be a bit all over the place, but generally I feel I learned a lot by reading it.  I would definitely recommend this to anyone who doesn't read a lot of history normally but who is curious nonetheless.  Schlesinger is a great writer and is easy to get into--additionally, the text is quite short for a history book, so this also makes it ideal for a beginner.	2005-01-31
US	25830858	RBXBDE6RABAFF	1573229326	319964836	How to Be Good	Books	2	10	12	N	N	Not very compelling reading	I have read Hornby's other novels and enjoyed them thoroughly; unfortunately, this one wasn't nearly as funny or interesting.  I think the author deserves a lot of credit for writing a believable female protagonist, Katie, who is a complicated character and not based on a stereotype of a \\"woman\\".  Hornby manages to create a few really honest moments, such as when Katie admits that she is irritated with her kids and doesn't think they're extremely cute--maybe at times that she doesn't even like them at all and feels like smacking them, though she never does.  It's rare that these sentiments get expressed at all in fiction or film or in real life, let alone from a male author.  And Hornby raises a lot of interesting questions about who is \\"Good\\" and who is a hypocrite--these are topics for a lengthy discussion, to be sure, but they felt a bit muddled in print.   <br />I found several of the characters annoying (not unlikable, which isn't even a big deal unless the character is boring--annoying is much worse), which made it difficult to read through the entire novel, and often the arguments made about Goodness and selfishness seemed to err on the side of sentimentality.  The tone of the book felt too uneven at times--sometimes it was depressingly bleak, other times too preachy.  I realize this may have been brought about by the very nature of trying to answer the many questions raised--the characters have several epiphanies and changes from one side to the other, as well as the issues being extremely complex and not cut and dried.....  <br />Essentially, if you are a reader who wants to get into reading Nick Hornby, I wouldn't recommend this.  Read High Fidelity or About a Boy instead.  And even if you want to read everything Hornby's written, I'm still not sure you'd want to read it.  While it definitely has good moments, I personally did not enjoy it much.	2005-01-27
US	25830858	R1Y6PUFQ7Z5QG0	1592400744	40103180	Beautiful Stranger	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Shockingly honest and sad	This book chronicles an obsession with physical perfection--a true story about Donahue's own life.  Her need to keep \\"improving\\" upon her physical self masked her own mental illness (OCD) and emotional issues left from a difficult childhood and often bizarre, unhealthy familial relationships.  Donahue writes with brutal honesty about her own feelings and desires; while it is difficult to identify with her, it is easy to understand her, mainly due to the matter-of-fact way she explains and describes things.  She resists the urge to tie up all loose ends neatly at the end of book, to wipe the slate totally clean and declare everything \\"fine\\".  While it is clear that she has more control over her drive towards perfection and that she has done a lot of personal work in therapy and immensely improved her life, she admits to the all-too-frequent internal struggle over the old impulses to \\"fix\\" things.   <br />Overall, the book is very interesting--it's often hard to believe that all these things happened to one person in 27 years, and harder still to believe that she managed to get her life back on track in an even shorter period of time.  The confessional writing style creates intimacy and discomfort--both of which are necessary to understanding the author and her illness.  While the book could have been even more interesting with before and after photos, it remains a compelling memoir.	2005-01-24
US	25830858	R3KH8WUP90BEZH	140135212X	666411206	Attack Poodles and Other Media Mutants: The Looting of the News In a Time of Terror	Books	4	18	20	N	N	Clever and funny, though not much new info	I thoroughly enjoy James Wolcott's blog and find him smart yet hilarious whenever I see him on some political TV show, so I was looking forward to reading this book.  If you've read a lot of the recent anti-Bush/right-wing-takeover-of-the-media type of books that have come out in the the past few years, there may not be a lot of groundbreaking new information.  The real reason to read this book is Wolcott's writing style--I don't think many people can write about political punditry with a sarcastic, poetic wit the way the author does.  He has a real gift for inventing phrases and descriptions for things and people that I would never have thought of, yet are totally recognizable.  One of my favorite examples of this is Wolcott's uncannily apt description of Chris Matthews, host of MSNBC's \\"Hardball\\":  \\"Plump and sassy inside his own hotdog skin (a self-described 'happy troll'), Matthews splashes and spills his noisy presence around the studio like a man supremely assured that he's at the top of his game, the life of the party, the zeitgeist zapping from his pores.\\"   <br />As a few other reviewers have mentioned, the chapter on Peggy Noonan was one of the best, and probably the chapter that provided the most completely new material.  As I said before, if you read a lot of these political/media critiques, there may not be much new here, and may find the book overlong.  But if you enjoy Wolcott's style, you'll be able to finish this book quickly.	2005-01-21
US	25830858	RT24GVFC8QWAN	0374525641	65032227	The Spirit Catches You and You Fall down: A Hmong Child, Her American Doctors, and the Collision of Two Cultures	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Fascinating and frustrating	Anne Fadiman manages to tell both sides of an extremely complicated story in this book, that of the struggle between a traditional Hmong family with a sick child and the scientific outlook of American medical doctors.  The author deftly points out shortcomings of both sides (as well as the validity of both), particularly focusing on the communication problem between the two.  She reserves ultimate judgment for the \\"real\\" culprit:  unwillingness to understand the \\"other\\", something all too common in society.   <br /> <br />Additionally, it is a fascinating account of Hmong culture, something I knew nothing about before reading this book.  The accounts of Hmong immigrants and their culture reveal a unique and miraculously intact \\"lump\\" in the much-discussed \\"melting pot\\" of America.   <br /> <br />Finally, reading this book made me painfully aware, as a white American, of my own personal biases and \\"truths\\" that I sometimes take for granted as universal.  As globalization becomes the norm, this book is invaluable.	2005-01-18
US	25830858	R19G11GEYSZ9AQ	1573227331	602052020	About a Boy	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Light and funny	This novel is a bit more \\"heartwarming\\" than its predecessor, High Fidelity, but is nonetheless a good, quick, entertaining read.  I actually saw the film version before I read the novel, and, though the endings are different, both are definitely worth checking out.  As usual, Nick Hornby's prose is straightforward, yet funny, full of sharp observations.  The characters of Will and Marcus are pretty well fleshed-out and distinct; it's easy to believe the characters would realistically develop the way that they do and think they way they think, etc.  The only criticism I have is that the sentimentality is a bit heavy-handed at times, but it definitely didn't interfere with my enjoyment of the book as a whole.	2005-01-17
US	25830858	R1OYQ0PTIRJ179	0738206644	473920452	Branded: The Buying And Selling Of Teenagers	Books	3	14	16	N	N	Good concept, but not totally engaging	Alissa Quart tackles an admirable and potentially fascinating subject in Branded, yet I was left feeling a bit disappointed after finishing the book.  I personally found her writing style a bit stilted, and it seems like there is a lot of information and many observations, yet not so much in-depth analysis.  The book itself is not extremely long, so there is definitely room for more expansion.  There are countless examples of teen branding in movies, fashion, magazines, advertisements, etc., and the author touches on all of these and more, but somehow the book felt more like a bombardment of information than a nuanced analysis.  I had pretty high expectations when I read this book (especially from the many positive editorial reviews available), but it was ultimately not as satisfying an experience as I would have hoped.	2005-01-17
US	25830858	RB6M6FBLCFKJO	0060936460	821071553	The Bitch in the House: 26 Women Tell the Truth About Sex, Solitude, Work, Motherhood, and Marriage	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Funny, Articulate, Relatable	I thoroughly enjoyed this book in its entirety--I read it cover to cover in about 3 hours.  As the title states, the essays cover a variety of topics relevant to women, such as marriage, relationships, children, work, self-discovery, as well as exploring the ambivalence and/or anger felt in relation to life experiences and social expectations.  The authors are all extremely gifted and the book as a whole has funny, sad, poignant and completely relatable moments--moments in which a specific, often previously unspoken or never-before-admitted, feeling is so accurately articulated that it's a bit unsettling to read it in print.  A \\"conclusion\\" is never drawn, an \\"agenda\\" is not present.... It is simply a celebration of individual women's personal truths and an acceptance of the many different paths women choose for themselves. I truly believe that anyone who reads this will be able to identify with at least one of these viewpoints, though certainly not all, which is really an integral part of its value.  Highly recommended!	2005-01-17
US	25830858	R1WQ0NNW4T3891	1580050433	691666492	DEL-Body Outlaws: Young Women Write About Body Image and Identity (Live Girls)	Books	4	23	24	N	N	Empowering.... to a certain extent	I read a lot of \\"woman-centric\\" books, and, while this is certainly a worthy project as well as a generally interesting book, it doesn't quite measure up to essay collections such as The Bitch in the House or Old Wives' Tales.  (I would like to be able to give it three and a half stars, but rounded it up to four.)  The authors of these essays are extremely diverse racially, ethnically and in their backgrounds and lifestyles.  For this reason alone, it is an important read, because it provides valuable cultural insight into the \\"beauty myths\\" surrounding demographics other than middle-class white women.   <br /> <br />One of the essays I enjoyed most was \\"The Butt:  Its Politics, Its Profanity, Its Power\\" by Erin J. Aubry, a funny and articulate examination of the important and often culturally-loaded role of the butt in African-American (and \\"white\\" American) culture.  There are, however, a wealth of other essays, that, as another reviewer pointed out, seem to repeat themselves--women hating their bodies from childhood and the ensuing struggles.  The variation of this theme becomes less powerful after reading it over and over again.  This concept is one that is almost \\"played out\\", to a certain extent, in that it has already been discussed and dealt with, even in mainstream media.  While undoubtedly a real problem with negative consequences, if you are familiar with these themes, it doesn't make for groundbreaking reading.  <br /> <br />Additionally, while there are a few essays (such as the very interesting \\"Strip\\" by Diana Courvant) that allow for necessary complexity and, to a certain extent, uncertainty regarding the issue of body image, there are a few that I found a bit too judgmental in the opposite direction.  That is, there isn't always an acceptance of *choice*--an admission that it's okay for women to want to wear make-up or high heels if they want to, just because they like the way it looks, not because it's dictated to them by society.  In other words,whether a woman wears sweatpants or haute couture, her attitude towards herself could be reverent or ashamed, or an awkward space in between; a woman has a right to define her identity as she sees fit for herself, not as EITHER a painted, smooth, hairless Barbie OR a barefaced, unadorned, utilitarian womyn.	2005-01-17
