US	26034295	R2OO7QT7BZ4BA8	068816112X	761772754	Replay	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Over and Over and Over...	Jeff Winston, sitting at his desk at work, listening to his wife on the phone, suddenly has an extreme pain in his chest...and dies...and awakes again in his 18 year old body, but still has his memories intact from the last 25 years of his life:  ages 18-43.  He suddenly has his whole life to live again...and does, but this time he does it better.  Until he dies again at age 43.  And again.  And again.  And again. <br /> <br />Such is the premise of Ken Grimwood's insightful novel, Replay.  Knowing future events enables Jeff Winston to become a very rich man.  Knowing future events enables Jeff Winston to become a very sought-after man.  And knowing how future events will wind up makes Jeff Winston a very lonely man. <br /> <br />Replay is one of those books, that if I were and English teacher, I would want my kids to read.  It presents a wonderful depiction of several human conditions, not least among them avarice, lust, ennui, regret and loneliness.  But Replay also depicts the brighter side of humanity as well; love and hope rear their faces in several different forms throughout this book.  Unfortunately, the book probably would not pass muster through most school administrations, there is a lot of graphic language as well as about 20-30 pages that imply, if not outright depict, strong sexual content.  This aside, I highly recommend this book to mature readers of all ages, it will certainly open one's eyes to the brevity of life, and how we must make the most of what we have got, while we have got it.	2005-09-15
US	26034295	R20K0ACWI8LAY	0441012914	893478005	Absolution Gap (Revelation Space)	Books	4	0	2	N	N	Wonderful Ideas...Slightly Above Average Execution	In Absolution Gap, the final installment in Reynolds' quartet of books dealing with the Inhibitors, those who sought refuge after escaping the Resurgam system aboard the Nostalgia for Infinity have now sought refuge aboard the water world Ararat.  Twenty-three years pass and the ad hoc colony thrives, many light years distant from the ravages of the Inhibitors, who have, we find out later, begun a full out assault on humanity and her colonies.  But now a small craft emerges from deep space carrying an occupant that once again forces those living on Ararat to face the enemy they thought they had escaped decades before.  Meanwhile... On the distant world Hela -- a moon which circles the gas giant Haldora -- a young woman undertakes a journey which will change her life forever...and a religious fanatic hatches a scheme which will change the lives of all those dwell upon the icy face of Hela. <br /> <br />Absolution Gap was an enjoyable, if not wholly satisfying, conclusion to a brilliant space opera set over four installments (Revelation Space, Chasm City, Redemption Ark, and the conclusion, Absolution Gap).  Reynolds does a quite satisfactory job of describing the religious fervor that most people who live on Hela subscribe to.  As for the colonists on Ararat...like the previous volume in this series, the exploits of Clavain, Scorpio, and the others who came to Ararat aboard the Nostalgia for Infinity, are at times, excrutiating and heartbreaking, while at other times the exploits induce a sense of...wistfulness, and yes, nostalgia. <br /> <br />Overall, Absolution Gap was a reasonably good finish to Reynolds' story, but the ending is a bit less than satisfying, and the characters don't really seem to \\"end up\\" anywhere.  I hope this does not detract potential readers from this book; it should not...just be warned, that the \\"process\\" of this book is a lot more fulfilling than than the \\"result\\".	2005-09-08
US	26034295	R1WNF0QNQAG4UR	0439784549	162568542	Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince (Book 6)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Quite Good	Upon Harry's entry into his sixth year at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry he is met by numerous changes from the previous year.  Amongst other things, he is now the captain of the Quidditch team...and of course, he has to deal with the new Defense Against the Dark Arts instructor.  Harry also gains some much needed insight into how Voldemort -- the wizard who killed his parents -- became the threat to the wizarding community (and most especially Harry) that he is. <br /> <br />I thoroughly enjoyed this book.  Harry's interaction with his classmates, his instructors, and most especially with Dumbledore, changes drastically in this book compared with the previous ones.  Harry is no longer a child.  Nor are his friends.  Both Harry and his friends begin to act like the adult Wizards and Witches they are becoming...and the adults are starting to seem them as such as well.  This combination of more information into the inner-workings of evil ala Lord Voldemort and Harry's (and his compatriots') burgeoning adult status, make for a very interesting and page-turning sixth installment in Rowling's story.  This book is highly recommended to all those who have enjoyed Harry's story in the past and who look forward to the culmination of Rowling's tale.	2005-08-19
US	26034295	R3SDOHXHGIIM3Z	0765301075	95465964	The Forge of God	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Mediocre Invasion...Could Have Been Much Better	In the deserts of California and Australia unusual geological formations are found that, in the recent past, weren't there.  The formations are disguised alien ships...and their emissaries are telling different stories.  The emissary from one ship foretells the doom of Earth; those from the other ship bring wishes of peace and harmony between alien cultures. <br /> <br />This is the foundation for Bear's story of alien invasion. The ideas he brings up are creative...but they just don't go far enough.  Everytime I thought we were going to learn something really interesting about the aliens, Bear halts the thread, teetering on the edge of annoying.  Add into the mix a cowardly and superstitious US President and scientists that never really seem to do much about the aliens except watch them, and you get a first-contact-with-aliens/invason story that could have been a lot more.  Overall, not Bear's best work...nonetheless, I look forward to seeing if the sequel is any better.	2005-08-19
US	26034295	R1I3BYH2YV5WF3	0441012027	762788052	Polaris (Alex Benedict)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Not Quite Up To:  A Talent For War	Alex Benedict is back, along with Chase Kolpath...about a dozen years after they figured out the truth about Christopher Sims.  This time the story is told from the point of view of Chase.  After a bomb destroys artifacts from the Polaris -- a ship whose crew vanished 60 years ago -- Benedict and Kolpath begin to suspect something odd is going on when the only remaining artifacts to survive the bombing -- now sold for a profit -- are being visiting by people with the same physical descriptions, but different names.  Added to this is the fact that it seems someone wants Benedict and Kolpath to stop investigating the Polaris...and is willing to kill to stop their investigation, and one has a fairly enjoyable adventure across several futuristic vistas. <br /> <br />Polaris was a reasonably good sequel to McDevitt's A Talent for War.  The biggest problem was that it seems a bit too much time had passed (about 15 years) and Mr. McDevitt seems to have forgotten what he wrote in Talent...and then proceeded to write an extremely similar novel in Polaris.  That being said, the story is still enjoyable enough to keep the pages turning and one wondering about the mystery of the Polaris until the end.  Polaris is recommended to anyone who enjoys McDevitt's work or just to anyone interested in an easy page-turner.	2005-06-27
US	26034295	R3ICIPJ2P9EN8T	0441012175	812889589	A Talent For War	Books	5	82	86	N	N	Interesting Story...Interesting Backdrop	A Talent for War presents an enjoyable trek through a future history...a history with it's own figure-heads and heroes, and shows us how those people actually were.  McDevitt gives us the science fiction equivalent of taking us back to the American Revolution and putting us into the heads of George Washington and Thomas Jefferson.  McDevitt exquisitely executes this future history through the backdrop of the protagonist, Alex Benedict, and his search for the truth about what happened to the longterm exploratory ship Tenandrome.  What did the crew find that they thought they had to erase all public records of the journey, and essentially swear themselves to silence about that journey. <br /> <br />McDevitt's only flaw in this book is that he seems to get sidetracked a bit with minutae...who said what at this meeting or that, who did what, where...etc.  Some of this was clearly needed...but he goes overboard just a bit.  This detracts from the story only a little though.  Mostly, I just desperately wanted to find out the answers to the mysteries McDevitt poses.  A Talent for War is a really good read, McDevitt's character analyses are dead-on and consequently he does a wonderful job of making you feel what the characters feel.  As long as you enjoy good storytelling this book is highly recommended to anyone, period.	2005-05-31
US	26034295	R2J6VHR0YUDSIZ	0064407691	488122738	The Miserable Mill (A Series of Unfortunate Events, Book 4)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Baudelaires Chop Wood	The story of the Baudelaire children continues.  This time, they are sent to live in a lumber mill.  There they encounter the vile foreman Flacutono who insists on banging pots together to get everyone's attention.  They also meet a shady ophthamologist...and, of course, Count Olaf in disguise.  The children's ostensible guardian in this installment is the rather gruff, heartless \\"Sir\\", the owner of the mill, whose face you never actually get to see because it is always in a cloud of cigar smoke. <br /> <br />This volume, like the last, has some pretty scary moments and probably should not be read alone by young children.  This volume seems to be about par for the course, continuing in the same style where the others have left off, the Baudelaires continue to use their wits and brains to outwit those who wish to make life miserable for them.  This story is recommended for 10 and up...or younger, with an adult.	2005-05-22
US	26034295	R1U277Q5Y66E78	0765302624	499512366	Blind Lake	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Watching Aliens	A decade after highly sophisticated quantum computers develop the ability to view alien worlds up close and personal, Blind Lake National Laboratory has been watching the alien culture on a planet -- UMa47/E -- more than 50 light years away.  But suddenly, and without warning, Blind Lake goes into a state of total lockdown.  There is no communication in or out (apart from weekly supply trucks) and the thousand plus people who live and work at Blind Lake find themselves prisoners of the community that had once felt like home.  Speculation abounds and rumors spread among the population of Blind Lake as to why the facility was suddenly shut down.  Most feel it has something to do with the Eye...the quantum computer that is enabling the scientists to view the alien culture, and one Subject in particular, on UMa47/E.  Despite the rumors, one thing is for certain, something is happening at Blind Lake; the Lake was shut down for a reason...and that reason may change our preconceptions about life in the Universe, and how we fit into it. <br /> <br />Blind Lake is the third book I've read by Mr. Wilson.  On the whole, it is the best of the three.  The chracter development is rich and the plot moves fairly quickly.  As with the other books I've read by this author, the ideas and concepts he presents are quite broad.  Mr. Wilson seems to enjoy cramming a lot of different philosophies into his books.  But what made this book truly enjoyable was that the characters he develops in this story aren't smothered by the ideas he sets forth...something that tended to happen in the previous works I've read by him (Mysterium, The Chronoliths...see my reviews for further details).  Ray Scutter, the de facto administrator of Blind Lake, is really a dirt bag, and there were points in the story where I just wanted to strangle him.  Marguerite Hauser (Ray's ex-wife), is drawn beautifully.  You really feel for the way she has to deal with Ray and how she handles her time time between studyingthe Subject and spending time with her daugther Tess.  Tess herself is a little nuts...or atleast feels that way throughout most of the novel.  An eleven year old girl dealing with such psychological issues...Mr. Wilson does a superb job of making Tess, not only a child being a child, but also a child dealing with her, at times debilitating, psychological issues.  And to round out the main set of characters, Chris, torn up inside over what he could do, what he did do, and what he should have done in his past and how he is dealing with it in his present.  Blind Lake is a great character study of what happens to people when they are dealing with the unknown and especially dealing with the unknown under a great deal of stress.  This story is highly recommended for anyone who looks for quality, character driven, storytelling in books.	2005-05-16
US	26034295	R1M2GNWYOGR3NN	0064407683	320801559	The Wide Window (A Series of Unfortunate Events)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	The Story Leeches...err...Latches Onto You	The Baudelaire children once again find themselves in the care of an unfamiliar, distant relative with rather unusual quirks.  This time the children are sent to live with Josephine Anwhistle -- Aunt Josephine -- who lives on a house on a high hill above Lake Lachrymose.  Aunt Josephine is afraid of everything!  Her sofa because it could crush you.  Her stove because it could burn you.  Her doorknobs because they could explode when you touch them.  Clearly Aunt Josephine as some psychological issues...mostly resulting from the death of her beloved Ike...who was torn apart by the Lachrymose Leeches...horrible creatures that live in the lake below her house and will devour you if you are not careful.  Meanwhile, Count Olaf makes another appearance, incognito, as Captain Sham.  He, of course, cons Aunt Josephine into doing what it is he wants her to do...but the Baudelaire kids are no fools and thwart Olaf once again with their natural talents:  inventiveness, bookishness, and of course, really sharp teeth. <br /> <br />The Wide Window was a somewhat darker continuation of the Baudelaire story.  There was, of course, the same pattern of woe and triumph in this book as in the previous two books.  But this book takes on a decidely more morose tone.  If I were an 8 year old child reading this book there could certainly be some scenes that might kind of scare me.  So for the 7 to 11 age bracket of readers this might be a story you want to read with an older brother or sister, or even your mom or dad around.  That being said, this is certainly the best of Baudelaire stories yet.  I look forward to reading more of them.	2005-05-16
US	26034295	RUU32TE8XXRML	0765306395	381579312	A Shortcut in Time	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Mundane Time Travel Yarn	Josh Winkler lives a good life.  He has a 15 year old daughter Penny.  His wife is a doctor which gives him the time to dabble with his art.  His younger brother was injured when he was young and now is brain damaged.  He wanders the streets of Euclid Heights, IL, in most ways, a bum.  Oneday a teenage girl appears, barefoot, seemingly out of nowhere, wondering \\"what happened to Dash?\\"  While treading the \\"perp walks\\" (perpendicular paths cut between steets) of Euclid Heights, during a burgeoning storm, Josh Winkler slips back in time 15 minutes.  The two occurences are no coincidence.  Josh tries to convince his family that he went back 15 minutes.  His daughter tells her friends that her father went back 15 minutes.  Soon, his wife's practice is suffering and Josh is a town joke.  All the neighborhood kids are out on the perp walks trying to make themselves go back in time.  The young girl that Josh saw that day soon shows up at his wife's practice as a ward of the state and claims to be from the year 1908.  Over the next couple of weeks, the time traveling girl -- Constance Morceau -- befriends Josh's family as well as seeks to learn about her own future through old microfilm reels at the local library...a practice which Josh discourages.  She is desperately trying to get back to 1908, not only because she misses her family, but also because the young man with whom she was with -- Dash -- is lynched in connection with her disappearance. <br /> <br />This is the first work of Mr. Dickinson's I have read and I have to admit, that while it wasn't the best piece of time travel fiction I have I ever read, it certainly was an enjoyable read...especially after the rather long slow start.  The reviews at the beginning of the book compared this it to some of Jack Finney's work.  I would definitely have to agree.  Like Finney's stories, Dickinson doesn't try to make time travel the focus of this book, instead it is about the lives of the characters (artist, doctor, etc.) and how this incredible event -- time travelling -- effects them...mostly in undesired ways.  Overall, I would definitely read more of Mr. Dickinson's works...and I have already recommended this one to several people.	2005-05-04
US	26034295	R3KSOQ6J4OUEVP	0064407675	704463408	The Reptile Room (A Series of Unfortunate Events #2)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Snaky...Err...I Mean Sneaky Olaf	The Baudelaire childrens' adventures continue in this, the second installment, of Lemony Snicket's series.  After having thwarted Count Olaf in the first book, Violet, Klaus, and Sunny are sent to live with their distant relative Dr. Montgomery Montgomery.  Montgomery is a herpetologist and absolutely loves snakes...he collects and studies every type he can find.  The Baudelaire children settle into living with the jovial Montgomery rather well.  After the horrible Count Olaf, anything is better.  But Montgomery treats them well, and they enjoy their time with him...until Count Olaf manages to snake his way back into the children's lives (in disguise), pretending to be the replacement for Montgomery's assistant, who quit suddenly.  The children try to warn Montgomery of the danger, but he doesn't believe them...and then more bad things happen to the Baudelairs..... <br /> <br />The second installment to Snicket's series is about on par with the first...enjoyable and amusing, but nonetheless a book written to be read by children.  The adults in the story are frustratingly blind to the menace Olaf poses...apparently after one reaches a certain age the ability to detect a con-man disappears.  As long as one remembers that this is a story written for children, the story is certainly not a bad one.  The plot moves along pretty well, and you love to hate Olaf.  Overall, it's a good continuation of the Baudelair story and I look forward to reading subsequent volumes. <br /> <br />	2005-05-04
US	26034295	R370I8Y4RYB7SG	0312848692	169910975	Borrowed Tides	Books	2	2	3	N	N	So Glad I Only Borrowed This One	All his life Aaron had wanted to reach the stars.  After a lifetime of work, and with a little help from his childhood friend, Jack (and his ancient Native American belief that a \\"river\\" flows both ways between stars, and that they can use the return flow to return to Earth), he finally succeeds.  Launching from a space station in orbit around Mars, Aaron and his crew extend their reaches to Earth's nearest star (excluding our Sun), Alpha Centauri.  But Aaron and his crew are using an unproven drive, which allows them to attain 48% the speed of light.  At this speed it takes the ship, the Light Through, eight years to make it to Alpha Centauri...but they don't have enough fuel to get back.  Their plan is to slingshot around Alpha Centauri and thereby gain enough velocity for the return back to Earth. <br /> <br />Where to begin with the flaws in this story?  The characters are shallow.  In fact, there is really only one main character, perhaps two \\"sub-main\\" characters.  The rest of the people on board the Light Through provide virtually no depth to the story, and indeed, prove to only be there to serve as roadblocks to Aaron, the main character, or as moral sounding boards, of which Aaron can launch ideas, theories, and concepts at them to \\"see what they think\\".  But the moral interplay is shallow and predictable and barely provides enough \\"umph\\" to keep the plotline crawling. <br /> <br />The main concept behind the voyage is that the Light Through will be able to, essentially slingshot around Alpha Centauri and thereby get itself back on course for the return voyage to Earth.  Umm...this \\"slingshot\\" technique to attain a needed velocity has been used by NASA for more than 30 years.  Why the heck wouldn't it work on a voyage to Alpha Centauri?...it would just be a longer jaunt than anything they have yet attained.  Also, this group of eight or nine explorers spend eight years couped up on a ship just to spend a few weeks in the Alpha Centauri system, zooming around the sun for a return voyage back to Earth?  What's the point?  Who's going to want to spend that much time in space for just a glance at another star and its planetary system?  Of course, they do, breifly take a trip down to a planet, but it doesn't last long, and, quite frankly they don't do very much while they are there. <br /> <br />The list is quite long where Mr. Levinson failed in this book.  I'm hardly an expert, but the way he portrays quantum mechanical theory on large scales borders on absurd.  He simply does not back it up with anything, either hard science, or a believable fantasy milieu, either of which would have been acceptable and made the story a lot more enjoyable and engaging. <br /> <br />In over 50 reviews here at Amazon, this is the first review I am giving less than 3 stars.  I think that alone should say something about Mr. Levinson's story.  Borrowed Tides lacks depth, engaging characters, but most importantly a sense of uniqueness of thought, the story lacked a sense that it really had something new to say.  The only reason I am giving this 2 stars instead of the Lonely 1, is because this story is about explorers, and as an explorer-at-heart I can't give my comrades-in-arms the Lonely 1, it's not their fault their existence did not shine as it should have.	2005-04-25
US	26034295	R2BF1ZGI127L6R	0441010466	652303425	Omega	Books	5	5	6	N	N	This Is What Scifi Should Be	For 30 years now the Omega clouds have been on humanity's radar.  These gigantic space-born clouds of unknown origin glide benignly through the galaxy, until they encounter a civilization.  With little mercy the clouds then change course and annihilate the civilization.  Priscilla \\"Hutch\\" Hutchins has seen it before...or at least the remains of the civilizations that have been struck by these clouds.  She was on the mission that discovered the clouds 30 years ago.  Now, a cloud has changed course and it is Hutch's job (she is director of operations for the Academy) to put together a mission to save a previously unknown, living alien civilization from the cloud.    As usual, McDevitt does a remarkable job in eliciting a sense of wonder of the unknown; in this case, his description of the alien civilization...the Goompahs...is marvelous.  The Goompahs (a human-coined word for the aliens) are wonderful beings.  They are like and unlike us in numerous ways.  McDevitt does extremely well describing those ways.  He makes it clear, that some things are universal (like math and how they use it their daily lives, in their architecture for instance), while other things, like their political and sexual mores, are completely different.    How would contact with a more technologically primitive culture than our own be viewed from the aliens point of view?  How would it be viewed from our point of view?  McDevitt asks and sets forth his own answers to these questions and more in a fundamentally believable way.    The only disappointments in the book are minor.  I would have liked a bit more contact with the Goompahs.  The Goompah female Macao, with her part right, part wrong view of her physical world, was extremely interesting, and I don't think McDevitt took her storyline quite far enough.  The only other problem I had with the story was that we never really find out for sure what the Omega clouds really are...only a suggestion.  Also, there is no attempt to trace them back totheir source to see who is behind them.  While the clouds provide the underlying foundation for the story, they really take second place to the descriptions and interactions of the alien culture and how humanity views it...this was as it should be.    Omega is what science fiction should be about.  Discovery.  The discovery of what is unknown, what is actually \\"Out There\\", and the discovery of ourselves, pushing our limits, and figuring out what we are really capable of.  Omega is supposed to be the last of the Hutch novels...hopefully this will not be the case.  Omega is highly recommended to any with any curiousity at all.	2005-03-30
US	26034295	RWCYD7RBVQXVA	038079439X	431533232	Expendable (League of Peoples, Bk. 1)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Interesting Ideas	Several centuries from now humanity is busily settling far-off planets and contacting alien beings.  Those on the frontline of this effort are the Explorers.  Explorers are those individuals are have been deemed to be of normal or above-normal intelligence but have a crucial flaw...they are, in one form or another, disfigured.  As such they are deemed Expending Crew Members (ECMs) and are the vanguard of humanity's effort to contact alien life...in other words, they get sent into all the really dangerous first-contact situations.  Festina Ramos is an Explorer (and an ECM), she has a large red birthmark covering an entire side of her face.  Along with her partner Yarrun, she has been assigned to lead a mission escorting the flamboyant Admiral Chee to the planet Melaquin.  Over the course of the last 50 years dozens of Explorers have disappeared on Melaquin and Ramos (along with Yarrun and Chee) has been sent to figure out why. <br /> <br />After a fairly slow, start, Expendable picks up its pace.  The natives on Melaquin are...a very interesting idea.  I'd hate to spoil anything here...so let me just say the natives have unique properties that make them a really creative idea on Mr. Gardner's part. <br /> <br />As for what happened to the previous Explorers that were sent to Melaquin, that was kind of formulaic...but I enjoyed the story nonetheless.  Also, I'd really like another book with much more detail given on the League of Peoples...the background alien federation/conglomeration that gave humanity much of its sophisticated technology with which they now use to explore the stars. <br /> <br />Overall, I'd definitely read more of Mr. Gardner's works...while Expendable hardly falls into the category of great literature, it is an enjoyable story with some really interesting ideas.	2005-03-24
US	26034295	R14YLPGVAHTLYD	0064407667	25170610	The Bad Beginning (A Series of Unfortunate Events #1)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Poor Baudelairs	The three Baudelair children, Violet, Klaus, and Sunny suddenly lose their parents in a tragic house fire.  Being children they must have a guardian to watch over them.  The children are sent to their very very very distant cousin, Count Olaf, to be raised.  Olaf is a pathetic excuse for an actor who is out to steal the Baudelair childrens' fortune and doesn't care one wit about the conditions he sticks the children in.  Because of it, they suffer...and nearly lose their fortune as well. <br /> <br />The Bad Beginning is a somewhat witty introduction to the Baudelair children and their adventures (this is the first of at least eleven books).  Count Olaf is a suitably despicable villian that the children must thwart and they do so, if not always easily, at least intelligently. <br /> <br />One really does tend to feel quite badly for the Baudelair children.  They obviously had a wonderful home pre-fire and very loving parents.  The underlying tension between the children and Olaf is a distinct lack of affection, going both ways.  Though the children do find affection here and there from other caring individuals and amongst themselves.  (They certainly never fight amongst each other as I did with my sibling at that age!) <br /> <br />The Bad Beginning a fun children's book, but it does not transcend the genre as Harry Potter does.  One can't help comparing the two.  Both are involving stories, but it is much easier to see how an adult may not enjoy this book as much as a Potter book.  Please don't let this discourage those adults out there reading this review...it's just fair warning.  Nonetheless, I anticipate continuing the Baudelairs story as soon as possible.	2005-03-24
US	26034295	R3VLQMXI8P8SBF	1894815645	434824188	Veniss Underground	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Weird Story...Weird Prose...Weirdly Enjoyable	A thousand years or more in the future the world is divided into walled cities.  The cities are self-contained, self-propetuating entities...full of wonder, and horror.  The cities themselves are divided into two levels...above and underground.  Above is the world of skyscrapers, canals, and relatively normal people going about their relatively normal business.  Underground is filled with the untame, the poor, the ugly, the forgotten.  Both realms have been manipulated by the enigmatic Quin...the thing is, those living underground know it, those living above ground don't suspect a thing.  In this future city, anyone (even children) can manipulate creatures on a genetic level...forming works of great beauty occassionally, but usually works of appalling horror.    Set in this city are Nicholas, Nicola and Shadrach.  The first two being brother and sister.  The lattermost being Nicola's former lover and former dweller of the underground.  Also set in Vandermeer's milieu are a host of genetically created creatures:  meerkats -- short, bipedal creatures of great strength and wit; ganeshas -- blue elphantine creatures slightly larger than the meerkats.  Both creatures are subservient to the humans populating the city.    Vandermeer's story is...odd.  To put it bluntly, I've never quite read anything like him before.  In the first third of the book, he lost points for crafting prose that was a bit difficult to get through.  But he more than made it up in the last two-thirds of the story, with somewhat more graceful writing, as well as just a really weird, yet oddly compelling story.  I would have liked to see more of the culture of the unique creatures that inhabit the city...as well as more of the city itself...it seemed such a vibrant place, alive with so much (even if it was alive with the horrific)...I would have liked more of this.  As for the underground, clearly it is based on certain mythologies, some of which are mentioned in the synopses on the back of the book.The unmitigated horror of this place is not for readers faint of heart.  But for those who can stomach the gore, the underground, and indeed the whole story, is filled with amazing landscapes that will not be easily forgotten.    This was the first Vandermeer book I've read.  I look forward to reading further volumes of his work and encourage anyone who enjoys interesting writing as well as an engaging story to pick up this book.	2005-03-08
US	26034295	R1Z4257NGLCJSY	0553574736	766527144	Heaven's Reach (The Second Uplift Trilogy #3)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Relatively Good Finish	The hunted, mostly dolphin-crewed ship Streaker has finally escaped Jijo, after once again hiding under a planet's ocean to escape the fanatical Galactic clans that are after her secrets.  Once again, her hiding place proves insufficient.  To escape the mighty Jophur, Streaker flees her hidden enclave under Jijo's waters and once again breaks for the stars...this time picking up some of Jijo's native sooners to take along for the ride.  Amongst the stars, Streaker discovers some unusual allies...and enemies, darting from strange alien structure to strange alien structure, to ultimately end up.....read the book and find out..... <br /> <br />Brin's final book in his Uplift saga answered a lot of questions I didn't know I had, and didn't, conclusively, answer several questions I was hoping to learn some answers to.  Brin poses a lot of difficult, and very philosophical questions in Heaven's Reach, mostly with regards to a starfaring species senescence.  What happens when a technologically advanced civilization becomes old and it's time for other, younger species to continue in its stead.  Brin postulates some interesting theories to this concept.  Two big questions Brin doesn't answer are who Herbie actually is (though why he's important is answered) and who humanity's lost patrons are.  Brin not answering these questions kind of left me a bit irked.  But Brin doesn't focus on these questions, and as you're reading the book, the questions he doesn't answer are in the back of your mind.  What Brin expertly brings the front of your mind is his continued character development.  The hardships the crew of the Streaker face...Gillian, T'sht, Kaa...and Streaker's newest members...Sara and Alvin and his friends.  Lark, Dwer and Rety also make it into the story, though their tale is a bit different from the others. <br /> <br />All in all, this book is generally a good conclusion to the story that Brin composed in five previous books.  There are certainly failings in the story, but they don't seems to outweigh the interesting characterizations of diverse alien species and even whole other life orders.  At the end of the book Brin alludes to a possible continuation of the story of Uplift...I look forward to that day.	2005-02-25
US	26034295	R3SKNF9QNJP1R5	0553577778	901620053	Infinity's Shore (The Uplift Trilogy, Book 2)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Continuing Jijo's Story...A Strong Follow-Up	The illegal, backwater colony of Jijo has been thrown into turmoil.  Six sooner races inhabit this Galactically-proclaimed fallow world...knowing their colony would oneday attract the attention of Galactic society.  Now they have...and it is nothing like they thought it would be.  Instead of official representatives from the Galactic Migration Institute coming to mete out long overdue justice, Jijo has attracted those who would stop at nothing to hunt down the dolphin-crewed Streaker, still on the run after narrowly escaping the bickering clans fighting over her above the ocean world Kithrup (read Startide Rising).  Streaker has come to Jijo to lick her wounds...and determine the next course of action in an attempt to get the cargo they are carrying back to the Terragens Council, or at least someone neutral, someone who won't use what Streaker discovered in the Shallow Cluster to take control of a Galactic Civilization now in turmoil.  In the midst of all this, the technologically inferior inhabitants of Jijo must not only deal with the worst Galactic civlization has to offer, but must also deal with the growing fissions within their own peaceful culture. <br /> <br />Infinity's Shore was a bit of a surprise for me.  Coming off Brightness Reef, which at times tended to drag on a bit and get mired in minutiae not particularily related to the story, this book was an easy page turner.  But more importantly than that, it began to establish links between characters and plotlines the previous book stubbornly refused to do.  The inhabitants of Jijo introduced to us in Brightness Reef -- Alvin and his friends as well as Sara, Dwer, Lark, Rety -- began heading in a coherent, if not always unified, direction.  While the characters native to Jijo finally took steps toward their \\"destiny\\" (a.k.a what Brin has in mind for them), the characters aboard the Streaker begin to connect to the environs around them, if a bit circuitously at first (i.e. automated scouts sent to \\"sniff\\" out the Jijoan culture). <br /> <br />What it all boils down to is a plain old good book.  Character and plotline development is much better than its immediate predecessor, \\"stuff\\" happens that makes you want to see what happens next, and like any good trilogy, there is just enough left frustratingly out of reach for the final book.  The one gripe is that there really is no conclusion to Infinity's Shore, probably quite irksome when it first came out and the next book, Heaven's Reach was a couple years away, but now it was only slightly annoying, seeing as how Heaven's Reach was sitting on top of my pile of to-read books waiting to be picked up as soon as this installment was completed.  This story is a fine addition to the Uplift universe and I now anticipate completing the final installment with due haste.	2005-02-16
US	26034295	R1CGP9HBILFEBV	0812532279	174012911	The Winds of Altair	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Not Bova's Best	Light years from Earth a conglomeration of modules bunched together forms what its inhabitants have dubbed the \\"Village\\".  The Church of Nirvan runs the Village...it is the Church's mission...a mission to terraform the savage planet of Altair VI.  But the pre-sentient inhabitants of Altair VI -- large \\"wolfcats\\" and giant \\"apes\\" thoroughly...dislike...the human incursion.  But the humans have an advantage...electronic probes surgically implanted in the brains of the animals of Altair VI enable humans to control them from the comforts of the Village...if they can get things to work correctly.  Several scientists have already gone mad trying to operate the devices.  This is where Jeff Holman comes in.  He's a student aboard the Village...one of hundreds of devout followers of the Church...and the only person able to operate the electronic probes and literally link minds with a wolfcat on the planet below.  But as the weeks and then months pass, Jeff finds himself facing a dilemma.  For it is the task of every person living aboard the Village to help eliminate the harsh methane atmosphere of Altair VI and create a human friendly oxygen/nitrogen environment.  But doing this will mean they must destroy the current ecosystem...including every animal now existing on the planet.  It falls to Jeff Holman to manipulate the animals of Altair VI to help destroy their very home.  A task that Jeff finds he can no longer perform.  When this happens, he will not only clash with his fellow students living aboard the Village, but also the leader of the Village, the man who not only heads the terraforming effort, but also heads the Church Jeff Holman is sworn to. <br /> <br />As a big fan of Bova, I was eagerly looking forward to picking up this book.  In all honesty, I was pretty disappointed.  There are some interesting ideas in this book -- manipulating other beings through electronic devices for instance -- but the concepts just weren't enough to get past some pretty shallow writing.  Jeff Holman is a somewhat interesting character, one that Bova seems to try and give some depth to, but he never succeeds very well.  (This is a departure from both some of his earlier [e.g. Colony, City of Darkness] and his later works [e.g. Mars, Moonrise, Moonwar], where his characters are bright, vibrant, and provide an extremely enjoyable read.)  The rest of the characters surrounding Holman come off mostly flat...with the troubled inventor of the brain probes that are used to control the animals on Altair VI involved in a romance with an African princess (who's also his laboratory aide).  Even the \\"bad guy\\", Bishop Foy, just isn't really all that bad, showing some common ground with Holman towards the end of the book. <br /> <br />It wasn't just the characters that came off kind of shallow.  The big moral dilemma of the book -- whether or not the wolfcats are \\"intelligent\\" enough to warrant a halting of the terraforming process -- comes off as...not particularily well thought through.  Bova's arguments, through Holman just aren't all that persuasive.  Bova doesn't present an argument for wolfcat intelligent much beyond the chimpanzee level.  And according to the rules set down by the far off World Government, Bishop Foy must only halt the terraforming process if human level intelligence is detected on Altair VI. <br /> <br />What it all boils down to is that Altair VI is a rare (though not unheard of) fluke for Bova...a story that does not grab you and force you to turn page after page, a story that does not make you want to stay up into the wee hours of the morn just so you can find out what happens next.  Personally, a rare dud for an author I usually truly enjoy will not turn me away from other stuff he has written...nor will I hope it will do the same to all who read this review...but Altair VI, standing by itself, should probably only be picked up by those who've really enjoyed Bova in the past, or those who simply want a quick read.	2005-02-10
US	26034295	RJ1JQ73RAI2R8	0553379267	284019128	A Canticle for Leibowitz (Bantam Spectra Book)	Books	4	3	7	N	N	Intellectual Post-Apocalypse Story	Miller's A Canticle For Leibowitz is broken down into three separate but mildly interrelated stories.  The first story takes place some centuries after the nuclear annihilation of our civilization, the second story some centuries after the first, and the third some centuries after that.  All three of the stories are connected via a common thread...The Abbey of the Order of Leibowitz...whose task it is to collect and store the remaining knowledge of a more advanced civilization (ours') and preserve it for the day when humanity will be able to use it again. <br /> <br />Miller's story is an interesting, if dated one.  Written in the 1950's Miller's view of the world clearly isn't the modern one.  But there are certainly similarities.  Miller's story reflects possible nuclear annihilation of both the US and the Soviet Union.  Today, the threat of terrorism, is at a minimum, hovering on the back-burners of all our minds.  Throughout the entire book there is the constant theme of cyclicality.  That everything in the human world (including our spirituality) goes through cycles.  From just the smallest tradition (in terms of the overall story) of the yearly Lentin fast, to the underlying mantra of the book that, like Santayana said, if we don't learn from our past mistakes we are doomed to repeat them. <br /> <br />This story is heavy on the symbolism.  In this way, A Canticle For Leibowitz would make a great reading assignment for high school or college English classes.  Unfortunately, this reader is only intelligent enough to pick up only the most blatant of metaphor and not intelligent enough to catch the more subtle. <br /> <br />The two major downsides of this book are that it can be awfully slow and drag at times, making it difficult to get through.  Also, there is quite a bit of Latin liberally dispersed throughout the story.  Seeing that most of the book is set in and around an abbey, it makes sense that the Latin is in there...it just would have been nice if Miller had given us more translations of his Latin verses. <br /> <br />Overall, this book is worth reading if you're interested in the way religion effects our lives (and may in the future); are interested in a well-written (if dated) piece of post-apocalypse scifi; or are just plain interested in reading an intelligently drawn story.	2004-12-15
US	26034295	R2Q1EF6VXOWAQ3	0553573306	229747971	Brightness Reef (The Uplift Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Incomplete But Enjoyable	David Brin's Brightness Reef centers around the planet Jijo and the six species of intelligent beings that have unlawfully settled on it.  One of these species is, of course, Human.  Others include the furry Urs, the crustacean-like Qheuen, the \\"wheelchair\\"-bound g'Kek, and the multi-ringed Traeki...as well as several other species.  After many years of war amongst the intelligent species on Jijo, several generations of peace have reigned.  Until Galactic criminals arrive on Jijo in an attempt to steal potential candidates for Uplift...and perhaps do other damage to those living peacefully on the planet. <br /> <br />Nothing is what it seems in this book.  The reader starts out with a certain series of facts laid out in the first half of the book, and then by the end, most of what we think we know turns out to be...not quite what one thinks in the beginning.  This goes for character development as well as the interlinking plots of the book.  The biggest problem I have with the book is that NONE of the major plotlines of the book are resolved after 659 paperback pages.  Granted, this is a trilogy, but Brin should have tried a bit harder to close at least a few of the more minor plotlines, making the transition of the major plotlines to the next book a bit easier.  Of course, I have yet to read the next book, Infinity's Shore, perhaps Brin does a better job in bringing the storylines together and continuing them...but if the conclusion to Brightness Reef is any clue, Brin will have had a tough time. <br /> <br />Despite the loose, relatively undisciplined tangle of storylines, Brin's story is enjoyable and believable given the circumstances.  In fact, he does a superb job of weaving together the complex relationships between Jijo's multiple intelligent species...as well as giving the reader a firm grasp of how these alien species view themselves with respect to Jijo and its environs.  Also, despite the story taking place very separate from Galactic culture as a whole,Brin does a good job of giving the reader some insight into how the six species of Jijo connect to the greater Galactic culture. <br /> <br />Overall, despite the numerous loose ends left untied (some of which I thought could be tied) Brin's Uplift is an enjoyable read and I look forward to continuing onto the next book.	2004-10-27
US	26034295	R3POGXAX96EAUQ	0812520009	942643770	In Endless Twilight: The Forever Hero, Volume 3	Books	3	1	4	N	N	I Really Wanted To Like This One...	In this, the final volume of The Forever Hero trilogy, the once and current devilkid Gerswin ultimately brings down the bloated Empire after much subvervsion and some ship-to-ship as well as hand-to-hand combat. <br /> <br />Coming off the previous two books of this trilogy I kind of knew what to expect from this final volume...a lot of mediocre combat scenes as well as some shallow political intrigue (at least from the point of view of the writing).  I was not disappointed.  Modesitt shows little creative depth in this book, and indeed, in the entire trilogy.  His plot jumps around so much that the only constant in this book is Gerswin himself...no other character sticks around for even 50 pages.  Also, this third volume has nearly none of the -- for lack of a better word -- compassion Gerswin imparts on several characters in the previous volume...The Silent Warrior.  But the book isn't all shallow political and military/mercenary meanderings.  The book did have some redeeming value, the end to the trilogy (the last 30 pages or so) did end somewhat...fittingly.  [Warning:  The last 30-40 pages hold at least two scenes that may not be appropriate for kids under 12-14.] <br /> <br />The volumes of this trilogy were the first works I had undertaken by Modesitt and I have to admit I am somewhat disappointed.  For all of Modesitt's prolificacy of writings I was expecting a more mature, thoughtful read...instead what I ended up with was only slightly above a \\"shoot 'em up\\" story designed for the early teen reader.  I can't tell you for certain that I will never read any of Modesitt's works again...but his stuff is certainly no longer high on my list of must-reads.	2004-09-10
US	26034295	R267I9Y9ZFGALW	044101058X	769506056	Redemption Ark	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Yet Another Great One From Reynolds	Redemption Ark was yet another superbly imagined story (after Revelation Space and Chasm City).  Taking place nearly a century after the prior two books, Redemption Ark continues the exploits of Ilia Volyova, Ana Khouri, and even Dan Sylveste and Tanner Mirabel (despite the fact that the latter uses another name it is clearly him).  In this, the third of four installments, the alien Inhibitor machines are bent on wiping out the human colony of Resurgam (200,000 people) and ultimately eliminating humanity entirely for reasons that aren't revealed until nearly the end of the book.  Redemption Ark introduces us to several new characters, amongst the most important are Skade and Nevil Clavain.  Both are Conjoiners...a technologically advanced faction of humanity whose mind-to-mind communication is made possible via advanced nanotechnology.  Skade and Clavain early on find themselves on opposite sides in pursuit of the same goal...acquiring the powerful cache weapons that Volyova used in the climax of Revelation Space.    Reynolds third book is another intricately woven, plausible tale of humanity's future.  Reynolds' background is in astronomy (as the \\"about the author\\" blurb on the inside of the back cover lets us know) and it is clearly apparent, with Reynolds descriptions of stellar phenomena -- both natural and...unnatural -- stealing the show at times.  Reynolds' characterizations of his major players are full and deep, while the characterizations of some of the more minor personae lack a bit of the richness he so artfully crafts with his major players.  Minor flaws aside, Redemption Ark is a remarkably sculpted yarn of interstellar travel, unusual aliens, far-future technologies, and of course the appropriate and timely doses of humanity's best qualities...love, courage, curiousity, and the ability to forgive.	2004-08-17
US	26034295	RYEA10KTUKQAB	0812516168	712110173	The Silent Warrior: The Forever Hero, Volume 2	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Devilkid on the Loose	The Silent Warrior continues to follow the devilkid Gerswin as he attempts to procure biological technologies that will aid in the recovery of his home, Old Earth.  Gerswin uses the OER Foundation and its administrator, Lyr D'Meryon, to cultivate these new technologies.  But, after many decades spent in the cause of restoring Old Earth to its former glory, Gerswin is getting restless at the slow pace and takes drastic action to speed up the process.  Oh...and he is also being hunted by the Empire-spanning Assassins Guild, who will stop at nothing to get to Gerswin...they will even go through those he loves.<br />The Silent Warrior was a better book than its predecessor, Dawn For a Distant Earth.  The pace was faster and more &quot;stuff&quot; just seemed to be going on.  But...Modesitt's prose is still clunky, and at times a bit difficult to read because of it.  Also, there were too many characters that just seemed to show up to advance the plot along -- usually this entailed dying.  I think Modesitt would have been better off developing two or three of the more minor characters to show us the depth that Gerswin is willing to go to use these people...even if they do benefit at times (not every minor character dies).  My finally criticism is that the ending to this book, like the last, was incomplete and not very satisfying...it just served to lead us into the third and finally book (which hopefully does have a satisfying conclusion...seeing as how it's the conclusion to the trilogy).<br />Despite these criticisms, this book really was much better than the first.  As mentioned above, Lyr -- the administrator of the OER Foundation -- was really an interesting character...at least from the point of view of her running the Foundation (we only get a few hints at her personal life).  Her interaction with Gerswin helps to transform him a bit as a character.  She shows him that he must rely, at least in some small way, on other people.<br />Overall, this book should only beread within the context of the trilogy, but is nonetheless a decent overall book and I look forward to topping off the trilogy.	2004-07-14
US	26034295	R3M7IMVS3K0A6Z	0812516133	125667859	Dawn for a Distant Earth: The Forever Hero, Volume 1	Books	3	2	3	N	N	New Beginning for Old Earth	Modesitt's Dawn for a Distant Earth follows the exploits of the &quot;devilkid&quot; Gerswin as he tries to rebuild Old Earth.  Centuries after the near-total collapse of Earth's civilization, an Interstellar Imperial cruiser rediscovers Old Earth and the destruction that was wrought upon the planet more than a millenia ago.  The officers aboard the cruiser capture a single child from the planet -- Gerswin -- and teach him more civilized ways.  As a devilkid, Gerswin had to scrounge for every ounce of his existence, fighting giant rats, coyotes, and rather mean shambletowners...the last vestiges of civilization on Earth...if one can consider a shambletown civilized at all.  Gerswin is ultimately sent to the Imperial Academy where he obtains a commission and is then sent back to become part of the effort to reclaim Old Earth from the near-total environmental/political/social devastation.  After many decades, Gerswin is put in charge of the reclamation effort...but beauracracies never change and it becomes harder and harder for Gerswin to get the materials he needs from the Empire to patch-up Old Earth.  Ultimately, Gerswin has to resort to extreme measures to insure that his obsession -- restoring Earth to its former glory, or at least livability -- is not permanently shut down.<br />This is the first Modesitt I've read, and I have to admit that I wasn't overly impressed.  Dawn for a Distant Earth wasn't a bad book, but I found the prose kind of clunky to read at times, as well the book having extending slow periods I had to trudge through.  Now, most all books are slow at times, but I didn't find the characterizations strong enough to aid in bringing us through the slow parts of the book.  Also, I found just about all of the characters -- including the main protagonist, Gerswin -- to be &quot;distant&quot; throughout much of the book; I rarely got intimate glimpses into the characters' psyches.  Though there are a few touching moments, especially regarding the interaction between Gerswin and a &quot;lost love&quot;.  Overall, I have every intent of finishing this trilogy, but if the second and third books follow the same path as the first, I think it'll be a while before I read any more Modesitt.	2004-07-06
US	26034295	R10U1KDX4KEARZ	0812545249	536696611	The Chronoliths	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Turbulent Times	In Wilson's Chronliths, Scott Warden tells of how the Chronoliths -- giant monuments sent back in time about 20 years by some entity known as Kuin -- have effected his life via his memoirs (this book).  Scott was on the scene soon after the arrival of the first Chronolith in Thailand.  Because of this, Sue Chopra -- a brilliant physicist -- takes an interest in him.  Sue is determined to figure out how Kuin is sending the Chronoliths back in time...and ultimately how to destroy them.<br />This is the second book I've read by Wilson and this is the second time I have felt like the characterizations Wilson puts together are quite decent, but that the story itself is lacking...though Wilson's ideas on the social upheaval brought on by the arrival of the monuments are worthy of note...I just wish he had gone farther with it.  In both the Chronoliths and the other Wilson book I've read, Mysterium, Wilson skips around in time quite a bit.  Maybe it is because of this that his plots seem to suffer.  The overall concept of the Chronoliths was an interesting one and the general way in which Wilson handles it isn't bad -- via Scott's memoirs -- I just wish he had put a bit more time into drawing the plot better.	2004-06-17
US	26034295	R25NLAMKWKL4VX	0765342855	481887785	Permanence	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Not As Good As Ventus	Schroeder's Permanence is about a young woman's discovery of a cycler -- a ship that goes a significant fraction of the speed of light while it travels in a big loop and is used for trade -- of mysterious origins.  It doesn't take long for Rue Cassels and a handpicked, though motley, crew to discover that the mysterious ship is of alien origin...and that she's not the only one that wants to gain control of it.<br />Schroeder's Permanence leaves something to be desired, though not in the story itself.  The story itself -- the alien ship and all the resulting discoveries relating to it -- is reminiscent of a Jack McDevitt novel.  Where Schroeder's Permanence doesn't muster up is in the way the prose itself was put together.  The first hundred or so pages the pacing feels all wrong...kind of fast, like Schroeder was rushing to get to the meat of the story.  The characterization of the more minor characters leave quite a bit to be desired.  I never got to know much of the crew Rue picks to join her in her rush to discover the alien ship's secrets.  You just kind of meet them and then they become cardboard, shrinking into the background until Schroeder needs them to pop up occassionally.  The novel's title, Permanence, comes from a future religion/social structure in which humanity is trying to put together a civilization that will survive the eons.  But Schroeder only uses one primary character (Mike) to let us into this unusual idealogy of Permanence.  While Mike does give us much to think about, I didn't really feel like it was enough to really get the overall picture of what Permanence really was supposed to do/be about.<br />Overall, this story was not nearly as good as Schroeder's previous book, Ventus.  Ventus was wonderfully original; and the prose seemed much better structured as well.  Ultimately, this novel feels like it was written in haste to meet an editor's deadline and if one chooses to read this book one should keep that in mind.	2004-06-09
US	26034295	R1XRP3OLNTUHY5	0553295276	312335182	Beauty (Spectra Special Editions)	Books	4	2	4	N	N	A Fairy Tale With A Difference	Tepper's version of the &quot;real life&quot; events that inspired numerous fairy tales (Cinderella, Snow White, Sleeping Beauty, etc.) was certainly an interesting book, if ultimately anticlimactic.  Tepper follows the title character, the half-fairy Beauty, through the events of her life as told by the main character herself through a journal.<br />I have to admit, I am finding writing this review a bit difficult.  Beauty was an odd story.  For about the first half of the book I didn't much care for the way Tepper had chosen to write this book...from the point of view of the journal.  But then that grew on me and I could see that it had advantages...the point of view gave me, the reader, the best possible vantage point from which to best understand Beauty's rather disjointed life.<br />The worlds Tepper draws in this book are a bit lopsided.  Some of them are drawn beautifully, while others lack much substance.  Chinanga, especially, is wonderfully drawn...while the 14th and 15th centuries lack much depth -- with the possible exception of Westfaire.  (There is an irony in all of this, but one that I cannot reveal for fear of giving too much of the book away.)<br />The characterizations in this book weren't the best.  While I understood the overall motives of the characters; I found that the motives of individual events of many of the characters were somewhat unclear...especially towards the end (Carabosse in particular).  The exception to this would be the main character, Beauty.  At each step along the way I understood how she felt, and if I had been placed in her circumstances I would have reacted as she had, felt what she did.  Beauty is the reason I'm giving this book four stars instead of three.  She makes this book stand out more than it would have otherwise.  An apt comparison might be an above-average performance in an only average film.<br />Tepper's Beauty is a rather poetic, if at times unidealistic, work of fiction.  Though in the end, Tepper does manage to portray an overall sense of idealism in some of humanity, if not all.  This book is recommended to those interested in unusual fairy tales, those with a penchant for Irish lore, or just those interested in a book that is a bit tough to sum up once one has turned the last page, read the last word.	2004-05-28
US	26034295	R1KCCI0EPC1XFE	0671656473	605441329	Marooned in Realtime	Books	4	15	15	N	N	Stranded	Taking place 50 million years after The Singularity -- a point in the 23rd century in which most of humanity disappears mysteriously -- The Peace War's sequel, Marooned in Realtime, centers around a murder mystery. Who killed one of the few remaining humans left on Earth by stranding the person outside of the bobbles -- a spherical stasis field in which time stops -- inside which everyone else was letting the centuries slip by?<br />Marooned in Realtime is certainly the equal of its predecessor, The Peace War...if not slightly better.  In this book, there is genuine suffering as well as genuine hope...both human conditions conveyed by several different characters and both portrayed very well.  Vinge makes the reader truly feel for the characters...even the villians.<br />Vinge also does a reasonably good job of conveying the far-future world...with its myriad of lifeforms and strange ways...as well as describing the peoples' reactions (good and otherwise) to this new world.<br />The only problem with the story was slight.  I thought Vinge could have drawn the action scenes a bit better...I found them to be a bit tough to visualize. (Was that the point?)  But overall, Vinge has once again created a marvelous story of a future humanity...one with its flaws and excesses...but also one which should inspire those today to leave our progeny something in which they may not only be proud, but in which allows them the best possible lives they can have...and then to do the same for those in which come after them.	2004-05-20
US	26034295	R15WWUDIMWYJ5F	0375751513	317139448	The Picture of Dorian Gray (Modern Library Classics)	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Picture of a Soul	This story about a man whose wish for eternal youth comes true through a portrait of himself delves into numerous philosophical nether regions.  Set in upscale 19th century London, The Picture of Dorian Gray deals with such topics as truth, death, and most especially beauty.<br />Dorian Gray's portrait ages while he remains his youthful self.  Gray uses this to his advantage (let's be honest, who wouldn't?).  Gray breaks hearts, corrupts others, and avails himself of numerous vices...most notably opium.  Gray also takes advantage of his youth by learning new things...music and gemology come to mind.  But Gray's self-enhancement does not make up for the copious sins he commits, both large and small...and even though his face does not bely his crimes, the portrait's face does.<br />Wilde's play on eternal youth was almost certainly novel for the time.  These days the concept has been played out time again.  But I do not begrudge Wilde for this...in his time, he was an innovator.<br />Four major things irked me about this book:<br />First, the prose is overly flowery.  I don't read many books written in the 19th century...maybe most of the books were written like this. Second, Wilde seems to use this book as a platform to give us his take on philosophical issues large and small.  True, most good works of fiction are a reflection of the society in which the author lives, but Wilde is NOT subtle about giving us numerous opinions on art, love, life, beauty, etc.  I think he could have been a bit more subtle doing this.  Third most of characters seemed overly naive.  Granted, this story is supposed to be set in a time and place where the rich did not concern themselves with trivial matters.  Nonetheless...so much was going on under the characters' noses!  Even, Henry Wotton -- Gray's longtime friend -- seems to come down with a bout of extreme naivete toward the end of the book.  Somehow, this made the characters seem shallower than they otherwise might have been.  And my final gripe kind of ties in with the characters' overall naivete.  From the time that Dorian Gray is granted eternal youth by whatever powers that be, to the end of the book, nearly two decades elapse.  There is only one, very minor, mention of Gray's youthful looks toward the end of the book.  Didn't anyone notice that this guy has, supposedly, aged nearly twenty years and yet still appears as youthful as ever?  Come on, even these days with plastic surgery and $100+ cosmetic cream, a 40 year old doesn't look half his age.  Why did only Gray's closest friend only offhandedly mention this toward the end of the book?  Surely someone else must have noticed?<br />Wilde's concept had a lot of potential, and it certainly does make one ponder life's intangible mysteries, but Wilde spent to much time proselytizing his 19th century philosophy for this book to really stand out.  This book is only recommended to those who enjoy Wilde's other works.final gripe kind of ties in with the characters' overall naivete.  From the time that Dorian Gray is granted eternal youth by whatever powers that be, to the end of the book, nearly two decades elapse.  There is only one, very minor, mention of Gray's youthful looks toward the end of the book.  Didn't anyone notice that this guy has, supposedly, aged nearly twenty years and yet still appears as youthful as ever?  Come on, even these days with plastic surgery and $100+ cosmetic cream, a 40 year old doesn't look half his age.  Why did only Gray's closest friend only offhandedly mention this toward the end of the book?  Surely someone else must have noticed?<br />Wilde's concept had a lot of potential, and it certainly does make one ponder life's intangible mysteries, but Wilde spent to much time proselytizing his 19th century philosophy for this book to really stand out.  This book is only recommended to those who enjoy Wilde's other works.	2004-05-18
US	26034295	RTUN8HY7UX516	0553562738	466136665	Doomsday Book	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Top-Notch Research...And A Great Story Too!	In the mid-21st century time travel has been perfected and is used by historians as a method of exposing oneself to one's research.  Kivrin, a British history student, uses time travel as a means of exploring the Middle Ages.  Kivrin goes back to a small village of the period.  There, with the aid of a device that allows her to understand the locals (they speak Middle English ya know!), she becomes a part of the village...and faces, along with them, their darkest hours.<br />The research Willis must have performed to put this book together had to have been enormous.  Indeed, I heard that she spent no less than five years putting all the research together.  Whatever the time spent in library for this book, Willis made it more than payoff.  Her detail of an English village in the Middle Ages is EXQUISITE.  Very few authors can truly put one into the setting of the story...Willis accomplishes this feat with grace.  One word of warning:  Parts of this book are quite depressing...so one should not undertake this book if one expects to walk away from it (whether one has completed it or is just breaking for tea) with a jovial spirit.  This being said, Willis has sculpted a true work of art that should certainly be shared with as many people as possible.	2004-05-15
US	26034295	R1VBNVKTKYMVY2	0441009387	80979198	Chindi	Books	4	8	8	N	N	There's A Lot Out There	I enjoyed Chindi.  I've noticed a lot other reviewers hitting the book on poor characterizations or for an unimaginative plot.  To say either I think is unduly harsh.  Yes, McDevitt could have drawn a few of his more minor characters a bit better...but I thought even those characters were drawn adequately enough.  The major characters were certainly drawn well enough -- one in particular provoked an extremely annoyed reaction from me at several points.  As for an unimaginative plot -- Chindi apparently has some similarities to other works of scifi -- I don't think that this makes Chindi any less of an interesting story.<br />I found Chindi to evoke a strong sense of mystery and wonder in me...two traits a good scifi book should have.  There's unquestionably a lot out there and McDevitt does a good job theorizing about some of the possibilites.  Chindi is third of four in the &quot;Hutch&quot; series (Engines of God &amp; Deepsix before it, Omega after it)...within the context of the series the book is certainly a must read.	2004-04-27
US	26034295	R29N7KZ7VZUZ04	0765308835	495112953	The Peace War	Books	4	51	55	N	N	All Bobbled Up	Stumbling upon this book in my local library, I decided to once again enter a world created by Vernor Vinge.  Several years ago I read both of Vinge's awarding winning books:  A Fire Upon the Deep &amp; A Deepness in the Sky.  Simply put, I have yet to be disappointed by Vinge.<br />In The Peace War, a rogue research group, later calling itself the Peace Authority, takes control of the world after perfecting the art of conjuring and projecting bobbles...impenetrable spherical force-fields.  Fifty years after they've taken down nearly every national government on the planet by negating the governments' every weapon with the bobble, a rebellion is finally stirring, a rebellion led by Paul Naismith...a Tinker whose mastery of Banned technology (high-tech stuff was banned by the Authority because it presents a threat to the Authority's power...namely the sole proprietorship of the bobble technology) puts Naismith in the perfect position to help bring about an end (with the help of his fellow Tinkers) to the Peace Authority's tyrannical rule.  But Naismith is an elderly man (around 80), and knows his time is waning.  Because of this, Naismith takes on an apprentice, someone he can pass his Tinker secrets to...an heir.  He chooses (or has thrust upon him, depending on the point of view) Wili Wachendon...for most intents and purposes a thief...but also a mathematical genesis of the highest caliber -- once Naismith instructs him on some fundamentals anyway.  Naismith and Wachendon, along with their Tinker friends and a few others, ultimately confront the Peace Authority on their own turf...in more ways than one...where nothing short of the fate of the world lies in the hands of Naismith, Wachendon, and their friends.<br />Once one puts aside the unbelievability factor -- conqueroring every government in the world, even with a technology as incredible as the bobble -- the book is really quite good.  The bobble is an interesting concept that Vinge handles quite adeptly...forinstance, in the shadows of the large bobbles that surround entire cities, the surrounding ecosystem is dramatically altered because of a change in climactic patterns brought forcefully on by the bobbles.  I found this to be a very plausible and common-sense consequence of using the bobbles that I'm not sure every author would have considered.  Also, I found it interesting that at least one of Naismith's devices (I won't say which, because it is one of the minor mysteries that gets solved early on in the book) seems to be an &quot;ancestor&quot; to one of the devices used in A Deepness in the Sky written about 15 years later.<br />Overall, The Peace War is certainly worth reading if you are a fan of Vinge, a techy, or are just plain interested in good scifi.	2004-04-20
US	26034295	R34941HB2OX2CZ	0553569538	184595435	Mysterium	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Full of Ideas	Mysterium was a bit of an unusal book in that I found the majority of the characters to be extremely rich and vividly drawn for such a short book (similar to many of Orson Scott Card's characters)...but I found the overall plot to be somewhat shallow, almost like the book needed another 100-150 pages to fully flesh out the storyline (unlike Card...who also tends to write shorter books, but most of his feel more &quot;fleshy&quot;).  This being said, I rather enjoyed Mysterium.  Especially, Wilson's tendency in the book to try and cram a lot of ideas into a small space (even if he doesn't always succeed).  Wilson covers everything from Gnostic Christianity to theories on the origin of the Universe.  He then links all of his ideas with a thread that at times seems somewhat tenuous, but not so much so that it does not get one &quot;pondering the imponderables&quot; about the nature of our existence.  Are we the dreamers or are we part of someone else's dream?  This was (roughly) a question posed by Shakespeare in one of his plays...at least I think it was Shakespeare.  But whomever said it, the question seems very apropos to the heart of this book.  Mysterium is the first work of Wilson's that I've read and even though the story itself could have been a bit better written, Wilson's ideas were extremely intriguing...I look forward to reading more of his work.	2004-04-16
US	26034295	R8TTGD015IXRI	0553279718	662268278	The Uplift War (The Uplift Saga, Book 3)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Best Uplift Book So Far	Brin's The Uplift War is definitely the best of the Uplift Series to this point.  Of the first three books in the series, The Uplift War does best what a good book should do...suck the reader in, hold on and not let go until the end.<br />The Uplift War focuses around the Terran colony world of Garth.  Due to events that take place in the previous book -- Startide Rising -- Garth is besieged by the Gubru, a fanatical, bird-like race.  Most of the humans on Garth are placed in isolation camps after the Gubru overrun the colony.  It's up to the few who escape internment (including several friendly aliens), along with a lot of chimpanzees, to try and repel the invasion.<br />I'd like to get it out here at the beginning that this book does occassionally have its slow parts...but then, what book doesn't?  That being said, the book certainly has lots of action and enough twists and turns to easily keep the reader interested.  The book also gives us our first look at the Tymbrimi...one of the few Galactic species friendly to those claiming an Earthly heritage.  I also thought the Tymbrimi corona was a great idea.  The corona is a kind of psychic antenna that not only allows the Tymbrimi to sense others' feelings, but also allows the Tymbrimi to craft emotion \\"glyphs\\" -- a kind of psychic artform that can influence others in a multitude of ways.<br />All but one of the main characters in this book is a non-human.  Brin did a great job of not only telling his tale from the perspective of Tymbrimi and chimpanzees, but also did an excellent job in really defining the similarities and differences of Tymbrimi and chimpanzees with regards to humans.  I've seen other reviewers proclaim that Brin is truly an expert at creating and then elaborating on aliens he has constructed with his pen...I enthusiastically add my voice to this chorus.<br />Overall, this book is far-and-away the best of the first three Uplift books.  The first three books in the Uplift Series happen to be the first three books I've read of Brin's.  I'd say that with The Uplift War he's finally living up to his stellar reputation for great scifi.	2004-04-14
US	26034295	RLRA92D6AKVCU	0525947647	857217799	Lies and the Lying Liars Who Tell Them	Books	3	7	12	N	N	Informative...But Repetative	Franken's book outlines numerous ways in which the far-right have twisted words or outright lied to suit their political agenda.  Franken goes into excruciating detail on everyone from Sean Hannity right on up the ladder to George W. Bush himself.  The most poignant chapter in the book is Franken's one page chapter on our &quot;National Dialogue on Terrorism&quot;.  In this brief chapter, Franken, in a pseudo-conversation of alternating quotes brings to the forefront the far-right's presumed view on concepts like terror, patriotism, and freedom.  Overall, Franken brings up many strong, well-researched points, but if the book has a downside it's that Franken is overly repetative, and at times incessant getting his point across.  I've got it Al, these people are liars.	2004-03-30
US	26034295	RTRE1UOL9HX1G	055327418X	610668604	Startide Rising (The Uplift Saga, Book 2)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Slow Start...Decent Finish	Hunted by numerous hostile Galactic species for having valuable information regarding the Progenitors (a race of beings who began the process of Uplift billions of years ago), the humans, dolphins and lone chimpanzee aboard the survey ship Streaker must survive while attempting to repair their broken vessel beneath the ocean of the water world Kithrup.  This premise leads the crew of the Streaker into confrontations (some hostile, some otherwise) with local species, their fellow crewmates, and ultimately the Galactic species searching for the crew of the Streaker from orbit.<br />Brin does a reasonably good job presenting the several points of view important to the telling of this tale...including about a half-dozen main characters from the Streaker as well as the point of view of several of the Galactic species hunting the Earthlings.  Several of the Galactic species portrayed were especially interesting...and horrific.  Hopefully Brin will follow up on these species in later books.<br />The biggest hole in the plot concerned an ancient mummy recovered from a derelict fleet before the start of the book.  The location of the derelict fleet is the reason the numerous Galactic species are hunting the crew of the Streaker...they believe the fleet to be from the time of the Progenitors.  Despite some attempts early in the book to study the mummy -- dubbed Herbie -- it defies study and then.....  And then nothing, Brin seemingly drops the Herbie plotline all together.  Hopefully Brin returns to the Herbie plotline in the next book.<br />This book was hardly the scifi masterpiece I had been expecting.  Overall, this book was only about as good as the previous one, Sundiver was --&gt; Acceptable.	2004-03-30
US	26034295	R39ZCDZ3S7OA9U	0553269828	224417303	Sundiver (The Uplift Saga, Book 1)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	An Acceptable -- Though Not Spectacular -- Start	I've been reading scifi for quite a few years.  As such, Brin's Uplift books have been on my radar for quite some time.  Picking up Sundiver to read I knew about what to expect...a decent first book in a trilogy whose sequels are award winners.  I got about what I expected.<br />In school I was an Anthropology major, as such I find the concept of Uplift -- that Patron races bring about sentience in Client races -- to be an intriguing fictional alternative (or perhaps addition?) to humanity's evolutionary origins a la Charles Darwin.  Also, I found the concept of the Progenitors -- a race of beings that initiated the process of Uplift billions of years ago -- to be an extremely interesting idea.  The Progenitors brings up the first, and only major, problem I had with this book.  The problem being the fact that they are only rarely mentioned in the book and play virtually no part in the climax of the book.  I guess, upon entering the Uplift universe with Sundiver, I had the preconceived notion that the Progenitors would play a larger role in the book's story (especially its climax)...I was a bit disappointed when they only wound up as the hardly-mentioned foundation of this new Uplift universe Brin invites us into with Sundiver.  I wasn't expecting all of the answers to the Progenitors in the first book of a trilogy...but a little more info on them would have been nice.<br />The second and final problem I had with the book was quite minor.  Several times throughout the book the characters &quot;Thank Ifni&quot;.  Clearly this is akin to our &quot;Thank God&quot;.  But it took my perusing of the glossary in the second book -- Startide Rising -- to learn that &quot;Thank Ifni&quot; is thanking Infinity or Lady Luck. It would have been nice if, in Sundiver, Brin had let us onto what this &quot;Thank Ifni&quot; meant, but this was in no way a major problem with the book and in no way detracts from an overall decent plot, but it was a little quirk that left me slightly annoyed.  (I figured &quot;Ifni&quot; was some semi-deitized hero of some future war or rebellion in space.)<br />The above mentioned problems aside I found the book to be reasonably well written.  None of the major characters came off as cardboard and though the plot probably wasn't strong enough to keep most people up reading in a marathon all-night session, it was certainly good enough to keep one engrossed enough in the story to easily finish the book without feeling like one has wasted their time.	2004-01-23
US	26034295	R1VDYM35FSXAV0	0765340054	582223695	Shadow Puppets (The Shadow Series)	Books	4	0	2	N	N	It Has Its Good Points	I am a big fan of Card and have read many of his works...including the previous books in this series.  As usual, Card draws his characters in incredible detail.  The relationship between Bean and Petra is very intimately and carefully shown and it is the highlight of this book.  But unlike the vast majority of Card's other works this book just didn't &quot;grab&quot; me.  It was a good story, and by no means will it turn me off to reading more of Card's works (or further books in this series), but somehow the book just didn't suck me in like most of his other books.  Overall, this book should definitely be read in the context of the series...but don't expect anything too spectacular --&gt; a rarity for Card.	2004-01-01
US	26034295	R314B2WUAM28J	0345417623	786105285	Timeline	Books	4	0	0	N	N	About Par for Crichton	I read this book a couple of years ago, soon after it came out in paperback.  I have read many of Crichton's other works and have liked most of them.  This book is no exception.  The plot is fast moving and it has plenty of action and excitement (i.e. people getting chased, violent deaths, etc).  Herein lies the main pitfall of the book, a pitfall I might note that Crichton seems to get sucked into a lot in his later books:  It feels like the book is being written with the sole purpose of being made into a movie.  I know I'm not the first to say this (and undoubtedly not the last), but I felt that it needs to be said again.  That is the main pitfall of the book.  Now here's the way I feel about it:  I don't care!  The book was a thoroughly entertaining read.  Crichton's science hovers on the implausible...but it doesn't matter...after having read the book I REALLY wanted to believe that someone out there was working on a way to send us all back in time as the world's greatest amusement ride.  I kept thinking...where would I go?  To see the dinosaurs?  Watch the rise of the Pyramids on the Giza Plateau?  We all have some TIME we'd like to visit.  This is what was a pleasure about this book...it's pure fantasy...leaving you with just a hint of &quot;Maybe that could happen.....&quot;  There is one more thing I forgot to mention:  After I finished this book, I didn't care whether or not Crichton had written it as a proto-screenplay or not...in fact, I was kind of hoping he had, because that would greatly increase the chance of a sequel being written...something I'm definitely looking forward to.	2003-11-22
US	26034295	R3H7HWOPXS6JIE	0451458095	424866307	Murphy's Gambit	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Less Than I Expected	This book was something of a disappointment.  The author had a great idea -- an entirely disenfranchised culture of people who live in space -- but the author did little with it.  Granted, this was the author's first foray into writing a full-length science fiction novel, so someone's first try at something shouldn't be shot down completely.  Nonetheless, the author could have done so much MORE with this concept.  To start, she could have, and indeed should have, fleshed out this novel much more...being a bit more descriptive about the characters' environs as well as the characters' themselves would have gone a long way.  Also, the author's consistency could use some work...in the first third of the book the main character gets her ankle hurt and while we do occassionally hear about the pain she's in...there are several times farther along in the story where she could have gotten at least some kind of cursory medical attention...but doesn't...like the author forgot about that thread of the story.  But oddly enough it was a couple of small details about this book that bothered me the most.  First, the main characater's home system encircles the star Formalhaut...there is NO star Formalhaut...the star's name is FOMALHAUT -- no &quot;R&quot;.  And the second little thing that bugged me was a reference toward the end of the book about &quot;intergalactic&quot; trade or travel (I don't remember which).  The word &quot;intergalactic&quot; means between galaxies, there is no travel between galaxies in the book, just travel within this one...what the author should have said was &quot;interstellar&quot;...which means between stars, which does happen in the book.  I know the above points are minor...I can forgive a weakly written story...but when someone screws up little details it really irks me.  Overall, despite the fact that this is the author's first attempt at a scifi novel, this book could have been so much better (and if the author ever decides to rewrite things froma different angle later on in her career I would certainly read that story).  This book is really best read in the early teen years and should be relegated to the Young Adult section of either your library or bookstore.  For ages 9-14 this book is definitely recommended (but not before a book like Orson Scott Card's Ender's Game)...for anyone beyond their early to mid-teens, this book is only worth recommending if you've got nothing else to read, want to get a taste of what your kids are reading, or are a really die-hard scifi fan.	2003-11-16
US	26034295	R1ESSNYB0QOYB6	0812536355	288499140	A Deepness in the Sky (Zones of Thought)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Great Prequel	After reading A Fire Upon the Deep, I was eager to get my hands on this prequel.  Vinge delivered again...in fact, this book is even slightly better than its predecessor.  The spidery aliens in this book, who are on the verge of a technical and social revolution, are brilliantly drawn.  The humans and their futuristic ships and corollary technologies are highly believable.  I thoroughly believe that Pham Nuwen was brought back in Deepness in the Sky because he was the strongest human character in the previous book...Vinge enhanced the Nuwen character beautifully, highlighting his strengths and elaborating on his weaknesses.  Also, I thought the unusual phenomenon of a planet whose day/night cycle is decades long was a rather clever plot device that Vinge used quite well and to his full advantage.  Overall, if you enjoyed its predecessor this book is certainly worth the read and highly recommended.	2003-10-30
US	26034295	R1R7XAWCTSBZBV	0812515285	646002347	A Fire Upon The Deep (Zones of Thought)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Pretty Good Book	I don't remember why I picked up this book in my library...but I did...and it was certainly worth it.  The characters are well drawn...and the Skroderiders and Tines are great aliens.  In fact, the Tines are the reason I gave this book four stars instead of five...I found them extremely engrossing, so engrossing that when Vinge switches to his human characters I didn't seem to enjoy it as much...also, with the human characters Vinge shows his training as a computer scientist...he tends to focus a bit much on computer systems in the &quot;human world&quot;.  This doesn't mean the &quot;human stuff&quot; isn't good, it really is...Pham Nuwen is a great character, full of depth and well...character (which is probably why Vinge uses him in the prequel, A Deepness in the Sky).  Overall, the book is definitely worth reading...and the prequel is even better.	2003-10-10
US	26034295	R1TAB3UN2K450T	0672520729	904286020	The multiple man: A novel of suspense	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Mediocre	I'm a big fan of Bova...but I've read several of his earlier works recently and they've only been passable.  I finished this book just last night.  The story idea was an interesting one but Bova didn't flesh it out enough.  The characters were a bit too cardboardy (<--is that a word?).  The novel is definitely dated...because it's a political-based novel written in 1976 I entirely expected this.  There were some interesting references that I doubt many people got.  For instance, one of the background characters whom you never meet but is mentioned is said to have moved to Sri Lanka...also, another briefly mentioned character had the last name of Bester.  The first is surely an homage to Arthur C. Clarke who has lived Sri Lanka for many years (perhaps going as far back as 1976, I don't honestly know); and the briefly mentioned Bester character is surely an homage to Alfred Bester...his most famous work is The Demolished Man, I've never read it but hear it's quite good.  Aside from Bova's homages to his fellow Scifi writers, Bova also predicted at one point in the book the development of closed-captions on TV...you have to remember that this book was written in the mid-70's...most people didn't even have cable back then.  To sum up, The Multiple Man leaves something to be desired...but for hardcore Scifi and/or Bova fans it's certainly worth reading.	2003-10-08
US	26034295	R10NO8H9JUPQ82	0812513509	241285325	Speaker for the Dead (Ender Quartet)	Books	5	8	11	N	N	Magnificent Sequel	Speaker for the Dead has made Orson Scott Card the first author ever to win both the Hugo and Nebula Awards in consecutive years...Card more than deserves the honor.  Due to the effects of relativity, Speaker for the Dead takes place 3,000 years after Ender's Game.  Speaker for the Dead's main plot device is the interaction between human colonists on the planet Lusitania and the planet's indigenous, sentient but primitive, species the Pequininos...more commonly referred to as the Piggies.  Card's depiction of the Piggies and the human colonists is equally deep...it doesn't take very long for the reader to develop strong emotional ties to the characters...in my view that's the mark of a great writer.  Of course, the book has to have a hook to keep the reader going...in this case it is that the Piggies harbor a very unusual secret that is, of course, not revealed until the end of the book.  But like it's predecessor (and indeed all Card books...at least the ones I've read...and I've read about half of the novels he's written) Speaker for the Dead does not rely so much on the plot hook to keep the readers going...but relies more on the incredibly strong character development of which Card seems to have a knack which no other author I've yet discovered has.	2003-10-07
US	26034295	R182Z341MW3QM1	0812550706	401439625	Ender's Game (The Ender Quintet)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The Best There Is...	I actually had to read Ender's Game my senior year in high school...it was definitely the best book I've ever had to read for school...and one of my top five books of all time.  Orson Scott Card is a master, and he's at his finest in Ender's Game.  The story of a child prodigy, Ender Wiggin is sent to a special military school for geniuses in the hopes that he -- and the others at Battle School -- can lead Earth's forces in defending the home planet against a pending alien invasion.  Ender is the best of the best...and it shows in his tactical thinking.  But those who run Battle School are constantly testing Ender above and beyond the other child geniuses at the school...and Ender may crack under the strain.  To find out what happens...read this book...it really is some of the best SciFi ever written.	2003-10-07
US	26034295	RONXJCPZS68QA	0553573357	487389793	Blue Mars (Mars Trilogy)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Great Finish	Blue Mars provides a superb end to a great Trilogy.  More than a century after the First Hundred colonized Mars millions of people now live on her surface.  In Blue Mars Robinson speculates not only on what the future of the Fourth Planet may be like decades after colonization, but also delves into the future of intra-Solar System space flight, the future of medicine, as well as a whole host of other probable technologies.  The only draw back is that this novel can, at times, mire itself in politics and seemingly forget that Mars is really big and has a lot more to offer than seemingly endless governmental meetings.  This slight drawback (and it really is slight) does not however overcome the grandeur and scope of Robinson's final book in the Trilogy.	2003-10-03
US	26034295	R2WE4K0I99NQ7B	0553560735	710568866	Red Mars (Mars Trilogy)	Books	5	2	7	N	N	Epic Mars...	I read this book quite a few years ago.  I could give you all my very detailed opinion of this book -- I loved it, it would be easy -- but I would never do the book justice.  Suffice to say the characters are marvelously drawn (years later I still think about them) and the plot marvelously intricate.  I've even gotten my mom and sister to read the Trilogy and they both loved it.  What it all comes down to is you should buy it (or borrow it if you must to get your hands on it) and read it (and the other two in the Trilogy --&gt; Green Mars &amp; Blue Mars).  You won't be disappointed...and you certainly won't regret it.	2003-10-03
US	26034295	RQW9LQ3V1PFNW	0553572393	710568866	Green Mars (Mars Trilogy)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Best of Three...	Green Mars is the best of a great Trilogy.  Fast paced and once again depicting vividly imagined Martian vistas this book is the quickest read of Robinson's Trilogy.  Also, with the introduction of several new characters Robinson continues to explore in immense detail how people are constantly shaping Mars...and how Mars returns the favor to those living on her.	2003-10-03
US	26034295	RV1SXQ1X2KAK6	0441009425	824019804	Revelation Space	Books	5	3	3	N	N	I Knew This One Would Be Good...	Heading into this book I had heard a lot of good things about it...but none of it firsthand...so even though I was fairly sure I would like this book I still had some doubt.  Very early on all doubt was squelched.  This book is fantastic.  A space opera in the truest sense of the word...spanning across light-years of space.  I've read quite a bit of SciFi and there are several ideas in this book that are, if not totally unique, used in ways that I've never seen before.  This book is definitely worth the time spent on it...you'll come away eager for more of Alastair Reynolds's work.	2003-10-01
US	26034295	R23IP99WAKATZL	0441010644	718327533	Chasm City (Revelation Space)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Dark and Disturbing	Coming off of Reynolds's Revelation Space I was expecting quite a bit from this book...and while it wasn't quite up to Revelation Space's standards this book is still quite good...which is why I've given it five stars when ideally I'd like to have given it four-and-a-half.  Set in the same Universe as Revelation Space this book switches back and forth quite well between Chasm City (and its orbiting environs), Sky's Edge, and the Flotilla launched to colonize Sky's Edge several centuries earlier.  All three locales can be quite gritty and disturbing at times...offering up a range of unusual people/creatures/people-creatures.  One unusual thing about this book is that, usually when I am finished with a book I look back on the characters and feel -- for lack of a better term -- the righteousness of the characters' actions...in this book that certainly wasn't there at its culmination.  Which is not to say the characters don't progress, change, and evolve...they most certainly do.  It is just that that evolution of character is quite different than what I'm used to.  This unusual progress does not just take place with the main protagonist...it takes place with other characters, major and minor, as well.  These unusual characters traverse through an often dark and disturbing world filled not only with unusual people/creatures/people-creatures but also a very dark, dank, smothering backdrop where one not only has to survive his enemies that may be pointing very unusual and lethal weapons at you, but also must survive the squalid backdrop surrounding everyone...whether you're the one holding the weapon or having the weapon pointed at you.  Overall, while this book may not be quite up to Revelation Space's standards it is still a great read, with well-developed characters and unusual plotlines.	2003-10-01
US	26034295	RX1KI4CKQMW2H	055356241X	807397831	Mars	Books	5	1	2	N	N	My Scifi Start	This is the book that got me started on Scifi about 8 years ago.  The characters are great.  The plot is fast moving and it's a really enjoyable read.  Along with Kim Stanley Robinson's Mars Trilogy this is the book that REALLY makes one want to experience the Red Planet for themselves...in person!  The vast majority of Bova's works are great...this book is on the top of the list.	2003-09-29
