US	26310289	R10O8J7X1UTKCV	0671733354	132993260	How to Stop Worrying and Start Living	Books	5	26	30	N	N	This book changed my life.  Seriously.	I bought this book back when I was sixteen years old and in sixth-form college.  I was having a hard time and felt depressed and scared about my future.  I was very, very worried about exams and what other people thought about me and this took a mental and psychical toll.  It sounds too good to be true but I read and implemented the advice in How To Stop Worrying and Start Living and my life changed.  I was able to control my worrying and live a balanced life at last.  I still reread the book regularly and especially when I need a boost.  As Dale Carnegie says, this book should be used as a workbook for life; it is not the kind of book that you should only read once.<br /><br />There are so many reasons why I love this book.  To start with, it really works.  But it is also easy to read and simple to understand, entertaining and utterly charming.  It isn't New Agey and includes plenty of wonderful examples of normal (and well-known) people.  It is a breath of fresh air in comparison to many modern self-help books.  Dale Carnegie is so humble, kind and understanding.  Every page is packed with down-to-earth easy to do advice.  I also liked the fact that the book includes a chapter on religion and how praying to God can help you in life.  However, if you aren't a believer then still get this book, as the author gives advice aimed at absolutely everybody.  The book also covers just about every possible problem I can think of; depression, lack of self-esteem, death of a loved one, work issues, financial / health concerns etc.<br /><br />Overall, I rate this book at highly as it is possible to.  I am certainly not implying that it is a `magic pill', but if you read it and follow the advice then I truly believe that your life will change for the better.  From time to time I still feel worried, but this book always provides me with the practical and caring advice I need to get myself back on track again.<br /><br />JoAnne	2005-10-02
US	26310289	RISLZM2WMJAZ7	1569245134	747987059	Party of One: The Loners' Manifesto	Books	4	43	44	N	N	Three cheers for loners!	When I was a little girl my teachers warned my mother that I was quiet and shy.  I had a best friend and my own exciting internal world where I was never bored.  Lucky for me my mother wasn't alarmed and didn't try to coax me into being more social - she accepted that I was like that by nature, and the fact that I was quiet didn't mean that I was a hopeless wreck who never had any chance of making it in this crazy old world.  Loners don't need to be cured - and contrary to popular belief you can be self-confident and still prefer being alone a lot of the time. <br /> <br />Years later, here I am - perfectly able to function in the real world and around other people and yet I still prefer the company of just a couple of close friends and my own internal world.  Anneli Rufus has it spot on in this respect.  People who are quieter by nature are not desperate psychopaths who can't express themselves.  They are the type of people who don't need to take a poll of a hundred friends before they make a decision.  Don't get me wrong, I LIKE other people, but I don't necessarily want to spend my every waking hour with them or talking on a phone to them.  I like shopping alone, reading alone, writing alone.  I like contact with others - but I need to recharge afterwards. <br /> <br />The Loner's Manifesto is therefore an important book.  The section on criminals and loners is absolutely fantastic - rich with insight and common sense.  In today's society the term loner is bandied about to explain away every single serial killer and psychopath out there.  Often true loners; people who like spending a lot of their time alone, are very happy that way.  True loners - people who are HAPPY spending time alone - are not the types who would go around shooting a bunch of their classmates, because they enjoy being alone.  It is only people who DON'T like being alone that get angry with others for rejecting them. <br /> <br />I give this book four stars rather than five because some of itI couldn't relate to.  Yes, people are often cruel to loners.  My personal experience though is that this mainly happens at school where crowds of kids think that anyone who likes reading and doesn't want millions of friends must be on par with Satan.  Now I'm older people tend to let me be.  People don't call me names for not being Ms. Social.  In general people are quite tolerant, and in my daily life I am friendly and kind to other people, so they don't have a problem with me.  My family and friends don't seem to think that I'm weird either, it's just the way I am.  I thought that the author was overly critical of non-loners. <br /> <br />Overall, `The Loner's Manifesto' is essential reading for anyone who likes spending a lot of his or her time alone.  The book is very informative and well-researched.  Reading about famous loners is particularly interesting when you consider how much loners have contributed to society in terms of art, literature, film and so on.  I didn't enjoy the Afterword, finding it quite upsetting, and sometimes the author is cruel towards non-loners (she calls them `the mob') but in general this book is thought provoking and self-affirming.  I highly recommend it. <br /> <br />JoAnne	2005-09-19
US	26310289	R143QZP0GWNQFZ	0446609781	332779254	Beneath the Skin	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Super Thriller	Three women.  They are all petite, pretty and targeted by a killer who sends them threatening love letters.  Zo is a schoolteacher, 23 years old, kind-hearted and likeable.  Jennifer is an ex-hand model and mother of three, 38 years old, selfish and rude; a woman whose husband treats her like dirt, and who in turn treats her own `staff' (nanny, cleaner, other hired help) and eventually the police, like dirt.  Nadia is a children's party entertainer, 28 years old, messy, tough and impulsive.  Each of them reacts to the threats differently and each develops their own relationship with the police and psychologist as they battle for survival. <br /> <br />This book is a fantastic read.  I haven't read many thrillers for a long time, I guess because I needed a break from the genre.  This book was the perfect choice to return to reading thrillers because it is so original, exciting, and suspenseful.  It is one of the best psychological thrillers I have ever read.  Nicci French's narrative was deeply engrossing.  Each time a new character was introduced it was as if I was transplanted into their head and felt their emotions, saw into the depths of their lives, learnt exactly who they were and what they stood for.  Although all three women were very different from me and I couldn't relate to some of their experiences or decisions, they just seemed like real, breathing people.  I raced through the book from cover to cover in two days. <br /> <br />Overall this is a wonderful novel.  I wish all thrillers were as slick and heartfelt and scary.  I definitely recommend this to all thriller lovers, or just anybody who wants a deep, psychological read with excellent writing. <br /> <br />JoAnne	2005-09-06
US	26310289	RQQDJIEZ1I1PG	0679767398	231777935	South of the Border, West of the Sun: A Novel	Books	5	1	2	N	N	My First Murakami	I thoroughly enjoyed this book.  From the first paragraph I was gripped by the flowing prose and intriguing characters.  What is particularly remarkable is that the main character is not particularly likeable, and yet I found myself totally caught up in his life and thoughts. <br /> <br />The novel starts when Hajime is twelve years old and his best friend is Shimamoto, a girl with a limp, whom he spends precious hours with listening to her father's record collection.   As Hajime grows older he becomes more reckless, first having a passionate affair with the cousin of his girlfriend and later on having flings whilst his wife is pregnant.  When he is twenty eight Hajime briefly sees Shimamoto and follows her, but they never speak, and Hajime doesn't see her again until she walks into one of his jazz bars almost ten years later.  The novel charts their developing relationship. <br /> <br />I liked the themes throughout the book: being an only child, the nature of love and desire, why people do bad things, the tediousness of office jobs and modern City life.  This was my first Murakami book and I'm looking forward to reading others.  To be honest, I can't believe that I enjoyed a book so much that ended with so many unanswered questions.  Shimamoto's life after she and Hajime were together when they were twelve remains a complete mystery, and the significance of the envelope with the money in it also raises plenty of questions.   <br /> <br />Overall this was a fairly short, stylish read - just as I like them.  Highly recommended. <br /> <br />JoAnne	2005-08-24
US	26310289	R2FB2EG5ENNRD5	1400075637	324088565	I'm Not Scared	Books	5	10	11	N	N	This book is brilliant	I'm Not Scared is a brilliant novel.  The plot involves a group of young friends who go out exploring the Italian countryside around the village they live in.  One of the friends, Michele, discovers a boy he believes to be dead in an abandoned outbuilding.  The novel follows the story of what happens when Michele returns to the boy and finds out that he is not dead, but is chained up in the hole.  When Michele discovers the reason why the boy is imprisoned, his whole world starts to crack and every last drop of his courage and bravery is tested.      The book wouldn't be brilliant if the characters weren't so strong and recognisable from our own childhoods.  The book shows with great skill the various sides of being young and realising that the world isn't perfect and that our family and friends do not always behave as we would like.  I felt like I knew Michele and his sister Maria and their little group of friends.  Michele's character was so realistic, and all the elements of growing up were described with such clarity - the fear of the outside world coupled with reckless bravery, the love / hate relationship with his parents, and the struggle between right and wrong.  I also thought that the characterisation of Michele's mother was spot on - a woman who is desperately tired and scared, whose personality is caring one minute and harsh the next.  The use of language is light and beautiful.  I read the book in a single sitting and am sitting at my computer in the early hours of the morning writing this review because I simply couldn't go to sleep without writing something down about it.    Overall this book is a literary treat.  It is absorbing, shocking, suspenceful, terrifying, touching.  The end doesn't tie everything up with a nice little bow on top, but it is realistic and frightening and hopeful.  I loved it.    JoAnne	2005-08-24
US	26310289	RUQUPACS3X47D	0821776312	665001835	Pure Dynamite (Zebra Romantic Suspense)	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Yep, it's pure dynamite - yipee!	Pure Dynamite is one of the best books of romantic suspense that I have ever read.  It's down to earth, exciting and has interesting well-developed characters.  All the action is crammed into a short period of time when Adam kidnaps Renata.  Adam is an FBI agent posing as a criminal in order to bring down a vicious crime family.  Renata is a doctor and Adam needs her to look after the prisoner he broke out of jail with, the youngest son in the crime family. <br /> <br />The plot is really good, but the characters are better.  Adam is protective and possessive towards Renata, and the dangerous situation they find themselves in means that all of his behaviour is realistic and understandable.  He doesn't go over the top with the whole alpha male thing either.  Renata is fantastic as a heroine.  She is brave and resourceful and feminine.  She doesn't whine and moan and refuse to eat.  She doesn't turn into a raving loony the minute she realises her feelings for Adam.  The book was like I believe good romance should be - slick, sexy, fast-paced, characters forced together for a period of time - and voila, romance is served.  The book doesn't have flowery descriptions or long angst-filled paragraphs.  It is rough n ready, with scalding chemistry (and plenty of respect) between Renata and Adam. <br /> <br />Overall this book is pure fun and perfect escapist fiction.  I'm sure you'll like this if you enjoy Linda Howard books such as Dream Man / Heart of Fire etc.  Highly recommended to romance readers who enjoy romantic suspense. <br /> <br />JoAnne  <br />	2005-08-19
US	26310289	R155EHMRUIR1LI	0380813173	906003663	Her Bodyguard	Books	4	2	2	N	N	I love the shoes!	I should start by saying that my least favourite kind of heroine is the poor little rich girl.  To some extent Lili is this character - definitely rich and a little spoilt.  However, Lilly is also funny, hardworking and outrageous.  It is hard not to admire her spunk - you certainly don't spend the whole book wanting to shake some sense into her (well except for when she demands to go swimming at the YMCA when Matt first starts acting as her bodyguard and then does something quite inappropriate at the poolside). <br /> <br />The plot is nice and twisty, if a little long-winded.  All of the information about shoes is fascinating and I think that the lecture Lili gives on shoes is one of the best parts of the whole book - so sexy and fun.  It made me want to parade around in some high heels myself.  Lili and Matt clearly have chemistry, and their reaction to each other is fun to read about.  Matt is tough and protective and Lili is feminine and feisty.  At the end of the day Lili's reaction to the fact that Matt is a bodyguard is a bit overdone - for example, when Matt steps in to stop a suspicious looking man from chatting her up at a bar she and her friend seem take it badly, when in reality Matt is just doing is job.  In the same way, Matt's endless protestations about why he doesn't fit into Lili's world are completely unfounded.  Matt earns a six-figure salary - if that doesn't make him financially well-off then I don't know what does.  Most people earn a low five-figure salary, so clearly Matt is a self-made man and should be proud.  Then again, it seemed that Matt actually had quite low self-esteem in this area, which I thought was an interesting angle for a romance novel, if not exactly a `turn on'.   <br /> <br />Overall the book is good, with plenty of light-hearted moments as well as gun-battles and action.  The author pays close attention to clothes and shoes (in line with the heroine's job as a shoe designer), which I liked a lot.  The fact that Lili wasoutrageous at times made me  like her, she was a real `character'.  I would class this book in the same category as To Die For, a book by Linda Howard where the heroine was nothing like my preferred type of heroine (down-to-earth and resourceful balanced with being a little vulnerable at times).  The book is fun enough to carry this poor-little-rich-girl kind of heroine without making me want to hurl.  Recommended as a light, escapist read.   <br /> <br />JoAnne	2005-08-19
US	26310289	R3L8IJE4OISL2I	0671870114	215596206	Saving Grace	Books	5	50	50	N	N	Second Chance at a Wonderful Book	I've spent the past week in a happy Julie Garwood book re-reading daze.  I whizzed through eight of her historicals and left Saving Grace for last.  For some reason I had convinced myself that Saving Grace was good - but not great - and that the novel wasn't as strong as say, The Secret, Ransom, or Honor's Splendour.  I couldn't have been more wrong.  The more I read, the more enchanted I became.  Saving Grace deals with a very serious issue (domestic abuse) and I think this is why I rushed through it during the first read.  However, I now realise that it's a super book with absolutely lovable characters, and a fine addition to the Scottish Laird / English Lady Garwood books. <br /> <br />Lady Johanna is simply wonderful; she enters the book as quite shy and scared as she has been beaten many times by her deceased first husband and yet she still manages to hold her own with Laird Gabriel.  I liked it that first of all Johanna had difficulty fitting in with her new clan - any woman would be vulnerable and untrusting at first if they had experienced Johanna's past and yet she becomes stronger and braver with each day that passes.  Johanna is actually very clever and analytical, as well as being sweet and kind hearted.  Gabriel is off the chart as a hero.  What is so special about him is that as well as being strong and brave he is also very sensitive to Johanna's feelings and never treats her cruelly - in fact he is very considerate and kind as he tries to earn her trust (without being soppy).  Gabriel was stigmatised as being illegitimate when he was younger and had a hard upbringing and I think this is part of the reason why he suits Johanna so well.  I especially liked the way that the author told you about how vulnerable Gabriel felt as a boy and how he dreamed about having a lovely wife and home as it showed a softer side to the powerful Laird.  Johanna and Gabriel are clearly perfect for each other.  There are great secondary characters too.  Auggie (an old manobsessed with golf), Alex (a boy Gabriel claims as his son), and Dumphries (a dog Gabriel rescued) all have their own unique personalities and quirks. <br />  <br />The plot is great.  It gives you some information about the horrible ways that women were restrained and abused in the past without going into too many details.  There is plenty of hilarious dialogue between Johanna and Gabriel and Johanna comes out with loads of funny sayings (There's more than one way into a keep!).  The ending ties up the loose ends nicely and the reader has no trouble in imagining Johanna and Gabriel living as a happy, passionate married couple for the rest of their lives.  Sigh! :-) <br />JoAnne	2005-08-04
US	26310289	R12GW5P8PH8DFZ	0671534270	65713554	The WEDDING  (GARWOOD)  CASSETTE	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Great Beginning, Great Ending	The Wedding is a good book; it has a substantial plot, lovable characters (Scottish Laird marries English Lady) and a happy ending.  However, there are a few things in it that stop it from being a favourite, or a book that I re-read often.   <br /> <br />The book starts well as the beginning is really lovely and funny.  Lady Brenna is on her way to marry Laird MacNare when Laird Connor Macalister and his soldiers attack and force Brenna to marry Connor instead.  Connor has long been trying to avenge his father's death, which MacNare was responsible for.  Brenna is a brave and sweet woman and Connor is a brave and powerful man and the story unfolds when Connor takes her home to begin their life together. <br /> <br />After the beginning however, the middle part of the book is quite lacking.  I didn't like the way that Connor treated Brenna some of the time.  I know that in other Garwood Scottish/England books the Lairds can be highhanded and arrogant (boy, can they ever!) but I thought Connor came across as cold and uncaring some of the time.  For example, the way he was so attentive towards his stepmother and happy to see her when he didn't give Brenna the same kind of respect.  I also absolutely hated the way Connor had Brenna's things moved into a different bedchamber by one of his soldiers (the lovely Quinlan), when it should have been obvious that she would feel humiliated and abandoned even though Connor thought that was what she wanted.  I just didn't feel that Connor was as protective and thoughtful towards Brenna as he should have been.  In addition, I found Brenna's flaw of leaving her stuff lying around everywhere quite irritating.  Later on in the novel Brenna does not tell Connor that she feels threatened by his stepbrother Raen, and this really bothered me.  Brenna was clearly scared out of her mind, and she simply should have told Connor that Raen was trying to touch her inappropriately.  I guess the reason why she didn't was because she was so unsureof Connor's affection - and that sums up the problem for me. <br /> <br />The end of the book gets better, but it can't make up for the earlier stuff.  Connor realises he loves her and tries to make amends, a scene which was actually very emotional (tears were shed).  It was clear that the two of them loved each other dearly and I was delighted at the ending.  The epilogue was so heart warming and I got the feeling that Connor had finally found peace inside himself and put revenge behind him.  Although the ending was perfect, the fact that Connor and Brenna hadn't been as close throughout the book meant that the novel lacked that certain something.  I fell in love with Brodick (in Ransom) and Iain (in The Secret) from their first entrance into the novel and the way they treated their heroines from the beginning, but Connor was just not up to the same standard until the end of the book. <br /> <br />JoAnne	2005-08-01
US	26310289	R2TL3299WW8KMO	0440224489	809177410	The Real Rules: How to Find the Right Man for the Real You	Books	5	47	48	N	N	Genuine and Sensible	The Real Rules is an empowering and inspirational book.  The writing style is friendly and insightful and the tips are very useful and easy to follow.  This book tries to undo the brainwashing that has led some women to hide their true selves in order to attract a man, for example, acting `light and breezy' on dates, always ending phone calls first and becoming busy and mysterious when you want him to propose... This book does not cater to women who are obsessed with their Big Day or who exhibit `Princess' behaviour; instead it focuses on kind-hearted, decent women who only want a man if he is right for them. <br />     <br />Rules given are honest and refreshing.  They include `Be Yourself', `Treat People the Way You Want Them To Treat You', and `Ask Questions Before You Get Involved'.  I especially liked the section on the six important character traits to look for in a man (and cultivate in yourself) such as high self-esteem and integrity.  The Real Rules are all about having faith in your ability to know what the appropriate way to behave in a relationship is.  For example, most women know how many times they should call a new boyfriend without going overboard and therefore there is no need to follow restrictive rules that only make you obsess about whether you are `doing the right thing' or not. <br /> <br />Barbara makes a great point that if you offend a man by being honest about your beliefs or hobbies then he clearly wasn't The One in the first place, so why obsess about making him like you?  If you are right for each other then games are not necessary.  Simple as that.  This book is certainly not about letting it all `hang out'.  Barbara is not encouraging women to turn up on dates as emotional wrecks or ball-busters and expect men to `love them as they are'.  She encourages women to develop some real confidence and self-esteem and become the best they can be. <br /> <br />The only thing I think people should be careful about is asking too many personal questions early on.  Barbara provides a useful list of seven areas that let you know whether a man is right for you, such as `ethics, values, morals', `past love relationships', `family background', `personal goals' and so on.  While I believe it is important to find out about these things, some of them should not be discussed in the early stages of a relationship.  It's better to wait until these topics arise naturally and it feels comfortable to share personal information.  In the beginning, you can often work out someone's general beliefs and attitudes by how they behave without having to ask them outright and this is fine until you both feel comfortable with sharing private stuff. <br /> <br />Overall The Real Rules is a sensible and fun dating guide that you can customize to suit yourself.  Whilst other dating guides assume that all men are immature and will `use and abuse' you if you give them half a chance, the Real Rules actually talks about women and men as mature, responsible equals.  Highly recommended for both men and women, but especially women who want to remain true to themselves in dating and not compromise their dignity. <br /> <br />JoAnne	2005-06-16
US	26310289	R2IGW5VJDE5BLS	006093221X	461102948	Mars and Venus on a Date: A Guide for Navigating the 5 Stages of Dating to Create a Loving and Lasting Relationship	Books	2	18	22	N	N	Confusing	Mars and Venus on a Date is a meandering book that covers the same basic principles over and over again without much clarity.  I found myself rereading some sentences because they were so confusing.  A simple point that could have been made in ten words was stretched to two or three pages.  I did appreciate some of the advice.  Some information was insightful, such as that men often need distance so that they can come back and be closer to you in the long run.  The 5 stages of dating: attraction, uncertainty, exclusivity, intimacy and engagement were interesting. <br /> <br />The majority of the book, though, was not right for me.  The way that Gray defines femininity and masculinity is confusing and seems to make sweeping generalisations. For example, a woman should be `self-assured' rather than `confident' because confidence implies that you can accomplish what you want without help (a masculine trait) whilst self-assurance implies that you know you will be able to get help to accomplish what you want (a feminine trait).  I consider myself to be a feminine woman and yet I am perfectly confident in my ability to accomplish my goals single-handedly.  The characteristics that Gray states women should have (self-assuredness, receptivity and responsiveness) seemed quite confining and unclear.  Gray seems to imply that all women who are confident are also ball-busters that scare men off.  I read the book for some tips on how to behave on dates to positively represent who I am, not to be told how to accommodate myself to John Does' every whim.     <br /> <br />Other suggestions in the book don't seem to make any sense or are so simple that you wonder why you need to be told them.  For example, `A man is attracted to a woman who clearly can be pleased'.  I can't help but reverse it and think: OK, but isn't `a woman attracted to a man who clearly can be pleased?'  Well, yes, so what's the point of the original comment?  I also find it cruel to men that Gray says that it isa man's duty to please a woman, and that her receptiveness to his attention and time is all the appreciation he needs.  I like to think of a relationship as a two-way thing.  The man is often the pursuer, but a woman should make an effort as well to actively show she likes and appreciates him, rather than just simpering. <br /> <br />JoAnne <br />	2005-06-15
US	26310289	R1YGF6A6MKR9RK	0345476255	397813117	To Die For (Blair Mallory)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Not exactly to die for, but it is fun!	To Die For is a different type of romance novel.  I didn't like it at first because the heroine, Blair Mallory, came across as annoying as hell in the first chapter.  She's stunningly beautiful, was a cheerleader and Homecoming Queen (which although I'm from England I still know about - who hasn't seen all those American teen movies usually starring the lovely Sarah Michelle Gellar / Mena Suvari or similar?), has a toned body, a tendency to play the `dumb blond' card and a rather hapless full-of-herself attitude.  She comes from a well off family and through a large divorce settlement has been able to fulfil her dream to open a gym called `Great Bods'.  So far, so yuck, right?   <br /> <br />However, as the book went on I came to like and rather respect Blair Mallory.  She has a fantastic sense of humour, a feisty attitude that means she never takes anything lying down, and the kind of gung-ho self confidence that is hard not to admire.  Wyatt Bloodsworth is a good alpha-ish guy, although I agree with another reviewer who said that she couldn't get over the nasty way he `dumped' Blair two years ago.  I mean, two years is a LONG time to wait before getting back in touch with her, and that only happened because of a murder.  At the end of the novel I didn't feel that attracted to him as I do with other Linda Howard heros, although I could see that he was just right for Blair. <br /> <br />Overall, this book is fun.  The story is probably 3 stars, but it gets bumped up to 4 because of the comedy.  If you weren't stunning and hugely popular as a youngster then it's kind of hard to really like Blair that much at first, but she is certainly endearing and there are plenty of laugh-out-loud moments.  The plot is rambling but hilarious as Blair stumbles from one mishap to another.  Throughout it all she still stays remarkably self-assured, puzzling over what colour underwear to put on that day and other equally important tasks...:-) Read this if you're looking for somethinglight and fun. <br /> <br />JoAnne <br />	2005-04-25
US	26310289	REOD8WZKHQUW3	0316778508	744408823	The Dogs of Babel: A Novel	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Lorelei's Secret	The Dogs of Babel (published as Lorelei's Secret in the UK) is a fantastic novel.  Trying to describe this book is hard, largely because as soon as you say: \\"Well, it's about this man who tries to teach his dog to talk so that he can find out how his wife died\\", you invariably get bemused looks and lose people's attention!  But before you stop reading...this book is actually really, really good.  It seems so realistic and engrossing that you don't want to put it down. <br /> <br />Paul Iverson is a professor who calls home to find that his wife, Lexy Ransome, has fallen out of an apple tree in their garden and died.  The police decide that it was an accidental death and Paul is left feeling bereft with only Lexy's dog, Lorelei, for comfort.  Paul then realises that Lorelei was the only witness to his wife's death, and as he is a professor of linguistics he starts to investigate language acquisition in dogs.  Through the course of the novel we learn more about Lexy, the relationship between the married couple, `talking' dogs, and what really happened on the day of Lexy's death. <br /> <br />The characters are real 'characters'.  They are unique and interesting with plenty of faults as well as good points.  Paul is a likeable guy and reading about Lexy's troubled past is very emotional and thought-provoking.  I found the ideas about suicide and depression to be particuarly interesting and chilling at the same time. <br /> <br />Overall I thoroughly enjoyed this book.  Even now, days after finishing it, I can't help thinking about the characters and plot and how good it was - in fact, I'm just about to start rereading it.  It isn't often you get a book that deals with such a weird subject matter in such a believable and original way.  I would definitely recommend that you read this book, especially if you like deep, psychological mysteries. <br /> <br />JoAnne	2005-03-24
US	26310289	R1T09A8QPZ5ACJ	0671019724	288105885	The Touch of Fire	Books	5	42	42	N	N	Beautiful, Moving Love Story	Phew!  It's been a long time since I read a really, really good romance, and I'm glad to say that my dry spell has finally come to an end in spectacular fashion.  The Touch of Fire is a beautiful, spellbinding love story about a decent, tough-as-nails man and a decent, compassionate woman. <br /> <br />The characters are wonderful.  Rafe is sexy as hell, protective, and possessive and Annie is lovely, clever and kind hearted.  Both have had a hard lot in life - Rafe on the run for crimes he did not commit and Annie the recipient of scorn because of her job as a doctor.  When they meet sparks fly, and Rafe's rough `n' tough exterior soon slips to reveal the tenderness underneath that he feels for Annie, and Annie alone.  There is no sexism either - Rafe helps with all the chores, does little kind things for Annie to make her life easier, and - get this - washed his own clothes!!!  I think I'm right in saying that in 1871 that was really something!   <br /> <br />The plot is exciting and takes place over a long period of time so you get to see Annie and Rafe in lots of different situations and see how their love blooms.  When Rafe says `I love you' I was absolutely blown away and the final pages had me in tears.  Rest assured there are no `big misunderstandings' here or unnecessary cruelty towards the heroine by the hero to keep the story going after 200 pages.  Instead we have a simple, exceptionally moving love story about two lonely people who were meant to be together.  <br /> <br />Linda Howard, I applaud you. <br /> <br />JoAnne  <br />	2004-12-22
US	26310289	R18GCHJW73BFQD	1932234004	75828016	Ring	Books	5	6	9	N	N	Truly Gripping - despite unlikeable characters	Ring is a great book, filled with suspense and fingernail gnawing moments.  I was drawn into the novel from the first page, and found myself manically turning pages despite the fact that the characters weren't particularly nice or noble or kind or, well, likeable.  In some ways this became an interesting edge to the book and didn't negatively effect the mounting tension. <br /> <br />Asawaka is a journalist who, through the deaths of his niece and some of her friends, stumbles upon a cursed video and must go on a quest to find out what he has to do to stop himself dying in a weeks time.  I expected Asawaka to be a typical leading `hero' character, perhaps a loving family man with a tenacious desire to find the truth.  Instead he was a workaholic who couldn't even be bothered to take time off work to go to his niece's funeral (in fact, he only becomes interested in her death when he realises that it relates to other strange deaths).  Worse still, his best friend is a self-confessed rapist - and yet Asawaka does absolutely nothing to get him to stop or to tip the police off.  I mean, come on, we aren't talking about somebody stealing paperclips here, this is RAPE.   <br /> <br />Don't get me wrong, the book was compulsive.  I can't wait to read the next two in the trilogy and am excited to see where it all goes from here as the ending was a bit of a cliffhanger.  I agree with the other reviewers who say that the book read like a translation, it certainly didn't flow like most of the books I read.  Some of the prose sounded awkward and the phrasing could be clunky.  But somehow because I knew this was a Japanese book it seemed to fit and didn't annoy me.   <br /> <br />Overall Ring is a great thriller and a real page-turner.  I feel compelled to say that there was quite a sexist element running through the story, particularly in the way Asakawa referred to and treated his wife.  Some examples are when his friend scolds Asakawa for becoming emotional: <br />`You're talking like a woman now.  If you've got time to bitch and whine like that you ought to use your head a bit more.' <br /> <br />And when Asawaka doesn't like the question his wife asks him (although it is a very reasonable question): <br />`He wished his wife would act like her name, which meant `quiet'.  The best way to seal a woman's mouth was not to reply.' <br /> <br />At one point there is a particularly odd section when Asawaka meets his best friends stunning girlfriend, Mai.  Remember that at this point Asawaka is trying to crack the code to save his and his friend's life and yet he drifts away and imagines Mai `wet and naked'.  With only a few hours left to save himself and his family?  Absurd! <br /> <br />JoAnne	2004-12-20
US	26310289	R1O6EVOY3B7HIB	0060976853	671325165	Sleepwalking	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Stylish and Chilling	Sleepwalking is an unforgettable and tension filled book.  It drew me in and held my interest completely from the first page to the last.  The plot is relatively simple, but it is the actions of the characters and the fascinating revelations of their pasts that really holds the reader.     I found Susan to be a very likeable character.  She is mixed up, damaged by her childhood and in a marriage with a man who she feels less and less connected to as the years go by.  On top of this is the fact that she is pregnant and feels as though her body is being taken over.  The novel is beautifully written and the simple economy of language stunned me in places because it was so emotive.  The affair between Susan and Lenny was very believable and the closeness they felt together was transmitted perfectly onto the page.     The Publishers Weekly review above really does the book an injustice.  Yes, Susan has an affair while she is pregnant but she does not do it callously - she is afraid and almost near breakdown.  I would not describe her husband as either particularly decent or likeable, although he does stand by Susan.  To me he came across as one of those stern, `put every problem a woman has down to hormones' type of man who wasn't interested in listening to Susan or talking about her problems.  He didn't even want to discuss her art, which was her passion.     The flashbacks to Susan's father's early life were wonderful and the character of Queenie was scary without being over the top.  The problems that Susan encounters with her own sisters and mother over an inheritance are very realistic and show how you can be related to someone and still have no clue as to why they are behaving in a particular way.  The only drawback of this book is that it seemed quite short, which would have been fine but the ending was a bit sudden and not as satisfying as I'd hoped.  But that, I suppose, is what life is often like.    JoAnne	2004-12-14
US	26310289	R36I8LWKWJ3QN8	0747557713	44022077	Now You See Me	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Gripping Psychological Thriller	Now You See Me is a beautifully written novel which keeps you absolutely captivated from the first page to the last.  The plot is exciting and heartbreaking, with an ending that will leave you shocked but not completely crushed, as there is a spark of hope for the future.  The characters are not stereotypical `lovable' people but are victims of circumstance and of their own destructive tendencies and this makes for a fascinating and gripping story. <br /> <br />The two main characters, Lamb and Doggo, are both hiding from things in their pasts and when their secrets are finally revealed you cannot help but feel desperately sorry for them.  I read a review of this book which says that it is impossible to read it without completely immersing yourself in Lamb's world and seeing everything through her eyes and I totally agree with this.  By the end of the novel I felt I knew her inside out. <br />  <br />The writing style of Lesley Glaister can only be admired and applauded.  It has a lovely poetic quality to it that effortlessly keeps you turning pages.  She can make anything seem possible (even spontaneous combustion!) and has a knack for making characters come alive no matter how bizarre they are. <br /> <br />Overall Now You See Me was a fantastic psychological thriller which was different from anything that I had read before in terms of style, plot and characters.  I would recommend this to anyone who likes being kept in suspense by a really, really good writer.  I am sure that readers who like books by Ruth Rendell / Barbara Vine will especially love this book.  <br /> <br />JoAnne	2004-09-14
US	26310289	RSI042OQQW6RE	0156029987	701095379	Vernon God Little	Books	5	3	5	N	N	The Good Ole Gift of Comedy	Vernon God Little is a fantastic book that is deliriously funny as well as thought provoking.  The plot gets progressively weirder and outlandish as it unfolds and our hero, fifteen-year-old Vernon Gregory Little, has no end of pithy comments to amuse us with.  There are lots of startling twists and plenty of snappy dialogue.  Certain parts of the novel really make you think about the absurdities of modern life with a new perspective. <br /> <br />Obsessed with sex, music and lacy panties (and any other type, for that matter) among other things, Vernon Little is a very unique character.  His mother is more interested in showing off to her friends than in what might happen to Vernon if he is convicted for murder and this makes us feel sympathetic towards him.  Most of the people involved in upholding the law are corrupt and careless, and the spectacle that Vernon's eventual trial became was very interesting: a mix of reality television and ghoulish entertainment. <br /> <br />Overall this book was fun to read.  It was fairly confusing at times and especially hard to get back into when I had to stop reading it for a couple of days.  The best things about it were the little gems of humour that seemed to explode from the page every couple of paragraphs.  I certainly burst out laughing many times and annoyed my family by reading out choice quotes.  I would recommend this book to people who are looking for something completely and utterly different and are not offended by profanity, mass murder related comedy, and lots of lacy panties... <br /> <br />JoAnne	2004-09-12
US	26310289	R1NPO7DTC4H695	081613720X	954641934	The Killing Doll	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Pure Class	I read this book as part of my holiday reading and I was not disappointed.  The novel was chilling, disturbing and all too realistic.  Everything was right on target - the plot, the characters, the fantastic ending...<br /><br />The main characters are a motley crew.  Pup is a young man who wants to be a geomancer (like a magician) and whose belief in magic is the catalyst of all the terrible things to follow.  Dolly is Pup's sister who is reclusive due to a birthmark on her cheek which has left her confidence in shreds.  Diarmit is a man who has never been the same mentally since a bomb exploded near him when he was a boy in Ireland, and who finds comfort only by carrying around a dangerous set of knives.  It is scarcely necessary to mention that these characters end up embroiled in a diabolical plot that is psychologically fascinating.<br /><br />I would recommend this to dedicated Rendell readers because this book is really, really great.  To first time Rendell readers I would suggest starting with some of her newer books (such as Sight for Sore Eyes) and working back to this one because the book is a bit old fashioned in its language and clothes the characters wear etc, but this is not a big problem.<br /><br />JoAnne	2004-08-21
US	26310289	R2U6KRBT6VXB2M	0688143806	380093282	Darkness, Take My Hand	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Dark and Distrubing	<br />Darkness, Take My Hand is no lightweight crime novel.  It is tense, emotionally draining and frightening.  Detectives Patrick Kenzie and Angela Gennaro are put through so much mental and physical punishment that at times the book is hard to read because it is so unrelenting.  The villains are extremely bad and some of the murders that are committed are horrific.    <br /> <br />The characters and their relationships really make this book.  Patrick and Angela are so likeable, despite all the rubbish in their lives and their messed up pasts.  To a certain extent they have the most dysfunctional lives I have ever read about.  Both of them are divorced (Angie from a wife beater and Patrick from Angie?s sister), both of them are in love with each other but aren?t prepared to show it, both of them use commonplace sex as a replacement for other things in their lives, and so on.  Their relationship is further complicated by a new love in Patrick?s life ? Grace and her young daughter Mae.  As in the first novel in this series, the parts where Patrick looks back to his childhood and thinks about his father and his and Angie?s relationship back then were especially poignant and had me in tears. <br /> <br />The plot for this book was rather too gruesome and scary for me.  There were too many horrible murders and threatening characters.  A lot of the events that happened were tragic and made me feel quite depressed.  Put it this way, I don?t think I?ll feel up to reading the next novel in the series for at least a month or two.  I need time to recuperate first!  <br /> <br />Overall this is a good thriller which is fast paced and emotional.  I recommend it to those who can stand violence and gruesome murders because these take up a large part of the book.  The highlight for me was the relationship between Patrick and Angie ? I wanted to force them to get together.  Still, maybe it will happen for them in the third book in the series? <br /> <br />JoAnne <br />	2004-07-22
US	26310289	R2GWQ8O9C9QODF	038073186X	339916413	Shutter Island	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Fiendish, Absolutely Fiendish	Shutter Island is a terrifying novel that chilled me to the bone.  It played the hugest trick on me of any book that I have ever read.  During the last couple of chapters I had this feeling of absolute disbelief - could this really be happening? Surely the book couldn't end this way.  Please don't let it end this way!  But it did.  Bloody hell, I thought the ending to Hannibal by Thomas Harris was nasty.  In this book, the ending is fiendish.<br />The characters were all described very well and with lots of imagination.  Teddy Daniels is a US Marshal and the year is 1954.  He is investigating Shutter Island with his new partner US Marshal Chuck Aule.  You feel great sympathy for Teddy as his past is revealed - the death of his lovely wife Dolores and his violent clashes in the war.  All this is written about in the most beautiful language.  The scenes where Teddy goes back over his overpowering love for Dolores are particularly poignant.<br />Dennis Lehane draws you in to the plot by creating vivid characters, scenery, intrigue, mystery and clues at every turn.  And then he calmly proceeds to turn everything inside out in the most shocking way possible. The plot was terrifyingly plausible and the last couple of chapters so hideous that they defy words.<br />Overall this is a great novel.  Great in its ability to deceive and shock.  Can I honestly say that I enjoyed reading it?  Well, with tears falling down my cheeks as I got through the final chapters, I came to the conclusion that no, it had not been an enjoyable reading experience!  Somehow I suspect Lehane never intended it to be.  But he did a fantastic job of scaring the life out of me.<br />JoAnne	2004-07-07
US	26310289	R2ZVHOPT7MVA96	0316779849	781757267	Something Might Happen: A Novel	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Excellent Thought-Provoking Novel	Something Might Happen is a tense and absorbing novel.  It looks at what happens to the family and friends of a woman called Lennie after she is brutally murdered in a close-knit village in England.  The story is told through the eyes of Tess, Lennie's best friend.  As the book progresses we uncover a lot about Lennie and her husband Alex, as well as Tess and her husband Mick.  Other characters also have a large part to play, notably Tess's four children, the police officers investigating the murder, the family liaison officer and Lennie's father, Bob.<br />At first I was startled with the way that the novel is written in the present tense, which is different from anything that I've read before.  It was very effective in making the action seem real and up close and I got used to it quickly.  The characters were complex and interesting although they often did things that were not good for themselves - but I guess that's grief for you.<br />The dialogue was faultless and really captured the way that each person was responding to the murder.  The descriptions were also great - the ones for Tess's baby Liv really made her come to life in my mind.  The tension grew and grew, but I was still not prepared for the ending, which was a real shock.<br />Overall Something Might Happen is a thought-provoking book.  It makes you think about the fact that something can easily happen at any moment to fracture our world.  It's not a whodunit as such but I think most fans of crime novels would like it - it falls into the psychological category.  I'm certain that I shall remember the characters and plot for a long time to come.<br />JoAnne	2004-07-06
US	26310289	R2JWUJJIW52HD5	0380726238	733601761	A Drink Before the War (Patrick Kenzie/Angela Gennaro Novels)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Witty and Gritty	A Drink Before The War is an exciting and thrilling novel which fuses so many different elements; crime, violence, romance and humour.  I read the book really quickly because it was so compelling and found myself laughing out loud at the one-liners.<br />The main character Patrick Kenzie tells the story in first person narrative.  He gets more and more interesting and complex as the book progresses, and the insights into his childhood were fantastic.  This book is the start of the Kenzie/Gennaro series, and it really is very promising.  I've already read the last in the series - Prayers for Rain, and I can't wait to read the others to see what happens to them in between.<br />I thought Angie Gennaro, Patrick's PI partner and unrequited (?) love, was fantastic.  Other reviews have commented that the sparks between them didn't fly, but I feel the exact opposite.  I thought the romance between them was realistic and great.  The part near the end where they kiss after the bomb scare was really touching.  There was one point where Patrick says `At that moment, I think I knew what love was', when Angie smiled at him.  Perfect :-)<br />Overall this is a fantastic book which is witty and gritty.  From a personal perspective, I was a little disturbed by just how violent it was sometimes.  One particular scene where Patrick and Angie listen to someone being tortured on a cassette recording was particularly horrific.  On reflection I think the book needed some of this violence to justify the lengths that Patrick and Angie go to later on, and to show the reader how bad the situation in the neighbourhood really was.  In other words, the violence was not gratuitous, but I didn't like it either.  I would recommend this to those who want to read down-to-earth crime and have a good laugh at the same time.<br />JoAnne	2004-07-04
US	26310289	R279ZK5POTIT96	045121157X	370279775	Monkeewrench (A Monkeewrench Novel)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Want to Play?	Monkeewrench (published under the name Want To Play? in the UK) is an original, fun and explosive crime novel from a promising new author.  The plot was exciting and sprung more than a few surprises on me, the characters were refreshingly unique and very well described.  The ending was high in tension and very satisfying.  <br />The plot focus is split between three main character groups; firstly Sheriff Michael Halloran with his partners Bonar Carlson and Sharon Mueller, secondly Detectives Leo Magozzi and Gino Roselph, and thirdly the Monkeewrench `crew' - Grace, Annie, Roadrunner, Harley, Mitch and Diane - owners of a computer company who have mysterious pasts.  The contrast between all these different characters and their situations made for a fast paced and varied novel.<br />What impressed me most was probably the writing style which was hilarious in many places, despite the serious subject matter, and touching in others.  Characters such as Jackson, the small boy that Grace befriends, and the behind-the-scenes spouses of the police detectives were also very enjoyable to read about.  The dialogue was fabulous because it was so realistic and inventive.<br />Things that I didn't like?  Well, there are always a few!  There were a fair number of coincidences in the book and some situations seemed too convenient.  Sometimes I thought the novel became a little bit silly with certain exchanges between characters and some of the characters seemed more like caricatures because there were so over the top, particularly Annie, Harley and Gloria.  Finally, the religion aspect got a little tiresome, it seemed all believers were viewed as `fanatics', the type of people who condemn others to the fires of hell whilst being shockingly self-righteous.  I suppose the kind thing that the priest did at the end of the novel for Magozzi seemed to address this imbalance to some extent. <br />Overall I recommend Monkeewrench (or Want to Play? as I know it) to all thriller and crime readers.  It's a refreshing and interesting book with a range of likeable and deep characters.  And it's funny - what more can you ask for?<br />JoAnne	2004-07-01
US	26310289	RP5TI7CVBWRZJ	0671568841	781227321	All the Queen's Men	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Emotional and Thrilling Novel	All The Queen's Men is an emotional novel which packs the same punch as another Linda Howard book I read recently, Cry No More.  What these novels both have in common is HEARTACHE - the characters have tragic pasts, baggage from previous relationships and at the same time are dealing with serious and dangerous situations.  All in all, this leads to a read which can seem bittersweet at times and is definitely not as carefree as other Howard romances such as Dream Man or Heart of Fire.<br />Niema and John are likeable, well-rounded characters.  Niema is still grieving for her loving, tough late husband when John comes back into her life.  She is a charming mix of toughness and vulnerability, and I really liked her.  John is the typical `hard man' who is smarting from how his first marriage ended and, to some extent, is unable to express his true feelings because of his dangerous job.  The relationship between the two definitely seems meant to be and most of their interactions are a mix of passion, tenderness and love.<br />As other reviewers have mentioned the ending is quite abrupt, but it made me cry anyway because I was so happy for them both.  Overall I was unable to leave this novel for a moment while I was reading it, but I don't reread it often simply because it makes me feel sad - despite the happy ending.  I can't help but think that their lives will be hard because John will always have to look over his shoulder and be ready for an old enemy to attack him and Niema again.<br />JoAnne	2004-06-30
US	26310289	R2O1SZ3JXKE902	0345453409	457341957	Dying to Please: A Novel	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Fun, but not a classic	I picked up this book a few days after finishing Cry No More, a Linda Howard novel that is very emotionally draining.  I wanted to reread Dying to Please because I remembered that it was equally passionate but much more light-hearted.  Although the issues it deals with are serious it is definitely not as harrowing as the aforementioned Cry No More.  For me, this is a good thing, I like romance best when it is relatively angst-free and the characters aren't tortured beings searching for salvation.  However Dying to Please is not Linda Howard's best.<br />The characters in this book, Sarah Stevens and Thompson Cahill, are likeable and fun but not classics.  Cahill is sexy, ripped and outrageous, but for me he lacks the x-factor that made Dane Hollister (Dream Man) and Ben Lewis (Heart of Fire) stand out.  His messy divorce and cheating ex-wife have damaged him and made him question his trust in women (a little too much sometimes, if you ask me) and this makes him wary of a relationship with Sarah at first.  Suddenly though he changes his mind and the relationship rushes into full swing - it all happens very fast after a fairly small amount of interaction in the first quarter of the book.  Sarah is clever and driven and keeps Cahill on his toes and finds herself slightly bemused by how fast their relationship moves, rather as I was.<br />Overall this was a good book, the chemistry between the couple was white hot.  I thought that for a first love scene that the wrestling / handcuffs / drainpipe thing (not as weird as it sounds when you read the book!) was probably a bit too kinky, but it was also passionate and sexy.  Linda Howard even managed to pull off a `betrayal' without making me want to poke things in my eyes (I've read far too many romances where the betrayals committed by the hero against the heroine are unforgivable and incredibly cruel.  At least this one is explainable due to Cahill's flighty ex-wife, and he pays emotionally for what he does).<br />If you're reading this from a crime-reader perspective then you'll probably be disappointed as the murders and sleuthing are secondary to the romance by a long way and the reason behind the murders is fairly outlandish.  I would recommend this to Linda Howard fans, but to those new to her I would recommend starting elsewhere as this one isn't her best, try Dream Man / Heart of Fire first.<br />JoAnne	2004-06-26
US	26310289	RU94V53NSFSF0	0345453417	554884676	Cry No More	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Emotionally Draining Novel with Great Characters	Cry No More is an emotionally draining book with a dark side.  However, it is also an exciting romance that is heart meltingly tender and passionate.  The overall style of the book reminded me a lot of All the Queen's Men, an earlier Linda Howard novel, in which the characters (and indeed the reader!) were equally tormented.  In Cry No More we have Milla Edge, a woman whose baby was brutally snatched from her 10 years before, and James Diaz, an assassin who prefers an isolated - but often lonely - existence.<br />Milla and Diaz were fantastic characters, multi-layered and believable in every way.  Their interactions clearly showed how the love and companionship developed between them.  By the end of the book it was clear that they were perfect for each other - no one else would have been quite right for either of them.  The plot was good and the dialogue was realistic and fresh.  I thought the `betrayal' Diaz carried out against Milla was quite out of character for him as he was so conscious of letting her be independent and respectful of her as a person.  However, in the end it seemed to strengthen their relationship and Diaz realised just how brave and kind Milla was, which I think he needed to know to completely fall in love with her.     <br />I do have a few problems with the book that make it a four star rather than a five star review.  Firstly, although Diaz was a tough, bad man (always good fodder for a romance novel) he was sometimes too brutal.  Never with Milla, but in his dealings with `bad guys' and murderers.  I understand that Linda Howard had to show how committed he was to his cause, and arguably a lot of the violence was justified, but I hated a scene where he works on a villain with a knife.  I just found everything about it squeamish and horrible.  I want to read about a `bad' man, but not to that extent.  Secondly, sometimes the book detoured away from the romance a little too much.  I must admit that I read romantic suspense novels purely for the romance, as I prefer to find thrills and chills and who dunnit's within the covers of a crime novel, so I would have liked Milla and Diaz to be together a little bit more.<br />Overall Cry No More was a satisfying romance novel and I cried buckets of tears during the final couple of chapters.  The ending packs a solid emotional punch that leaves you reeling.  The only drawback of such an emotional novel (like with All the Queen's Men) is that they are sometimes painful to read.  When I think about rereading them I get a tense feeling in my stomach that normally means I end up reading Dream Man or Heart of Fire instead because as well as being great novels with fabulous characters they are more light-hearted and don't leave you in floods of tears.   <br />JoAnne	2004-06-11
US	26310289	R2GVOAJYF0XMUI	0805073337	447498808	What Was She Thinking?: Notes on a Scandal: A Novel	Books	5	3	6	N	N	Complex and Thought Provoking Novel	I thoroughly enjoyed Notes on a Scandal and was hooked from the first page.  The language Zo Heller used was beautiful, with really original descriptive phrases and lovely metaphors.  The characters were very realistic and I liked the fact that the setting was very ordinary - a school in England.  It was great to read something which was set in simple and familiar surroundings because it made the story seem very real and intriguing - all those hidden passions and desires hidden behind the hustle and bustle of the school corridors!<br />The plot is deceptively simple: a forty something teacher called Sheba has been having affair with one of her pupils.  The narrator is Barbara, a friend to the teacher in question.  She is a complex character who veers from being endearingly normal to flashes of her darker side.  The book is set after the affair has come to light and Sheba is now living with Barbara.  As the novel progresses we dip back into the past to find out how the affair progressed and what part Barbara had to play in it all.<br />I thought the author did a great job at capturing the day-to-day lives of the characters: the overheard comments that circulate as gossip, the daily annoyances that grow and grow until boiling point, the complexities of family life and, in contrast, single life.  I was particularly challenged by Sheba's affair with the schoolboy and how to react to this, both in terms of how she should be `punished' and whether she `took advantage' of the boy or not.  Of course, the issue of whether a male who has an affair with an underage girl would be treated much more severely than Sheba was also of great interest.<br />Overall I highly recommend this book to one and all.  It was stimulating, intriguing and complex and I'll definitely read it again.  <br />JoAnne	2004-06-09
US	26310289	REO0R9B5CNKS6	0375407243	128660469	Everything You Know	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Hilarious Novel With Tragic Undertones	Everything You Know is a fascinating and hilarious novel with deeply sad undertones.  Willy Muller is an unlikeable character but against the odds you find yourself enjoying his company, largely due to his twisted sense of humour.  I liked the way that there were no taboos which Willy would not cross, all the things which are often avoided in 'polite' conversation were discussed many times - sexuality, religion, class divides, and so on.<br />I enjoyed reading about all the characters.  I particularly found the extracts from Sadie's diaries to be very touching because it was clear that she was a damaged woman with little self-confidence.  The description used was very original and you could really picture all the different characters clearly.  Of course, because all the action was described through Willy's eyes it was impossible to know what other people's opinions were about different events, which was intriguing. <br />Overall Everything You Know is a little gem of a book.  It is rare that a novel can have you laughing out loud while still being aware of the sad undercurrents of the story.  The concluding idea that it's never too late to be good was inspiring and interesting to think about.  Highly Recommended.<br />JoAnne	2004-06-09
US	26310289	R36Q8CIKDDZLGA	0671019759	12019675	Dream Man	Books	5	1	1	N	N	You've Just Entered Romance Heaven	Dream Man is my idea of romance heaven.  The characters are superb, the plot is cleverly constructed, and the dialogue is hot and witty.<br />Marlie Keen is a great female lead.  She is bright, kind-hearted, brave and just a little vulnerable.  She thought she had lost her clairvoyant powers six years ago when a killer attacked her, but now they have returned.  She goes to the police after a terrifying vision of a stabbing murder.<br />At the police station she meets Dane Hollister, a vibrant, honest, cynical cop who has enough sex appeal to send shivers running up and down your spine.  Dane is mocking of Marlie's claims, but after investigating her past he realises that she is genuine.  As soon as Dane realises Marlie is innocent he starts a no-holes barred campaign to win her over.  Dane comes across as a real ALPHA male; tough, strong and brave and yet besotted with Marlie.  In other words, a man completely deserving of the title HERO.<br />Overall Dream Man is a wonderful book that I reread time and time again.  It is clear that Dane and Marlie are meant for each other and their passion and love leaps out of the pages.  The only thing I don't like about this book is the epilogue, which comes across to me as silly and makes Dane look rather weak rather than funny.  I'd recommend this book to anyone who wants to read a romance with a protective, alpha male who is not a nasty tough guy but a kind and genuine guy.<br />JoAnne	2004-06-05
US	26310289	R1S3AQ6CGGCO69	0671027573	142020743	Mr. Perfect	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Absolutely Hilarious	If you're looking for a laugh-out-loud romance packed with sex appeal and suspense then this is for you.  OK, so the plot is slightly unbelievable (particularly if you read a lot of crime books) and the villain may as well carry a signpost around their neck with the words `QUIET PLEASE - SERIAL KILLER AT WORK', but cracking dialogue and fantastic characters more than make up for these problems.<br />Jaine Bright is just about the only heroine I've ever read who manages to come across as zany and spontaneous without also being wimpy and irritating.  Jaine holds down a good job, has a great car and house, and is an independent woman happy with her life.  Cue Sam Donovan, a sexy, muscular cop who happens to be her next-door neighbour and you know that you're reading Linda Howard at her best.  When a killer targets Jaine and her friends it is up to Sam to protect them and track down the villain.<br />The chemistry between Jaine and Sam is great and the use of humour is so funny in places that you can't help but burst out laughing.  There are some incredibly risqu innuendos which are just fantastic, my favourite was when Sam walks into the kitchen when Jaine and her sister Shelley are preparing a cucumber to use on Jaine's eyes.  The plot bounces along at a fairly fast rate but I felt the crimes really acted as a backdrop for the romance, as Jaine and Sam find various excuses for getting `to know each other better'.<br />Overall Mr Perfect is a funny and romantic novel with a great ending and likeable characters.  You can't really take it seriously as a crime novel, but who cares when the book is such a perfect blend of suspense and romance?<br />JoAnne	2004-06-05
US	26310289	R1DU3ZY06GQWJM	0515136379	214237042	Key of Knowledge	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Emotional and Fun Novel	Key of Knowledge is an emotional and fun novel about how librarian Dana Steele finds true love, true friendship... and the next key in the trilogy.  I'll admit right away that I gave the first instalment of the trilogy (Key of Light) a less-than-glowing 2 star review, but I enjoyed this second instalment a whole lot more for a variety of reasons.<br />Firstly, I really liked Dana's character; she was witty, feisty and fun.  Most of all I loved how obsessive she was around books - been there, done that :-).  The book really got to me emotionally because Dana and Jordan were clearly meant for each other.  With Malory and Flynn in the last book I just didn't get the feeling that without each other they wouldn't be complete, but that x-factor was definitely there for Dana and Jordan.  The chemistry between them sizzled and I was in tears when Jordan talked about his mother's death and when the couple finally got back together.  The plot was pretty good although I confess the Goddess stuff went over my head and I skimmed some of those parts.  The development of the other romances moved along quite nicely too.  <br />Overall this review is a 4 star rather than 5 because I'm still not loving the supernatural elements  la Rowena and Pitte and all the Goddess stuff.  I think that anyone who is passionate about books would like this novel as they would relate to Dana and Jordan.  I have a feeling that people who aren't real booklovers will not get Dana's character at all, but for me reading about her was like looking in a mirror. <br />JoAnne	2004-06-05
US	26310289	RT6PY1O2I7ZMU	0671019740	625458726	Heart of Fire (Pocket Books Romance)	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Listen Up!  I've Struck Gold!	If ever there was a solid five star romance then this is it.  Heart of Fire is a passionate, sexy, funny and exciting novel that thrills from beginning to end.  The plot is racy and pacy with plenty of interesting plot twists and the main characters have so much chemistry between them that the book is practically on fire.  <br />From a physical perspective Ben Lewes is pretty much the ideal male hero; tall, dark, muscular, rough `n' ready...[I could go on all day... :-)].  He has the perfect blend of sex appeal and confident masculinity.  He is the ultimate alpha - tough, strong and brave and a real bad ass when he wants to be (but never to Jillian).  Often such men are paired off with some spineless little moaner with less personality than a lettuce leaf - you know the type, don't you? - the kind of heroine that forgets to eat all the time and spends her days pouting and fainting if anyone speaks above a whisper.  Therefore it is definitely worth celebrating that Ben's true love is Jillian Sherwood, a kind-hearted, clever, feisty woman.   Ben might be the super-alpha male but Jillian is more than able to match him.  It was hilarious to read the passages where Ben was desperately trying to work out whether Jillian was into him or not.<br />My other favourite things are that there are plenty of chances in the book for Ben to defend Jillian or to do some charming protective gesture.  The dialogue between them is snappy and fun.  The other characters add a lot to the story and the ending is great too.  I guess I should admit that a few things bothered me - Ben was a little too free and easy about sex before he met Jillian, and there's a scene near the end where Ben tracks Jillian down in her bedroom after a brief seperation which I find a bit cringe worthy.<br />Overall Heart of Fire is a lovely, sizzling romance that I highly recommend.  In addition to this book, Dream Man by Linda Howard is also one of my personal favourites.  Dane, the hero in that book, has certainsimilarities to Ben.  And that, fellow readers, is a wonderful thing!<br />JoAnne	2004-05-31
US	26310289	R1ZFRIJF56M8FZ	0440224675	313045692	Hannibal	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Horrifying and Tragic	I am unsure whether to give this book five stars or one star - something which has never happened to me before in my long history of reading!  It is especially odd since I have recently reviewed both the splendid Red Dragon and Silence of the Lambs and given them both five star rave reviews without a single qualm.<br />(SORRY - SOME SPOILERS FOLLOW)<br />The case for 5 stars<br />Hannibal is written beautifully, with the stunning metaphors and descriptive language I came to love in the past two books in the trilogy.  Thomas Harris writes with a unique style that is a pleasure to read.  The story is full of twists and turns and the ending is the most unusual, shocking one ever written - but whether this is a good thing remains to be seen.  <br />Hannibal Lecter's character is developed and deepened, which I liked, and we are given insights into what has made him into such a monster.  Not much is added to the character of Clarice, but most of her background was discussed in Silence of The Lambs.  Instead for most of the book we empathise with her as she has been held back from promotion because of jealousy and sexism.<br />The case for 1 star<br />By the end of the novel I felt completely depressed.  Hannibal Lecter was the only character to come out on top.  Although he was original and interesting I didn't want him to continue roaming free without any justice.  Clarice Starling was stripped of all intelligence and power and became nothing but a brainwashed doll in an ending that was shocking and horrific.  I could not understand how the author could bare to have Clarice sit down with Lecter and Krendler at the dinner table and take part in what followed.  The reasons given; 'hypnosis' and 'drugs' were not explained satisfactorily.<br />Other characters had also deteriorated.  Jack Crawford had nothing left to live for and none of his dynamic, strong personality remained.  Barney was unrecognisable from the 'nice' guy who was kind to Clarice and Hannibal in Silence of The Lambs, he had turned into a complete sleaze ball.  The lovely Ardelia Mapp was left in despair.<br />The characters that were added since the last book were corrupt and weird.  Pazzi, the Italian police officer, seemed all right at first and then deteriorated into an unlikeable idiot before being despatched in a terrible way.  Mason and Margot Verger were unbelievable.  Mason was a paralysed paedophile missing most of his face / body, who got his jollies tormenting children and reminding his sister how she performed sex acts on him as a little girl.  Margot was a lesbian weight lifter who had a burning desire for a child using Mason's sperm in order to receive her inheritance.  (It's only when you write it down and read it over that you realise just how ridiculous it sounds).  <br />Yes, I know the ending has been mentioned in all the reviews before mine but I can't finish without mentioning it again.  I found it frightening and horrible and not well explained.<br />Overall, I'll give this novel 3 stars and try to forget it as quickly as I can.  I always reread books I like but I don't think I ever want to see a copy of Hannibal again for as long I live, let alone read it.<br />JoAnne	2004-04-21
US	26310289	R3UGTPNHSWYOTL	0385319673	247672694	Red Dragon	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Superior Serial Killer Novel	Red Dragon is an exciting and grisly crime novel which is brilliantly written in a taught and deceptively simple prose style.  We are introduced to Dr. Hannibal Lecter in this book and it is a great introduction, setting up the action which continues in The Silence of the Lambs (a book I also gave a five stared review).<br />In this book the villain is Francis Dolarhyde, a man with an exceptionally shocking past.  I especially liked the inclusion of several chapters about his childhood because they accomplish the seemingly impossible, to make you feel real sympathy for him because the cruelty he suffered as a boy was horrific.  The sections of the book where Dolarhyde is alone with Reba McClane really got my pulse racing because Reba's blindness made her extremely vulnerable to him. The plot was excellent and very twisted, involving several shocking and uncomfortable developments which had me biting my nails rather a lot!  Will Graham, the FBI investigator, was also a well developed character and I was willing him to succeed throughout.<br />Overall I would recommend Red Dragon to those who like to read tense and beautifully written crime novels - and can put up with the gruesome and scary parts which are quite disturbing.  Like The Silence of the Lambs, Red Dragon is a superior serial killer novel and a must read for crime fiction fans<br />JoAnne	2004-04-13
US	26310289	R1NQHO0JY5J5WP	1843952270	275424272	Remember Me	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Chilling and Compelling Psychological Thriller	Remember Me is a chilling and compelling psychological thriller.  The novel centres around Rachel Carter, a successful woman who works in a London advertising agency, lives with her carefree boyfriend Andrew, and generally appears to be content and in control.  However, behind the glossy image of her life lies the terrible truth about what happened to her when she was younger and living in the small town of Underlyme in Dorset, England.  When Sophie, her best friend from those days, comes to live in London they have an unexpected meeting and Rachel's control starts to disintegrate. Soon she soon finds her life - and her grip on reality - falling apart.<br />I really enjoyed this book, from the believable and interesting plot to the range of diverse characters.  I felt a lot of sympathy for Rachel and liked the way her demise had an inevitable feel about it.  I raced through the pages and really enjoyed the dialogue and language used.  I particularly liked the author's writing style, using plenty of original metaphors to make the writing more engrossing.<br />Overall Remember Me is a great thriller which I wouldn't hesitate to recommend to others.  It is a very good example of a novel set around a seemingly `confident' person who is really anything but.  The novel's ending is worth waiting for as it is shocking and quite different from the way most books of this type end.  All in all an entertaining and thrilling read.  <br />JoAnne	2004-04-13
US	26310289	RQB8WAP2V3G5R	0380730367	240949428	Prayers for Rain (Patrick Kenzie/Angela Gennaro Novels)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Funny and Original Crime Novel	It was startling to read this book because Dennis Lehane's writing style is so distinctly unique and engrossing.  I was drawn into the story from the start because the narrative was funny, smart and original.  I particularly enjoyed the descriptions of the characters which made them come alive on the page which is a real accomplishment for any writer.<br />The plot was intriguing and compelling and I somehow ended up reading the whole book in the space of one day (and most of the night!). I had never read a Kenzie / Gennaro / Rogowski crime novel before and so I was new to the characters, but they all seemed to me to be very well developed and interesting.  I even liked the fact that Bubba was more like a superhero than a real life human being.  However, I was shocked by some of the things that the lead characters did, for example, arranging for criminals to be beaten up severely and other shady dealings which made me a bit uncomfortable.<br />Overall Prayers For Rain was a great introduction for me into this series.  The excellent humour was a real surprise and definitely made me read on and there was a satisfying twist at the end.  The twists and turns of the plot were entertaining and the action scenes were described really well.  I'll certainly be checking out other Lehane books in the future.  Highly Recommended.<br />JoAnne	2004-04-13
US	26310289	RZGEBPUUG2WI7	075284329X	677976398	The Beach Road	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Entertaining and Surprising Psyhchological Thriller	The Beach Road is the subtly threatening crime debut from Sarah Diamond.  The story is about two very different girls in a secondary school in England.  The first is Jane Sullivan, a lonely and in many ways odd girl who has only recently discovered her mother dead.   The second is Beverly Green, a gorgeous and popular `golden girl' who keeps the strained nature of her home life secret from all her friends.  The two girls are brought together when Beverly goes through a terrible experience whilst on holiday which makes her susceptible to being flattered by Jane's adoration when she comes back home.<br />The plot is interesting and unusual and really draws you into the two girls different worlds.  You can't help feeling sorry for Jane, who is the classic underdog with a bad start in life, although I found it harder to warm towards Beverly because she seemed quite nasty and snobbish at times.  The writing style of the author was very good and really engrossing.  The ending was quite startling and different to what you might expect.  <br />Overall The Beach Road is an entertaining read.  I'd recommend it to those who like psychological thrillers and are willing to read something which does not end particularly happily.  I would also urge readers to try out Sarah Diamonds next two books, Cold Town and Remember Me.  I thoroughly  enjoyed these two books and think she is going from strength to strength.<br />JoAnne	2004-04-13
US	26310289	R3S4B1EDC4I7SO	0440235448	390826918	A Sight for Sore Eyes	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Gripping Psychological Thriller	A Sight For Sore Eyes is a tense psychological thriller which is both sensitive and shocking.  It is one of my absolute favourite books and when I reread it I am always astounded again by just how good it is.  The plot is fantastic and it is amazing how seemingly different parts of the plot converge so all the characters are linked and meet up.  The language Rendell uses is simply beautiful and very descriptive.<br />The characters are believable and masterfully created.   Teddy has been neglected by his parents and he grows into a cold, vicious young man who has no conscience.  He could have turned into another freakish serial killer straight out of Hollywood but instead Rendell convinces us to do the impossible: actually feel sorry for him and step into his shoes.  Francine is smothered by her obsessive step-mother who barely wants her to step outside their house alone.  When the two meet and Teddy falls in love with Francine we know that the slide into disaster has begun.  The result is, inevitably, murder.<br />I would recommend A Sight For Sore Eyes to anyone that has a love for psychological thrillers that delve deep into the minds of their flawed characters.  I thought that the dnouement was fitting and satisfying and there is even a neat little twist about a subplot in the final pages.  Overall this book is highly, highly recommended!<br />JoAnne	2004-03-15
US	26310289	R2HKULXW4IQ5Y0	0312924585	247672694	The Silence of the Lambs (Hannibal Lecter)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Shocking and Gruesome Crime Novel	The Silence of the Lambs has to be the most gruesome book I've ever read. The good news is that the characters are really well developed and the plot is thrillingly twisted.  In other words: there is more to this book than cannibalism and the ability to shock.<br />I have never seen the film (although I'm definitely going to now) but on it's own the book is still very disturbing.  The smallest things that Hannibal Lector said could be construed as threatening - the fact that he was behind bars and locked away did not diminish his scariness.  Lector is incredibly intelligent and perceptive, as well as possessing a twisted sense of humour, which makes him a fascinating villain.  The matter of fact way that the author retells his horrible crimes only makes them seem more terrifying.  The other killer in the story, Buffalo Bill, was equally demented, although in a less intelligent way than Lector.<br />I really enjoyed reading about Clarice Starling and I felt that she was a great lead character; brave, decent and driven.  The insights into her childhood and her fears of inadequacy were very well done.  Jack Crawford, Clarice's superior, was described really well too and the parts of the book set around his home life and dying wife Bella made him seem more real and sympathetic.  The plot was impeccable and the tension that was built and maintained throughout was extraordinary.  <br />Overall The Silence of The Lambs is a crime novel that will go down in history as something special.<br />JoAnne	2004-03-15
US	26310289	R1NOHJVPVQ1DSV	044661162X	77432495	Chasing the Dime	Books	5	0	0	N	N	An Excellent Thriller - Well Done Michael Connelly!	Chasing The Dime is an exciting, fast-paced and intriguing thriller.  It is about Henry Pierce, a successful scientist who is on the brink of an important breakthrough when he gets distracted by telephone calls to his new apartment for a woman called Lilly.  Henry has never heard of the woman before but his curiosity leads him to try to find her.  When he realises that Lilly is involved with selling sex via the Internet he becomes determined to find out what happened to her in order to assuage some of the guilt he feels for an event in his past.<br />The plot was fantastic, with lots of twists and turns.  I was astounded by how much research Michael Connelly must have done in order to put the whole thing together - and even more impressed that he made it all so interesting!  The characters were original and well developed and the ending was ultimately satisfying.  I really came to care about Henry and what happened to him although at the beginning I was surprised that he would be motivated to search for a missing woman based only on a couple of wrong number calls, especially considering the pivotal point in his career that he had just reached.  However when his motivations were revealed later on it made sense.  <br />Overall Chasing The Dime was a good thriller and an entertaining read: I read the whole thing in a day and a half.  It was my first Michael Connelly book - but it won't be the last.  Highly recommended.<br />JoAnne<br />By the way, anyone who likes the type of situation Chasing The Dime is about (i.e. a person whose ordinary life suddenly careens out of control and they find themselves getting in more and more trouble) should consider reading Derailed by James Siegel and The Analyst by John Katzenbach.  I gave Five Star reviews to both as they are fabulous thrillers set along the same lines.	2004-02-16
US	26310289	R1F932MWDSFA9E	0345333195	843636085	The Secret House of Death	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Tense Psychological Thriller (A little bit outdated - 1968)	The Secret House of Death is about a woman who is thought to be having an affair with a central heating salesman.  Eventually the two lovers are found dead together and the verdict is that the man shot the woman and then himself, perhaps in a suicide pact.  The story is mainly written through the eyes of a neighbour called Susan Townsend who knows all about the pain of adultery, her pompous ex-husband Julian left her for another woman.  Therefore she can't help but sympathise with the handsome widower.  But questions are still to be answered about the exact circumstances of the deaths and who was involved.<br />The plot is interesting and the characters are intriguing.  I liked the fact that the different characters personal experiences of adultery affected the way they thought about the murders and who they blamed for the crimes.  I had a few problems with the book; it got a little bit slow in places and there were a few coincidences at the end (although life, I suppose, is full of these in real life).<br />Overall this book was a good read.  I would particularly recommend it to those who have read all the latest stand-alone Ruth Rendell books not featuring Inspector Wexford who are now trying to read her `back catalogue'.  For a first time reader it would probably be best to start with some of her newer books such as `Sight for Sore Eyes' or `The Bridesmaid' because you could be put off by some of the outdated references.  For example, most of the women in the book are housewives all concerned with getting `Daddy's dinner' ready for when he returns home from work in between gossip sessions with the next-door neighbours, which is not realistic nowadays<br />JoAnne	2004-02-14
US	26310289	R320IR9M1YYXGV	0553802526	941388331	The Killing Hour	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Great Characters and Grisly Crimes	I enjoyed The Killing Hour although not as much as The Survivor's Club which I gave a Five Star review.  I thought the tension was good although I would have liked the narrative to stay with Kimberly and Mac for longer in places rather than continually returning to Tina and others for such long periods.  Perhaps I would have liked the sections focussed on Rainie and Pierce Quincy more if I had read the previous books where they featured, although the emotional moments between them were very sweet even though I didn't know their entire background.<br />The strong point was definitely the clever plotting and the grisly ideas that Gardner had about how the killer committed the crimes.  The characters were also very deep and had interesting backgrounds but somehow this novel failed to grip me.  The first couple of chapters dragged a little although I suppose they were necessary to set up the rest of the book.  I liked the instant chemistry between the main characters, New Agent Kimberly Quincy and Special Agent Mac McCormack but I thought some of the events at the beginning were very coincidental.<br />Overall I liked this book and was very pleased with the ending and the romance between Kimberly and Mac.  I just felt that there was a little something missing which I could not define that made me skim some of the text to get to the important parts, therefore I did not always find it as compelling and gripping a thriller as I'd hoped.  Highlights of the book were definitely Mac and Kimberly's dialogue and relationship and the scary and grisly nature of the crimes. Kimberly was a great female character - strong and driven to succeed with vulnerability hidden just under the surface.<br />JoAnne	2004-02-13
US	26310289	R1PMFSB0QJE2Q8	0671744216	986944205	The Secret	Books	5	6	6	N	N	The Secret + Ransom = One Very Happy Romance Reader	The Secret is one of Julie Garwood's fantastic novels featuring a tough, sexy Scottish Laird and a daring and sweet English Lady.  The Laird is Iain Maitland a rough and disciplined warrior who is used to being obeyed and has a temper like a thunderstorm.  The Lady is Judith Hampton, a woman who has spent her life moving back and forth to live with different relatives but remains hopeful and cheery.<br />The character's personalities are really good.  Iain is direct, forceful and protective, but as the book develops he really lets his guard down with Judith.  Judith is sassy and bold and forward thinking, she tries to make things better for the women in Iain's clan, and Iain, being a nice guy in a bad boy's body backs her up and helps her get her way.<br />Overall I loved this book and reread it a lot.  It's charming, funny and sentimental.  The ending is great and leads me on to giving the sequel a mention.  The sequel is called Ransom and is another one of my Five Star reviews and probably my favourite historical of them all.  Reading The Secret really pays off because you can then find out about what happens to Brodick (sigh - surely the sexiest and strong yet kind hero ever written) and Ramsey (not half bad either!) as well as catching up on dear Judith and dishy Iain.  In the next book two more heroines, the perceptive and smart Gillian and the nave but lovable Brigid are introduced.  So, what the hell are you waiting for?  Read these books!<br />JoAnne	2004-02-12
US	26310289	R29T7ZW5WI37Y8	0671737821	177598856	Honor's Splendour	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Just Wonderful	Honor's Splendour is an incredibly romantic and beautiful book.  The characters are great, the plot is strong with lots of twists and the love between the two leads is as genuine as it gets.<br />The characters are really good and well developed.  Duncan is the tall, masculine warrior with an arrogant streak as wide as his shoulders.  Madelyne is a woman who has been mistreated in the past by her brother but remains strong and kind.  The growing love between Duncan and Madelyne is really passionate, tender and romantic.  There are no pathetic `big misunderstandings', no ludicrous plot twists, or stereotypical characters.  <br />The beginning is one of the best in romantic fiction that I have ever read because Madelyne and Duncan meet on the forth page (I hate having to read about a third of the book before the hero and heroine are introduced) in a strong and memorable opening scene.  Madelyne does something utterly selfless and sweet which endears you to her for the rest of the book and Duncan ends the second chapter with one of those `you belong to me' phrases which would scare me half to death in real life but within the pages of a historical romance make me tingle inside and smile.<br />Near the end of the book there is a short period where Duncan and Madelyne are separated because she has to go to court for a while why he is away but this only lasts about 20 pages which is nothing out of 374 page paperback.  When they are reunited there is an unforgettable scene where Duncan shows Madelyne how much he loves her in a sweet, caring way.  Oh, I could go on and on about the best bits - little snatches of witty dialogue, places where Duncan loses his cool over Madelyne and says lovely things such as \\"You come before everyone and everything else\\" and so on!<br />Overall Honor's Splendour is well worth the money and I often reread it when I need a little boost.  Duncan is a wonderfully protective hero who would do anything for Madelyne and she is an endearing woman whohas remained charming despite being cruelly treated.  I enjoyed the fact that Duncan was the first to say `I love you' about three quarters of the way through which was a refreshing change and gave a chance for their love to bloom and flourish throughout the rest of the chapters.<br />Enjoy!<br />JoAnne	2004-02-12
US	26310289	RSNRNA8EW4BUF	0446612790	309666534	2nd Chance (Women's Murder Club)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A Solid Crime Novel  Great Characters	2nd Chance is the best James Patterson I've read in a long time.  I was pleasantly surprised, particularly after reading Four Blind Mice which I did not like at all (given a Two Star review).<br />The four female characters are interesting and varied.  Lindsay Boxer is a homicide detective and is the main character; the other three are Cindy (journalist), Claire (medical examiner) and Jill (Assistant DA).  I liked the fact that all the women seemed nice and friendly, it always annoys me when women in powerful jobs are portrayed as cold hearted b*****s.  Obviously it seems rather too convenient that these four should be best friends as well as top professionals in their respective areas but it made for interesting reading.<br />The plot is good and there are some generally creepy moments.  For example, when Lindsey goes into a maximum-security jail I could really feel her fear and trepidation.  The camaraderie of the women was done well and not put over-the-top, they all came across as being strong but not hardened.<br />Overall the book is very good with believable characters and a good balance between the murder cases and the characters personal relationships.  I'm looking forward to going back and reading 1st to Die and then 3rd Degree when it is released later this year.<br />JoAnne	2004-02-12
US	26310289	R18TWQRU7UNTBB	0553584510	943340840	The Survivors Club: A Thriller	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Yes! Yes! Yes! A Thriller To Be Savoured	The Survivor's Club has many of the usual ingredients of a thriller.<BR>A tough cop struggling to get back into work after the death of his wife and a terrible end to his last murder case...<BR>Three women who have been attacked but refuse to back down against their tormentor...<BR>An interesting twist at the end of chapter 1 that lures you into reading on...<BR>It is with great relief therefore that I inform you that there is nothing formulaic or banal about this cracking thriller!<br />The great strength of the book is in its fabulous characters.  Each of them have their strengths and weaknesses and are utterly believable.  The two that really stand out are Jillian and Roan.  Jillian Hayes is one of the three attacked women who form the `Survivor's Club' and use the media to help them spur the police on to apprehend the criminal.  Jillian was controlled and stubborn at times but also ruthlessly clever, quick witted and generous to a fault, as the book progressed I liked her more and more.  Roan Griffin was the Detective Sergeant assigned to head the murder investigation.  He was very tough and deeply affected by the loss of his wife , his best qualities were kindness, good old decency and a wicked sense of humour.  He was also extremely lovable and I developed a huge crush on him - oh, about two paragraphs after he first entered the story.  The secondary characters were also great and very vividly described.<br />The pages whiz by as the plot is filled with twists.  The narrative is woven with the funniest lines and witty dialogue which adds much needed moments of levity.  The ending is great - very suspenseful and everything nicely tied up as you turn the last page - it actually moved me to tears.<br />Overall I simply loved this book, it deserves its five stars and then some.  The smashing characters, plot and dialogue were wonderful and a credit to the author.  This is the first novel by Lisa Gardner I have ever read but it certainly won't be the last.  Don't miss out on this pacy thriller!          <br />JoAnne	2004-01-28
US	26310289	R2HOVZAY36MIJ0	0671042262	971468860	The Blue Nowhere: A Novel	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Wow!  Exciting Thriller With Twists A-Plenty	The Blue Nowhere is one of my favourite books.  It is thrilling all the way through and jam-packed with so many twists and turns and surprises that it leaves you stunned.  The general plot is that a computer hacker has developed a programme to read all the files on someones PC.  Therefore he can find out personal information about his target and then use this to plan an ingenious way to kill them by `social engineering'.  The police, with the help of a convicted computer hacker (a.k.a A Wizard), have to hunt the bad guy, and his accomplice Shawn down.<br />The characters are great because they are three dimensional and believable. The hero is Wyatt Gillette, a computer hacker who ended up in jail and lost his wife because of his obsession with computers and hacking (though never for his own gain, just because he is driven to crack the hardest codes for his own satisfaction).  Deaver makes us live and breath this guy's obsession, so much so that you end up feeling sorry for him although what he does with computers is, technically, a criminal offence.<br />Some of my favourite parts were where Deaver cut into the text with chat-room style sections where the police and Gillette tried to track down the bad guy, code name Phate.  I felt that I learned so much from this novel, especially about computer jargon and terminology which Deaver, miracle of miracles, managed to make as interesting as the plot twists (I wish he was running my computer classes).  I would recommend this to all lovers of thrillers.  I particually loved the terrifying showdown at the end which is not dissapointing at all.<br />Finally, there is a little glossary in the front of the book where all the computer terms are explained.  You can easily refer to this from time to time if you forget what a particular word means.  In other words, don't let the fact that this is a cyber-thriller put you off because Deaver makes the technology parts fun and explains all the jargon well.<br />Enjoy!<br />JoAnne	2004-01-27
US	26310289	R3FEMNTKQHC0QL	0553264613	559326423	Hot Ice	Books	3	0	0	N	N	A Good Romantic Comedy	Hot Ice is quite simply an entertaining, light, fun read.  The pace of the book is lightning fast as Whitney and Doug go on a treasure hunt whilst evading the clutches of the villain hilariously named `Dimitri'.  To be honest, the best part of this book is the many, many funny moments.  From the first few scenes when Doug jumps in Whitney's car and forces her to take part in a car chase to the times when Whitney carefully notes down in her notebook every cent Doug owes her the novel is full of laugh-out-loud moments.  Unfortunately the pace slows at the end a bit and the tension flags which led to me making this a three star review rather than a four star one.<br />Many reviewers have complained about the characters and I do agree that they weren't always the best.  Whitney often comes across as spoilt and stuck up, and dare I say it a little stereotypical with her references to `Daddy' and her constant sniping about the money Doug owed her despite the fact that she has millions in the bank.  However this woman has backbone and she was feisty and very funny.  Doug is hot but I admit that him being a thief put me off right away, in my opinion there is no way you can justify theft and burglary - it's just wrong.<br />Anyway, I would advise you to leave reality to one side when you pick up this book.  Just jump on and enjoy the hilarious and sexy banter between the couple, dazzling plot and villains so two-dimensional they are like something from a cartoon.  This just adds to the entertainment value.  Recommended for lovers of goofy romantic comedies.<br />JoAnne	2004-01-27
US	26310289	R2HNJAUJ00NCK	0375704965	483020941	A Judgement in Stone	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Creepy, Chilling Pyschological Thriller	My copy of A Judgement in Stone has the following simple quote from the Times on the front of it: \\"A classic\\".  I am pleased to be able to agree with this statement!  A Judgement in Stone is creepy, chilling and effortlessly scary.  <br />The fun with Rendell lies not in finding out `whodunit' but rather `why-they-dunit'. The first paragraph of this novel tells us that `Eunice Parchman killed the Coverdales because she could not read or write'.  In this line we have the victims, the murderer and the motive, but still the suspense and intrigue is not taken away from the two hundred or so following pages.  The plot is cunning and clever and driven by the personalities of the characters rather than any absurd coincidences or contrivances.  From the moment that Mrs and Mr Coverdale employ Eunice as their housekeeper there is something inevitable about their deaths as the Coverdales are bright people and were bound to find out eventually that Eunice was illiterate - this was something that she could not tolerate. <br />I think the reason why this book is so scary is because the murderer is not a knife-wielding serial killer with crazed eyes and mad laughter.  Instead the murderer is a plain, middle-aged woman rather like anyone who might walk past you in the street.  It is true to life because, of course, most of the criminals in our society look normal.  Read A Judgement In Stone if you like psychological thrillers which seem realistic and about `normal' everyday life.<br />JoAnne	2003-12-23
US	26310289	R28T0XANSID7BF	0091325404	819334435	A Sleeping Life (Wexford)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	A Humerous Wexford Mystery	Although first published in 1964 this book is still completely readable today.  A Sleeping Life is an Inspector Wexford mystery which deals with the investigation into the stabbing of a middle-aged woman whilst visiting her ill relative in Kingsmarkham.  Although he knows her name, the womans life away from Kingsmarkham remains a mystery which haunts Wexford.   There are many twists and turns as Wexford comes nearer to discovering what drove the woman to hide the truth about herself.  The conclusion, while perhaps not as shocking today as it was then, is nicely done.<br />As usual Rendell has created a diverse range of interesting, and in some cases psychologically-flawed, characters.  The scenes I enjoyed most were those with Sylvia, Wexford's daughter.  She has left her husband after becoming interested in Woman's Lib, and has moved back in with her parents, Wexford and Dora.  I was particularly amused by a piece of dialogue where Sylvia cries:<BR>    \\"By God, my life is more his than it is mine!\\"<BR>(Referring to her husband, Neil).  It really does point out how gender roles in the past have stiffled women - thank goodness that times have changed!  However, I liked the way that Rendell also gave Neil's point of view about his wife's views so it wasn't one sided.  <br />Overall A Sleeping Life is great.  There are plenty of opportunities for Wexford to use his dry, clever wit. The plot is solid and there is a good twist at the end.  The sub-plot is entertaining and the characters are unusual.<br />JoAnne	2003-12-19
US	26310289	R31O03I5NOM88N	0446531588	703746704	Derailed	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Clever and Suspenseful Thriller - Highly Recommended	How can I convince you that I enjoyed Derailed and that you should read it too?  Well, maybe admitting that I was up until 1am this morning, frantically turning pages and determined to finish it will help.<br />Derailed is a clever, intricate and believable thriller about what happens when a man's life careens hopelessly out of control after he makes one big mistake - having an affair.  There are twists and turns throughout the book as the man, Charles Schine, desperately tries to keep the truth from his wife, be strong for their critically ill daughter and save his ailing career.  By the way, he is also dealing with blackmail threats and serious intimidation at the same time.   And that's only half the story!<br />The main plus points for Derailed I think are it's fantastic first person narrative which is at times shocking and at others charmingly funny and the great dialogue between the characters which is punchy and realistic.  The tension rises constantly as one disastrous event leads to another, and the pages absolutely fly by.  My only complaint is that I thought some of the events that happened at the end of the novel were a little bit far-fetched and coincidental.  <br />Overall I would recommend Derailed to all people who love thrillers and enjoy the high tension of escalating twists.  Enjoy!<br />JoAnne	2003-11-03
US	26310289	R3IZ5S5ILVUP4C	0373484429	666170685	Reflections And Dreams	Books	3	1	1	N	N	A Light Hearted Quick Read	Reflections and Dreams is made up of two novels written by Nora Roberts in 1983.  It is amazing to read these books to see how well they stand up against the test of time.  Many other romance books from the same period are now unreadable due to their outdated plots and hideously overbearing male `heroes' and pathetic heroines.  `Reflections' and `Dance of Dreams' in contrast both have strong female characters and likeable and sexy male heroes. <br />Reflections is the story of Lindsey Dunne and Seth Bannion.  Lindsey and Seth were interesting characters though not overly memorable.  A few parts of the novel were outdated such as their clich first meeting.  Also Seth makes a quite unreasonable demand that Lindsey doesn't do one last ballet performance, which I found hard to justify.  Certainly I didn't think it was something one of Nora Robert's fabulous modern heroes would say.<br />Dance of Dreams is the better book due to the characters of Nikolai Davidov and Ruth Bannion, Seth's niece from the first book.  Nikolai Davidov was easily the most entertaining and original of all four of the lead characters, although sometimes he could be sharp and snappish for no apparent reason.  Ruth's ex-boyfriend Donald seemed to have no other purpose than to provide conflict between Ruth and Nikolai - he wasn't even likeable.<br />Overall Reflections and Dreams is a good book which you can read quickly.  It is also light hearted and has fairly strong characters.  The details about the world of ballet (about which I know nothing) were interesting.    <BR>  <BR>JoAnne	2003-11-01
US	26310289	R1OF7O1CWLFJR1	0515124893	581812266	Homeport	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Exciting Romantic Novel - Highly Recommended	Homeport is an exciting, intriguing romantic thriller that whets your appetite from page one.  In this book Nora Robert's strengths are showcased really well - description that sets the scene and atmosphere, excellent characters and impeccable research.<br />The heroine of the book Miranda was very likeable.  She was practical and intelligent and was a formiddable woman.  I suppose she could be categorised as an `ice maiden' but she also had a soft side and was only aloof due to neglect from her parents.  The hero Ryan Boldari was as hot as his name sounds!  He was witty, charming, and the perfect man to bring Miranda out of her shell.  The only thing I didn't like about him was the fact that he was a thief - not because he needs the money<BR>anymore, or is doing it for a noble cause, simply because he likes to steal and is good at it.  At one point his mother even says that stealing is his god-given gift and it would be a sin not to use it! What ridiculous logic!  Also, at one point it was<BR>mentioned about how he burgled houses in the past and this made me shudder as there are few worse things than coming home to find your house ransacked. Therefore I try to blank this out of my mind when I read this book so that I still like Ryan.<br />The best parts of the book are when the couple travel to Florence and the hilarious and snappy dialogue that they share in between.  The murder mystery is also good and there is a surprise at the end that I liked.  Overall Homeport is one of my favourite Nora Robert's books and one I like to re-read.  It goes without saying that the ending was romantic, but this one was very special indeed.<br />JoAnne	2003-10-02
US	26310289	R1XERVCSOKERCK	0515130389	573580919	Carolina Moon	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Sultry Romantic Suspence is Something Special	Carolina Moon is a sultry, exciting murder mystery that is also loaded with romance.  The lead characters are Tory and Cade, and they remain one of my favourite `couples' because their personalities are built up so well and they have a fantastic spark between them.<br />Tory Bodeen was the victim of violence as a girl but now she has returned to her childhood home to confront the past.  I liked her because she was a strong woman who wasn't brash or rude, instead she was quiet and vulnerable but with a core of iron.  The fact that she was gifted with physic powers was an interesting subplot that was handled well.<br />Cade Lavelle is the brother of Tory's best friend who was murdered when they were little.  His unique point is that although he has inherited farmland from his father he has gone out on a limb to practise organic farming despite the ridicule he faces from neighbours and workers alike.  The chemistry is there between the two from the moment they meet up again and only builds as the novel progresses.  I liked that Cade was protective of Tory but not in an overbearing way.  He really respects her and doesn't react badly to her `powers' such as having visions and reliving past events which another man in her past did.  He was thoughtful and caring in a manly way.<br />The only complaints I have were that sometimes the story meandered with aimless points of view of seemingly minor characters which didn't have a lot to do with the main story or plot development.  During these bits I just thought `Let's get back to the real action with Tory and Cade'.  Secondly Faith, Cade's sister, was not at all likeable in the beginning and was very rude and bitter.  Even considering her cold upbringing I thought she was overly harsh, especially to the man who clearly loved her, Wade.  However the romance between her and Wade was done well and by the end of the book I was pleased that they got together and felt glad that she had turned into a better person.<br />Overall Carolina Moon is a fun, gripping read with original characters, strong dialogue and a smart murder mystery.  I would recommend this to people who want to read a really good example of romantic suspense.<br />JoAnne	2003-10-02
US	26310289	R3VJ3PJU4HVDYZ	0345458915	730478278	The Sinner	Books	3	2	5	N	N	Good Plot and Characters but Something Missing	The Sinner is a decent medical thriller which I enjoyed, although not as much as the past two books by the author, The Surgeon and The Apprentice.  The strength for me was the plot which had me guessing and the style of writing which was lyrical and descriptive.<br />The characters Jane Rizzoli (a detective) and Dr.Maura Isles (a forensic examiner) were interesting but it seemed strange that they both were successful professionally and yet hopeless with men and relationships in general.  The book was written in a<BR>way that made it seem as though only cold, extremely tough and blunt women can succeed in a professional arena.  In my review for the Surgeon I said that I liked reading about a controversial, edgy female (Jane Rizzoli) and that still stands.  However, I found some of Rizzoli's needless rudeness and nastiness towards anyone who shows her concern to be wearying this time around because it was so unnecessary in many cases and she came across as petty rather than angry about<br />sexism in the police force.  <br />I also found the dealing of the Catholic Church to be very heavy handed and biased.  All the nuns were described many times as old and detached - not a single one of them was given any personality, depth or kindness.  The only young nun was written about in an equally negative way.  Secondly, both Maura and Jane were lapsed Catholics and were highly cynical about religion of any kind.  Of course, this is fine, but there was simply no balance to the book as no religious characters were allowed to speak.  In the end I found the constant sniping about faith and belief to be jarring.<br />Overall the Sinner is a competent thriller and the medical details were excellent.  There were surprises and shocks along the way and the characters were believable if not always likeable.<br />JoAnne	2003-10-01
US	26310289	RPMYSROT2AQ7C	1903845432	659540769	The Diet Bible: Use it to Lose It!	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Crammed With Advice and Knowledge	The Diet Bible is an interesting book filled with advice and knowledge.  I enjoyed reading it and found that many of the features were useful such as calculating your own BMI.  However, there is a limit as to how useful I think this book is since you could get a lot of information from the Internet such as the health benefits and disadvantages of different types of diets, such as the Atkins or Fat Zone.  <br />Just about every question about diets that you have will be answered in this book but not always in great detail.  This is a good reference book for people who haven't `read everything about diets already' and the index at the back means it is easy to find different sections and features.  On the other hand if you already know about calculating daily calorie intakes,<BR>exercise and nutrition then there is not that much new information here although it is packaged and presented in a nice, clear way.<br />JoAnne	2003-09-29
US	26310289	R3ASYJMJWS2804	0333687485	494892407	Bird (Macmillan crime)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Unusual Chiller With a Twist in the Tale	Bird is an understated, exciting chiller which captivated me the whole way through until the clever ending.  Jane Adams' writing style is deceptively simple but she creates an intriguing atmosphere that draws the reader in.  There are interesting flashbacks every few pages as the past is key in uncovering the present day mystery and these add to the tension.<br />The characters are very believable.  Marcie is the lead, a young married woman who has become estranged from her family after they treated her badly.  Now she has returned to stay with them for a while as her grandfather Jack is dying.  However Jack keeps seeing the ghost of a woman called Rebekkah and eventually this ghost begins to haunt the entire family.  Marcie begins to research into who this woman was and she comes to some pretty disturbing conclusions.  The ending is surprising and wonderful with some deep psychological insight.<br />Overall Bird is a fast paced psychological chiller that I would recommend to anyone who likes thrillers, regardless of whether they enjoy a supernatural element or not.  The English setting and characters are realistic, especially the cold and stilted relationship between Marcie and her grandmother and aunt Alice.  The ending is memorable, making you question the motives of some of the characters.<br />JoAnne	2003-09-29
US	26310289	R37J7H62RSUIF8	0743222008	177045780	The Vanished Man: A Lincoln Rhyme Novel (Deaver, Jeffery)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Entertaining and Thrilling Crime Novel	Of all the series characters I have read so far I wait for none so eagerly as I do Lincoln Rhyme and Amelia Sachs.  They are well developed, likeable and utterly original.  Lincoln is all bluster and frustration that he is only able to move his head and one finger, and Amelia Sachs is a strong and powerful woman who will try almost anything to solve a crime.<br />In this story the theme is magic - the people who practise it for both good and evil and how it can be manipulated in many ways.  A new character is introduced for this part of the series - a young magicians apprentice called Kara.  I really liked this woman and empathised with her.<br />As usual with Jeffrey Deaver books the plot twists like a snake and keeps you on your toes.  The murderer here is an elusive and creative `magician' who sees the murders he commits as performances to his `revered audience'.  The characters also face new challenges.  Amelia, for example, is trying to become a Sergeant and this provides Deaver with the chance to write something very thought provoking and realistic about the way in which bureaucracy is often unfair and biased.<br />Overall The Vanished Man is a great new instalment in the ongoing Rhyme/Sachs series.  I urge anyone who loves crime and is looking for something new and fresh to start with The Bone Collector and work their way through the series.  I wait eagerly for the next book and any stand alone fiction Deaver produces.<br />JoAnne	2003-09-23
US	26310289	R1HXZX0HIUF2WS	0345426266	955062554	The Analyst	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A Unique Experience Filled with Tension and Twists	The Analyst is totally different than just about every other book I have read.  Yes, I've read plenty of thrillers before - some good, some bad - but The Analyst is an absolute one-off.<br />Usually I don't mention the specifics of the plot in the review, normally the synopsis Amazon provides is good enough, but in this case it takes some explaining.  Dr. Frederick Sparks is a psychoanalyst, a man who examines the problems of others and offers them treatment.  One day before his August holiday he receives a strange letter signed by Rumplestiltskin, and boy, then his troubles really begin.  The first half of the book is a twisting path of lies, deception and strange happenings as Dr. Sparks struggles to find out who is his tormentor while his life gradually falls apart in spectacular and terrifying fashion.  This part of the book whizzes by and is amazingly tense and suspenseful.  I loved this part as it made my stomach turn to knots and my muscles tighten up - a sure sign that the thriller is doing its job!  I won't give anything away, but the second half of the book is more slowly paced as something happens to change Dr. Sparks fortunes, but it is still fantastic and intriguing.  I was with Dr. Sparks the whole way, urging him on and willing him to succeed.<br />Overall The Analyst is an unusual and beautiful thriller which deals with an unlikely sounding plot and makes it seem chillingly real.  Dr. Sparks is immensely likeable and well developed and we come to sympathise as well as respect him.  Finally, I must mention the excellent writing style, which is very descriptive and original, adding menace to the plot.  I read the book as quickly as I could, devouring the pages.  I think you will too.<br />JoAnne	2003-09-23
US	26310289	R2J2RW5L5UV3UG	0345426800	469724742	A Perfect Crime	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A Novel of Coincidences and Twists	A Perfect Crime is a great psychological thriller that races away at the beginning but becomes slightly derailed at the end.  The basic premise is: Francie and Ned are having an affair.  Francie's vile husband Roger finds out about it and plans to kill them both.  However, the twists and coincidences that occur are startling and exciting and make this thriller into something very original.<br />I especially loved the backdrop to this thriller.  The weather is always cold and icy and the house where Francie and Ned meet in centred on an island and can only be reached by rowing across in a small boat.  These elements provide great atmosphere and originality.  Roger is diabolical and I enjoyed the contrast between how he viewed himself (clever, self assured) and the way others saw him (strange nutcase!).<br />Overall A Perfect Crime is a competent thriller with short sections and snappy dialogue.  The characters are well developed although certain aspects seemed unlikely such as Roger thinking he'd be able to control Whitey Truax so perfectly that he could commit the perfect murder where he couldn't be implicated.  However, this book is filled with suspense and surprises, so you'd be wise to give it a go.  I'm glad I did.  <br />JoAnne	2003-09-23
US	26310289	RJA2HHAPCWBRC	0446607207	984529165	Tell Me Your Dreams	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Good Plot, Soap Opera Style Novel	The simplicity and style of Sidney Sheldon works well in this book that deals with three very different women and how they are involved in a spate of killings.  It is a quick read as the paragraphs are short and to the point.    Where I think the book is let down is in the characters who are sometimes simplified and are never fully developed very well as individuals because of the short paragraphs.  The characters often resemble stereotypes with Ashleigh being weak and miserable, Toni feisty and rude, and Allette shy and blushing.  However, this is still an absorbing read with a smart twist in the ending - it's worth reading for that alone.    As an Englishwoman I found the British woman's use of language jarring.  She says things like `Buzz off' and `Ta ta' and drinks Pimms.  When it was stated that she has a delightful British accent I choked up.  Since when did a British person say `Ta ta' instead of `Bye'?  To be honest it seemed to me to be an unfortunate although vaguely amusing stereotype that was over repeated.      Overall Tell Me Your Dreams is a good book.  It can be read quickly and is entertaining.  It has a soap opera style to it with all the main characters being young and beautiful and the dialogue certainly sounds a bit staged.  This book is saved from being too flouncy and light-hearted by a super ending and a more complex second half when there are a few surprising revelations and new characters.      Ta ta!    JoAnne	2003-09-23
US	26310289	R26HVOGKGX789L	0753102889	189441024	The Little House (Isis)	Books	5	33	33	N	N	Perfect Example Of A Top Notch Psychological Thriller	The Little House is a remarkable gem of a psychological thriller.  It makes even the most normal, everyday events seem sinister and riveting.<br />The plot focuses on Ruth who is talked into starting a family by her husband and living down the road from his upper class parents in the country.  Then the nightmare unfolds.  The book is a masterpiece of claustrophobia as Ruth's in-laws intrude more and more into her life.  All throughout the book I felt tense and unsettled - just as I love to be when I am reading a thriller.  I could absolutely empathise with Ruth and as her situation got worse and worse I was routing for her all the way.<br />Ruth is a delightful, yet in some ways tragic character.  She is a successful journalist and yet her past has meant that she is needy and desperately seeking love.  She thinks she has found a family which she can belong to at long last in her in-laws but what she fails to realise is that they want to control her.  The mother in-law, father in-law, and Ruth's husband Patrick are chillingly plausible and well developed.  The beauty in this novel is that unlike in many other psychological thriller's these three characters are not evil, they truly believe they are doing the best for Ruth and themselves - even as they push her further and further towards the limits of her own sanity.      <br />Overall The Little House is a fantastic study of relationships between a woman and her in-laws and how the ordinary things can lead someone to madness, and to do the most unspeakable things.  The Little House's packs a hard, chilling punch, especially as the ending is so unexpected and compelling.  I would recommend this book unreservedly.<br />JoAnne	2003-09-23
US	26310289	R3VU4N2YKHLC82	0671003364	792256877	Ransom	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Scottish Laird Meets English Lady	Ransom is a beautiful, epic story about a young English woman's quest to save her uncle, and at the same time three Scottish Laird's journey to take revenge on an evil Baron who has threatened them all.  Ransom is also about the developing relationships between Gillian and Brodick Buchanan and Brigid and Ramsey Sinclair.  <br />Some reviewers have mentioned that they felt Ramsey and Brigid deserved more time or that they should have had a separate book.  They have also commented that Brodick and Gillian were not so interesting.  I don't normally comment on other reviews - we all have a right to our opinions after all! - but in this case I just had to respond, as I couldn't disagree more.<br />Gillian and Brodick are a wonderful couple; Gillian is clever and smart as well as beautiful and brave, and Brodick is confident, protective, sexy and brave too.  What I loved was that he always had respect for Gillian's abilities unlike many alpha heroes, even when Gillian doubted herself he always reassured her.  He even defended her skills to other people rather than belittling her or treating her badly as heroes in other historicals are prone to do with alarming regularity.<br />Gillian and Brodick in my opinion deserve the extra time - although Brigid and Ramsey were great too - because they were much less conventional than the other couple, which made their story even more engrossing.  Their dialogue was electric and it was clear to me that they belonged together - no one else would have been quite right for them.  <br />Overall Ransom was fantastic and included all the elements I love in a romantic novel.  I would caution readers that Brodick and Gillian don't meet up right away, I think it's a hundred pages in, but as the book is 450 pages+ this doesn't matter as the two are together almost continuously after that point so there is plenty of time for their relationship to develop.  Read this if you like Scottish Laird meets English Lady stories that are charming, funnyand above all romantic.  I have a feeling this novel is just what you're looking for.<br />JoAnne	2003-09-23
US	26310289	R2Z7ULW78ULWX7	0345447840	383802287	The Surgeon (with Bonus Content): A Rizzoli & Isles Novel	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Exciting Medical Thriller : Suspence and Romance Included	The Surgeon introduces us to Jane Rizzoli and Thomas Moore, detectives investigating the brutal murder of a woman which links to other murders in the past - and the survivor of one of the attacks, Dr Catherine Cordell, a surgeon.<br />The characters are strong and interesting.  The growing romantic relationship between Thomas Moore and Catherine Cordell may be predictable, but is believable.  However the character that really stood out for me was Jane Rizzoli.  This is a woman who is BITTER; about her family relationships (her mum and dad are much more interested in her brothers), about her status as the much put upon only female homicide detective for Boston PD, and about Thomas Moore's attraction to Cordell which she deems as inappropriate and unfair.  In many ways Jane and Catherine are polar opposites, Catherine is cold, icy and attractive, whilst Jane is fiery and blunt, and described as intense rather than pretty.  I loved her character although she was often rude and belligerent, simply because she was so intriguing.  It made a nice change for a woman to take centre stage in fiction who is complex, not classically beautiful, and rather controversial.<br />Overall The Surgeon accomplishes much.  It is a smooth, thoughtful novel and I much admire Tess Gerritsen's stylish writing.  The plot is clever and pacy, and the insights into the murderer are chilling.  The only complaint I have is when Catherine Cordell and Thomas Moore fall out for a long time when a simple phone call would have set everything straight, however, I suppose the nature of fiction requires some conflict to drive the plot along so I can forgive that!  I'd recommend this to people who like competent thrillers, absorbing characters and are also looking for a bit of romance thrown into the mix as well.<br />JoAnne	2003-09-23
US	26310289	R3UL3BD6FQI0XA	0312951426	621198908	The Ice House: A Novel	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Shocking and Fascinating Crime Novel	THE ICE HOUSE is a sharp and compelling crime novel, and, in my opinion, Minette Walters best.  I first read this several years ago but have since re-read it many times and always enjoy the sharp writing and twisted plot.<br />The characters are a joy to read about.  They are all developed well and interesting, but by far the two that stand out the most are Anne Cattrell and Andy McLoughlin.  She is a darkly humorous and sarcastic journalist and he is a morose and troubled police detective.  The dialogue they share is electric, and tempered with wit and anger, but sometimes they can be surprising understanding towards each other.  They are more alike than they realise!<br />The plot is remarkable and surprising.  There are plenty of twists and you are kept guessing as to 'who done it' all the way through - we are not even sure if the 'good guys', in this case the three women accused of murder, are really as innocent as we'd like to believe.  The final scenes are tense and exciting and deliver all the first three quarters of the book promise.<br />Overall The Ice House is a spectacularly thrilling story with exciting characters and a wonderful ending.  I believe that The Ice House is essential reading for everyone who loves crime novels.<br />JoAnne	2003-09-22
