US	26619553	R3NTV2WCGP3IP0	0553280368	599528019	C Is for Corpse (Kinsey Millhone Mysteries)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Quick and enjoyable	Kinsey's back. And this time, she's been hired by a man who suspects he's been the victim of an attempted murder. When he ends up dead just a few days later, Kinsey's convinced he was right. <br /> <br />Bobby Callahan is recovering from injuries sustained during a car accident that killed his best friend. When he approaches Kinsey with his theory behind the attempted murder, she's a little skeptical, but decides to do some investigating anyway - because, hey, she likes him. He seems like a good kid, even though his folks are the epitome of a troubled blended family. With his memory riddled with holes and missing pieces, discovering who might want him dead - and most importantly, why - is no easy task.  <br /> <br />The third in the ever-popular Kinsey Milhone series, C IS FOR CORPSE also offers a humorous subplot involving Kinsey's landlord, Henry. It seems Henry's been having a little too much fun with a new girlfriend, and Kinsey smells trouble from a mile away. <br /> <br />The plot is predictable, and follows the well-outlined pace of the previous books. Kinsey takes a case, she discovers clues, and it all leads down the same path, to a heart-wrenching, hair-raising encounter with the bad guy.  <br /> <br />Grafton's talent lies in her ability to capture Kinsey's voice. As always, Kinsey is an endearing character; someone readers can relate to and root for. A quick, enjoyable read.	2004-11-21
US	26619553	R1RUOLI8KOL1DB	0373802080	853679758	On Fire's Wings (Final Dance, Book 1)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Beautifully crafted fantasy	Kevla Bai-Sha was born with no status in Arukan's society. Without a father whose name she could take, she was doomed to remain a \\"Bai-Sha\\", selling her mother's wares as a \\"halaan\\". But when Khashim Tahmu-kha-Rakyn, of the Clan of Four Waters, takes her as a servant for his great house, Kevla's lot in life begins to improve. That is, at least, until Tahmu's wife realizes that Kevla is in fact his daughter. <br /> <br />Jashemi-kha-Tahmu, Kevla's stepbrother, recognizes her instantly as his father's daughter. He vows that although he can't recognize her as his sister publicly, he'll get to know her privately. Thus begins a forbidden relationship between the two, one that blossoms from affection to a deeply-seeded and unbreakable bond over the years.  <br /> <br />But there's more to Kevla and Jashemi than meets the eye. They both have powerful, frightening dreams - dreams that would get them both burned for being possessed by demons if anyone in Arukan ever found out about them. With only each other to turn to, Jashemi and Kevla must uncover the secret to their disturbing dreams, before it's too late. <br /> <br />Ms. Golden has written a breathtaking tale of good vs. evil, treachery and betrayal, and the overwhelming power of love in the first installment in THE FINAL DANCE series. She writes magically - with an extreme talent for description and characterization, and dialogue that sounds true in every instance. Her voice is genuine and unique, never faltering, matching the tone of the novel perfectly at every turn. <br /> <br />Kevla's growth, her coming-of-age and acceptance of who she truly is are vital to the story, and beautifully handled by Ms. Golden. If you're looking for a captivating, intriguing fantasy novel, look no further than ON FIRE'S WINGS. The second novel in the series is scheduled for release in 2005.	2004-10-26
US	26619553	R1FTVWVUU9SUQ0	0373250274	46887746	See Jane Date	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Not your typical chick-lit	Jane Gregg works as an assistant editor at Posh, a major publishing company now benefiting from the popularity surge of intimate, explicit biographies. Her newest assignment can make her career, if she can survive it. She's been assigned to edit the memoirs of Natasha Nutley, a woman riding her 15-minutes of fame after riding (literally) a famous celebrity. Now, she's telling all to Jane, who doesn't want to hear most of it. `The Gnat', as Jane fondly calls her, stole her boyfriend back in high school, something Jane has never really been able to get over. <br /> <br />To make matters worse, Jane has two months to find a boyfriend to bring to her aggravating cousin's wedding. At the prodding of her two best friends, Jane agrees to go on a series of blind dates, meeting one `Mr. Wrong' after another. With a deadline rapidly approaching and a very busy calendar, Jane's on a mission to find Mr. Right. <br /> <br />I'm the first to admit that I'm normally not a fan of chick-lit. Most novels I've read in the genre have been shallow, superficial, and poorly written. Imagine my surprise, then, when SEE JANE DATE not only captivated me, but quickly became the kind of book I couldn't put down. I'd grab it out of my purse while standing in line at the grocery store, eating lunch and even - eek! - at traffic lights.  <br /> <br />Incredibly well written, with three-dimensional characters that make the romp through New York City engaging and fun, SEE JANE DATE is a must-read for any woman who's ever been single.	2004-10-20
US	26619553	RIWWCFL5BL3T1	0804119775	612131783	Midnight Rain	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Light romantic suspense	Johnathan Brighton is badly in need of a vacation, but as he's driving through the lonely desert highway into Mexico, he's pulled over, shot on the side of the road, and left for dead. Six months later, he's lost part of his memory, and the partial use of his right hand. For a workaholic CEO, this isn't just an inconvenience, it's a disaster. <br /> <br />Katie Cavenaugh is an undercover FBI agent struggling to maintain her reputation after an impulsive decision has her boss questioning her abilities. The assignment is simple: pose as John's physiotherapist, find evidence implicating him in a murder committed just before he left for Mexico, and get out. But things get complicated when Katie realizes there's more to John than meets the eye. Can she reign in her attraction to him and focus on getting the job done? <br /> <br />I loved Dee Davis's DANCING IN THE DARK, but MIDNIGHT RAIN didn't quite live up to my expectations. For a romantic suspense book, I had the real culprit figured out from page one. That knowledge definitely made it hard to pick up the book again after putting it down, and it made the story drag in parts.  <br /> <br />I found the characters to be three-dimensional and well written, however, with John leading the pack. It was refreshing to read a romance novel where the hero is less-than-perfect physically. This imperfection doesn't make him any less sexy or charming, however. His need for Katie, his reluctance to trust her once he finds out her true identity, and his willingness to fight and discover the truth had me rooting for him throughout the length of the novel.  <br /> <br />Overall, a light romantic suspense novel to curl up with at night, and one that won't make you want to sleep with the lights on. For a real suspense thriller, and a better indication of Ms. Davis's talents, pick up DANCING IN THE DARK. You won't be disappointed.	2004-10-02
US	26619553	R2FPRXVOKMUOMC	0373791119	124766216	Wicked Games: WWW.Girl-Gear	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Great characters -- slow plot	Kinsey Gray and Doug Story have a history - but it's not until Doug announces his imminent move that Kinsey realizes how deep her feelings run for him. Soon, she finds herself using every trick in the book (and in the bedroom) to convince him to stay. But how can she do that when he hasn't even admitted to himself why he's leaving? <br /> <br />Alison Kent has written a contemporary romance with loveable, realistic, sympathetic characters. Both Doug and Kinsey have flaws, hang-ups, and unique personality traits. The secondary characters were also well-developed enough to make me want to read more about them. As this was my first foray into girl-gear territory, I'm going to keep an eye out for the other books in the series. <br /> <br />My only complaint has to do with pacing - I found the novel a little bland and slow in parts. There were chapters upon chapters where the hero and heroine did nothing but sit around and talk (either to each other, or to others). Eventually, I was dying for something more to happen, for a plot twist that never materialized. Still, the love scenes were scorching hot - really sizzling, top-notch stuff, and Ms. Kent writes perfectly - with just enough hints of description to bring the setting to life without bogging down the story with meaningless details. If only the plot had been a little more exciting, WICKED GAMES might have ended up on my keeper shelf.	2004-09-02
US	26619553	R3QV88EI159JDU	0451458222	984290410	1: Summer Tree, The: Book One of the Fionavar Tapestry	Books	2	7	13	N	N	Only for die-hard Tolkien fans	Guy Gavriel Kay is one of my favorite authors and as such, I had very high hopes for this novel. Unfortunately, his Tolkien influence not only shows here, but it overwhelms the book entirely. <br /> <br />The plot is relatively straight-forward: five young people are led through a portal into another world by a mysterious mage and his sidekick. They're told they're only there for a celebration, a few days at the most, and then they can go home. But things go wrong from the very beginning. One of them doesn't make it through with the other four, and the plot just gets jumbled from there.  <br /> <br />It sounds like standard fantasy fodder - and it should be. Unfortunately, the language is almost archaic, and the dialogue stilted. Sometimes entire pages are devoted to scenery. It may have worked well when Tolkien wrote, but in today's society, I expect a fast-paced story, full of intrigue and adventure.  <br /> <br />At times, Kay offers glimpses of his talent by creating a character so wonderful (Sharra), and a culture so rich (the Dalrei), it takes my breath away. Unfortunately, those glimpses were few and far between. The main characters are bland and uninteresting, with the possible exception of Kim Ford, and they're all much too quick to accept this strange new world they've been thrown in (if a mage came up to you and plunged you through a portal, wouldn't you be a little more resistant to that kind of change?). <br /> <br />If you're a Tolkien fan, chances are good you'll enjoy THE SUMMER TREE. For the rest of us, this book is best left on the shelves.	2004-08-31
US	26619553	R1XUK30Y8RUOPG	0743443942	942291872	The Sparkling One (The Marcelli Sisters of Pleasure Road, Book 1)	Books	3	9	10	N	N	Fails to deliver	Katie Marcelli has just launched her own party-planning business, and she knows that landing a big contract would put Organization Central on the map. When that contract practically lands in her lap, Katie's stunned and excited. Then she meets Zach Stryker, one of the partners of the large firm footing the bill for her organizational efforts, and she realizes the real reason she was chosen for the job: Zach hopes to persuade her (by any means necessary) that Katie's sister's upcoming marriage to Zach's son is a very bad idea. <br /> <br />Zach's the only one who believes that two 18-year olds shouldn't wed. The Marcelli clan embraces the idea, as does Katie herself, not to mention the recently engaged couple. Can Zach persuade Katie that these two young people shouldn't be allowed to make a mistake that will ruin their lives forever? And can he keep his hands off Katie in the process? <br /> <br />THE SPARKLING ONE has a solid plot which stems from enough internal and external conflict to keep it moving at a rapid pace. Unfortunately, the Marcelli family is so overwhelming and annoying, it's hard to really feel for any of the characters. With the exception of Zach, who is arrogant and cynical, but also charming, sexy, and kind, the rest of the characters have few redeeming qualities.  <br /> <br />Ms. Mallery's intent must have been the thorough depiction of an Italian-American family, but the characterization falls short of eliciting a humorous reaction. Instead, the boisterous grandmothers, domineering grandfather, and off-kilter sisters come off as stereotypical and infinitely unlovable. I kept expecting Katie to come to her senses and finally run off for good. I also couldn't understand the reason for Zach's sudden acceptance of the family.  <br /> <br />Overall, a sharply plotted tale that fails to deliver due to shoddy characterization.	2004-08-16
US	26619553	R3APB9DBC80YNF	0671569031	567915716	Amaryllis	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Phenomenal Futuristic Romance	In the not-too-distant future, Amaryllis Lark is a prism, a psychic detective, in the city of New Seattle. A prism is crucial to the well-being of the colonists of St. Helen's, as they developed into two major groups: either talents, or prisms. Talents have a number of psychic abilities, ranging from the mundane (horticultural talents) to the mysterious (illusionist talents). Prisms, on the other hand, help a talent focus his energy in order to be able to use his psychic abilities. Without a prism, a talent wouldn't be able to use his ability for longer than a few seconds at most. <br /> <br />Lucas Trent, also known as The Iceman, hires Amaryllis for her psychic talents. He knows that a close business associate has been stealing and selling corporate secrets, and he thinks there might be more going on than simple greed. When Lucas and Amaryllis join forces, their psychic connection and attraction to each other sizzles. Soon, they're thrust in the middle of a murder investigation, and a love affair neither can resist. <br /> <br />Jayne Castle, who writes contemporary romances under the name Jayne Ann Krentz, and historical romances under the name Amada Quick, has written a phenomenal tale in AMARYLLIS. The romance is strong, and holds its own in a complex and interesting plot. The hint of mystery also unravels nicely throughout the book and keeps the plot moving at a rapid pace. The characters are extremely well-developed and intriguing. Her writing style is outstanding as well, as she manages to add just the right touch of detail to make the setting come alive without overwhelming the story or the characters.  <br /> <br />If you're looking for a fun, captivating romance, look no further than AMARYLLIS.	2004-08-12
US	26619553	R10PXS9L6JCQE3	0345423615	279350331	The Silver Wolf (Legends of the Wolves, Book 1)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Lush epic werewolf fantasy	During Charlamagne's rule, the once powerful and gorgeous city of Rome is now in ruin. Corruption and political ambition drive its citizens above all else. Regeane is a distant kin to Charlemagne, but that's the least of her incredible assets. She's also inherited her father's ability to shape shift into a wolf.  <br /> <br />But her talents and abilities are exploited at every turn by just about everyone she encounters. Her cousin and uncle have kept her captive and living in poverty for years. Now that she's reached the proper age, they have decided to marry her off to a Barbarian she's never even laid eyes on. Their plan is to eventually dispose of the man, and live off his wealth. Can Regeane take control of her destiny and survive in such a ruthless world? With the wolf urging her own, the woman embarks upon the most dangerous fight of all: the fight for freedom, and survival. <br /> <br />Ms. Borchardt has written a superb werewolf novel in THE SILVER WOLF. The writing is lyrical and engrossing, and she has a wonderful knack for depicting a lush and imaginative fantasy world. Though the pacing may lag a little at times, the superb writing style more than makes up for it. The characters are beautifully developed, and each is individually intriguing and mysterious. The rich background she's developed for all her characters truly makes this story come to life.  <br /> <br />If you're looking for a fabulous blend of intrigue, mystery, adventure, sprinkled with just the right touch of romance, don't hesitate to pick up THE SILVER WOLF.	2004-08-11
US	26619553	RL153OR257X8E	0804119783	415821044	Dancing in the Dark	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Thrilling and Romantic	Sara Martin has been through a lot. Two years ago, her husband and son were both killed in a car accident, and Sara's still mourning their loss. Her nights are troubled by disturbing dreams and crank calls, the latter of which sends her to detective Eric D'Angelo for help. His sexy looks and protective demeanor penetrate Sarah's defenses, but is she ready to loose her heart again? <br /> <br />To make things worse, there's a killer on the loose, and Detective D'Angelo has been assigned to the case. Not only are the murders as grizzly as they come, but they're getting closer and closer to home, and to Sara. Is she the target of a madman? And can she trust her life, and her heart, to Eric? <br /> <br />If you're looking for a fast read, with enthralling, well developed characters, look no further than DANCING IN THE DARK. The suspense thread is wonderfully woven into the story, and it kept me guessing right until the very end. Every time I thought I had the killer figured out, Ms. Davis would expertly throw in another plot twist or minor detail to throw me off track.  <br /> <br />The chemistry between Sara and Eric leaps off the pages. They're fantastic together, in part due to wonderful dialogue and great descriptions by Ms. Davis. The romance is believable and realistic, as is their fear and the thread of suspense that flows through that romance. Secondary characters are depth to the plot, and help relieve the tension with the humor and support they offer.  <br /> <br />Dee Davis has written a real winner in DANCING IN THE DARK. Just a word of caution: some of the descriptions of the murders are very gory, so if you're easily disturbed by such scenes, you might want to skip this one.	2004-07-28
US	26619553	R2EZ0TCILZVXKX	0671014919	35226761	My Gal Sunday	Books	1	4	6	N	N	Read at your own risk - and only if you liked Legally Blonde	Henry Parker Britland IV is the ex-president of the United States. Newly married, he wants nothing more than to relax with his beautiful young wife. Unfortunately, the ex-president seems to attract trouble, and in MY GAL SUNDAY, he and his new wife find themselves in the middle of three precarious situations. Three short stories comprise this short book, and the mysteries seem to get progressively worse. <br />I read one novel by Mary Higgins Clark prior to this one, and my expectations were high. However, I was incredibly disappointed with these three short mysteries. They were predictable, dull, and uninteresting. And worse, the endings were sudden, leaving me with the distinct impression that the story didn't so much end, but that Mrs. Higgins Clark had run out of things to say. Hey, maybe she became as bored with the characters while writing as I did while reading. Mr. Ex-President was much too whiny for my taste, while his lovely wife seemed more like Elle Woods in Legally Blonde than the wife of a president in her own right.<br />The book's only redeeming quality is that it's a quick read. At only 206 pages, it'll only kill one afternoon out of your life.	2004-07-07
US	26619553	R2GZCNGTTWXV1I	0553575384	291987598	To Say Nothing of the Dog	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Fun Victorian satire	Ned Henry has been thrown around in time from one jumble sale to the next, looking for a bizarre object named the bishop's bird stump. This is all in an effort to rebuild the Coventry Cathedral, at a time when religion is pretty much obsolete, but money buys everything. Lady Schrapnell is intent on rebuilding the Cathedral, the site where her great-great-great-grandmother had an epiphany when she first laid eyes on the bishop's bird stump.<br />On one of Ned's return trips, he runs into Verity Kindle, another time-travelling historian, and is instantly enchanted by her. Verity has a problem, however. She brought back an item through the time-travelling portal, and in doing so, could have changed the course of history forever. Now it's up to Ned and Verity to bring the item back, and straighten out any incongruities that might have resulted from her impulsive move, in order to save the world as we know it.<br />TO SAY NOTHING OF THE DOG is a humorous science fiction story, with a Victorian twist. As Ned and Verity spend a lot of their time in the Victorian era, a lot of the conversation centers around Victorian poetry and literature. English Majors will be thrilled to understand the references to some of the poetry and literary works quoted, while other reads will be left shaking their heads in wonder. The satire on the Victorian era is very well done, however, and all readers should be able to appreciate that. <br />The characterization is superb, which makes up for the slow-moving plot. Ms. Willis' writing style is full of British wit and  humor, making this a very funny read. For fans of Ms. Willis' DOOMSDAY BOOK, this might come as a surprise, since TO SAY NOTHING OF THE DOG doesn't contain the same level of emotional involvement and satisfaction as the aforementioned novel. Still, a fun read if you have the patience.	2004-06-20
US	26619553	R20L3XV9GGKNUT	0425192091	1113934	Widow in Scarlet (Sinclair Family Saga)	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Delightful Regency Romance	Lucy Contrain's husband died a year ago in an accident, leaving her with a lot of debt she has no hope to pay off on her own. Left with one maid (and that's because the girl refuses to leave) and an empty pantry, Lucy must depend on the kindness of others to make it through the day. She attends the Countess of Sealy's weekly salon and is fortunate enough to be given some of the countess's old clothes to wear. But when Lucy finds a note stuck to her door, stating that she needs to come up with 1,000 pounds or lose her house, she knows there's no hope left for her. No kind soul could ever be that generous.<br />Then she meets Nicholas Richmond, whose search for a royal ruby named \\"the scarlet widow\\" takes him to Lucy's door. He tells her that her late husband was a jewel thief, a fact that Lucy refuses to believe. Then he mentions the reward for the lost jewel-5,000 pounds-and Lucy vows to help him in any way she can. Their search leads them to the seedy underside of London, to royal salons and theater gatherings, and into each other's arms.<br />The plot may be one you've already encountered in many Regency novels, but it's the characterization that really makes this novel shine. Nicholas is as sexy and charming as you'd expect. He's also a rake, whose reputation with the ladies is the talk of the ton. But there's more to him than that, including a past he keeps hidden from everyone, and a generous, kind heart he opens up to the right woman. Lucy is naïve and innocent in the ways of the world, making her a perfect match for Nicholas. She's a quick learner, and it's a delight to see the way she grows from a timid, penniless widow to a confident, gorgeous woman of high society.<br />A delightful book to curl up with, WIDOW IN SCARLET is mostly serious in tone, but provides some great comic relief as well. The love scenes are scorching hot, as is the tension between Lucy and Nicholas.	2004-06-20
US	26619553	R3529DFKO05FJM	0743454510	409444903	Second Glance: A Novel	Books	3	44	46	N	N	Ghost story or history lesson?	&quot;Do we love across time? Or in spite of it?&quot;<br />That's the theme that Jodi Picoult examines in SECOND GLANCE. By the end of the novel, I'm still not sure of the answer to that question. And as far as I can tell, the characters couldn't figure it out either. Perhaps it's meant to be an eternal mystery, but one thing's for sure: a number of people get hopelessly entangled in each other's lives while trying to unravel the mysteries of the past in this novel.<br />Ross Wakeman has tried to kill himself so many times, he's lost track. The only thing he lives for is catching a glimpse of his deceased fiancée, but he's never so much as even seen a ghost. He works as a paranormal investigator, and his travels bring him to Comtosook, Vermont, to visit with his sister, Shelby. While there, he finds more clues pointing to the existence of ghosts than ever before, and he meets beautiful and intriguing Lea Beaumont, a woman who stirs feelings in his heart he never thought he'd feel again. But what mysteries is she hiding? And will Ross ever be the same after finding out?<br />There are a whole slew of characters making their way through this novel, so take that as a warning. You might need to scribble down names and relationships even before you finish the first chapter. Though the plotline seems entangled, it all wraps up nicely (if not quite satisfyingly) in the end. Jodi Picoult has written a novel that's an interesting blend of ghost story and history lesson, though it may bore some readers with its foray into the eugenics movement of the 1930s. The characterization is also weak at times, as evidenced by Ross' complete inability to differentiate between love and obsession with the idea of love. <br />Pick this one up if you're looking for an interesting read, but don't expect a page turner.	2004-05-08
US	26619553	RRXSG2Y0K2TMJ	0441894674	506073532	Wizard Of Pigeons	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Slow paced, but well written	At a time when so many fantasy novels are rehashing the same plot, it was delightful to stumble upon such a different story. The concept is intriguing. The main character, Wizard, is bound by the rules of magic. He must not carry more than a dollar at a time, he must always tell the truth as he knows it, he must remain celibate, and he must feed and protect the pigeons. If you're thinking that the first and last rule make him sound like a lot of the homeless you encounter on big city streets - well, that's the idea.<br />A homeless Wizard. One who has an interesting way to help people. He doesn't cast spells, but he knows things. People talk to him, and what he tells them is helpful, accurate, and always insightful. Then a mysterious, shadowy figure from his past re-emerges and threatens to destroy not only Wizard himself, but the entire city as well. <br />Though beautifully written, WIZARD OF THE PIGEONS is a very slow paced book. A lot of time is spent on exploring and learning about the characters, and during this time, they don't really do much. Wizard, however, makes one bad choice after another, while constantly doubting himself, until I was ready to either throttle him or throw the book in frustration. The ending is anti-climactic, and quite disappointing as well.<br />Still, despite its obvious faults, I enjoyed reading this book for the simple reason that it's an excellent example of wonderful writing. Great descriptive passages and intriguing themes abound, but if you like your fantasy fast paced, this book won't satisfy.	2004-04-04
US	26619553	RVGQCK7NZSS47	0553801430	977865510	By the Light of the Moon	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Bizzare, yet utterly intriguing	When Dylan O'Connor heads out to an art exhibit with his autistic brother, Shep, he thinks this is just another road trip. He plans to sell a few paintings, spend some quality time with his brother, and overall, enjoy himself. He certainly never imagined he'd be abducted by a madman, tied to a chair, and injected with what can only be described as &quot;stuff&quot;, even by the madman himself. Then, things only get more complicated when Dylan realizes that his brother's also been injected, and the two meet a pessimistic, negative comedienne, who - you guessed it - has also been injected with the mysterious &quot;stuff&quot;.<br />Now, the three of them can only depend on each other. The cops can't be of any help, and they're being chased by madmen who seem even more intent on doing them harm than the original mad scientist who got them into this mess to begin with. What follows is one bizarre adventure after another, as the three try to figure out what this &quot;stuff&quot; is doing to them, whether the effects can be controlled, and whether any of them can ever return to a normal life after all of this.<br />Though the premise is bizarre, and the storyline itself is just as odd as it promises to be, BY THE LIGHT OF THE MOON is utterly fascinating. Written in beautiful, entrancing prose, and offering unique insights into the human condition, this is one book that's hard to put down. I often found myself wondering whether events could get any stranger - and they always did. Koontz's imagination never fails to surprise, offering more brain candy than your mind can handle, and inserting enough metaphors and intelligent themes to make you realize that there's something deeper behind this seemingly unrealistic, yet intriguing story.	2004-03-22
US	26619553	R1HC38JGQ64M6X	0312969252	977774249	Nice: An Edgar Award Nominee	Books	1	5	7	N	N	Bizarre, train-wreck of a novel	Grace is much too nice. She can't bear to hurt people's feelings. And she certainly can't say no when men ask her out, again and again, and again. When they don't seem to get the hint, what's a girl to do? Why, kill them, of course!<br />This is the premise of Jen Sacks' bizarre debut, NICE. Take one sociopath and one assassin and bring them together through sheer coincidence, and you have... well, something like a train-wreck. You can't look away. You can't stop turning pages, even though you want to. There's something so weird about the characters, the premise, and even the writing style, that it just sucks you in. Two hours later, when you put the book down (thankfully, it's a very short book), you shake your head and lament the two hours of your life you'll never get back.<br />Still I have to hand it to Ms. Sacks - the premise is fascinating, and absolutely morbid. Unfortunately, the story never quite takes off. Perhaps it's the lack of empathetic characters. After all, can you ever really like a heroine who kills men because she's can't utter a polite &quot;thanks, but no thanks&quot;? Or perhaps it's the writing style. Written in the first person, the novel alternates perspectives in its short chapters, and the story is alternately told from the point of view of both the hero and heroine. Normally, this wouldn't be a problem - but when the entire book is in first person, and the chapters are often no longer than a page or two, I constantly found myself flipping back to the beginning of the chapter to figure out whose head I was in, and who was speaking. Thankfully, at the top of each chapter is the character's name. Why do I get the feeling that even Ms. Sacks' editor didn't think the double first-person POV was a good idea? Then again, if that's the case, she really should have put her foot down and changed it to third person.<br />Interesting premise that falls short. Pick this one up if you're in the mood for a bizarre read, and you have no tabloids around.	2004-03-07
US	26619553	R3AZDGH78EFM3Q	0812971868	27674487	Bombardiers	Books	1	6	14	N	N	Fragmented and uneven	Sid Geeder is a &quot;bombardier&quot;, an investment banker who spends every waking moment working for the Atlantic Pacific Corporation. When he's not working, he's thinking about work. Stressed beyond his limits, the only thing that keeps him going is knowing that he only has nine months before he can cash in his stock options, and retire at the age of thirty-four.<br />But Sid isn't the only trader with problems. Eggs Igino is the newcomer to the team, and he worships Sid as a mentor. As he tries to get the hang of life on the trading floor, Eggs finds he may be in over his head. Gorgeous Lisa Lisa may be a good trader in her own right, but she constantly encounters difficulties as she tries to make it in a man's world while hoping to find true love. And when Coyote Jack suddenly becomes unable to pronounce a single number without stuttering,  he finds himself managing this team of money-hungry, dysfunctional employees.<br />BOMBARDIERS moves at lightning speed, but despite the fast pace of the novel, the story falls flat. Perhaps it's because the characters don't seem real enough. They don't evolve, change, or grow over the course of the novel. Or perhaps the fault lies in the overuse of investment jargon and the utter focus on the life of a day-trader, all of which loses steam after the first hundred pages. <br />Po Bronson drew on his own experience as a day trader to write this book, and it shows. His knowledge of the business is unquestionable, but BOMBARDIERS would have been a much more engaging book had he limited the number of essays on bond sales, and focused more on plot and characterization. Sudden and frequent point of view changes also left me dazed, and I often had to backtrack and re-read entire paragraphs to figure out what was happening.<br />A fragmented, uneven look at the world of investment banking, BOMBARDIERS falls short of an intriguing read.	2004-03-07
US	26619553	RUB86ER9A8SBH	0515133973	358896248	Midnight Bayou	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Pure Paranormal Delight	Declan Fitzgerald has left behind a promising career as a lawyer, not to mention his family, to buy a mansion on the outskirts of New Orleans. Ever since he first saw it as a teenager, Manet Hall has been in his heart. What is it about the abandoned house that pulls him to it? And will the rumors of ghosts and unexplained phenomena scare Declan away from his dream home? <br />When he meets his beautiful neighbor, Angelina Simone, Declan once again feels an inexplicable pull. But as Declan begins to settle into his new life, and starts to fall in love with the mysterious Angelina, secrets from the past threaten to destroy his newfound happiness.<br />This was my first book by Nora Roberts, and wow - I'm thrilled! Now I finally understand what it is that pulls millions of women to the bookstore every time one of Nora's books is released. MIDNIGHT BAYOU is fabulously written, in a flowing style that's neither overly descriptive, nor over-the-top, but manages to balance beautiful descriptions with realistic dialogue. <br />But the true charm of the book lies in its paranormal aspects. The ghosts that haunt Manet Hall aren't your typical otherworldly creatures, and as the storyline unravels, Declan and Angelina get more and more caught up in the mysteries of the past. Beautifully blending theories of reincarnation with pure paranormal fun, Nora Roberts manages to create a captivating novel that is sure to delight old fans and new.	2004-03-02
US	26619553	R1QU2G5328VROJ	0446531413	591313253	On a Night Like This	Books	4	1	6	N	N	Wonderful debut novel	What do you do when you meet Mr. Right, at the wrong time? No, make that at the worst possible time. Blair Clemens is dying of cancer. At this point, all she wants to do is lose herself in her work, and her love of her sixteen-year-old daughter, Amanda. When Luke Bellingham enters her life, a committed relationship is the last thing on her mind. Yet his vulnerability, his concern for her, and his irresistible dog break down her defenses, and she finds herself falling head over heels in love for the first time in her forty-two years, and for the last time in her life.<br />Luke, on the other hand, has problems of his own. His wife left him after years of marriage, without a word of explanation. Now, Luke is heartbroken. He needs to find her, and he needs answers that only she can provide. When he finds himself drawn to Blair, he realizes that the time will come when he'll have to make a choice between the two women who are now irrevocably a part of his life.<br />Written in a warm and hopeful tone, ON A NIGHT LIKE THIS isn't your usual tearjerker. Sure, you'll cry. And you'll definitely laugh at Blair's antics as you read along as well. But most of all, you'll be intrigued, and eager to keep turning pages. Ellen Sussman's writing style is quick, fast, and deceptively simple. Before you know it, you'll be swept away in the world she's created, involved in the character's lives, and eager to know what happens next.<br />Brilliant characterization and lasting themes, such as mother-daughter relationships and empty marriages, make this debut novel stand out from the rest.	2004-02-25
US	26619553	R2UZMY22WP412S	1582970777	26356655	Pencil Dancing: New Ways to Free Your Creative Spirit	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Add this one to your personal collection	I've never considered myself a particularly creative person. In fact, I'd put off my dream of writing a novel for so long partly because I kept going back to one detrimental thought: &quot;What if I can't come up with any ideas?&quot; Since I started writing, however, I found that ideas are endless - and they're everywhere. Yet developing those ideas, looking at them in new ways, still proves difficult.<br />That's why a book like PENCIL DANCING is so remarkable. It helps the reader discover new ways to look at the world. One of the most enjoyable aspects of the book is directly related to the fact that Mari Messer doesn't just focus on one type of art - whether you're a writer, a sculptor, a painter, a dancer, or even a parent or a businessperson - you'll find ways to reach deep inside yourself and discover a creativity you never knew you had.<br />Written in a beautifully poetic style, with a lot of allusions to our natural surroundings (many nature writers are quoted throughout, such as Thoreau, and Annie Dillard), this book has a calming new-age feel to it. Far from being off-putting, this particular style oozes the kind of creative relaxation the reader's aiming for, and it allows the author's ideas and teachings to shine through.<br />Divided into thirty-eight short chapters, PENCIL DANCING can be read cover to cover, or savored a chapter at a time. You'll also find tons of exercises, project ideas, and themes for reflection. This book truly has something for everyone, though be warned, not all chapters will apply to your personal needs at the time of reading. This is one book that should find a permanent home on your shelf, to be reached for and browsed through on a regular basis, as your needs and your creative style change.	2004-02-21
US	26619553	R1AUFMFRL2QTSD	1400030927	548424525	Jennifer Government	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Intriguing, but flawed	What would happen if corporations ran the world? If governments became privatized, taxes were abolished, and employees took the surname of the companies they worked for? This is the intriguing premise of Max Barry's JENNIFER GOVERNMENT. When Hack Nike, Merchandising Officer for the Nike Corporation, signs a contract without first reading it, all he cares about is getting a promotion. What he doesn't realize is that he's just agreed to murder ten Nike customers.<br />The Vice-President of Marketing thinks that killing ten people as they walk out of the store with the newest, hottest shoe will drive up demand, and therefore make the company a fortune. As Hack tries to find a way to escape having to carry out the contract (he ends up subcontracting it to the Police), he encounters Jennifer Government, a single mother who wants nothing more than to find the VP of Nike's Marketing and put him behind bars. As it turns out, they go way back.<br />Max Barry takes an intriguing premise and writes... well, a screenplay. The fast-paced action scenes and snappy dialogue are better suited to the big screen than the novel format. As a result, characterization suffers. The plight of the characters never becomes interesting enough to make me care what happens to them. Sure, the world Barry has created is fascinating, even terrifying, but ultimately, does it really matter? Not when the people we're supposed to care about come across as nothing more than corporate pawns.<br />Jennifer Government is the only one of the main characters who at least gets some semblance of a real life. The scenes with her eight-year-old daughter, Kate, are heartwarming and beautifully written, and they made me wish that Barry had paid the same kind of attention to his other main characters. It's obvious he has the imagination and the skill to pull off a great work of fiction, unfortunately, JENNIFER GOVERNMENT doesn't quite make it to that level. Read it if you're looking for some quick reading, but don't expect any earth-shattering revelations into the state of our society.	2004-02-10
US	26619553	R1BN6YTWH6Y37G	1551669080	794980303	Still Lake	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Simmering sensuality	Sophie Davis writes a column providing household advice. &quot;The poor woman's Martha Stewart&quot;, Sophie doesn't get much of a chance to actually apply that advice - until she buys an old inn in Vermont, and moves her mother and sister along with her. The inn was the setting for a gruesome triple-murder twenty years ago, but Sophie doesn't care much about that aspect of her new home. She's intent on renovating and decorating the place, although she's not too eager to have strangers invade her sanctuary. However, she knows that this is the only way to maintain an income in such a small city.<br />Sophie's life gets even more complicated when the enigmatic John Smith rents an old abandoned cottage near her inn. Why is he there? It's obvious to Sophie that his name is not really John Smith, and he seems to be asking way too many questions about the old murder, yet she can't figure out his true identity. Meanwhile, Sophie has other problems. Her mother, Grace, is slowly slipping away as she battles Alzheimer's disease, and her sister, Marty, is going through an extreme teenage rebellion stage. And why is Sophie so intrigued (and a little frightened) of John Smith?<br />Anne Stuart has created a gorgeous story of finding love when you least expect it. Both characters have issues, and they're as different from one another as could be, yet when they're around each other, sparks fly. The tension and attraction between them is strong, and the reader immediately gets pulled into their relationship, rooting for Sophie and John to make it despite their differences and the obstacles thrown at them.<br />The beautiful scenery and atmosphere works as a wonderful backdrop for the story. My only complaint is that I had the &quot;bad guy&quot; figured out about 1/4th through the story, so the ending didn't come as much as a shock as perhaps it should have. Still, the romance and the incredible sensuality in this story were enough to keep me eagerly turning pages until the end.	2004-02-09
US	26619553	R34P2OD8GGF03C	1582971625	243013380	The Complete Guide to Editing Your Fiction	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A keeper	At any given time, there are thousands of aspiring writers sending out their manuscripts. The majority will never get published. &quot;But I have a great plot!&quot; you think to yourself. &quot;I have great characters, a wonderful setting, a premise that will resonate with readers throughout the ages...&quot; And you very well might. But the secret to keeping your manuscript from returning home with a rejection letter comes down to smooth, polished writing.<br />How do you do that? First, finish writing your novel. The first draft has a particular purpose: getting your story down on paper. Then, pick up Michael Seidman's EDITING YOUR FICTION and read it cover to cover. After you've done that, go back through it, chapter by chapter, and do the exercises, applying the concepts to your own writing. By the time you're done, your manuscript will be a lot better than when you started, and your chances of attracting an editor and perhaps getting your work published will have also improved.<br />Of course, no rule should be followed off a cliff. Common sense is key. If you feel a particular statement doesn't apply to your writing, or you disagree with Mr. Seidman's way of altering a particular case study, by all means, do what's best for you. Just make sure that you have given enough thought as to the reason behind that particular rule. <br />EDITING YOUR FICTION is a definite must-have for any aspiring writer (and a few published authors could benefit from reading this one as well).	2004-02-09
US	26619553	R22538I0SQ7CME	1579547370	538611351	Great Sex: A Man's Guide to the Secret Principles of Total-Body Sex	Books	4	52	56	N	N	A remarkable amount of knowledge	What's not to like about a man who is confident in bed, knows how to please a woman, can always get an erection on command, and can have long-lasting, satisfying sex every time? Wait - you say that's not you? Read GREAT SEX, by Michael Castleman, and it will be.<br />Michael Castleman makes it clear that he's not a doctor, or a sex therapist. He does have thirty years of experience dealing with men's sexual issues, however, as an educator and a journalist. This experience shows in every chapter of GREAT SEX. The first part focuses on \\"The Principles of Great Sex for Men\\". This is where the author's main theme for the book comes in: stop trying to perform like a porn star, and start using your entire body to pleasure yourself and your partner. Each one of the senses should be involved in lovemaking, and Michael Castleman gives great examples of how to make that happen. The second part focuses on women's sexuality and well being, but keeping in mind that the book is targeted at men, this is more of a learning lesson than an owner's manual. Still, the advice and knowledge offered here is invaluable. In the third part, the author focuses on blending the best of both male and female sexual issues. Birth control, oral pleasure, aphrodisiacs - you name it, you'll find it here.<br />Somehow managing to avoid sounding clinical and detached, and yet also maintaining a friendly, conversational tone throughout the book, Michael Castleman offers a remarkably comprehensive tome between the covers of this hardbound book. Pick it up today if you're looking for a new way to please yourself, and your partner. You may be surprised at what you didn't know, and how much more satisfying your sex life can be.	2004-02-06
US	26619553	R1W7W3C43DUKWY	0553584707	116175105	Catering to Nobody (Goldy, Book 1)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Yummy culinary mystery	Goldy Bear, proud owner of Goldilocks' Catering, (Where Everything Is Just Right!), has a lot on her plate. She has to deal with an ex-husband who continues to be verbally and emotionally abusive, and she has to continually watch him engage in fling after fling, many of which end up in marriage. Her eleven year old son, Arch, is taking the death of his favorite teacher quite hard, and he's dealing with it by becoming obsessed with role-playing games. And her roommate, Patty Sue, who has been paying her rent by helping out with the catering business, has become even more dull and unhelpful in the past little while.<br />All these issues come to a head when someone attempts to poison Goldy's ex-father-in-law at one of her catering functions. Suddenly, Goldy's the prime suspect, and she finds herself unable to run her catering business. With the bills piling up, Goldy knows that she must take matters into her own hands if she expects to ever be able to cater in her town again.<br />Thus begins the amateur sleuthing adventures of Goldy Bear. As each one of her neighbors becomes a suspect, Goldy's investigations uncover the kind of dirty laundry that everyone tries to keep hidden in a small town. The first-person point of view works really well in this story, as the reader gets only as much information as Goldy herself has. Another fun aspect of this book is, of course, the culinary theme. As just about everything in the book is compared to food at some point, you better keep something to snack on nearby. The recipes included seem easy to follow, and I'm sure result in delicious culinary experiences of their own.<br />A fun, light mystery offering  I look forward to reading more about Goldy and her adventures in culinary sleuthing.	2004-02-02
US	26619553	R3R91JFC9W2NCE	0375758984	318684906	What Should I Do with My Life?: The True Story of People Who Answered the Ultimate Question	Books	4	6	6	N	N	No easy answers	WHAT SHOULD I DO WITH MY LIFE is not a self-help book. It doesn't provide any clear-cut answers, nor does it claim to. Instead, it offers \\"stories of ordinary people... messy and complicated.\\" If you're looking for a step by step guide to career planning, you won't find it here. However, if you're looking to garner some inspiration from the lives and decisions of others, this book may be just what you need.<br />The stories are organized into eight sections, each dealing with a specific theme. The first section deals with \\"making the right decision in the absence of experience\\", and it asks the question: how can you really pick a preference if you've never tried it? Perhaps one of the most important decisions Po Bronson makes is to not only focus on success stories. For example, Jessica Grossman thought she'd always wanted to be a doctor, like her father. But once she became an ob-gyn, she realized she wasn't cut out for it, and couldn't handle the long hours and constant pressure. During her interview, she often broke down and sobbed in the middle of a busy coffee shop. Clearly, Jessica Grossman could not know what being a doctor would entail, until she'd experienced it first hand.<br />The second section deals with the way our social class influences the question of what to do with our lives. The third focuses on resisting temptations that distract from true aspirations. \\"Failure's hard, but success is much more dangerous,\\" says Mr. Bronson. \\"If you're successful at the wrong thing, the mix of praise and money and opportunity can lock you in forever.\\" He follows that theme up with section four, which deals with the importance of making the best of a situation, whether it lasts three years or a lifetime. Russel Carpenter, for example, has only had one employer in his thirty-five years, which is highly unusual these days. Yet he loves his job, and has seen no reason to leave NASA for another company.<br />Section five looks at practical people who \\"dare to look inward, to their own muddled psyche\\". And section six explores the power of our environment over our career choices. Claude Sidi had wanted to be a marine biologist. He became one, but working on a remote project on the Oregon coast made him realize how much he needed people. He quit and became a dentist in a big city. He snaps pictures of his patients and can tell you the name of their dogs. In short, he loves it.<br />Section seven looks at the way couples handle their dual ambitions, careers, and dreams. And in the final section, Mr. Bronson looks at those who (like many of us) haven't yet figured out their dream jobs, but who are building skills that they might be able to draw upon when the time comes to make their contribution.<br />Written in a warm, almost confidential tone, WHAT SHOULD I DO WITH MY LIFE approaches the stories of ordinary people with an empathy that's hard to find in typical journalist endeavors. Human interest articles often end up being dry and impersonal, yet Po Bronson inserts his own brand of humor and encouragement into each story. <br />It merits repeating that this book does not offer any answers. Instead, it takes an in-depth look at the struggle between money, prestige, security and power and personal fulfillment. Many stories tell the tales of people who have gone from rags to riches, and then back to rags again. If you're at a point in your life where you find yourself wondering whether you were meant to do more, or if you're contemplating quitting your job and making a bold career move, the stories in this book should inspire you to decide upon the course of action that's best for you.	2004-01-28
US	26619553	R3ERD42LSDVBG5	0671553046	623937593	Life Support	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Belivable medical thriller	Dr. Toby Harper has a lot on her plate. She works the twelve-hour overnight shift in the Emergency Room, and at home, she takes care of her elderly mother who has Alzheimer's. When a patient is brought into Toby's hospital in the middle of the night, delirious and confused, she's stumped as to what he may be suffering from. His immediate medical tests are clear, and his family knows nothing of any former medical history that may have led up to this. Then things get even more complicated. The patient disappears right off the table, even though he's been strapped down.<br />In an effort to get to the bottom of things, Toby starts investigating a nearby retirement home for the wealthy. With the help of Dr. Robbie Brace who works at the Brant Hill retirement center, Toby slowly starts uncovering clues that finally begin to point her in the right direction. At the same time, Toby's career is in danger as she's being blamed for letting the patient disappear, and her home life is quickly collapsing around her as her mother's nurse quits and she's forced to hire someone else on short notice. <br />Toby Harper makes a wonderful heroine in LIFE SUPPORT. She's strong and intelligent, and yet she's also very vulnerable and incredibly loyal to her mother. Though it means basically giving up her privacy and her social life, Toby would rather have her mother continue living with her than consider putting her in a nursing home. The secondary characters are also wonderfully three dimensional and interesting, from Robbie Brace, the black doctor among the elitist white staff at Brant Hill, to Molly Picker, the sixteen year old prostitute who wants nothing more than to get off the streets and go home, even though her parents want nothing to do with her.<br />A fully believable, beautifully crafted novel, LIFE SUPPORT is a must-read for fans of medical thrillers.	2004-01-27
US	26619553	R2B0SFJGQX0VS4	0060525185	773984251	A Wedding Story	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Wonderful adventure romance	Twelve years ago, Kathryn Bright Goodale shared an unforgettable kiss with Lord James Bennett. Unfortunately, she was married at the time, and James was one of her husband's best friends. Kate has carried the guilt of that kiss for years, and with it, the fantasies of Lord Bennett that kept stirring in her mind. <br />Now that her husband has passed away, Kate finds herself penniless. All the money went to his children, and Kate, as their stepmother, was left nothing. When she stumbles upon an invitation addressed to her late husband inviting him to participate in \\"The Great Centennial Race\\", she's intrigued, particularly since the winner is to receive the grand sum of fifty thousand dollars - a great deal of money in 1899.<br />But Kate realizes she can't embark on such an adventure on her own. Swallowing her pride, she approaches James, and asks for his help. He's known as a famous adventurer, and although his last expedition ended in his partner's death, James grudgingly accepts Kate's proposal. As the two of them set out to win the grand prize, the passion they shared so many years ago begins to resurface, and soon, Kate and James realize they're in for an experience that may result in a prize far more appealing than money.<br />Despite its rather misleading title, A WEDDING STORY is a fantastic adventure romance. The wedding itself only takes place in the last chapter, and even then it's mostly glossed over. As in all romances, the relationship between the hero and heroine is key, and it does culminate in marriage. However, the focus of the story is on \\"The Great Centennial Race\\", which is an adventure worthy of Indiana Jones.<br />It was refreshing to read about a heroine who was able to physically keep up with the hero through all the trials they had to experience as they embarked on the race. Kate is stubborn, determined, and she hates to lose - all traits that enable her to push herself to the limit of her abilities, and then somehow find the energy to pushherself even further. James is wonderful in his role as adventurer, and the way he protects and cares for Kate is heartwarming. <br />Though the author does stumble a couple of times and calls James by the wrong name (Jake, which coincidentally is the name of the main character in one of her other books, \\"Marry Me\\"), the writing is beautifully descriptive and imaginative. Kate and James travel all over the world during their journey, and Susan Kay Law expertly describes the surroundings without making the reader feel overwhelmed, or detracting from the fast paced story.<br />If you like your historicals with a dash of adventure, and your romance on the steamy side, you'll love A WEDDING STORY.	2004-01-27
US	26619553	R264CZMZSGL8SI	0060525460	620943733	The Beachcomber	Books	1	2	3	N	N	Cookie-cutter characters, unrealistic plot	What happens when a widower and a divorcee from London get together in a small village? If the plot line of the Beachcomber is to be believed - not much.<br />The novel starts out with a definite bang. Tom Marcus is in the car with his wife and two children when someone starts crashing into them from behind, deliberately trying to send them over the edge of the cliffs. He succeeds, and Tom's wife and children are killed instantly, while he's thrown clear of the wreck and survives. Despite the police's best efforts, the killer is not found, and a year later, Tom still can't get the disturbing scene out of his mind.<br />Fueled by the desire to escape the past, Tom finds himself in the small hamlet of West Bay, where he rents a cottage and tries to cope with his feelings of guilt and loss. There, he meets Kathy, a divorcee who's also running away from something - her mean, spiteful mother and her impossibly perfect sister. Kathy's dad had recently died, and she found out he'd left her the house he'd shared with a woman he'd been having an affair with. As Kathy tries to deal with this new information, she comes to realize that her father had been truly happy in West Bay, and she hopes to find some of that same happiness with Tom.<br />The development of Tom and Kathy's relationship is puzzling at best. They're intrigued by one another, sure, but they go from being relative strangers to proclaiming their love in a few short chapters. I was left wondering whether I'd missed something, but the rest of the plot is just as puzzling. The last third of the novel is dedicated to Tom's search for the person who killed his family, and the \\"shocking twist\\" is neither surprising, nor particularly intriguing. It feels contrived and tacked on. <br />Meanwhile, the secondary characters are extremely stereotypical. Kathy's mother and sisters have no redeeming qualities at all. Jasper, the old man who everyone loves is so sweet, he makes you cringe. A few more realistic personality traits would have done wonders for the characters, the novel, and the reader's state of mind.	2004-01-16
US	26619553	R1PPRVRSK8FAJ4	0553579606	14890872	Ashes to Ashes: A Novel (Sam Kovac and Nikki Liska)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Chilling thriller to keep you up all night	Kate Conlan is a former FBI agent turned victim/witness advocate. She treats her clients like family, always eager to be there for them, to support them and give them the encouragement they need. She has only one rule: she doesn't work with kids.<br />When a murderer strikes again, leaving his signature mark of a charred corpse in the middle of a very public park, the cops know they're dealing with a serial killer. His first two victims didn't garner too much attention - after all, they were only prostitutes. Surely, government money could be put to better use than finding their killers? But the third victim is different. She's thought to be the daughter of a billionaire. Too bad the killer decapitated her before burning her, which leaves the cops very little options for identification. Except, this time, there's a witness. She's young, perhaps fifteen or sixteen, and living on the streets has made her stubborn, uncooperative and unreliable.<br />When Kate is assigned to work with this witness, she's appalled. There's a reason she doesn't work with kids. They take too much emotional involvement, and Kate has already lost her daughter - she's not sure she can deal with having any more children taken away from her. Then things get even more complicated as the best FBI profiler, John Quinn, is brought in on the case. Unfortunately for Kate, he's also her ex-lover, and the only man she's ever really loved. <br />This was my first introduction to Tami Hoag's writing, and I have to admit, I'm speechless. Her talent is extraordinary, as she's able to craft an intensely suspenseful story that kept me turning pages well into the night. In fact, I finished this book at 5:00 AM, unwilling to put it down through the last four hundred pages. I needed to know what would happen next. Every twist and turn of this fabulous mystery thriller brought me to the edge of my seat... and just when I thought I had it figured out, another twist in the story would develop, nullifying everything I thought I knew.<br />I truly felt connected to the main characters. Both John and Kate were endearing; both having had to suffer through so much and deal with an inordinate amount of stress. I was rooting for them to find the happiness and peace they so richly deserved. Of course, with a psychopath on the loose, it's a little hard to find time for romance. <br />A word of warning: some scenes are extremely graphic, and quite disturbing. In particular, the autopsy scenes, and those written from the killer's point of view are especially chilling. So settle in with a blanket, a cup of hot chocolate, and this exquisite thriller - and make sure to lock those doors!	2004-01-13
US	26619553	R3VYYBYSHOBGVL	0671867156	316670348	Pretend You Don't See Her	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Satisfying mystery	There's something infinitely satisfying about turning the last page of a good mystery novel and sighing in satisfaction. Mary Higgins Clark's PRETEND YOU DON'T SEE HER offers exactly this kind of contentment.<br />Lacey Farrell has a job she enjoys, selling real estate in her beloved New York City. When the apartment of a singer who had died in a car accident is put on the market, Lacey is glad for the opportunity to sell it. After all, it's in a great part of Manhattan, the asking price is six hundred thousand dollars, and it's sure to earn her a decent commission. She becomes friends with the late singer's mother, and one night as she goes to pay her a visit, she also unwillingly becomes a witness to her murder. Unfortunately, the killer sees Lacey as well, and she's then forced to join the witness protection program, where she struggles to make a new life for herself, constantly watching over her shoulder on the off-chance that the murderer may have finally caught up with her.<br />PRETEND YOU DON'T SEE HER kept me turning pages well into the night. I finished it quickly, as I found the fast paced writing style enjoyable. The characterization was intriguing. I genuinely liked Lacey, who came across as courageous, caring and altogether realistic. Her genuine feelings for her family and her attraction and unwillingness to lie to a man she met while in the witness protection program made her even more endearing. I found myself wishing that the relationship between her and Tom had been more detailed, but that's what I get for reading a mystery novel rather than a romance!<br />This was my first experience with one of Mary Higgins Clark's books, and it certainly won't be the last. She's indeed just as talented as her reputation led me to believe, and I look forward to reading more of her work.	2004-01-06
US	26619553	RBPC1SEVKINM0	0060507594	276715094	Wickedly Yours	Books	2	7	7	N	N	Frustrating regency romance	Sarah Killian and her brother William were orphaned when she was only 9, and her brother was 5. After living on the streets for a while, Sarah finally found a benefactor who could get them both into separate boarding schools. Sarah has spent the last eight years missing her brother, and she's decided to return to London to seek out proper employment and provide her younger sibling with the happy home they didn't have as children.<br />However, things get complicated when she arrives in town. Sarah learns that her brother has been missing from school for almost seven years, having run away before his first year was up. She also finds out that getting a position as a governess will be tougher than she thought, as her stunning looks are likely to hinder her efforts. Still, Sarah is persistent, and though she's forced to live with some distant relatives who delight in treating her more like a servant than family, she firmly believes she can find her brother.<br />Then there is Lord Peter Northrup, who is making his way through high society by hiding behind his role as a dandy, and trying to play matchmaker to his friends. Sarah, however, offers something he can't ignore: a puzzle. Taken by her beauty, and intrigued by her mysterious demeanor, Lord Peter makes it his new goal to find out all he can about this stranger. Things get even more complicated when a well known criminal who preys on the wealthy and gives to the poor returns, but how will Lord Peter react when he finds out that his beloved Sarah has taken on the role of the famous thief?<br />WICKEDLY YOURS promises a delicious romp through the streets of London's underworld... and fails to deliver. What we get instead is a slow paced account of a relationship based on lies, mistrust, misunderstandings, and false assumptions. And of course, if that's not enough to keep two people from living happily ever after, there's also the: \\"I love him so much, but he could never love someone like me!\\" and \\"I love her so much, but she could never feel the same way about me!\\" theme to fall back on for a few hundred pages. The frustration these two experience is thoroughly felt by the reader as well. <br />Sarah teeters between being courageous enough to sneak into people's houses and steal their silverware, and turning pale and getting dizzy spells each time someone mentions the thefts. Instead of making her realistic, these qualities only serve to highlight her inconsistencies as a character. Lord Peter, on the other hand, is more likeable, but even he made me groan as he continued to chase after Sarah, trying to rescue her from... herself.<br />Overall, a disappointing, predictable, poorly characterized romance. Though the writing style is descriptive and authentic to the period, the rest of the novel doesn't provide the satisfaction that fans of regency romances crave.	2004-01-05
US	26619553	RC2A5PV92TZ9C	0060530421	293088446	The Lady, the Chef, and the Courtesan	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Age-old feminine secrets, uncovered	There's something alluring and mysterious about South American women. They seem to possess a self-confidence and elegant beauty that makes them irresistible to men, and a complete mystery to other women. Could it be that they've simply been born with good genes? Or is it something else - a deeper secret passed down through generations that empowers Latin women and gives them the ability to explore and celebrate their sensuality and femininity?<br />Pilar Castillo is twenty-six years old, and trapped between two different cultures. She was born in Venezuela, but now resides in Chicago, where she's learned to live independently. She enjoys her job as a reporter for the Chicago Tribune, and she's dating an all-American photographer named Patrick Russo. Yet her mother heartily disapproves of her choices - both in living, and in men. She's expected to come back home to be with her family, and to marry Rafael Uslar, an arrogant and flirtatious, albeit successful lawyer that she was once engaged to.<br />What's a girl to do when she's being pulled in so many directions? Advice and salvation come in the form of three leather-bound volumes; her grandmother's diaries which encompass her life and many words of wisdom. Pilar's grandmother, Gabriela, believes in the old proverb that states \\"a woman must be a lady in the living room, a chef in the kitchen, and a courtesan in the bedroom\\". By sharing her own experiences, Gabriela imparts upon Pilar the real secrets to being the quintessential Latin woman, and perhaps the most important lesson of all: that a woman should always follow her heart.<br />THE LADY, THE CHEF AND THE COURTESAN is elegantly written, and full of wit, charm and insight into a culture that still seems to be frozen in another time. There are many lessons to be learned from reading this book, and although the advice may sound dated at times - \\"a husband wandering around the kitchen could signify only one thing: his wife had failed miserably in her duties\\" - italso offers a refreshingly open look at relationships, and the gender roles that many of us still play in our daily lives.<br />This is an eloquent, lyrical novel which shouldn't be missed by any woman wanting a deeper look at uncovering the age-old secrets to her femininity.	2003-12-31
US	26619553	R2UCCA60PHN8BK	0060934417	546555129	Bel Canto	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Real depth and insight into the human condition	Hostage situations are typically, by their very nature, short and intense. So how do you write an entire book about a hostage situation without making it lose some of that same intensity? Well, there are two major rules: you have to make it believable, and you have to draw it out over a period of time longer than what's typically expected. Ann Patchett manages to accomplish both these things in her unique and remarkable novel. <br />When a birthday party for a wealthy Japanese businessman is thrown in his honor in a small, South American country, the situation raises some eyebrows. Why this country? Why is this man even attending? And why is it being held at the vice-president's house, when the presidential palace would have been so much more appropriate? But the answers to these questions don't really seem to matter. The bait has been set - Roxane Coss, arguably the world's most talented opera singer is going to be at the party, and she draws together and interesting and very different group of people. Those same people have no idea that they're about to get to know each other intimately, brought together under difficult and terrifying circumstances. When terrorists break into the party and take everyone hostage, the situation seems dire, and well - it is.<br />But this story isn't so much about hostages and terrorists as it is about the redeeming and overwhelming power of music, and the strength of the human soul. The barriers come down between terrorists and hostages, and the differences between them become blurred. Patchett's characterization is expertly done in such a way as to draw the reader into the story, and make him / her feel for each one of the characters. There are no clear cut &quot;bad guys&quot; and &quot;good guys&quot; here. Instead, this is a story filled with real people, with real problems, feelings, and a depth of emotion readers will be hard-pressed to find elsewhere.<br />If you're looking for a deeply emotional novel with real insight intothe human condition, look no further than BEL CANTO.	2003-12-28
US	26619553	RBTLUSOV25KGT	0380819368	807282901	Love and a Bad Hair Day	Books	2	4	5	N	N	Small town romance, slow paced read	Jolene Hadley Corbett has been lusting after Ryman O'Malley since she was fourteen, when he accidentally touched her bare breast while trying to save her from drowning in his grandfather's pool. There's only one slight problem: their two families, the Hadleys and the O'Malleys have been feuding for generations. And this isn't a simple misunderstanding, it's escalated to the point where every gift shop in Verbena, North Carolina sells t-shirts with the slogan \\"I Survived the Hadley - O'Malley Feud!\\". <br />Yet when his grandfather dies, and Ryman becomes the new owner of the South Winds Trav' O' Tel' and returns to Verbena, Jolene is forced to face the man she's been dreaming about for twenty years. If there's one thing Jolene hates more than anything else, it's change, and Ryman's return to town signals nothing but! Will the two be able to get past their feuding families and generations of \\"bad blood\\" in order to live happily ever after?<br />LOVE AND A BAD HAIR DAY is written from the first person perspective, giving us only Jolene's point of view. This is rare in a romance novel (and don't be fooled, even though LOVE AND A BAD HAIR DAY may look like a chick-lit novel, it's really not). There are a few editorial mistakes in the book which should have been caught, such as the sudden shift from first-person to \\"she\\" or even \\"Jolene\\". I doubt the author was trying to get her main character to refer to herself in the third person, as this only happens a few times throughout the book and seems severely out of place. Jolene herself is hard to identify with at times, as she whines, complains and does her absolute best to pick a fight with Ryman every chance she gets - even though she's thought of him constantly over the last two decades.<br />Even so, if you like your romance with a heavy emphasis on families and Southern small towns, and you don't mind a slow paced read, this book will definitely appeal to you on some level. And truth be told, Ryman is a hunk of a hero,the epitome of the Southern gentleman, which definitely makes up for most, if not all, of Jolene's character flaws.	2003-11-28
US	26619553	R1P3B6WPDT6EFS	1592798896	661854218	Dark Lullaby	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Music, Drugs, Sex and... Vampires?	It's the year 1971, and famous rocks stars are dying within only short months of each other. Death can't naturally be claiming such stars as Jimi Hendrix, Jim Morrison, and Janis Joplin in such a short time span - can it?<br />Ashara Konrad thinks she may know the identity of the killer. She and her identical twin sisters are both vampires, but that's where the similarities between the two of them end. Ashara is kind, vulnerable, loving and picky when it comes to her meals (preferring to only kill the old and the corrupt). Her sister, Zariaz, on the other hand delights in torturing the innocent. Her cold and dangerous nature cost her the love of one remarkable man - Ludwig Van Beethoven, in 1811. When he chose Ashara over her sister, Zariaz was devastated, and set into motion her \\"one thousand musicians\\" curse. Her plan was to kill one thousand musicians, which would take the place of the one she couldn't have.<br />With this one book, Staci Layne Wilson has catapulted herself to the top of my favorite vampire authors list. Her characters are extremely realistic. They're each given depth, and believable motivations, and there isn't a stereotypical one among them! The relationship that develops between Ashara and Liam, the lead singer for a new band called \\"Darkside\\" is exquisite. It follows the patterns of every relationship I've ever been in (of course, culminating in that happily-ever-after ending which is the trademark of romance novels). <br />The setting was another aspect of the novel that both impressed and surprised me. I wasn't around in the 70s, so I didn't expect to be too interested in the time period being depicted here. And yet, Staci Layne Wilson's ability to describe the setting captivated me. Everything from the tie-died sweaters to the bellbottom jeans and the marijuana which was so prevalent in the bloodstreams of Ashara's victims served to take me away to another time and place.<br />A beautifully written, fresh vampire novel - don't miss this one!	2003-11-27
US	26619553	R2CLKEINBK8E69	0345460030	601148044	The Amber Room	Books	2	6	9	N	N	Intriguing theme, poor execution	Karol \\"Ears\\" Borya had survived many months in the Mauthausen Concentration Camp during the Second World War. It was there that he first heard mention of The Amber Room, and after his release from the camp he went searching for the treasure. It was never found, however, and forty years later Borya is convinced that the past is behind him - until one day, he gets a visit from Christian Knoll, an \\"Acquisitor\\" interested in information about The Amber Room.<br />Soon after, Borya is found dead, and it's up to his daughter and her ex-husband to undertake a dangerous trip to discover the secret of the long lost artifact. Add into the mix two very dangerous \\"Acquisitors\\" who will do anything to obtain the treasure for their employers, and you have the makings of a captivating thriller.<br />Unfortunately, Steve Berry's debut novel reads like an unpolished first attempt. Full of plot inconsistencies, a great deal of repetition, one-dimensional, unengaging characters and descriptions better suited to a travelogue, THE AMBER ROOM is frustrating to read. None of the characters are in the least bit appealing, which results in complete apathy for the \\"climax\\" of the novel.<br />The pace is slow throughout, and the plot lacks any real plot twists or unexpected surprises which are much needed in this otherwise bland work of fiction.<br />What would have been an interesting non-fiction account of the disappearance of a precious artifact falls flat as an attempt at a mystery novel.	2003-11-18
US	26619553	R1GK1AHCMO9QXE	0756401356	805995001	The War of the Flowers (Daw Book Collectors)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A fairy tale like nothing you've ever heard before...	Thirty-year old Theo Vilmos can't imagine how his life could get any worse. He's still playing in garage bands with band members half his own age, his pregnant girlfriend miscarries and leaves him, his mother dies of cancer, and he loses his part-time job delivering flowers... all within the span of a few short months. But when a walking corpse breaks through his bathroom window, and he's saved from the murderous creature by a fairy no taller than a ballpoint pen, Theo seriously starts to consider that things are only going to get worse before they get better.<br />Thrust into the magical land of Faerie, Theo struggles to understand the laws of a world unlike his own, while at the same time trying to comprehend what could possibly make him as important as he seems to be to the ruling class fairies. It seems everyone wants a piece of Theo, and not everyone's reasons are as benign as Theo would like. Accompanied by Applecore, his savior fairy the size of a ball-point pen, he makes his way through Faerie, most days trying only to stay alive from the myriad of creatures that seem to be pursuing him.<br />Filled with some of the strangest characters to ever appear between the pages of a fantasy novel, WAR OF THE FLOWERS is thought provoking, and utterly entertaining. Tad Williams's ability to write humor, suspense, action, and evoke an emotional response from the reader (often all at once!) is remarkable. The world building is in-depth and enthralling. A stand alone fantasy novel is hard to find these days - one as thought provoking and engrossing as this one is almost impossible to come across. If you like your fantasy with a touch of myth and magic, then look no further than WAR OF THE FLOWERS. It will challenge every fairy tale you've ever heard, and put to rest the question of whether fairies really exist once and for all.	2003-10-29
US	26619553	R3PRH0QEAZFJJD	0804120021	358555757	Out of Sight (The Men of T-FLAC: The Wrights, Book 5)	Books	4	1	4	N	N	Gritty romantic suspense	A.J. Cooper is nothing like the beauty queen that her mother wanted her to be. Yes, she's drop-dead gorgeous with a body women envy and men drool after, but she despises the fact that her looks get more attention than her brain and her abilities. When A.J. is offered the opportunity to become an agent for the anti-terrorism agency, T-FLAC, she's determined to succeed. She's at the top of her class, and her sniper abilities are practically unmatched. But when a bullet from a training rifle tears its way through her flesh, will A.J. ever be able to get beyond the experience and truly become a top of the line operative?<br />Fazur Hessan Ali Raazaq is on the FBI's most wanted list for his terrorist crimes. He's also known to have a particular fondness for red-haired American women. A.J. seems to be the only one who can get close enough to him to take him out, but Kane Wright disagrees. In charge of the mission, Kane has been working alone for the past two years, since he was taken captive and forced to watch his men being tortured and killed. Now, he doesn't want to be held responsible for anyone's life ever again. And he definitely doesn't want to give in to his growing feelings for this gorgeous, and admittedly rookie operative.<br />What follows is a whirlwind of adventurous events that take place against the beautiful and harsh background of Egyptian landscape. A.J. and Kane are forced to fight a madman and his cronies while also fighting their intense passion for each other.<br />At a time when terrorism is a growing worldwide concern, Cherry Adair has crafted a story that tugs at the heartstrings and celebrates the operatives that work to keep us safe from madmen such as Raazeq. <br />A story full of sexual tension and hot love scenes, OUT OF SIGHT succeeds in striking the balance between a gritty, realistic novel and a heartwarming story about the power of love. In the end, this is a novel that is sure to delight those who like their romantic suspense with a harsh and gritty dose of reality.	2003-10-12
US	26619553	R3JXOF7NJPA4EC	006053821X	786596100	The Companions: A Novel	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Thought-provoking and beautifully written	THE COMPANIONS was my first introduction to Tepper's writing - and wow, what a fantastic way to start!<br />Sheri S. Tepper has written a gripping, powerful novel about our future. It deals with such themes as overpopulation, animal rights, and communication with other cultures. It also raises important questions about religious beliefs, such as: if man was created in God's image, aren't we superior to every other lifeform? And if so, don't we have the right to take the lives of those lesser lifeforms? Not a quick read by any means, this is one novel you'll want to take your time reading and savoring, and it's likely to stick with you for weeks afterward.<br />The book is written in the first person point of view, which gives the reader a great deal of insight into the state of the Universe in the year 2712. Jewel Delis, the novel's heroine, is an arkist - a person who strives to preserve what little animal life is left on Earth. Encountering an immense amount of opposition, Jewel is forced to take the dogs she'd been working with for years away from Earth, or they would certainly be destroyed.<br />The planet Moss seems to provide just the right place for a brief relocation until a more permanent solution can be found. But the planet itself has secrets. What are the colorful flame-like beings that dance in the clearings at night? What happened to almost 80 people who went for walks in the moss and never returned? And what are the bright flashes of light that make people disappear?<br />An intriguing and thought provoking read, THE COMPANIONS is a wonderful example of a clever, richly developed science-fiction novel.	2003-10-10
US	26619553	R3NWAI2JLWDRHI	0446532401	144241916	Midnight Harvest (The chronicles of Saint-Germain)	Books	5	11	14	N	N	A great addition to a winning series	It's the mid-1930s, and even though &quot;The Great War&quot; was supposed to put an end to hostilities, the political situation in Europe seems worse than ever. Saint-Germain has settled in Spain, where he runs a very profitable company that builds airplanes. When the Spanish government decides to overtake the company, Saint-Germain knows he's in danger of being imprisoned - or worse. He sees no other option but to flee to America, where Rowena, one of his former lovers is waiting in San Francisco.<br /> America has political and economic issues of her own. At a time when most Americans are struggling with the after-effects of the Stock Market Crash of '29, foreigners are unwelcome. A new group, The White Legion, has vowed to rid America of foreigners taking their jobs. Saint-Germain finds himself in the middle of this dispute, as he's invested heavily in a vineyard owned by an Italian man who has been targeted by the White Legion. Add to that a ruthless killer who has been sent from Spain with orders to kill Saint-Germain, rapid changes in technology, and a wonderfully developed cast of secondary characters, and you have one deeply engaging story!<br /> It's clear that Yarbro has done a great deal of research for MIDNIGHT HARVEST. Rich in detail and beautiful imagery, the setting and time period come alive throughout the novel. Characterization, as in all of Yarbro's works, is magnificent. Saint-Germain is once again perfect in his heroic role, and he's joined by his faithful manservant, Rogerio, and one of his former lovers who is now in her fifties, but no less charming and endearing. <br /> A wonderful addition to the Saint-Germain series, MIDNIGHT HARVEST also stands well on its own, and could serve as a great introduction to Saint-Germain for those unfamiliar with Yarbro's winning series.	2003-10-01
US	26619553	RNGUZX7SWE0AR	0345441133	971990962	Summer Island	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Get those tissues ready - you'll need them!	Nora Bridge has struggled to become the successful advice columnist and radio talk show host that she is. She particularly enjoys the legions of fans who hang on to her every word, and call in to ask deeply personal questions, relying on her moralistic and often harshly accurate advice. But the world she's built soon comes crashing down, when a man Nora had an affair with years ago surfaces, baring nude pictures of her in his arms. And when her fans find out that she was still married to her ex-husband at the time the pictures were taken, they're ready to turn against her. After all, how could they continue to take marital advice from a woman who is so clearly a hypocrite?<br />As Nora sees her career coming to an end she hits rock bottom, believing that the past has finally caught up to her, and she's now lost everything. Eleven years ago, when her marriage ended, she left behind two young daughters who were distraught and betrayed by her actions. Even after all these years, Nora still has an estranged relationship with them both. Ruby, the younger daughter, has proven to be especially difficult, refusing to speak to Nora for over a decade and struggling to make a career as a stand-up comedian out of her resentment for her mother. <br />When an accident brings Nora and her daughters back to the place that holds so many memories for all of them, the barriers they've built around them come crashing down. But can a few days in a home filled with old memories be enough to erase so many years of deep resentment?<br />Kristin Hannah's strength as a writer shines through her characterization. Nora is extremely believable as a guilt-ridden mother yearning to make up for the mistakes she made in her past. Ruby is equally endearing as the betrayed daughter who harbors a lot of resentment for Nora. They come together in scenes charged with emotional energy in order to work through their feelings and start the healing process.<br />SUMMER ISLAND is a novel about forgiveness and redemption and the choices we make. It's also a book that raises some interesting questions: How well do we really know our parents? And when we lose one of them, do we lose a part of ourselves as well? Among the exploration of the mother-daughter relationship lies another story of familial heartbreak along with a deeply moving portrayal of a young man on his deathbed. All these themes necessitate a full box of tissues nearby - SUMMER ISLAND is a definite tearjerker, and a must read for fans of passionate and dramatic family sagas.	2003-09-23
US	26619553	R1NPEI7RZNG9R6	0446530727	895937790	How to Meet Cute Boys	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Cotton Candy for the Mind	Benjamina Franklin (yes, that is her real name - as the story goes, her parents were on some heavy drugs when they thought of it) should be walking on air. She has a great job as a writer for a popular women's magazine, a nice apartment, supportive friends - and she gets invited to the best parties. What she doesn't have is \\"The One\\" - that perfect relationship she so eagerly craves.<br />When Bejnamina meets Max, and falls hard, she starts to believe he might be \\"The One\\". But when he flashes a fake ID to get into a bar, she realizes her problems are only beginning. Max is cute, single, owns his own clothing line, and seems to genuinely like Benjamina - but he's only 20. Can a guy that young be ready for the kind of commitment Benjamina has in mind? Or is he destined to break her heart?<br />HOW TO MEET CUTE BOYS is a fun, light-hearted novel about one woman's relationship struggles. The first-person writing style allows the reader in-depth insight into Benjamina's most personal thoughts and feelings, such as her constant self-doubt and insecurity. A cast of colorful secondary characters accompanies Benjamina throughout the novel. Magazine articles and quizzes, like the ones you'd find in Cosmopolitan, give the novel the feel of a guilty-pleasure. Pick it up if you're into fluffy, and often hilarious reading material. HOW TO MEET CUTE BOYS is like cotton candy for your mind!	2003-09-19
US	26619553	R2J2N0SYV8H6T4	0802135331	373377229	Moon Tiger	Books	3	78	82	N	N	A novel of self-discovery, and reflection	Perception. That is the major theme that occurs throughout the novel. The way we see and interpret events may not necessarily be the way others perceive them. One woman's &quot;History of the World&quot; can only be based on subjective interpretation.<br />Claudia Hampton has lived a full, rich life. At the age of 76, she's now on her deathbed, recalling a myriad of poignant moments she had experienced in her long life. Many people have made an impact upon her life: her brother Gordon, for example, who was a mirror image of Claudia, and who shared in their borderline-incestuous relationship. Her daughter Lisa, as different from her mother as could be. Her lover of many years, Jasper, who served his purpose, but who never truly won her heart. The love of her life, Tom, who she only knew for a short period of time but loved deeply and powerfully. They all play a part in what she calls &quot;Claudia's History of the World&quot;. The bits and pieces of her life come rapidly, with no chronological order to bind them together, and Claudia takes the time to muse over everything that has made her who she is.<br />MOON TIGER is extremely powerful at times and always eloquently written. The love story between Tom and Claudia is breathtaking. Selfishly, I wish it had been longer. I yearned for more character development and depth in Tom, although as readers, we know as much about him as Claudia herself did. Their romance was brief, but passionate, and it left me yearning for more right along with Claudia.<br />A word of warning: although the book is relatively short (at 200 pages), it feels lengthy and drawn out at times. Again, this only serves to highlight Lively's skill at writing Claudia's last experiences. Of course, being a dying woman's memoirs, the book is short on plot and long on self-discovery, and reflection.<br />A must-read for lovers of literary fiction - but those with a taste for more adventurous plot lines would probably not find their desired reading material in MOON TIGER.	2003-09-16
