US	26771740	R12R56B37BBYE	0399148701	17508097	Red Rabbit	Books	1	6	8	N	N	This book should of never been published...	Red Rabbit....well there have been a lot of bad things about this book, so I am going to add more fuel to the fire. Red Rabbit takes place in the early 80's, we dont know because Clancy does not tell us, and by page 20 we know the plot of what the Soviets wanted to do; they wanted to kill the Pope because they feared if he retired the papacy and returned to Poland, then things could get a little hairy for the pro-Communist government there at that time. So comes in Jack Ryan; a younger and more enegertic man, and it takes place after Patriot Games (A great novel). So he comes back to London to work for the British government thanks to Admiral James Greer and Sir Basil Charleston. In Moscow, we then meet Mary and Pat Foley where they are keeping tabs on the Kremlin thanks to CARDINAL. So now as the book DRAGS on, we then meet Rabbit; a data-entry clerk who works deep in the Kremlin who then discovers the plot of the assassination of the pope. So now with this information, Rabbit then slips Pat a note telling him what is going on, it then goes back to Jack Ryan which he has to sneak out Rabbit out of the Soviet Union which went smootly. So now Rabbit tells Jack the plot since we have known this from page 20. So now it is off to Rome where the pope is shot, but not killed. So now as the ending feels rushed, Jack then feels stobbed because he could not stop the failed assassination.<BR> So he heads back to London. <br />There is no suspense, and the book should of been 200 pages instead of the 620 pages. The editing is done HORRIBLY and just reading it left me in disquist and I felt I was robbed of my money when I brought this. Dont buy this novel.	2004-04-09
US	26771740	R32FUDO4NIFLMW	0375727345	498826779	House of Sand and Fog (Oprah's Book Club)  (Vintage Contemporaries)	Books	4	1	7	N	N	Good story, good characters, but writing and ending is poor	House of Sand And Fog....interesting story about Colonel Beharmi; a former Iranian Air Force colonel under the Shah, then came the Islamic Revolution of 1979 where he and his family fled the country to live in the U.S. because if they went back to Iran, then they would be killed by the Mullah's because he served the Shah which what happen his fellow men in his govermnent. Now once a rich man in Iran, he is now picking up trash on the highway, so in order to restore his family's honor, he discovers a house being auction by the county, so he gets the money and moves in with this wife Nadi and his son Ismail. Now we meet Kathy; a recovering drunk and drug abuser who discovers that her house is being auctioned without her constent because the county said that she owned taxes which she didnt know about until they evicted her out of her apartment. Then with this struggle with Beharmi, then Kathy meet Lester; a cop with a nice family and wife. He then joins her struggle to get back the house, but it ends in disaster. The failure to understand each other hurts even more, Beharmi is used to a society where women do what the men tell them, and they have to wear the hijab as due to Islamic faith, but since they dont understand each other, things just get worst than better. The characters are good, but sometimes I felt the writing to this book was very poor and Andre Dubus III didnt get to the point most of the time in this book. The characters made some stupid mistakes in the book, like when Lester breaks into their home and locks them in the bathroom, I found that very unrealistic on his part because Lester didnt act intelligent enough or made any good points about what should of been done since he felt like he was in charge because he had a gun. It is just human nature for someone to have power over someone when they have a weapon that can kill them instantly. The book makes a couple of good points about American society; where every American wants things their way or they would sue them for something stupid like wrong food order or not being fast enough, or having trees inside the restaurant which someone can get allergies all of a sudden. If House Of Sand And Fog was written by a much more better writer; Stephen King would be good, then I would think that it would of ended differently and the writing would of made more sense because Andre Dubus III can make good characters, but he needs to work on his writing a little bit more.	2004-04-09
US	26771740	R8YB9HJAJ6QSD	0060392452	194848581	Stupid White Men ...And Other Sorry Excuses for the State of the Nation!	Books	5	8	14	N	N	Oh shut the f*ck UP!	Stupid White Men is just outright FUNNY AS HELL! Michael Moore is a pure genius when it comes to bringing out the truth those horrible conservatives do to our country. For one, Bush was not elected President, Gore had more votes than him, but the Supreme Court came into play and named him President. Why? Because the conservatives Judges who sit on the bench wanted to retire under a Republican Administration. So Gore is a President-in-exile. <BR> Moore gets down to the facts; all his life Bush had things handed to him; he went to Yale and Harvard, he didnt pay for it, he was given a oil company, failed. He was given the Texas Rangers, failed. Then he was given the Presidency, already failed at that. Need I go on? Of course there is a lot of ground to cover, and very little time to cover. Moore also points out that Bush believes that there is no hole in the ozone layer? Really then why are the polar ice caps melting in the North Pole? Why did he back out of the Kyoto Treaty signed by 170 nations but one country back out? the U.S. The Bush Administration has done a lot of shady stuff that they dont want us to know. Ohhh how Bush has done us so wrong.	2004-03-30
US	26771740	R1SJOHMH3E2ISZ	0385498721	179075750	Survivor: A Novel	Books	5	0	1	N	N	The most weirdest and one of the best books I have read...	Lots of novels start out from the beginning where we meet the characters and get to know them...in Survivor, this is not it. Instead it is going backwards with the life story of Tender; a former cult memeber called the Creddish Society which they comitted a Jim Jones mass suicide. So now 30,000 feet in the air and getting ready to crash into the Australian outback, he then tells his story of the famous black box (which is really orange), and so he tells his story about being saved from the cult, and how is psycharicist tells Tender to make up syomptms he does not have so she can chart his success overcoming the disorders. He then goes around his daily routine; cooking, cleaning, and he has his own suicide help line which he tells people to kill themselves because they really dont have anything to live for. So now, the suicide level has risen, and he thinks that his brother Adam is killing people he knows and making it look like a suicide. So now, Tender is then found out that he is the last survivor of the Creedish Cult, and now he is famous all over the world. Before he gets famous, he meets a woman named Feternility which she can predit tragic events before they happen. So now that Tender is famous, he then has people write his autobiography (which he didnt write), and has a huge following which they think that he is a messenger and can heal the sick, and make everyone feel better. So now, with this in hand, Fetternility then tells Tender that there is going to be a hijacking of a plane and it is going to crash; that is all she knows. So now, Tender then gets on the plane and hijacks it, but their is no one inside it so now, we then meet Tender again saying 'testing 1, 2, 1, 2...'<br />I felt this was a very unique novel by Mr. Palahniuk, and if you thought Fight Club was weird, boy do he has a surprise for you. I didnt expect like another Fight Club, but I expected something orginal and I got it. Good job.	2004-03-22
US	26771740	RZODHP0V3FR2R	0679735771	92932803	American Psycho	Books	5	3	6	N	N	The life of a rich and sick individual in the 80's.	Bret Easton Ellis brings us into the world of Patrick Bateman; A 26 year old individual who works on Wall Street, who goes to expensive dinners with fellow co-workers who talk about Evian water, The Patty Winters Show, 'I am wearing Gucci loafers, an Armani suit, and a silk Ralph Lauren tie.' talk, teasing homeless people with his AmEx card asking them if they accept them, having orgies with prostitutes, renting videos, working out at Xclusives, doing coke, and slaying innocent people for his own sick and demented pleasures.<BR> He seems like a normal person in the first 100 pages, but once you get past the first BORING 100 pages, then get ready for some of the graphic violence you have never even imagined! What is going through this man's head is just plain sick, and he has a very racist mind when it comes to other races. Patrick Bateman in other words is very crazy; he is not just another crazy killer; no. Patrick Bateman protrays a normal yuppie in the 80's, but beyond the Gucci loafers, and good looks is one of the most sickest minds ever created by a American author. I am not saying that this is the most boring novels ever written, it is the most original novel to come out in decades. Even the gory scenes would sicken the fans of Stephen King and any other horror purist out there; Rob Zombie and Scott Ian of Anthrax would love the gory scenes in this novel. The thing is that this is not a horror novel, it does not fall into the horror category, it falls into a category of one that Bret Easton Ellis created when he wrote this conversational novel over ten years ago; it came out in 1991, but his former publisher decided not to print it because of the scenes soft of like Mel Gibson's 'The Passion Of The Christ' where it depicts Jesus having his hands nailed to the cross. It is depicted in this novel where Bateman does crucify a prostitute on this floor thanks to his nail gun. <BR> So is this novel just full of violence? yes, but it also depicts life in the 80's and how we live in a destructive culture, and that we are not a destructive species.	2004-03-20
US	26771740	R2VU9F8MCVY8QQ	0316602906	981192109	The Big Bad Wolf	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Where is the ending?	The Big Bad Wolf to me left me kind of disappointed, since I am a kind of new James Patterson fan, but with The Big Bad Wolf, I was glad to see Alex Cross back in business, he is now in the FBI, and he is given a case where people are being kidnapped and being sold for sex slaves, and one of the main people running this operation is named The Wolf, and he makes a lot of money doing what he does best. So now, he runs this high-secure website, and a 12 year old girl breaks the code to get into the website and into the chat rooms where they make requests for slaves. So Alex takes advantage of this, and he goes after The Wolf, but who is the Wolf? Mr. Patterson does not say, nor do we know why he is doing this...so a lot of questions left unanswered when I finished this book. There is NO ENDING! It just stops, in the middle of the action like there is going to be a sequel, but we dont know. So now....Alex Cross thinks he has got the wolf, but it is not him! it is one of the Wolf's men, but then he gets killed in the end, and that is it! Nothing. The story is great, and it just drags on the end like he wanted to get done with the book so he could start 3rd Chance, and he is coming out with another book like Suzanne's Diary for Nicholas (which I thought was just perfect), but we just got to wait and see what Mr. Patterson is going to do with the rest of this unfinished tale.	2004-03-19
US	26771740	R4R6FEYDF6NBK	0471265179	432255037	All the Shah's Men: An American Coup and the Roots of Middle East Terror	Books	5	7	16	N	N	We need to shake our heads in shame....	All the Shah's men is about how the overthrow of a democratically-elected Prime Minister got overthrown by the CIA and the British government and replaced with the dicatorship of Mohammed Riza Shah, which then led to the Islamic Revolution by Ayatollyah Rudollah Khomenti, which created a Theoracy and the biggest sponsor of terrorism. It was a cool night in Iran, where Prime Minister Mohammad Mossadegh who was widely popular for nationlizing the country's oil from the British was overthrown by the CIA and the British government in a operation called Operation Ajax. Once he was overthrown, he was then replaced with the dicatorship of the Shah to the Peakcock thrown in Iran which his dicatorship lasted 27 years until the Islamic revolution in 1979 which was led by Ayatollyah Rudollah Khomenti, which then led to the American hostage crisis which Iranian students took over the American Embassy, which then led to Jimmy Carter's loss of reelection and which brought in Ronald Reagen. So as people watched Americans being held prisoners in a foreign country, most Americans didnt know the history of how we got there. First it was in 1953 where Prime Minister Winston Churchill and President Dwight Enisenhower when the Churchill brought up that the Prime Minister Mohammad Mossadegh was going to turn Iran into a 'Communist State'. So with this threat, the CIA and the British government made a operation called Operation Ajax which would overthrow the Prime minister and replace him with Mohammad Reza Shah. So why would they want to overthrow a democratically elected person? The British then had occupied Iran during WW1 and WW2, and they were the first to discover oil in the country, so they wanted to have the oil for themselves and they created a oil company. Iran then was in a huge mess; most of the country was umemployed, poverty, and very deep in the past. So with this, Iran was trying to become a democracy, but the British wanted to create a monarchy, but the Iranians didnt want that since they didnt want another country trying to make them into their own image (sound familiar?), so with this, they created a Paraliament, and came Mossadegh who came in there, and changed everything. He made the oil company independent from the British, so with this, they got mad. <BR> How did the U.S. get involved? It got involved because the British government told the U.S. that they wanted to create a 'Communist State', so they took counter-reaction since they didnt want another country dedicated to Communism. So with overthrowing the Prime Minister, they thought they had it good. We were wrong. After 27 years of dicatorship, he was then overthrown, and the Shah was gone from Iran. So now what we have left with Iran? Nothing. We left Iran a mess, and we are trying to make a difference with Iraq and hopefully it can transform Iran and other countries into democracries, but yet we can only wait and see.	2004-03-17
US	26771740	RMD3MB6MF7Y9K	0446532231	628954405	Dude, Where's My Country?	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Oh how we could not live without Michael Moore....	Bill O'Reilly dislikes his views on politics, Sean Hannity can't stand the man, the loco woman Anne Colture can't stand him either....so why all the fuss? It is in this book. Michael Moore explores the hidden lies that conservities bring to the public. Did you know that the Bin Laden's were flown on Sept 11.th and were escorted by the American Air Force? Did you know that when George W. Bush was Governor of Texas, that he wanted to build a natural gas pipeline through Afghanistan when the Taliban was in power, and was ready to give the Taliban $100 million dollars? So let me guess, Bush just cares about money, and does not care who he gives it too, even to people who oppress women and support terrorism? I guess Bush was so blinded with oil that he must of not cared to see what they were doing to their own people. This makes me sick to my stomach because Bush was not elected President, he was chosen by the Supreme Court by a 5-4 decision, so he was the SECOND UNELECTED PRESIDENT in American history! Also the book talks about how Sean Hannity, Michael Savage, and Ann Colture said this. 'Liberism is not a thought, it is a mental disorder.' Michael Savage 'We should invade their countries and convert them to Christinary.' Ann Colture. 'I believe that we should ban all French products because they didn't support us in the war with Iraq.' Bill O'Reilly. WHAT? For one, it was the French that helped us build our Army against the British, it was the French that gave us weapons to fight, the money they needed for this country to fight the most strongest Army in the world then!<BR> But the thing that I am worried about is that liberals and conservatives fight and bicker all the time, and I am tired of this because we are all Americans, and we need to stop blaming ourselves for society, and views about subjects like gay marriage, and the list goes on. So if Michael Moore is reading this, I agree with you, but we need to unite as one and stop bickering about this and that.	2004-03-16
US	26771740	RSKMX2KWJYL5H	0140177396	371714764	Of Mice and Men	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Definitely one of my favorite novels...	Of Mice and Men is by far my most favorite John Steinbeck novel. Of Mice and Men takes place in California where we meet Lennie and George; they are both farm workers going from farm to farm working in the fields. Both Lennie and George are both two different people, but they each have their own strong points and weak points; Lennie is strong, but has the brain of a five year old, George is smart, but not strong like Lennie. A lot of times, George decides for Lennie, and Lennie is almost never left alone by himself. So they come to a farm and do some work, but the farmers wife comes around, and she is known for messing around with the other farm workers, so he keeps his wife on a short lease. As the story progresses, George and Lennie feel their friendship come closer, and you start to care for Lennie because he does not know any better, so you feel sorry for him. Now one night, Lennie is left alone, and the farmers wife comes to Lennie who is in the barn, and hurts one of his animals, so he takes him in his arms and violently shakes her, eventually killing her. The Lennie tries to bring her back to life, then failing. So when George comes back to the farm, so now everyone in the farm goes hunting for Lennie. So with shotguns ready to kill Lennie, George looks for Lennie and eventually see's him, and rescus's him from his misery; killing him with the shotgun. <br />It is a sad tale, but yet very warming and yet very good. This is an American classic, but yet still very good even as old as this book is. A definite read, I have read this book three times and yet it stills one of my favorite books by John Steineck	2004-03-16
US	26771740	R2PJITDVPMNQR6	0679781498	693345954	Less Than Zero	Books	5	0	2	N	N	Quite a debut for Ellis	Although this book is about as old as I am, but hey it is still a damn good novel. Less Than Zero takes place in Christmas 1985 in L.A. where the narrator Clay comes back from college from break, and he discovers his friends deep into sex, drugs, prostitution, and just about everything you can imagine about the 80's. As the story moves along, we meet Rip; Clay's dealer, Julian; a male prostitute, and Blair; Clay's girlfriend, and ex girlfriend. As you get deeper into the novel; which isnt that long; just about some 200 pages, not a lot of things happen, but Bret creates his characters with no emotion and very little self-conscience. We also see Julian having sex with a older man, which he is also deep into cocaine himself, and crack. Rip and Clay friends are so deep into it, that they dont even recognize what these drugs are doing to them, but they are young and they could care less what can happen to them. As we near the end, Clay then realizes that this is not for him, so he heads back East and leaves L.A. forever.<br />Now the moral of this story is that, drugs can ruin your life, and also mixed with money, power, and youthfulness, nothing can stop you, or so they think. This book brings a generation to life, and the perils of generation X.	2004-03-16
US	26771740	RIJFJK3S95IKW	0679781498	693345954	Less Than Zero	Books	5	0	3	N	N	A Definite read....worth reading twice!	Less Than Zero is Bret Easton Ellis first novel, and I fell in love with it like I did for American Psycho. The story takes place in L.A. in 1985, and the narrator is Clay; a young adult who comes back to L.A. from college in the East for Chirstmas vacation. Now as he comes back, he see's his friends doing drugs, having sex, and basically ruining their lives. His best friend is Julian; a heavy drug user, and a male prostitute, there is Blair; Clay girlfriend, and ex-girlfriend. Rip; Clay's dealer. As the story moves along, Clay gets sucked in the life style they have chosen, and realizes that this is not for him. He see's his friend Julian get caught in prostitution, Rip gettign rich from drug dealing, and Blair doing the same thing. <BR> In the end, he then heads back East and leaves California forever.<br />So what makes this book so good? The way the story is told, and also how Ellis expressed his characters, and also how he can write. Good book.	2004-03-15
US	26771740	R3HFDMZGVHZQKA	0451169514	380266608	It	Books	5	1	5	N	N	Definitely one of King's best!	IT is the second best book by my favorite author. A lot of people call King 'One of the best authors living'. IT starts out with the death of Bill's brother Georgie. Now we flash forward to 1985 where another string of murders of children have begun again, 27 years later after the Loser's defeated IT. Now it has come back! Mike Hanlon is one of the Losers who stayed in Derry while the others went their own ways that one hot summer in 1958. Bill is now a famous horror-writer, Richie is a famous talk show radio host, Ben is a aratech (I know I spelled it wrong, so sue me), Bevelery is married to a abusive husband but designs clothes, Eddie is a limo driver known for driving huge celebrities around town, Mike is the local librarian, Stan owns his own business (I cant remember, so SUE ME!). Mike then gives them a call telling them that IT has come back. So now, they come back to Derry to talk about IT and how they can destroy it for good. So now King then takes us back to 1958 and 1985. <BR> As the book moves along, they each discover IT in their own adventures alone, and they band together to figh IT. Now not only do they have to worry about Pennywise (IT), they have to worry about Henry, and his friends Belch, and his other friend. They pick on them throughout the summer, and they discover IT when they follow them to the sewer where the Loser's face it for the first time in 1958. So now, back in 1985, they go back down there, and they kill Pennywise in his orginial form: a HUGE spider! So now they kill IT, and the end. <br />So why is this one of his best books? King writes a lot, and he has written more than 30 books in this 30 year career. So now, as he slows down as he gets older, Pennywise comes back through the Dark Tower which is a good series. So now, if you are reading this, read IT and prepare to get scared and have a good time with IT.	2004-03-11
US	26771740	R3NP5B419FH6CZ	039915079X	700072898	The Teeth of the Tiger (Jack Ryan Novels)	Books	1	2	3	N	N	what happen Clancy?	I read this book with real excitement, and still a little disappointed with Red Rabbit, so I gave Clancy another chance, and beside this was Tom Clancy; the master of the techno-thriller! The Teeth Of The Tiger is by far THE WORST book I have ever READ! I read a lot also; about 200 books a year, and this is just stupid! The book is about Brian and Dominac, and Jack Jr. joining this secret organization called 'The Campus' which was set up by Jack Ryan. So now as they train, terrorist set up connections with the Columbian drug lords so they can bring them to America and attack a mall full of citizens shopping. So now, as the story moves along, we discover the terrorist killing them, and Brian and Dominac spring into action killing the terrorists. So now, Jack Jr. Brian and Dominac head to Europe to kill the main planner. The end.<br />So what makes this book so BAD!? The writing, and also boring story telling. Clancy did not take his time writing this novel, he rushed it just to get it out, and he rambled about stupid stuff like this 'Brian and Dominac were watching the History Channel.' For one, they are NOT HISTORY BUFFS because history buffs talk about HISTORY, which they DONT! Also if they are supposed to be smart, why are they saying 'right on bro.' Intelligence people dont refer themselves by calling each other 'bro's'. So Clancy, get your stuff right, and stop writing this crap!	2004-03-11
US	26771740	RLXFFJ0TI4FX6	0446532452	935112124	The Wedding	Books	5	0	2	N	N	A beautiful novel...	The Wedding by Nicholas Sparks is a beautiful tale of love lost, and love regained. The story is about Wilson, a middle aged man who has a busy schedule at work and has not been there for his family. So when Wilson misses his aniversarry, he feels like he has to make up for the past; he then takes off two weeks from work, and he finds out that his daughter Anna is getting married. So with his two weeks off, he talks to her and he spends time with her and he slowly rebuilds the romance with her. So with the help from Noah (from The Notebook, and Jane's father), he then fixes Noah's house to have the wedding there, and to give Jane a surprise, he then brings her back to the house where it is all fixed up, and they make love for the first time in almost two years. <br />The ending is surprising, but very good. The book starts out SLOW, but give it some time, and you are caught into the web of love lost and love regained.	2004-03-05
US	26771740	R1B7AIFS0NLDF2	1575660008	337795008	Broken Child	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Definitely a disturbing story, but yet very good	I discovered The Broken Child when I was in the 11th grade, and I started it and was shocked that this woman went through these trials with her mother. It is a autobiography about a woman who's mother was racist against her own daughter; she hated her from child birth. She would not even look at her own daughter because her mom was anti-semantic. She said this when she first saw her \\"That is not my child, that is a Jewish child!\\" Her mother abused her beyond anything I have ever heard of; she pumped a broom stick into her vagaina while screaming \\"Now I am going to teach how to use your Jewish c*nt!\\" She was locked in a closet while her father worked, and her mother abused her whenever she got the chance, but when her father was at home, she treated her like she was a princess.<br /> While in the closet, she developed split-personalities and became these personalities when she was put in there, and she saw them as her friends. Eventually she told the truth to her father, and her father divorced her and got joint custody of her and her brothers who were not abused as her. Then her father died in a plane accident and she had to go live back with her mother. As she got older, her mother eventually died, but she left her with emotional scars and physical scars. One of her personalities named Lucy was a s*ut; she would go out every night (her personalities), and would have sex with men she just met, then she would wake up wondering where she was and discovered semen between her legs, and would cry her eyes out.<br /> Eventually she got married, but when she was touched a certain way; she would freeze up like a statue because it remined her of the past. She had kids, but she still had the mental scars with her. She then got some help, but she discovered new memories that she never thought she had, and this made her more depressed and almost on the verge of suicide. As she got older, she then realized that she had to get over this, so she got more help and eventually got rid of the personalities and discovered her surroundings; her kids, her husband, and she found a new lease on life, and she discovered how to live life without the scars still on her mind.<br />I am sorry if I offended anybody, but what I said in this book is explained in this novel. This novel has changed my life forever, and it should be read with a open mind, and also it makes you think that this woman went through this, but yet she was able to come up in the world and to have a family of her own. It can be very inspirational but yet VERY sad.of the personalities and discovered her surroundings; her kids, her husband, and she found a new lease on life, and she discovered how to live life without the scars still on her mind. <br />I am sorry if I offended anybody, but what I said in this book is explained in this novel. This novel has changed my life forever, and it should be read with a open mind, and also it makes you think that this woman went through this, but yet she was able to come up in the world and to have a family of her own. It can be very inspirational but yet VERY sad.	2004-03-05
US	26771740	R2YA428CRT0UDV	0451194861	511631376	Wizard and Glass: Dark Tower IV	Books	5	0	3	N	N	A damn good novel, although it is a step back in the series	Dark Tower 4: Wizard and Glass by Stephen King is good, but not the best in the series (that would go to Dark Tower 3: The Wastelands). Anyway, Wizard and Glass starts off where Dark Tower 3 left off: Roland, Jake, Eddie, and Susannah on Blane speeding 800 MPH and ready to commit suicide with them aboard, and the only way for the hero's to escape is to give Blane a riddle he cant solve! So now as time rushes on, Roland and his ka-tet are stumped, and now Eddie is the only one left to give him a riddle that he cannot solve. Of course this works, and Blane crashes, but they escape with no harm. The ka-tet then enter Kansas, but this Kansas has been wiped out with a killer virus, the freeway is packed with cars with dead bodies in them (remind of you something King fans?). So now on the side of the freeway, Roland then tells his ka-tet his tale of long lost love.<br /> Susan Delango is her name, and she is going to marry the Mayor of this western town in Gilead; it is a post-Apocalytic town where oil is useless and people use horses for transportation. Roland and his ka-tet (not Jake, Eddie, or Susannah), but Allan and Colbert. Roland is just 14 and he settles in Gilead. As the story moves on, Roland catches Susan's eye, but the Mayor and Susan's aunt want her to have the Mayor's baby. Susan's aunt is obessed with this glass where she can see people doing what people do behind closed doors. She is obessed with the glass (like Gollum was obessed with the ring in the Lord Of The Rings triology), but she hides it away from Susan. Eventually Roland and Susan fall in love, and of course they have each other sexually. Allan and Colbert get jealous because they think that she is trying to break their ka-tet. Then in the oil fields, the man in black (Randal Flagg) is trying to start a civil war, and he is taking the oil to use for weapons. So now Roland and his ka-tet head to the oil fields, they blow it up, and Susan get's her hands on the ball. Susan then gives the ball to Roland and he uses it to his advantage and try to figure out what Randall Flagg is doing. Eventually Susan is taking to town and is burned at the stake, and her last words are \\"ROLAND I LOVE THEE!\\" Roland watches her burn at the stake through the ball. Then Roland smashes the ball so no one can use the power of the ball again. So now we enter back to Roland's world where we begin off. Now they set off to the Path Of The Beam where they run into Randal Flagg again telling his ka-tet that they should stop now for the quest of the Dark Tower. They then tell him no, and so once they are back where they were, and they head to the Path Of The Beam.<br />Wizard and Glass is a good novel, long, but it is still worth reading if you got the time and also the patience to go through this whole novel. Keep up the good work King.	2004-03-04
US	26771740	R27Y2N2QJJTR84	0345337662	494921316	Interview with the Vampire	Books	1	3	27	N	N	Oh Come on people!	Interview With the Vampire is just outright HORRIBLE! This was my first shot at Anne Rice, and it was my last. A friend told me about Anne Rice, and I did finish Interview With The Vampire (which took me six months because I was so lost and disquisted with the story), it left a bad taste in my mouth just finishing it. The story goes around Louis; an aristocrat during the 19th century. He then runs into Lestat; a vampire who has live for a long time. So Lestat bite's him and turns him into a vampire because this was something he really wanted. So now as they spend time together, Louis then goes through the years as a vampire feeding and eventually converting a little girl named Claudia which they raise has their own. Eventually Louis and Lestat go their seperate as Louis tries to kill him for reasons I dont understand and I clearly dont give a s*it about. Now we are in present San Francisco, the interview is over, and the reporter leaves the building with the tapes in hand. Over. <br /> So why did I give this novel 1 star? Because Anne Rice babbles on and on about emotions, and about living the vampire life. I dont care if they had a bad day or what, vampires are supposed to be scary and hideous blood suckers, not these former humans to be soft or anything. Trust me people, there are sooooo many great novels out there than this crap. Read Salems' Lot or The Stake by Richard Laymon.	2004-03-03
US	26771740	R1CODBL0JNOH50	0385424736	511419057	The Rainmaker	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Definitely up there with The Firm and The Pelican Brief	The Rainmaker by John Grisham is a very exciting novel. I read it in the span of two days because I could not put it down. The story goes around a young lawyer named Rudy; a young lawyer who just passed his bar exam, and stressed out with the bill collectors. So now, he takes a case against a huge medical coverage company because they did not live up to the promise of one of their clients; he eventually died from lung cancer, and they didnt come through with the money to pay for the doctor bills. So now, they hire a huge law coporation to take the case. Now Rudy is over his head, but he wants to win this case because this could make him or break him in his law career. While the case moves forward, he meets what John Grisham calls 'a ambulance chase' and they start taking cases from other people, and Rudy still working on the medical case. Then Rudy meets a woman who is being abused by her boyfriend, so Rudy falls for and protects her from him. Now as the medical case moves along, eventually Rudy wins the case of $50 million dollars in grivence pay and medical bills. Rudy is happy winning his first case. Now he then finds out that the medical insurance went bankrupt and the family and Rudy would not see a penny coming their way. So now, with a old Volvo (it has I believe 130,000 miles on it, correct me if I am wrong), he then leaves the small firm he had with his buddy of his, and his new girlfriend and get out of town. <br />The Rainmaker I thought was a good book, I have not read all of Grisham's novels, but the few i did read (The Rainmaker is one of them), I felt like the man can write a good tale. I cant really call myself a huge Grisham fan, but I like his writing. Anyway, good book and definitely worth reading.	2004-03-03
US	26771740	R2G0OXIKLBEBNQ	0385504209	315416156	The Da Vinci Code	Books	4	2	5	N	N	Good start....but loses steam toward the end.	The Davinci Code is a damn good novel, but I felt there were holes in the plot, but it was still a damn good novel. Now everyone and their mother has heard about The Davinci Code, and now I am not going to spoil it, but I am going to talk about some of the good points and bad points in this novel.<br /> The novel starts out with a murder by an albano man inside a Paris museum. Now Robert Landgon, a lecturer and a writer who wrote a novel based on Davici's paintings is then called in by the French police since he was supposed to be the last person to see Robert Landgon alive. So they take him to the murder scene, and a French dectective named Falis starts asking him questions about the murder, but what Robert does not know that he is considered a suspect in the murder of Jaques (the man who was murdered). So now comes in Sophie, a cryptologist which someone left a code, and she can not figure it out, but she has a hinch about it. So now, she tells Robert that they are tracking him and that they have him as a prime suspect. So now as a way to escape, Robert and Sophie throw out the GPS tracking device out the window into this passing truck, and the French Police go after of what they think is Landon. So now as they escape, things start to unravel in this tale. As they move forward, it turns out that Landon finds out that Sophie's grandfather Jaques (who was murdered) because he was in a secret society which they know where the holy grail rests! So now, they find this poem that links to where they can find the grail. Now, they head to the country side of France to a good friend of Robert's. He then tells him that in the secret society; Sir Issac Newton, Victor Hugo, and Leonarado DaVinci along with Sophie's grandfather Jaques. Sophie then figues out the code where her grandfather left her on the floor. It turns out that it is the bank code in this bank vault in a Swedish bank. So they get the rosewood box which would lead them to the holy grail. So now, as the story moves around, it gets good, but by the end, it just falls flat.<br />I am not going to spoil the end because I want people to make their own decision. So if you want to read it, then read it, but read it with a open mind because some of the things in this book are going to think, and maybe even mad at Dan Brown for saying some things. Good, but I have read better thrillers with better endings: The Sum Of All Fears by Tom Clancy is one of them.es around, it gets good, but by the end, it just falls flat. <br />I am not going to spoil the end because I want people to make their own decision. So if you want to read it, then read it, but read it with a open mind because some of the things in this book are going to think, and maybe even mad at Dan Brown for saying some things. Good, but I have read better thrillers with better endings: The Sum Of All Fears by Tom Clancy is one of them.	2004-03-02
US	26771740	R1T3NR016TRUAA	0380808161	956907706	Infiltrator (T2)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	It's ok.....	T2 Infiltrator starts out SLOW...It takes just a hour after John and his mother Sarah escape from the metal factory. So now, they head to South America to lay low and train and get prepared for what is ever throw their way. Then Skynet sends another T-800, but not to kill John or Sarah, but to protect Skynet from John and Sarah. So now as the story moves along, we then meet Dieter; a agent in South America where he is signed to capture Sarah and John because they are the most wanted individuals on earth; they are considered terrorist, and the U.S. wants them BAD! <BR> Now the T-800 then gets a job at Cyberdyne as a security personel. By day she works at Cyberdyne, but at night, she is constructing other T-800's in order to kill John and Sarah. As Dieter gets to know Sarah and John, he gets locked into their struggle, and joins them on their fight against Skynet. Then just when they at least expected it, a T-800 is sent down to South America to kill John and Sarah. It failed. So now, they head back to Los Angeles to finish off Skynet for good. We then meet Enrigue again, she gets her guns, and they go out fighting. The ending is great, but I just wish that the book did not start out slow. Good book, but not a classic.	2004-03-02
US	26771740	RJLMAKMCBQCDX	0613222407	626650351	Rainbow Six (Turtleback School & Library Binding Edition)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Judge it for yourself...	Rainbox Six is a damn good novel. Sure Clancy messed up on some things; (like when he called latin women latino. No, they are called Latina's, men are called Latino), and definitely when Clancy refer's to the English as &quot;chap's&quot; no, they call each other &quot;mates&quot;. The book starts out great: a high-jacking of a plane. The book stars John Clark: Ex-Navy SEAL and former CIA agent. He leaves the CIA to head to England and start a secret anti-terrorist organization called RAINBOW. Along side is his partner in crime Domingo Chavez (who from previous novels have done some things most men like myself dream about), so now as they get down the terrorist, they then set up shop, and they are headed to their first mission; a bank robbery gone bad in Switzerland. RAINBOW is made up of the best of the best; they come from Germany, France, England, and the U.S. So then the team gets there, they kill the terrorist and they go home and train some more. <BR> Now in America, a team of scientist are working on a virus which they want to wipe out human existence for good so that mother earth can repair herself from human destruction. Now comes in former KGB agent Popov. He see's what RAINBOW can do, and is very interesting on how they plan and move with stealth precision and able to get the job done. Eventually they are called to more jobs; terrorist take over a theme park killing a disabled child, and terrorist invade the house of a important diplomact in Romania. Eventually the tree-huggers kill enough people to see if the virus works; it does. So now, in order for it to do it dirty work, they send it to Australia which they have the maintenance guys installing a cooling system there so that the virus can spread and they can pass it. So now, they find out who did this, and while before this is happening, terrorist take out a London hospital where Sandy (John's wife) and Patsey Chavez (Ding's wife) are doctors there, and Patsey is pregnant with Ding's child. So now, Ding use's his street mentality on one of the terrorist and he cracks. So now, as Popov finds out what the scientist are doing since he knows one of the men in charge, he then escapes and tells the U.S. government what is going on, and it goes back to RAINBOW. They then find out where they went: the Amazon jungle. So now RAINBOW heads there, and takes them out. <br />the novel is good, but some people might not like it because it has a lot of action, and some people might find the ending boring, but so what? It is good, so to all the haters out there, dont hate on Clancy, only hate him for writing Red Rabbit and The Teeth Of The Tiger.	2004-03-02
US	26771740	R1VM2AXKE2RFSF	039915079X	700072898	The Teeth of the Tiger (Jack Ryan Novels)	Books	1	2	5	N	N	What happen Clancy?	The Teeth Of The Tiger is about Jack Jr. and his cousins Brian and Dominac. Brian, a former Marine, who was fighting in Afghanistan, and his brother Dominac, a FBI agent, and Jack Jr. join this secret covert agency called 'The Campus'. Now, in Europe, a man named Mohammed is setting up talks with Colobian drug lords and his terrorist friends to attack America where it hurts. The terrorist then join the drug lords, and they help them get through the U.S. and Mexican border, and a car to head to Washington D.C. to kill. <BR> Now as Brian and Dominac train, they decide to go to the mall to get some new shoes, and that is where they discover the terrorist killing innocent civilians, eventually they are killed themselves, and now Jack Jr. Brian and Dominac head to Europe to kill the main terrorist. <br />That is the whole story. The story is BORING, but it only gets good when Brian and Dominac are faced against the terrorist. The book read's like a A+ certification book; dry and boring unless you like fixing PC's. Books should be fun Clancy, not boring like this. Also there is no ending? WHAT you say? The ending ends with the terrorist dead, usually this ends with a climax ending, but there is was none! NONE! Dont read this junk, read something better.	2004-03-01
US	26771740	RDD1P9Z9HIG5G	0399131493	34724671	Red Storm Rising	Books	5	2	2	N	N	WW3 told in story form....	Red Storm Rising starts out with muslim men blowing up a oil/gas factory in the former U.S.S.R., and now due to the damage, the hard-line high power Soviet leaders now have to make a decision; let the Soviet economy come to it's knee's, or take out NATO and invade the Middle East for their oil? Destroy NATO and her allies and invade the Middle East. So now, as the Soviet military head's to war, they then plan to get everything in order in 4 months to fight NATO. As the story goes along, we meet Bob Toland; a US Navy captain who is fighting against the Soviet's for their bid for the Middle East. The battles take place in Iceland, and the Baltic sea thanks to submarines. <BR> As the battle get's fiercer, the Soviet's think they have NATO done, but things take a turn for them, and they are being swept back to mother Russia and away from the Middle East. Then in a huge battle to end the war, the Soviet's then back away from their strong holds, and are driven back to their own lines. Eventually WW3 is over, and the Soviet's take a serious defeat. <br /> Red Storm Rising is a very interesting novel, although the Soviet Union is long gone, the book still holds it place as one of the best war novels out there. Also, not only do NATO take a beating, the Soviet's take a beating also, winning some, losing some. A great novel, and definitely one of my favorites.	2004-03-01
US	26771740	R2JEZ6U771ZMAJ	0425122123	629388832	Clear and Present Danger (A Jack Ryan Novel)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Some problems...but good overall	Clear And Present Danger starts out with the Coast Guard finding three top American officials killed on their yacht, and the men charged with the murder are from the Cali Drug Cartel in Columbia, so to get back at the Cali Cartel, the President then prepares a secret covert operation of selected Special Forces to bring back justice to the Cartel. Jack Ryan comes back into the picture, with Admiral James Greener dying of cancer, and now he is left in charge as DDI of the CIA, but Jack does not know about the covert operation in Columbia, since they dont want Jack to intervere in the operations. So comes in Domingo Chavez, a East L.A. Chicano who turn his life around by joining the U.S. Army and becoming a Ranger, and now he is the selected person to go to Columbia to fight the drug lords. <BR> Now as they get ready to train for the operation, Jack has NO IDEA what is going on, but he knows that something is not right, and they are keeping quiet about the operation. As they arrive to Columbia, John Clark is running the operation and in charge of the whole thing. Jack and John Clark know each other from rescusing CARDINAL (a U.S. spy in the Kremlin) and bringing him to America where he lives in exile. <BR> Now one of the Cali Cartel's men brings in a woman who works for the CIA and has top secret information about the operation, and finds out that one of the top men who is running the operation is going to Columbia, so his men sets up a ambush and attacks their convoy. Now, the operation gets more intense where they bomb the drug lord's house, and it makes it look like a car bomb. Now, as the Cali Drug Cartel finds out what is going on, they now are hunting them in the thick forests of Columbia thanks to the Columbian military which he has complete control of thanks to money. Jack Ryan then finds out what is going on, and now the covert operation is dead, and they are leaving the men in Columbia on their own. Jack then goes down to Columbia to rescue the men from the hidden dangers the Cali drug cartel has to offer. Now Jack rescues the men, and the President lost the election, and now President Fowler is in office, so now Jack has a new boss, along with a new enemy: Elizabeth Elliot; the National Security Advisor who hates Jack with a passion. <br />The book starts out slow, but it is still worth a good read to get into.	2004-02-26
US	26771740	RUJAEBDG5WM35	0870212850	853466247	The Hunt for Red October: A Novel	Books	5	0	1	N	N	To correct a fellow reviewer....	The Hunt For Red October by Tom Clancy is his first novel, and without a doubt his best. Deep in the Atlantic ocean, a Soviet sub lurkes heading west, and with the help of a Catapiller engine, it now lurks with silence. Captain Marko Ramius of the Soviet Navy kills one of his men, and claims that he fell from spilling tea. The reason he head's west is not only to give the good old U.S. of A. a little hello, but to escape the harsh life of the Soviet Union, and also what the state did to his father; sending him to war and eventually dying on the battlefield.<BR> So now comes in Jack Ryan, who is just a analyst of the CIA, and he spots October, and the engine, but he does not know what kind of engine it is, but he has a hunch that they are going to try to attack America. So now the chase is on to find the Red October, get on it, and take it away from the the Soviet Union. <br />To correct a fellow reviewer, he told another reviewer that the Ryan books go in order from Without Remorse, Patriot Games, and The Hunt For Red October. Close, but no cigar. The books go like this; Without Remorse, Patriot Games, Red Rabbit, and The Hunt For Red October.	2004-02-26
US	26771740	RV3ZUZ6L5AQBM	0385504209	503118391	The Da Vinci Code	Books	5	0	5	N	N	A Very Great Thriller!!!!	The DaVinci Code....Everybody and their mother has read this book, or have heard about it. The DaVinci Code starts out with a murder! The murder is done by a albano man named Silas who is looking for what Jaques knows; about a sacared item that has been looked for thousands of years! Now comes in Robert Langdon, a Harvard teacher who is in Paris for a lecture about Leonard DaVinci, and now he is led to the muder scene in a famous art museum, and there is a message left by Jaques:<br />              13-3-2-21-1-1-8-5<BR>             O, Draconian devil!<BR>              Oh, lame saint!<br />Now, the Paris Police call in Sophie, a cryptologist who is called in to break the code, but to no luck, she cant. So Sophie wants Robert to call the American Embassy, and warning him that he is in grave danger. So Robert heads to the bathroom, and Sophie tells him that the Paris Police has him as the MURDER SUSPECT! Also they are keeping him tracked by a GPS device, so Sophie takes the device, puts it on a bar of soap, and throws it into a truck outside the window. So now the chase is on, also there was another message that the Paris Police cleaned up: P.S. Find Robert Landon. It also turns out that Jaques is Sophie's grandfather, and also a member of a secret society with members of Leonard DaVinci, Sir Issac Newton, Galieo, and the list goes on. Also they discover that this secret society knows where the Holy Grail is! Now the chase is on to find a hidden code in Leonardo DaVinci's work, and in his work is the destination of the Holy Grail, also they are not the only people looking for the Grail; Silas and a preacher he calls The Teacher. Now not only are they surrounded by this mystery, but they are also against time to find one of History's greatest treasurers!	2004-02-24
US	26771740	R3MFT8Q92IIGYZ	0446532231	628954405	Dude, Where's My Country?	Books	5	6	12	N	N	A Very Funny and Liberal view of Bush's America....	Michael Moore is pissed, why? Because we live in a fictionous time, and we have a fictionous President who sent us into a fictionous war. Michael Moore points out on 9/11 when the all commercial planes were grounded, why was the Bin Laden's FLOWN back to Saudi Arabia and had the Air Force make sure that they didnt get hit or anything? Did you know that Bush as governor of Texas, that he made a deal with the Taliban through his oil company? He wanted to run a pipeline through Afghanistan, Pakistan, and Central Asia to Turkey for natural gas? Also he wanted to give $100 million dollars to the Taliban for the construction of the pipeline? Also do you know that the Saudi Prince call Bush 'Badbar Bush'? Also here are a couple of things that some conservatives said about 9/11: 'We need to invade their countries and convert them to Christinary.' Ann Coulter<BR> WHAT? Is this a crazy woman like it says on her braclet? I dont know. Also it talks about how the conservatives say that due to the lack of approval of France over the war in Iraq, and how like they should do this and that, but are Conservatives stupid? It was the French that helped us fight off the English during the Revolutionary war, it was also the French who trained the Colonial soldiers to shoot, and how to fight in battle. So how can the conservatives be so pissed off? Because they know that liberials are the big head right now, and they are tired of seeing the Liberals having all the control.<br />Michael Moore then goes into how big coporations are getting HUGE tax cuts, while people who pay little or no taxes get NOTHING! Just 3 dollars or a little more, while Michael Moore got more than $10,000,000 on tax cuts. So what does Mike do? He is going to make the people decide to how to spend his tax cut money. Michael Moore goes into a lot of detail about how the Saudi royals are running the country, and how they are friends with us because we just want their oil, and also while they kill their own citizens inpublic executions. The book gets very interesting from page one, and he is funny. Read this book if you are a liberal, and screw the Consertivies!	2004-02-24
US	26771740	R1C5R4PQZCTT4I	0393039765	311054036	Fight Club	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Very Unique Novel......	Fight Club is a very unique novel. Chuck Palaniuk wrote a very unique novel with Fight Club, the narrator is mysterious, but he tells us about this individual who goes to meetings faking illnesses, and goes across the country until he meet Tyler. Him and Tyler then go to restaurants doing some sick things to soup to high-class people, and yet they both create this club in bars called Fight Club. The first rules of Fight Club, no one talks about Fight Club, the second rules of Fight Club, no one talks about Fight Club, the third rule is two men to a fight and with no shoes and shirts. So the narrator goes along with his life working in this boring office setting, and as Fight Club starts to grow, so does another club involving follwers who make soap and sell it to stores with human fat. Now the narrator meets Helen, one of the people in his groups, Tyler befriends her, and they make love a lot. Now Fight Club is HUGE, and it is national, and the FBI starts to shut down Fight Club in Portland Oregon, but still the men keep on fighting. Now as the book moves along, (sorry I am going to spoil this for everyone, if you dont want to know the ending, then dont read the rest of this review) the narrator starts to see Tyler's followers shaking his hand, and just happy to see him, but he does not know that when he sleeps he is Tyler! Tyler is a split-personality that the narrator has! Now the narrator tries to shut down Fight Club, but to no prevail, and Helen dumps him, and now in his office building, his follwers are burning paper, and throwing office desks and cabinets through the building. Now the narrator has a gun in his mouth, and Helen tries to stop him, but is unlucky. The novel ends with him going to heaven meeting Peter. <br />This is my first Chuck Palahniuk novel, and I loved it from page one. I thought this was the most orginal novel of the last decade. A keeper for this constant reader's library.	2004-02-18
US	26771740	R1P4OO5DF03FNL	0440214041	859359548	The Pelican Brief	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Not your usual legal thriller.....	The Pelican Brief by John Grisham is by far THE BEST JOHN GRISHAM novel I have read so far. The Pelican Brief starts out with the deaths of two Supreme Court judges, who get assassinated by a mysterious assassin named Khamel. Now law student Darby Shaw takes a shot in the dark and writes a brief on who killed the two Supreme Court judges. Now once she finishes it, she then gives it to her lover and professor to read it, then the FBI get their hands on it, and also the President who is intrigued by this little brief. <BR> Now as the brief gets around, Darby's professor is killed by a car bomb which was intended for him and her! But she escapes thanks to his drunken state. Now she is on the run, and the killers want her dead at any cost. Then she runs into a Washington Post writer, and they get into contact. She tells him about the brief and joins the hunt for a mysterious man named &quot;Garcia&quot; who works for this huge firm in D.C. <BR> Now escaping death many times, Darby then finds out who &quot;Garcia&quot; really is, they then discover the whole thing, and they report it in print, and now everyone is going down; including some of the President's men. Why did the huge firm want the Supreme Court judges dead? Simple. It was a case that involved a case involving the marshlands, and oil, the firm wanted to win the case, but they knew that they were going to lose if it went to the Supreme Court, so they hired a trained assassin to kill the two judges so if they can be replaced with two new judges. Interesting? I thought so.	2004-02-17
US	26771740	R3IPANMJYPQU04	0451169530	825352881	The Stand: Expanded Edition: For the First Time Complete and Uncut (Signet)	Books	5	2	4	N	N	My favorite King novel of all time, next being IT!	The Stand by Stephen King was ORGINALLY released by Doubleday in 1978 and it was 816 pages long, The Stand was rereleased in 1991 complete and uncut, but the orginial manuscipt was 1200 pages long, now The Stand is not 1200 pages long, but just 1,153 pages long. The Stand takes place in Nevada after a deadly virus is released, one of the watchguards then grabs his wife and two kids, and get out of dodge. But they are too late. In Texas, we run into Stu Redman and the local crew hanging out at the local gas station, and they see the soldier driving, and he crashes into the pumps, the soldier is sick, and his wife and kids are dead. He is then taken to the hospital where he dies before he reaches there. In Maine, we run into Fran Goldsmith who is pregnant with her boyfriends child, and she does not want his kid, so they break up. Now we meet Nick Andros, a deft-mute, but he can read lips, he gets attacked by the local bad boys and is rescused by the local sheriff. In New York, we meet Larry Underwood, a up and coming singer who has a hit single called 'Baby Can You Dig Your Man?' to escape the horrors back in California; drugs, parties, and drinking where he can clean himself up. Soon, the virus spreads thanks to travlers crossing the country when they stop to get gas at the station where the dead soldier crashed into the pumps. Soon the country goes into chaos, and two sides eventually come together in this chaos. The highways are crowded with dead drivers trying to escape the death of the big cities, and soon the world is wiped out, but the suriviors who survive face a new terror: the devil's imp who goes by the name of Randal Flagg, he gets his followers together in Las Vegas, and while Mother Abagaible who the other side of the survivors see in their dreams. So they meet up with Mother Abagaible and they head to Boulder Colorado. <BR> Now, while they know the two exists, one of the followers goes bad and plants a bomb into a apartment trying to kill everyone wherethey are heading a meeting to restablish the Bill Of Rights and the Constitution, so one of the followers head to Vegas to take Flagg down. <br />The Stand is by far THE BEST STEPHEN KING novel he has written in his 30 year career, the only best novel that can reach The Stand is IT. So dont be intimidated by the length of this novel, this novel would read through a breeze, and it very good. Defintely one of my favorite novels of all time, one of the being American Psycho, The Rules Of Attraction, The Rainmaker, The Firm, IT, The Cardinal Of The Kremlin, Patriot Games, and the list goes on. Read it, and you wont regret it.	2004-02-12
US	26771740	R1DO9OGLHQOA65	067978148X	645048612	The Rules of Attraction	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A Very Unique Novel....	The Rules Of Attraction by Bret Easton Ellis, is his second novel, and definitely one of my favorites (the other being American Psycho). The story evolves around Sean Bateman, (Patrick Bateman's brother, the sick and demented character in American Psycho) Lauren, a girl who changes boyfriends as she changes majors, Paul, a bi-sexual who has the hots for Sean, and other guys around the college. It is set in New England during the Regan 80's. They spend their time getting drunk, doing drugs, and having sex. Yet, these characters are unlikable, they dont have a clue what they want to do in their future, or the present. They barely go to class, and that is all they do. What makes this book so good? The writing that Bret Easton Ellis does in this novel. This novel brings back the 80's; full of drugs, sex, and music, and it pokes fun at it. The novel is very entertaining, and yet very unique in many ways. The novel tells us about these slackers who rather have sex and get drunk, and yet they dont have a single clue of what they want to do with their lives. One of the thing that Ellis does not make us feel sorry for them, which is very different from other writers out there; James Patterson, Stephen King, John Grisham, Tom Clancy, and the list goes on. A very unique novel by one of the finest modern writers of our time.	2004-02-11
US	26771740	R1T134YG16W9O3	043956834X	699558690	Goosebumps	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A scary book if your 10 or 12...or even 7!	Then of course I read this book a long time ago when I was 11, and I loved it from page one. The book is about a little girl named Wendy; a non-altletic girl who ends up in a strange camp after the trailer gets unattached from their parents van, and now they end up in a strange camp where everyone is competive, and the counselors are strange acting. Now the strange thing about it was this: her parents dont see the trailer get un-attached, but hey this is a R.L. Stine book, so what do you expect? I thought so. Now as she spends more time at the camp, kids start to disapper, and the counselors go into the woods every night like they are in a cult or something, and Wendy discovers the horrible truth! <BR> The book is good, but now when I look back at it, I think that it could of been better, but it was good no matter what. I am 20 and now when I got the chance to reread it, I was laughing because R.L. Stine tries to be the kid version of Stephen King without the cursing or brutal horror that King adds to his novels. So kids if you are reading this, once you get older, read some Stephen King, and trust me, you wont be disappointed.	2004-02-02
US	26771740	R1PJ79J0HFITPM	0399138250	685045441	Without Remorse	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The mysterious background of John  Kelly (Codename: Clark)	Without Remorse is without a doubt ONE OF MY FAVORITE CLANCY NOVELS! John Kelly (Codename: Clark) is a CIA analyist and former Navy SEAL. Now this his is younger days working for the CIA back in the 60's during the war in Nam, and he did some secret covert missions for the CIA. Clark picks up a prostitute named Pam, and Clark befriends her since she has no family, and she tells Clark about what the pushers do to her and this is how she makes her money, so with anger flowing through his blood, Clark is ambushed by the pushers in the ghetto, and Pam is taken from the jeep and is tortured and beaten. Now with Pam dead, John decides to get back at them by bringing them war, since they asked for it, and they got it. <BR> Now with John fighting the pushers, John befriends Sandy, a doctor at the local hospital for Pam, and they become close, and she does not know what John is doing since he keeps it quiet. Now John is sent to North Vietnam to rescue a down F-14 Tomcat fighter pilot being held prisoner by the North Vietnamese and the Soviets. So with the pushers put on the side, he goes to Nam and he does what he has to do, and he gets out. He then comes back to America, and killing al of the pushers who had the hand in killing Pam, he now confronts the main gun in the drug pin, so he gets his revenge, and joins the CIA, so with the pushers dead, and the police on him for murders of the other pushers he killed earlier, the cops are on his tale, and Emmit Ryan (Jack Ryan's father) is on the case, and now it has gone cold, but he has a suspect: John Kelly. So with the help of the CIA, they faked John's death and they give him a new name; John Clark. <br />The novel is very exciting, and this is a must read for any new of old Tom Clancy fan out there. Ignore his new stuff with caution, just stick to The Hunt For Red October to Rainbow Six.	2004-01-26
US	26771740	R12FTFP8WP382K	0425147584	145288617	Debt of Honor (A Jack Ryan Novel)	Books	5	4	8	N	N	A little bit unrealistic with the war with Japan....	But still a great read. The book goes around a Japanese businessman with a lot of power and money. Now Jack comes back into the picture, two years off of retirement and now he is asked by President Durling to come back as his National Secutiry Advisor, Jack takes the offer and goes ahead with the plan. <BR> In Japan, businessmen who hate America for what it has done to their country rages them, and when a accident killing an American family thanks to their tires gives them more patrotic duty to their country, and the U.S. bans all of the tires made in Japan, so with this the businessmen decide to bring back imperilism by kidnapping the Prime Minister, and by ordering the invasion of American terrority in the Pacific gain by the U.S. in WW2. Now the U.S. is locked in a word battle with Japan with American citizens on these islands, they fear that they are in danger, and so comes in John and Ding Chavez, and they head to Japan and they attempt to rescue Koga from the men. So while the battle with Japan begins, Koga is rescued and he calls off the fighting with the U.S.<BR> Now as things start to cool down, back home Vice President Ed Kealthy is resigning the Vice Presidency because of a sex scandal some years ago, and President Durling ask Jack to hold the seat of Vice President for only a year until President Durling's term is up, Jack takes the offer since him and Jack are good friends dating back to the secret operations in Columbia to fight the drug lords for killing three American operatives. <BR> Back in Japan, Admiral Sato then flies a plane to America, while taking a break, he then stabs his co-pilot saying 'sorry my friend.' after stabbing him. No passengers are on board, and back in Washington Jack is beginning to be sworn in as Vice President with the Supreme Court, Congress is full, and everyone in the political game is there to see Jack take the oath. <BR> Now as Jack is sworn in, President Durling is talking to Congress while Sato dives a plane into thechambers of Congress. Killing all of Congress, the Supreme Court judges, the President and the first lady along with his secret service agents assigned to President Durling. Now through the wreckage, while being Vice President for only a couple of minutes, Jack is now President Of The United States of America, and he has a huge disaster on his hands with most of Congress dead, the Supreme Court dead, and the President dead leaving Jack Patrick Ryan the most powerful man in the world. <br />This is definitely a GOOD book to read if you are a Clancy fan like myself. The book does talk a lot about the world financial market a lot, but hey this is Tom Clancy we are talking about, he has to know what he is talking about, and he is good at it. <BR> What made me think twice about this ending, the plane crashing into a building especially like the WTC, did Usama Bin Laden read Debt Of Honor, and got the idea of crashing a plane into a building like 9/11 and in Debt Of Honor? We dont know, but a damn good ending, and kind of sad when you think about it. Great book, not just about the plane crashing, the whole story altogether.	2004-01-26
US	26771740	RY9XQ2AE2YU5R	0399132414	32944133	Patriot Games	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A Very Good novel by Tom Clancy	Patriot Games takes place years before The Hunt For Red October, and it involves a younger Jack Ryan, in Patriot Games, he is a history teacher at the Naval College in Maryland, but he took some vacation time in London, and he discovers terrorist trying to kill a passing motorcade, and Jack Ryan is right there witnessing it! So he brings into action, killing one of the terrorist, and getting shot himself, but he saved the people inside the car; it turns out it was the Prince of Wales with their newborn son!<BR> Now Jack has made some friends, and some enemies; a right-wing Northern Ireland terrorist organization from the IRA. Now the main bad guy Sean Miller is taken into British custody, and he is tried before a English court with Jack Ryan already into knighthood by the Queen of England, and he testifies against Sean Miller. So Jack heads back home to Maryland and goes back to work as a History Teacher at the Naval War College living his normal life. <BR> Jack has a couple of friends in the CIA business, but he wants to do what he loves to do; teach history. One of them happens to be Admiral James Greener, the main man in the CIA, and Captain Jackson, another friend of Jack's. But what Jack does not know, Sean is planning to get back at Jack by all means necessary, so when he is being transferred to another prison, and he escapes by his fellow right-wing terrorist's, and escapes. <BR> Now Jack finds out what happens, and he goes on with his life, but when Sean Miller comes to America and tries to kill Cathy and his daughter Sally on the freeway, Jack then decides to join the CIA as a analyst, and once he gets in, he is drawn into the world of the CIA. What Jack does not know, he knows that Sean Miller is out there, and he knows where to find Jack, he wants Jack dead because he kille his younger brother at the beginning of the book. Then at a dinner party, Sean Miller and his goons go to Jack's house, and they try to kill everyone, but they fail, and they try to make a run for it, but Jack and them get them, and kill them for what they were trying to do. <BR> The novel starts out boring, but it gets better and better once you reach the end, it is very exciting in the last 100 pages of the novel as the suspense builds up. Great book.	2004-01-23
US	26771740	R30IG4YJ6HCT64	0446610399	717558254	The Rescue	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Not his best but good nonetheless	The Rescue starts out with Denise, a young woman with a speech-delayed son Kyle, and they are driving along the freeway in a huge storm. Denise then loses control of her car, and goes off the road, and is saved by Taylor McAden: a volunteer fireman in a small North Carolina town who spots her by accident, then something horrible happens: Kyle is GONE into the swamps! <BR> Now Taylor and the fire department track down Kyle and eventually they find him safe but cold. <BR>Denise is taken to the hospital to be checked out for any injuries and treat her for hypothermia. As the book goes along, Denise and Taylor get to know each other a little more, Kyle loves Taylor and he teaches Kyle how to play baseball, with this relationship with her son, Denise starts to fall in love with Taylor, and is introduced to some good friends of Taylors: Mitch and Melissa. Now Taylor is a non-fearful guy, he is willing to rescue anyone in trouble no matter what the cost. Taylor has had a couple of relationships in the past, but in his own words, 'it never worked out' or 'we were totally two different people.'<BR> As the book goes on, Taylor and Denise grow into a relationship, but Taylor is secret about his past, and once it is brought up about what happen to his father, he does not want to talk about it. <BR> One day Denise wants to know what happen in his past that hurts him, eventually Taylor disappers out of the picture for a little while, and eventually Denise hears about his past relationships: Taylor falls in love, but once the woman is rescued, he is out of her life. Taylor has always wanted to help people and once they are rescused, then they are useless to him. Then out of love and compassion for Taylor, Denise and Taylor then have a long talk; about his past and why he always have to rescue someone then leave out of their lives. <BR> Taylor then tells the tale of how his father was a fireman, and the terrible tragedy of what happen. Taylor was in the attic playing with his toy soliders at night, and not sleeping, and he was too busy to notice the smoke coming from below, then when the fire started to spread, his parents called his name, but he never answered because he was afraid of getting into trouble. Taylor had a very close relationship with his father, and deeply loved the man. Taylor then see's his parents outside, and his father tries to rescue him, but he is killed by the flames but Taylor gets out ok. <BR> Because of this, Taylor believes that it is his fault because if he did not go into the attic and play with his soldiers, then his father would of still be alived. <BR> <br />This book is very heartwarming, and very good. It is good, but it is not his best, that would be A Walk To Remember. If you like Nicholas Sparks, and even if you never read any of his novels, read this one first and you will fall in love with his storytelling and how beautiful his stories really are.	2004-01-22
US	26771740	RT1ERY2JR24ZQ	1400050596	41924248	Whatever You Say I Am: The Life and Times of Eminem	Books	4	2	2	N	N	More on culture than Eminem	This book is more focused on the hip-hop culture than Eminem. It does have some history of Eminem, but not enough for hard-core Eminem fans like myself, since most Eminem fans out there already know about Eminem's life thanks to biorythem: the old MTV biography show, and also stories told by Emimem himself. <BR> It does follow Eminem to 8 Mile, and his struggles coming up into the rap world as a white MC, of course it was hard then, and for some it is still hard for some white MC's out there. <BR> Now Bozza explains about the history of hip-hop and the culture throughout the book, and this is a good book to read for anyone older who want to understand hip-hop culture for what it is, and also some stuff about the controversal rapper himself. Nothing really major since most hard-core Eminem fans know about their favorite MC. A somewhat good book, but I just wish Bozza contreated more on Eminem than the hip-hop culture itself.	2004-01-16
US	26771740	R2CU6B4ITI0ICV	1887281762	690167747	Access 2000 Essentials Course (Off to Work 2000)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Definitely good book to understand Access	Access 2000 Essential Course is a good book to learn Access, first it starts off with some basics of Access like file managing, and it gets into more deeper into more advance with buttons and tables. It breaks everything down so even a novice can understand Access, and it does not confuse you in any way possible. Access is a good program (and a plus) to have for work, and this book gives you the needs and skills to configure a lot of data into tables. A good book, and defintely worth getting for your Office training.	2004-01-15
US	26771740	R1N2CFYEVVR5BA	0898158915	407454496	The Resume Catalog: 200 Damn Good Examples	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A great resume book even for a novice like myself.	This book breaks down what makes a resume great; title, skills, and all the things you need to know on how to write a damn good resume is in this book. It covers everything from IT technician, to Administrative assistance. It gives you examples on how to go for the job, and get it on the spot, and shows what to put, and what not to put on a resume. <BR> This book is a definite get for anyone wondering on how to write a functional resume and make you feel like you are the king of the world. The books gives MANY examples for people who dont know how to write good resume's, and trust me it is HARD! <BR>This book takes your hand, and shows you that you can write a good resume, and it is great for someone who is looking for a job, but dont know how to write a good resume, this book is a MUST GET for a employer.	2004-01-15
US	26771740	R285EK3CXUELVL	0767905288	579302723	The O'Reilly Factor: The Good, the Bad, and the Completely Ridiculous in American Life	Books	5	4	9	N	N	A great book about the media and lies it tells!	I like Bill O'Reilly because he is a straight shooter, and he knows what he is talking about. He is this kind of guy that will tell it to you straight and not be all kiss-ass about it.  <BR> Bill's book talks about the wrongs of the media bashing celebrities and politicians: President Bush being one of them by CNN, MSNBC, ABC, and the list goes on, and very wrong on a lot of issues like the Iraq war. <BR> He also talks about how explicit rap lyrics are affecting our young culture, and how he came up, sort of like a little autobiography, and about the moral justice of American society and how it is affecting the young people, and all of us with tv showing explicit sex, and America's thirst for violence. This is a great book for someone who wants to get the low-down on the whole media thing, and also it gives a lot of good pointers in this book. Check it out, he's got a lot on his mind.	2004-01-13
US	26771740	R2SEGHYEPIMMG9	0446527793	332456280	The Guardian (Sparks, Nicholas)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Something different from the more romantic Sparks.	The Guardian by Nicholas Sparks is rather good, but it kind of has the twist like A Bend In The Road did. A lot of people I have told this novel about found the beginning to be slow, and things did not start to pick up until the middle of the book. The story goes around a widow named Julie, her husband died of cancer, and now she is alone, except for her dog Singer. She works in a hair salon, and is known around the town, her best friend Mike likes her a lot, but is afraid to come up to her and ask her out; he does not want to ruin a friendship with a relationship. Mike has known Julie for a long time, and have been friends for about five years. Then comes Richard, a handsome man from out of town who sweeps Julie off her feet. Now Mike is jealous, but he keeps his distance from Julie and Richard, and Richard has shown quite disquist with Mike, and Singer does not like Richard, since Singer does not like anyone who means harm to Julie or Mike. So as time goes by, Richard leaves town for some business, or so he says, then Mike makes his move. Soon, Julie and Mike are dating, Richard then comes back to town to discover the truth, at first he understands, then he gets VERY RUDE and dangerous with Julie. <BR> Now as Julie discovers the truth about Richard, now her life is on the line and so are her friends! It gets better once you reach the end, and this is a MUST READ for anyone who like a good thriller with some romance in the middle. A great treat.	2004-01-12
US	26771740	R1KKC8E6DU43EK	0446608955	721431789	A Walk to Remember	Books	5	0	0	N	N	What an amazing book!	A Walk To Remember by Nicholas Sparks was my first Nicholas Sparks novel, and was NOT MY LAST! I found this book to be very heartwarming, and very good. The story follows around Ben, now a middle-aged old man remembering the time back in the late 50's and how he fell in love with Jamie; a preachers daughter, and new to the town. Now Jamie is quiet, and keeps to herself, she is plain, but also she is a very beautiful person inside. At first Ben is assigned to do a scene with her for a school play, and they get to know each other, and they fall in love. <BR> As you get deeper into the book, they start to fall in love with each other deeper, and the book is just nothing short of amazing. Nicholas Sparks delivers how Ben just a normal boy and how Jamie changed Ben's life forever. I am not going to tell you the end, but it is very sad but it also delivers a message that love can come at whatever age, and still that person can still be there if he/she is gone forever, or just someone that moved away from you forever.	2004-01-12
US	26771740	R1SEJA1E2R2MWQ	0679735771	92932803	American Psycho	Books	5	0	1	N	N	A good book if you can get past the first 100 pages	When I first heard about this book from a friend, I immediately got it and started to read it. The first 100 pages I found BORING, but dont let the first 100 pages fool you about this novel. This is a VERY GOOD NOVEL, and Bret Easton Ellis goes into very deep detail about the killings of Patrick Bateman's murders. <BR> The story evolves in the first person view, I dont mind this at all, and the main character is Patrick Bateman, a handsome and intelligent man who works on Wall Street, by day he is a business man, but by night, he is a sadistic killer. He takes his killings very seriously, and is not to picky about killing his victims. Bret Easton Ellis goes into very deep and rich detail about the murders, and a recommedication of this book, it is not for the weak at heart, this book is bloody and very violent. <BR> There was one thing that I do not like about the book: character development and character background, Patrick Bateman goes around doing his usual business from working out, and talking to his friends from Wall Street. At night, that is when the novel gets juicy with the killings, call me a sadistic, but I love this novel, I think that this is a nove for any horror purest out there, although this is NOT A HORROR NOVEL, it is a novel of a person who is a normal person by day, and a killer by night. Good novel, and worth checking out.	2004-01-02
US	26771740	R2KOLJUQI2N1LR	0385007515	165977133	'Salem's Lot	Books	5	1	2	N	N	This novel puts other vampire novels to shame!	When I first read this novel a year ago, I swear to God that this novel gave me nightmares for a week. The story evolves around a small town called Jersalem's Lot, and vampires slowly take over the town! Now one of the so-called heros (Father Callan, he shows up in the Dark Tower Series) he gets out of dodge instead of facing the vampires at Marsten House. This novel depicts the town folks living their lives, and the characters seem very real, and the vampires are the coldless blood suckers that they are. <BR> The vampires are smart, and they are deadly, and man this novel is good. Now me being a HUGE Stephen King fan, this is the full-length of a short story he called of course 'Jersalems Lot', he published it in the early 70's before he wrote Carrie, it premiered in a old men's magazine called Cavelier and a lot of his short stories did too: Night Surf, The Lawnmover Man, and the list goes on. These two stories: Night Suft was then transform into The Stand, and The Lawnmover Man was made into a horrible movie and video game with Pierce Brosnan. <BR> Salems Lot is a MUST GET for any horror fan out there, this novel will scare the holy bejesus out of you, trust me.	2003-12-16
US	26771740	R2LNOK4SRJRR63	0345337662	494921316	Interview with the Vampire	Books	2	1	9	N	N	I didnt like it	'Interview With The Vampire' by Anne Rice, I found this novel as something I wish that I did not read, but I decided to read it, and personally she is a master of the vampire, but this novel was my only Anne Rice novel, and was my last. I found the story to be slow, there was a lot of human emotion in this book, but I am used to being scared by vampires (Salems Lot for example) and vampires are just supposed to kill, there are some scenes where they do feed, but vampires are not supposed to have emotion, they are supposed to be blood suckers who haunt at night, and terrorize the town like in Salem's Lot. <BR> I guess that I just have a different seeing on vampires. Anyway, the story follows around Lewis, a rich man in the 17 or 18 century, I cant remember, then he meets this vampire, and he turns into one, and he lives his life. The story takes place in two places in two different times: San Francisco, present, and New Orleans 17 or 18 century. <BR> Lewis lives his life like he was still human, but I found this book to be too full of nothing, there is nothing exciting in this book, it is just him talking, and talking, and talking. It gets real boring, REAL FAST! I dont know what people see in this novel, but then I am not a big fan of Anne Rice, and I never will be. I just think that I rather just stick to Stephen King's Salems Lot if I want a real good vampire novel.	2003-12-16
US	26771740	R299INXT3BZYP8	0743204735	660154931	Bush at War	Books	4	2	4	N	N	A Very interesting novel	Bush At War depicts the inside view of the Bush Administration after 9/11, Operation Enduring Freedom, and the beginning of the plans of Operation Iraqi Freedom. This novel is outright good, it brings the pure emotion of President Bush, Dick Cheny, Secretary Of State Colin Powell, Natonal Security Advisor Condoleeza Rice, SecofDef Donald Rumsfield, and DCI (director of Intelliegence) George Tenet. <BR> It kind of starts out slow, but if you read some Tom Clancy novels like Executive Orders, then everything you read in this novel, then everything you read in his novels are true, even to the Navy cooks. <BR> This novel is interesting, and if you are looking into the deep inside of the people in the news. Rather interesting.	2003-12-16
US	26771740	R9DLPMOLIC2YD	0670032573	511631376	Wizard and Glass (The Dark Tower, Book 4)	Books	5	0	6	N	N	A very good novel...	But the thing that bothered me with Dark Tower 4: Wizard and Glass, it took me 6 TIMES TO READ IT because he dragged on and one about Roland and his ka-tet: The story takes place in Roland's past, he was 14 at the time.<br /> Wizard and Glass starts off with the older Roland, Eddie, Susannah, Jake, and Oy on Blaine heading for a suicide with them on. The one way they have to fight for their lives is for Blaine to get stuck with one of their riddles, so far no cigar.<br /> As Blaine heads for the end of the line, Eddie then tells one of his 'stupid riddles' on which Roland calls them. Blaine then gets pissed, stops the train, and they make it out alive. Now they are in Kansas, or what was Kansas. Jake then finds a newspaper, and discovers that the world was hit with a superflu virus; the cars on the freeway were packed with cars and rotten dead bodies (Remind you of something? I thought it would).<br /> Now, they set on the side of the road, and Roland begins to tell his tale of a long story (and I mean LONG!) about his past, and his love Susan Delando. The book drags on with Roland meeting Susan who is arranged to marry the town mayor who is old, but he just wants to bear his child so his name could live on. Eventually, Roland and Susan fall in love, and make love. Rolands ka-tet: not Eddie, Susannah, Jake or Oy, his OLDER ka-tet, get jealous because they believe that Susan is poisoning Rolands mind. Now in the old oil wells, the man in black (Randall Flagg) is planning to use that oil (in Roland's world, oil is considered nothing, it is useless) to develop an army and take over the world. Roland and his ka-tet blow up the oil wells.<br /> Oh Susan's aunt is also hiding something; a pink glass ball that can see everything all around. She cherishes it; like Bilbo Baggins did the ring in the beginning of The Lord Of The Rings: The Fellowship Of The Ring. Eventually, she loses it, and now Randall Flagg wants his hands on it. Susan sneaks it out of her aunts out, and gives it to Roland. Now with Roland and Randall Flagg almost going mono e mono, Roland then see's through the glass ball Susan getting burned at the stake, and her last words: &quot;ROLAND I LOVE THEE!&quot;<br /> Now we are back in the present time. Then the ka-tet gets their stuff and head back on the road, now they are on the path of the beam.<br /> This is a good novel, but the reason it took me so long to finish it because I found the novel no use for the role in the Dark Tower, it could of been shorter, maybe like 400 pages instead of 648, and King just dragged on and on, but it is a good read, but this is a hard novel to get through, but once your finished, then you have a little bit more grasp on the series and with Roland.	2003-12-02
US	26771740	R29Z00X32DIZMR	039915079X	700072898	The Teeth of the Tiger (Jack Ryan Novels)	Books	2	0	3	N	N	What happen Clancy?	Is this the same man who brought us the classic 'The Hunt For Red October'? I'm afraid it is. First the book starts off good, bringing back Jack Jr. for the ride, and his cousins Brian and Dominac. I mean the book has it moments, but there are so many questions that are left hanging in the book; Like what happen to the drug lords the terrorist snuck in to America? What happen to Jack Jr. and his cousins, do they get the bad guys? What!?<BR> The book has it moments where the terrorist attack a mall in Virginia, that was exciting, but the end did not make any sense, it felt rushed and it felt like this book was LONG, and his editor made a cut and paste job just to get the book out. <BR> Clancy could of done MUCH BETTER, the characters felt thin, they all liked to watch the History Channel and the news, what kind of young person likes to watch the History Channel if they are not huge history buffs (like myself)? The characters felt all the same, like Jack Ryan, John Clark, Ding Chavez. Create something different Clancy. Also what happen to Ding? Clancy leaves so many questions in this novel, I finished it and felt robbed. I know that the Cold War is over, but Clancy, do us all a favor, retire because you are losing your steam.	2003-12-02
US	26771740	R2EG3UO9MFBB1L	0743417682	124087136	From a Buick 8	Books	4	1	1	N	N	If it was a short story then....	it would of been better. This is a good novel, but King (my most favorite novelist) just drags on and on throughout the novel. Unlike most King novels where he put vampires, aliens, the devil in disguise, and evil beings stalking us, this is different. <BR> I am not saying this is his best novel (that is The Stand) but it is good. Also to note, this is NOT his last novel, he is planning to write sequels for all his novels. <BR> The story goes around a rural Police department in Pennsylvania (Most of the stories beside the Dark Tower, Misery, and some parts of The Stand take place in Maine, all of his books take place in Maine. That is his most favorite place to write because he loves the state and he knows it.) and Ned's father gets run over making a traffic stop. Now he goes to the police department and becomes part of the &quot;family&quot; as King puts it. Then one day, he discovers the &quot;car&quot;. Now the &quot;family&quot; decides to tell the tale of the &quot;car&quot;. <BR> Ned's father discovers the car after it gets left by a mysterious stranger in a gas station, the driver never comes back to claim it, he is GONE! Now Ned's father brings it to the police station, and sets it in the barrack behind the Police station. <BR> Now things start happening, the &quot;car&quot; starts spitting out weird creatures, and Ned makes his basement into a lab for dissecting the creatures. One day, one of the police officers gets trapped in there, and he is gone. It is a mysterious world in the car, but King does not bring us into that world, I wish he did, but he didnt. <BR> Now the thing about the &quot;car&quot;, it puts on light shows, I am talking about blinding white light, and it has done this since they had the &quot;car&quot;. The ending is good, but like I said, if King made this into a short story, then I would of given it five stars, but since it is a novel, then it is good, not the best, but good.	2003-12-01
US	26771740	R333EM14MLBJHS	0451524934	337991686	1984 (Signet Classics)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	One of the most important novels of the 20th Century!	When I first read this novel, the first four words were just amazing! 1984 is a book that has to be read, it is just simply amazing! Pure and simple. Some of the things in this book is just frighting! George Orwell did a great job creating a story that is just VERY REALISTIC! Sure it does start off slow, George Orwell does into a lot of detail in the book about how things COULD OF BEEN if Communism did take over the world. No one has the right to privacy, the people in this book are always being watched by the Party, and it is just outright amazing.<br /> The story evolves around Winston, he works for the Ministry of Truth, deep inside he hates the Party, but he does not reveal it because of the Thought Police! So he goes to work everyday eating the nasty food the Party gives the people, he then thinks that he is being watched by the Thought Police, which turns out to be a girl who is MUCH MORE YOUNGER than he is! He is 39, and the girl is in her mid-twenties. Her name is Julie, he wanted to kill her because he thought she was spying on him, sound real huh?<br /> 1984 is a HARD novel to read, and going through the novel is HARD, but it is worth reading. The novel brings hatred toward one's government, and how one of could of lived if Communism did spread throughout the world. Very scary, but yet very interesting because George knows how to write a very good book.<br /> Read it, and you wont be disappointed!	2003-11-25
US	26771740	R23ZKNPKFCD37O	0425188310	991985349	Shadow Warriors: Inside The Special Forces (Commander Series)	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Kind of disappointed with this Clancy non-fictuon novel.	When I first picked up this book, I thought it was going to be a great inside of the Special Forces, but I was wrong. I love Clancy as a fiction writer, but non-fiction is not really something Tom Clancy cannot do to well. Sure the book starts out good, but it slows down with the history of the Special Forces (I am a HUGE history buff, so I didnt mind Clancy explaining the history.) and it kind of crashes and burn. <BR> The book could of been much more better if Clancy would of brought some more action into this book, but he fail to do so, and so I was very disappointed, I did finish the novel, and it just made me realize that Clancy better stick to fiction than non-fiction. Sorry Clancy, this was not my cup of tea.	2003-11-25
US	26771740	R2TZIF4FWTTB51	0316969680	540414996	The Beach House	Books	3	0	0	N	N	The Pages Turn.....	But 'The Beach House' is a novel that could of have good potential, but some of the things that made me look at this novel when I was finished that, in the end, it didnt make any sense. James Patterson and Peter De Jonge try to make a good legal thriller, (leave that job to John Grisham guys.) but they fail, they kind of crash and burn, but I did wish that this novel had a good ending. <BR> The story revolves around the murder of Peter, and so his brother try to finds out how he died, the police say that he drowned in the ocean, AT NIGHT! Oh come on. What person in their right mind would swin in the ocean at night, and the cops stick to this story?  So as the pages turn, it turns out that his brother was a male prostitute with the rich locals. <BR> The novel just did not grab me in the end, it started out good, but I felt it was unrealistic in many ways; one of them being kidnapping the men and women involved in his brothers murder, and setting up a fake court and have them stand before a FAKE TRIAL while they film it and get access to a local independent station in the area! <BR> Does that make any sense? Hell no! The book tries to be so many things, but James Patterson and Peter De Jonge should of done their homework first before they wrote this novel. Ignore this novel, and read a good legal thriller like The Firm.	2003-11-24
US	26771740	R1X2DKX0G6RF05	0812034384	551765009	Stephen Crane's the Red Badge of Courage (Barron's Book Notes)	Books	1	3	19	N	N	PLEASE!!!!!!	The Red Badge Of Courage is TERRIBLE! Stephen Crane COULD NOT WRITE! And one thing I find disturbing is that people see this as a 'classic'. This is NOT A CLASSIC! It depicts the vision of the Civil War through a child fighting, but THERE IS NOTHING EXCITING ABOUT IT!<BR> If you want to read about war, then I suggest that you pick up a Tom Clancy novel, and enjoy that than reading this crap!	2003-11-19
US	26771740	R38P0H1LNZY4N9	0425170349	626650351	Rainbow Six (John Clark Novel, A)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	A great Clancy novel	This is one of Clancy's best works since 'The Hunt For Red October'. This novel starts out with a hijackers trying to hijack a plane! Now how great of a beginning is that? <BR> The story is about a black organization called you guessed it 'Rainbow'. It is set in London and it goes like this. <BR> John Clark is the leader of 'Rainbow', it would be best to read Tom Clancy's earlier novels to understand who John Clark is, and with him is his partner in crime Domingo Chavez and their wives Sandy Clark and Patsy Chavez. They are on their way to London to set up shop, but just when you suspect it, HIJACKERS are on the plane, and they of course try to hijack the plane. <BR> So with John and Ding come in, they then stop the hijacking and save the day. <br /> While they are on their way to London, extreme enviromentalist are working on a disease that is able to wipe out human existence forever! The diesease is called Shiva, their goal is to wipe out the human race to help save the enviroment from utter destruction. They test the virus on homeless people, and so far, things are going according to plan. <br />John, Ding, and their wives make it to London safely, and just when they were setting up, they are on their first call. Two bank robbers holding hostages in Sweden. So Ding and his crew head to Sweden to see the scene, and of course they kill the bad guys, and they get the hostages. With one hostage killed, but the robbers did it to flex their muscle. Now the whole world see's this, and they are wondering 'who are these men in black doing all these jobs?'<BR> Of course it is a secret, and Rainbow does not really exists. The creation of Rainbow came from Jack Ryan, who is president, AND HATES IT!, to fight terrorism throughout the world. <BR> As the story moves on, a former KGB agent named Popvo see's Rainbow for the first time, and begins to wonder who is this group? <BR> Back at home, one of the cabinet members in the Ryan Administration HATES JACK RYAN because she doesnot agree with his enviromental plan. She of course is part of the plan with the extreme enviromentalists, and the same thing with a high commander in the Army. <BR> So as the attacks keep coming ranging from hostages being held in their own house by terrorist, and the event at the amusement park in Spain, John then thinks that there their must be a link between these events. <BR> Now terrorist are now forming to take over a hospital where Sandy and Patsy work at, Patsy is pregnant with their first child, and Ding is a person who is strong and represents a good role model for the Latino community. So they find out what is going on, they go in there and they get the terrorist who were hell bent on killing everyone inside. <BR> <BR>Now we head back to the doctors (or killers), one of their victims are in their trap, and now she is trying to get contact to the outside world, so she sneaks out of her room, she is intoxicated with Morphine, she then finds a computer with internet access, and e-mails her father about what is going on and she does not know where she is. <BR> The father is looking for her daughter, but when he gets the e-mail, he has hope now, but they cannot find where the e-mail was sent from.<br /> But something else is wrong too, the General from the Army is now going to plant the virus in the cooling system in the Olympics in the land down under. A employee see's something fishy and calls the cops. The General then dumps the plan, and they find the virus. <br /> Now Popvo comes back into the picture, and he meets up with some people who are working on the virus, he then finds out the truth on what is going on, he then makes a run for it, he then tells the government about what is going on, and now Rainbow comes into the picture. They then went to their headquarters in the American Plains, but it is deserted. <BR> <BR>It turns out that they are in South America, now as Ding and his crew come back to America, they get brief, and they are headed to Brazilin the Amazon rain forest. They get the killers, and they save the day.<br /> This is by far one of his best novels, and I just wish that Mr.Clancy would write more novels like this instead of bringing garbage out like The Bear And The Dragon, Red Rabbit, and The Teeth Of The Tiger. <BR> Great novel, and definitely a must read for any Tom Clancy fan out there.	2003-11-17
US	26771740	R2WUPWUS2S4K15	0743455967	44310359	On Writing	Books	5	0	1	N	N	A great 'how to write' book	Now this book is great if you want to learn how to write, and name what person would not want to learn how to write when the book is written by Stephen King? Now I am a HUGE Stephen King fan, and I had to get this book. First Mr.King goes through his small autobiography about his life, and also about his writing. <BR> Sure the book is short, but King makes a great statement that all other books out there that show you how to write are just stupid, of course those were not his exact words, but I'm close enough. <BR> Anyway, he shows you how to build a story, and how to set up paragraph's throughout the book. This is also different because Mr. King is known throughout the world for writing horror, but he shows you that he is a good writer and he can just do about everything when it comes to writing. He loves writing, as he mentioned it in this book, and he could never picture doing something different with his life other than writing. <BR> Anyway as the book moves along, he then tells you constant reader that 'there is no magic place where all the stories are there.' No, Mr. King then shows you that it starts off as a idea, when he was talking to his wife on what would happen if vampires came to someplace like New York or Maine? There you have Salem's Lot, what would happen if there was this crazed sheriff in a small desert town in Nevada killing passerby's? Desperation, and the list goes on. <BR> So if you are a person who wants to know how to write, then pick up this book, and do a lot of reading because reading does give you a look at how stories are built.	2003-11-07
US	26771740	R2MGX6SIY2EFEP	0446527793	332456280	The Guardian (Sparks, Nicholas)	Books	5	0	3	N	N	Another great romance with a great twist!	The Guardian is by far THE BEST NICHOLAS SPARKS NOVEL YET TO DATE! I say that with great sastification because not only does this novel have a good love story, but also a tale of how something can go wrong when you least expect it. <BR> Julie is a widow whose husband, Jim died. Of course on Christmas, she receives a gift from her deceased husband, a dog who she names Singer. Now fast forward four years later, she is now ready to date again. But so far, no luck. So she runs into this nice guy named Richard. A successful businessman who's good looks and charms catch Julies eye. Then there is Mike, who is friends with Julie, and was friends with Julies husband Mike. They are very close to each other, but Mike loves her in a more passionate way, but when Richard gets into the picture, it kind of turns things sour with her and Mike. But then Julie does not like Richard because she feels that there is no spark there like she had with Jim, so she callss it off, and Mike then talks to her, and he asks her out, she said yes and she falls in love with Mike. But then Richard, who's leaves town to go to her mothers funeral finds out that it is over between her and Richard. <BR> Then Richard's evil side comes out, and now he is stalking Julie and Mike, Richard is obessed with Julie, and will do anything to get rid of Mike, even murder! Now I am not going to spoil the ending because it just gets better and better, of course the book starts off slow, and it just gets harder to put down, but if you find the beginning boring, JUST KEEP READING IT, and you wont regret it.	2003-11-03
US	26771740	R30252ADO2MLX2	0446611867	916864624	A Bend in the Road	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Another good love story with a little twists	A Bend In The Road is a good romance novel, but it was a little different from the other Spark's novels (The Notebook, A Walk To Remember) but it still held the romance. Of course this is one of Spark's best, but when I got to the end, it just brought me closer to the characters in the book, and this is a MUST read by Spark's fans. <BR> I love this novel a lot, and if you are in for a romance novel especially on a rainy day, buy this novel, and you will not regret it.	2003-10-31
US	26771740	R7V1RE7UQF5KK	0446608955	721431789	A Walk to Remember	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Very Touching Love Story	Before I read this novel, I never even heard of Nicholas Sparks, and what his writing was all about, so I talked to a friend and they recommended this book, and the author, so I went to the library like I always do, and checked this out. <BR> At first I thought this novel was kind of slow at the beginning, but as I moved along with the story, I then realized that this man Nicholas Sparks has heart and he has written a good story. <BR> It is about a boy named Landon, who falls in love with a Preists daughterm but as times goes on, she starts to get weak, and he finds out the truth, I am not going to spoil the ending for the people who want to read this novel. But this is the first book that made me cry, because I got to know these characters: Landon and Jaime as like they were real. <BR> So read this novel if you want to get into a real deep love and tragic story.	2003-10-30
US	26771740	R12AXOAAP54TBK	0446612545	540414996	The Beach House	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Ok, but the end is kind of unbelievable	Now don't get me wrong, this is a page turner, and twists and turns come, but the end is kind of unbelievable.... A good read if you are going on a long airplane trip, and just a good rent from the library. Not really worth buying.	2003-10-27
US	26771740	R2BGI42BPKDGZU	0446611085	706464487	Suzanne's Diary for Nicholas	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Very Heartwarming	Suzannes Diary for Nicholas is just amazing! I could not get my face out of this novel because it moves with just an excellent dialogue. Katie has found the perfect man: Matt. But then out of nowhere, Matt leaves Katie, but he leaves her a diary. In the diary, Katie finds out that Matt has a wife and a son. As Katie reads on about Suzanne, Katie then starts to get angry at Matt because Matt told Katie that he was divorced, but Matt is hiding something from Katie, and toward the end of the diary, Katie finds out the hidden past in the diary that Suzanne writes for her son Nicholas.<BR> The story ends with a sad tale, but it is a tale of love lost, and refound love in this man's life.	2003-10-20
US	26771740	R2HPYH58PD6JT4	0446608815	373226516	Pop Goes the Weasel (Alex Cross)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Excellent	Alex Cross novel. This passes Kiss The Girls in my book, and this book is just amazing. There are a lot of great things about this novel, the killer, and just the whole plot, and it is quite romantic. <BR> Buy this novel! If you are a Alex Cross fan, buy this novel, and you wont regret it!	2003-10-14
US	26771740	R24IPFHRY4Z1V2	067102423X	85988614	Bag of Bones	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Very Amazing	This is King as his best, period. Best selling novelist Mike Noonan is getting over the death of his wife Jo, and he has writer's block to add to his trobules. So he escapes to his summer home called Sara Laugh's. From there, it goes from legal to a romance novel. There he experiences these strange dreams which as vintage King, and he falls in love for Mattie, a black woman who is fighting for her daughter's custody from her father. <BR> So Mike then helps out Mattie and the dreams then start to get more weird, and messages start to come out of the letter magnets on his fridge. Then it becomes a ghost story which is very intersting to read.<BR> I am not going to spoil the ending because I want the people reading this to read this fanastic novel. Sure there are points where u feel like you are in a tail spin, but it is worth checking out.	2003-10-14
US	26771740	R2C17DGRFM8WRR	039915079X	700072898	The Teeth of the Tiger (Jack Ryan Novels)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Not bad	But The Teeth Of The Tiger could of been better. What Clancy is trying to do is trying to come back from The Bear And The Dragon and Red Rabbit from how terrible they truly are. <BR> He knows that Jack is getting old, and so he brings along Jack Jr. and his cousins Dominic and Brian. One thing: Brian and Dominic are boring charatchers, and Jack Jr. is boring himself! <BR> Clancy tries to bring back Jack Jr. as the new generation of hero's, but what ever happen to Ding? Clancy should of brought back Ding and bring him to action instead of Brian and Dominic. <BR> Well it is sad to see that Clancy is just writing for money now, and not just for the sake of his fans. Also Clancy, if u r reading this, read more novels instead of history books.	2003-10-14
US	26771740	R3KW1HDX4YKJA0	0743211383	241269653	Dreamcatcher	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Another GREAT King Novel!	Dont let the bad reviews stop you from reading this book. Its starts out as four friends from Derry (If you are a HUGE King fan, then you know this town pretty well and the things that haunt the people who live in Derry.) who befriend a down syndrome kid. So as the friends get older, and move on with their lives, they then go to a hunting lodge every year to go hunting in the Maine woods. Then one of the friends discover a man that has been wondering in the woods for at least the past couple of days, but then he talks about the strange lights in the shy. Then when he went to go use the bathroom, a alien being came out of his (...) and goes around killing the two friends.<BR> The two friends then escape only to find a UFO has crashed in the woods, and one survived. So then comes the military to the Maine woods to find and kill the alien that has crashed landed on earth, but one alien has SURVIVED! <BR> So the alien that Mr. King calls Mr.Gray then gets ahold of Jonesey and now it is the chase to find Jonesey who is heading to Derry. So now as this fungus is spreading around called Ripley, anyone that is infected with the disease is now being quaritined in this farmhouse by the military presence there. <BR> The novel is quite gripping and worth reading, but the ending is good nonetheless.	2003-10-14
US	26771740	R3F54G3I77I7K7	0446691798	939348220	Nights in Rodanthe	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A Decent Novel	The first book I read by Mr. Sparks was 'A Walk To Remember' and from that book on, I have been drawn to read all his novels, and Nights In Rodante is a decent novel, but nothing like 'A Walk To Remember'. <BR> This is a tender love story of two strangers from two different worlds, and yet by chance, they fall in love, but they only share that love for that one weekend. Of course, some of the writing is simple, and very very predictable, but it is worth checking out of the library, not worth really buying.	2003-10-10
US	26771740	R36XYE6HJ7BEPO	0451184963	179012025	Insomnia	Books	5	1	4	N	N	VERY GOOD!	This is Stephen King at his BEST people. Ralph Roberts is suffering from insomia, and things are not going his way. Of course if this was not written by Stephen King, then this novel would be boring, but it isnt. First it starts off with Insomia, then it leads of these things that float around everybody's heads (sort of like life.), and when he breathes them in, he grows stronger. <BR> Then he starts seeing these gray beings everywhere. Eventually he meets one of them and talks to them, they tell him that he has to save a four year old boy named David because the bad gray being is out to kill him!<BR> Now David is a certain key in The Dark Tower series, and the same thing with Ralph Roberts. So all in persective, this is a good novel, it may be long, but it is good nonetheless.	2003-10-10
US	26771740	RNI4SJ9554EAI	0395193958	669379389	The Lord of the Rings	Books	5	0	1	N	N	I love it	Wow, having this leather bound copy of the greatest story ever told is just simply amazing. Of course, in order to understand The Lord Of The Rings, you have to read The Hobbit, which is good in its own right, but The Hobbit is just the prelude to one of the greatest triology ever written.<br /> What comes second? Stephen King's The Dark Tower series, although they something in common, but I am talking about this volume, and its great from beginning to end.	2003-10-09
US	26771740	R3K7ZEKC7UYCWN	0451186362	40528119	Rose Madder	Books	5	0	2	N	N	One of Stephen King's BEST!	Rose Madder is about a woman who is abused my her cop husband Norman. Then one day, she justs gets up and leaves him for good. <BR> She takes the Greyhound to another city, and starts a new life, with the help of a abused woman's program, she gets a job making audio books, and moves out of the boarding house, and into a apartment. <BR> But when her husband Norman comes home and she is not there, he uses his detective skills and is now on a murdering rampage on trying to find her, and killing the people who helped her. <BR> Then she meets a guy named Bill, he is nothing like Norman, he is sweet and gentle, she meets Bill because he works in a pawn shop, and that is where she finds this magificiant painting. <BR> She buys it, and puts it in her apartment, but she notices that it is alive! She then has this dream of El Toro chasing her into this dark area of the painting, and trying to kill her. <BR> Norman then comes back into the picture with the beating of one of the women at the boarding house, almost killing her. <BR> She then notices that the woman in the painting needs help, she is a black woman with a white dress on, and the only way to get rid of El Toro is to get inside the painting and kill El Toro for good. <BR> Norman then finds this mask of El Toro and he wears it when he goes out to kill.  Then he takes it off and talks to it like it was real. Anyway, this is a good book, so I am not going to spoil the ending, but it is good.	2003-10-09
US	26771740	ROCDB3B460J00	0446601241	366731957	Kiss the Girls (Alex Cross)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Masterful	When I read 'Kiss The Girls', I thought this book was masterful.<BR> This is the second Alex Cross adventures, and i truly loved this novel. The novel is based on 'Casanova' and 'The Gentleman' these two men are notorious for collecting women from different backgrounds and different personalities. <BR> Then when the kidnapping of Alex Cross's niece, Alex Cross then decides that he needs to find her, and goes to Virginia to find her, but he is out of his jurdiscidation, but that does not matter to Alex because his niece is gone, and he wants to fine her.<BR> But then when one woman escapes from the hands of 'Casanova', she then finds Alex and tries to help him locate 'Casanova', but Alex does know that 'Casanova' and 'The Gentleman' have been working together, and he needs to find out now, and find his niece before she is possibly killed. <BR> Now how this novel ends, I dont want to ruin the ending, but it is definitely a collection getter.	2003-10-08
US	26771740	R200HZ7TAKK4OS	0142800406	511631376	Wizard and Glass (The Dark Tower, Book 4)	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Amazing	First I am reviewing the paperback novel, but let me begin.<br /> Wizard and Glass at first I thought was boring, but after getting through the first 300 pages, then things started to pick up. Wizard and Glass starts off where we left off in Roland's world with his ka-tet on the suidice train named Blaine.<br /> But to stop the train from crashing at the end of the line at 800 miles an hour, Blaine loves riddles. So Roland and his ka-tet, they then devise a treaty of sort with Blaine: if Blaine cannot solve Roland's and his ka-tet's riddles, Blaine will not kill them, if they lose, then they die with Blaine.<br /> So they go for it, but he has cracked every riddle Roland, Jake, and Susannah can come up with, but Eddie is quiet. Eddie is not quiet at all, he is always the big talker in the ka-tet.<br /> So just when you think that they are going to die, Eddie then comes to the plate with his riddle he learned from his brother in 1978 or 79 I cant remember, and he saves their lives.<br /> So blaine stops, and they get off the train. Now once they are off, they find themselves in Kansas, and they are close to the end world, and closer to the Tower.<br /> The thing is, Jake finds a newspaper dating back to the 1978 novel 'The Stand' about how Kansas has been struck by a super flu called 'Captain Trips'.<br /> Roland and his ka-tet find skeletons in cars that are jammed on the urnpike, just like when Larry Underwood had to go through when he went into the Lincoln tunnel in 'The Stand'.<br /> Roland then decides it is time to tell his ka-tet a early tale of love and adventure, and they knew that it was going to be long, but it is something Roland has been facing for a long time.<br /> Roland then tells the tale of his love Susan, and the story of his fellow gunslingers. Now they find out that this man named Jonas (It's Randall Flagg.) knows what to do with the Citgo oil fields and plans to take over the world, but Roland and his Ka-Tet get set up for a murder they didnt commit. The murder of the Mayor, which is supposed to be Susan's husbands, but she is only there to just bear his child.<br /> Eventually Roland and Susan fall in love, and so we continue.<br />Now with the oil fields, they put a firecracker in one of the anicent pipes and BOOM! the whole field blows like a HUGE bonfire.<br /> Now comes to the race to fight Jonas and Eldred with the Wizard's Window, which can see just about anything that it wants to, but the ball wants to work when it wants to.<br /> I am going to stop because the ending is amazing, so if you want to see what happens, then read the novel.	2003-10-08
US	26771740	R32EM1Y1L56WLJ	0425184226	243303903	The Sum of All Fears (A Jack Ryan Novel)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Scary Ride	The Sum Of All Fears is by far THE BEST CLANCY NOVEL EVER! First it starts off that a Israeli nuclear missle is missing, and it falls in the hands of a Palestinian man who's father owns some land with the missle in his land, so begins the process of a nuclear missle. So with some help from ex-felon Marvin Russell, and the help of a German man who's wife is held in prison for murder, they decide to get a hold of some German nuclear scientist and begin the making of the bomb.<BR> While in the good U.S. of A, things are taking a toll on Jack Ryan, the Fowler Administration dislikes Jack, especially Elizabeth Elliot, Presidential Advisor, and lover on the side of the President Fowler.<BR> Jack is now caught in the fire by the Fowler Administration in which they did a background check without his ok with it, and they find that he is helping Buck Zimmer's wife Carol and her kids with money for all her kids in college. So they take pictures of him talking to Carol by giving her presents for her kids, and along side with him is John Clark. <BR> Now the Fowler Administration see's a advantage to taking care of Jack. At home, tensions with Jack's wife Cathy who wants another child, cannot seem to do it because the job is taking a toll on him real bad. <BR> Now Cathy is depressed because she feels that Jack is cheating on her, then comes John Clark and his partner in crime Domingo Chavez. They tell her the truth, and they set up with the CIA for Jack to take a couple of days off to be with his wife and a romantic dinner and a hotel suite.<BR> Now we turn back to the terrorist, once they get to Denver, they kill Marvin Russell in the hotel room they were staying in, and all the scientist and the German guy too. They then decide to release the bomb in Denver where the Super Bowl was being held that year. <BR> So they bring the bomb to Denver, they rent a Budget truck, and hide the bomb in the back by disguisting the truck as a news truck, so they go through security in a breeze.<BR>  Then disaster strikes! The bomb goes off killing everyone in a three mile radius. Then Russain subs attack an American vessel, but the vessel is being controlled by a man who got a Russain colonel suit and told the vessel to attack the sub. <BR> So with his failed intelligence, Fowler then decides that it could be no one other than the Russians, so he sets up a nuclear warhead toward Moscow and vice versa. <BR> Then comes Jack Ryan, he finds out that the Russians didnt do it, and it was the work of terrorist, but Fowler sticks to his plan on killing innocent people in Moscow because of something they didnt do. <BR> So then comes John Clark and Domingo Chavez, they find out who did it, and now they are on the hunt for the nuclear terrorist, eventually they got lucky, and they caught them in Mexico. <BR> Then Jack Ryan gets through the President of Russia and Fowler and tell them that the Russians didnt do it, Fowler pays Jack no attention, but by the brinks of God, not a single nuclear missle was fired. <BR> This is a great novel, and I am just sad to see that Tom Clancy cant write like this anymore.	2003-10-08
US	26771740	R37YAF2NXO30XI	0446606189	265763987	Cat & Mouse (Alex Cross)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Another hit out of the park for James Patterson	Cat and Mouse brings back Gary Sonji from 'Along Came A Spider' to get revenge for Alex Cross. Then comes Mr. Smith, a killer terrorizing Europe. <BR> Things get rolling when Gary Sonji sets up shop in Grand Central station with a sniper rifle and starts shooting. Now comes Alex Cross, he is called to Grand Central station to get Gary Sonji, but something is stranged, he is firing only six shots at a time, and vice versa. <BR> Alex notice this, and find out that HE IS NOT THERE! The gun is on automatic fire where the trigger is pulled back to fire, Gary is now on a train heading out of the area. While Mr. Smith, a London detective (I cant remember his name, sorry.) is having a horrible trying to catch Mr. Smith, but it is no easy task.<BR> So with Alex Cross searching for Gary Sonji, since I dont want to spoil the story, it ends in a tight twist and it is definitely worth reading.	2003-10-08
US	26771740	RDIDXE44VDIBN	0316693200	309666534	2nd Chance	Books	4	0	0	N	N	2nd Chance	To me it was simple writing, but this was my first James Patterson novel that a friend gave to me for my birthday. At first I thought that this was going to be just another mystery which you think that this person is the killer.<br /> No that was not the case with this book, at first I got pissed because his chapters were only three pages long at the most, I was used to reading like 50 page chapters from the likes of Stephen King and Tom Clancy.<br /> But 2nd Chance was a good novel, not great, but it was good.	2003-10-08
US	26771740	R2Z2PGGU4QPL22	0345444884	122553244	The Talisman	Books	5	0	3	N	N	Great Duo	'The Talisman' is a great novel, period. The novel surrounds Jack Sawyer, a 12-year old boy on the run with his mother who is a b-actress, she is known as queen of the b's.<BR> 'The Talisman' starts off with the story of Jack and his mom fleeing Jack's uncle Morgan Sloat. Jack and his mom end up in New Hampshire, and rent a hotel room. Since Jack is not in school, he takes a walk around the boardwalk and to the arcade, and that is where he meet's Speedy.<BR> Speedy is a old black man who is a repair man for the rides on the boardwalk. He makes conversation with Jack, and he refers to Jack as 'Travlin Jack'. Jack Sawyer's father used to call him 'Travlin Jack' because when he was younger, he would go everywhere.<BR>  But then one day, Jack discovers his father and Uncle Morgan Sloat talking about another world called 'The Terrorities.'<BR>Jack's father wants to help out the people in the other world by giving them electricity, and other basic needs that us normal folk take for granted.<BR> Since Jack was only three at the time, he didnt know what they were talking about, but Speedy tells Jack that he has to go travlin' west because there is something going on in the terrorities, and only Jack can save the queen of the terrorities, which turns out to be Jack's mother's 'Twinner'.<BR> A 'Twinner' is me, in 'The Terrorities', and so Jack finds his mom talking to Uncle Morgan over the phone, now he knows that if Uncle Morgan finds them, they are going to be in huge trouble.<BR> The reason is that Jack's mother owns Uncle Morgan money and he has the cops looking for her because Uncle Morgan told the cops that Jack's mother is unfit.<BR> So Jack tell's his mom that he has to go, so he packs some stuff, and goes back to Speedy. Speedy then gives Jack some 'magic juice' to get into the terrorities.<BR> With this, he then begins traveling, running into different things he has never seen, he then befriends a werewolf who calls himself 'wolf'. Then the story keeps on getting better as the story tellers go on, and the end is great. This is something that holds up to the Lord Of The Rings books, and this is fanasty is one of the best fanasty novels of our time.	2003-09-25
US	26771740	RAREGTNL0R0SX	0451169514	380266608	It	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Another great Stephen King Novel....	Ignore any bad reviews you read on this website. IT is a masterful tale, although long: the paperback is 1,080 pages long, with the hardcover 1,138 pages long. <BR> The book starts out with the death of Georgie Denbrough, the little brother of one of the hero's in this long but great tale. <BR> Bill Denbrough, Beverly Marsh, Mike, Richie, Stan Uris, and Ben all experience with this ancient evil that has been haunting their town called Derry. The thing about it, the people who live in this town try to ignore it like it goes not exist at ALL! <BR> The townspeople are scared of what lurkes in their sewers. <BR>The story takes place in two times: Derry 1958 and Derry 1985. <BR>Mr. King goes through both times very easly, and most of the times when u r reading this novel, you dont notice it. <BR> Then in 1958, they go down in the sewer, all experiecing with IT: who calls himself Pennywise, and they destroy IT; or so they think.<BR> Mike, the only kid who stays in Derry, see's a number of murders of small children happening again like it did back in 1958. So he calls all his friends, and back in 1958 they all made a promise that they will come back to fight IT again. <BR> So they come back (minus Stan because he slits his wrists in the bathtub while spelling IT in his own blood and his wife discover's his corpse.) and recollect the memories of that summer. <BR> I dont want to give away the ending because that would just destroy the book, but read it nontheless. GREAT NOVEL.	2003-09-23
US	26771740	RHNFFLUOO262M	042510107X	34724671	Red Storm Rising	Books	5	2	2	N	N	ONE OF THE BEST CLANCY BOOKS!	Red Story Rising is one of the BEST Clancy books. This book was when Clancy was in his prime, and this is truly Clancy at his best. <BR> The book starts out with a terrorist attack on the Soviet Union in their oil fields, then the top men in the Kremlin in the now gone U.S.S.R., they now decide in order to save their country, they decide to take out the West in order to get the oil fields in Saudi Arabia. <BR> Then the novel goes through much detail about what would happen if the U.S.S.R. did go to war with the West, and if this really happen, then it would turn out just like Red Storm Rising without a shadow of a doubt. <BR> This is more a action novel by Mr. Clancy, if you like Red Stom Rising, then you would like Rainbox Six, Executive Orders, and  Debt of Honor.<BR> But if you like the political type of novels, then Patriot Games and Clear And Presend Danger is the novels you want to read by him.	2003-09-23
US	26771740	R12M6SS85QX1TB	0743457358	796500127	Everything's Eventual: 14 Dark Tales	Books	4	1	5	N	N	This is good none the less	Everything's Eventual is good, but not great. There are a couple of good short stories in this novel that would grab your attention. <BR> One of them being 'Lunch At The Gotham Cafe', which I found really gruesome, and '1408'. One I didnt really care for was 'Everything's Eventual' because there was nothing the story could offer to me. I read the story nonetheless, and I got it just to read 'Riding The Bullet' which I found out was ok, not great, just ok. <BR> There were some other stories that were bland 'Autospy Room 4' and some others but I cannot call them off the top of my head.<BR> But I have to say that 'In the Deathroom' is one of the top three best. Good, but not great like Nightmares and Dreamscapes.	2003-09-22
US	26771740	R6AQLVPBTBB1Y	0767905296	579302723	The O'Reilly Factor: The Good, the Bad, and the Completely Ridiculous in American Life	Books	5	3	7	N	N	This is great	Personally I like Mr. O'Reilly because he does not care if you are the prince of England, because once you enter that No-Spin-Zone, it is all over for you. Mr. O'Reilly hits America with a dose of reality and most of what he has to say in this book is straight forward, and it is not sugar coated like most anchor's out there are. <BR> Mr. O'Reilly brings the facts, and what should be done in order to save this society we call America. <BR> Good work, Mr. O'Reilly.	2003-09-22
US	26771740	R23DBQ1J4OD39P	0451170385	887327600	Four Past Midnight (Signet)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	This is good	This is the best short-story novel my Mr.King that he has released since Different Seasons (which I really enjoyed).<br /> Not only is 'The Langoliers' good, 'The Library Policeman','The Sun Dog', and 'Secret Window, Secret Garden' are good.<br /> I really enjoyed 'The Library Policeman' because when I was younger (about the age of 6)I used to go into the library and check out books...and when they were late..I would think that the library policeman would get me and kill me for the books being late.<br /> Thank God there is no such thing as a library policeman, but reading the short story really brought the feeling that there is a such one.<br /> If you are into short stories, then Four Past Midnight is for you.	2003-09-22
US	26771740	RRNMSOFS8DRGQ	067102423X	85988614	Bag of Bones	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Excellent	I loved Bag of Bones because I felt that the story had heart and it had a message. Mike Noonan is a best selling author who is still recovering from his wife's death. Mike Noonan resides in Derry, and decides to live in his summer resort Sara Laughs.<BR> Then he meets a young black mother named Mattie with her daughter, and she is in a custody battle between the father who is the rich white man living in Sara Laugh's. <BR> Now Mike helps out Mattie and her daughter, and Mike falls in love with Mattie. Now at his summer house, strange things start to happen, beginning with the magnets on his fridge, they start to say something. <BR> I could go on with the story, but I dont want to spoil it for the reader reading this review. But this is good nonthelsss. <BR>I have read almost all of the Stephen King novels out there, and I still got someways to go, but this is one of my favorite Stephen King novel, the first being The Stand of course.	2003-09-22
US	26771740	R11NLKNOU0XMZP	0671039741	165977133	'Salem's Lot	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Without A Doubt the second BEST vampire novel EVER written	The BEST vampire novel: Dracula. Salem's Lot is GREAT! This novel is just as scary as Dracula is. This novel surrounds around a small town in Maine called Jersulam's Lot, but it's called Salem's Lot for short. <BR> The novel talks about the war in Vietnam, and surrounds this small town. Now the people are hard working people, but then a mysterious person sets up shop in this town. Then it goes through the whole town...and now the town is full of vampires.<BR> The novel is full of suspense, and trust me once you read this novel, you will be scared out of your wits!	2003-09-19
US	26771740	R11IAFY5EUKQRR	0440206154	247672694	Red Dragon	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A masterful novel	This is suspense at it's BEST. 'Red Dragon' is the first novel that introduces Hannibal Lecter to the world.<BR> The story surrounds FBI Special Agent Will Graham: he is the one who captures Hannibal Lecter. Now he turns to Lecter to search out a serial killer. <BR> The killer's name is Francis, (I cant spell his last name so work with me.) and what is interesting about this guy, he is just a regular Joe, but he has a physical defect: he can't pronunce 'j' too well. <BR> Will then discovers a mark, which in Japanese means 'Red Dragon'. So as Will slowly picks up the clues, Francis befriends a blind woman who he works with. Francis also has a key clue: he bites his victims. Francis is controlled by this dragon that he has tatooed across his back. So in a way, he has a multiple personality disorder, and he see's himself changing into the dragon.<BR> But I am not going to give the ending away, but I suggest that you read this novel in the daytime, but it is something that you are not going to put down.	2003-09-19
US	26771740	R2I8H4ME6CBASK	0345441036	237509158	Black House	Books	1	1	7	N	N	Very Disappointing....	When I first picked up 'Black House', after I just finished the great novel 'The Talisman', I thought that the novel was going to reunite Jack Sawyer...but it didnt. The beginning was confusing, and I threw the book across the room after page 400.<BR> The story is boring, and I got confusing at the beginning because of the detail and all the skipping around...and it just got more confusing. <BR> I loved 'The Talisman', and still do, but 'Black House' is about as confusing as teaching a 5 year old astrophysics. <BR> What made it more confusing is the eggs that Speedy sent Jack, how did the eggs get there? ...	2003-09-12
US	26771740	R3QHM6GN51PCIT	0451172817	742574412	Needful Things: The Last Castle Rock Story	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Needful Things.....	is a great SK novel. The charatchers are interesting and what also makes it more interesting is the storekeeper is how he uses the people of Castle Rock turn on each other. <BR> This novel is one of SK's best, and truly this is a must have for hard core SK fans like myself.<BR>This ranks with the big boys like 'The Stand' 'IT' 'The Tommyknockers' 'Insomia' 'Carrie' 'Salems Lot' 'The Shining' and my list goes on. <BR> If you want to be scared and looking for a good suspense novel, then this is it.	2003-09-12
US	26771740	R3NOEORT84REH	0446608955	721431789	A Walk to Remember	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A beautiful novel	'A Walk To Remember' is a beautifully written novel. The story line evloves around the love of two teenagers and it shows that love can strike at any age. What makes this novel so good is the charatcher building and how they share their love for each other. <BR> There are parts in this novel that make it a romance classic, and this is a MUST read novel if you are a romantic type of person like me. <BR> There are parts in this novel that made me cry, and also it made me happy to see that these two people found love, and also it teaches how you can lose that love but still you change as a person inside and out. <br />GREAT NOVEL.	2003-09-12
US	26771740	RWT6D3N6QU1O9	039915079X	700072898	The Teeth of the Tiger (Jack Ryan Novels)	Books	4	2	6	N	N	Much better Mr. Clancy	This is SO much better than that horrible 'Red Rabbit'.<BR> Ok the book is not Clancy's best, but I hate to say as a Clancy fan, Clancy is losing it. I mean his earlier books WERE the best he has ever written, the LAST good novel he wrote was the excellent 'Rainbow Six'. Since then he has lost it BIG TIME!<BR> 'The Teeth of The Tiger' is about two brothers, one being in the Marines, and the other in the FBI. Now they are joined into a secret organization which was created by President Jack Ryan.<BR> At first the Marine didnt want to join because it involved 'murdering' as the Marine puts it, people. <BR> That all changes when they encounter terrorist in a shopping mall while looking for shoes. Also Jack Ryan Jr. is now the front man, he was trained by black op's best John Clark and Domingo Chavez, but the thing is that Jack Ryan Jr. does not fit the black op theme. <BR> If John Clark and Domingo Chavez were in this novel, it would of been much better than it already is. <BR> With the terrorist dead at the shopping mall, Jack Jr. discovers who was behind the terrorist hit in the shopping malls across America. <BR> So the two brothers head to Europe and with Jack Jr. to stop the ringleader behind the attack Mohammed. <BR> Another thing about this novel was that it was short from the other novels he has written in the past. The last time he wrote a short novel like this was his first and best novel 'The Hunt For Red October'. <BR> If you are a deep Clancy fan, you will be sastified, but it could of been better but again it was better than the horrible 'The Bear And The Dragon' and 'Red Rabbit'	2003-09-12
US	26771740	R2U1C4GWUX84X7	0451169514	380266608	It	Books	5	0	0	N	N	IT is GREAT!	My friend gave me the orginal hardcover of IT when I turned 18, and once I read IT, I could not put it down. Yes IT is long; in hardcover 1,138 pages LONG, in paperback; IT is 1,080 pages.<BR> Now the story is GREAT! This is horror at it's BEST!<BR>The story takes place in a Maine town in 1958 and 1985, and it takes you through their adventures during 1958 and 1985, and it just keeps you glued to the story, and IT's long, but I was NEVER bored with it non what so EVER! <BR> The charatchers are great, and the whole adventure to find this ancient evil lurking in the sewers is amazing, and to add, this is not a book to be missed. <BR> A lot of critics dont like this novel because it is too long, but dont listen to them, in order for you to understand IT, you have to buy IT, and be prepared to be scared!	2003-09-10
US	26771740	R64WJXU65S2PS	0425170349	626650351	Rainbow Six (John Clark Novel, A)	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Good Rainbow....	I loved Rainbow Six because it added the realism that I love about Tom Clancy, but I gave this novel 4 stars because he messed up on one little thing. <BR> That thing being is that one of the charatchers Tom Clancy is referring to, is that he was born to a Chinese father and a Latino mother. <BR> One...when you are referring to a woman who has Latin blood in her, you dont call her a Latino, she is a Latina. Second Latina's dont date Asian's or Germans, they only go out with black's and other Latino's. <BR> But beyond that, this is a GOOD novel, the action is there, and this is one of his best novels, I just wish that Red Rabbit had the same action like Rainbow Six does. <BR> I also liked the charatcher Domingo Chavez, and another thing when his son was born, he named him John Connor Chavez. One other thing; A Latino man does not name his son John Connor Chavez or any other name that is not referring to his Latin roots. <BR> Latin men who have kids want their kids to have Latin names and for a Latino man to name his son John Connor Chavez is just out of the picture.	2003-09-10
