US	27226251	R2RP8CVST8GSNM	0465030505	190590158	Why Orwell Matters	Books	2	18	34	N	N	Knowledge for Knowledge's Sake	Detailed and well researched, Christopher Hitchens unveils a small pamphlet on the life and work of George Orwell, but he rarely explains the significance of Orwell's politics as they relate to the contemporary world. Hitchens is a fine journalist and he compiles some interesting information on Orwell's experiences in Spain, India, and elsewhere, but he rarely provides in-depth political/literary analysis of the man, preferring instead to subject the reader to mildly interesting anecdotes involving various luminaries in the literary/political world. Why Orwell Matters is a minor work, it may interest curious readers who've read 1984 and Animal Farm and would like to know more, but it's far from a serious study.	2005-10-09
US	27226251	R3OXN3AYU0472A	0465030327	237103339	Letters to a Young Contrarian (Art of Mentoring)	Books	1	17	65	N	N	Arrogant	Christopher Hitchens places himself as a radical political contraire, desperately seeking to impart his wisdom to youthful students of foreign affairs; he gives answers to unasked questions and revels in his own glorious self. I like Hitchens and think he was once one of the great journalists in the world, but lately his egoism and opportunism have gotten a little hard to take. Listen, to brashly and stupidly apologize for the crimes of George W. Bush when you were once a self-proclaimed Trotskyite is not being \\"independent-minded,\\" it's selling out. Notice how polemicists who change their worldview always seem to migrate towards the center of power, never the other way around. This is a rather useless little book in which Hitchens is constantly making love and equating his style to George Orwell which is just pitiful, Orwell never had to directly impart his virtue to others in letter form, it was always right there in his novels and essays, and that is what Hitchens cant seem to understand, a true journalistic dissident does not have to expound his views, they're right there on the page, let the readers think for themselves. I'd like to see Hitchens return to the valuable work he has done in the past and stop trying to make a cheap buck off this schlock.	2005-10-02
US	27226251	R3KSWHWNYGP2CL	1859846319	415848956	The Trial of Henry Kissinger	Books	3	5	9	N	N	Revealing	This little book includes some of Christopher Hitchens' best investigative reporting. He puts former Secretary of State Henry Kissinger on trial (at last), and indicts him for war crimes and crimes against humanity in Vietnam, Laos, Cambodia, Chile, Cyprus, East Timor, for an attempted assassination of Greek dissident journalist. The book is slim, but fairly detailed, and while it focuses on Kissinger (deservingly), the implicit thesis of the book is the flaw of international legal standards, that is to say, when a statesman commits crimes and is powerless he is hanged, if the statesman is powerful he is worshipped. Perhaps a little light on footnotes, Hitchens prefers to provide internal citations, but I think book's conclusions are actually conservative; Hitchens often cites the most conservative number of dead civilians to avoid legal pressure, i.e. 100,000 dead in East Timor (most studies cite 200,000 in total), one can be sure that the figures are not politicized, Kissinger's legal team would have brought Hitchens down in two seconds if there had been number inflation. (...)	2005-10-02
US	27226251	R2EJDFN0RRUTKO	0679724656	862001785	Beyond Good & Evil: Prelude to a Philosophy of the Future	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Brilliant	Beyond Good and Evil is one of the most important works of modern philosophy, and I can't imagine I have anything to say about it that hasn't already been said. Nietzsche essentially argues that the majority of philosophy is simply the extension and logical extrapolation of an unfounded belief, or prejudice. Philosophical declarations of morality are typically baseless, and merely reflect the inner opinions of the philosopher. Well, there are more ideas in this book than I could possibly summarize. Read it and decide for yourself.	2005-09-02
US	27226251	R1MATEHPCXYABO	1558614362	869711546	Still Alive: A Holocaust Girlhood Remembered (The Helen Rose Scheuer Jewish Women's Series)	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Intellectual Holocaust memoir	Ruth Kluger gives a remarkably lucid and thoughtful account of her experiences as WWII Austria, and eventually the concentration and forced labor camps of Germany. Even though English is not her first language, Kluger writes remarkably succinct and cogent English prose, and she confronts the moral and emotional complexity of the holocaust in her memory. \\"Still Alive\\" is loosely structured, as Kluger prefers to record the events as she recalls them as opposed to adhering to strict chronology, but the result is very interesting, she superimposes her thoughts and secrets as the horrible events unfold. She paints a vivid and, at times unusual portrait of the Nazi holocaust, often ruminating on the pain and humiliation (she wonders if her father trampled children when sentenced to the gas chamber), but also the sheer enormity of the camps as an historical event, she recalls that when she received her tattoo she felt glee because she realized that she was a part of something that was much larger than herself, something \\"worth witnessing.\\"  A third of the memoir is post-holocaust, Kluger recounts her experiences in New York after the war as she and her mother struggle to regain control of their lives, and look for possible meaning and redemption in their past-suffering.	2005-09-02
US	27226251	RUDV1JICD3U2C	1904859208	81602506	Chomsky on Anarchism	Books	2	23	37	N	N	Nothing New	It seems like AK press is hell bent on publishing everything Chomsky has ever written and said over and over again. Unfortunately there is nothing in this text that hasn't already been printed, so readers of Chomsky are more than likely to be disappointed as I was. There are excellent articles in here however, such as \\"Objectivity and Liberal Scholarship, an article on Vietnam and the Spanish Revolution which originally appeared in Chomsky's first political book, \\"American Power and the New Mandarins.\\" The article is first-rate scholarship and includes excellent bibliographical information. Chomsky was probably the only American dissident in the 1960's who was discussing issues like Anarcho-Syndicalism in relation to the Vietnam conflict. The other articles in the book have also appeared elsewhere, and they vary in quality a great deal. There is some interesting discussion here on Libertarian Socialist life in the Israeli Kibbutzim as well. \\"Language and Freedom,\\" is an excellent lecture which connects his linguistic work with political ideology (which Chomsky now refuses to do), and discusses classical anarchist thinkers like Bakunin and Rocker. The last couple of interviews get slightly too informal for my taste and there are hardly any footnotes to back them up, but still this is a moderately helpful collection of material which gives an insight into Chomsky's anarchist convictions	2005-08-19
US	27226251	RSWJ5N5HAKMO6	0374522928	564011426	Call It Sleep: A Novel	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Fine portrait of the immigrant experience	Henry Roth was a truly talented writer and I feel frustrated as a reader that there are only a few books of his to read. However, \\"Call it Sleep,\\" is a wonderfully full and vibrant novel about a poor Eastern European Jewish family that settles in the Lower East Side slums of New York. David is the protagonist, a small, fearful, and imaginative boy who must contend with the fast moving intensity and danger as a foreigner in New York. He is surrounded by moving characters, such as his  brutish and impatient father, who struggles to support his family or Aunt Bertha, the sanguine flirt who represents the peace and comfort of the old world. I don't ordinarily enjoy these kinds of sociological novels, but Roth is able to conjure up breathtaking images, and he paints his canvas with fascinating dialects with encompass the multi-culturism of American life. \\"Call it Sleep,\\" is truly a neglected piece of depression-era literature.	2005-08-14
US	27226251	RBOXYD1129OTV	0872862984	824086654	Against Empire	Books	1	5	37	N	N	Unreliable	This book is not serious scholarship, it is merely an op-ed piece. The author, Michael Parenti does not provide any footnotes to back up his claims; strange coming from a scholar from Yale. No matter how much is said that conforms to my beliefs about politics it simply cannot be relied on as there is almost no evidence within.	2005-08-08
US	27226251	R21AKM5GATMBRV	0060932139	104524934	The Unbearable Lightness of Being	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Multi-faceted	Imagine a story of dark horror, philosophical reflection, and enigmatic romance unfolding through the lens of clear blue water. That is what it was like, experiencing this novel for the first time. Kundera is able to burrow within the realm of Nietzschean, and sometimes Eastern Zen-like philosophy and at the same time explore the nature of language, and balance it with a highly nuanced, often meta-physical love story. Tomas is a successful man who has a wife but also loves another woman, Sabina. He is unable to decide whom to live with and his life descends into lightness, and ultimately meaninglessness. That is all I can say of the story. You must experience this fine novel for yourself, and be damn sure you read it before you see the movie!	2005-07-30
US	27226251	R20T3FOVPM3SL6	0262024187	164654662	Noam Chomsky: A Life of Dissent	Books	2	6	9	N	N	Not very illuminating	This biography doesn't have much to offer for those who are more or less familiar with Chomsky's work. On a side note, there isn't much to say about Chomsky's life beyond his work, which is obviously all-consuming. As such, the biographer is reduced to an amateurish overview of Chomsky's career and influences which are all together pretty dry and unsatisfying. It's much better to get an understanding of Chomsky's work from his own words, I highly recommend \\"Understanding Power, and \\"Language and Politics,\\" for instance. Perhaps the only thing that kept me reading is the author's overview of Chomsky's political development as an activist and scholar. There are some excellent selections going into the various political literatures that helped shape Chomsky's ideology as a young person. Unfortunately, the biographer takes it upon himself to subjectively defend Chomsky in some of his more controversial endeavors. I'm referring now to the Robert Faurrison affair. The author should have simply let Chomsky's defense of the matter speak for itself but instead he chooses to attack an author who was critical of Chomsky by explaining an encounter he had in which he heard the author speak give a lecture on the topic in which he didn't seem to have a handling of the material which the biographer decides is proof that he didn't actually read his book. This is a task for another text and shouldn't have been included. An average read on the whole, though it may be useful as an overview for those who are new to Chomsky.	2005-07-30
US	27226251	R2BV4H58B7XUB4	0393321126	702934503	The Iron Wall: Israel and the Arab World (Norton Paperback)	Books	4	9	15	N	N	Good Review of History	Avi Shlaim is in the school of what are called \\"The New Historians\\" on the Arab-Israeli conflict, along with Benny Morris who broke new ground in historical analysis with the Birth of the Palestinian Refugee Problem. This text by Shlaim is a great single volume overview of the history of the conflict, from 1948 and the war of independence leading all the way up to 1999. The thesis of his book is that the Zionist movement eventually adopted the political philosophy of Ze'ev Jabotinksy with his ideas on revisionist Zionism, his argument being that the Zionists must build up and Iron Wall in the Middle East to create the State of Israel, with the intention of allowing the Arabs in after they give up the fight. Essentially it's an ideology that breaks down as: the best defense is a good offense. And Shlaim makes a compelling case in his book, doing so as objectively as he can. He traces the origins of the first Arab war, the Suez War, the June 1967 war, the Yom Kippur war, and so on, leading up to the collision with the Palestinians and the still going occupation. The flaw in this text is that while Shlaim is able to draw on a wealth of primary Israeli sources (providing an excellent bibliography), he is unable to reveal Arab planning as he cites very few Arab sources. I don't pretend to know the truth about this conflict; there probably will not be an objective account on this for another 100 years for all I know. However, I think Shlaim is done an excellent job reviewing Israel's history and political policies in the Arab world, and anyone who is new to this topic should start here.	2005-07-22
US	27226251	R25MAVI5DL5Q36	0060936649	302174200	Wittgenstein's Poker: The Story of a Ten-Minute Argument Between Two Great Philosophers	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Good Fun	Wittgenstein's Poker begins with the now legendary confrontation between philosophical heavyweights Ludwig Wittgenstein and Karl Popper, which allegedly resulted in Wittgenstein threatening the latter with a red hot poker before the very eyes of such big shots as Bertrand Russell. The book is an examination of the two intellectuals, their background in Vienna, further intellectual pursuits, and finally the classic confrontation. Occasionally the book comes across as an exercise in appealing to bourgeois snobs who want to feel smart simply because of the protagonists and some scattering of analytic philosophy, but who are not willing to turn to the actual works of these men, such as Wittgenstein's Tractatus or Popper's The Open Society. However, Edmonds and Eidinow do a good job with the material; the book is well written and they manage to paint a nice picture of pre-war Vienna and later academic life, and some competent overviews of 20th century philosophy eventually emerge. Still, for anyone who wants to truly understand these men this book isn't great, to the original text for those who are serious.	2005-07-21
US	27226251	R1SNSIM2WYT8NJ	0415254086	411173754	Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus (Routledge Classics) (Volume 123)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Thoughtful and Important	I have to admit that my understanding of this philosophical text by Wittgenstein minimal at best. The book is small and is broken down into short, declarative investigations of the boundaries of human knowledge, presented in terms of logic, and often symbolic language. The mathematical formulas and explanations are extremely complicated and I'm sure more background in this area is needed to really grasp the material. However, there is enough in here that's both cogent and profoundly imaginative to keep casual readers hooked (if they're patient). This is considered one of the most important works of philosophy in the 20th century despite Wittgenstein's closed-door conclusions. I'll leave you with the most imortant line in the book; a finding of genius, or a pretentious cop-out? You decide:<br /><br />\\"What we cannot speak about we must pass over in silence.\\"	2005-07-11
US	27226251	RDEPVHK72AV3L	0374525285	828207438	Hunger: A Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Classic	Hunger is a remarkable first-person account of a poor writer in Oslo who is starving. Knut Hamsun was able to paint a vivid and breathtaking portrait of the psychology of nihilism and self-contempt in this novel, a work for which he will always be remembered. It was obvious to me upon reading this that Hunger is extremely influential, it seemed to have a lasting impact on the more existential writing of the early 20th century, most clearly with Franz Kafka's story, \\"The Hunger Artist.\\" For all its disturbing strangeness, Hunger is amazingly a work of fiction that is also wittily funny. It begins and ends quite arbitrarily, and is filled with wickedly funny anecdotes, such as the protagonist's inexplicable following of a young girl, for whom he repeats, \\"you've dropped your book.\\" I think Hunger will always be studied because it's extremely hard to understand. The book is filled with contradictions as exemplified by the addition's conflicting forward and afterward. In the forward, the writer argues that the protagonist's plight is suicidal that his hunger is avoidable and his behavior is deliberately self-destructive, whereas the afterward writer maintains that his hunger is merely a product of poverty and social injustice. In any case, the book is extremely compelling and vivid. Unfortunately, Knut Hamsun is a man whose life is not at all beyond reproach; he did eventually support the Nazi Party and ended up sending his Nobel Prize to Goebbels, which is utterly deplorable, although many have maintained that Hamsun was fully insane at the time. Never the less, despite Hamsun's character and political dumbness, Hunger is an excellent book and should be read by all lovers of literature.	2005-07-08
US	27226251	R1T9VV84ZZ8SZ3	0300103050	958790976	One World: The Ethics of Globalization (The Terry Lectures)	Books	2	6	15	N	N	Flawed	Peter Singer has long since proven himself to be one of the most important and influential ethical utilitarian philosophers of the 20th century. However, when Singer steps into the realm of politics things get a little murky; this book, \\"One World\\" is an analysis of Globalization and its effects, and it's a less than perfect work. For instance, Singer provides thorough background information on the harmful effects industry is having on the environment in the form of greenhouse gas emissions, and then moves into a section on politics and international law. Now the problem with his research is that the majority of the sources he cites in the footnotes are outdated web pages that can no longer be accessed, hardly something you want to ground your beliefs about globalization in.<br /><br />The exception to this is the source for footnote 33 on page 45 of the \\"One Atmosphere\\" chapter, which links to an excellent website detailing the U.S.'s steadily increasing rate of Carbon Dioxide Emissions which confirm his claims. Unfortunately, a number of these online resources Singer cites cannot be reached, I'm referring now to footnotes 5 and 6 of chapter 1 which details U.N. reports, footnotes 2 and 4 of chapter 2 are also not available, as are footnotes 10, 11, 20, 35, 37, and 59 of chapter 3, \\"One Economy,\\" and these are just a sampling of the sources I checked. The majority of this is highly unreliable data, and it's not just the websites, Singer relies very heavily on Thomas Friedman's biased book \\"The Lexus and the Olive Tree,\\" see footnotes 15,16, and 17 of chapter 1. Clearly there's a dilemma for people who are serious about this topic after reading through Singer's notes.<br /><br />Hell, maybe every single source cited in this book is correct, but I couldn't verify a great deal of it. But that's just one complaint I have with the book; in addition, Singer indicates to me that he just isn't an expert on politics in any sense of the word. For instance, when discussing international law and humanitarian intervention initiatives, Singer simply confuses political \\"authority\\" with political \\"legitimacy\\" outright. Not only that, but he proceeds to discuss genocide and crimes against humanity with regard to Democratic political systems without offering any kind of working definition of democracy. I wonder if he realizes that the so-called democracy in the U.S. contributed to the genocide in East Timor. Anyway, as I've said before Singer is an excellent ethical philosopher, but his politics is pretty amateurish.<br /><br />Perhaps my biggest complaint with the book is Singer's failure to analyze the connection between the rise of globalization with the rise of poverty, pollution, war, etc. He simply describes globalization as a phenomenon, detailing the facets of the WTO and so on, without offering much of a thoughtful connection between that phenomenon with the other ethical concerns of the book. To put it simply, Singer ultimately cops out in offering a normative judgment on globalization as a whole, preferring instead to move on to other issues like international law and nationalism, issues that for me at least are intimately related to globalization.<br /><br />The book does have some good insights to offer; the final section where Singer analyzes the U.S.'s frugal contributions to Third World countries is particularly striking, and he offers some insightful solutions to solving problems of global poverty and suffering. Additionally, he offers some interesting criticisms of John Rawls' work in political justice and his failure to address issues of justice between differing societies. Yet, I'm afraid this book has too many problems to recommend or rely on, but I'm sure there are many superior books on globalization for readers who are willing to look.w and humanitarian intervention initiatives, Singer simply confuses political \\"authority\\" with political \\"legitimacy\\" outright. Not only that, but he proceeds to discuss genocide and crimes against humanity with regard to Democratic political systems without offering any kind of working definition of democracy. I wonder if he realizes that the so-called democracy in the U.S. contributed to the genocide in East Timor. Anyway, as I've said before Singer is an excellent ethical philosopher, but his politics is pretty amateurish.     Perhaps my biggest complaint with the book is Singer's failure to analyze the connection between the rise of globalization with the rise of poverty, pollution, war, etc. He simply describes globalization as a phenomenon, detailing the facets of the WTO and so on, without offering much of a thoughtful connection between that phenomenon with the other ethical concerns of the book. To put it simply, Singer ultimately cops out in offering a normative judgment on globalization as a whole, preferring instead to move on to other issues like international law and nationalism, issues that for me at least are intimately related to globalization.     The book does have some good insights to offer; the final section where Singer analyzes the U.S.'s frugal contributions to Third World countries is particularly striking, and he offers some insightful solutions to solving problems of global poverty and suffering. Additionally, he offers some interesting criticisms of John Rawls' work in political justice and his failure to address issues of justice between differing societies. Yet, I'm afraid this book has too many problems to recommend or rely on, but I'm sure there are many superior books on globalization for readers who are willing to look.	2005-07-07
US	27226251	RXKOWMOVWWP6V	0394747097	740367006	The Words: The Autobiography of Jean-Paul Sartre	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Wonderful account for any lover of words	This is Jean-Paul Sartre's brief autobiography about the impact the printed word had on his life. The book is divided into two sections, the first is titled \\"Reading,\\" and the second \\"Writing,\\" and I think that's an excellent summary of his life. Sartre recounts his early childhood, being born into a family without a father, and ultimately living a secluded a childhood submerged in his grandfather's library. Sartre then discusses life at the Ecole Superior, when he began to develop as a writer of prodigious genius. Sartre doesn't discuss his work particularly; this text is not a critical examination of his literary and philosophical work. Rather, it is a deeply introspective reflection and inquiry into the powerful and lasting effects words can have in life. I recommend it to all fans of reading.	2005-06-30
US	27226251	R28M30MZG9KMQT	0801878403	979932750	Essential Cinema: On the Necessity of Film Canons	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Worldly Criticism	Rosenbaum proves himself once again to be among the most knowledgeable and eloquent film critics in print today. Unlike some of his other volumes such as \\"Movie Wars,\\" Rosenbaum doesn't discuss the grim realities of corporate Hollywood so much (although he does comment on filmmakers who have been treated unfairly by the system), as he evaluates directors and films which he believes are of historical and artistic importance, such as Orson Welles, Fritz Lang, Eric Von Stroheim, Yasujiro Ozu, and Sam Fuller. Rosenbaum writes with clarity and insight on a number of film-related topics, such as screenwriting and mise en scene. He's remarkably intelligent and has a keen eye for film aesthetics; he's passionate about the French director Jacques Tati which is slightly problematic because Rosenbaum worked as an assistant for Tati for a time which may slant his opinions of the auteur. Never the less, Essential Cinema is one of the best collections of film criticism I've read in a while, and his personal favorite 1,000 movies list is a valuable resource, though I disagree with a number of selections. The book is a worthwhile purchase for any cinephile.	2005-06-30
US	27226251	RCRB1KDCX5BQ5	185984488X	513688777	The Holocaust Industry: Reflections on the Exploitation of Jewish Suffering, New Edition 2nd Edition	Books	2	12	20	N	N	Interesting, but flawed	Unlike the precision of research that his characteristic of Norman Finkelstein when it comes to the issue of the Israel-Palestine conflict, 'The Holocaust Industry' is a disorganized and ultimately spotty work of political science.<br /><br />Finkelstein's aim is to present an \\"anatomy and an indictment of the Holocaust industry,\\" meaning the subsequent exploitation of the historical tragedy that was the Holocaust for political and financial ends. The book is composed of three basic sections, 'Capitalizing the Holocaust,' 'Hoaxers, Huxters, and History,' and 'The Double Shakedown.'<br /><br />Chapter one deals with the evolution of American awareness of the Holocaust as an event throughout the course of the post-war era. In it, Finkelstein alleges that the Holocaust was basically not discussed in America prior to the June 67 war in Israel. The majority of his arguments here are quite correct, though the general thrust of the argument is borrowed heavily from Peter Novick's book, 'The Holocaust in American Life,' which Finkelstein cites as a major influence but not a \\"radical critique\\" (5). In this section, Finkelstein oscillates between sharp political analysis and careless ranting. He includes bizarre footnotes to designate his 'terminology' such as footnote 7 on pg. 13, which states: \\"In this text, Jewish elites designates individuals prominent in the organizational and cultural life of the mainstream Jewish community.\\" Unfortunately for Finkelstein, this is not really a proper \\"organization\\" which can be referred to on a whim. It are these kinds of generalizations which severely limit the quality and veracity of the arguments presented.<br /><br />Chapter 2 deals with the apparent influx of fraudulent \\"Holocaust literature\\" which has inundated the American public with pro-Israeli propaganda. Finkelstein discusses hoaxes like Wilkomirsky's \\"Fragments,\\" and Kosinsky's \\"The Painted Bird,\\" and rails on Elie Wiesel for charging for his lectures. While it is true that many individuals have turned a profit off of the Holocaust in this way (particularly in recent years), this argument remains entirely too reductive. What about the excellent and serious-minded work of Primo Levi, Ruth Kluger, and Paul Celan? Are these artists and historians trying to capitalize off of the Holocaust as well? At what point does an author become a Holocaust \\"Huxter\\"? The problem with this line of argumentation is that it lumps individuals into one enormous category that they may not necessarily deserve.<br /><br />The final chapter is the strongest of the book. Finkelstein ruthlessly scrutinizes the actions of the WJC in their claims against Swiss and German banks for Holocaust Survivors. He has documented a record of falsification that is difficult to believe. After winning the European monies (at an inflated sum), the relevant organizations subsequently refused to distribute the money to the actual Holocaust survivors. This is a difficult topic to stomach, and it raises many troubling questions. However, Finkelstein's evidence in these final sections is a valuable resource.<br /><br />The Holocaust Industry suffers from its polemicist ravings and broad generalizations. At the heart of it is an important issue, namely the issue form of historiography and memory regarding the Holocaust and other outrageous acts of genocide. Finkelstein is angry that the Holocaust has apparently been elevated above all human suffering, and he is angry that individuals have positioned themselves in such a way as to capitalize off of this horrible tragedy. Yet his work deteriorates in his tendency to rant and rave, as well as his frequent use of generalized and unsupported claims. Near the end of the book, Finkelstein writes that \\"The abnormality of the Nazi holocaust springs not from the event itself but from the exploitative industry that has grown up around it.\\" (150). Are there no other instances of the exploitation of human tragedy? I am inclined to cite 9/11 and theU.S.S.R under Stalin as other examples of the same phenomenon.ples of the same phenomenon.	2005-06-30
US	27226251	R2BJTQA6CO1YD3	0030403065	129862113	Cambodia: Year Zero (English and French Edition)	Books	2	11	19	N	N	Dated	Don't get me wrong, I'm sure at the time of the book's publication during the 1970's this was an invaluable text when little was known of the genocide in Cambodia. The author, Francois Ponchaud offers a detailed account of the Khmer Rouge takeover and subsequent political experiment that included horrific violence and totalitarian levels of state control. Ponchaud's book is mostly comprised of Cambodian refugee accounts recorded in Thailand once they escaped from the Khemer Rouge's brutal grasp. The accounts are extremely detailed and tragic, and I'm sure they were extremely informative at the time. However, Ponchaud's scholarship is not beyond reproach. For instance, he frequently tosses around numbers of refugees and Khemer militants, and there's little that can be verified from the refugee accounts, many of which are recorded second-hand. I'm afraid the vast majority of the sources that Ponchaud cites are just references to Cambodian radio broadcasts that cannot today be confirmed. Additionally, the entire last section of the book is given over to the background history of Pol Pot and his legions, tracing the origins of socialist thought in them, and bogusly arguing that the Khemer Rouge's ideology was the logical conclusion of all socialist thought. Unfortunately, there is barely a single source cited in this entire section! It really cannot be relied on. I'm not saying that the contents of this book aren't correct or that they're not worth reading, I'm just saying there is very little that can be verified. Still I'm sure the book was quite an eye-opener  at the time, but you should really check out the more serious scholarship on this subject that was printed after the atrocities for they are far more professional and are backed up with a wealth of resources. I recommend to all readers interested in the topic to read the articles produced by Yale University's Cambodian Genocide Program, a thorough study of the history and results of the Khemer Rouge's disastrous and barbaric reign.s and barbaric reign.	2005-06-23
US	27226251	R3ROR5TY02VU1P	1565848098	660961895	Problems of Knowledge and Freedom: The Russell Lectures	Books	3	13	14	N	N	Chomsky on Human Nature and Politics	This text is a collection of lectures given by Noam Chomsky that relate to his insights into Linguistics, human knowledge, and politics to intellectual Bertrand Russell, whom Chomsky shared many points in common. The first half of the book provides a brilliant and succinct explication of his linguistic discoveries and its implications on human nature and general cognition, but it will surely be challenging to any reader not familiar with linguistics. The second half is an essay on Western Imperialism, particularly as it pertains to the Vietnam War, and for those who have read Chomsky's American Power and the New Mandarins this lecture comes off as a rehash of old material, although it does provide a devastating examination of the state-influenced intellectuals who control the political ideology or our insitutions, and of the threat of nuclear war and the extinction of the human species.	2005-06-14
US	27226251	R9K7EHA5XGORZ	0140445145	909088894	The Twilight of the Idols and the Anti-Christ: or How to Philosophize with a Hammer (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Is man only God's mistake or God only man's mistake?	In this powerful work of philosophy, Nietzsche ponders the value of nearly everything. In the first text Twilight of the Idols, he offers a compelling attack on the prevalent beliefs of his time, including such thinkers as Hegel and Kant, as well as Socrates, theology, morality, and all things German. In the second text, the Anti-Christ, Nietzsche brilliantly and energetically provides his counter-arguement to Christianity and the ways the institution has distorted and murdered the teachings of Christ. His writing is breathtaking and his arguments are made in brief, explosive flashes of immense genius. However, his work can be exhausting as he continues to negate all thought besides his own, and his ability to draw references can be formidable. I'm sure the latter essay will not be palatable to devout Christians but it is necessary that you read it, for it will surely shake the foundations of your belief.	2005-06-14
US	27226251	R2H5JMJX18DKBO	0671203231	224357917	Why I Am Not a Christian and Other Essays on Religion and Related Subjects	Books	3	23	27	N	N	Intelligence and Clarity	I'm always pleased to pick up a book by Russell, his writing is always so brilliant and clear at the same time. This book, is a collection of essays on Christianity and Religion, and Russell provides logical and compelling arguments against the institution of faith, arguing that organized religion is grounded in hatred and fear and that its effects are harmful in the world. SOme of the essays are a little dry, and some of them are simply old news, but I would recommend this text to anyone interested in the topic. Russell is not confrontational or condescending, he simply argues his position with logic, history, and sometimes humor. The essay in which he equates Communism wiht Religion is particularly intriguing.	2005-06-12
US	27226251	R1V602LYGQXEKZ	0872863824	82421947	Atet A.D.	Books	2	3	6	N	N	Esoteric	I was pleased to hear upon completing this book that Nathaniel Mackey has more or less given himself over to writing poetry which I think is a smart move because his srange writing style (which places emphasis on sound) is far more suitable for poetry than prose. This novel, is the third installment of a trilogy about a traveling jazz band that is presented in letter form and has an off the wall weird mixture of music, myth, etymology, and surrealism. Unfortunately, for readers like me de-emphasis on story and character is always a serious handicap. It seems that Mackey is most interested with proving to his readers that he's an intellectual. Perhaps I just misunderstood this book, and  maybe I would like it better if I read it again, but I just f ound it overly pretentious and ultimately unapproachable. There is a large following of literature buffs who swear it is masterful, but I can't imagine the average casual reader being anything but annoyed by this one.	2005-06-06
US	27226251	R1ELVJHI2DIB3L	0156421178	802050474	Homage to Catalonia	Books	5	5	5	N	N	One of Orwell's Best	I was surprised when I read this little known Orwell gem to find that it is in many ways superior to 1984 and Animal Farm. For one thing it is an absolutely first rate account of the Spanish Civil War which is a difficult subject to apprehend because of the massive propoganda of the party literature, as Orwell notes in the text. Some may find the more strictly political sections a bit tedious (Orwell actually warns the reader about such segments) to get through, but for those interested in the politics of the revolution they are intelligently expressed and carefully put together. But Homage to Catalonia is such an amazing and complex blend of everything Orwell; it is a deeply human and observant depiction of war and struggle, it is a political document, a scathing assesment of power and manipulation, and a satirical commentary on the follies of war.  Why this over-looked classic is not mentioned in the same breath as 1984 and Animal Farm is beyond me.	2005-05-21
US	27226251	R2BHP9WAE3K05Z	1400076218	522305574	Jazz	Books	3	7	13	N	N	Interesting Structure	Jazz is an interesting novel, and in some ways the characters ring truer than in her most acclaimed work, Beloved. The story unfolds in a totally brilliant way, we see the key event in the narrative from multiple points of view, and the character's perspective from many points in time. The narration is also deliberately self-conscious and at times humorous, though I was annoyed by her stream of consciousness at the book's end. Still, Morrison does an excellent job weaving character, moral ambiguity, violence, race, and sociology in a vivid mosaic of Harlem life.	2005-05-03
US	27226251	R1IGZC12L8WPYB	1902593820	23998673	Language and Politics	Books	4	9	9	N	N	In-depth with one of our greatest thinkers	This collection is an impressive gathering of interviews collected from the early sixties to the present. In it, the Professor gives some of his best long-range insights on a number of topics, such as linguistics, philosophy, science, politics, the Middle East, the media, and education. This volume is not the place to start if you are new to Chomsky's work, but it is an excellent supplement to his famous writings. As to the interviews themselves, they are mostly fascinating, Chomsky proves once again that he may be the most important intellectual of the latter half of the 20th century. My one complaint is that some of the interviews overlap, as he is asked to speak multiple times on a number of topics, he is asked what the conncection between his linguistic work and his political work is about twenty times for instance, as the title would suggest. Aside from that, this is an invaluable read.	2005-04-28
US	27226251	R1WBZMERUND3UL	0140042598	303305496	On the Road (Penguin Orange Collection)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Beyond Beat	On the Road is of course characterized as the bible of the beat generation, and certainly it is a perfect depiction of that particular time and place in American cultural history. But one must not be trapped by this characterization. On the Road is so much more. It is a beautiful journey with full and deeply imagined characters and feelings. Kerouac probably has more to say about American life in On the Road than any other novelist of the period. The book is a real joy and essential reading for anyone interested in breaking out of the mold of the plastic, suburban middle-America that came to dominate our landscape during the fiftees and beyond.	2005-04-14
US	27226251	R3DUHBS2UER2AR	0375422870	751438850	From Oslo to Iraq and the Road Map: Essays	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Some Sane Words from a brilliant man	I can't recommend this text to any reader new to Edward Said, check out Orientalism as its a much better introduction to his scholarly point of view. However, this is a fairly good collection of essays of the Middle East conflict, particularly the current \\"peace\\" process. Said provides excellent explanation and interpretation of the Camp David meetings and the Oslo accords, and also scrutinizes the Palestinian leadership. Said was a remarkable professor and and a virtuous man and I am sure his passing is a blow to the Palestinian people.	2005-03-28
US	27226251	R309RSUTN48S32	0684801221	737092002	The Old Man and The Sea	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Simplicity and brilliance	This book is simply a a joy to read. The language is simple and clear, and yet it evokes extremely powerful images. I think the Old Man in the Sea is not Hemingway's best or most important book, but I do think it contains only what was good about his writing, and nothing that was bad. To me, despite its length, it is biblical in scope and vision, painful, meaningful, and very sad. The old man's return to his home after the sharks have eaten his marlin is one of the greatly tragic moments in all of literature. Be sure to read this beautiful novella over and over.	2005-03-21
