US	27463422	R3NAF3RB0DZKAJ	0440413702	560547943	Make Four Million Dollars by Next Thursday!	Books	3	3	4	N	N	How to get rich, step by step	Quick!  Open up this book and begin reading immediately!  Dr. Pinkerton is at it again with this second book on how to <br />accomplish the impossible.  It's funny and easy to read (allow <br />45 minutes).  Like the previous book, Be a Perfect Person in <br />Just 3 Days, the author has a talent for making you feel like <br />you are there.  Each page leaves you wanting to find out what <br />comes next.  Then suddenly, the book is over.  Well, it wasn't <br />as funny as the last one but if I see another book like this, <br />you bet I'll read it.	2005-10-06
US	27463422	R135WTDAOQYBEB	0590371258	253930945	Out Of The Dust	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Do you like to feel miserable?	This book reminded me of Our Only May Amelia in the overwhelming tragedy, talent of the author at capturing your imagination to make you feel you are there, and an interesting style of writing to make it more entertaining.  Each short chapter is like a little poem making for easy reading. This book is so tragic and sad, it's like a nightmare.  It's like a horror story written for children, to make them see the ugly side of life.  It's too horrible to even cry.  I won't plan on <br />reading it to the children.  Surely there are other kinder ways for children to learn about the great depression and the dust bowl than immersing you in a horror of severe burning, childbirth, and alcoholism.  I would certainly hope a person was allowed to learn the wonder and beauty of childbirth in their young life before ever having to read this ugly book. <br /> <br />Yet I had to give it 5 stars, because of the talent.  There was <br />a Little House book called The Long Winter, where the author <br />could make you feel the winter.  In this book, the author makes <br />you feel the dust.  I had to dust the whole house when I was <br />through because dust just seems so disgusting now.  I never <br />knew I took fresh, un-dusty air for granted until I read this <br />book. <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-05-31
US	27463422	R38UWZTPR3QMZX	0027448401	299865317	All New Jonah Twist	Books	4	0	0	N	N	could anyone be any slower?	Jonah is a forgetful, easily distracted dawdler who doesn't <br />have any real friends yet although he is eight years old already.  Because he acts this way out of his life being boring, <br />no one takes him seriously and he gets treated like a baby. <br /> <br />This year, things are going to be different because Jonah makes <br />up his mind to forge a reputation for himself as \\"responsible\\". <br />Throughout his struggles and adventures, sometimes it seems like <br />it's just not worth it.  But in the end, there is a brand new <br />Jonah. <br /> <br />My eight year old son Jonah was just like this.  I could hardly <br />believe there was a book about a person like this.  This book <br />showed him how things got better when someone tried.  It's nice to learn from someone else's mistakes instead of suffering for your own.	2005-02-06
US	27463422	R1XJLIBER2HSLH	0553265997	781066094	The Pigman's Legacy	Books	3	6	8	N	N	What happened after The Pigman died?	How did John and Lorraine's life change after this experience?  It started out pretty good.  John gave up drinking and started smoking spinach (spinach?) cigarettes at Lorraine's urging.  John and Lorraine yell at anyone who's mean to the lunch lady.  But their lives are still going nowhere.  They meet another old man and try to do it over the right way this time but it's just not the same.  The new old man is cranky and rude, the kids aren't really needed in this story as the lunch lady befriends the old man and takes care of everything. The Game of Life was interesting but that's about it.    It definately did not feel like you were stepping into a teen's world.  It just seemed like a grown up who had fond memories of drinking, smoking, swearing, cutting class, driving crazy and has major gambling problems (He also has fantasies that he could meet a nice girl who would be fine with all this).  This sequel to The Pigman was totally unbelievable and I would reccommend that you skip this book and write your own sequel, I know it would be better than this one.    John and Lorraine's relationship stays respectable.  The word sex is mentioned a lot but not as it relates to John and Lorraine. I would agree that the book would be rated PG-13.	2005-01-28
US	27463422	R1NSC4QK7F0S1N	0553263218	835646053	The Pigman	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Did it really happen?	Well I know this is a fiction book.  I know it and yet I feel like it really happened.  John and Lorraine wouldn't just make the whole thing up, would they?  Well, actually, that's how the story starts.  After a few formalities, the first one being to teach us how to set off a bomb in the boys' bathroom without being caught (hey, you got to get our attention somehow, right?), we are taught the game that started this whole story.  The object of the game is to call a complete stranger on the phone, and see who can keep them talking the longest before they find you out.  Obviously, this book was written before they invented cable TV and video games, not to mention the internet. I don't think people today can think up such a creative game.  Well, this particular phone call leads to the actual meeting of a person.  Mr. Pignati, or the pigman, is a lonely old man who is fooled into actually making a donation to \\"Miss Truman\\" (Lorraine) and \\"Mr. Wandermeyer's\\" (John) fictitious charitable organization.    Meeting this man will change the lives of John and Lorraine forever.  The author explains to us that \\"bad\\" teenagers like John and Lorraine can't really help themselves.  He asserts that it's their treatment by their parents that have made them insatiable entertainment seekers.  They do things to try and show they are grown up like swearing, drinking, smoking, setting off bombs, skipping school, staying out all hours, etc.  During the course of this story, they (and us) are shown that these are not the things that make us grown up.  These two are taught in a most painful way that we are grown up when we care about others more than ourselves.    At least that's the lesson it means to teach.  It's the lesson that makes sense to an adult but I am not convinced that it is the lesson that is learned by the young person this book was obviously intended for.  This author implies that normal tenth graders all behave badly to show they are cool and grown up.  This book is rather dated in that way. Times have changed and even Jesus is cool today if that's what you believe.    The big problem with the book is this:  The writing isn't advanced enough to satisfy an adult and I believe it's a bad influence on the children it was intended for.  In real life, it's too advanced a lesson for kids like John and Lorraine to grasp.  The only ones who will get it are the ones who got it already anyway.    This is an excellent quality story. I would recommend it to any teen who believes getting away with misbehavior makes you grown up.  I would also recommend it to this kind of teen's parent because you may see yourself in this book too and see why your teen thinks he's right.	2005-01-17
US	27463422	R2KULCXCOZRQRO	0763616052	363595414	Because of Winn-Dixie	Books	5	0	0	N	N	What to do when you're lonely	This is the story about a lonely 10 year old girl who adopts a stray dog.  It's very funny how he gets his name.  Right away we see how brave and smart our main character Opal is.  What makes this story is a certain deep longing in Opal that is successfully conveyed. It is a deep longing for being connected with others.  This book shows us that far from being harmful, deep feelings of lonliness can actually help us.  They can be a driving force to help us better connect with others.  When I  read this book, I realized that God is always sending people into our lives. They are people who we need as much as they need us. It's just that sometimes we are not lonely enough to even notice.  One thing leads to another and it's all \\"because of Winn Dixie\\".  Caution - children reading this book might be  misled into thinking it's O.K. to go into strangers' homes.  Also, there was too much talk of witches and booze.	2005-01-15
US	27463422	R2GRRVTSZYACJP	0763617229	951349864	The Tale of Despereaux: Being the Story of a Mouse, a Princess, Some Soup, and a Spool of Thread	Books	5	2	3	N	N	a timeless tale of love, hope and danger	What do you hope to gain, dear reader, in reading this book? <br />An exercise in vocabulary? An understanding of the world?  A few <br />minutes of satisfying quality time with your children before bed?  Yes, you will receive all this, but only if you know your <br />children well.  Will you sacrifice their innocence on the altar <br />of entertainment?  <br /> <br />Eventually all children will reach an age when this book is very appropriate and even helpful, due to the always right actions of both Despereaux and the princess.  Our heroes never <br />disappoint us and our villians never cross the line into horror.  The author had her chance to make this a truly hideous <br />book but time and time again, chose not to.  It's almost like a <br />veggietales castle book in that way.  I believe no parent would <br />want to read the tragic and troubling story of Miggery Sow to their children, but it teaches so much about the ways of the world.  Each parent needs to know their child to know if this part would soften their hearts to others suffering or frighten <br />their hearts toward adults or harden their hearts to other's suffering and make them think it's right to suffer if you are <br />dim-witted or overweight. <br /> <br />Are you a parent who doesn't believe in spells, witches, ghosts, fairies and the like for your children's reading?  Then you have come to the right place.  There are no ghosts in this <br />book but Despereaux is once mistaken as a ghost in chapter 40. <br />Shortly after that, the king says he will hire a fortune-teller <br />but this never happens. This word is easily skipped over and if desired, you could read chapter 40 as if Despereaux was really being seen and not mistaken as a ghost. Other than that, this <br />is a safe book as far as the world of the occult goes, a rare find in the fairy-tale world. <br /> <br />This book gives you about a hundred good stopping points, yet <br />each one keeps you wanting to find out what comes next.There are lots of big words to safisfy advanced readers, yet the <br />conversational tone makes for easy understanding from context. <br />And the moral of the story?  Be good, for the sake of goodness.	2004-11-27
US	27463422	R13XMSIFZEEH43	0688318436	932049553	Here Comes the Bus	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Another winner by Carolyn Haywood	The star of this book is a six year old boy named Jonathan who goes to school on a yellow school bus.  His adventures are every <br />bit as enjoyable as Betsy's adventures in Haywood's popular Betsy books.  This isn't a \\"baby\\" book like \\"see the yellow bus, <br />Jonathan likes the bus, the bus goes bumpity bump\\". No, these are Jonathan's adventures and some of the stories are about the <br />pet show at school, a boy who can't say his \\"R\\"'s, lunchroom and birthday adventures and mishaps.  It's very enjoyable and made the kids laugh almost as much as another of Haywood's books, \\"Betsy and Billy\\".  Caryoln Haywood really has a way with <br />story telling.	2004-11-08
US	27463422	R2YXM2BSK14AGK	0064408566	191195555	Our Only May Amelia (Harper Trophy Books (Paperback))	Books	5	2	5	N	N	I can't recommend it	This is a very interesting story based in part on a diary found by the author's grandaunt, Alice Amelia Holm.  It's about a 12 year old Finnish girl who lives in Washington on the Nasel River.  She has seven brothers (even though one is actually a cousin).  There is a good map in the beginning of the book. <br /> <br />This book is immediately interesting.  The odd style of capitalization and punctuation (or lack of it) makes you feel <br />like someone is really talking to you.  And the way things are <br />often described in the present tense makes you feel like you are there.  The family is deeply connected, even aunts and uncles who don't live there.  And the grandmother - even though <br />she was so terrible, it's the family connection that makes them <br />let her live there. <br /> <br />I can't recommend it because there is an incredible amount of death, even murders, and it's too much to bear.  Also, so much talk of spirits and ghosts and curses, etc.  Finally, one thing <br />happened that was just so unbearable it nearly ruins the whole <br />book, charming as it is. <br /> <br />There is one girl in our family and I thought this book would really help her and her brothers because this family really loved each other and they understood how special each one was. <br />She said to her one brother whom she didn't want to leave \\"you're the only Matti I've got\\" and he said \\"just remember, you're the only May we've got\\".  I read the book to <br />the kids by crossing out most of the deaths and all of the <br />ghosts and swearing.  After that, it was a really good book.	2004-10-21
US	27463422	R3FNISJXQ1GGKF	006440689X	170518208	On Top of Concord Hill (Little House: The Caroline Years)	Books	5	2	4	N	N	When Ma was little	This book is about Laura Ingall's Ma when she was nine years old.  It reads very much like all the little house books about Laura Ingalls but is even easier to read.  In ma's family there were three boys and three girls.  Ma was the middle girl.  All six of the kids like each other and get along well.  Ma's name is Caroline. Her father has been lost at sea five years ago and her mother works cooking for workmen.  One day Caroline overhears one of the workmen ask her mother to marry him!  We learn a lot in this book like how to preserve vegetables for the winter, what kind of food to buy to last all winter, how to make a beehive, and how to behave when you're invited to a fancy house.  There are also some songs like in the little house books about Laura.  And we get to meet someone who Laura could have been named after. If only our parents and grandparents could write books like this about their lives. This is truly an enjoyable book.	2004-10-01
US	27463422	R13U5Y9L8TR51S	0883659689	791027941	Little House in the Ozarks: The Rediscovered Writings (Laura Ingalls Wilder Family Series)	Books	4	29	32	N	N	What happened when Laura grew up?	Well, first her and Almonzo moved away from their home to Florida on doctor's orders for Almonzo.  The climate was too<BR>cold. Then the heat of Florida caused Laura's health to suffer so they had to find a &quot;happy medium&quot; climate and they set off with their horses and buggy (and little Rose) to find a new home.  They ended up in Missouri and were happy there the rest of their lives on their farm named Rocky Ridge. <br />However, this book doesn't tell that story. It only mentions parts of it in passing.  This is a collection<BR>of newspaper articles written by Laura when she was an old married woman with her child already grown and moved on.  It covers about eight years.  The last article in the book mentions that Ma passed away. The kids were very bored by it as any kid would be reading a newspaper article and I had to stop reading it to them.  I enjoyed it very much as I felt like I really got to know Laura this year through reading her entire series. <br />This book teaches Many, Many things about how to live<BR>a farm life.  One of the most interesting things was how to make a refrigerator for milk and butter without electricity or ice.  There are many amusing stories about the different families and people that lived around the Wilder's.  For example: one day there was hail the size of golf balls and a neighbor went out his front door to get one and bring it in the house to show everybody.  Well, no sooner does he get out but one hits him on the head and knocks him out cold.  His family had to drag him by the feet back in the front door. (he was O.K.)  There are stories about children and parents and farm hands and for all the stories the purpose is for Laura to give her opinions and philosophies.  Do you remember that time when Laura and Mary were little and Laura got a bad spanking for slapping Mary?  Well, to this day (in the book) she still feels she was unjustly punished and I found that very interesting.  <br />If you have read all the other books as I have, then you know how she was raised.  Now is your chance to see what kind of a grown-up she turned out to be. Each article is only a page or two so you don't have to read it all at once to finish a subject.  Yet the book is long (315 pages) so there is plenty to read and enjoy to your heart's content.	2004-06-09
US	27463422	R2ENMTPDL8D4P5	0743253973	586746552	A Separate Peace	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A Seperate Peace	A Separate Peace<br /> A Separate Peace is a story about a high school boy named Gene. Gene is a friend of the most popular boy in his school. His name is Finny. Finny is the best at all the sports and is quite a daredevil too. Finny tries to show off and at the same time get Gene some self-esteem. He does this by jumping out of a very tall tree and landing in a river. When he gets Gene to do it too, that gives Gene some confidence. When thinking their friendship over, Gene determines that Finny just brings him along to all the crazy excursions so that he'll (Gene) fail his classes. That thought is completely ridiculous for someone to think about Finny. One night, Gene finds out that he had Finny all wrong and that Finny brought him because they were best friends. Gene was extremely frustrated that he had his best friend all wrong. In his anger, he jounced the limb that Finny was out on, and made him fall. It is very surprising that Gene did this. If anything you would think that Gene would try to be very nice to Finny to make up for it. Instead, he ruined his best friend's life. When Finny fell, he broke his leg. That was where Gene's life started getting worse. Finny was now crippled for life. A lot was revealed to Gene during the time when Finny was bed ridden. Gene realized how very real WWII was. Since nothing much from WWII took place in America, some Americans at that time developed the theory that the whole war was a hoax. Finny was able to convince Gene that this theory was true, even though he didn't believe it himself. Gene's friend Leper Lepellier was the average person who was scared of everything. When he joined the war, it seemed as false as ever. Gene thought that the war couldn't be real if Leper, the most scared person in the world, joined the war effort. Then, he came back to the school. The war had driven him crazy. When Gene saw this, he realized that the war was very real and that everything that was in the newspapers was true after all. Leperwas hallucinating and seeing things that weren't there. He was going to be given a section eight discharge, but he deserted. That is like a dishonorable discharge only worse. A section eight is what the army gives people with mental problems. If you get a section eight discharge, you would have an unbelievably hard time getting a job. Most people won't give a person with a section eight discharge a job. Leper started talking nonsense when Gene came to see him. Soon after, the meanest person in this book except for Gene, Brinker, held a meeting to try to find out what happened to Finny. (No one except Gene and Leper knew exactly what happened) Leper came to the meeting and testified against Gene, and Finny, disgusted with the fact that his best friend had betrayed him, left the room, ran down the school hallway and fell down the stairs, which rebroke his recently healed leg. When the doctor reset his leg, some marrow went to the heart and killed him.<br /> Thus end the tragic events of a tragic story. Gene ruined his friend's life and indirectly killed him. Anyone in Gene's place would probably feel irreversibly horrible about themselves. This story depicts what a person will do when driven by jealousy.	2004-05-28
US	27463422	RNICXJRY3Q2R	0688310850	107992321	Betsy and Mr. Kilpatrick (English and Spanish Edition)	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Betsy and Her Friends Have Some More Fun	It's another fun book about Betsy!  This time Betsy and her friends are in 4th grade.  They meet Mr. Kilpatrick's nephews and nieces from Ireland: 6 children in all.  Everything is fun and funny as usual.  Ms. Haywood has a way with finding the funny in ordinary childhood situations.  She's like a Jerry Seinfield for children.  Well, I didn't really like this book as much toward the end because the children from Ireland told a lot of stories about faries and leprechauns.  Before this, except for one chapter of Betsy and the Circus, the author steered clear of any such things.  This book is every bit of fun as the other Betsy books.  I read it to an 8 and 10 year old and they enjoyed laughing their heads off as usual with these Betsy books.  But for anyone who doesn't believe in encouraging children toward magical powers, skip the last few chapters.	2004-05-24
US	27463422	RKJJ8YF6TW23C	0060264802	890636088	These Happy Golden Years (Little House)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Laura Grows Up	If you look at Laura's life before and after this book, you will see that the title is perfect.  Her life before this was always a struggle, never having enough, never being satified.<BR>It was the same way after this book.  Sure, things were good many times.  There were happy moments and happy times.  But never in her history before or after were things so consistently good.  Pa and the family are totally successful:  no locusts, no droughts, no long winters. Their wealth steadily increases.  Thanks to Laura's teaching job, they can afford the blind college for Mary.  Laura can buy fancy dresses and hats, She is a beautiful teenager and many boys are asking her out for a buggy ride. She will only go with Almonzo, and they have many pleasant times together.  Finally at the end of the book she is married at age 18.  This book teaches things like the other books in the series.  This time we learn the manners of dating and how a young woman is to act both in her career and in her relationship.  Laura doesn't always follow the \\"rules\\" but we learn what they are.  And Mary asks an interesting question of Laura when she finds she will be married:  Why do you want to go live with that Wilder boy?  It's a question for us all.  Why do we want to get married?  There are a million answers and we all have our own.  Laura gives only one answer.<BR>It doesn't really answer Mary's question and yet I believe the engaged can relate to it.<br />In learning about the Amish I find their life is similar:  a long boring childhood filled with lots of work, married life that is even more work and always a struggle, and in between, These Happy Golden Years where a person reaches young adulthood<BR>and spends a good deal of time socializing and meeting friends and having many happy times.<br />This is the perfect place for the \\"Little House\\" series to end.  But if you're like me, You'll keep reading:  The First Four Years(Laura and Almonzo's new marriage), Farmer Boy(Almonzo's childhood), and Little House in the Ozarks(a collection of newspaper articles Laura wrote as an adult).  Then I guess it will be time to visit the \\"Little House\\" museum in Minnesota!	2004-05-20
US	27463422	R1K2K9JD6CLI8R	0064400077	946496024	Little Town on the Prairie (Little House)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	I was wrong - THIS book is the best Little House book!	(...) But this next book, Little Town on the Prairie, is outstanding.  The Ingalls have a short winter this year and everything seems to go right.  But like we all know, even though we are warm and fed, problems just seem to come along.  Now that Laura is 14 and 15 years old, she learns to care about and appreciate other people besides just her immediate family.  She likes Ida, Cap, Mary Power and Minnie.  She goes to a fancy birthday party for a boy named Frank.  We see that she is becoming a beautiful young lady and she starts describing clothes and hairstyles in detail.<BR>She even buys the latest thing - name cards. And when she sees Almonzo,she says \\"I was just picking up my name cards\\".  MY name cards.  Like she was so totally in fashion forever.  She is very smart and can do long division in her head.  There are many fun social occasions in this book and some exciting power struggles with the teacher, Eliza Jane(Almonzo's sister), Nellie Oleson, etc.  This is absolutely the most enjoyable book in the series.  But I said that last time.  Next will be \\"These Happy Golden Years\\".  It can't be better than this one, but I've just got to see what happens!  I can't close without again mentioning how much you learn in this book.  This book teaches social history.  You learn how to operate a corsett, hoop skirt, and what a lunatic fringe is, and how to curl your hair without a curling iron.  You find out what to do when plagued by blackbirds and gophers, what to do when you're \\"home alone\\", and how to behave at your first paying job.  This book is the beginning of the end of the little Ingalls family.  Mary goes away to college, and soon Laura will become a teacher.  We all have to face it sooner or later, our children will grow up.  See how an ideal family handles it, with grace and love.	2004-03-27
US	27463422	R1FZ3W5TIR1B8G	9990538328	455169113	The Book of Tobit (Jewish Apocryphal Literature Ser.)	Books	3	8	9	N	N	Tobit	I did my review on the book of Tobit from the Bible. The book of Tobit is about Tobit's son Tobiah and the angel Raphael. Tobit could once see, but got sick and went blind. Tobiah needs to make a journey to the city of Rages to get some gold that Tobit deposited in a bank there some years ago. Raphael, one of God's angels, accompanied Tobiah on his journey to guide and protect him. Raphael took the form of a human and said he was the son of one of Tobit's friends. Tobit consented, so Raphael went with Tobiah, and their journey began. Raphael helped Tobiah catch a fish that greatly helps him later on in the journey. That fish has great medicinal powers. Tobiah makes it to Rages and finds out that he was entitled to marry a beautiful woman. Her name was Sarah. She was possessed by a demon. That demon killed every husband that she ever had. Raphael told Tobiah that the fish's heart and liver could repel demons, and the bladder could heal blindness. Tobiah put the heart and liver on the embers of a fire and got ready to go to sleep with his new wife. The demon smelled the fish and fled to Egypt where Raphael captured him. Tobiah got the money and took it, his wife, and half of her father Raguel's animals back home. On the way home Raphael told him to rub the fish's bladder on Tobit's face to cure his (Tobit's) blindness. When they got there, Tobiah rubbed the fish's bladder on his father's face, and instantly his father was healed of his blindness. Raphael chose this moment to reveal to them that he was an angel. Tobit and Tobiah fell down in fear, but Raphael told them not to be afraid. He left soon after this. Tobit composed a very long poem in praise of God. This story's theme is trusting. Tobit had to trust that God would give him back his sight. Tobiah had to trust that God would keep him safe on his journey to Rages, and again he had to trust that God would protect him from the demon. He also had to trust that Raphael was telling the truth about the fish and abouthis ancestry. Tobiah's conflict was deciding whether or not to marry Sarah even though she was possessed. He chose to let God handle it and to just trust him. The author's writing style is Straightforward. He tells exactly what's going on in the story, without giving very many details. This is shown when he says \\"they made camp beside the Tigris River (Tobit 6:2)\\" and again when the author describes the setting simply by saying \\"it was dark (Tobit 7:6).\\"	2004-03-04
US	27463422	R5UC57KRL8R70	0064400069	972177880	The Long Winter (Little House)	Books	5	31	31	N	N	Wow!  This one is terribly exciting!	I have embarked on the reading of the \\"Little House\\" book series, an historical account of the life of pioneer girl Laura Ingalls and her family.  This is the 5th book in the series and it is by far the most exciting.  Pa, Ma, Mary(who is now blind), Laura, Carrie and Grace get a new homestead but they must move into the town of DeSmet for the winter and they plan to build a house on their new land in the spring.  Once settled in, Pa meets a mysterious old indian at the store who warns of a blizzard that will last seven months.  And he is right.  It comes in October and there is still blizzard in April.  It is so cold where they live that there is ice in their bucket of water every morning so they must daily heat it on the stove in order to get water.  To keep warm at night they put what is called a hot flatiron in their beds.  I think they are pieces of the stove that go on burners.  Like all the other books in this series, you learn interesting things:  How do you get your horse out of a hole in the snow?  How do you make a lamp out of a button and some grease?  How do you ward off and treat frostbite?  What do you do when all you have to eat for months is potatoes and just when you can't stand to eat one more potato you run out?  Yes, they actually ran out of food!  It happened twice in this book.  You will learn what happens when a family runs out of food.  You will learn what it is like to begin starving.  You will see what 2 men did in their effort to save a whole town from starving.   You will see how some people act when pushed to their very limits.  The good and the bad come out in people.  When Laura wakes up every morning, there is frost on the nails that hold their roof and walls together.  The blizzard has howling, screaming winds with only one day break between 4 day long blizzards. The trains cannot run at all so no food or goods of any kind come into the town. When Christmas comes Laura makes presents for everyone in her family and she is the only one who doesn't get a present at all.  But she never says this, you have to figure it out.  The whole book covers just this one winter when Laura is thirteen years old.<br />There is one thing I always wanted to know that this book doesn't tell you either.  How does Mary feel about becoming blind?  She used to be \\"friend sisters\\" with Laura and they did everything together.  Now Laura does these things with little Carrie who is now 10.  <br />If you only plan to read one book in the \\"Little House\\" series, this one should be it.  You'll be thankful for your furnace, your roof, and your food.  You'll find out how easy you've got it, and how to be a hero.  I'm not planning to read it again, I feel cold and hungry just thinking about it, it was too realistic.  But I think it was really really good for the kids to see how good they have it.	2004-02-18
US	27463422	R3GUVXSJTBJ4DQ	0152049770	98657845	"B" Is for Betsy (Odyssey Classic)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	At Last - A Safe Haven For Kids	Welcome to a little paradise where a little girl named Betsy is going to go to school for the first time.  She is going to first grade, I guess there was no kindergarten back then.  You won't find any magic spells or dinosaurs or Sponge Bob square pants in this book.  Not even a talking mouse.  Instead real things happen that kids can really connect to.  It all seems so real, you feel like you are there.  This book shows you how to get along in class and how to make new friends.  Betsy sets a good example for our children in being respectful, caring, helpful, energetic and curious:  all the things you need for school.  There is no danger to be scared of in this book and yet the visit to this place is so enjoyable that you don't need danger to bring excitement. The adults also set a good example for us.  They are respectful and helpful and always doing their best. The best part about this book is that there's more.  In the next book, Betsy goes to 2nd grade and surprise!  Miss Grey has also been promoted to the 2nd grade.  The children are delighted and so is Miss Grey.  The book is called Betsy and Billy.  Some things never change.  There will always be friends and dogs and teachers and birthday parties.  Something will always get lost and a good surprise will always happen.  You will always have to figure out your problems cleverly and honestly.  You will find in this book the things that don't change with the times.  You will also find some things did change but you wish they didn't because in your heart you know that that's the way things should be.	2004-01-18
US	27463422	R2X11QXHKWB3AM	0891093672	846924128	Treasure in an Oatmeal Box	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Treasure in an Oatmeal Box	Treasure in an Oatmeal Box is about a ten-year-old boy named Kevin Hallas and his twin sister named Kim. Kevin is mentally handicapped, but surprisingly seems to have a better understanding of love and the meaning of life than most people ever acquire. Kevin doesn't seem to mind that the other kids don't play with him. He seems fine with the fact that his only friends are a black lab named Wiggles, his sister, an elderly couple named the Matthews, and his parents. He is happy-go-lucky and has a carefree life. He and his family just moved to North Carolina from Texas so they don't have any friends yet. Kevin proves that he is carefree when he wets his pants and still says that he had a good day in school even though he didn't meet anyone but the people that laughed at him about his accident. Kevin got his dog Wiggles when Wiggles was just a puppy. He got run over by the school bus (Wiggles, not Kenny). Kenny and Kim saved him (Wiggles), but Kim got all the work and Kenny got all the love. The main conflict was Kim's. She often felt resentful of Kenny. He got all the special attention and she always got made fun of on his account. Kim was polite to Kenny though; she just talked it over with her mom. She was always nice to Kenny and that was probably what kept him going. He had many adventures in this book. He proves that you need to look for the good from within.	2003-12-19
US	27463422	R2IF5KQ78FSDD5	0918222788	266167335	Hospital Sketches	Books	1	4	23	N	N	Hospital Sketches	The main character of Hospital Sketches is Nurse Tribulation Periwinkle. The book is about her experiences as a nurse at a Washington D.C. hospital during the civil war. The theme is cheerful despite the wounded men. One man showed his gratitude for the way she helped him stay cheerful by offering \\"I've got a pair of earbobs and a handkerchief pin I'm a-goin' to give you\\"(Alcott 69). Cheerfulness is shown when a nurse says, \\"Bless their hearts...\\"(Alcott 75) because she is so proud of the soldiers. The Author makes everything more confusing than it has to be. For instance, \\"as we quitted them, followed by grateful glances that lighted us to bed\\"(Alcott 75). She uses this sentence to say that people smiled at the nurses as they went to bed. She often switches from one subject to another without making any indication of it, leaving you confused. \\"At the beginning of my reign, dumps and dismals prevailed\\"(Alcott 77). She says this while she is telling you about the breakfast she is eating. That has nothing to do with breakfast. She is unclear about what she is referring to. The main Conflict doesn't come until the end. She gets sick and needs to decide whether to keep on working there, or go home and try to get better. She decides to go home because her father says, \\"Come home.\\" I think this book was poorly written, and I don't recommend it to anyone.	2003-12-01
US	27463422	R3UTZCLRAZ4VF5	0060264705	399680233	On the Banks of Plum Creek (Little House)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Just Like the TV Show Little House on the Prairie	Remember that show \\"Little House on the Prairie\\"?  Well, this is the book that it's all about.  Here is the family:  Pa, Ma, Mary 8, Laura 7, and Carrie 2.  Baby Grace isn't born yet in this book.  All their childhood adventures happen here:  First day of school, mean Nellie Oleson, party with their friends, and their first real house with a doorknob!  Through anything that ever happens, they know they have each other.  That's why even though some things go terribly wrong, it is an adventure to them.  Even so, by the end of this book, I wished they had never moved from their \\"Little House in the Big Woods\\".  By the way, this is a true story.  It covers approximately 2 years.<BR>The next book in the series, By the Shores of Silver Lake, takes place about 4 years later when Laura is about 13.  This large gap makes watching the show enjoyable because there is a long time period not covered in the books and these are things that could have happened during that unrecorded time.  It is fun to read real history and this book is one of the best.  Find out just what people do when home is a hole in a hill.  What's it like to go to school in your bare feet when most people don't have shoes?  What do you do when a fireball rolls into your house?  What do you do for fun when TV's haven't been invented, the family owns one book, and oh yeah, there are no toys?  Read this book and find out!	2003-11-30
US	27463422	R2O4RG919MCWBK	0152022724	572974536	Gone-Away Lake (Gone-Away Lake Books (Paperback))	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Gone-Away Lake	Gone-Away Lake is about a girl named Portia Blake. She and her brother Foster go to stay the summer with their cousin, aunt, and uncle; Julian, Aunt Hilda, and Uncle Jake respectively. Julian and \\"Porsh\\", as he calls Portia to her dismay, go exploring and stumble upon an abandoned town by a swamp, but as they later find out, it's not actually abandoned. An old lady and her brother live there. Why would there be houses by a swamp? The town used to be a beautiful summer village on a lake. One year, the water slowly stopped coming to Lake Tarrigo because a dam was built on the river that supplied it with water, and before you knew it, it the lake went away, thus giving it the name Gone-Away Lake. No one wanted to spend their summer at a swamp, so everybody left and never came back, except for Mrs. Minnehaha Cheever and Mr. Pindar Payton (the old lady and her brother) who decided to come back so they live in the country. Julian and Porsh meet them and become friends with the elderly people who are overjoyed to have children around. They have many adventures at Gone-Away Lake including starting a club. They need to choose whether to keep Gone-Away a secret or not. The theme throughout the story is that of conspiracy. This is clearly seen when Julian says, \\"maybe it might be a good idea to keep this...a secret for awhile\\"(Enright 62), and again when Porsh says \\"Lets have it a secret for awhile\\"(Enright 62). In the end, they decide to keep it a secret. That secret is broken when Foster falls into The Gulper, a giant mud puddle. Mr. Payton saves him and when he and his sister bring Foster home, they find that they've been kept a secret. The author's style is descriptive because you feel like you're there, seeing all this happen. They become introduced to Julian's parents and invite them to come along to see Gone-Away Lake. Mr. Payton decides to bridge The Gulper and Julian and his friends help him. In the end, The Gulper gets bridged and it looks very nice. Villa Caprice, the most elegant house at Gone-Away Lake, is found and Portia wants to live there. Will they be able to?	2003-11-24
US	27463422	RE931D5JBK8S4	1883937078	977506104	The Winged Watchman (Living History Library)	Books	5	29	32	N	N	The Winged Watchman	The Winged Watchman is a fictional story about a Dutch family, the Verhagens, who live in a mill in the middle of WWII. They include Mother, Father, Joris, and Dirk Jan. Throughout the process of the book there are many additions to the Verhagen family. They include Trixie (a little Jewish girl who's parents were taken away at the beginning of the war), Freya (an abused dog rescued by Joris), Charles (an English aviator), Uncle Cor (a member of the Underground Resistance Movement), Koba and Betsy (two young girls who came to stay with them because of lack of food at their own house), and Hildebrand (a young man who was interested in studying rather than working in the resistance). The Verhagen family eventually becomes very involved in the resistance movement. It is sad when Uncle Cor dies, but the book actually has a very happy theme to it. This book mixes adventure, history, and suspense, and it's okay for children. They do mention shooting and concentration camps, but they aren't graphically described. They don't happen at the same time. They are mentioned as something that happened somewhere else. This book is a perfect example of the spirit of teamwork.	2003-11-18
US	27463422	R2PHP92052TR62	0060264306	507661724	Little House in the Big Woods	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Charming Childhood	This is the first book in the \\"Little House\\" series.  It is a little boring compared to the next 2 books but it is fun meeting Laura and her family.  You see the world in the eyes of a five-year-old.  It is a snuggly world.  She plays with big sister Mary(6), cousins come on Christmas, and they go to a dance at grandma's where they meet many, many relatives.  One cousin is another little girl named Laura Ingalls!  The two fight over who's baby sister is cutest.  Some chapters seem to be long decriptions of how to make things like shelves and bullets for the rifle.  If you're not interested in these things, it might get a little boring at this point.  Hang in there, because Laura is adorable, and you're only five once!<br />Get to know them now, because the adventures continue in the next book, and the next book.  Everyone is growing up, don't miss their precious childhood!  Sometimes I wish they never moved out of their little house in the big woods.	2003-11-07
US	27463422	R2QTY029RY7WQE	0671770810	269609691	Dog Called Kitty	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A Dog Called Kitty	This book is about a boy who's afraid of dogs. A stray puppy comes around looking for food. The Mother of the family always puts out scraps of food for the cats and calls \\"Here Kitty, Kitty, Kitty, Kitty!\\" The Puppy comes too, but the cats attack him. He is about to starve when Ricky decides to feed him. In the process of giving him the food, Ricky overcomes his fear of dogs. The dog is called Kitty because he comes running for the food every time Ricky's mom calls Kitty! They become friends. I think the writer has a unique writing style. He writes in the first person. It is so vividly written that you feel like you're standing there listening to the story of his childhood. The book had a great storyline and was vividly described. The book had a funny theme. I'd give this book 6 stars if I could	2003-11-05
US	27463422	R3MZ05YU593JW7	0394922972	140404120	Tubby and the Lantern	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A rare friendship story	This book can be counted on as a winner for a bedtime story.<BR>First the book introduces our main characters:  An elephant and a boy who live in a little Chinese village making paper lanterns with the boy's parents. The elephant is named Tubby and the boy is named Ah-Mee. When Tubby's idea for a birthday present for Ah Mee gets him in trouble, Ah Mee saves him.  Then Tubby saves Ah Mee.  Then Tubby and Ah Mee save a whole boat of sailors from some pirates.   They come safely home, have a party, and then Ah Mee thinks of a birthday present for Tubby. The book ends with sleep and that's the best way to end a bedtime story!  This book not only puts kids to sleep happy, but it teaches them how to make a paper lantern and a bed!  The most important thing learned is how to be a good friend.	2003-11-03
US	27463422	R11IN99V8I5R87	0553274295	375745868	Where the Red Fern Grows	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Where the Red Fern	Where the Red Fern Grows is a very good example of the love shared between a boy and his dogs. Billy (the main character) and his two coonhounds, Old Dan and Little Ann show a fierce love for each other. Billy works hard to buy them and when he finally gets them he loves them very much and is willing to do anything for their protection. The dogs show the same type of affection to him and in the end, they die for it. In Where the Red Fern Grows, Billy and his dogs will and do go to any means to protect each other....   Billy loves his dogs and his dogs love him back. They will not let any thing happen to each other while they're still alive. Old Dan and Little Ann seem like normal dogs, showing loyalty, but they aren't like most dogs at all. They show the ultimate love almost to the point of human understanding. Many, if not all, people could learn something from the concept of putting others first, not just in small things like manners, but also in much more important things, such as a willingness to sacrifice your life for the lives of others. This world would be amazing if people put others first. If two dogs and a ten-year-old boy can do it, so can we! This book was interesting, touching, and exiting. I recommend it to anyone who likes and for anyone who doesn't like books, this one will be an exception.	2003-10-28
US	27463422	R2MWN7S0CHJ29R	0140344454	213675177	Rascal: Celebrating 50 Years of Sterling North's Classic Adventure! (Puffin Modern Classics)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Rascal	This is a story about a boy with a pet raccoon.  His mother has passed away and his dad lets him have all kinds of pets and even build a canoe in the living room. Rascal is a racoon living a happy life with his family, until Sterling catches him, then it gets happier. He went everywhere with Sterling. Seeing new sights, smelling new smells, it's all a daily routine, until it is messed with by other people who weren't so fond of him. He was caged, and put on a leash. That is no life for a racoon. Sterling decides to let Rascal decide, eternal freedom, or life with Sterling?  This was a refreshing change to read after \\"Where the Red Fern Grows\\" which is about a boy<br />whose passion is killing raccoons.  There aren't many books out there for older boys that don't concentrate on violence.  This is one.	2003-10-27
US	27463422	R1N7NYPWP4HJLR	0060264454	825132395	Little House on the Prairie	Books	5	0	0	N	N	real history	This is the story of one year in the life of a family long ago in America.  They were happy in their \\"Little House in the Big Woods\\".  Ma, Pa, Mary, Laura, baby Carrie and dog Jack decide to move west so Pa would have more room to hunt.  Pa is a hunter extraordinaire and earns an excellent living for the family.  But the woods where they live get more crowded every year so there are less animals to go around.  They pack up and move away from their dear home to a new, unknown land.<br />Their covered wagon makes a great camping vehicle and they enjoy a nice camping trip on their way.  They would stop driving for the day, Pa would go out hunting, Ma and the girls would set up camp, and Pa would come back with the evening's supper.  They cooked it over a fire, ate the leftovers for breakfast, packed up, and were back on the road for the day.<br />When they arrived at what Pa said was \\"home\\", it was nothing but a big space of grass.  Where would they live?  No problem.<BR>Pa knows how to build a house with logs, make furniture, dig a well, and build a stable for the horses.  That Pa can do anything!  The land is free, the hunting is free, building the house and digging the well is free.  By the time they plant the garden, I guess they would have no need of money.<br />But they do get money.  Why?  Because Pa is a hunter, remember?  And a good one.  He sells the furs, and the hunting is so plentiful in this area that he has no trouble at all.<br />The neat thing about this book is that it describes how to do many things:  How to build the house, How to make a rocking chair, How to cook over the fire, and describes a clever way to protect your home from a prairie fire that really works!  Many popular songs are also included as Pa plays the fiddle in the evening.  Some we remember and some we wish we knew.<br />Because of these things and because of the indians, this was a book that my boys enjoyed right along with my daughter.  My husband, the couch potato, even became interested and rented some \\"Little House\\" videos.<br />This is the best kind of history.  It's like talking to your grandma and hearing the real story of what things were really like for real people.  If you like history, you will love this book.	2003-10-20
US	27463422	R3LKLGFMIYUDTL	1883937051	167522099	Five for Victory (Mitchells) (Mitchells Series)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The Mitchells	This book tells about a family in WWII and what life was like. Food was rationed, blackout drills were held, and their father and uncle were in the war. It is funny and touching. Angela is the funniest character. She gives very original names to her dolls. Traincrack and Surshy are the funniest names of her dolls in the book. I liked it when the Mitchells befriended Una, a war refugee from England. It was pure luck that Mr. Spencer was boarding with the Mitchells because Una got to meet him. He turned out to be her long lost Grandpa. My favorite character was Mr. Jenkins, a parrot who always had something special to say. All in all, it was a really good book.	2003-10-14
US	27463422	R39GVZC3KR9VC	1883937140	292988229	Canadian Summer (Mitchells) (Thehilda Van Stockum Family Collection)	Books	5	7	10	N	N	Canadian Summer	Canadian Summer is about the Mitchells' first, well, Canadian Summer. They rent a cabin, go exploring, fall off a boat, go exploring, meet the Jolicoers, go exploring, meet Mr. Magic, go exploring, get lost, go exploring, lose their dog, go exploring, help Peter with his wounded leg, go exploring, stop a forest fire, go exploring, throw a party, go exploring, get a new house, go exploring, and did I forget to mention that they went exploring?	2003-09-29
US	27463422	R33Q0FW5RLJ9L2	0899190642	550362229	Be a Perfect Person in Just Three Days!	Books	4	5	5	N	N	How to be perfect, step-by-step	This book is pure entertainment for the whole family. It's one laugh after another.  You are led by the hand, with the author seeming to read your thoughts. It pulls you in for \\"just one more chapter\\".  You wonder:  Will Milo really become the first ever perfect person?  It makes you ask yourself, \\"what does it mean to be perfect?\\"  \\"who is someone to take advice from?\\" \\"would it make me perfect if someone said I was?\\"  This is a very easy book to read.  Allow 1/2 hour to 45 minutes.  It will leave you laughing, and leave you thinking.	2003-09-24
US	27463422	R9LNIRBO2KIE2	0590412159	238000675	Benjy and the Power of Zingies	Books	1	2	8	N	N	Benjy and his accomplice are  common criminals!	This story is about a very nice eight year old boy who wants to feel big and strong since \\"bully\\" Alex is always humiliating him with wise-cracks.  He decides he will build his strength by eating \\"zingies\\", a breakfast cereal of champions reminiscent of \\"Wheaties\\".  He has a very nice mom who adores him, always packing him special lunches, cooking his favorite dinners, and making his favorite dessert - pink pudding.  She thinks he's just adorable \\"building his body\\".  Little does she know, he's planning to punch Alex in the nose!  He hangs around with his friend, Jason, making prank phone calls and making plans on when and where to punch Alex.  Benjy is neither a brave nor admirable character and loses his nerve to punch Alex constantly while he keeps saying \\"soon\\".  In the end, he is more cowardly than we even thought he could be and the scene of all the little children enjoying the violence is disturbing.  The moral of the story is:  if you're a wimpy chicken who hates someone, then get someone else to do your dirty work and you will be the star of the day.  Is this what we want to teach our children?!  By the way, the kids loved it.	2003-09-19
US	27463422	R3TBVXZG7QOVH5	1883937191	222334694	Friendly Gables (Mitchells) (Mitchells Series)	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Friendly Gables	This book is about the Mitchells. The Mitchells are a family of perfect (well almost perfect) children. The oldest, Joan, is always perfect, saving up for a dress, and trying to fit in with the adults. Patsy is next. She is perfect too. Peter is always getting in fights with the school bully because he is American. Angela is always showing off her blonde curls. Timmy is six. His hobbies include screaming \\"Good news!\\" through the neighborhood, pulling Angela's curls, and setting his little sister Catherine on fire. Catherine is the youngest and is like any little kid, selfish, yet sweet. I liked it because the whole family, even Timmy, helped each other out of their problems. It just goes to show, ten heads are better than one.	2003-09-19
US	27463422	R3BMUTMMX5C580	0689826990	169528688	Hatchet	Books	4	1	1	N	N	The Hatchet	This book is about a boy named Brian. His parents get divorced and he crashes the plane that was taking him to see his dad on the Canadian oil field he works at. He survives with only a hatchet by building a house which gets invaded by a skunk, a porcupine, and finally ripped down by a bear. He decides to build it better and it seems as though he'll be okay, until he has a bad day when he gets hit with a tornado and a moose. The tornado rips down his new house and so he swims to the plane, gets the supplies, turns on the emergency transmitter, and gets rescued.	2003-09-09
US	27463422	RIZUJ5B27GSVV	8427932065	807523541	El hacha / Hatchet	Books	5	5	7	N	N	The Hatchet	The hatchet is about a boy named Brian. Brian is going through an emotional trauma. His parents just broke up, and now his dad lives in northern Canada. He is going to visit him when the pilot of the two-seater plane he is traveling in has a heart attack. Brian flies the plane for a while until it runs out of fuel. He lands it on a lake. He climbs out and swims to shore. He lies there for a few days, but decides to build a shelter when he gets fed up with the mosquitoes. Lots of animals get in including a skunk, a porcupine, and a bear. He makes it stronger, only to have it ripped down by a tornado. He makes up his mind to get a supply box from the plane. He builds a raft, swims out there and then almost passes out underwater when he sees that the pilot's skin and eyes have been food for the fish. He brings the box back to shore and gets rescued after leaving the emergency transmitter on. It's a really good book and you should read it.	2003-09-08
