US	27601358	R3LWW268KLEPIJ	0451198565	941617501	Fair Game (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Another winner from Diane Farr	<br /> Diane Farr is like the best race horse-always a good bet. Even her earliest work is of exceptional quality and should not be missed. Fair Game is the delightfully entertaining story of a wealthy ladies man who meets his match in an intelligent and highly principled innocent with exceptional qualities. <br /> <br /> As with all Farr novels, summarizing the plot does not do justice to the reading experience. The plot may not be unique but Farr's style is. She writes deftly with exceptional grace and beauty about very appealing and well-drawn characters whom she puts in high stakes emotional situations that ring true and completely capture the reader's interest. <br />In Fair Game, handsome and powerful Trevor Whitlatch forgives a huge debt an infamous harlot owes him in exchange for taking possession of the harlot's extraordinarily beautiful twenty-one year old daughter, Clarissa Feeney. Unfortunately for him, his new exotic lady of the night turns out to be an innocent reared at a ladies' boarding school who has no intention of giving her virtue to any man.  <br /> <br />Clarissa will either be a governess or a wife, and Trevor, who has high social aspirations, is not in the market for either, at least not for a bastard whose mother is a harlot. However, he cannot resist Clarissa's honesty, frankness, kindness, and goodness, which is in stark contrast to all his previous mistresses.  <br /> <br />And so begins an intense battle of wills and hearts as Trevor can neither get nor give up on his quest to make Clarissa his mistress, and Clarissa has sworn to never follow in her hateful mother's footsteps, yet she cannot resist falling in love with Trevor.  <br /> <br />When Trevor cannot get Clarissa to agree to become his mistress, he positions her as his ward, while still doing all he can to wear down her willpower. However, everything changes when Clarissa's position as ward brings on a young and very ardent suitor. <br /> <br />Don't miss this beautiful storyof two people who learn to discover the best in themselves and the best in each other as they come to love and cherish one another. This fast-paced, moving, and sensual story will please every romance lover. <br />	2005-06-29
US	27601358	RDALEJ3B7A7O6	0898025486	402797298	The Christmas Collie	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A Heartwarming Story for All Ages	With The Christmas Collie, Mr. Paul has fashioned a lovely story that brings tears of joy to the eyes of anyone who has ever loved another. A five-year-old boy gets an affectionate Collie for Christmas, and the two share many adventures as they grow up together. A surprise twist at the end brings a new joy to the man the boy becomes. With touching poetry and beautiful illustrations, author Ted Paul and illustrator Mary Kummer bring to life a universal story that is sure to please all children and animal lovers. I highly recommend this book for all ages.	2005-06-21
US	27601358	R335LIIHP4O5I8	0553574108	644703491	I Thee Wed (Vanza)	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Relatively fun read	The independent and plain-speaking Emma Greyson is a great gal, but her refreshing personality makes her role as a professional companion problematic. She has lost at least one post in the past and fears losing her present one. She needs money badly to support her sister as they are both orphans.<br />Enter the iconoclastic and fabulously wealthy Edison Stokes, who is on the hunt for a psychic potion and missing book from a secret mystical society he used to belong to. Turns out one villain has big plans for Emma, plans that make her a valuable assistant for Edison.<br />Edison therefore secretly hires Emma, and the pleasing, often funny, banter between Emma and Edison begins. A shocking development soon pushes their relationship deeper than either had intended. I Thee Wed is at its best when it focuses on their developing rapport. Author Amanda Quick is very good at creating entertaining dialogue.<br />I Thee Wed has well-drawn characters, humor, an engaging plot, and a believable love story (though I would have liked for it to have been more passionate), which makes for a pretty good read. <br />The only thing that took away from my enjoyment was the secret society storyline. It was not developed in a believable way so often took me out of the story. Vanza came across as a childish and simplistic society, when I'm sure Quick intended for it to have more substance behind it. As it was, I couldn't imagine why our hero had ever been a member of it. Furthermore, he certainly didn't act like anyone who had ever been a member of a mystical society-he did not have a spiritual bone in his body or spiritual insight in his mind. <br />This lack of credibility in the suspense portion did mar my enjoyment. I hope that Quick develops this portion of her stories more fully in the future.	2004-07-06
US	27601358	R2SG8DIQOV9VYR	0974228702	60523067	The Dark Hills Divide (The Land of Elyon, Book 1)	Books	5	28	39	N	N	Exciting Fantasy Adventure	The Dark Hills Divide-the first in The Land of Elyon series-is an exciting new fantasy novel from talented writer Patrick Carman. Featuring a charming story with a heroine (Alexa) whom all readers can relate to, the book is full of wonderfully descriptive language and delightfully inventive images. This is a highly entertaining adventure, full of mysteries, that every child will want to embark on. Who wouldn't want to be smart and resourceful Alexa as she sets out to solve numerous mysteries and save the land? Mr. Carman has created a rich and intriguing world that children will love to plunge into. Surprising twists and ample suspense keep the reader on the edge of his/her seat. I breathlessly await Book 2, Beyond the Valley of the Thorns.	2004-04-18
US	27601358	R206NTC2FH5SKB	184360406X	739063808	Wicked Wishes	Books	2	8	15	N	N	The Best and the Worst in Erotica	Joanna Wylde's Serendipity is a wonderful story full of endearing family love and trust as well as intense sexual love. This moving and heartwarming story in Wicked Wishes makes it worth purchasing, but don't waste your time on the other two stories. <br /> Marty Chance's A Wish Away has major plot and character problems. The wise-cracking heroine Tiffany is irritating, and neither Zak nor his brother Dran seem at all real-they're just tender sex machines. The plot of catching a killer is over-simplistic and boring. It is not believable that the characters have two safe days to make love and wait for a rendezvous with the killer instead of the killer arriving at any moment. <br /> Even worse is Stephanie Burke's Craven's Downfall. I do believe that this is the worst-certainly the most infuriating-romance I've ever read. The author astoundingly has no idea what the word craven (cowardly) means; she uses it to mean wicked, naughty, or desirous. A quick look at the dictionary would have shown her that these are not meanings of craven. The author also failed to proof the text for typos and, even worse, blatant contradictions. All characters are unlikable, and the heroine, Nola, is inconsistent. Thus, the story is both maddening and boring.	2004-04-06
US	27601358	R21AWOVR66TMT8	050552516X	46816556	Ravyn's Flight (Jarved 9, Book 1)	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Wonderfully Inventive Futuristic Romance	In her wonderfully inventive futuristic romance, Ravyn's Flight, Patty O'Shea creates compelling, complex characters, an action-packed plot and steamy romance.<br /> Ravyn Verdier is a highly trained CAT (Colonization Assessment Team) communications expert on the earthlike planet Jarved Nine. Her whole team is murdered by a mysterious alien life form, and when a nearby Western Alliance Special Operations team comes to the rescue, they too are murdered. Only their captain, Damon Brody, and Ravyn manage to escape the slaughter. As they try to outrun the killer and head toward the planet's magical Old City, their skills, character and emotions are tested to the limit.<br /> It is fascinating to watch the very sensual and realistic development of Ravyn and Damon's relationship. It is also fun to watch the fireworks between Ravyn's brother Alex and her best friend Stacey as the two lock horns while their team and ship race to Jarved Nine to find out what is wrong.<br />With excellent writing and very intriguing plot twists around Ravyn and Damon harnessing and using the energy of Jarved Nine both to develop themselves psychically and to trap the killer, Ravyn's Flight soars above similar stories. It is a complex and emotional ride to which any plot summary cannot begin to do justice. Whether you normally like futuristic romance or not, this stellar novel is well worth your time.	2003-11-19
US	27601358	R30SQVLCYWJKEO	084394692X	894884336	Tell Me Lies (Leisure historical romance)	Books	5	8	11	N	N	Ultra sensual and thrilling	Tell Me Lies is a wild and very sensual adventure that will be of great interest to all romance fans. Talented writer Claudia Dane keeps the story moving at a fast pace while introducing delicious twists that continue to delight the reader.<br /> It is 1715 and the virginal but sensually beautiful Lydia McIntyre is on her way back to her home colony of Virginia (after caring for a sick relative in the Bahamas) when her ship is looted by pirates and she, the only one spared, is taken back to their ship. As the pirates fight over how they will pass her amongst themselves, planning to gang rape her, she realizes that her only hope for survival is to lure the so far absent captain into wanting her all for himself. <br />When Captain Dandridge Prentis appears, he is swept away by the most powerful attraction he's ever felt. The gorgeous beauty tied to the mast in front of him lures him with her passionate eyes and luscious curves, promising the practiced pleasure of a high-class courtesan. He gives up his whole monetary portion to the crew to keep her all for himself but knows that he cannot control their unrest for long.<br />Lydia and Dan embark on a thrilling, utterly passionate and steamy relationship that leads to unexpected gentleness, laughter and companionship. When Lydia finally escapes the ship, Dan is a man possessed, willing to risk all to find her, to possess her. They are the pirate and the whore-yet neither are what they appear to be. When Dan finally tracks Lydia to her parents' home of three years-which is in his home town-the stakes get even higher as revelations and passions mount.<br />Tell Me Lies is thoroughly entertaining, ultra sensual, full of sympathetic and well-developed characters, thrilling situations and is absolutely impossible to put down. Run, don't walk, to pick up your copy.	2003-11-11
US	27601358	R2AUXOINE5BJ0V	0759901147	98712544	Sleighride	Books	2	1	1	N	N	One of the worst romances I've read	Sleighride is truly one of the worst romances I've ever read; it was torture to try to finish it. Any book takes a lot of time and energy to write, so I hate to slam it, but this one, while competently and clearly written, is a stinker.<br />Lawyers Rey Brodie and Kama Roxbury set off for a sleigh ride in the wintery Vermont wilderness after taking depositions at a country inn. They end up nearly 200 years in the past at another inn where they are highly attracted to boisterous Lache and shy Ellie, who are two young fiancés. Rey and Kama from the beginning are attracted to each other but then even more so to this couple, and the feeling is mutual. As the story drags on with little happening other than a slow building to the moments when Rey and Ellie and Kama and Lache will have sex, the reader can barely stay awake. The sex scenes themselves don't ring true but are moderately gripping.<br />The story is boring not only because it's slow moving but also because the hero and heroine are boring generic characters who try to be funny and fail. They share a forced sensual attraction with each other and with the other couple, and they engage in boring dialogue that goes nowhere. Neither pair is appealing nor sympathetic. With virtually no tension, the plot doesn't build and is excruciatingly drawn out through insignificant details. By page 15, I'd guessed the big revelation at the end (it was obvious from the start that this was the only way the attractions could have a satisfactory conclusion).<br />Do not waste your time on this one unless you've already read everything else in the universe.	2003-11-11
US	27601358	R13CWFZAI8V0QE	184360390X	98325965	Taken: A Futuristic Erotic Anthology	Books	4	20	20	N	N	Sizzling hot!	Taken presents three highly erotic stories from authors at Ellora's Cave Publishing, which specializes in erotica. All three stories are well-written and very steamy. But they don't have the space to develop the characters as well as they should for the reader to really care about them as unique individuals and to find them highly memorable.<br /> Dementia, A Trek Mi Q'an Tale, by Jaid Black, is probably the most extremely sexual of the three (which is saying a lot!). Trapped in the jungle of planet Dementia, Dee is being pursued by the huge and only semi-human General Zaab who is determined to make her his. When she trips and falls, an erotic plant holds her captive and threatens to kill her with pleasure. Her only hope of survival is to appeal to Zaab to make her his very own sex slave. This story is fun--almost comical in its over the top scenes--but would benefit from our understanding who Dee and Zaab really are and why they are the way they are.<br /> In Dragon's Mistress we revisit the intriguing futuristic world created by Joanne Wylde in her outstanding debut novel The Price of Pleasure. Dani, a charming secondary character in that novel, here has her own story. Now that she's retired from being a pleasure worker and is traveling as a diplomat for the Pleasure Guild, she is taken aback when Lord Drake Von'hot, the ruler of the planet where she's staying, insists that she spend a night of pleasure with him. Forced by circumstances to do so, Dani soon discovers that nothing is as it seems. This story has a great surprise twist and is more effective than the others in delineating its main characters. <br /> Too Hot To Handle features Jarla, a tough bounty hunter and sexual jade who longs for a man who can really master her. She gets her wish in the slave Thallin, a sensitive but strong and commanding sexual stud who, unfortunately, is the very bounty Jarla is supposed to be hunting. Thallin is interesting--a principled and intriguing hunk who can simultaneously dominate and submit to Jarla--but Jarla is a rather coarse and irritating character.<br /> Still, Taken is an absorbing and highly erotic offering that will appeal to the fan of futuristic erotica.	2003-11-11
US	27601358	R3AWN8JOZKYYF2	1843604477	406049163	The Price of Pleasure	Books	4	20	21	N	N	Sizzling erotica with good characters and nonstop action	The Price of Pleasure is a shockingly explicit romance that features sympathetic characters and an interesting story. This is the steamiest and most graphic novel I've ever read. Joanne Wylde is a master at turning up the heat and keeping it on high. In addition, she knows how to tell a good story with nonstop action.<br /> Calla is a slave on Discovery station in a futuristic world that's been conquered by the powerful Saurellians, a race of super warriors. Sexually frustrated because there are not enough women to go around on their planet yet genetically incapable of finding life mates in women of other races, the warriors who venture forth to conquer try in vain to slake their insatiable lust on pleasure workers in legalized brothels. <br />When Calla arrives to clean a room at the hostel where most of the Saurellians are staying, she runs into Seth, the Saurellian commander, and he grabs her as an intruder. One thing leads to another, and after they experience the most amazing sexual experience of their lives together, Seth knows that he must have her. But Calla is afraid that her harsh mistress will sell her to an illegal brothel if she's caught, leading to her death, so she lies, saying she's married to a man named Jess (who is really her brother). In disgust, Seth throws her out, but he becomes obsessed, seeking out women who look as much like Calla as possible.<br />When Jess is unexpectedly shipped away: sold to be a mining slave on another planet-an existence that will surely kill him-Calla must find a way to save him. With the help of her close friend Dani, a highly experienced pleasure worker, Calla escapes from her harsh mistress and refashions herself as Devora, a pleasure worker and Dani's cousin. And who better to buy her services than the man about to leave Discovery station to pursue some crazed renegades: Seth?<br /> Devora and Seth experience internal and external dangers and adventures as they travel through the universe together. There are a number of twists that keep the reader on her/his toes, and s/he knows that a big revelation and blow up is coming even as Devora and Seth fall deeper in love.<br /> The Price of Pleasure is an exciting and emotional read that is well worth the time. Author Joanne Wylde has created a futuristic world that is in itself very intriguing  and is the background to more novels to come in this series. My only complaint is that the dialogue is often flat-not as exciting and entertaining as the plot and action. Still, this is absorbing read that the fan of erotic won't want to miss.	2003-11-11
US	27601358	RVU36I84LE4FV	0380804514	263499193	Scottish Brides	Books	4	47	50	N	N	Fun Historical Read That Evokes the Grandeur of Scotland	Scottish Brides, an anthology featuring mostly Regency era novellas that take place in Scotland, is a fun read though not spectacular.<br /> Under The Kilt, by Christina Dodd, does a good job of painting two likeable and lusty characters in just 62 pages. Handsome amateur historian Hadden returns to the crumbling castle of Andra MacNachtan, the last of Clan MacNachtan, to again confront the beauty who stole his heart. He ostensibly wants to interview her about the clan's marriage kilt, but the encounter takes a surprise turn that proud and independent Andra never anticipated. This is an enjoyable romp with lots of fire between two absorbing characters.<br /> Rose In Bloom, by Stephanie Laurens, has well-developed main characters and an interesting story, but it fails to satisfy. With Laurens' work I can never quite get into the characters. They somehow come off as an excuse to display as much eroticism as possible rather than seeming real and letting the eroticism grow out of who they are. This novella presents us with Duncan, a young perfectionist earl who's worked very hard the past ten years in the investment world to enable his gorgeous ancestral home to once again prosper. Now he's hosting a Midsummer party to court his visiting prospective bride. But he doesn't count on the presence of Rose, his companion and nemesis from his younger days, who now drives him wild with desire and who, like Duncan, is about to make a loveless match. Laurens emphasizes the fireworks between them.<br /> As usual, Julia Quinn is superb in Gretna Greene, a spirited tale about Margaret Pennypacker, an English woman who rushes to Gretna Greene to prevent her brother from eloping, and a burly Scot, Angus Greene, who saves her from disaster. These warm, sympathetic and fun-loving characters are a joy to watch as they fall in love.<br /> Finally, Karen Ranney creates a beautiful and adventuresome tale in The Glenlyon Bride, a Cinderella-like story that dazzles the reader. More than any of the other stories, this one captures the beauty and the magic that is Scotland. Nearly penniless Lachlan, laird of the Sinclairs, reluctantly agrees to a loveless match with a wealthy English harpy in order to save his clan. But when he meets the woman he nicknames Ealasaid and assumes is his bride-to-be on the grounds of her estate, he is pleasantly surprised at her refreshing wildness and goodness. Together they embark on a series of delightful adventures that culminate in their falling in love and consummating their union. But Ealasaid is actually the proud Scottish-born servant to the harpy, and she thinks Lachlan is a mere castle rustler who works for the laird she knows her venomous mistress will marry. When the truth comes out, a fun twist allows the couple to overcome not only the situation that is tearing them apart but also to solve Lachlan's financial dilemma.<br /> Scottish Brides is an enjoyable read for lovers of Scotland and of historical romance.	2003-10-21
US	27601358	RNCZBDZDYAQPJ	0060511508	264413309	The Further Observations of Lady Whistledown	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Winning character ensemble provides hours of pure enjoyment	The Further Observations of Lady Whistledown is the most delightful romance anthology I've ever read. Full of passion, humor and expert storytelling, these four interconnected Regency stories should not be missed.<br /> The reader is treated to the incomparable, irrepressible Lady Whistledown-the wry, wise and compassionate gossip columnist created by Julia Quinn for her magnificent Bridgerton family series. Lady Whistledown shares her wonderfully entertaining observations at the beginning of every chapter of each novella. She is also mentioned in each narrative, her personality because one unifying force in the book, along with theme, place and time.<br /> All four stories take place during the last three weeks leading up to Valentine's Day 1814 in London-so dreadfully cold that the Thames freezes over and aristocratic families flee to town for winter festivities, some right on the Thames! The stories feature the same cast of characters and 3 common events that all characters attend: a night at the theatre, an ice skating party on the Thames and a Valentine's Day ball. Each story is told from the point of view of a different couple who experiences these events and in the meantime falls in love.<br /> In Suzanne Enoch's One True Love, the very independent and intelligent Lady Anne Bishop is enjoying a smashing social life when Maximillian, Marquis of Halfurst, suddenly appears all the way from his estate in Yorkshire to claim her. Having been betrothed to Max since she was an infant yet never before met him, the last thing Anne wants to do is marry him and move so far away from her beloved London. <br />Max is anxious to return to his beloved Yorkshire but not without Anne, the woman who captures his attention and his passion in a way none other ever has. In the battle of wills that ensues, the reader and Anne come to love the sexy and strong-charactered Marquis, who is a breath of fresh air compared with the other man of Anne's close acquaintance who hopes to capture the beautiful and strong-willed Anne for himself. This is a lovely romance with a satisfying resolution to the couple's seemingly insurmountable dilemma.<br /> In Karen Hawkins' Two Hearts, the supremely confident and flamboyant Liza Pritchard decides it's time to marry so chooses a safe, reliable and boring man while her lifelong best friend, the quintessential rake Sir Royce Pemberley, is determined to stop her from making such a fatal mistake. The lively banter between the two is a joy to watch as each slowly realizes that there can be only one really passionate and happy match for them: what they could have with each other. The friendship between them is just as fun as the passion in this highly enjoyable, quick-witted romance. <br /> In Mia Ryan's A Dozen Kisses, Lady Caroline Starling accidentally meets and falls for Lord Darington, the apparently heartless aristocrat who ejected Caroline and her mother from their lifelong country home after Caroline's father died and he inherited the title. But Dare is actually very different from what his stern and laconic demeanor would indicate and harbors a secret that explains all. This is a warm and passionate romance.<br /> While all the foregoing are very enjoyable, my favorite of the lot is Julia Quinn's contribution, Thirty-Six Valentines. Somehow Julia, with her highly intelligent, discerning and deft touch is able to go just that little bit deeper into character and emotion that makes her work so vibrant, moving and astonishingly real. <br />Susannah Ballister, having been abruptly jilted last summer by the handsome and charismatic Clive Mann-Formsby-who informed her of his treachery by publicly announcing his engagement to someone else-bravely holds her head high while privately nursing her wounded pride. The last person she wants to have anything to do with besides the now very married Clive is his older brother David, the Earl of Renminster, who admittedly opposed the match. <br />But David, who at first befriends Susannah just to make amends for his totally self-centered brother, is captivated by the strong and frankly outspoken beauty. She touches him in ways no one else ever has and brings out a lighter side of his personality that longs for release. <br />For her part, as Susannah comes to know the reserved yet deep, complex and even humorous person that David can be, she realizes that her heart is in more danger than ever. She had superficial fun with Clive, but it is David whom she really loves-and he is even more out of her reach than Clive was. <BR>On the other side, it is equally fascinating to see into David's heart, how he flowers as a person with Susannah and comes to love her with a fervent passion he never thought possible. And the way he tries to court her wins the reader's heart all over again.<br /> In sum, The Further Observations of Lady Whistledown assembles four very strong and highly enjoyable stories in an appealing setting and winning character ensemble that provides hours of pure enjoyment to the reader. No lover of historical romance-or of any fast-paced, colorful and very sexy read-should miss this delightful anthology.	2003-10-13
US	27601358	R32QHT2FOSKC07	0060505249	793121371	Where's My Hero? (A Bow Street Novella)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	A Delighful Anthology	Where's My Hero? is an absorbing anthology featuring three masters of historical romance: Lisa Klepas, Julia Quinn and Kinley MacGregor. Each of these authors takes a supporting male character from one of her popular books and makes him the hero of a new tale. <BR> <BR>        Kleypas' novella, Against All Odds, pits the charming but initially too sensible Lydia Craven against the passionate doctor Jake Linley. Lydia has decided to marry for practical and intellectual reasons, but when she gets locked in a wine cellar with Jake, her handsome nemesis, sparks fly. And a deep but disavowed attraction that has been growing for years will no longer be denied as Jake and Lydia try in vain to resist each other. Displaying a great flair for dialogue and for deep sensuality, Kleypas keep the reader breathlessly on the edge of her seat and thoroughly entertained.<br /> MacGregor takes the reader back to medieval England in Midsummer's Knight, where a tender correspondence between Kenna, a Scottish princess, and Simon of Ravenswood, a brave but landless knight, blossoms into passionate love. But Simon has led Kenna to believe that she is corresponding with Stryder, the earl Simon serves and a legendary warrior. When Kenna appears at Stryder's castle after receiving Simon's latest letter-which sounded like it might lead to a marriage proposal-all hell breaks lose. But what seems like an impossible match due to great class barriers is given a plausible and very satisfying resolution in this tender, ardent tale.<br /> Quinn produces yet another wonderfully absorbing story in A Tale of Two Sisters. Ned Blydon is thirty and has decided for practical reasons to marry the neighboring estate's eldest daughter Lydia. But when he meets her younger sister Charlotte three days before his wedding, a longing he didn't know he possessed awakens in him. The ever loyal Charlotte tries to ignore her attraction to the charming Ned while she slips into an easy, friendly banter with him. However,when her sister Lydia shockingly reveals her secret plans to elope with another man, Charlotte is thrown into a panic. She must help her beloved sister but cannot bear how this will humiliate the soon to be jilted Ned. Yet sly Ned has some outrageous plans of his own in this thoroughly entertaining romp. As usual, Quinn creates amazingly real and lovable characters that make the reader's heart sing.<br /> Where's My Hero? is a delightful anthology that historical romance enthusiasts won't want to miss.	2003-10-13
US	27601358	R28D4DD88ODZCD	0671737791	378094364	The Bride	Books	3	20	26	N	N	A Big Disappointment	The romance genre has progressed a lot in recent years, so what was once considered a classic may now seem rather dated. This is the case for Julie Garwood's The Bride, which was released to general acclaim in 1989. Because of the stereotypical characters and the confusing writing, it took me a month to read a novel that I would normally finish in one or two days.<br /> This is not to say that there isn't some evident skill and humor in the writing as well as some nice plotting (though the plot moves too slowly). But this is marred by the very confusing points of view (one character will have a thought while another speaks in the same paragraph!) and the overly familiar characters. For me, interesting, lively characters are the key to an absorbing read.<br /> We are in medieval England and Jamie, the youngest, most hard-working and responsible of Baron Jamison's four daughters, is forced to marry the Scottish laird Alec Kincaid, who is rumored to have murdered his first wife. In order to improve relations between the two rival countries, both Scotland's and England's kings have insisted on the match.<br /> Alec and Jamie are both strong-willed, lively characters who share some interesting banter, conflict and a searing sexuality. But Alec is the familiar invincible warrior who is a gruff misogynist on the outside with a compassionate heart of gold hidden on the inside. We learn nothing about his upbringing or the pivotal experiences that have shaped his life other than his first wife's untimely death. He remains an inscrutable stereotype for whom I could develop little sympathy or caring.<br /> Jamie is the perfectly compassionate, totally loving and giving woman who is too good to be true. Her only flaw is the nasty temper that clashes so often with Alec's own nasty temper. This too is a cliché in romance that wears thin on the reader as it constantly appears: Alec and Jamie are always at war with each other, wanting their way as they battle for supremacy. But while Jamie is too good to be true in most ways, she is also too bad to be true, showing a shocking and offensive lack of tact when dealing with Alec in front of his men, contradicting and humiliating him whenever possible. This made it difficult for me to really believe she was real or to wholly like her.<br /> There runs throughout the novel the mystery of who murdered Alec's first wife and now endangers Jamie, but this person's identity is very easy to guess from the beginning. A twist here could have given the novel more interest.<BR> <BR>Overall, I found The Bride quite disappointing, especially because of the high praise it received from so many earlier readers. While many aspects of the story are diverting enough, it lacks the character depth, story momentum and overall sparkle that current readers expect from a romance.	2003-10-13
US	27601358	R2ZTZ4THKFVK9J	0451210239	724501138	Under the Wishing Star (Star Trilogy)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Another beautiful, heartwarming romance from Diane Farr!	The delightfully entertaining Diane Farr has created another winning romance with Under the Wishing Star. Farr is known for her lighthearted and exuberant style, which she deftly maintains here while simultaneously moving deeply and entertainingly into serious character issues.<br /> Natalie Whittaker's life is misery due to her spoiled younger half-brother Hector's inheriting of the beloved estate on which she was raised. Hector is a bully and his wife Mabel a peevish hypochondriac who have moved in and treat her like dirt. Natalie longs for independence and a worthwhile occupation, but no options are open to a young gently born spinster. (Natalie never married because she was holding out for genuine love.)<br /> Widower Malcolm Chase is relieved to finally be settling at his country estate with his 6-year-old daughter Sarah. But he is dissatisfied with the disciplinarian governess who's determined to foist rigid obedience onto his very imaginative and sensitive daughter. While he stays at a local inn as the estate is being prepared to receive him, he witnesses a tender encounter between Natalie and Sarah, who is playing outside for a moment unattended. The incredible rapport between Natalie and Sarah convinces him that he's found the uniquely perfect governess for his unusual child.<br /> Of course as a proper gentlewoman, Natalie cannot accept his proposal that she live and work with the Chase family, but her unbearable living situation, her instant affection for Sarah, her desire to save Sarah from the monster governess and the persuasive powers of this very intense man so devoted to his daughter make her say yes in a moment of weakness. However, this is when she thinks that Malcolm is on his way to an estate far away, where she will not be under the scrutiny of anyone she knows.<br /> Stunned to find out that Malcolm will instead be her family's closest neighbor, Natalie installs her own beloved childhood nurse in the Chase home, while she visits Sarah each dayas a \\"friend.\\" Heat builds between Malcolm and Natalie, but who is he really and what is the source of the intense sadness he strives to keep so hidden? And what is she to do about his repeated proposals of marriage to her when he clearly wants only a marriage of convenience and she must have love? Is he capable of loving her? As Malcolm begins to reveal his past and her feelings for him intensify, Natalie's dilemma only grows.<br /> Under the Wishing Star is a beautiful, heartwarming story with several surprise twists that make it all the more delightful. Malcolm, Natalie and Sarah are very likeable and share lovely family interactions, as does Natalie with her nurse and older brother. The growing passion between Malcolm and Natalie is very affecting. The mysteries of Malcolm and even of Sarah and eventually of Natalie's own family are fun to unravel. All these things keep the reader pleasantly on the edge as her seat as the novel whisks her to a very moving and satisfying ending.	2003-09-07
US	27601358	R31TMUG1C5J2VW	0373218966	98493556	Sullivan's Woman	Books	3	12	13	N	N	Nice Atmosphere But Undeveloped Characters	Sullivan's Woman, a Silhouette reissue from 1984, has been re-released in 2003 \\"by popular demand.\\" This romance between painter Colin Sullivan and budding novelist Cassidy St. John takes place in San Francisco and does a very good job of evoking the atmosphere of that city, which is so full of excitement and contradictions. Roberts provides some lovely descriptive passages that bring the sights and sounds of the city to life.<br />The story is simple and predictable-impoverished Cass is discovered by wealthy painter Colin, and they fall in love while she poses over a series of weeks for his latest painting. Despite the fact that there are no twists or other surprises, the story is told in an absorbing way, and the reader likes Cass, who is exclusively the viewpoint character. While I normally prefer to have scenes from both the hero's and heroine's point of view, it works well here to see things only from Cass' eyes because the reader too wonders what makes Colin tick and what his intentions are.<br />Though it is difficult in a novel that is only 219 pages long, I would have liked to have seen more character development for both Cass and Colin. They come off as stereotypes throughout: Cass is the ambitious, high-tempered half-Irish writer who is very honest, intelligent and newly passionate, but we learn very little of her past, how that has shaped her present and really what her present concerns are (other than making it as a writer and resisting falling in love with Colin). Why does she want to write and what specifically are the themes she wants to write about? How do they spring from her life? As it is, we have no idea what makes her tick. It's the same for Colin. He's a handsome, rangy, highly strung, impatient and passionate black Irish man who's totally consumed by perfecting his art. Why? What is his past or present has driven him so? Why is Cass the perfect woman for him? This short novel would be immensely enriched if some of these questions were answered.	2003-08-25
US	27601358	R1Z5ELL6KBYXN3	0380819570	109656677	Here and Now	Books	1	5	6	N	N	Cardboard Characters and Bland, Repetitive Writing	Here and Now begins with a promising premise. A very pregnant Suzanne McDermott, who's just tossed out her unfaithful husband, rescues a mysterious man from the river who, in turn, helps her give birth and heal her broken heart. Charles Garrity has been thrust from the Roaring Twenties seventy five years into the future and has his own broken trust and anger to deal with. Will Suzanne and Charles be able to overcome their emotional baggage to enjoy the true love they slowly find together?<br />The novel suffers mainly from being overwritten. I don't mind much the mundaneness or even the absolute predictability of the plot. But the bland, wordy dialogue and the endlessly repeated emotional descriptions should have been cut drastically: at least 50 of the 351 pages could have easily gone and left a better novel.<BR> <BR>Also, the characters are largely bland and two-dimensional. If they displayed a more complete past, more complex emotions and a livelier feel, then the novel could have been interesting. For example, Suzanne and Charles both describe the other as funny, but there is no humor in the novel, just a bit of annoying sarcastic corniness.<BR> <BR>If you're suffering from recent marital breakup, Here and Now may provide some comfort. Otherwise, don't waste your time.	2003-08-25
US	27601358	R59ITZVBNMEEB	0380789337	232060645	Everything and the Moon (Avon Historical Romance)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Fun and Touching But Characters Thin, Some Plot Implausible	Victoria Lyndon, the seventeen-year-old daughter of the local vicar, is stunned to meet Robert Kemble, the young Earl of Macclesfield, and is even more stunned when he starts courting her. But when their fathers prevent them from eloping-and each thinks the other has betrayed him/her, they are both plunged into seven years of a bitter broken heart.<br /> Victoria runs away from home and goes to work for the amazingly cruel and insulting Lady Hollingwood, as a governess to her impossibly bratty son Neville. It's been seven years since she's seen Robert, but she's been unable to forget him. When he shows up at a weekend house part Lady Hollingwood throws, Victoria is speechless.<br /> Robert is furious: here she is in front of him-the woman who wanted him only for his money and title and whom he still burns for. He's spent seven years in other women's arms trying unsuccessfully to extricate Victoria from his heart. Now he vows to seduce and abandon her to get his revenge.<br /> But as Robert forces his attentions onto a hesitant yet attracted Victoria, he soon realizes that he can never let her go. He won't marry her but he'll bind her to him forever. When he asks her to be his mistress instead of his wife, Victoria's heart is broken a second time, and all she can think of is escaping from the man she will never be able to banish from her heart.<br /> This novel has a touching beginning-the courtship between Victoria and Robert is beautiful and refreshing. However, the subsequent rift between them is frankly implausible: there is no way the reader can believe that Robert would assume the worst when Victoria fails to show up for their elopement, even after he spies her asleep in her bed. He has no way to know her reasons, and to abandon her without finding them out reflects very badly on him. Even when the reader gets over this, Victoria then seems incredible when she is for awhile irritatingly prudish and churlish.<br /> Yet despite this and despite the failure to fully develop Victoria and Robert's characters, Everything and the Moon is often fun and touching. It is especially delightful when Robert kidnaps Victoria and takes her to a deserted cottage on the coast where they must somehow work out their differences. The dialogue and overall sensibility is not as humorous as Quinn's earlier trilogy, but this is still overall an entertaining novel.ly develop Victoria and Robert's characters, Everything and the Moon is often fun and touching. It is especially delightful when Robert kidnaps Victoria and takes her to a deserted cottage on the coast where they must somehow work out their differences. The dialogue and overall sensibility is not as humorous as Quinn's earlier trilogy, but this is still overall an entertaining novel.	2003-08-25
US	27601358	R1LPDEPGFFWSW4	0515128554	608776329	Heart of the Sea  (Irish Trilogy, Book 3)	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Unsympathetic Characters	This conclusion to Nora Roberts' enchanting Irish trilogy is probably the most sensual of all yet it suffers because the hero and heroine are not sympathetic until later in the book. While I enjoyed the magical atmosphere and the vibrancy of the characters, it was hard initially to be fully transported into the story because the leads were utterly selfish and calculating people. Roberts finally humanizes them, but we should have glimpsed more of their humanity from the beginning.	2003-08-25
US	27601358	R20S91HMUG89KN	0380780755	89054331	Dancing at Midnight (Avon Historical Romance)	Books	3	13	15	N	N	Tender and Fun But Runs Out of Momentum	Julia Quinn's second novel Dancing At Midnight is smoother than the first (Splendid) in its transitions between various points of view, but it isn't able to sustain its momentum until the end.<br /> Lady Arabella \\"Belle\\" Blydon-the cousin and best friend of our heroine Emma from Splendid- is tired of trying to find a husband. Having rejected dozens of marriage offers (she's holding out for true love), she takes a much needed rest in the country, at the estate of Emma and Emma's husband Alex.<br /> Belle loves to walk in nature and to read, and one day she wanders onto the adjacent property where she meets Lord John Blackwood, a wounded war hero who's planning to farm the modest estate he's recently bought. Not only is John's leg wounded (he limps) but his heart is wounded from a trauma in his past. Feeling unworthy of Belle physically, socially, economically and morally, he keeps pushing her away. But Belle will not be thwarted now that she's found the only man she's ever loved.<br /> The development of Belle and John's relationship is nearly as entertaining as Alex and Emma's in Splendid, but it is not complex enough to sustain the whole book. So the subplot of a mysterious assassin determined to murder John is brought in, but this feels a little forced. In addition, John's big dark secret is so innocuous that the reader (and Belle) can hardly believe he is so affected by it. It would have been better had he been more responsible for the past event over which he agonizes. Worse yet, John doesn't solve his own main problem in the end-accidental interference by another person saves the day.<br /> Still, Dancing At Midnight is a tender and fun exploration of the relationship between a woman determined to have her man while he is equally determined-out of love for her-to spare her from him. Belle is extremely likable and almost able to carry the whole book by herself.	2003-08-25
US	27601358	R3AJ5Y27SQRAID	0380785625	189030485	Minx (Avon Historical Romance)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Passion and Wit	In her third novel-the completion of an entertaining trilogy-Julia Quinn follows the fortunes of William Dunford, a warm, urbane and handsome gentleman who inherits a small estate in Cornwall from a distant relative.<BR> <BR>Traveling from his home in London to survey the rustic paradise, Dunford meet Henrietta \\"Henry\\" Barrett, the highly independent and unconventional beauty who's been virtually running the estate for the past six years (since she was fourteen). Wearing men's clothing and always boldly speaking her mind, Henry is about as far from a ton lady as one can get.<br />Henry has already determined that the new owner and her new guardian is a threat to her happy, independent life in Cornwall, so she cooks up every scheme possible to get rid of him. What she doesn't count on is his goodness-his warmth, integrity and tolerance-that makes her fall in love.<br />Dunford is stunned by Henry's genuineness and by the force of his feelings for her-he never dreamed such emotion was possible for him. But just when he's about to make her his own, he finds out that he's her legal guardian-and thus obliged to give her the feminine training and brilliant season in London that will attract endless male admirers. <br />The sexual and emotional tension between Dunford and Henry is explosive, and it's a pleasure watching how they eventually unite. Their final conflict is particularly moving. Quinn has written another witty and entertaining novel with enough steam to whisk the reader breathlessly to the end. Already loads of fun, Julia Quinn gets better with each subsequent book.	2003-08-25
US	27601358	R1AJYXJBLGMIJB	0380815575	722221564	The Viscount Who Loved Me (Bridgerton Series, Bk. 2)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Entertaining and Emotionally Deeper	Another entertaining novel in the Bridgerton family series!<br />Here eldest brother Anthony, Viscount Bridgerton, has decided that it's time to marry to father an heir, so he almost randomly chooses Edwina Sheffield, one of the season's hottest debutantes. He chooses her more specifically because he knows she is someone he could never fall in love with. And the last thing Anthony would ever want would be to fall in love: it would be too painful given that he just knows he will die young like his father did.<br /> The only obstacle to Anthony's neat little plan is Kate Sheffield, Edwina's older half-sister, who is fast on the way to becoming a spinster. Kate despises Anthony the rake and will do everything in her power to prevent him from duping her sister into a marriage that she fervently believes will be unhappy for Edwina. Kate adores her sister and wishes only for her happiness.<br /> Anthony realizes that in order to get Edwina's consent, he must win over Kate. But he never bargains for the intense feelings the very independent and forceful Kate engenders in him. And Kate is dismayed to find that, after spending a lot of time with Anthony, she actually likes him. She comes to see beyond the roguish façade. But Anthony is determined to avoid true love at all costs.<br /> Quinn nicely continues in this novel to explore more character depth. There is not as much witty dialogue as in previous books, but this suits Anthony and Kate, haunted as they are by their problems. A lovely friendship and moving tenderness gradually develops between them-the reader can really feel how and why they fall in love.	2003-08-25
US	27601358	R2QKVB7Z8OEQ9P	0553581856	594204929	A Kiss to Remember (Once Upon a Time)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Irresistible Heart and Charm	A Kiss to Remember is a fairytale novel of infinite heart and charm. <br />In a twist on the Sleeping Beauty tale, pert and resourceful Laura Fairleigh-who must marry within the next 3 weeks or lose her home and family-finds the dashing Sterling Harlow, Duke of Devonbrooke, collapsed unconscious in the woods beyond her country estate. Her kiss awakens him but fails to jog his memory, which he's lost from a serious blow to the head as he fell from his horse. Failing to be able to ascertain his identity, Laura convinces him that he is her fiancé, is named Nicholas and that he's used to behaving in the way she secretly imagines her dream man would.<br /> The two quickly fall in love and plan to marry-before Laura's twenty-first birthday and before the arrival of the notorious and fabulously wealthy rake Sterling Harlow, dubbed the Devil of Devonbrooke, who has planned to toss orphans Laura, her mischievous younger sister Lottie and brother George out to bitterly reclaim his estranged and recently deceased mother's estate.<br /> Laura and Sterling's courtship, leading up to their marriage, is fascinating but even more riveting after Sterling regains his memory and determines to bind Laura to him forever and make her pay for the betrayal of her lies to him-just as he made his mother pay by never forgiving her for having given him up when he was a child. His love vs. bitterness struggle with Laura makes for many great moments.<br /> All of Medeiros' characters are well-developed, multidimensional and delightful, and their witty repartee is a pleasure to witness. Sterling and Laura's steamy relationship is all the more compelling because we really know and care deeply about each of them. <br /> A Kiss to Remember is an irresistible read-impossible to put down and full of clever, humorous, moving and thoroughly enjoyable moments.	2003-08-25
US	27601358	R18SVULBG1X5TU	0505524341	440206383	Alicia's Song (Timeswept)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Tender, Passionate: Sings to Your Heart	Susan Plunkett's Alicia's Song is a stunningly beautiful novel replete with searing passion and genuine love. It celebrates the wonder and tenderness of not only an extraordinary man and woman meant for each other but also of that special love between a parent and child.<br />Alicia James, along with her beloved sisters Bethany and Caitlyn, has since childhood sung in graveyards to bless the spirits of the recently departed. But when the three sing for Yolanda D'Arcy, who was widely reputed to have been a witch, Alicia is swept from her home in modern rural Wyoming to the pristine mystical beauty of 1895 Sitka.<br />Alicia immediately encounters Caleb Marker, a devastatingly handsome, passionate and tender lumberman devoted to Mariah, his bright and full-hearted 5-year-old daughter.<br />After a grueling process in which Alicia-a thoroughly modern botanist with haunting violet eyes-must come to terms with the impossibility of her having traveled through time, Alicia takes on the only work she can find: a live-in position as Mariah's governess.<br />Mariah quickly comes to worship the warm, imaginative and highly intelligent Alicia-whom she longs to have as her mommy-while Alicia and Caleb fight the enormous passion that is growing between them. After a disastrous marriage, the last thing Alicia wants is to fall in love, while Caleb is utterly captivated yet wary of the intriguing \\"wood nymph\\" who shares all his values but will share almost nothing about her past.<br />As mutual passion, respect and a limited trust blossom into love, Alicia and Caleb must come to terms with the secrets they have from one another which threaten to destroy the most extraordinary relationship they have ever imagined.<br />Plunkett writes with such passion and wonder that the reader is spellbound. Alicia's Song reverberates with the lush, wild and fragile beauty of a magnificent setting that reflects an equally magnificent love. The exquisitely crafted characters possess such vitality and appeal that the delighted reader's heart also sings. <br />I was utterly captivated and unable to put down this supremely entertaining, uplifting and life-affirming novel. Plunkett's sensitivity, wisdom and magic with words places her high on the must-read list for any romance lover.	2003-08-25
US	27601358	R39SII2TLBKVF8	0451205510	705895903	A Reckless Bargain (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Delightfully Entertaining	A Reckless Bargain is a thoroughly delightful and entertaining novel that sparkles with colorful characters and a very sensual romance.<br />Kit Mallory has immersed herself in books after the death of her emotionally abusive husband, but her greatest delight is her friendship with the lively, outspoken and thoroughly unconventional Dowager Duchess of Wexcombe.<br />However, the Duchess' extended family mistakes Kit for a fortune hunter and sends in the family rogue, Nicholas, Marquess of Bainbridge, to seduce and abandon her so she'll be disgraced in the Duchess' eyes.<br />But nothing goes as planned, and the reader is treated to witty repartee, great passion and relentless opposition as Kit and Nicholas unwillingly fall in love.<br />Kit and Nicholas are thoroughly likeable, but it's the Duchess who steals the show. She is a delightfully crotchety, warm and clever character who is such fun to get to know.<br />Don't miss A Reckless Bargain!	2003-08-25
US	27601358	R26NLKADY6D7LU	0380815583	618770208	An Offer From a Gentleman (Bridgerton Series, Bk. 3)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Passion, Charm and Fun	The lovely Bridgerton family becomes more charming all the time! <br />In this, the third novel in the series, Benedict Bridgerton meets a mysterious lady at his family's masquerade ball who is the woman he's always dreamed of. When she disappears without a trace, he looks for her for years and despairs of ever finding someone he can truly love. Not willing to settle for second best, Benedict wants the intense, all-consuming love his siblings Daphne and Anthony have found.<br /> Then finally Benedict meets Sophie Beckett, a lady's maid he saves from an assault and escorts to work in his family's household. (Here the charm and goodness of the whole Bridgerton family is happily showcased!) Though Sophie is way beneath his station, Benedict cannot banish thoughts of the alluring miss and the intense attraction he feels for her. She is the only woman other than the mysterious masquerade lady whom he's ever felt such a rush and depth of feeling for.<br /> Sophie Beckett, illegitimate daughter of an Earl, is raised to be a lady but is made into a virtual slave by her wicked stepmother and stepsisters upon his death. After she sneaks out to the Bridgerton masquerade ball for just one night of heaven and meets the man of her dreams, her wicked stepmother finds out and throws her onto the streets. <br />Without references, Sophie drifts for years through a number of terrible positions before Benedict appears at a party where she's being assaulted and saves her. She is both relieved and disappointed that he doesn't recognize her from earlier. For she loves and dreams of him but knows that she is not his social equal, and so an honorable relationship between them is not possible.<br /> As Benedict gets to know Sophie, he increasingly burns with desire for her and cannot stand to be away from her company for long. He determines to make her his mistress and will not give up even though she repeatedly refuses him. Sophie does not tell him her reasons, but we know that she cannotbear the possibility of bringing another bastard into the world after she, as a bastard, has had such a horrible life. <br /> This is an excellent Cinderella story with winning characters. There is so much passion and drama in Benedict and Sophie's relationship that it's impossible to put the book down. Also, Lady Whistledown continues to be a hoot as she comments on all the society goings-on. She and the marvelously warm and charming Bridgerton family are the very strong backbone on which this wildly entertaining novel is built.	2003-08-25
US	27601358	R3A7T91ZNZEMUM	0380820846	788536867	Romancing Mister Bridgerton (Bridgerton Series, Book 4)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Complex, Mature, Passionate, Vastly Entertaining	Just when I think that Julia Quinn has written one of my favorite novels, she writes another that I like even better. Quinn is now at the height of her creative powers so far, able to create an intensely warm, charming and vastly entertaining story that simmers with passion, tenderness and depth. The last chapter before the epilogue actually moved me to tears.<br /> Penelope Featherington (whom we know from all previous Bridgerton novels) is 28 and has been in love with Colin Bridgerton since she was 16. Unfortunately for her, Colin barely knows she exists, though he has always been friendly and kind to her. As Eloise Bridgerton's best friend, Penelope has spent a lot of time at the Bridgerton home and is considered practically a part of the family, especially now that she and Eloise are both spinsters.<br /> Colin (who's 33 and still not married) returns from one of his many long voyages abroad, and somehow Penelope seems different-or maybe he's different. He's not sure. As they're thrown together, he begins to notice admirable-and highly attractive qualities-in her that he's never seen before. But suddenly Penelope glimpses darkness and fear in the supremely confident Colin she's always loved. What is the secret he's keeping from her? And can their beautiful developing friendship grow into love?<br /> Here is a novel in which telling the external plot (which revolves around everyone trying to figure out who Lady Whistledown is) gives no guide to the treasures within. This novel is about character and dramatic situation. The characters themselves grow and keep growing on the reader. The Bridgerton family is endlessly delightful. Colin and Penelope especially seem so real that it's hard to believe they're fictional. Colin's own travel writing is exquisite-a joy to read. And there are some really priceless scenes-like the madcap one in which Colin asks Penelope's mother for Penelope's hand: pure and vastly entertaining comedy!<br /> The identity of the wonderfully wise and witty Lady Whistledown is finally revealed here, and my having guessed who she was three novels ago didn't diminish the pleasure in the least.<br /> Romancing Mr. Bridgerton is a complex, mature and vastly entertaining work that no romance enthusiast should miss!	2003-08-25
US	27601358	R166DH6HY01AD6	0505524635	247716777	Bethany's Song	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Passion, Sensitivity, Wit and Intelligence	Bethanys Song is the second novel in Susan Plunketts Song trilogy, and it is nearly as good as her stupendous first, Alicias Song.<br />Bethany is singing in a graveyard in modern day Wyoming with her sisters Alicia and Caitlyn when the River of Time sweeps her away to 1895 Juneau, Alaska. There she meets the handsome widowed architect Matthew Gray, who is as riveted by her beauty and plucky spirit as she is by his integrity and magnetic presence.<br />But both Bethany and Matthew carry deep emotional scars from their past that make it nearly impossible to risk their hearts. Bethany also hides the physical scars of a devastating car accident that left her barren, while Matthew has resolved never to marry again and risk a repeat of two years before when his wife and infant son died in childbirth. Bethany is afraid to reveal her fantastic origin to Matthew while he is unsettled that she will share very little about her past.<br />While they fight their overwhelming attraction, clever Bethany figures out a number of ways to support herself, and Matthew delves deeper into the apparent corruption plaguing the mine he has just inherited. Bethany assists the investigation, and she and Matthew are drawn unwillingly into a passionate affair. It is only when their discoveries nearly cost Bethany her life that she and Matthew are able to acknowledge their love and believe in a future together before its too late.<br />Plunkett creates complex and appealing characters the reader loves and follows with rapt attention. As with Alicias Song, I could barely turn the pages of Bethanys Song fast enough as exciting plot twists unfolded in the unforgettably magnificent Alaskan landscape.<br />Bethanys Song is immensely enjoyable. Plunkett writes with a rare passion, sensitivity, wit, intelligence and genuine heartfelt emotion. Like all of her work, Bethanys Song is not to be missed.	2003-08-25
US	27601358	R2R77KCA32TKON	1551668556	66831105	The Charm School	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Delightful and Touching Adventure	The Charm School is a delightful and touching adventure.<BR> <BR>Isadora Peabody, the bookish, awkward and seemingly ugly duckling of her very proper upper crust family, longs to escape from her stifling spinster's life in 1851 Boston. She manages to finagle her way onto a ship bound for Rio De Janeiro as a much needed translator, to Captain Ryan Calhoun's annoyance. The handsome, talented and recklessly unconventional Ryan in on a secret mission of vital importance, and the last thing he needs is a very proper, dour and strong-willed female like Isadora, whose presence gnaws at the emptiness inside him.<BR> <BR>As Isadora moves from being a timid social misfit to a vibrant, self-possessed and sensual woman-blossoming through her camaraderie with all the crew and through opening herself to the wild and sensual feast that is Brazil-the yearning in Ryan's heart impels him to act, though losing his heart puts his mission in danger.<br /> The Charm School is a deeply moving love story that celebrates the freedom, beauty and goodness of humanity at its best.	2003-08-25
US	27601358	R2U6F4R8M00AWJ	0515128546	913543903	Tears of the Moon  (Irish Trilogy, Book 2)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Enchanting	An enchanting continuation of the family saga begun in Jewels of the Sun, this lovely novel focuses on a hero and heroine who are quite unusual and developed with great verisimilitude. It is a pleasure to watch their romance develop as well as to revisit other beloved characters we were introduced to in the first novel (this is the second in a trilogy). Nora Roberts has created a magical village where we would like to live and a cast of characters we would love to know.	2003-08-25
US	27601358	R18BLIIHX041GB	0380789345	599616151	Brighter Than the Sun	Books	3	42	49	N	N	Fun Dialogue But Annoying Heroine	Victoria Lyndon, our heroine from Everything and the Moon, has a younger sister Eleanor, who is equally independent and feisty. Ellie is walking in the countryside near her home one day when a very handsome and very drunk man literally falls into her lap from a tree.<br /> Charles Wycombe, the rakish Earl of Billington, must marry before his upcoming thirtieth birthday or lose his inheritance. When he meets the vivacious and outspoken Ellie, he realizes that this very attractive miss is the answer to his prayers. No, he has no intention to actually love her nor any other woman. But she would make a suitable enough bride and mother to the heir he must produce while he goes on living his dissolute life just as before.<br /> Ellie is very attracted to the Earl but would never agree to such an outrageous and hasty proposal except that her soon to be stepmother promises to make her life a misery. Also, by marrying she will gain access to the 300 pounds she's made through prudent investments in her father's name, and Ellie is a wonderful businesswoman.<br /> So Charles and Ellie marry-and the fun continues as, amidst a host of mysterious accidents, they come to care for each other. Secondary characters are pretty good, except the impertinent and demanding little Judith, who fails to come off with the charm she's clearly supposed to have.<br /> There are a lot of problems with Brighter Than the Sun. For the first two hundred plus pages, Ellie is nearly always angry. This gets very tiring and seems childish, making her somewhat unlikable. In addition, Charles and Ellie constantly getting injured or sick really starts to wear on the reader. Some plot variation is desperately needed, especially some real action to balance all the domesticity. The identity and motives of the two antagonists is apparent from the very beginning, so their revelation doesn't provide any excitement or much needed plot twists. <br />Everything is so predictable, and the sameness between the protagonists here and those in Quinn's earlier books starts to wear. While her main characters look physically different and have just a few key personality differences, they are all at the core the same. It is hard to believe that every principal character would be witty in the same way. Not every protagonist, for example, should speak in understatement. Quinn's characters need to be more distinctively drawn.<br />Still, the last hundred and fifty pages of dialogue between Charles and Ellie is mostly fun, and their penchant to produce lists in also fun. If only their cute repartee were a little different from the cute repartee in her other novels-i.e., revealing of a distinct character. In addition, the tone here is so light that their emotions are not explored to a satisfying depth. Quinn has a lot of talent, and I hope she can find a way to broaden more in subsequent novels.	2003-08-25
US	27601358	R3NVC5443T7DQU	0380800829	704647865	The Duke and I (Bridgerton Series, Book 1)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	First In A Fabulous New Series	Julia Quinn has a definite winner in The Duke and I! This entertaining novel introduces the delightful Bridgerton family, which happily Quinn will no doubt revisit in later novels as there are many Bridgerton siblings. The matron-tough, independent but totally loving Violet Bridgerton-gave birth to eight children, named in descending order with the letters of the alphabet (clever of Quinn to make it easier for us to remember who's who!): Anthony, Benedict, Colin, Daphne, Eloise, Francesca, Gregory and Hyacinth. This novel focuses on Daphne.<br /> Daphne Bridgerton is beautiful, warm, witty and kind. She's had a very loving upbringing and wants nothing more than to find the right husband and to create a family of her own. But she's not attracting the right suitors (only a really hilarious loser here!); she is such a friend to everyone that no one sees her in a romantic light.<br /> Enter Simon Bassett, the Duke of Hastings. Having been raised motherless by an incredibly cruel father, Simon has sworn that he will never marry nor have children- that's how he will finally get even with his now deceased father: He will refuse to perpetuate the title that his father worshipped. (His father's only interest in Simon was in having an heir to carry on the family name and title.) Simon is very damaged psychologically, and has worked hard for years to overcome his stutter, which was the pretext for his father's rejection of him.<br /> Daphne doesn't know anything about Simon's past, but she and Simon realize that they can join forces to their own advantage: they pretend to the world that they are courting. Simon is such an illustrious personage that this indeed creates a lot of romantic interest in Daphne from others. Suitors start swarming around her. Simon, for his part, is spared from the constant stream of women who've been trying to snag him-they assume he's already taken.<br /> But their plan backfires when Daphne finds herself falling in love with the mesmerizing duke, and Simon alarmingly finds himself growing possessive of Daphne and jealous of her suitors. When Simon is nevertheless willing to lose his life rather than to marry Daphne, the stakes get extremely high, and the relationship takes on an urgency and intensity that sweeps the reader along. It is beautiful and touching watching their relationship grow deeper as Simon works through his problems.<br /> Julia Quinn has made a quantum leap here. The Duke and I has a greater depth of emotion than Quinn's earlier works while retaining Quinn's signature witty dialogue. This makes the story more substantial and the characters seem more real.<br /> Secondary characters are also great. The irrepressible Lady Danbury-whom I adored in How to Marry a Marquis-reappears, still sassy as ever. And we're introduced to the witty, charming and mysterious Lady Whistledown, whose entertaining Society Papers begin each chapter. I'm pretty sure I know who she really is, but that doesn't damage the fun in the least.<BR> <BR> Don't miss The Duke and I, which is sure to charm every romance aficionado!	2003-08-25
US	27601358	RG3ZUUFEGZRAP	0380820854	391607547	To Sir Phillip, With Love (Bridgerton Series, Book 5)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Moving and Beautiful	Like a fine wine, Julia Quinn gets better and better with each novel. In To Sir Phillip, With Love-the fifth in the Bridgerton family series-Quinn gifts us with an incredibly moving and beautiful study of strong character, of the warmth and love of family and of human nature.<br /> Everyone considered Eloise Bridgerton a spinster-not only was she the ancient age of 28 but she was also far too outspoken and independent for a marriageable miss. Little did they realize, however, that she had for some time been carrying on a secret correspondence with her cousin's widower, Sir Phillip Crane. Eloise with a secret? They would have been shocked; the loquacious Eloise never seemed like the type to keep secrets-she usually told everything to her best friend, Penelope Featherington, a close friend to the whole Bridgerton family.<br /> But no one would have been more shocked than Eloise when she received a letter from Phillip proposing marriage! She tucked it away, completely nonplussed, and then the unthinkable happened: spinster Penelope married Eloise's brother Colin, and Eloise felt utterly alone. On impulse, Eloise slipped away late at night on a carriage bound for Philip's estate-she fervently hoped that Phillip would be the man with whom she could experience the deep love and wedded bliss that her elder siblings had found.<br /> When Eloise arrived to meet the stunned Philip (whom she had not apprised of her visit!), he was nothing like she'd envisioned. Rough in manner, reclusively immersed in his botanical experiments and with two hostile children he'd failed to mention in his letters, Philip's handsome and rugged masculinity did little to console her.<br /> For Philip's part, this gorgeous and charming creature was not the prim, plain miss he had envisioned to care for his problem children and to leave his heart intact. After the suicide of his wife (everyone thought it was an accident), the last thing Phillip wanted was to give his heart to anyone ever again.<br />The growing friction and affection between Eloise and Philip is delightful to watch, as is the expert and clever way Eloise manages to reform the two lonely, threatened children who are determined to do everything possible to get rid of her.  When Eloise's enraged brothers arrive on the scene, a whole new and enjoyable dimension of family interaction takes off.<br /> Like her previous work, Julia Quinn's latest exceptional novel cannot be done justice to by any plot summary. Her expertise is in the richness of character and of situation. Take, for example, the endearing and exquisite scenes on Eloise's wedding night: She and her mother Violet have a talk that movingly expresses the lifelong love they've felt for each other. Then later that night Eloise and Phillip experience lighthearted laughter with one another in the midst of a serious revelation that cements their bond all the more. Quinn is able to pull this off without diminishing-in fact, at the same time strengthening-the passion between them. Again, Quinn delves profoundly into emotions on the carriage ride that develops the companionship and honesty between the couple. These jewel-like scenes grace the entire book, making it glisten-all the way to Philip's romantic and heartwarming gesture of love at the end.<br /> This book-and the whole Bridgerton family series-is joyfully required reading for the lover of romance. Don't miss it!	2003-08-25
US	27601358	R1MTXHUQY20I74	0380780747	232060645	Splendid (Avon Historical Romance)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Vibrant Characters and Sparkling Repartee	Julia Quinn's first novel, Splendid, is unusual and entertaining. Unusual in its mixture of points of view and entertaining in its wry wit.<br /> American shipping heiress Emma Dunster loves to help run her father's business and isn't pleased when she's shipped off to England to live with her Aunt's family for a London season.<br /> Emma and her cousin Belle are both intelligent, strong-willed, vivacious and mischievous. When Emma dresses up as a kitchen maid so that she can go to market unescorted, she saves a child's life and falls into the arms of the child's uncle, Alexander Ridgeley, the Duke of Ashbourne.<br /> A notorious rake, Alex has no intention of falling in love or of wedding. But he cannot resist spending more and more time with the spunky and charming Emma. Their relationship becomes deeper, but neither wants to admit that it's love-until it's unbearable.<br /> Splendid has a simple, relatively uneventful plot but the vibrant characters and their sparkling repartee holds the reader's attention. Julia Quinn's comical Jane Austen-like perspective works, even though at times it is confusing when the point of view switches between characters or to Quinn's disembodied narrative voice all within a single paragraph. This head hopping took me out of the narrative and diminished some of the pleasure.<br />Still, Splendid is a witty, entertaining novel full of likeable characters and overall a joy to read.	2003-08-25
US	27601358	R3QOT61VD8OM6S	0553575023	661656288	Charming the Prince (Once Upon a Time)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Fun Fairytale with Good Plot Twists	Teresa Medeiros excels at fairytale based romances, and Charming the Prince is no exception. The novel begins as if it were Cinderella meets The Sound of Music then spins an unusual twist on each.<br />As a child (in 1347 England), Lady Willow of Bedlington was displaced in her father's affections by a greedy and heartless stepmother whose many brats Willow was forced to help raise. When Willow finally escapes her servitude to marry a distant \\"prince\\" she's never met-Lord Bannor the Bold-she's crestfallen to discover that her new husband had twelve brats of his own and is seemingly repulsed by her. (Actually, he is so attracted to her he must keep her at a distance to avoid fathering a child with her as he already has more children that he wants.) To make matters worse, the children are a terror and as hostile to her as she is to them.<br />Willow and the children finally form a truce in an unexpected way while Bannor turns out to be harboring a secret the reader next suspects. Willow seeks help in the most unlikely place, and after more surprising plot twists, Willow and Bannor triumph.<br />In sum, this is a highly unusual and surprising romance novel that works even better with its strange plot twists. It didn't stir my emotions as deeply as some books have, but its many characters are lively and well-drawn, and the story is engaging. For a pleasant and absorbing read, don't miss Charming the Prince.	2003-08-25
US	27601358	R8TGZ8XGW1AMO	0451203852	612177562	A Diamond in the Rough (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A Diamond of a Novel	With its likeable characters and entertaining plot, A Diamond in the Rough is an intelligent and charming novel. And it pays an added dividend to anyone interested in the golfing technique and gardening design of the early 1800's.<BR> <BR>Miss Derrien Edwards, a feisty and highly intelligent Scottish lass, disguises herself as a male caddie to be able to play her favorite game, golf, at St. Andrew's Old Course. She's equally wild about designing gardens and has just covertly received her first landscaping design commission.<br />The last thing she wants is to caddie for an apparently gambling English Lord, Adrian Linsley, Viscount Marquand (such a man ruined her mother many years before and resulted in her birth). But she owes her golf instructor Hugh Phelps, the Stradivarius of club design (and a real person), this favor and also despises Marquand's golf opponent, the dissolute Lord Hertford, even more than she does Marquand.<br />During the month before the competition (which Marquand must win to save his ancestral estate from his father's gambling), Derrien (as herself) enthusiastically discusses gardening with the annoyingly attractive Marquand, who is engage to marry an English beauty. And, disguised as the male caddy Derry, she teaches him the intricacies of golf. His intelligence, determination, surprisingly high character and fascinating garden designs win Derrien's regard against her will. <br />And what is the honorable Marquand to do when he falls head over heels for the pert Derrien when he's already pledged to another?<br />A Diamond in the Rough wins the reader with its amusing dialogue, exciting events and enjoyable characters. It's a top quality Regency that I heartily recommend.	2003-08-25
US	27601358	R1S6NPYZUS9L31	0446609188	114151495	Then Comes Marriage	Books	2	9	9	N	N	Cardboard Characters and a Snail-like Plot	Kasey Michaels has a witty style that almost manages to win over the reader. I say almost because, unfortunately, her sense of humor does not make up for the lack of character development and slow pace that characterizes Then Comes Marriage. <br />Brady James, the Earl of Singleton, is attacked on the streets of Regency London, beaten, wrapped in chains and cast into the Thames. But Brady lives and spends the rest of the novel closing in on his would-be killers. By his side is penniless actress Regina Bliss, whose parents apparently died at the hands of Brady's assailants. With romantic sparks flying, Brady and Regina team up, along with Regina's traveling player friends, to expose the villains. To amusing effect, Brady impersonates his fictitious cousin Gawain Caradoc, an effeminate dandy whose ridiculous clothing and wimpy manner soon becomes a joke that's beaten to death. <br />It's hard to stay interested in the story because Brady and Regina are given almost no inner life until very late and then not enough. The plot drags slowly on, and then the reader is never given a credible reason why the villains tried to kill Brady; he'd uncovered nothing when asking questions about Regina's past (the motive or rather pretext for his attack). <br />Then Comes Marriage shows that even fairly entertaining banter cannot save a story whose characters and plot never achieve a feeling of reality.	2003-08-25
US	27601358	R2MXIZIGT5SIB	0380800810	901291495	How to Marry a Marquis (Avon Romantic Treasure)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Entertaining Romp	How To Marry A Marquis is my favorite Julia Quinn novel so far. It showcases her talent with delightful, witty dialogue with fewer of the plot and character problems evident in some of her earlier efforts.<br /> Elizabeth Hotchkiss has been barely able to support her three younger siblings for the last five years since her father died and she went to work as a companion for Lady Danbury. Lady D, as she's affectionately called, is a forceful, outspoken older matron with a heart of gold buried under her intimidating exterior. Elizabeth, a self-possessed and outspoken young woman herself, is one of the only people who can hold her own with Lady D. <br />Kind, generous, warm and witty, Elizabeth cannot, however, be carefree. Her life is clouded by the despair of her imminent failure to provide enough food for the family to eat (it is hard to support four on the salary meant for one). She realizes she has no option but to marry for money. When she finds a slim book entitled How To Marry A Marquis in Lady D's library, Elizabeth first resists the temptation but soon is reading the rather hilarious advice offered there.<br />In the meantime, Lady D has summoned her beloved nephew, whom she raised, to come to her estate and pose as her estate manager while he tries to determine who is blackmailing her. James Sidwell, the Marquis of Riverdale, has unsuccessfully tried to find a woman to marry who could see past his wealth and title to the real man. He's almost grateful to be summoned to his Aunt's as he is so weary of the conniving, grasping women he's been meeting in London. Having worked for ten years as a spy for the War Office, he is used to operating undercover.<br />What James is not used to is meeting a woman as intelligent, witty and refreshing as Elizabeth. He convinces himself that he's cultivating her acquaintance to investigate if she could possibly be the blackmailer, but his heart knows better. When he catches the mortified Elizabeth with the Marquis book, he offers to give her lessons in how to find a husband.<BR> <BR>But the more time they spend together, the more Elizabeth is sure she could never love anyone but the humble estate manager who inflames her senses every time he is near. And James soon realizes that he could never bear to see Elizabeth in anyone's arms but his own. But when James' true identity is revealed at the wrong moment, he fears he may have lost Elizabeth forever. <br />The real nature of the blackmail scheme was transparent from the moment it was introduced, but this didn't really mar the story (though it could have been fun had it come as more of a surprise). How To Marry A Marquis is a very entertaining romp that explores a broader range of emotions than Quinn usually tackles and to delightful results. It is a lot of fun watching the developing relationship between Elizabeth and James, two very likeable characters who strongly carry the novel to the end without the need for complex plot twists (though it would be nice if Quinn would give the reader some unexpected plot some of the time). For an enjoyable light read, I warmly recommend How To Marry A Marquis.	2003-08-25
US	27601358	R3ZXWTVMIWFVP	0553581856	594204929	A Kiss to Remember (Once Upon a Time)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Irresistible Heart and Charm	A Kiss to Remember is a fairytale novel of infinite heart and charm. <br />In a twist on the Sleeping Beauty tale, pert and resourceful Laura Fairleigh-who must marry within the next 3 weeks or lose her home and family-finds the dashing Sterling Harlow, Duke of Devonbrooke, collapsed unconscious in the woods beyond her country estate. Her kiss awakens him but fails to jog his memory, which he's lost from a serious blow to the head as he fell from his horse. Failing to be able to ascertain his identity, Laura convinces him that he is her fiancé, is named Nicholas and that he's used to behaving in the way she secretly imagines her dream man would.<br /> The two quickly fall in love and plan to marry-before Laura's twenty-first birthday and before the arrival of the notorious and fabulously wealthy rake Sterling Harlow, dubbed the Devil of Devonbrooke, who has planned to toss orphans Laura, her mischievous younger sister Lottie and brother George out to bitterly reclaim his estranged and recently deceased mother's estate.<br /> Laura and Sterling's courtship, leading up to their marriage, is fascinating but even more riveting after Sterling regains his memory and determines to bind Laura to him forever and make her pay for the betrayal of her lies to him-just as he made his mother pay by never forgiving her for having given him up when he was a child. His love vs. bitterness struggle with Laura makes for many great moments.<br /> All of Medeiros' characters are well-developed, multidimensional and delightful, and their witty repartee is a pleasure to witness. Sterling and Laura's steamy relationship is all the more compelling because we really know and care deeply about each of them. <br /> A Kiss to Remember is an irresistible read-impossible to put down and full of clever, humorous, moving and thoroughly enjoyable moments.	2003-08-25
US	27601358	R33V0YREEGFNGH	0515126772	914501828	Jewels of the Sun: The Gallaghers of Ardmore Trilogy (Irish Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Realistic Characters in a Fairy Tale Setting	An enchanting setting and a passionate fairy tale provide the charming background to this contemporary story that explores the complexity, independence and passion of two people from different worlds. The characters feel so real that you expect them to walk out of the pages and start breathing. A very fun and satisfying romance.	2003-08-25
US	27601358	R1DZRPK7NI01BR	0380789353	36693015	To Catch an Heiress	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Pleasant and Absorbing Romp	To Catch An Heiress is a funny, lighthearted comedy of manners featuring the witty dialogue that Julia Quinn has become known for. <br /> Caroline Trent, orphan and soon-to-be heiress, is sick of her evil and greedy guardian's attempts to force her to marry his son, especially after an ill-conceived attempted rape! Fleeing her guardian's estate on horseback, she plans to hide out for six weeks (until her twenty-first birthday), at which time she will receive her inheritance. She doesn't plan to be kidnapped, but soon she's abducted by the handsome and honorable Blake Ravenscroft and whisked away to his estate.<br /> Blake is sick of his work spying for the crown but has agreed to do this one last job to unmask a dangerous local spy ring believed to be associated with Caroline's guardian. Having never met the notorious Spanish spy named Carlotta De Leon, he mistakes Caroline for her and dismisses Caroline's protestations to the contrary. He holds Caroline prisoner pending a confession and is furious with himself that he's so attracted to the enchanting beauty.<br /> By the time Blake's close friend James Sidwell (the hero of Quinn's subsequent novel How To Marry A Marquis) arrives and confirms that Caroline is not Carlotta, Blake and Caroline are in love but won't admit it to themselves or to each other. What follows is some great banter between Caroline, Blake and James as they plot together to bring the traitorous spy ring to justice while Caroline and Blake fall deeper in love. But all the joking about killing each other as well as the nonstop cursing gets to be too much. Still, Quinn creates a warm comraderie among the three and a fun character in Blake's sister Penelope.<br /> There are no surprises or deep, moving scenes in this novel (okay, maybe one: when Blake and Caroline first make love on the beach), but it is an overall pleasant and absorbing romp that features action, danger, passion and love.	2003-08-25
US	27601358	R28134A2UYULYA	0380797097	780643682	When Dreams Come True	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Exciting, Passionate Tale	Cathy Maxwell is a wonderful writer whose fairytale yet richly developed characters and stories never fail to delight!<BR> <BR>When Dreams Come True is the entertaining story of the ravishing Eden, a woman of great compassion, generosity and integrity who had the misfortune to be raised for a life as a courtesan. A virgin yet thoroughly schooled in the art of lovemaking, she's sold to a foreign sheik for an astronomical sum. Escaping in a dingy during a storm at sea, Eden finds herself washed onto the shores of Cornwall and into the arms of the handsome, gallant and highly principled Pierce Kirrier, Lord Penhollow.<br />Villagers believe she is the answer to their magical incantations for a bride for the Lord. Eden and Pierce's courtship while she recovers at his gorgeous estate is exciting and moving. But with Pierce's mother dead set against her and her enslavers searching for her all over England, Eden must struggle with the warring instincts of her passionate attraction to Pierce and her determination to protect him from her past. <br />This is an exciting tale of passion, loyalty, suspense and friendship. Most of all, it is a lot of fun. You won't want to put this one down, so be sure to start reading when you have a few hours of free time ahead of you.	2003-08-24
US	27601358	R1HB2M48KDVEEP	0380797097	780643682	When Dreams Come True	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Exciting, Passionate Tale	Cathy Maxwell is a wonderful writer whose fairytale yet richly developed characters and stories never fail to delight!<BR> <BR>When Dreams Come True is the entertaining story of the ravishing Eden, a woman of great compassion, generosity and integrity who had the misfortune to be raised for a life as a courtesan. A virgin yet thoroughly schooled in the art of lovemaking, she's sold to a foreign sheik for an astronomical sum. Escaping in a dingy during a storm at sea, Eden finds herself washed onto the shores of Cornwall and into the arms of the handsome, gallant and highly principled Pierce Kirrier, Lord Penhollow.<br />Villagers believe she is the answer to their magical incantations for a bride for the Lord. Eden and Pierce's courtship while she recovers at his gorgeous estate is exciting and moving. But with Pierce's mother dead set against her and her enslavers searching for her all over England, Eden must struggle with the warring instincts of her passionate attraction to Pierce and her determination to protect him from her past. <br />This is an exciting tale of passion, loyalty, suspense and friendship. Most of all, it is a lot of fun. You won't want to put this one down, so be sure to start reading when you have a few hours of free time ahead of you.	2003-08-24
US	27601358	R1WIS4YB01I8G6	0451203844	266008294	Evening Star (Star Series)	Books	5	22	25	N	N	Engrossing ride through the gamut of human emotions	Evening Star is one of those rare wonderful books that the reader feels forlorn after it is over. Our hero and heroine, Alex Saxton and Giana Van Cleve, are such well-drawn and fascinating human beings that they become the reader's riveting intimate friends as their very realistic yet exciting lives are played out in a delightfully sensual, heartbreakingly emotional and always entertaining plot with endless twists. The novel is so engrossing that I had to read its 420 pages in one sitting.<BR> <br />The willfully independent Giana is saved from the matrimonial clutches of a cunning fortune hunter when her wealthy shipbuilding mother Aurora sends her from London to Rome for a very enlightening summer education with her Uncle Daniele. What Aurora doesn't know is that Daniele not only gives her a glimpse of the seedier side of life but makes her hang out in a high class brothel posing as one of its girls, though no one is allowed to touch her. <br />Her ultimate test is her posing as one of the virgins to be sold at the astounding Roman Flower Auction. But nothing goes as planned, and Alex Saxton wins the bid for the intriguing and saucy Giana. <br />Four years after her incredible escape from him and his festering humiliation, he encounters her again in London-a formidable opponent in a major business negotiation. He becomes obsessed with revenge, and the desire to have her no matter what. What he gets is something he never bargained for. <br />For a breathtaking and thoroughly entertaining ride through the gamut of human emotions, don't miss Evening Star. Like many Catherine Coulter novels, it's a sure bet.	2003-08-24
US	27601358	R2GZTQA5SVQ025	0743436806	37984483	Once Upon a Pillow	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Surprising Emotional Depth	In Once Upon A Pillow expert novelists Christina Dodd and Connie Brockway have taken an unusual idea and created a provocative anthology. Covering medieval, Elizabethan, Regency and contemporary times, they follow the passionate and amusing 800-year history of a very special bed.<BR> <BR> Every story is fast-paced, entertaining and full of surprising emotional depth, given that they average only 80 pages each. Characters are brought to life with humor and passion, and their witty repartee is fun to read.<br /> Though I prefer novel-length treatment of stories, I enjoyed this anthology more than I'd have ever expected. Dodd and Brockway have a way of turning anything they write into a delightful adventure through the fascinating range of human emotions, culminating in a satisfying feeling of genuine love.	2003-08-24
US	27601358	R1ELTABHYDQA27	0061081531	474306596	The Greatest Lover in All England (Harper Monogram)	Books	5	23	25	N	N	Delightful Characters and Fascinating Plot	Christina Dodd has a talent for creating delightful characters and fascinating plots. And she perfectly captures the merriness and the danger of colorful life in late Elizabethan England in her excellent novel, The Greatest Lover In All England. <br />Since her narrow escape from danger as a small child, orphaned Rosie has been raised by her beloved father figure, the notorious actor Daniel Plympton. Danny, Rosie and their jolly acting troupe flee London when Danny's life is endangered by his discovering a powerful plot against Queen Elizabeth.<BR> <BR>They arrive at Odyssey Manor, the estate of the dashing Sir Anthony Rycliffe, the master of the Queen's Guard. Rosie, now twenty-one, has always acted with the troupe, disguised as a boy who plays women's roles. As sparks fly between Rosie and Tony and they narrowly escape an assassin, Tony discovers that their love is threatened by puzzling memories from Rosie's past and that seemingly everyone has a motive to kill at least one of them. Revelations from Rosie's past pit her against Tony, and their witty sparring and romantic tension is one of the pleasures of the book.<br />This fast-paced romantic suspense novel keeps us constantly entertained and guessing as we root for the sympathetic and charming Rosie and Tony. Supporting characters such as Danny, Lady Honora and Uncle Will (William Shakespeare) are well developed and equally delightful. Dodd has created an especially lively portrait of Queen Elizabeth. Humor and pathos pull us through a wide range of emotions as we race through the novel's many surprises. This thoroughly engaging story pleasantly transports us to a wild and creative moment in history, which we experience through fun and likable characters.	2003-08-24
US	27601358	R1G0R9JNCFOVCW	0060002050	10081740	On a Wicked Dawn (Cynster Novels)	Books	2	6	9	N	N	Bad Characters and Bad Story	On A Wicked Dawn certainly has the most frequent and elaborate sex scenes that can be crammed into a novel of this length (421 pages). If a reader simply wants to read about sex between a man and woman who love each other but won't admit that love, then this is the book. Unfortunately, if a reader is looking for realistic characters and a compelling story, On A Wicked Dawn will not supply them. <br /> Amelia Cynster is the perfect woman-loving, devoted, loyal, active, generous, beautiful and blessed with a huge sexual appetite for the only man she's ever wanted to marry: Lucien `Luc' Ashford, Viscount Calverton, a handsome, devoted, loyal and infinitely passionate family man who-surprise-is not good at expressing his emotions (Aren't we getting sick already of this emotionally blocked male stereotype? Especially when the character is not brought alive in other ways?) Luc is used to being in control, and he's thrown for a loop when Amelia, out of the blue, suggests that they marry, though he desires the match as much as she does. <br />What follow is 200 pages of his slowly initiating her into sex then rushing into marrying her when he can no longer resist his fierce desire to possess her completely. The next 200 pages detail their deepening sexual relationship after they marry. But it is hard to care about this couple-or their ongoing fears about declaring their love to one another (they supposedly marry because she wants him to have her dowry to keep his family afloat, and she can't find anyone else she wants to marry)-when they are so stereotypical and never think, say or do anything to make them unique or even interesting individuals. <br />Luc's series of realizations-which are embarrassingly repetitive-fail to reveal anything other than that he loves Amelia and is afraid of the power this gives her over him. In addition, details of sexual events and their accompanying emotions are often described as if occurring for the first time in their relationship, whereasthe same `revelations' are actually repeated again and again as if they were new in subsequent scenes. Hence the reader feels lied to by the author.<br />The sex is so overblown that it becomes corny rather than truly sensual. The sex would have been more effective if we could have seen more passionate and caring happenings between Luc and Amelia outside the bedroom. They think about their love for each other, but we rarely see it in action aside from them expressing their lust. So they come off more as sex machines than as real people.<br />The bland, unsurprising subplot concerning a thief among them fails to raise interest. I could have put the book down at any moment and not missed reading the rest. I never feel this way when characters are interesting-even when the story, like this one, is predictable and uneventful.	2003-08-24
US	27601358	RP3ZMPKQZIY9O	050552354X	489560477	Dark Desire (The Carpathians (Dark) Series, Book 2)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Wild, Scary and Immensely Sensual Ride	Dark Desire is Christine Feehan's second novel in the marvelous Dark series, and it is even more intense than the first.<br />Jacques has been a powerful protector of his people, the Carpathians of Eastern Europe, for hundreds of years. He uses his enormous supernatural mental and physical powers to hunt and destroy vampires and to protect the weak. However, his abilities to see colors and to feel emotions have withered. He's trapped in a bleak, solitary existence, for he has not found his lifemate-the one female who is the other half of his soul, the light to his darkness. His predatory instincts have intensified, and his darkness threatens to overwhelm him so that he is close to turning into a vampire. He must find his mate soon.<br />To make matters worse, evil human vampire hunters are convinced he is a vampire. With the help of a mysterious vampire who hates Jacques, the humans catch and torture Jacques mercilessly, driving a stake near his heart and burying him alive. Jacques manages to live on for seven years, attracting small animals into his coffin and drinking their blood for sustenance. His hatred of his torturers and his need for revenge are a growing cancer in his soul that keeps him alive.<br />During this time Jacques is mentally aware of a human woman, a doctor whom he thinks is linked to the group that tortured him. In his extreme state of weakness, she is the only person left that he can contact through his mind. He often inflicts his pain on her, enraged that she refuses to come free him-seeing this as evidence of her guilt.<br />Shea O'Halloran is a gifted American surgeon, full of goodness and compassion for her patients. She is puzzled as to why she is sometimes seized with pain and often has dreams in which she sees a man's tortured face. She has always been a loner, afraid of contact with others because of the bizarre blood disorder she has been unable to identify or cure. She often requires transfusions to stay alive. She decides to go the Carpathian mountains, the birthplace of the father she never knew, in order to further her research in the hope of finding a cure for her condition.<br />Instead, she is drawn to a hidden cellar where she finds Jacques buried! Although he attacks her, she rescues him and nurses him back to health. Jacques comes to realize that she is not one of his tormentors but the lifemate he'd been searching for over centuries. He possessively burns for her and can barely prevent himself from claiming her, body and soul, against her will.<br />Shea is horrified to feel such a strong pull to Jacques. And not only because he's lost all memory of his life prior to his burial and is violent and unpredictable. Mostly she fears ever to love or to need anyone. For the intensity with which her own mother obsessed over Shea's absent father led her to be a terrible mother and finally to commit suicide.<br />Shea and Jacques are forced to deal not only with the tremendous electric sensuality and fear between them but also with others appearing in their lives who may or may not be vampires. And the danger that Jacques-who is now more beast than man-will kill them or Shea is ever present. As Jacques begins to remember his past and to heal both physically and emotionally, his skills are taxed to the limit, as are Shea's.<br />Dark Desire is a wild, scary and immensely sensual ride that grows ever more intense as danger mounts and Shea and Jacques grow to fervently love each other. I didn't mind that the mysterious villain is easy to guess because the action and emotion are so intense that every page is a thoroughly entertaining adventure.	2003-08-24
US	27601358	RIB2PT1JZMX00	0440236029	354906424	Lilies on the Lake	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Pleasant Romantic Adventure	This is a very pleasant romantic adventure--easy to read, full of sexual tension and moving. The hero John Henry and heroine Pip rediscover a deep passion and love for one another through becoming surrogate parents for an unfortunate newborn. This situation becomes increasingly complex, sensual and involving. Pip has a satisfying spiritual enlightenment at the end. Enthusiastically recommended.	2003-08-24
US	27601358	R1S5618ENB4JRX	0515124656	585470605	Lady Moonlight	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Whimsical Air But Poor Characters	The fantasy romance Lady Moonlight is a warm and affectionate look at rural Ireland. It has a whimsical air that is often fun. Unfortunately, it is marred by underdeveloped characters and a predictable and relatively uneventful plot.<br />In 1899 country lass Aisling Ahearn escapes from an unwanted marriage to the hated neighboring O'Haras by accepting a crafty leprechaun's magic. Unfortunately, this traps her and her white mare Luna in the ageless fairy world for 100 years. If Aisling is unable to find her true love by the end of this time, she will be forced into marriage with the odious leprechaun. The problem is, mortals see her as her horse Luna, except during the night of the full moon, when she appears as herself.<br />In 1982 16-year-old Conlan Sloan O'Hara, a computer geek living in America, arrives in County Sligo to visit his cantankerous grandfather. Meeting Aisling by chance, he becomes enraptured, and the two begin developing a relationship. But Sloan doesn't believe in magic and he detests horses, while Aisling doesn't realize that he is in fact descended from the detested O'Haras who [took] all her property and wealth from her. <br />There are some tender moments between the couple, who three years later become lovers, break up then eventually reunite shortly before Aisling will be lost forever. The problem is Aisling is portrayed as simply a feisty but sweet Irish girl who loves horses and believes in magic, while Sloan is simply the kindly but self-doubting ambitious computer geek who refuses to believe in anything outside his idea of science. <br />The characters are barely developed beyond these descriptions, so it was difficult for me to take them seriously as real people and thus to really care about them. The unsurprising plot would not have mattered much to me if the main characters had been richer and thus their interaction more complex and entertaining.<br />I can somewhat recommend this novel as a pleasant enough read for those who love magic and Ireland-its descriptions, for example, are often lovely-but it fails overall to truly satisfy.	2003-08-24
US	27601358	RDVZFIQ9L9K4D	0380814811	830890183	Home for the Holidays	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Sensual and Fascinating	Our hero Vincent and heroine Larissa are very passionate people who find themselves torn between the incredible attraction they feel for each other and the strong reasons why they should rather hate one another. Home For The Holidays is a very sensual and fascinating story of how these well drawn characters learn to look beyond prejudices and into the value of another human being. This is a highly entertaining read which I highly recommend.	2003-08-24
US	27601358	R18J26X29R70EL	0440226309	786066422	McClairen's Isle: The Ravishing One	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Nonstop Fireworks	The Ravishing One is the excellent, fiery conclusion to Connie Brockway's wonderfully dark and complex McClairen's Isle trilogy. <br />Fia Merrick is a fascinating heroine--so stunningly beautiful, precociously worldly yet innocent and deeply damaged by her past. She doesn't realize that Thomas Donne, the man she's secretly loved for half a dozen years, is a McClairen and her family's bitterest enemy. <br />Their romance is a pager turner of nonstop fireworks not to be missed! Fia's journey toward self-discovery and freedom from her evil father's ironclad rule is also a delight. This novel is full of unexpected plot twists and has a stunning surprise ending I never expected. Don't miss this entertaining series that delves deeply into the nature of love, passion and evil!	2003-08-24
US	27601358	R3929ADYS4TT9Y	0451207203	488790082	Duel of Hearts	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Witty and Exuberant	Witty and exuberant Diane Farr again treats the reader to a highly entertaining romp in her novel Duel of Hearts. <br />Delilah Chadwick is incredulous that her adoring widowed father could really be contemplating remarriage without consulting her, but so the letter she receives from him states. She embarks on a mission to save her beloved father from Eugenia Mayhew, a young woman Lilah has never met but who must be \\"a mercenary harridan...taking advantage of Papa's good nature.\\"<br />Lilah is so used to everyone capitulating to her demands that she's failed to notice how headstrong and domineering she actually is. So she's astonished and extremely annoyed by the very forceful man actually opposes her will when, at the local inn, she attempts to wrest from him the carriage he has just rented-the last suitable vehicle in the area to carry her to London where her father is.<br />Adam \\"Drake\\" Harleston, the ninth Earl of Drakesley, is stunned and highly displeased with the forceful harpy who has the nerve to repeatedly demand he give up his rented carriage to her. When he begrudgingly ends up sharing the carriage with Lilah and her companion Miss Pickens, he's even more displeased to discover that she's the daughter of the older gentleman who's no doubt seduced his poor cousin Eugenia into pledging marriage. Drake was raised with Eugenia and always assumed that he would marry her one day. After all, a biddable wife who can offer him a quiet life is just the ticket to enable him to maintain the status quo of his existence. And that's surely what he wants-right?<br />Drake is alarmed to discover the overwhelming physical reaction he has to Lilah, and she is equally embarrassed by the passion she feels whenever she's near him. Although they form an alliance to stop the disastrous marriage of her father and his cousin, they cannot stop arguing over how to do it. And what a wonderful, feisty argument it is. As they wittily oppose one another's wills, they feel extraordinarily alive and begin falling in love while the reader is treated to highly entertaining repartee.<br />But nothing goes as planned, and by the time Drake apparently persuades Eugenia to break her engagement and to marry him instead, emotions are running high all around, and it's no longer clear who is tricking whom. What is clear is that Drake and Lilah must stop fooling themselves or an extraordinary love will be lost forever.<br />Lilah and Drake are lively, well-drawn and thoroughly enjoyable characters who take the reader on a thrilling ride in this witty page turner. The supporting cast is equally endearing and funny. Duel of Hearts is a delightful book that no romance lover should miss.	2003-08-24
US	27601358	R3EJYOOFP5SO8J	0843949945	546367854	Dark Guardian (The Carpathians (Dark) Series, Book 8)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Unique, Sensual, Highly Compelling	Dark Guardian is a great entry in Feehan's unique, sensual and highly compelling Dark series.<br />Jaxon (Jaxx) Montgomery, a tough young police officer, has already endured a life of misery in which she's lost everyone she's ever cared about to her murderous stepfather, Tyler Drake, an ex-Navy Seal who's still at large.<br />Lucian Daratrazanoff has been a powerful guardian of his people, the Carpathians, for thousands of years. He uses his enormous supernatural mental and physical powers to hunt and destroy vampires and to protect the weak. However, his emotions have withered so he lives a bleak, soulless life-until he meets Jaxx.<br />Lucian is convinced that Jaxx is his lifemate. After he saves her from an ambush, her real adventure begins. She discovers a secret, shadow world of unimaginable power and danger as she fights by Lucian's side. In the meantime, she begins to discover the inner secrets of the enigmatic and fascinating Lucian-a male of intense power, confidence and utter devotion to her. Under Jaxx's influence, Lucian is able to recover his emotions-and they are as intense as any romantic hero in all of literature.<br />This is one of the best romances I've ever read. The tender and highly erotic relationship between Lucian and Jaxx is developed in such detail and with such an excitement of discovery that the book is impossible to put down. It is a steamy, wild adventure ride that will utterly entertain any romance reader. Author Christine Feehan is truly a master of exciting erotic prose and deep character emotion. I can hardly wait to read all of her other books!	2003-08-24
US	27601358	R1EY26QIS2V067	0440226279	609969786	McClairen's Isle: The Reckless One	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Dark and Riveting	Raine Merrick is every bit as wild and passionate as his older brother Ash (see The Passionate One)! In The Reckless One Connie Brockway continues the fascinating saga of the Merrick family that has brutally stolen McClairen's Isle from its Scottish owners after their massacre at Culloden in 1746. <br />Ronald Merrick, Lord Carr, was responsible for their deaths, and his estranged son Raine falls in love with Favor, not realizing that she is a McClairen. He then has to keep from her that he is a Merrick. <br />But this is much better than Romeo and Juliet. The plot twists, emotional depths and complex characters keep the reader on the edge of her seat. Raine is particularly fascinating as is his father, one of the cleverest and most entertaining evil characters you're likely to meet. Don't miss this dark but riveting series!	2003-08-24
US	27601358	R3HG9LL5VSYE6W	0380818337	129001494	The Lady Is Tempted (Avon Historical Romance)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Deeply emotional, Joyful and Fast-Paced	Cathy Maxwell, one of my favorite romance writers, has written another winner. I was up half the night, absolutely unable to put down The Lady Is Tempted until I'd finished reading the last word of the last page.<br /> As with all of Maxwell's novels, the story grabs the reader and runs. The pace never slows, and there's not a single sentence that doesn't compel and entice the reader to rush forward.<br /> Maxwell's style is exuberant. All her characters feel so real and alive. Genuine emotion-tender, moving, devastating and never sappy-leaps off every page. Every character is revealed in some way as sympathetic and likeable (as in real life, if we look closely enough). Maxwell has a charming way of seeing the best in even `bad' characters, thus humanizing them.<br /> Maxwell's quest has been to understand and to celebrate the mystery of why people fall in love. She succeeds brilliantly. The widowed Deborah Percival, a woman of amazing strength, meets the devastatingly handsome and wealthy Anthony Aldercy, Earl of Burnell, and her life is immediately turned upside down. Their passionate mutual attraction-beyond anything either ever thought possible-is matched by their surprisingly similar pasts and the deep love and respect for one another than grows from the refreshing honesty, trust and understanding they share. The reader clearly feels their genuine mutual love when they make love.<br /> But this exquisite relationship is threatened by honor, pride and obligations they cannot dismiss. The reader can't guess how they will extricate themselves from these overwhelming difficulties. The surprise ending is satisfying and delightfully humorous yet does not lessen the drama and romantic tension-a feat only a writer with Maxwell's skill and vivacity can pull off. <br /> For a deeply emotional yet joyful and celebratory read, don't miss The Lady Is Tempted.	2003-08-24
US	27601358	R3IC3CUOC7TZQB	0440235510	746311637	Whirlwind Wedding	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Flawed but Entertaining	Whirlwind Wedding is another pleasant and entertaining novel by Jacquie DAlessandro. But, as her second novel, it has flaws in the writing that she fortunately corrects in later works.<br />It is 1816 and Austin Randolph Jamison, Ninth Duke of Bradford, is Englands most eligible bachelor. But romance is the last thing on Austins mindhes being blackmailed by a mysterious person who threatens to reveal Austins now apparently deceased brother William as a traitor to England. Since the year before Austin witnessed William smuggling arms onto a French ship, hes convinced of his brothers guilt and is determined to protect his family from scandal.<br />American Elizabeth Matthews has come to England to live with her Aunt, after failing to share her accurate precognitive visions resulted in the loss of her best friend. She and her Aunt are invited by the Dowager Duchess for a several week visit to Bradford Hall, starting with a fancy ball.<br />When Austin and Elizabeth meet by chance in the garden during the ball, sparks fly between themand so do Elizabeths visions. But when Elizabeth tells Austin she has a vision of William injured but alive, Austin is very suspicious. He doesnt believe in visions. How does Elizabeth know details about his family she couldnt ordinarily know? Could Elizabeth somehow be involved in the blackmail scheme?<br />Despite his suspicions, Austin cannot resist Elizabeths innocence, warmth, unpretentiousness, kindness and generosity. Before he knows whats happened, hes fallen in love with her. When Elizabeths saving Austins life results in their being caught together in a compromising position, Austin is all too happy to marry her. But after marriage, nothing goes as planned.<br />The characters are charming and entertaining, but some of their dialogue is stiffnot anything someone would actually say in spoken language, even with the formalities of historical speech. Also, the big plot twist in the middle of the novel, while not expected, immediately signals the reader what the resolution of that difficulty will be, even though its supposed to be a secret until the end. Despite this problems, Whirlwind Wedding is still a charming and enjoyable read.	2003-08-24
US	27601358	RQH7LEVO2Q2X9	0380761327	303727550	Flowers from the Storm	Books	5	19	21	N	N	Unusual and Highly Rewarding Novel--A Classic!	Laura Kinsale's Flowers from the Storm well deserves its status as a romantic classic. This very unusual and well developed romance between a notorious rake and a young Quaker woman in post-Regency England deeply explores situations and emotions that are rarely present in romance and does so with great feeling and sensitivity.<br /> Christian Langland, Duke of Jervaulx, lives a dissolute life of pleasure. His only constructive pursuit involves his love of mathematics, which he shares with Mr. Timms, a blind older Quaker man who is nearly as great a mathematical genius as Christian is. Together they are collaborating on work to present to the London Analytical Society, of which they are both members. <br />Mr. Timms' daughter, Archimedea, nicknamed Maddy, does not care for the Duke, whom she sees as reckless, extravagant and utterly worldly. However, she is disturbingly impressed by his energetic presence and intensity when she finally meets him, and later when she hears that he is dead, she feels surprisingly affected by the loss.<br />Unbeknowst to her and to many others, Christian is still alive. After inexplicably experiencing a collapse (stroke?) that renders him unable to speak, to write or at first even to think clearly, his family sends him to a country asylum run by Mr. Timms' cousin Edward.<BR> <BR>Having run out of funds, the Timms' go to live at the asylum where Maddy helps care for the residents. Maddy is extremely attached to her father and would rather spend most of her time caring for him, but one day she is astonished to encounter Christian, and surprisingly she is the only one who can calm his frustrated rages. She then experiences a spiritual \\"Opening,\\" a strong deep intuition that God wants her to serve as his nurse. She would rather not spend time with such a worldly man, but she feels she must do her duty.<br />The slowly developing relationship of trust, respect, affection and eventually love between Christian and Maddy is beautiful to experience. Kinsale uses such brilliant detail and lovely writing style to bring her characters to life that they leap off the page as fully developed, breathing human beings. <br />It is fascinating to enter the mind of Quaker Maddy, to really understand and to sympathize with her feelings and beliefs. Her deep struggle between her life values and her growing feelings for Christian generates a deep soul searching and riveting, entertaining plot twists. Until almost the last moment, the reader hangs in suspense, vitally curious as to how Maddy will be able to do justice to her two seemingly irreconcilable worlds. This problem only intensifies when halfway through the book she has to marry Christian to save him from his avaricious relatives who want to declare him incompetent and steal all his property.<br />It is equally fascinating to enter Christian's mind, to see how he grapples with the confusion and heart wrenching frustration of being unable to make sense of language. As his ability to understand and to speak slowly returns, we admire his struggle to take control of his life and his increasing tenderness for his \\"Maddygirl\\". The fierce loyalty, appreciation and overwhelming love he develops for Maddy creates a fervent passion that deeply touches the reader's heart.<br />Flowers from the Storm may seem a bit long at 471 pages, but all the detail and exquisitely rendered scenes (each with its own quiet drama) are necessary to build the overall rich story edifice that is so rewarding to the patient reader. The novel is packed with many scenes that shine like gems. For example, the simple scene early in the book where Christian describes Maddy to her blind father, who has not seen his beloved daughter since she was a child: the reader is nearly in tears from the dramatically charged and beautifully understated handling of this scene.<BR> <BR>Laura Kinsale is a master of historical romantic fiction, and Flowers from the Storm is pleasurably required reading for any lover of romance.	2003-08-24
US	27601358	R3LKUZ6EG3RQOZ	0380808323	888346369	A Scandalous Marriage	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Sexy, Spirited and Passionate	Leah Carrollton and Devon Marshall are perfect for each other--despite the fact that their families have been feuding for generations and Leah is pregnant with someone else's baby. This sexy, spirited and utterly entertaining couple surmounts insurmountable difficulties in a very passionate and smart story that keeps the reader riveted. Cathy Maxwell is a superb writer whose complex and highly sensual characters sizzle on the page. Do not miss this or any of her other books!	2003-08-24
US	27601358	RBJ7UMB0WOPWE	0505523892	406492827	Dark Magic (The Carpathians (Dark) Series, Book 4)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Good But Not As Good As Earlier Books In The Series	Dark Magic is Christine Feehan's fourth novel in the marvelous Dark series, and it is in some ways not up to her previous efforts. <br />Gregori has been a powerful and ageless protector of his people, the Carpathians of Eastern Europe, for a thousand years. He uses his enormous supernatural mental and physical powers to hunt and destroy vampires and to protect the weak. However, his abilities to see colors and to feel emotions have withered. He's trapped in a bleak, solitary existence, for he has not united with his lifemate-the one female who is the other half of his soul, the light to his darkness. His predatory instincts have intensified, and his darkness threatens to overwhelm him so that he is close to turning into a vampire. He must merge with her soon.<br />Even before Savannah Dubrinski's birth, Gregori had chosen her as his lifemate, manipulating her energy to insure she would match his. Now he has waited 18 long years for her to grow up, then another 5 years for her to exercise the freedom she craved as she traveled with her crew as a world-famous magician.<br />But now he can wait no longer. When he finally claims Savannah in San Francisco-amidst protecting her from a series of vampires who wish to claim her for themselves and from humans who want to brutally exterminate all supernatural beings-fireworks ensue. Savannah finally convinces Gregori to go with her to New Orleans, where they find a new set of adventures.<BR> <BR>As usual, this Carpathian couple has enormous barriers to working out their relationship but they share an amazingly sensuous and intense sexual chemistry. The plot also contains significant action as they fight the vampires and eventually become friends with a good human named Gary, protecting him from the bad guys.<br />I'd looked forward to this book from the Dark series above all others because Gregori is the most ancient and powerful of the Carpathians. However-while Feehan's writing is as lushly sensual and action packed forever-I found myself getting surprisingly so bored I could barely finish the book. <br />This is somewhat due to reading too many Dark books in a row, as they have a great sameness in their characters and situations, and perhaps also to my inflated expectations, but I think it also reflected a defect in characterization. Gregori is simply too powerful and too perfect-his sense of guilt is the only Achilles heel that hampers him at all. He needs more dimension to carry him through the book. And Gregori's enormous irrational possessiveness (seemingly even more extreme than that of other Carpathian males) finally wears thin on the reader. <br />The novel becomes too insular between Gregori and Savannah, and they are not quite capable of carrying the number of pages in which they appear alone together. (This could have been remedied if their characters had been developed further over the course of the novel to sustain the reader's interest.) Some new blood is infused into the story with the appearance of Gary; it is refreshing to see them from his point of view. But he is not developed far enough to become fully real and interesting to the reader-he seems more like a device the author created to give the story a much needed shot in the arm.<br />Don't get me wrong; Dark Magic is still a very well-written and fun read. It just seems to lack some of the juice of the earlier novels. Perhaps by this time, Feehan has grown somewhat weary of the world she's created and so doesn't advance it enough beyond the earlier novels to fully hold the reader's interest.	2003-08-24
US	27601358	RK38WPKB3OC2K	0380818329	716131497	The Wedding Wager	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Witty, Fun and Exuberant	Tye and Mary are delightful characters--very likable, feisty and well suited to each other--in this very fun and fast-paced Regency romance. The warmth, wit and lust for life characteristic of all Cathy Maxwell romances is evident here and makes this winning novel a charming read.	2003-08-24
US	27601358	RJAPYTWNRJ7J9	0380797097	780643682	When Dreams Come True	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Exciting, Passionate Tale	Cathy Maxwell is a wonderful writer whose fairytale yet richly developed characters and stories never fail to delight!<BR> <BR>When Dreams Come True is the entertaining story of the ravishing Eden, a woman of great compassion, generosity and integrity who had the misfortune to be raised for a life as a courtesan. A virgin yet thoroughly schooled in the art of lovemaking, she's sold to a foreign sheik for an astronomical sum. Escaping in a dingy during a storm at sea, Eden finds herself washed onto the shores of Cornwall and into the arms of the handsome, gallant and highly principled Pierce Kirrier, Lord Penhollow.<br />Villagers believe she is the answer to their magical incantations for a bride for the Lord. Eden and Pierce's courtship while she recovers at his gorgeous estate is exciting and moving. But with Pierce's mother dead set against her and her enslavers searching for her all over England, Eden must struggle with the warring instincts of her passionate attraction to Pierce and her determination to protect him from her past. <br />This is an exciting tale of passion, loyalty, suspense and friendship. Most of all, it is a lot of fun. You won't want to put this one down, so be sure to start reading when you have a few hours of free time ahead of you.	2003-08-24
US	27601358	R3SGE8HSRBRI5A	0380787164	412899790	You and No Other	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Funny and Delightful	Cathy Maxwell always delivers a fun and delightful read, and You and No Other is no exception. <br />This action packed romantic comedy takes place over 5 days in London, mostly in the homes of the impoverished Lady Caroline Pearson and the rich James Ferrington. Caroline is a quiet but charming widow who yearns for more in life while James is also secretly lonely while he builds a shipping empire.<BR> <BR>When Caroline's dissolute brother-in-law loses her house to James in a game of cards, the demure widow is forced to confront James to get it back. From there, her life is turned upside down, starting with James' need to pretend she is his cousin when unexpected visitors arise. <br />The supporting characters in the story are well drawn and delightful with all their machinations. Caroline and James are strong and likable. This is a great novel to laugh and love with!	2003-08-24
US	27601358	RFPCLX21O3MRX	0553563343	755856344	Breath of Magic	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Exuberant and Magical	Teresa Medeiros' Breath of Magic has the exuberant and magical fairy tale quality that distinguishes all her delightful novels.<br />Arian Whitwood is about to be drowned as a witch in 1689 New England when she's propelled into 1996 New York City with the help of an amulet her mother gave her. Flying on a broomstick, Arian lands nearly in the lap of billionaire tycoon Tristan Lennox, who is sponsoring a contest with a prize of $1 million to whomever can prove magic exists.<br />Tristan is smitten by the petite raven-haired beauty yet suspicious of her origin and motives, especially since a secret from his past has turned him into a recluse with a heart encased in ice. Still, he can't stay away from Arian. He houses her in his penthouse suite as he tries in vain to disprove her extraordinary abilities.<br />Arian loses her heart to her handsome, lonely rescuer, even as she is unsure of his motives.<br />But the past catches up with them both as an evil threat forces them to return to the seventeenth century. Will they and their love survive? And can they stop a powerfully evil time traveler before he steals the magic that would enable him to control the entire world?<br />Breath of Magic features engaging characters, an absorbing plot full of surprises and that playful, upbeat writing style that makes all of Teresa Medeiros' novels a pleasure to read. For an entertaining, moving and very well-written read, I highly recommend this romantic time-travel novel.	2003-08-24
US	27601358	RJ3AOXHLAQCXU	0380797097	780643682	When Dreams Come True	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Exciting, Passionate Tale	Cathy Maxwell is a wonderful writer whose fairytale yet richly developed characters and stories never fail to delight!<BR> <BR>When Dreams Come True is the entertaining story of the ravishing Eden, a woman of great compassion, generosity and integrity who had the misfortune to be raised for a life as a courtesan. A virgin yet thoroughly schooled in the art of lovemaking, she's sold to a foreign sheik for an astronomical sum. Escaping in a dingy during a storm at sea, Eden finds herself washed onto the shores of Cornwall and into the arms of the handsome, gallant and highly principled Pierce Kirrier, Lord Penhollow.<br />Villagers believe she is the answer to their magical incantations for a bride for the Lord. Eden and Pierce's courtship while she recovers at his gorgeous estate is exciting and moving. But with Pierce's mother dead set against her and her enslavers searching for her all over England, Eden must struggle with the warring instincts of her passionate attraction to Pierce and her determination to protect him from her past. <br />This is an exciting tale of passion, loyalty, suspense and friendship. Most of all, it is a lot of fun. You won't want to put this one down, so be sure to start reading when you have a few hours of free time ahead of you.	2003-08-24
US	27601358	R3KZELSABO0C45	0440237130	25356256	Whirlwind Affair	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Utterly Enjoyable	Whirlwind Affair is another charming Jacquie D'Alessandro novel filled with secrets, fun, passion and heartbreak.<br />American Alberta Brown (mentioned as heroine Elizabeth's best friend in Whirlwind Wedding) sails to England to visit her childhood friend Elizabeth, the Duchess of Bradford, and to perform the final deed that will right the wrongs of her thieving and now dead husband.  Having previously given her heart to a charming and handsome man who turned out to be a criminal and philanderer, Allie is determined never again to trust a man and certainly never to marry again.<br />But she doesn't count on meeting the charming and handsome Lord Robert Jamison, Elizabeth's husband's younger brother. Robert collects Allie when her boat docks in London while Elizabeth is about to deliver her second child at Bradford Hall in Kent. It is isn't long before Robert, who has been looking for a bride, realizes that Allie is the woman he's been searching for all his life. Unfortunately Allie, who finally gives into their mutual physical passion, is determined to never again risk her heart.<br />The developing relationship between Robert and Allie is beautiful, fun and heartbreaking. Soon they are both endangered by the man who repeatedly seeks to murder Allie because of the dangerous information she possesses. The plot takes off and-though the mystery is easy to unravel-keeps the reader on the edge of her seat with its fast-paced action.<BR> <BR>The characters are intelligent, warm and delightful-even the secondary characters like the hilarious Baroness Gaddlestone and her rambunctious dog \\"boys\\" Teddy, Eddie and Freddie. Scenes between Allie and Robert sparkle with fun and passion. The happy, closely knit family at Bradford Hall is so feisty and fun that the reader wishes she could be a part of it.<br />This is an utterly enjoyable Regency romance (brimming with the love of life, spouse and children) that should not be missed!	2003-08-24
US	27601358	R3S5H0FIYDYCQT	0373259727	806558912	INTO THE FIRE (HEAT)	Books	2	5	6	N	N	Predictable Characters and Plot	Leslie Kelly hits all the right formulaic plot beats in her novel Into The Fire, but I cared little about the frequent hot sex and was happy to put the book down by the end. Why?<br />I suspect it is the characters. Lacey Clark and Nate Logan, rival columnists at different magazines owned by the same publisher, are at war, arguing in print about sex. Every month he pushes the virtues of mindless passion while she insists on the necessity of true love. They hate each other, though they've never met. So-surprise!-they fall in lust at a party and have wild sex without knowing who each other is. The rest of the novel is about how they deal with the truth of their identities once they discover it.<br />It's a nice premise, but the plot plays out predictably. Kelly could have upped the tension by putting the characters more through the wringer, making us believe for at least a moment that there was some doubt if they'd end up together. <br />Still, plot predictability is not the main problem-it's the lack of fresh characters. Everything Lacey and Nate think, say or do is predictable. Their dialogue is mostly flat and indistinguishable from one another. Their `witticisms' are generic, clearly coming from the writer rather than from the characters' personalities.<br />I do not recommend this book. Even in tightly defined genre fiction, the characters need to be fresh and surprising at times, to come to life with more individuation and complexity than is here. They need to be larger than life in more ways than just their voracious sexual appetites.	2003-08-24
US	27601358	R1J6SVFSM9YQR4	0505523728	21482417	Dark Prince (The Carpathians (Dark) Series, Book 1)	Books	5	0	2	N	N	Fascinating and Highly Sensual Series	Dark Prince is the first in the fascinating and highly sensual Dark series created by the very talented Christine Feehan. It is a world of mystery, danger, intense emotions, extraordinary psychic and physical power. <br />            The Carpathians are a wise and ancient species, appearing just like humans except that they can live for millennia and have amazing psychic and physical powers. Only sunlight and violent wounding can destroy them. They sleep during the day, deep in the healing earth, and are awake at night, thriving in the darkness. They are in perfect harmony with the earth and all its plants and animals. They can shape shift into any animal and even become as fog. They move, travel and heal themselves with phenomenal speed. And they survive on human blood-yet they never kill the donor and gently wipe out his/her memory of their \\"feeding.\\"<br /> The male is a predator, dark and dangerous, and this darkness grows until he finds his life mate-the feminine light that perfectly balances and illuminates his darkness. If he does not find his life mate soon enough, the male gradually loses his emotions and his ability to see in color. He is condemned to a lonely, dark and despairing world devoid of all happiness. When he does find her, he regains his emotions and his world becomes brightly colored, full of joy and hope.<br /> But for many hundreds of years no female Carpathians have been born, and few males have survived infancy. To make matters worse, many males who have not found their life mates have become so filled with dark despair that they have \\"turned,\\" becoming vampires who can then feel exhilaration by murdering humans and Carpathians. Carpathian males have had to focus much of their energy on tracking down and destroying this threat to all life while themselves resisting the overwhelming temptation to turn. Some have tried to take human women as their life mates, but the women have gone violently insane when their bodies were converted to Carpathian and had to be destroyed.<br /> When Dark Prince begins, Mikhail Dubrinsky, the very wealthy and handsome prince of the Carpathians, has decided to walk into the sunlight and thus end his life. He wields enormous power over himself, others and all the elements, but his extreme loneliness and despair at ever finding a life mate have become overwhelming. He can no longer bear to go on, even though he feels a strong duty to lead his people and to wipe out vampires from the earth. He is afraid that he will turn himself if he waits any longer. And then he hears a sweet female voice in his head-one of compassion and comfort.<br /> Raven Whitney has journeyed all the way from America to the remote and beautiful Carpathian mountains for a much-deserved rest. She is a supremely gifted psychic who has assisted the police in tracking down mass murderers-a nauseating task that damages her body and spirit but which she undertakes because of her compassion for the victims. She is all that is light and goodness, and she reaches out to Mikhail when she feels his overwhelming loneliness and despair. She is herself no stranger to loneliness; she must keep as far away from other people as possible to avoid being bombarded by their thoughts and emotions.<br /> Mikhail is astounded by this psychic contact and immensely enjoys the teasing banter Raven mentally projects to cheer him up. He travels to her in the form of a bird and, observing her, realizes that she is his life mate. But how can this be? She is human. And how can he convince a woman who doesn't even know that Carpathians exist that she is his life mate?<br /> Mikhail and Raven embark on an extraordinary relationship-fun, tender and sensual-that keeps the reader riveted. In the meantime, they are faced with danger from a group of fanatical vampire hunters bent on killing anyone who's not human. Mikhail and Raven team up to stop them, but clash over Raven's determination to take an active role that often places her in gravedanger. <br />As a Carpathian, Mikhail is extremely protective and highly possessive of this woman he loves with a passion that goes beyond the most intense human feeling. He is tender, gentle and caring toward Raven while utterly ruthless and violent with his enemies. He will faithfully cherish her forever and will himself die if she does. Once life mates unite, they cannot live without being in frequent contact with each other. But how can he live forever with a human or convert her to Carpathian without destroying her? And how can he protect her from evils she doesn't realize exist?<br /> Dark Prince is a riveting story full of action, surprise, passion and the depths of love. Feehan has created a mesmerizing hero that every romance reader can fall in love with and the wondrous world of Carpathians that is fascinating to explore. I could not put Dark Prince down and am eager to read all the novels in this unusual and compelling series.	2003-08-24
US	27601358	R2D4JEE17NT0N	0505523892	406492827	Dark Magic (The Carpathians (Dark) Series, Book 4)	Books	4	10	13	N	N	Good But Not As Good As Earlier Books In The Series	Dark Magic is Christine Feehan's fourth novel in the marvelous Dark series, and it is in some ways not up to her previous efforts.<br />Gregori has been a powerful and ageless protector of his people, the Carpathians of Eastern Europe, for a thousand years. He uses his enormous supernatural mental and physical powers to hunt and destroy vampires and to protect the weak. However, his abilities to see colors and to feel emotions have withered. He's trapped in a bleak, solitary existence, for he has not united with his lifemate-the one female who is the other half of his soul, the light to his darkness. His predatory instincts have intensified, and his darkness [may] overwhelm him so that he is close to turning into a vampire. He must merge with her soon.<br />Even before Savannah Dubrinski's birth, Gregori had chosen her as his lifemate, manipulating her energy to insure she would match his. Now he has waited 18 long years for her to grow up, then another 5 years for her to exercise the freedom she craved as she traveled with her crew as a world-famous magician.<br />But now he can wait no longer. When he finally claims Savannah in San Francisco-amidst protecting her from a series of vampires who wish to claim her for themselves and from humans who want to brutally exterminate all supernatural beings-fireworks ensue. Savannah finally convinces Gregori to go with her to New Orleans, where they find a new set of adventures.<br /><br />As usual, this Carpathian couple has enormous barriers to working out their relationship but they share an amazingly sensuous and intense [physical]chemistry. The plot also contains significant action as they fight the vampires and eventually become friends with a good human named Gary, protecting him from the bad guys.<br />I'd looked forward to this book from the Dark series above all others because Gregori is the most ancient and powerful of the Carpathians. However-while Feehan's writing is as lushly sensual and action packed forever-I found myself getting surprisingly so bored I could barely finish the book.<br />This is somewhat due to reading too many Dark books in a row, as they have a great sameness in their characters and situations, and perhaps also to my inflated expectations, but I think it also reflected a defect in characterization. Gregori is simply too powerful and too perfect-his sense of guilt is the only Achilles heel that hampers him at all. He needs more dimension to carry him through the book. And Gregori's enormous irrational possessiveness (seemingly even more extreme than that of other Carpathian males) finally wears thin on the reader.<br />The novel becomes too insular between Gregori and Savannah, and they are not quite capable of carrying the number of pages in which they appear alone together. (This could have been remedied if their characters had been developed further over the course of the novel to sustain the reader's interest.) Some new blood is infused into the story with the appearance of Gary; it is refreshing to see them from his point of view. But he is not developed far enough to become fully real and interesting to the reader-he seems more like a device the author created to give the story a much needed shot in the arm.<br />Don't get me wrong; Dark Magic is still a very well-written and fun read. It just seems to lack some of the juice of the earlier novels. Perhaps by this time, Feehan has grown somewhat weary of the world she's created and so doesn't advance it enough beyond the earlier novels to fully hold the reader's interest.ound myself getting surprisingly so bored I could barely finish the book. <br />This is somewhat due to reading too many Dark books in a row, as they have a great sameness in their characters and situations, and perhaps also to my inflated expectations, but I think it also reflected a defect in characterization. Gregori is simply too powerful and too perfect-his sense of guilt is the only Achilles heel that hampers him at all. He needs more dimension to carry him through the book. And Gregori's enormous irrational possessiveness (seemingly even more extreme than that of other Carpathian males) finally wears thin on the reader. <br />The novel becomes too insular between Gregori and Savannah, and they are not quite capable of carrying the number of pages in which they appear alone together. (This could have been remedied if their characters had been developed further over the course of the novel to sustain the reader's interest.) Some new blood is infused into the story with the appearance of Gary; it is refreshing to see them from his point of view. But he is not developed far enough to become fully real and interesting to the reader-he seems more like a device the author created to give the story a much needed shot in the arm.<br />Don't get me wrong; Dark Magic is still a very well-written and fun read. It just seems to lack some of the juice of the earlier novels. Perhaps by this time, Feehan has grown somewhat weary of the world she's created and so doesn't advance it enough beyond the earlier novels to fully hold the reader's interest.	2003-08-24
US	27601358	R2M7MNYDNIYCTH	0440237122	486589927	The Bride Thief	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Endearing and Delightful Romp	The Bride Thief is an endearing and delightful romp that is impossible to put down.<br />Samantha Briggeham is a contented and independent spinster, delighting in the fascinating scientific experiments she and her younger brother Hubert perform-until her parents absolutely insist that she marry a stodgy war hero who bores her (and everyone else) to tears.<br />Fortunately, Samantha manages to use her charming eccentricities to extricate herself from the engagement-only to be kidnapped by the notorious Bride Thief, a powerful and highly honorable masked man who believes he must whisk her away to save her from an unhappy marriage.<br />When he learns his mistake, the Bride Thief returns Samantha to her family-but not before he and Samantha have shared a heart-to-heart conversation that changes them both forever.<br />Ugly duckling Samantha suddenly becomes the toast of the ton for escaping the notorious brigand, even as enraged fathers everywhere organize in an attempt to finally capture and hang the unknown man who has freed dozens of grateful brides-to-be from detestable marriages. Samantha, however, will not speak a word against the hero she admires and wishes to aid.<br />In the meantime, Eric Landsdowne-the handsome, generous and sincere Earl of Wesley-takes an inexplicable interest in Samantha and in Hubert. Little do they realize that he is the Bride Thief. Eric is fascinated by the outspoken, intelligent and guilelessly charming Samantha and fools himself into believing he can be satisfied with only her friendship. But as he is unable to keep away from her-or to keep his hands off of her-he is presented with an acute dilemma. With his life overshadowed by danger and the threat of being hanged, Eric cannot risk marrying anyone or even having a mistress who could be hurt beyond repair if his identity were revealed.. <br />Yet he cannot give up Samantha. As the heat between them intensifies, so does the hunt for the Bride Thief, until it seems that Eric and Samantha may both be destroyed.<br />Jacquie D'Alessandro creates vibrant and fascinating characters in a riveting plot that compels the reader to race toward the conclusion. Eric and Samantha's repartee is highly enjoyable and with the right blend of humor and deep feeling. Supporting characters also shine in Jacquie's lively and masterful writing style.<br />The Bride Thief is everything a reader searches for in romance-fascinating and endearing main characters, a highly engaging plot, a warm writing style as well as genuine and deeply felt emotion. Don't miss this one!	2003-08-24
US	27601358	R3MBLX1P7R55SL	0505523728	21482417	Dark Prince (The Carpathians (Dark) Series, Book 1)	Books	5	278	296	N	N	Fascinating and Highly Sensual Series	Dark Prince is the first in the fascinating and highly sensual Dark series created by the very talented Christine Feehan. It is a world of mystery, danger, intense emotions, extraordinary psychic and physical power. <br />            The Carpathians are a wise and ancient species, appearing just like humans except that they can live for millennia and have amazing psychic and physical powers. Only sunlight and violent wounding can destroy them. They sleep during the day, deep in the healing earth, and are awake at night, thriving in the darkness. They are in perfect harmony with the earth and all its plants and animals. They can shape shift into any animal and even become as fog. They move, travel and heal themselves with phenomenal speed. And they survive on human blood-yet they never kill the donor and gently wipe out his/her memory of their \\"feeding.\\"<br /> The male is a predator, dark and dangerous, and this darkness grows until he finds his life mate-the feminine light that perfectly balances and illuminates his darkness. If he does not find his life mate soon enough, the male gradually loses his emotions and his ability to see in color. He is condemned to a lonely, dark and despairing world devoid of all happiness. When he does find her, he regains his emotions and his world becomes brightly colored, full of joy and hope.<br /> But for many hundreds of years no female Carpathians have been born, and few males have survived infancy. To make matters worse, many males who have not found their life mates have become so filled with dark despair that they have \\"turned,\\" becoming vampires who can then feel exhilaration by murdering humans and Carpathians. Carpathian males have had to focus much of their energy on tracking down and destroying this threat to all life while themselves resisting the overwhelming temptation to turn. Some have tried to take human women as their life mates, but the women have gone violently insane when their bodies were converted to Carpathian and had to be destroyed.<br /> When Dark Prince begins, Mikhail Dubrinsky, the very wealthy and handsome prince of the Carpathians, has decided to walk into the sunlight and thus end his life. He wields enormous power over himself, others and all the elements, but his extreme loneliness and despair at ever finding a life mate have become overwhelming. He can no longer bear to go on, even though he feels a strong duty to lead his people and to wipe out vampires from the earth. He is afraid that he will turn himself if he waits any longer. And then he hears a sweet female voice in his head-one of compassion and comfort.<br /> Raven Whitney has journeyed all the way from America to the remote and beautiful Carpathian mountains for a much-deserved rest. She is a supremely gifted psychic who has assisted the police in tracking down mass murderers-a nauseating task that damages her body and spirit but which she undertakes because of her compassion for the victims. She is all that is light and goodness, and she reaches out to Mikhail when she feels his overwhelming loneliness and despair. She is herself no stranger to loneliness; she must keep as far away from other people as possible to avoid being bombarded by their thoughts and emotions.<br /> Mikhail is astounded by this psychic contact and immensely enjoys the teasing banter Raven mentally projects to cheer him up. He travels to her in the form of a bird and, observing her, realizes that she is his life mate. But how can this be? She is human. And how can he convince a woman who doesn't even know that Carpathians exist that she is his life mate?<br /> Mikhail and Raven embark on an extraordinary relationship-fun, tender and sensual-that keeps the reader riveted. In the meantime, they are faced with danger from a group of fanatical vampire hunters bent on killing anyone who's not human. Mikhail and Raven team up to stop them, but clash over Raven's determination to take an active role that often places her in gravedanger. <br />As a Carpathian, Mikhail is extremely protective and highly possessive of this woman he loves with a passion that goes beyond the most intense human feeling. He is tender, gentle and caring toward Raven while utterly ruthless and violent with his enemies. He will faithfully cherish her forever and will himself die if she does. Once life mates unite, they cannot live without being in frequent contact with each other. But how can he live forever with a human or convert her to Carpathian without destroying her? And how can he protect her from evils she doesn't realize exist?<br /> Dark Prince is a riveting story full of action, surprise, passion and the depths of love. Feehan has created a mesmerizing hero that every romance reader can fall in love with and the wondrous world of Carpathians that is fascinating to explore. I could not put Dark Prince down and am eager to read all the novels in this unusual and compelling series.	2003-08-24
US	27601358	R1INMR7QUM95KV	0380808315	284468415	Married in Haste (Marriage)	Books	5	2	5	N	N	Delightful Story and Highly Sensual Characters	Delightful story of two people forced into marriage for economic reasons, only to find out that they are perfect for each other. Brenn Owen, Earl of Merton, and Tess Hamlin sizzle together and when hidden truths emerge that threaten their love, it brings out the great strength and character in each of them. Cathy Maxwell is a superb writer whose complex and highly sensual characters sizzle on the page. Do not miss this or any of her other books!	2003-08-24
US	27601358	R3S1GFUZZ420AC	0451207203	488790082	Duel of Hearts	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Witty and Exuberant	Witty and exuberant Diane Farr again treats the reader to a highly entertaining romp in her novel Duel of Hearts. <br />Delilah Chadwick is incredulous that her adoring widowed father could really be contemplating remarriage without consulting her, but so the letter she receives from him states. She embarks on a mission to save her beloved father from Eugenia Mayhew, a young woman Lilah has never met but who must be \\"a mercenary harridan...taking advantage of Papa's good nature.\\"<br />Lilah is so used to everyone capitulating to her demands that she's failed to notice how headstrong and domineering she actually is. So she's astonished and extremely annoyed by the very forceful man actually opposes her will when, at the local inn, she attempts to wrest from him the carriage he has just rented-the last suitable vehicle in the area to carry her to London where her father is.<br />Adam \\"Drake\\" Harleston, the ninth Earl of Drakesley, is stunned and highly displeased with the forceful harpy who has the nerve to repeatedly demand he give up his rented carriage to her. When he begrudgingly ends up sharing the carriage with Lilah and her companion Miss Pickens, he's even more displeased to discover that she's the daughter of the older gentleman who's no doubt seduced his poor cousin Eugenia into pledging marriage. Drake was raised with Eugenia and always assumed that he would marry her one day. After all, a biddable wife who can offer him a quiet life is just the ticket to enable him to maintain the status quo of his existence. And that's surely what he wants-right?<br />Drake is alarmed to discover the overwhelming physical reaction he has to Lilah, and she is equally embarrassed by the passion she feels whenever she's near him. Although they form an alliance to stop the disastrous marriage of her father and his cousin, they cannot stop arguing over how to do it. And what a wonderful, feisty argument it is. As they wittily oppose one another's wills, they feel extraordinarily alive and begin falling in love while the reader is treated to highly entertaining repartee.<br />But nothing goes as planned, and by the time Drake apparently persuades Eugenia to break her engagement and to marry him instead, emotions are running high all around, and it's no longer clear who is tricking whom. What is clear is that Drake and Lilah must stop fooling themselves or an extraordinary love will be lost forever.<br />Lilah and Drake are lively, well-drawn and thoroughly enjoyable characters who take the reader on a thrilling ride in this witty page turner. The supporting cast is equally endearing and funny. Duel of Hearts is a delightful book that no romance lover should miss.	2003-08-24
US	27601358	R3BZQE6NGBR872	0380808331	234211928	The Marriage Contract	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Pleasant Romantic Adventure	Even the worst Cathy Maxwell book is worth reading, so when I say that The Marriage Contract is not as good as the previous two books in this trilogy, Married in Haste and A Scandalous Marriage, I do not mean it should be avoided. <br />Just know that it is not as witty, entertaining and passionate as Cathy Maxwell's other books. Still, she creates fully rounded characters in the persons of Anne Burnett, a failed debutante, and Aidan Black, a strong independent man who is laird of a beautiful castle in the Scottish Highlands. <br />Anne is sent to Aidan as his bride by proxy, yet the last thing he wants is to marry. The novel is the story of how they come to love each other and to fight together against the unjust English land clearances. It is a pleasant and interesting adventure.	2003-08-24
US	27601358	R207IF2JTHBVYP	0061081531	474306596	The Greatest Lover in All England (Harper Monogram)	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Delightful Characters and Fascinating Plot	Christina Dodd has a talent for creating delightful characters and fascinating plots. And she perfectly captures the merriness and the danger of colorful life in late Elizabethan England in her excellent novel, The Greatest Lover In All England. <br />Since her narrow escape from danger as a small child, orphaned Rosie has been raised by her beloved father figure, the notorious actor Daniel Plympton. Danny, Rosie and their jolly acting troupe flee London when Danny's life is endangered by his discovering a powerful plot against Queen Elizabeth.<BR> <BR>They arrive at Odyssey Manor, the estate of the dashing Sir Anthony Rycliffe, the master of the Queen's Guard. Rosie, now twenty-one, has always acted with the troupe, disguised as a boy who plays women's roles. As sparks fly between Rosie and Tony and they narrowly escape an assassin, Tony discovers that their love is [endangered] by puzzling memories from Rosie's past and that seemingly everyone has a motive to [deatroy] at least one of them. Revelations from Rosie's past pit her against Tony, and their witty sparring and romantic tension is one of the pleasures of the book.<br />This fast-paced romantic suspense novel keeps us constantly entertained and guessing as we root for the sympathetic and charming Rosie and Tony. Supporting characters such as Danny, Lady Honora and Uncle Will (William Shakespeare) are well developed and equally delightful. Dodd has created an especially lively portrait of Queen Elizabeth. Humor and pathos pull us through a wide range of emotions as we race through the novel's many surprises. This thoroughly engaging story pleasantly transports us to a wild and creative moment in history, which we experience through fun and likable characters.	2003-08-24
US	27601358	R9RLN5SY5XHXQ	0380790912	627948354	That Scandalous Evening: The Governess Brides (Governess Brides Series)	Books	3	8	11	N	N	Unlikeable Characters	That Scandalous Evening is one of Christina Dodds lesser entertaining novels. The plot and characters are coherent, but the unlikability of the main characters mars reader enjoyment.<br /> Miss Jane Higgenbothems obsessive devotion to the handsome and arrogant Ransom Quincy, Marquess of Blackburn, led her eleven years before to sculpt a secret, full-sized naked model of him in clay. Unfortunately, someone stole the sculpture and unveiled it at a huge party where she, Blackburn and the rest of the ton beheld the exquisite but scandalous art object in horror. Jane was so socially ruined that she had to leave London. Lord Blackburn, an arbiter of society, was laughed at but not ruined. In revenge and passion he nearly deflowered Jane before her departure.<br /> Now Jane is back with her gorgeous, charming and insightful niece Adorna, who is making her societal debut. For his own secret and unromantic reasons, Lord Blackburn decides to pursue Jane, only to find himself falling in love with her even while he suspects she may be a spy for the French. For her own part, spinster Jane is no longer the love struck, naïve girl who worshipped Blackburns perfect body and grace so many years before. She does not trust his advances yet is unable to completely rebuff them.<br /> This novel is marred by a hero and heroine who are both too stuffy and proper. In addition, Blackburn has an insufferable superiority complex and cruel indifference to others that makes him very unattractive, despite any good looks and superficial charm he may possess. He eventually (very late in the book) grows beyond these, but without the earlier glimmers of goodness, its too late. I disliked him most of the book. <br />Jane is a talented but self-repressed artist who is afraid of offending others by practicing her art. I did feel sympathy, but her utter propriety at all times was boring. Toward the end she became annoying when she refused to even consider that Blackburn might really love herwhen he, his best friend and others repeatedly stressed his love for her. Also, she refuses for too long to forgive Blackburn his former suspicion that she could be a spy. She wont allow herself to show him any affection and is harsh and bitchy with him at every opportunity. While it would be horrible to find out that ones husband had suspected one of being a spy, she carries it too far and comes off as mean-spirited.<br />I have enjoyed other Christina Dodd novels and hope that future ones I read will not be spoiled by such unlikable characters.	2003-08-24
US	27601358	R1GMWSSYQGE1WL	0373259824	870689687	Two to Tangle	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Funny, Wild Ride	Though my first love is historical romance, I happily enjoyed the smart, funny contemporary romance Two To Tangle, by Leslie Kelly.<br /> Full-time college student and part-time department store window dresser Chloe Weston has never been interested in her handsome but thoroughly business-like boss Troy Langtree until late one night she spies on him in front of Langtree's department store. Troy reveals his wild and passionate side in the way he responds to the rain while he's changing a flat tire. When Chloe finally sees him again outside the store-at a merchandising conference they're attending at a swanky hotel in southern Florida-the attraction is overwhelming, and they spend a wild night in bed.<br /> Only Chloe doesn't realize that the man she's having passionate sex and falling in love with is actually Troy's reckless twin brother Trent. Believing Trent to be simply the name Troy uses for his alter ego, Chloe breathlessly plunges into the affair with `Troy', the kind of man she's always wanted-a secure, stable, nine-to-five type who won't endanger her financial security the way her reckless mother (whom she still supports) always has.<br /> We the readers are wracked with suspense-how will Chloe react when she discovers the truth of who her lover is? Kelly does not disappoint. The novel takes us on a wild, tense, tender and romantic ride all the way.<br /> Though I had a lot of fun reading Two To Tangle, I would have enjoyed it even more had Kelly shown more than immense physical attraction, witty repartee and some tender behavior as the basis of Chloe and Trent falling in love. I believed the lust between them but not fully the love, given their sharply divergent interests, values and lifestyles. While they become a bit more alike as Trent stretches Chloe's horizons, I would be more certain of their permanently overcoming the obstacles to their long-term happiness if they'd shared at least a few strong interests and if the respect and trust between them had been built with more detail.<br /> Still, this is an engaging, pleasurable novel which contemporary romance readers should not miss.	2003-08-24
US	27601358	R3MMK1Z1RX22R6	0451205650	862200937	The Fortune Hunter	Books	5	21	21	N	N	The Perfect Romance Novel	I am delighted and amazed when I encounter a perfect novel. Diane Farr's The Fortune Hunter is happily such a novel.<br />The set-up is familiar: George Carstairs, Baron Rival, has managed to eek out an existence in London as a successful card shark. But he has struggled for years in vain to raise the capital to restore his beloved boyhood home, Rye Vale, which was impoverished by his deceased father's still outstanding gambling debts. Though George is infamous from his façade as a gambler and womanizer of the worst kind, he is actually a deeply honorable person and agonizes as desperate circumstances force him into his only remaining option: he must marry an heiress to save his estate.<br />At the top of his list is the elusive and mysterious spinster, Lady Olivia Fairfax, whose secret past has made the truth of one fact absolutely certain to her: she will never give up her hard won control over her own life and over her own fabulous wealth by marrying anyone, especially a fortune hunter like the one who broke her heart when she was a girl.<br />Yet George is not just anyone. When they meet, Olivia sees him immediately as the embodiment of her every fantasy. For his part, George is smitten by the saucy woman he takes to be a maid in his deceased friend's home. He helps her sort through the items left there to benefit the charity (school for poor but promising women) that Olivia founded. He ends up confessing to this alluring maid his plan to woo and marry Olivia for her money.<br />His surprise and mortification are complete when at the reading of his friend's will he again encounters this unforgettable maid who has haunted his dreams-and she turns out to be Olivia! To make matters worse, George receives an inheritance-a modest quarterly income-that the friend stipulates Olivia is to disburse based on whether George is making a useful contribution to Olivia's school.<br />Hence, seemingly against their wills, Olivia and George are thrown together in her school, and the fun begins: irresistible force (George) meets immovable object (Olivia) as George seeks to woo Olivia even as he is completely honest with her about being a fortune hunter. The development of their relationship is among the most clever and entertaining I've ever encountered.<br />Farr has a gift for snappy banter that is never gratuitous but grows believably from the characters of these two complex and lovable persons she so vividly brings to life. There is so much cleverness, humor, deep emotion and verisimilitude in The Fortune Hunter that every page is a fabulously entertaining and pleasurable emotional experience. Farr's great writing skill also produces a very fun plot and lively supporting characters.<br />Do not miss this wonderfully irreverent, wise and deeply emotional novel!	2003-08-24
US	27601358	R2MK3FTV7FXW0	0380797097	780643682	When Dreams Come True	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Exciting, Passionate Tale	Cathy Maxwell is a wonderful writer whose fairytale yet richly developed characters and stories never fail to delight!<BR> <BR>When Dreams Come True is the entertaining story of the ravishing Eden, a woman of great compassion, generosity and integrity who had the misfortune to be raised for a life as a courtesan. A virgin yet thoroughly schooled in the art of lovemaking, she's sold to a foreign sheik for an astronomical sum. Escaping in a dingy during a storm at sea, Eden finds herself washed onto the shores of Cornwall and into the arms of the handsome, gallant and highly principled Pierce Kirrier, Lord Penhollow.<br />Villagers believe she is the answer to their magical incantations for a bride for the Lord. Eden and Pierce's courtship while she recovers at his gorgeous estate is exciting and moving. But with Pierce's mother dead set against her and her enslavers searching for her all over England, Eden must struggle with the warring instincts of her passionate attraction to Pierce and her determination to protect him from her past. <br />This is an exciting tale of passion, loyalty, suspense and friendship. Most of all, it is a lot of fun. You won't want to put this one down, so be sure to start reading when you have a few hours of free time ahead of you.	2003-08-24
US	27601358	R2CSQJ2AVDT783	050552354X	489560477	Dark Desire (The Carpathians (Dark) Series, Book 2)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Wild, Scary and Immensely Sensual Ride	Dark Desire is Christine Feehans second novel in the marvelous Dark series, and it is even more intense than the first.<br />Jacques has been a powerful protector of his people, the Carpathians of Eastern Europe, for hundreds of years. He uses his enormous supernatural mental and physical powers to hunt and destroy vampires and to protect the weak. However, his abilities to see colors and to feel emotions have withered. Hes trapped in a bleak, solitary existence, for he has not found his lifematethe one female who is the other half of his soul, the light to his darkness. His predatory instincts have intensified, and his darkness threatens to overwhelm him so that he is close to turning into a vampire. He must find his mate soon.<br />To make matters worse, evil human vampire hunters are convinced he is a vampire. With the help of a mysterious vampire who hates Jacques, the humans catch and torture Jacques mercilessly, driving a stake near his heart and burying him alive. Jacques manages to live on for seven years, attracting small animals into his coffin and drinking their blood for sustenance. His hatred of his torturers and his need for revenge are a growing cancer in his soul that keeps him alive.<br />During this time Jacques is mentally aware of a human woman, a doctor whom he thinks is linked to the group that tortured him. In his extreme state of weakness, she is the only person left that he can contact through his mind. He often inflicts his pain on her, enraged that she refuses to come free himseeing this as evidence of her guilt.<br />Shea OHalloran is a gifted American surgeon, full of goodness and compassion for her patients. She is puzzled as to why she is sometimes seized with pain and often has dreams in which she sees a mans tortured face. She has always been a loner, afraid of contact with others because of the bizarre blood disorder she has been unable to identify or cure. She often requires transfusions to stay alive. She decidesto go the Carpathian mountains, the birthplace of the father she never knew, in order to further her research in the hope of finding a cure for her condition.<br />Instead, she is drawn to a hidden cellar where she finds Jacques buried! Although he attacks her, she rescues him and nurses him back to health. Jacques comes to realize that she is not one of his tormentors but the lifemate hed been searching for over centuries. He possessively burns for her and can barely prevent himself from claiming her, body and soul, against her will.<br />Shea is horrified to feel such a strong pull to Jacques. And not only because hes lost all memory of his life prior to his burial and is violent and unpredictable. Mostly she fears ever to love or to need anyone. For the intensity with which her own mother obsessed over Sheas absent father led her to be a terrible mother and finally to commit suicide.<br />Shea and Jacques are forced to deal not only with the tremendous electric sensuality and fear between them but also with others appearing in their lives who may or may not be vampires. And the danger that Jacqueswho is now more beast than manwill kill them or Shea is ever present. As Jacques begins to remember his past and to heal both physically and emotionally, his skills are taxed to the limit, as are Sheas.<br />Dark Desire is a wild, scary and immensely sensual ride that grows ever more intense as danger mounts and Shea and Jacques grow to fervently love each other. I didnt mind that the mysterious villain is easy to guess because the action and emotion are so intense that every page is a thoroughly entertaining adventure.	2003-08-24
US	27601358	RWR9W6OF0WMVL	0440235537	503029624	Red Roses Mean Love	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Fun and Endearing First Novel	Red Roses Mean Love is a fun and endearing first novel from promising author Jacquie DAlessandro.<br /> After being jilted by her fiancé, orphan Hayley Albright has given up any dreams of romance to care for her younger siblings. When she rescues Lord Stephen Barrett from a failed assassination attempt, she hardly expects to fall for the handsome man who claims to be penniless tutor Stephen Barrettson. But as he convalesces in the warm family environment Hayley has created, he soon seems like an indispensable family member.<br /> Wealthy and powerful Lord Barrett thinks it a fine idea to convalesce undercover at Hayleys modest but charming country home while he investigates who could be trying to kill him. A jaded rake who doesnt trust any woman, Stephen believes himself immune to Hayleys innocent charm and especially to her loopy familys unconventional way of doing things. Convincing himself that he feels nothing, he nevertheless falls under the spell of the delightful Albright family while discovering feelings he never knew he had.<br /> Hayley is in love with Stephen but her own secret makes her hold back at first. Then the revelation of Stephens true identity and his deceit is devastating. Stephen storms back to London. How will they be reunited? DAlessandro treats us to several inventive plot twists that surprise and entertain.<br /> It is lovely to watch Stephen transform from a cynical nobleman to a down to earth person finally able to trust in another persons goodness. Hayley, however, is too angelic. She needs a flaw, however minor, to humanize her.<br /> Supporting characters are funny and charming, like Hayleys outspoken little sister Callie and the familys hilarious motley servants Grimsley and Winston. Former sailor Winston always has a funny phrase to express his surprise, such as Drop me from the crows nest and feed me to the fishes! Other comic elements include Stephens inability to ever get his romantic rival Jeremy Popplemores name right. Popplemore becomes Poppledard, Popplepuss, Popplecart, etc., depending on how annoyed with him Stephen is at the moment.<br /> This is a funny, very entertaining first novel with colorful characters, heartfelt love and a nice plot that holds the readers interest.	2003-08-24
US	27601358	R1TNRDM8K3V914	044022375X	861496437	My Dearest Enemy	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Battle of Wit and Wills	My Dearest Enemy is a delightful, highly intelligent battle of wit and wills between Lillian and Avery, two charming misfits each determined to take possession of Mill House estate. Their letters to each other are witty and finally moving while their in person battle sparkles with electrifying attraction and deep emotion. Their eventual union is as satisfying as any I've ever read. These are wonderful characters we root for all the way!	2003-08-22
US	27601358	R16GV2ZTEMRLHO	0380775506	845385093	Promise Me Heaven	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Sensuality, Intelligence and Wit	Connie Brockway's first novel, Promise Me Heaven, sizzles with sensuality and is drenched with intelligence, wit and wonderful characters. <br />Sassy and sensitive Catherine &quot;Cat&quot; Sinclair must marry a wealthy man to save her impoverished family, so she seeks out Thomas Montrose, a notorious rake, to instruct her in the art of seduction. <br />Once the toast of London, Thomas is now retired to a country estate, and Cat's arrogant assumption that he's over the hill angers him enough to take up the challenge. But as he teaches her everything he knows about the art of seduction, he becomes seduced by her dazzling wit, genuineness and warm heart--not to mention her breathtaking beauty.<BR> <BR>Yet his secret past forces him to resist her even as she falls ever deeper in love with him. Through a myriad of plot turns that take the couple from Devon to London to Paris, and pit them against a dazzling array of lively secondary characters, Cat and Thomas develop a deep, complex and passionate relationship, full of witty repartee.	2003-08-22
US	27601358	R62ZBLG10KI02	0553213105	503057596	Pride and Prejudice (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The First and Best	Pride and Prejudice is one of the first Regency romances ever written and still perhaps the best. This witty and complex novel features delightful characters, nonstop comic observations, clever dialogue and fast paced development of an excellent plot. Besides being a thoroughly entertaining read, Pride and Prejudice raises questions about appearance versus reality, society versus the individual and the nature of true love that still resonate deeply with us today. Elizabeth Bennet is one of the most complex, lively and fascinating heroines ever created, and her growing romance with the highly intelligent, proud and magnetic Fitzwilliam Darcy is one of the most compelling ever written. This is a seminal novel that no lover of romance-or student of human nature-should ever miss.	2003-08-22
US	27601358	R1JBHOP8F8YF3V	0440221986	78629434	A Dangerous Man	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Intensely Passionate	As usual, Connie Brockway has written a fascinating, heartbreaking, beautiful and triumphant love story in her intensely passionate novel, A Dangerous Man.<BR> <BR>Wealthy and dazzling Mercy Coltrane has gone to England all the way from Texas to find her beloved brother, who has lost himself in London's Victorian underworld. Though she has been introduced into society with the ostensible purpose of finding a husband, she has the means to make only one man help her with her real objective: to find her brother so she can reconcile him with their father.<BR> <BR>Hart Moreland, the Earl of Perth, had thought that his gun slinging days in Texas would remain secret, especially on the eve of assuring his last unmarried sister's engagement to Lord Acton-a marriage into the ton made possible with the funds he'd secretly amassed as a hired gun.<BR> <BR>Mercy's arrival at the Duke of Acton's house party threatens all his plans and plays havoc with his senses. Not just because Mercy still bears the scar where he shot her six years before. And not only because she'll do anything to find her brother, including blackmail. Not even because she's the most beautiful, enchanting, smart and capable woman he's ever met. But because she's able to sense and to touch places inside him no one has ever seen before-places he himself cannot bear to face.<BR> <BR>Connie Brockway masterfully develops the entertaining, deep and emotionally powerful relationship between Mercy and Hart with her characteristic finesse that brings them alive as people and makes the reader care deeply. Their witty and unwilling courtship develops into such a genuine yet heartbreakingly impossible love that the reader cannot put the book down for a second until their triumph is assured.<BR> <BR>A Dangerous Man pleasurably explores the gamut of intense emotions and crackles with irresistible sensuality. It is a must for any romance reader.	2003-08-22
US	27601358	R11G6SPW37ZLOU	0440236746	76364752	Bridal Favors	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Delightful Read	Connie Brockway's talent for weaving a great story is again evident in Bridal Favors, the second in a thoroughly enjoyable Victorian romance series.<BR> <BR>Evelyn Whyte-a confirmed young spinster with dazzling wit, intelligence and determination-persuades Justin Powell, an apparent dilettante, to allow her to put on the wedding of the season at his old family manor, North Cross Abbey. But Justin is much more dangerous than he appears to be, and suddenly Evie's life-and her heart-are in peril.<BR> <br />Bridal Favors is a delightful read-Brockway's characters are multidimensional and fascinatingly real while her plots are fast-paced and exciting. The witty, playful and clever banter-especially between Justin and Evie-is a lot of fun to witness. Brockway's wide-ranging and precise descriptive language is a pleasure to experience. Having read every one of her novels with relish, I can confirm that her master storytelling skills never fail to amuse, delight and move the reader. Don't miss Bridal Favors or any of her previous books.	2003-08-22
US	27601358	RBUGTVS58TI80	0440223725	792718288	All Through the Night	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Smouldering Sensuality	Connie Brockway's rich and evocative vocabulary, together with her equally rich and complex characters, is again evident here. Like all her novels, All Through the Night is a joy to read, all the more so because of the amazing smoldering sensuality between main characters Anne and Jack. My only complaint is that some of Anne's actions don't ring true, leading to some plot contrivances. However, I still highly recommend the thrilling rollercoaster ride the book sweeps the reader into.	2003-08-22
US	27601358	R2VENOHA5K9IWU	0449002845	781654482	Highland Bride	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Diverting Medieval Tale	Highland Bride is a diverting medieval tale about a spirited Scottish lass who captures a high member of a rival clan and forces him to marry her in order to forge an alliance which she hopes will bring peace.<br />Madlin MacKendrick becomes laird of the MacKendricks when her father and brothers are brutally murdered, apparently by the Fraser clan. As Sir Ewan Fraser is returning to Scotland as a brave and brilliant warrior who led his country's fight against their enemies, Madlin captures him and forces him to wed her. So begins a battle of wills that turns into a deep and abiding respect and love.<br />The development of the romance is sensual and satisfying, though Madlin sometimes seems a little over the top in her need to always dominate Ewan. Characters are in general well-developed and mostly sympathetic. The plot unfolds with mystery, intrigue and the threat of violence and is entertaining even though it was clear to me from early on who the mysterious bad guys were. Bieber knows how to play the drama in a scene and to write dialogue that holds the reader's interest. I can recommend the novel as a pleasant diversion.	2003-08-22
US	27601358	R3EKCC0YICGNH8	0060001453	686738756	Love With the Proper Husband	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Warm, witty and delightful	Love With the Proper Husband is warm, witty and delightful. It is fast-paced, unfailingly entertaining and full of thoroughly lovable characters.<br />Penniless Miss Gwendolyn Townsend is called back to England from the post she loathes as a governess in America. She is thrilled to find out that she has a small legacy and that she will have a fortune if she does just one thing. Unfortunately, the one thing turns out to be to marry Marcus Holcroft, Earl of Pennington, a man she considers insufferably arrogant. Besides, she has no desire to marry anyone now that she finally has the means to be independent.<BR> <BR>Marcus is incredulous to find out soon before he turns thirty that his deceased father left a will saying that, failing to find a different bride earlier, Marcus must marry Gwen before he is thirty or lose his whole fortune. (Something else is afoot, of course, in this situation that the reader knows but the characters don't.) After repeatedly refusing Marcus, Gwen abruptly agrees to marry him-but only because she develops a secret life for which she must have money.<BR> <BR>It is hilarious, romantic and just plain fun watching Marcus and Gwen's growing relationship. And it is beautiful how warm and caring their relationship eventually becomes. Marcus' knack for lightening any situation and his easy forgiveness of Gwen's faults is endearing. Their wedding night is a hoot-funny, unexpected yet utterly passionate and romantic.<BR> <BR>The other characters are equally lovable and endearing-especially the three nieces and the two Madames are wonderful, as is Marcus' mother. She puts on quite a show for Marcus early in the novel-I wish we could have seen even more of her.<BR> <BR>The only weakness I noticed was that the last plot twist concerning the nieces is not really believable. Despite this, Love With the Proper Husband is a genuinely fun and absorbing novel that should not be missed!	2003-08-22
US	27601358	R26I0FCXPOPO9D	0440226295	69460434	McClairen's Isle: The Passionate One	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Riveting and Rewarding	What an intriguing, passionate and utterly winning book! As usual, Connie Brockway is in top form in this smoldering romance between tormented rogue Ash and stunning Rhiannon. It is highly satisfying witnessing demure, obedient Rhiannon come into her own as a strong, independent and fiery presence as she reclaims her Scottish heritage. It is sweet torment watching Ash long for her with infinite ardor as her influence brings out the best in him. The story is riveting and very rewarding. <br />For fascinating, complex and highly passionate characters, Connie Brockway can't be beat. Every one of her novels, beginning with her dazzling debut (Promise Me Heaven), is intelligent, sizzling and impossible to put down. Don't miss the ultimate romantic ride!	2003-08-22
US	27601358	R3PFUCMJRIKB0X	0380775506	845385093	Promise Me Heaven	Books	5	23	24	N	N	Sensuality, Intelligence and Wit	Connie Brockway's first novel, Promise Me Heaven, sizzles with sensuality and is drenched with intelligence, wit and wonderful characters. <br />Sassy and sensitive Catherine &quot;Cat&quot; Sinclair must marry a wealthy man to save her impoverished family, so she seeks out Thomas Montrose, a notorious rake, to instruct her in the art of seduction. <br />Once the toast of London, Thomas is now retired to a country estate, and Cat's arrogant assumption that he's over the hill angers him enough to take up the challenge. But as he teaches her everything he knows about the art of seduction, he becomes seduced by her dazzling wit, genuineness and warm heart--not to mention her breathtaking beauty.<BR> <BR>Yet his secret past forces him to resist her even as she falls ever deeper in love with him. Through a myriad of plot turns that take the couple from Devon to London to Paris, and pit them against a dazzling array of lively secondary characters, Cat and Thomas develop a deep, complex and passionate relationship, full of witty repartee.	2003-08-22
US	27601358	R11BBFZGO86TZD	0440221994	50078731	As You Desire	Books	3	6	9	N	N	Not Brockway's Best	As You Desire is my least favorite among talented Connie Brockway's novels, which is to say that it is still quite good in terms of setting, dialogue, character development and character repartee. Nevertheless, I found myself bored because I disliked the hero as well as the absence of much action.<BR> <BR>Desdemona Carlisle has been raised in Victorian Egypt by her grandfather since the death of her parents many years ago in England. She flourishes in this sensuous landscape full of mystery, antiquity and the heady freedom she does not realize she could never possess back in restrictive England. She'd love to bask in Egypt's warmth and culture forever but is trying to convince herself she wants to go back to England because she mistakenly believes her grandfather wishes to return to gain the recognition he deserves as an accomplished Egyptologist. In the meantime, Desdemona indulges her love of Egyptian antiquities and her multilingual talents collecting and translating ancient papyri, etc. <BR> <BR>Harry Braxton has been \\"Dizzy's\\" best friend for many years, though it still stings her that Harry refused to make love to her five years before when she offered him her body and heart. Harry is supposed to be a charming rogue, but he comes across as a manipulative opportunist, a ne'er do well who deceives his precious Dizzy about his passionate feelings for her because he's too cowardly to admit to her his \\"defect\\" (dyslexia). In the meantime, he shadily acquires then sells off Egyptian antiquities to the highest bidders.<BR> <BR>The attitude of nonchalance and bravado that Harry outwardly projects along with his inner fear to court Dizzy until his insipid cousin Blake is on the verge of proposing to her made me lose all sympathy and respect for him. When Harry redeems himself-and Brockway tries to make him come off as a highly ethical and courageous man who's simply been misunderstood-it's too late for me to buy it. Also, though some of the dialogue was clever, which Ienjoyed, I kept waiting in frustration for something to happen. Other than Dizzy being kidnapped twice and Harry saving her, nothing happens apart from a few social outings and Dizzy nursing a wounded Harry back to health.<br />Brockway does a good job of bringing the sights and smells of Victorian Egypt to life, but this and the repartee can't save a novel sinking under the weight of an unsympathetic hero and little diverting action.	2003-08-22
US	27601358	R2JDDA644GRYTJ	0440236711	788144187	The Bridal Season	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Entertaining and Thought Provocative	As usual, Connie Brockway is in top form: wonderful characters, sexy, witty writing, fast-paced and insightful. The Bridal Season is both very entertaining and thought provocative. The hero, Sir Elliot March, is not only handsome, sensual and utterly appealing but also very principled and faced with a real moral dilemma which he resolves well. Our colorful heroine Letty Potts is a delight to watch as she charms everyone while transforming into a better person through confronting her own dilemma. For intelligent entertainment that's impossible to put down, try The Bridal Season, along with all of Connie's previous work.	2003-08-22
US	27601358	R20F0KTO5LSWQG	0449002845	781654482	Highland Bride	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Diverting Medieval Tale	Highland Bride is a diverting medieval tale about a spirited Scottish lass who captures a high member of a rival clan and forces him to marry her in order to forge an alliance which she hopes will bring peace.<br />Madlin MacKendrick becomes laird of the MacKendricks when her father and brothers are brutally murdered, apparently by the Fraser clan. As Sir Ewan Fraser is returning to Scotland as a brave and brilliant warrior who led his country's fight against their enemies, Madlin captures him and forces him to wed her. So begins a battle of wills that turns into a deep and abiding respect and love.<br />The development of the romance is sensual and satisfying, though Madlin sometimes seems a little over the top in her need to always dominate Ewan. Characters are in general well-developed and mostly sympathetic. The plot unfolds with mystery, intrigue and the threat of violence and is entertaining even though it was clear to me from early on who the mysterious bad guys were. Bieber knows how to play the drama in a scene and to write dialogue that holds the reader's interest. I can recommend the novel as a pleasant diversion.	2003-08-22
