US	27702773	RISIE7Y9L2UK3	0802815553	572724625	The Meaning of the City	Books	5	26	27	N	N	The "Shout (that) Re-echoes Through Scripture From Beginning to End"-Jacques Ellul	\\"COME OUT OF BABYLON (Rome), MY PEOPLE\\".  Revelation 18, Daniel 2<br /><br />This book is so beautiful.  It's the first book I've read by Jacques Ellul.  If all of his other books are similarly written, I'm totally sold on them.  This book is the best book I've ever read by a christian author.  It's very substantive, and you can tell throughout each and every page, that the author is steeped in biblical understanding and wisdom.  Babylon doesn't exist anymore, though within 100 miles from Baghdad, Babylon is a symbol for all that is wrong with human civilization.  So what does Babylon symbolize?  What is it about this type of city that G-d despises, and how can the city please G-d?  The leaving of the city is also symbolic; getting out of the mob is no easy matter, though physically still in the city, one's previously good mob friends will more than likely kill you when you get out (my thoughts).  So the leaving I believe, though Ellul does not directly say it is spiritual, symbolic.<br /><br />My favorite chapter is the first, \\"The Builders\\", where Ellul speaks mostly about the first half dozen chapters of Genesis and how the first city was built by the first murderer, Cain, who killed his brother Abel.  G-d told Cain that his brother's cries were heard by Him.  Once Cain realizes his grave wrongdoing, G-d offers him protection by 'setting a mark' on him.  Yet Cain seemingly takes no stock of this act of grace by G-d, and determined to secure eternity for himself, builds a city, and begets children.  The city without G-d's presence and without citizens who acknowledge His sovereignty has a spiritual power of its own which draws people into everything the city has to offer, all of which is destructive and becomes a place, as Nahum, the Hebrew prophet cries, 'a bloody city, full of lies and distortions, no end of victims'.  Yet G-d sanctified Jerusalem, an ordinary pagan city, by His presence, when King David captured the city for the jews.  And this was the place where G-d redeemed mankind for all of our sins, potentially, if one truly gets out of these evil networks found among people who inhabit cities.  The last chapters deal with the New Jerusalem described in books like Revelation and Ezekiel.  This book, I believe, sounds the warning found in Ezekiel 33 from the watchman who sees the enemy coming and must alert the cities' inhabitants of G-d's coming judgment because it is clear from scripture that He will punish those (maybe not in this lifetime, but surely in the life to come) who twist the truth, who exalt themselves, who trample upon the livelihood of people, and those who foster all manner of deceivableness.  This is a book that I got from the library, and is long overdue.  One day I will buy this book to have on hand, its contents very valuable.<br /><br />Jacques Ellul is a French protestant lawyer and sociologist by profession, protestant christian by faith.  His life, I'm discovering, unique.  He was involved with the French underground during WWII and after the war defended in court people who would have killed him because they were treated so mercilessly afterwards in breach of law.  He's written many books in his lifetime.  He died in 1994 at the age of 82, his life spanning both world wars in France.  Once he became a christian in his twenties, he became enamored with Karl Barth's writings/theology and became a member of the Reformed Church.  I'd love to read a biography about him.  This book, I absolutely adore.  He dedicated this book to his son Simon who died while he was writing it.mankind for all of our sins, potentially, if one truly gets out of these evil networks found among people who inhabit cities.  The last chapters deal with the New Jerusalem described in books like Revelation and Ezekiel.  This book, I believe, sounds the warning found in Ezekiel 33 from the watchman who sees the enemy coming and must alert the cities' inhabitants of G-d's coming judgment because it is clear from scripture that He will punish those (maybe not in this lifetime, but surely in the life to come) who twist the truth, who exalt themselves, who trample upon the livelihood of people, and those who foster all manner of deceivableness.  This is a book that I got from the library, and is long overdue.  One day I will buy this book to have on hand, its contents very valuable.    Jacques Ellul is a French protestant lawyer and sociologist by profession, protestant christian by faith.  His life, I'm discovering, unique.  He was involved with the French underground during WWII and after the war defended in court people who would have killed him because they were treated so mercilessly afterwards in breach of law.  He's written many books in his lifetime.  He died in 1994 at the age of 82, his life spanning both world wars in France.  Once he became a christian in his twenties, he became enamored with Karl Barth's writings/theology and became a member of the Reformed Church.  I'd love to read a biography about him.  This book, I absolutely adore.  He dedicated this book to his son Simon who died while he was writing it.	2005-09-27
US	27702773	R1VE0VER5HHFC6	083864077X	472713745	Eurabia: The Euro-Arab Axis	Books	5	46	59	N	Y	"It Rings Old Bells..."-Bat Ye'Or	Very ancient ones indeed.  As ancient as 600 BCE.  Read the biblical book of Daniel, chapter 7 in particular.  The enemies of G-d are those kingdoms which conquered Judea so that no Davidic king would or has ever rule(d) again in Israel.  (Christians believe Christ is a descendant of David through His earthly, foster, jewish parents and who will return again to reclaim His kingdom and His people).  The kingdoms described in chapter 7 are arabic-Persian and Babylonian, and european-Greek and Roman.<br /><br />In chapter 17, \\"Eurabia Against America\\", Bat Ye'Or discusses why many european leaders and media spokespersons have become so Anti-American, Anti-Israeli, and pro-Islam.  America, under George W. Bush's leadership has clearly responded strongly against Al-Qaeda, the terrorist forces behind the World Trade Center attack in 2001 and many other terrorist attacks throughout the world.  Bat Ye'Or quoted one French spokesperson for the Paris Foundation of Strategic Research who had called for a break with ties to the U.S. and expressed some sympathies with Al-Qaeda.  And upon that thought she asks the question \\"Are we to understand by this that Europe, unable to fight terror, should seek protection by siding with al-Qaeda?  It rings old bells...\\"  That there has been political maneuvering by some europeans at the expense of the Israelis has been documented in this book too, but to my mind comes evidence from Israel's long time, former defense minister, Moshe Dayan's autobiography where he talks about the many crises Israelis faced pre and post May 14, 1948.  French President Charles de Gaulle aided Nasser's Egypt indirectly by denying the Israeli's the ammunition they had bought from France because the French didn't want Israel to start a war, and yet the Soviets were at that time readily pouring arms into Egypt as early as 1967 and which continued in Egypt and places like Syria up until 1973 when the horrific, but fortunately brief Yom Kippur War was waged.<br /><br />That there has been active collaboration of peoples within these regions of the world, Eur-abia, on various projects inimical to the welfare of the free, western world, is quite, quite obvious.  The Great War, WWI, was a result of Kaiser Wilhelm, inflaming parts of Europe and the muslim world against, primarily Great Britain where his cousin, King George V ruled.  The Germans had initiated a railway, funded by the Deutsche Bank to link Berlin to Baghdad as early as 1903.  The German Kaiser  approved of the many massacres of Armenians throughout the late 1800's and early 1900's which culminated in the most infamous of massacres, the Armenian Genocide of 1914-1917 which resulted in the deaths of one million plus persons which of course was merely a prelude to what happened in Germany from 1933-1945 which culminated in the Shoah, the Holocaust which resulted in the deaths of six million plus persons, as we all know.  See books like The High Walls of Jerusalem by Ronald Sanders, Peter Hopkirk's Great Game series, Peter Balakian's The Burning Tigris.<br /><br />This book is Bat Ye'Or's latest book and of all her books, it is the most contemporary one, most relevant to events happening in the world today.  However, her other books lay the foundation for not only this book's contents but for understanding how the world of Islam operates, particularly with relation to other peoples like jews, christians, hindus, etc. who have been conquered by Islamic forces.  In this book, she examines how europeans have responded to events such as those in Lebanon in the 1970's and 1980's.  \\"While the PLO and its allies preyed on the Lebanese christians, wiping out whole villages, desecrating and burning churches, murdering and mutilating corpses (as at Damur in 1976), Europe was supporting Arafat.\\"  Hmm.  And the PLO, Hamas, and Al-Qaeda are the most militant and rabid groups of muslims that exist in the world today.  And to my knowledge are the ones readily flocking to Gaza and southern Lebanon, which used to be populated mostly by christians, to terrorize innocent Israeli civilians, like the Orthodox jewish man who was stabbed to death just a few days ago.  It seems to me that we should all be very wary of not only who we support but of who we believe and should think very carefully of ways we can not help those who destroy.  Isn't that what anti-terrorism is all about???<br /><br />Islam is a struggle, one that will never end until the end of days.  In my mind, you will never convert me.  If you know anything about me, you'll understand what I mean by that.  I've learned so much about Islam and early christian history from reading Bat Ye'Or's few books.  One sentence which I underlined in Jacques Ellul's Foreword to her book The Decline of Eastern Christianity Under Islam, states quite truthfully, \\"the Jihad is an institution and not an event...it is part of the normal functioning of the muslim world.\\"  I must admit, I do tend to think of it as an event as that of September 11, yet the struggle on an ideological plane goes on all of the time which Bat Ye'Or documents quite scholarly all throughout this book; the many conferences and commissions that have been held by muslims and/or europeans can be found in the Appendices.  Also, Peter Balakian's book The Burning Tigris speaks of Islamic influences on Universities and Colleges in America.  I found also very informative Bat Ye'Or's 16th chapter entitled \\"The Islamization of Christianity\\" which is also not a recent phenomenon nor is Eurabia.  Anyway, Eurabia is definitely a MUST READ.  Highly recommended.<br /><br />(However, I must clarify, Bat Ye'Or makes it clear that not all europeans or arabs are anti-Israeli, pro-Islam, or anti-American, but for the most part, those speaking the loudest, within the media and political circles, tend to reflect these Nazi-esque attitudes.  Also, in response to another reviewer, about American, evangelical or protestant support for Israel, one finds extremely strong support or the direct opposite, but for the most part, because these groups of people put much stock in the biblical narrative believing it is G-d's very words, I think the support is strong.  G-d's covenant with Abraham is that He would bless those who bless you, and curse those who curse you.  Also, a fellow christian told me many years ago, that the jews are usually the first groups of people to warn and notify christians when severe persecution is going on in far reaches of the globe, and his words I think have proved true time and time again).ern Lebanon, which used to be populated mostly by christians, to terrorize innocent Israeli civilians, like the Orthodox jewish man who was stabbed to death just a few days ago.  It seems to me that we should all be very wary of not only who we support but of who we believe and should think very carefully of ways we can not help those who destroy.  Isn't that what anti-terrorism is all about???<br /><br />Islam is a struggle, one that will never end until the end of days.  In my mind, you will never convert me.  If you know anything about me, you'll understand what I mean by that.  I've learned so much about Islam and early christian history from reading Bat Ye'Or's few books.  One sentence which I underlined in Jacques Ellul's Foreword to her book The Decline of Eastern Christianity Under Islam, states quite truthfully, \\"the Jihad is an institution and not an event...it is part of the normal functioning of the muslim world.\\"  I must admit, I do tend to think of it as an event as that of September 11, yet the struggle on an ideological plane goes on all of the time which Bat Ye'Or documents quite scholarly all throughout this book; the many conferences and commissions that have been held by muslims and/or europeans can be found in the Appendices.  Also, Peter Balakian's book The Burning Tigris speaks of Islamic influences on Universities and Colleges in America.  I found also very informative Bat Ye'Or's 16th chapter entitled \\"The Islamization of Christianity\\" which is also not a recent phenomenon nor is Eurabia.  Anyway, Eurabia is definitely a MUST READ.  Highly recommended.<br /><br />(However, I must clarify, Bat Ye'Or makes it clear that not all europeans or arabs are anti-Israeli, pro-Islam, or anti-American, but for the most part, those speaking the loudest, within the media and political circles, tend to reflect these Nazi-esque attitudes.  Also, in response to another reviewer, about American, evangelical or protestant support for Israel, one finds extremely strong support or the direct opposite, but for the most part, because these groups of people put much stock in the biblical narrative believing it is G-d's very words, I think the support is strong.  G-d's covenant with Abraham is that He would bless those who bless you, and curse those who curse you.  Also, a fellow christian told me many years ago, that the jews are usually the first groups of people to warn and notify christians when severe persecution is going on in far reaches of the globe, and his words I think have proved true time and time again).	2005-08-30
US	27702773	RQF2HD70SALVD	0451211480	619984812	The Confessor (Gabriel Allon)	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Couldn't put it down	I read this like one of my favorite John Grisham novels, read it in the space of 24 hours.  So it's a quick and easy read, great book to read on the airplane.  Daniel Silva tells a good story, keeps you hanging on for more clues to the crime.  The story begins with a murder in Munich of a jewish professor, Beni Shamron, son of Ari Shamron, an Israeli spy chief of sorts.  The assassin is sadistic, yet over this murder victim and many others, manages to give them last rites while they are still conscious, reciting in Latin that he absolves them of their sins in the name of the Trinity.  I don't know how to spell it, but, OOOO.  Come to find out there is a secret sect within the Vatican mixed up in this, yet the current, Italian Pope is secretly trying to clean house of these horrific types of clergy.  Come to find out, there were other mysterious murders of two simple, parish priests and a nun in Italy previous to this murder.  Enter Gabriel Allon, an Israeli spy, trained assassin, who is an art restorer by trade, employed in Venice, intent on finding the killer of his friend.  At first I didn't think this book would be as good as A Death in Vienna, but was I surprised.  So far, for Daniel Silva's New York Times best sellers, I love them all!	2005-08-30
US	27702773	R2M7QNK0YGIJZB	0805241760	908632214	The Yom Kippur War: The Epic Encounter That Transformed the Middle East	Books	5	10	14	N	N	No Deception Here	It was somewhat ironic reading about commanders named Moses racing to the front in the Sinai peninsula to fight the Egyptians.  Haven't we heard of this story before?<br /><br />It took me longer to read the book than it took to end the fighting, yet it was so hard for me to imagine what those men went through for two solid weeks of non-stop fighting on two fronts, one in the Sinai, the other on the Golan Heights.  True, the story is told from an Israeli perspective, true that the bulk of the book is concerned with battlefield tactics and the actual battlegrounds themselves.  There were enough maps in the book for me; I found that I didn't consult them so much, and the details were sufficient for me given that the author's descriptions and narrations, for me, made up for any details lacking in the maps.  Rabinovich doesn't glorify any of the Israeli leaders, but realistically portrays their characters.  No one was without their faults or miscalculations in this extremely fast-paced war.  It started with a vengeance with Egypt and Syria attacking the miniscule Israeli ground forces distributed thinly across the respective two fronts.  The attacks came as a surprise, yet the Israelis had had some warnings, most notably from Israel's neighbor from the east.  My favorite chapter, \\"Aftermath\\" was the last where Rabinovich discusses the impact the Yom Kippur War has had on global politics and warfare.  He states that it was really the hitherto unknown Anwar Sadat who was the victor politically.  In terms of actual fighting, neither side really won with the Israelis perhaps slightly ahead having crossed the Suez and not far from either Cairo or Damascus.  His dismissing his Soviet advisors, sending them out of Egypt, was misinterpreted by the Israeli command, most notably by Moshe Dayan, as a sign that war was not in the offing and that the Egyptian army was indeed only engaged in military exercises on the other side of the Suez canal pre-war.  After reading Rabinovich's explanation of the war's details, it is understandable why Israeli military families were so upset and angry after the war with their leaders, most notably Moshe Dayan, who, banking on Israel's successes in the six day war of 1967, were slow in responding to the crisis.  Yet, actually, once this war began, Israelis readily responded to the call.  The fact that the war started at the beginning of the jews' most holy day, actually was beneficial to the Israelis given that most people were readily available and easily notified, and prayer shawls actually came in handy during the fighting as an identification mark during the battles as to which side they belonged to.  When Golda Meir was given the list of Israeli prisoners, knowing the list should have been well over one hundred, but was at war's end only 60 or so, she broke down and cried.  Right before the war, she had had to travel to Europe, and there was an incident on the continent involving Israeli hostages held by two armed Palestinians; she was in Europe on behalf of a few Russian jews who were having difficulties immigrating to Israel.  After the war, she put in her resignation.  Tragic too that militant fundamentalists of Islam assasinated Sadat 4 years later in 1977 since he, as well as many other Egyptians, were making headway with the peace process.<br /><br />All these details are found in this book; this book was the first I've read about Israel's wars, will not be the last.  So, I'm starting backwards, and the six day war looks like it will be next for me.  I became fascinated with Moshe Dayan when I visited Israel in 2000 before the Intifada broke out.  My church's Israeli tour guide told us of how Moshe Dayan, following the reclaiming of ground in Jerusalem before the Western Wall (sometimes called the Wailing Wall) in 1967 during the six days war, ordered his soldiers to take down the Israeli flag they had placed on the temple mount because he did not wish to provoke a reaction in the non-jewish communities in Israel.  In Rabinovich's opinion, Moshe Dayan was right on many scores, one in particular that Golda Meir had rejected, although he misread Egypt's intentions.  All in all, Rabinovich recreates the atmosphere surrounding those parties involved in this war although of course the subject matter for the most part was so dreadful and tragic.  I bought this book having read other reviews about it, and it seems like it will be one referred to often on the subject since Rabinovich had access, decades later of course, to information not readily available to previous authors.  He was a reporter for this war in Israel in 1973, and for this book he interviewed many people who took part in it.  After the war, the Sinai peninsula was lost to the nation of Israel which was ground gained as a sort of buffer zone in 1967.  For me, this was the first book I read about General, now Prime Minister, Ariel Sharon, who entered the fray several days after it started having retired from the IDF three months previously.  It was probably due to his bullheadedness that Israel crossed the Suez Canal.  One of my favorite quotes in the book came from a previously dispirited Moshe Dayan who remarked about Sharon, \\"If I know Arik, he will go to Cairo and get them to vote for Likud (Israel's conservative party)!\\"  This book was very informative for me and very well written.  For those interested in Israel's recent history, recommended.ael.  In Rabinovich's opinion, Moshe Dayan was right on many scores, one in particular that Golda Meir had rejected, although he misread Egypt's intentions.  All in all, Rabinovich recreates the atmosphere surrounding those parties involved in this war although of course the subject matter for the most part was so dreadful and tragic.  I bought this book having read other reviews about it, and it seems like it will be one referred to often on the subject since Rabinovich had access, decades later of course, to information not readily available to previous authors.  He was a reporter for this war in Israel in 1973, and for this book he interviewed many people who took part in it.  After the war, the Sinai peninsula was lost to the nation of Israel which was ground gained as a sort of buffer zone in 1967.  For me, this was the first book I read about General, now Prime Minister, Ariel Sharon, who entered the fray several days after it started having retired from the IDF three months previously.  It was probably due to his bullheadedness that Israel crossed the Suez Canal.  One of my favorite quotes in the book came from a previously dispirited Moshe Dayan who remarked about Sharon, \\"If I know Arik, he will go to Cairo and get them to vote for Likud (Israel's conservative party)!\\"  This book was very informative for me and very well written.  For those interested in Israel's recent history, recommended.	2005-05-14
US	27702773	R16TYI7QB6ZYS9	1568491980	5083689	The Untouchables	Books	5	27	31	N	Y	"BEYOND BRIBERY OR BULLETS"-Oscar Fraley	\\"One thing was certain: someone had declared open season on Elliot Ness, and it was a damned uncomfortable feeling.\\"-Elliot Ness<br /><br />The sale or consumption of alcohol was not really the problem.  The Sicilian mafia landed on American shores sometime around 1899.  One of their most notorious progeny was \\"Scarface\\" Al Capone with whom Elliot Ness did battle from 1929-1931.  Elliot Ness had nearly finished this true story before he died of a heart attack at age 54 in 1957.  This book is not a biography of Ness's life, just an account of the two and one half years during which time he and his ten or so hand-picked federal men finally succeeded in stopping Capone in his murderous tracks.  The story is mostly about raid after countless raid of breweries by Ness's \\"untouchables\\" in the Chicago area during Prohibition and the Depression years.  While millions of Americans were starving, shoeless and jobless, Capone and Co. were living the high life and living it as if they were above the law itself.  Or so they thought...<br /><br />Ness chose his men carefully like Gideon in Judges 7; they had to be beyond reproach, content to live on a $2800/year salary and strong enough to resist the temptation of Capone's thugs constantly flaunting thousand dollar bills and diamond-studded fat, fleshy fingers under their noses.  Money is powerful in its effects, yet more powerful were those like Ness and co. who, under the law were content to live by it, and who with the law put a lot of rotten, murderous apples behind federal bars.  The chief problem with Capone was not just flat out lawlessness or the profligacy his rackets engendered, but corruption which had seeped into all areas of the judicial system, police force, federal agents, judges, lawyers, and other court officials; Capone had lots of money to throw around from the profits of his liquor selling illegal enterprise, and because he never somehow had to pay income taxes.  That was the reason why Ness was so careful in selecting his men and also the main reason for their success in finally undoing Capone's vast network of criminals.  Once, one of his men working undercover took money from one of Capone's gang, and admitted it to Ness.  Ness told him to find the same man and give him back the exact dollar amount he had been given.<br /><br />Elliot Ness was the coolest fed that ever lived (in my opinion).  One had to be tough dealing with the mafia; they stopped at nothing to preserve their domineering hold in their cities.  I think that just because Ness did not suffer physical harm from Capone and co. may lead some to think that Capone was not so bad, Ness's life was not so threatened.  However, I think it just proves that he really had his wits about him and was sober to every aspect of the circumstances surrounding himself and his men; the threat and evidences of the mafia's revenge such as bullets in their enemies' heads and body parts mutilated is evidence enough to me that Elliot Ness and his \\"untouchables\\" were in a deadly battle dealing with the Mafia.  Capone had hired Tony Napoli to kill him, read the book and you'll find out how Ness survived.<br /><br />Exodus 23:8 And you shall take no bribe, for a bribe blinds the discerning and perverts the words of the righteous.n and also the main reason for their success in finally undoing Capone's vast network of criminals.  Once, one of his men working undercover took money from one of Capone's gang, and admitted it to Ness.  Ness told him to find the same man and give him back the exact dollar amount he had been given.    Elliot Ness was the coolest fed that ever lived (in my opinion).  One had to be tough dealing with the mafia; they stopped at nothing to preserve their domineering hold in their cities.  I think that just because Ness did not suffer physical harm from Capone and co. may lead some to think that Capone was not so bad, Ness's life was not so threatened.  However, I think it just proves that he really had his wits about him and was sober to every aspect of the circumstances surrounding himself and his men; the threat and evidences of the mafia's revenge such as bullets in their enemies' heads and body parts mutilated is evidence enough to me that Elliot Ness and his \\"untouchables\\" were in a deadly battle dealing with the Mafia.  Capone had hired Tony Napoli to kill him, read the book and you'll find out how Ness survived.    Exodus 23:8 And you shall take no bribe, for a bribe blinds the discerning and perverts the words of the righteous.	2005-03-31
US	27702773	R2EEEQH5R7CN2R	0446523585	512093900	Lionhearts: Heroes of Israel	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	"TO GIVE WITHOUT ASKING ANYTHING IN RETURN"	This is the title of the final chapter written by former Prime Minister, Benyamin Netanyahu about a young Israeli special forces member named Nir Poraz who, in Yoni Netanyahu style, tried to rescue a captive Israeli Defense Force (IDF) soldier, Nachshon Waxman, held by Palestinian terrorists.  He led the way of the Israeli forces and was killed along with Waxman in the operation on October 14, 1994.  There are 52 similar chapters about Israeli's who did similar or just simply patriotic, brave acts on behalf of their nation written not only by Israeli statesmen but also citizens who had firsthand knowledge of their personages and travails.  The book starts with Joseph Trumpeldor's story and death.  He was an ardent, young Zionist born in Russia who fought in WWI and who died when militant arabs invaded Kibbutz Tel Hai in Upper Galilee.<br /><br />This book was written to coincide with the 50th anniversary of the creation of the modern state of Israel in 1998.  It is divided into 7 chronological sections; each section summarizes the crises facing the nation during those time periods and gives a brief history of them.  I couldn't make it through the introduction without a few shed tears, so be forewarned.  Not all of the stories are so tragic, though most are.  I felt many times like I was reading a chapter of Judges or Joshua except that I was transported 3000 plus years ahead.  I always wondered what were the names of the 300 men that Gideon chose as fighters because their names are not given anywhere in scripture.  To my mind also came the words from the faith chapter, chapter 11, in the book of Hebrews, in the christian bible.  'These all died in faith' and about Moses 'he refused to be called the son of Pharoah's daughter, choosing rather to share ill-treatment with the people of G-d than to enjoy the fleeting pleasures of sin'.  I'm sure there are many other brave souls whose stories are not told herein.  For those unsung heroes, Isaiah inspired by G-d wrote 'Behold, I have indelibly imprinted you on the palm of each of My hands; O Zion, your walls are continually before Me' (49:16).  I particularly enjoyed reading about Moshe Dayan, although he does not have an entire chapter written about him, but he is mentioned many times as in the chapter about his friend \\"Amos Yarkoni\\" who was a palestinian IDF fighter.  You finish this book, you'll have to agree that Israel is also a 'land of the brave'.'Behold, I have indelibly imprinted you on the palm of each of My hands; O Zion, your walls are continually before Me' (49:16).  I particularly enjoyed reading about Moshe Dayan, although he does not have an entire chapter written about him, but he is mentioned many times as in the chapter about his friend \\"Amos Yarkoni\\" who was a palestinian IDF fighter.  You finish this book, you'll have to agree that Israel is also a 'land of the brave'.	2005-03-18
US	27702773	R1NSF8GWMNWERT	0743226763	188008147	Queen and Country: The Fifty-Year Reign of Elizabeth II	Books	5	9	11	N	N	The Fig Tree	\\"There was something magical about this Queen's accession to the throne.  She is the only woman known to have gone up a tree a Princess and come down a Queen.\\"  William Shawcross is referring to the circumstances of Her Majesty's accession which happened automatically once her father, King George VI died.  She and her husband were in Kenya at the time with a small company of courtiers and servants on a trip on behalf of her government since her father was stricken with cancer.  At a place called Treetops, which was a hut built within an enormous and old fig tree, the small royal entourage watched all sorts of wildlife gather at a salt lick, and it might have been when they were there that her father passed away.  I loved this story told by Lieutenant Michael Parker, the Prince's Private Secretary: \\"Parker remembered ever after that as they sat there a large white eagle circled and swooped low above their heads.  He was concerned that it might even dive on them.  Later he realized that the appearance of the eagle had almost coincided with the moment when the King died.\\"<br /><br />Shawcross wrote this book to coincide with Her Majesty's golden jubilee.  As a protestant American, I've always scoffed at all of the pageantry which the British subject themselves to.  You must understand my religion is a no frills religion, my government, a no frills government.  A monarchy of any kind seems outdated.  What purpose could it possibly serve?  And so too today, there are some in Great Britain who feel the same way.  At one of my workplaces, a British couple would talk about such things like the Trooping of the Color as if it were some grand event not to be missed.  What is the Trooping of the Color, I thought?  Who cares, was another?  I'm slowly beginning to understand why.<br /><br />I wish I had read this book before Ben Pimlott's.  It is infinitely easier to read, not as detailed.  Shawcross's chapter on \\"Constitutional Monarch\\" is infinitely easier to comprehend than others I've tried to read.  He has clearly written this book for the lay reader.  I'm finally beginning to understand vaguely the workings of the British system of government.  And most importantly why people love this particular monarch so much the world over and why the Brits are so fond of the monarchy.  It somehow doesn't seem so strange to me anymore.  Shawcross succeeds in revealing Queen Elizabeth II's character traits which account for her popularity the world over, even if she has some fierce critics in her own country.  In her relationships with the many prime ministers who have come her way, she has never forced her opinions on anyone, always advising, and listening to their concerns about issues and crises.  She is somehow above the fray, making it easy to accomodate a new prime minister, whether they be Conservative or Labour leaders.  Many prominent statesmen make some of the same comments about her that she has had a stabilizing influence in so many crises around the world.  Reading this book you'll understand too how Great Britain has evolved, changed so much since the beginning of her reign.  Shawcross states in his closing chapter that \\"In all the turmoil and change, only the Queen has remained the same-a still small voice of calm at the vortex of the storm.\\"<br /><br />Her role of peacemaker stems from her character, her religious beliefs, her sense of duty, undoubtably instilled within her from her symbolic anointing with oil during her coronation ceremony in 1953.  I loved Pimlott's detailed description of the ceremony.  Shawcross also quotes Pimlott  quite often.  I share with you a quote I loved by Lord Tweedsmuir/John Buchan in his Pilgrim's Way about King George V, Queen Elizabeth II's grandfather:  \\"He had one key of access to all hearts, his sincere love of his fellows....His simplicity, honesty, and warm human sympathy made themselves felt not only in the Empire but throughout the globe, so that millions who owed him no allegiance seemed toknow and love him.  He was a pillar of all that was stable and honourable and of good report in a distracted world.\\"<br /><br />There are many photos in this small book, my favorite being the Corgis descending the steps of a Royal airplane.  They're so cute!med to know and love him.  He was a pillar of all that was stable and honourable and of good report in a distracted world.\\" <br /> <br />There are many photos in this small book, my favorite being the Corgis descending the steps of a Royal airplane.  They're so cute!	2005-03-18
US	27702773	R72XW5NPRDHYR	1583340726	280833806	Wee Bit of Irish Wisdom, A	Books	5	1	1	N	N	"It is a true saying that most everyone is Irish..."	\\"...on St. Patrick's day.\\"-Jim Gallery<br /><br />My mother gave me this book in 2002.  This wee book has only 119 pages of quotes from 36 or so Irish persons.  There are 9 chapters filled with these sayings along with trivia about Ireland like: \\"At any place on the Emerald Isle, you are only a maximum of 70 miles from the sea\\", and \\"St. Patrick used the Shamrock to illustrate the mystery of the trinity\\".  There are also lots of Irish toasts and blessings like \\"Here's to absent friends and here's twice to absent enemies!\\"  Here, here!	2005-03-17
US	27702773	R1RJE7FHXMOFI	047119431X	937172544	The Queen: A Biography of Elizabeth II	Books	5	12	13	N	N	"The Family of Families"	Her Majesty's immediate family, her mother, also Queen Elizabeth, later the Queen Mum, her father, King George VI, and her sister Margaret, were considered the \\"family of families\\" by the British public throughout King George VI's reign, particularly during the War years of 1939-1945.  When Ben Pimlott wrote this book in 1996 the year of Her Majesty's 70th birthday, the Royal family's reputation was beseiged during a time when (British, I assume, anti-monarchical) republicanism was at its height and on the rise.  However, during  the first decades of Queen Elizabeth II's lengthy reign, the publics' feelings on the monarchy were unquestionably favorable which you'll understand by reading the book.  Millions the world over watched Her Majesty's wedding, (when she was still a Princess), and later her coronation; for many people, it was the first time they had ever watched television.  So Ben Pimlott writes in his  Preface that his book \\"is a book about the Queen in people's heads, as well as at Buckingham Palace\\".<br /><br />Ben Pimlott was \\"absolutely a patriot\\", his wife declared to the press following his death at age 58, almost a year ago, (he died on April 10, 2004, the day before Easter), after a short travail with leukemia.  \\"He wanted, and believed, that the world and Britain could be a better place and that Goldsmiths could be a better place, and that poor people ought to have a brilliant university.\\"  Stumbling on his obituaries, I've become enamored with his life's work, (although short), and impressed with how well he was thought of; so many people were saddened by his passing.  He was Warden of Goldsmiths University of London at the time.  He had attended Oxford University when Bill Clinton was then a student there for one year.  Professor Ken O Morgan wrote of him in an obituary that \\"he was one of the most important historians ever of the British left\\".  Poor Brit, he was born on the fourth of July!<br /><br />Ben Pimlott wrote two other biographies before The Queen, one about Hugh Dalton, another Labour leader who was Chancellor during WWII and also son of Queen Victoria's chaplain, and Harold Wilson, who was prime minister and also of the Labour party.  He also edited and made available to the public Hugh Dalton's private diaries.  He was somewhat apprehensive about writing this book, anticipating criticism from his colleagues.<br /><br />Her Majesty invited Ben Pimlott over to Windsor Castle while he was writing this book, but interestingly, the book's contents were not discussed; he was merely invited over, I assume, for tea and a nice chat.  In writing this book, he interviewed several former prime ministers, Princess Margaret, the Archbishop of Canterbury, Lord Runcie.  He used The diaries of Jock Colville, Queen Elizabeth's and Churchill's private secretary for source material.  The Telegraph noted that he wrote this book to \\"examine constitutional issues such as the royal prerogative, her relationships with her prime ministers and her role as Head of the Commonwealth. These were matters which had tended to become obscured by the scandals and the gossip which were increasingly the preoccupation of some sections of the media.\\"  In 2002, he gave a lecture on the monarchy at St. Paul's Cathedral.  This past January at Goldsmiths, the Ben Pimlott building was dedicated.<br /><br />I write all the above about Ben Pimlott to suggest that this is the definitive biography of Her Majesty, the queen.  It is a rather lengthy one about a rather lengthy reign.  Ben Pimlott's treatment of her life is extremely thorough; the many chapters' headings are years.  I thoroughly enjoyed reading about Her Majesty's childhood; I also knew precious little about the majority of her life.  She was one of King George V's favorite grandchildren.  She did not have the typical childhood friends when she was little.  She had her sister Margaret, of course, but of other childhood friends, she had mostly visitors.  She and her sister were babysat on occasion of the U.S. Ambassador to Great Britain's, dubbed the \\"evil envoy\\" by the public, visit to her father the King by Rose Kennedy, the ambassador's wife.  She was closest in age to Ted and Jean of this Kennedy clan.  Other Americans became enamored with her, most notably Harry Truman.  No telling how many hands she has shaken or people she has met the world over.  My mother tells me that everyone has often commented that she is more beautiful in person, more beautiful than the best photos or portraits of her.  A British aquaintance of mine who has met the Queen told me that \\"she's only 5 feet tall, you know\\", yet he is more than 6 feet tall, as Pimlott was, which accounts for his inaccuracy; she is actually 5'4\\".<br /><br />I had hoped to learn more about how the Sovereign's power has been diminished by, I assume, Parliament, and to understand more just how different America's structure of government is from the British system, but, again, that is subject material for other books.  I had come to the conclusion in the 90's that the Queen should be taxed like everyone else, makes sense to Americans, yet King George V had always urged the Windsor family not to give in to these parliamentary demands, demands that, in the 90's had reached such a pitch and fervor, that the monarch, finally, acquiesced which Pimlott reveals.  Another biographer of royalist sentiments is Kenneth Rose who wrote a book on King George V who Pimlott mentions now and then.  When I read in Rose's book the chapter on Constitutional Monarchy, I was so shocked that I couldn't finish the chapter or the book, (it was actually a difficult, but substantive, chapter to read).  Didn't we Americans get rid of the king to get the Constitution?  How can there be a king and a constitution at the same time???  Anyway, the one thing that enamours me to the queen is that she studied constitutional issues, long before she ever ascended the throne.  What a smart monarch!  (I'm afraid I'm fast becoming a royalist, how unamerican of me!)  Anyway, CHEERS, and GOD SAVE THE QUEEN!U.S. Ambassador to Great Britain's, dubbed the \\"evil envoy\\" by the public, visit to her father the King by Rose Kennedy, the ambassador's wife.  She was closest in age to Ted and Jean of this Kennedy clan.  Other Americans became enamored with her, most notably Harry Truman.  No telling how many hands she has shaken or people she has met the world over.  My mother tells me that everyone has often commented that she is more beautiful in person, more beautiful than the best photos or portraits of her.  A British aquaintance of mine who has met the Queen told me that \\"she's only 5 feet tall, you know\\", yet he is more than 6 feet tall, as Pimlott was, which accounts for his inaccuracy; she is actually 5'4\\".    I had hoped to learn more about how the Sovereign's power has been diminished by, I assume, Parliament, and to understand more just how different America's structure of government is from the British system, but, again, that is subject material for other books.  I had come to the conclusion in the 90's that the Queen should be taxed like everyone else, makes sense to Americans, yet King George V had always urged the Windsor family not to give in to these parliamentary demands, demands that, in the 90's had reached such a pitch and fervor, that the monarch, finally, acquiesced which Pimlott reveals.  Another biographer of royalist sentiments is Kenneth Rose who wrote a book on King George V who Pimlott mentions now and then.  When I read in Rose's book the chapter on Constitutional Monarchy, I was so shocked that I couldn't finish the chapter or the book, (it was actually a difficult, but substantive, chapter to read).  Didn't we Americans get rid of the king to get the Constitution?  How can there be a king and a constitution at the same time???  Anyway, the one thing that enamours me to the queen is that she studied constitutional issues, long before she ever ascended the throne.  What a smart monarch!  (I'm afraid I'm fast becoming a royalist, how unamerican ofme!)  Anyway, CHEERS, and GOD SAVE THE QUEEN!	2005-03-16
US	27702773	R75NG5ZMR272M	0393317552	733405472	Guns, Germs, and Steel: The Fates of Human Societies	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Answers to Yali	Q:Yali:\\"Why is it that you white people developed so much cargo and brought it to New Guinea, but we black people had little cargo of our own?\\"<br /><br />A:Diamond:\\"The striking differences between the long-term histories of peoples of the different continents have been due not to innate differences in the peoples themselves but to differences in their environments.\\"<br /><br />That is a politically correct answer, yet if you read all of the evidence and arguments between the prologue and the epilogue where the question and answer are posed you'll be convinced by Professor Diamond's thesis.  This 1997 book won several awards, most notably the Pulitzer in 1998.  I was given this book by a grad student acquaintance in the Boston area, read it a half a dozen years ago.  At the time, I was also studying the book of Daniel reading about how the world's first empires came to be so by conquest, in Daniel's case, conquering the tribes of Israel and deporting some of the vanquished to Babylon.  This secular book added another dimension to my understanding of world history's dynamics in addition to a spiritual/prophetic one.  I loved this book because it helped explain a lot of things, made me think.<br /><br />I've always loved anthropology and this book builds on one of its tenets that societies' key to becoming complex ones was the development of agriculture.  With a permanent food supply, population numbers increased, societies increasingly diversified their occupations one of which was waging war.  In societies like Papua New Guinea, a small island near Australia, where Yali was a tribal chieftain, most of the inhabitants subsisted as hunter-gatherers not advancing to the next stage of developing agriculture.  So knowing that already, I was given a grander view of the advancement of societies by reading this book.  Although it's been years since I've read it, I still have the book, and learned many new things from Diamond's creative thinking.  As to where he got all of his intellectual cargo, he was born in Boston, probably the most book-buying state of the Union, to a physician father, linguistics teacher mother, and went to school at Harvard and Cambridge.  He now teaches Geography in addition to Physiology in California at UCLA.ll of his intellectual cargo, he was born in Boston, probably the most book-buying state of the Union, to a physician father, linguistics teacher mother, and went to school at Harvard and Cambridge.  He now teaches Geography in addition to Physiology in California at UCLA.	2005-02-12
US	27702773	R14M7MW91JU3L	0865542279	884761803	The Crucifixion of the Jews: The Failure of Christians to Understand the Jewish Experience	Books	5	13	15	N	Y	BEHOLD, ELIJAH IS HERE-I Kings 18:8	Elijah was one of Israel's greatest prophets who fled for his life from the Sidonian princess Jezebel, who was married to Ahab, a King of a divided Israel, the division happening after King Solomon's son Rehoboam.  Elijah told these words to his servant to tell Ahab that he (Elijah) would appear before him and to stop looking for him.  Ahab was the worst of Israel's kings, Jezebel, a gentile, their worst queen; they made unholy alliances and killed the prophets I Kings 18:13 and 19:10.  They also killed and slandered and stole see I Kings 21 about Nabaioth's vineyard.<br /><br />G-d always sends someone to speak to an apostate people, someone like Elijah.  The apostates are those within the ranks of the faithful who reject the tenets or teachings of their faith.  This book was written to analyze anti-semitism, its sources, its nature, its expression, its danger.  There are two appendices in the back of this book, the first contains a document entitled \\"A Statement to our Fellow Christians\\" which was drafted by a committee working for the National Council of Churches for which the author served as chairman.  Of the 18 theologians who contributed to this letter, one third were Roman Catholic, one Greek Orthodox, the rest all Protestant; 16 of the members were American.  They address basically what the attitude of Christians should be to Jews and the nation of Israel and cite scripture and historical events to bolster their arguments.  Their last point equates antisemitism to that unforgivable sin, the blasphemy of the Holy Spirit Matthew 12:31.  They state: \\"The pain of the past has taught us that antisemitism is a Pandora's box from which spring not only atrocities against Jews but also contempt for Christ.  Whatever the antisemite inflicts on the Jews he inflicts on Christ...\\"  Littell warns in this book that \\"Recent studies show a rise in anti-semitism in the United States\\", yet he wrote this book nearly 30 years ago. What about today?  One evening in Massachusetts, I sat at a table with all Irish Catholics and one replied \\"those dirty Jews\\".  I'm sure that not everyone felt the same way, but the question remains where did he get that.  In a lesson I'm completing from a National Bible study attended by mostly Protestants, one of the questions asks, \\"What will unbelievers refuse, causing them to be deluded to believe a lie (2 Thessalonians 2:10-12?\\"  Yet can't believers believe lies too?  Didn't Christian Germany believe the lies of Hitler?  Doesn't Christ himself say that 'Many of the elect will fall away?'  Translation: Many will apostize.  Hmm.  Jesus also said in John 16:2-4: 'the hour is coming when whoever kills you will think he is offering service to G-d...They have not known the Father, nor me.  I have said these things to you, that when their hour comes you will remember that I told you of them.'  It's interesting to remember that Jesus never set foot out of The Holy Land and always spoke to audiences of nearly all jews.<br /><br />As Littell shows, one source of anti-semitism is Christian teaching itself from its earliest days which is termed displacement theory or supercessionism.  This teaching supplants judaism by suggesting that the Church, now in Christ, has nullified everything that went before in the Old Testament.  And then there is the deicide charge, that the Jews crucified Christ, which is inaccurate on many counts, and is ignorant of the fact that the Romans crucified many jews before and after Christ.  This teaching was not omitted from Vatican II as Littell writes despite much discussion over it.  Littell does not trace antisemitic teachings to the Apostle Paul, neither do I.  His (Paul's) attitude to his fellow Jews is best expressed in the letter of Romans which is cited by Littell in his second chapter entitled \\"Christian Antisemitism\\".<br /><br />There's much in this little book, much of which I've not relayed to you.  I leave you with this statement of Littell's: \\"A rise of Antisemitism is often the first seismographic reading on a serious shifting and shearing along the fault lines of bedrock Christianity.  The fundamental fault line...is a line of false teaching about the Jewish people.\\"  Well worth the read, highly recommended for my fellow Christians.s often the first seismographic reading on a serious shifting and shearing along the fault lines of bedrock Christianity.  The fundamental fault line...is a line of false teaching about the Jewish people.\\"  Well worth the read, highly recommended for my fellow Christians.	2005-01-21
US	27702773	R1XYTLNZGXMOWQ	0385510454	797048445	The Broker: A Novel	Books	5	3	5	N	N	"IT'S FICTION FOLKS"	So says John Grisham in his note on the second to last page of the book.  Technology is not his bag, but law sure is.  So with that know how and experience in crafting 17 previous best sellers, he concocts a fictitious, yet believable story about a Wahington big wig who gets sent to the slammer for 6 years for, in actuality, possession of highly sensitive information.  Then he gets a pardon from the outgoing President who lost the election having received only 3 electoral votes from the state of Alaska.  All that info is in the first 3 pages of the book which had me laughing so much that my family outside my room was wondering what was so funny.  It was the circumstances surrounding the failed campaign and the future prospects of President Morgan that gave me the giggles.  So I read to my family what I had read and soon everyone was laughing.  Read it off and on within 48 hours, would've finished it last night but had picked it up too late in the day.  It would be a good movie script.<br /><br />One of my favorite lines is of Joel Backman, the power broker/big wig, who's running for his life.  Six years of jail made him somewhat repentant as he berates himself: \\"For the first time in your rotten life, why don't you do what's right, as opposed to what's profitable.\\"	2005-01-19
US	27702773	R3KAKUKFLMU32N	0195154975	565014494	The Work We Have to Do: A History of Protestants in America (Religion in American Life)	Books	5	0	1	N	Y	"BLOW YE THE TRUMPET, BLOW"	Charles Wesley, brother to John, the founder of Methodism, wrote the words to this song in 1750; Charles Wesley wrote many hymns, the most well-known one being \\"Christ the Lord is Risen Today\\" which is sung every Easter in churches of various Protestant denominations.  The lyrics are based on Leviticus 25:8-17 where G-d dictates to the levitical priests through Moses how the jubilee should be observed.  The jubilee year, the fiftieth, was the year 'to proclaim liberty throughout all the land', slaves would be set free, the land to rest.  The spirit of this time was to worship, to make the celebration holy, and especially G-d commands that 'ye shall not oppress one another'.  On the day of atonement, the tenth day of the seventh month the trumpet would be blown.<br /><br />Mark Noll explains in his preface that \\"the title for this book is taken from a prayer by Jonathan Edwards that he spoke in 1747 at the end of a funeral for his friend and student David Brainerd\\" who worked with American Indians in New England, disciplingteaching them about christianity, and was to be his son-in-law.  Jonathan Edwards was educated at Yale, brought up in a Puritan household, was active in the revival movement in America known as \\"the Great Awakening\\".  This small book is a synopsis of Protestantism in America from the colonies' earliest days to the present.  The book reveals the great diversity of Protestant denominations, styles of worship, and the key leaders of Protestant America like Billy Graham, Martin Luther King, Frederick Douglas.  From Noll's narrative, you will understand how protestant beliefs and culture were impressed upon our country at various times and in various ways.  As Noll's narrative ends, he states in his epilogue, \\"How can one generalize about Protestants in America?\\"  The book was not quite what I expected, yet I was not surprised by the contents given that Noll is a Professor of History at Wheaton College.  The front cover expresses in picture the essence of what Protestants of all persuasions do: go to church for fellowship and prayer, listen to the pastor's message based on scripture, participate in church activities.  Martin Luther, the founder of Protestantism, made scripture and bible study the cornerstone of the Protestant expression of the Christian faith.  Most of the information was not new to me since I was raised Protestant, was baptized three decades ago, and taught to respect other faiths as a part of my Scots-Irish American background.  The book should interest anyone perplexed with Protestant denominations and ways which are as varied as the American populace today.  In Noll's preface, he states \\"there can be no mistaking the importance of Protestant religion for the national history\\".  I decided on the title for this review while fidgeting in my pew last Sunday when I visited a Methodist church.  (I like to skim through the hymn books during the services just reading the words).  I was planning on titling it 'Sound no trumpet' based on Christ's commands in Matthew 6:2 on how to give alms and how to pray; G-d spoke to me otherwise.<br /><br />'Blow ye the trumpet, blow!/The gladly solemn sound/let all the nations know/to earth's remotest bound:<br />Jesus, our great high priest/hath full atonement made/ye weary spirits, rest/ye mournful souls, be glad:<br />Extol the Lamb of God/the all atoning Lamb/redemption in his blood/throughout the world proclaim.<br />Ye slaves of sin and hell/your liberty receive/and safe in Jesus dwell/and blest in Jesus live:<br />Ye who have sold for nought/your heritage above/shall have it back unbought/the gift of Jesus' love:<br />The gospel trumpet hear/the news of heavenly grace/and saved from earth, appear/before your Savior's face:<br />Refrain:<br />The year of jubilee is come!/The year of jubilee is come!/Return, ye ransomed sinners, home'Protestants of all persuasions do: go to church for fellowship and prayer, listen to the pastor's message based on scripture, participate in church activities.  Martin Luther, the founder of Protestantism, made scripture and bible study the cornerstone of the Protestant expression of the Christian faith.  Most of the information was not new to me since I was raised Protestant, was baptized three decades ago, and taught to respect other faiths as a part of my Scots-Irish American background.  The book should interest anyone perplexed with Protestant denominations and ways which are as varied as the American populace today.  In Noll's preface, he states \\"there can be no mistaking the importance of Protestant religion for the national history\\".  I decided on the title for this review while fidgeting in my pew last Sunday when I visited a Methodist church.  (I like to skim through the hymn books during the services just reading the words).  I was planning on titling it 'Sound no trumpet' based on Christ's commands in Matthew 6:2 on how to give alms and how to pray; G-d spoke to me otherwise.    'Blow ye the trumpet, blow!/The gladly solemn sound/let all the nations know/to earth's remotest bound:   Jesus, our great high priest/hath full atonement made/ye weary spirits, rest/ye mournful souls, be glad:   Extol the Lamb of God/the all atoning Lamb/redemption in his blood/throughout the world proclaim.   Ye slaves of sin and hell/your liberty receive/and safe in Jesus dwell/and blest in Jesus live:   Ye who have sold for nought/your heritage above/shall have it back unbought/the gift of Jesus' love:   The gospel trumpet hear/the news of heavenly grace/and saved from earth, appear/before your Savior's face:   Refrain:  The year of jubilee is come!/The year of jubilee is come!/Return, ye ransomed sinners, home'	2005-01-15
US	27702773	R3PDBW1YSJJ1KS	0399151443	764741424	High Country (Anna Pigeon Mysteries)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	ONE HELL OF A HIKE	And high in more ways than one.  My mother has been recommending Nevada Barr books to me, especially this one since the story takes place in Yosemite National Park.  About half way through, when Anna Pigeon, the NPS's spy, begins to turn up some leads as to why four young people have disappeared presumably in the back country, I started reading High Country as if it were a John Grisham novel.  Couldn't put it down, devoured it in 24 hours.  Loved it.  My mother always gives me good books to read, I'm telling you.	2005-01-10
US	27702773	R1LQPG6G9Y7IZF	0939144301	200334052	The First Hebrew Reader: Guided Selections from the Hebrew Bible	Books	5	33	40	N	N	TORAH	The Torah contains the first five books of the Bible, also called the books of Moses, or, in Greek, the Pentateuch.  It can also, more loosely translated, refer to the entire Hebrew Bible, the christians' Old Testament, the jews' Tanakh.  The First Hebrew Reader is designed for folks like me, beginners, who want to learn biblical Hebrew.  So, the book and Cd have chosen 18 readings, of no more than 25 verses each, from each of the three major sections of the Tanakh, to teach very basic Hebrew.  I bought my copy from a jewish bookstore in Boston.  I also have some flashcards of Hebrew words from EKS publishing, the same publisher of this book.  If you plan to go to seminary where you'll have to learn Hebrew and Greek, these teaching materials will give you a jump start on this very ancient language.  The first two readings are the most famous stories of Abraham, the father, patriarch, of the jews, and also of the Ishmaelites, ancestors of some arabs.  The first story is that of G-d's covenant with Abraham, and the second is the story of the binding of Isaac which demonstrates Abraham's solid faith and resolve, and G-d's mercy in sparing Isaac from death.  The textbook has arranged the Hebrew text in a very readable form.  The strange Hebrew letters are enlarged and in bold throughout the book with the passage for study shown in Hebrew at the start of each chapter, then broken down, phrase by phrase, with the English translation juxtaposed.  The ten commandments in Hebrew is the sixth reading: don't kill, don't steal, don't bear false witness etc.  Good words to go by, plus you'll be able to say them in the original language they were given in!	2005-01-08
US	27702773	R2UZB2XPC0GGGA	0838636888	105197542	The Decline of Eastern Christianity Under Islam: From Jihad to Dhimmitude : Seventh-Twentieth Century	Books	5	18	27	N	N	LAND OF ISLAM, A 'VALLEY FULL OF DITCHES' 2 KINGS 3:16	Elisha prophesied to the King of Judah, Jehoshaphat, that he would not see wind nor rain, yet G-d would miraculously fill that dry, famished, war-ridden land with water giving sustenance and victory to Judah over the invading Moabites/Edomites.  G-d deceived the Moabites because when they looked into the ditches, they did not see water but blood, and thought their victory was ensured, or so they thought.  The reality within Dar al-Islam, however, for peoples of other faiths, most resembles ditches full of their bodies and shed blood which can be found in two photographs in this book of Armenians killed in 1915.  Of course, massacres didn't happen all of the time, yet look today at the Sudan or Israel where conflicts of some sort, these days, happen fairly frequently.<br /><br />Bashir Gemayel was the president-elect of Lebanon who was assasinated on September 14, 1982.  By faith, a Maronite Christian, he was the originator of the concept and word dhimmitude to describe the complexities of the dhimmis' (the peoples, non-muslim) world within Islamic lands.  His aim, once in office, was to rid Lebanon of PLO guerrillas, especially at the border of Israel.  He's only briefly mentioned in Bat Ye'Or's Introduction and notes whose work for 30 years has been on this subject; so, I supply you with that bit of trivia.<br /><br />This book has had my name on it for some time, yet I set it aside because I knew it would require time and concentration to faithfully digest the contents.  I purchased my copy from Bat Ye'Or herself when she was in Boston speaking at a small gathering of people where I was the only christian.  Of the books for sale, this book was recommended to me.  This book is ancient history like I never learned it, yet the contents are applicable to today's situation also.  I have to admit I had biases of my own before I read this book which were only confirmed and elaborated on in this book.  This book, I would think, should be read by seminary students because it sheds light on the state of christianity before and during the advent of Islam.  It seems that the christian world prior to 600 A.D. was riddled with factions, disputes, corruption, possibly, (I think), after the Roman emperor Constantine declared christianity the official religion of Rome in 332 A.D..  At the time of Muhammad in 622 A.D., there seemed to be two predominate factions within christianity, Nestorian (Persia) and Monophysite (elsewhere).  Muhammad took advantage of dissatisfied and oppressed christianized arab marauders and nomads in the first Islamic wave of conquests and enlisted them in his ranks to overturn an oppressive yoke of christian administrators/tax collectors.  So, it seems to me, that Islam was a reactionary movement against injustices suffered under Christian rule, yet, not all christians were as corrupt as their own overseers, and yet, christians and everyone else became victims of a new, unjust, and oppressive regime.  Proverbially, out of the frying pan, into the fire.  Yet, it is not wise to generalize, and Bat Ye'Or, to her credit, never does.  That's an amazing feat given the amount of information from so many centuries, so many cultures, so many different situations.  This book is not a speed read, but it is very thorough, very comprehensive.  It is thought provoking, and I think muslims would not be offended by her fair-minded analyses.  When I first tried to read this book, I only made it to the third chapter.  Second time around, I read the last half, first, which contains documents and letters from non-muslim and muslim persons describing life of the dhimmis in the dar al-Islam, land of Islam.  Reading it this way made the bulk of the book, in the first half, easier to comprehend.  This book was highly recommended to me, and I highly recommend it to others.  I also suggest reading from the biblical book of Daniel, Chapter 2(Nebuchadnezzar's dream, his statue), and Chapter 8 (Daniel's vision).  The split of the Roman empire is depicted in the legs of the statue, (I think).  Daniel's vision is interpreted as a conflict between Persia and Greece (Asia vs. Europe) which had been ongoing centuries before Daniel was born and continued for many centuries after Christ's birth.  More homework I give you!he legs of the statue, (I think).  Daniel's vision is interpreted as a conflict between Persia and Greece (Asia vs. Europe) which had been ongoing centuries before Daniel was born and continued for many centuries after Christ's birth.  More homework I give you!	2005-01-05
US	27702773	R3LIM3ALJEXLBC	039330048X	194237010	Alexander Hamilton: A Biography	Books	4	4	4	N	N	'Of no sect am I'-Alexander Pope	Though this biography is about 25 years old now, it's one on Hamilton that I will not part with.  Forrest McDonald has written many books on early colonial American history, on the Constitution and on the presidency of Washington and Jefferson. He is now a Distinguished University Professor at the University of Alabama.  This biography is more substantive than Brookhiser's and Brookhiser, I believe, actually consulted with Forrest McDonald when he wrote his book on Hamilton.  Our government sometimes consults McDonald on Constitutional issues.  As to political affiliations, McDonald describes himself as \\"an unreconstructed Hamiltonian Federalist\\".  (The federalist party doesn't exist anymore; the present day republican and democratic parties are both offshoots from the previously named democratic-republican party).<br /><br />I've written this review so many times, mainly because I think that this Hamilton's life deserves a careful study, particularly with regard to his work on getting the Constitution ratified and his work in the treasury department.  I highly recommend Frederick Scott Oliver's Alexander Hamilton:an Essay on Union which I've reviewed previously and Knott's Alexander Hamilton and the persistence of myth.  Oliver's book is really dated, going back to 1928, and is written from a British viewpoint.  He was a Scottish lawyer, read by Lord Tweedsmuir/John Buchan, who unfortunately only wrote several other books; his biography on Hamilton, in my opinion, is beautiful.  This biography is good too.  I love the quotes from Pope that McDonald heads every chapter with.  (Hamilton's favorite authors were Pope and Plutarch).  Chapter 8 is entitled Funding and Assumption which deals primarily with Hamilton's solution to the huge debts the colonies owed other nations following the Revolution.  Stephen Knott's suggests in his book that Hamilton's solution of setting up a sinking fund would have been a good solution to another huge debt that our Treasury Department had to deal with soon after, (I believe), Bush Sr.'s four years, yet Congress gave this suggestion little notice.  What makes McDonald's bio a standout, I think, is the depth of material he provides in explaining what he did as Treasurer.  He's also biased toward Hamilton which I think actually is a good thing and paints not so rosy a picture about Jefferson, Madison, Monroe, or Burr.<br /><br />I think this biography will stand the test of time because of its solid research from Hamilton's birth to his death; McDonald's biography is the most comprehensive and complete.  (I haven't read the newer biographies yet; I do believe this one will remain the standard).  I was particularly impressed with his treatment of Hamilton's youth and parentage.  I'd like to give this book 5 stars, yet American politics and writers to some extent alarm me.  If I could, I would give this book 4.5 stars, the 0.5 subtracted for my cautious misgivings stated previously, and, compared to Oliver's biography, Oliver really understands the characters of Hamilton, Jefferson and others, most accurately portrays them, which is what a biography should be.  To McDonald's credit, his and Oliver's agree on many points.  Highly recommended for serious students of American history and of this most notable, yet rarely noted founding father.deal with soon after, (I believe), Bush Sr.'s four years, yet Congress gave this suggestion little notice.  What makes McDonald's bio a standout, I think, is the depth of material he provides in explaining what he did as Treasurer.  He's also biased toward Hamilton which I think actually is a good thing and paints not so rosy a picture about Jefferson, Madison, Monroe, or Burr.     I think this biography will stand the test of time because of its solid research from Hamilton's birth to his death; McDonald's biography is the most comprehensive and complete.  (I haven't read the newer biographies yet; I do believe this one will remain the standard).  I was particularly impressed with his treatment of Hamilton's youth and parentage.  I'd like to give this book 5 stars, yet American politics and writers to some extent alarm me.  If I could, I would give this book 4.5 stars, the 0.5 subtracted for my cautious misgivings stated previously, and, compared to Oliver's biography, Oliver really understands the characters of Hamilton, Jefferson and others, most accurately portrays them, which is what a biography should be.  To McDonald's credit, his and Oliver's agree on many points.  Highly recommended for serious students of American history and of this most notable, yet rarely noted founding father.	2004-12-30
US	27702773	R2XHUYKAA9GJ1L	0895261006	504268522	Onward Muslim Soldiers: How Jihad Still Threatens America and the West	Books	5	18	20	N	N	Jihad-Jihad-Jihad	The title, I think, sums up the contents of the book.  The book is divided into three parts: Jihad Now, Jihad Then, The Great Jihad Cover-Up.  Robert Spencer dedicates the book to \\"victims of jihad and dhimmitude worldwide:Your sufferings are not forgotten\\".<br /><br />This book is a MUST READ, especially given the daily news of instability, explosions, etc. in Iraq and other muslim countries where our troops are deployed.  Spencer has studied Islam, read the Koran, Mohammed's commentaries (ahadith) on it, for over twenty years.  He acknowledges that many leaders of Islam are highly educated and that really the Osama Bin Ladens of the world are not really fundamentalist, extremist, which is usually the way the West judges them, they are really just being true to the example of Mohammed's ideology of Jihad-Jihad-Jihad in the dar al-harb \\"domain of war\\" in non muslim lands.  He grabs your attention at the start when he speaks of an incident within the U.S. army on March 22, 2003 when a muslim Sargeant killed 2 people, wounded 15 others as a protest against the war.  He argues that Jihad is the foundation of this religion, given through the example of Mohammed and his writings; Jihad, yes, literally translated does mean simply a struggle and can be manifested in more peaceable, non violent ways such as through ideological discussions/literature, yet, it almost always manifests itself, in violence and murders as has happened in the Sudan and elsewhere wherever the religion of Islam is professed.  He states that looking at the international situation, where violence occurs, civil wars are fought, an extremely high percentage of the time, the battlelines are drawn where Islam interfaces with other peoples not professing Islam.  Three choices are given to others conquered by muslims: convert, if no, death, or payment of Jizhiya, a heavy tax/toll to muslims.  When muslims speak of tolerance, it cannot be compared to that which Americans speak of which Spencer notes time and again.<br /><br />There is much substance in this 300 page book.  Throughout, he gives scripture verses etc. from the Koran and other muslim authors to prove his points.  The last chapter is probably the most important entitled \\"How to fight the war we're in\\" where he discusses how mosques should be monitored, immigration curtailed to deal with terrorists.  He mentions how liberal left politicians have invoked Bill of Rights types of arguments defending muslim Americans, and shows that in many cases that is a very dangerous thing to do for the security of the majority of American citizens.  He also states very clearly that not all muslims are terrorists, so I think he paints a very realistic and understanding picture of the situation as it is.  HIGHLY RECOMMENDED.nd again.   <br /> <br />There is much substance in this 300 page book.  Throughout, he gives scripture verses etc. from the Koran and other muslim authors to prove his points.  The last chapter is probably the most important entitled \\"How to fight the war we're in\\" where he discusses how mosques should be monitored, immigration curtailed to deal with terrorists.  He mentions how liberal left politicians have invoked Bill of Rights types of arguments defending muslim Americans, and shows that in many cases that is a very dangerous thing to do for the security of the majority of American citizens.  He also states very clearly that not all muslims are terrorists, so I think he paints a very realistic and understanding picture of the situation as it is.  HIGHLY RECOMMENDED.	2004-12-30
US	27702773	R1HKHEGVNQ275T	0811104176	476670585	Goliad survivor Isaac D. Hamilton	Books	5	3	3	N	N	'DEEP IN THE HEART OF TEXAS'	\\"REMEMBER THE ALAMO, REMEMBER GOLIAD\\"-Sam Houston<br /><br />The war rallying cry for the Texas settlers at San Jacinto were those very words from Sam Houston who later served as President of the fledgling Texas State, then later as Governor of Texas.  Everyone knows about the Alamo, precious few about Goliad.<br /><br />Goliad, Texas is a small Texan town about 80 miles or so southeast of San Antonio, the city where the fated battle for the Alamo on March 6, 1836 occurred.  Weeks before that day, commanding officer, William Barret Travis had been sending letters to Col. James Walker Fannin stationed at Goliad pleading for reinforcements.  The reinforcements were never sent.<br /><br />The massacre at Goliad happened on March 27, 1836, on Palm Sunday of that year.  The week before, starting on March 19 at Coleto Creek a stone's throw away from Goliad, the Texas volunteers had surrendered to General Urrea and were held captive in the mission church at Goliad.  On March 27, the volunteers thought they were being set free to return to their homes, and then the shots began to be fired as they began to march out of the mission church...Mexico was then ruled by the Dictator Santa Anna who had disposed of the Mexican Constitutional government in 1834 when he came to power.  (Disunion actually characterized both sides; prior to the Alamo, the Provisional Governor for the \\"Texians\\" was replaced with James Robinson with Col. Fannin as the commander of their forces, and the Mexicans had their share of unsung heroes who risked their lives, acting against their dictator's decrees by aiding the Texians, the most famous in the Goliad story being that of the \\"Angel of Goliad\\", a young woman named Panchita Alavez who, in fact, saved Isaac's life as you will understand if you read this book).  In 1836, obviously, he was on the prowl trying to rid the territory of Texas of all Anglos, seemingly succeeding at the Alamo, failing miserably at San Jacinto(!).  Only four soldiers survived the Goliad massacre, one of whom was my great (x5) uncle Isaac D. Hamilton; Lester Hamilton is a distant cousin, our common ancestor was Isaac D. Hamilton's father Francis Hamilton of Courtland, Alabama.  Lester Hamilton was inspired to write about Isaac Hamilton's story from the stories handed to him from his father and from the muzzle loading, Kentucky rifle his father gave him that Isaac Hamilton had owned.  Of the four survivors, Isaac was in the worst shape, severely wounded, having been shot in his left thigh, bayoneted in his right thigh.  All four decided to leave Isaac to fend for himself since Mexicans were heavily patrolling that area of Texas, and the other three had to carry him wherever they went.  He survived, made it back to Alabama, died sometime in 1859 in Moulton, Texas, a small town half way between San Antonio and Houston, never really fully recovering from the wounds he received.  Lester Hamilton's story of Isaac is told within the context of the key events of the Texas Revolution leading up to the Battle of San Jacinto and is all based on historical records of that time.  The back cover of this book gives Mr. Hamilton's credentials as a writer/researcher; his father and grandfather worked for the newspaper, he himself was the managing editor of the local newspaper of Palestine, Texas.  All of the facts in this review can be found in the true story he tells-\\"...REMEMBER GOLIAD\\"!<br /><br />If you ever venture to see the Alamo, where 189 Texans fought to the death against a force of 1600 Mexicans, 43% of whom were killed or wounded, go to Goliad too where the State Park has preserved wonderfully the site of the massacre and the battle of Coleto Creek.  And read my cousin's book!one of whom was my great (x5) uncle Isaac D. Hamilton; Lester Hamilton is a distant cousin, our common ancestor was Isaac D. Hamilton's father Francis Hamilton of Courtland, Alabama.  Lester Hamilton was inspired to write about Isaac Hamilton's story from the stories handed to him from his father and from the muzzle loading, Kentucky rifle his father gave him that Isaac Hamilton had owned.  Of the four survivors, Isaac was in the worst shape, severely wounded, having been shot in his left thigh, bayoneted in his right thigh.  All four decided to leave Isaac to fend for himself since Mexicans were heavily patrolling that area of Texas, and the other three had to carry him wherever they went.  He survived, made it back to Alabama, died sometime in 1859 in Moulton, Texas, a small town half way between San Antonio and Houston, never really fully recovering from the wounds he received.  Lester Hamilton's story of Isaac is told within the context of the key events of the Texas Revolution leading up to the Battle of San Jacinto and is all based on historical records of that time.  The back cover of this book gives Mr. Hamilton's credentials as a writer/researcher; his father and grandfather worked for the newspaper, he himself was the managing editor of the local newspaper of Palestine, Texas.  All of the facts in this review can be found in the true story he tells-\\"...REMEMBER GOLIAD\\"!    If you ever venture to see the Alamo, where 189 Texans fought to the death against a force of 1600 Mexicans, 43% of whom were killed or wounded, go to Goliad too where the State Park has preserved wonderfully the site of the massacre and the battle of Coleto Creek.  And read my cousin's book!	2004-12-15
US	27702773	R1JRF1G5IZAALY	0440229170	571795992	Forgotten Fire	Books	5	6	6	N	N	"We must be very strong now."	Oskina Kenderian speaks to her younger brother those words as they realize that their seemingly secure world will never be the same again.  Their father was summoned from his home at night and is rumored to have been shot by Turkish gendarmes.  Some of their servants are missing...<br /><br />I think this book is a good one to start with if you know nothing about the genocide of Armenians and others in 1915.  The story is told from a young boy's perspective, that of Adam Bagdasarian's great-uncle Vahan Kenderian, who, along with his sister Oskina, were the only survivors out of their large family.  The book is simply and beautifully written, easily read in a day.  The only historical details are found in a two page foreword of the book.  The bulk of the story is Vahan's ordeal which began as a 12 year old orphan and ends three years later at the war's end in 1918 when he has finally found refuge at an orphanage run by Armenians in Constantinople.  I already know quite a bit about the plight of the Armenians from other books and movies and from Armenians themselves.  What this book offers that others don't is that it reveals the psychological impact on Vahan of seeing his loved ones, one by one, killed violently right before his eyes, and yet you wonder why this sweet christian boy doesn't lose it altogether.  You wonder why, having seen such cruelty, that he doesn't become as cruel as they.  He remembers his father's words to him when times were tough, \\"This is how steel is made.\\"  So he keeps on going and has many adventures, scares, tragedies along the way.<br /><br />Yes, this book does not explain why the Armenians would be hated so much.  Did they do something deserving their punishment, you may ask?  I think that one has to understand the culture in which they were living at that time, and understand that, as christians by faith, ironically, by others, then and now, they're considered infidels and blasphemers.  All I can say is that the Armenians I came to know, I've admired them for their quiet faith and their intense devotion to G-d which is so evident in their very, sweet natures.  My explanation for their suffering, though partly explained by where Armenia is located geographically, is that there is an unseen, spiritual dimension to it based on what we've been taught by Christ and his disciples.  His disciple Paul writes in Ephesians 6:12 that 'we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness in high places.'  With so many people, so many factions, vying for others' loyalties today, as a person of the christian faith, it is imperative that one does 'not participate in evil deeds of darkness'.  And King Solomon writes in his proverbs 'They that forsake the law praise the wicked, but such as keep the law contend with them'.  Vahan's father was a lawyer, was one of the first in his town to disappear.  These Armenians are contenders with and nonparticipants in the evil deeds they witnessed.  Adam Bagdasarian heard a recording of his great-uncle who told of his experience.  Possibly he had a key to Vahan's diary and edited his story somewhat.  Yes, the story cannot be categorized as heart-warming, yet, from all I've read about Armenians, I'm always impressed by their families, how loving, sincere, and kind they are; that's a rarity these days.to know, I've admired them for their quiet faith and their intense devotion to G-d which is so evident in their very, sweet natures.  My explanation for their suffering, though partly explained by where Armenia is located geographically, is that there is an unseen, spiritual dimension to it based on what we've been taught by Christ and his disciples.  His disciple Paul writes in Ephesians 6:12 that 'we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness in high places.'  With so many people, so many factions, vying for others' loyalties today, as a person of the christian faith, it is imperative that one does 'not participate in evil deeds of darkness'.  And King Solomon writes in his proverbs 'They that forsake the law praise the wicked, but such as keep the law contend with them'.  Vahan's father was a lawyer, was one of the first in his town to disappear.  These Armenians are contenders with and nonparticipants in the evil deeds they witnessed.  Adam Bagdasarian heard a recording of his great-uncle who told of his experience.  Possibly he had a key to Vahan's diary and edited his story somewhat.  Yes, the story cannot be categorized as heart-warming, yet, from all I've read about Armenians, I'm always impressed by their families, how loving, sincere, and kind they are; that's a rarity these days.	2004-12-11
US	27702773	RVHS74Z2HMUPA	0767902548	862941365	Black Dog of Fate: An American Son Uncovers His Armenian Past	Books	5	15	19	N	N	"AFTER LONG SILENCE"	'Speech after long silence; it is right...'-William Butler Yeats<br /><br />I have had this line from Yeats' poem in my mind as I've been reflecting on the contents of this book by Peter Balakian written in 1997.  (This book was rated one of the best books of 1997 by the LA Times, Publisher's weekly and Library Journal.)  I've read about Armenian history as I made many acquaintances of Armenians in the Boston area where I lived.  I've put off reading this book because I thought the information would not be new since I've read The Forty Days of Musa Dagh, Balakian's 2003 book The Burning Tigris, and Bat Ye'Or's book Islam and Dhimmitude.  However, I loved this book even though some of the same information is found in The Burning Tigris.  This book is different however.  The Burning Tigris is history, The Black Dog of Fate is personal history of great relevance for today.  It's a memoir of not only Balakian's life, but also his family's life during his lifetime and their past before he was born.  The book is divided into 6 sections.  The first three are devoted to his grandmother, his mother, his father.  The last 3 cover his gradual understanding of his ancestors' trials and tribulations, their ancient history.  Armenia was the first nation to embrace christianity as their official religion in the third century.  An editor of Josephus notes that an early church father and mystic, Moses Chorensis, wrote that a tribe of jews designated Bagratidae migrated to Armenia during the time of Daniel and Nebuchadnezzar, the time of the destruction of Solomon's temple in 586 B.C.  Although his family never talked about the genocide, he became curious by the very circumstances of his family.  He never knew his grandfathers.  He later comes to realize that his grandfathers suffered the common fate of many Armenian men during the Great War (WWI).  The turkish gendarmes in charge of \\"protecting\\" the Armenians during their forced march routinely shot Armenian men in the back of the head killing them instantly.  Other Armenian men attempted to disguise themselves as women to foil the Turks' bloody target practice.  When his father suggested to him that he do a school report on Armenia, he chose to write about Turkey because he could not find any information about Armenia.<br /><br />His fondest memories were of his grandmother telling him stories which began with the Armenian \\"djamangeen gar oo chagar\\", in English, there was and there wasn't.  One of her stories was an Armenian parable about a poor woman and her black dog offering to God probably modeled after Christ's parable of the rich man and Lazarus in Luke 16:19-31.  Her stories are similar to any immigrant to America from their old, peasant countries.  Peter Balakian was a second generation American; his parents were adamant that their children live as Americans, yet their Armenian culture is distinctive and is not totally erased by embracing the American one.  Many Americans should be able to relate to this in some way since nearly all of our ancestors were immigrants at some time.<br /><br />Peter Balakian is an English Professor at Colgate University, his aunt at Columbia University, both of whom also write poetry.  Being able to write about history and making it interesting is not an easy task; I was impressed by his writing in The Burning Tigris, he kept my attention the whole time.  I highly recommend this book and I highly recommend this book for book clubs in that the subject matter is very relevant to today, Armenia's history instructive in so many ways.<br /><br />'Speech after long silence; it is right...'.  The Armenian genocide happened almost 100 years ago, his grandmother one of the survivors.  He comes to realize that for her to have spoken openly about it was probably much to much painful for her.  He finds out later from his aunts that following the bombing of Pearl Harbor, her psyche was set into a tailspin.  She suffered a nervous breakdown.  That act of terrorism toomuch like the violence that she lived through.  Strangely, the Turkish government today cannot come to terms with the truth about events of 1915 and goes so far as to influence governments and Ivy League Universities by contradicting the massive documentary evidence that exists confirming the atrocities and claiming that there is another side of the story that needs to be told.  However, there is not much to discuss when you see mounds of bodies, women and innocent children, with an armed man capped with a blood-red pillbox hat standing right by.  Strange that they cannot speak the truth, one hundred years later.she lived through.  Strangely, the Turkish government today cannot come to terms with the truth about events of 1915 and goes so far as to influence governments and Ivy League Universities by contradicting the massive documentary evidence that exists confirming the atrocities and claiming that there is another side of the story that needs to be told.  However, there is not much to discuss when you see mounds of bodies, women and innocent children, with an armed man capped with a blood-red pillbox hat standing right by.  Strange that they cannot speak the truth, one hundred years later.	2004-12-07
US	27702773	R13SFE5BZV6476	0766144216	231277573	Alexander Hamilton	Books	5	3	3	N	N	"Sovereignty is the very Essence of Union"-F.S. Oliver	This biography of Alexander Hamilton is now one of my favorites.  It is written by a Briton, in actuality a Scot, with a grand view of putting into proper perspective what the American experiment achieved toward union through its founding fathers, particularly Hamilton, with an eye on what that could mean for the British empire as it stood in 1928 when this book was written.  Lacking the depth of Forrest McDonald's analysis of his accomplishments toward government particularly in the area of finance, it is just as good nonetheless, having its own merits, and confirming what I've already gathered from the few selected biographies I've read; it also confirms that I need to rewrite for the sixth or so time, my review of McDonald's faithful work.  Both biographers are enamored with Hamilton, and Oliver also confirms what Knott wrote that Hamilton's influence is much, even more appreciated by Europeans who view him as a great statesman.  Indeed, Oliver makes note in the first few pages that Talleyrand kept a copy of a portrait of Hamilton in his study until his death that had written thereon 'that he had loved Hamilton and Hamilton had loved him'.  He notes in his conclusion that he did not in this book spend time on analysis of the actual text of the constitution; his focus was, as is written in the title I have, Alexander Hamilton: an Essay on American Union.  The book is divided into 6 sections, each section has an epigram from writers such as Disraeli, Bacon, Burke, and Emerson.  The sections cover: the independance of the states, the union of the states, the Federalists, the Democrats, and the politicians.  The last page brought tears to my eyes.<br /><br />This biography, however, has been \\"placed on a musty shelf\\" at Brandeis University.  No library in the entire Boston area had it, probably because it is so dated.  Lord Tweedsmuir wrote that, \\"I firmly believed in empire as a guardian of world peace\\", a saying which totally turned my political sensibilities around.  Oliver's biography, at times I thought longwinded and laden with too many metaphors and analogies, is more philosophic and goes to great lengths in characterizing the principal characters' personalities surrounding this tale of union achieved through the Constitution.  His perceptions I think are right on and insightful which he must have seen that Hamilton's true character had not been adequately written for the record by previous biographers.  From Oliver's book too, I was surprised when I read that the Constitution, as Hamilton strove to make it, was in a form not unlike what King George III had envisioned and failed in his labors to achieve!  (And which was also the provocation for the war in the first place).  Also, one understands from Oliver's work what made the colonists view a strong central government, advocated by Hamilton and the Federalists, as being tyrannical, and that that sentiment was the main resisting force behind the opposition to ratifying the Constitution in the first place.  Disunity was the prevailing state preceding and throughout the American Revolution.  The whole States Rights' issue was a problem from the start.  Oliver does not look flatterringly upon Jefferson, and sees him as not contributing anything of lasting significance as Hamilton did other than high sounding phrases identical to those uttered by the revolutionaries of France: equality, liberty, fraternity.  He does see Burr, sympathetically, and paints a realistic picture of his personality.  He sees Hamilton as agreeing to the duel because he saw Burr as a greater threat to dissolving the union he had worked so hard to attain.  Oliver describes these three men in this way: \\"Hamilton was a type of the statesman, Jefferson of the sophist, and Burr of the politician\\".<br /><br />He sees Hamilton as always working toward an object, not concerned with popular opinion as Jefferson did, always putting the nation's interests above his own.  Oliver sees too that in achieving any union of any kind some degree of sacrifice is always required: \\"whether of blood, or labour, or dignity, or riches, is the price for a secure union, and it is impossible to escape the payment\\".  Hamilton sacrificed his riches in serving as Secretary of the Treasury, left his work for government because of financial reasons in that the pay could not support his large family!  He sacrificed his labor to achieving a unity that was tested during the bloody Civil War, which, probably, had he lived that long, might never have happened if the Jeffersonians and Jacksonians had not been successful in dismantling some of his work.  And, in the end, he sacrificed his blood.<br /><br />Burke writes: \\"If wealth is the obedient and laborious slave of virtue and of public honors, then wealth is in its place and has its use.  But if this order is changed, and honor is to be sacrificed to the conservation of riches, riches, which have neither eyes nor hands..., cannot long survive...their legitimate masters...  If we command our wealth we shall be rich and free.  If our wealth commands us, we are poor indeed.\\"d some degree of sacrifice is always required: \\"whether of blood, or labour, or dignity, or riches, is the price for a secure union, and it is impossible to escape the payment\\".  Hamilton sacrificed his riches in serving as Secretary of the Treasury, left his work for government because of financial reasons in that the pay could not support his large family!  He sacrificed his labor to achieving a unity that was tested during the bloody Civil War, which, probably, had he lived that long, might never have happened if the Jeffersonians and Jacksonians had not been successful in dismantling some of his work.  And, in the end, he sacrificed his blood.    Burke writes: \\"If wealth is the obedient and laborious slave of virtue and of public honors, then wealth is in its place and has its use.  But if this order is changed, and honor is to be sacrificed to the conservation of riches, riches, which have neither eyes nor hands..., cannot long survive...their legitimate masters...  If we command our wealth we shall be rich and free.  If our wealth commands us, we are poor indeed.\\"	2004-11-17
US	27702773	R1OLKRTX2687BT	0700611576	534549071	Alexander Hamilton and the Persistence of Myth	Books	5	12	14	N	N	"THOSE WHO STAND FOR NOTHING..."-A. Hamilton	\\"fall for anything.\\"<br /><br />Construction on the myth began years before Alexander Hamilton died on July 12, 1804.  It surely got its nurturing from the National Gazette started in 1791 by Philip Freneau, Madison's Princeton roommate, and Thomas Jefferson.  And it surely had its fires flaming during the fallout from Hamilton's Reynolds Affair which tainted his career from then on.  From the get go, Hamilton's image was tarnished.  He didn't fall for anything however.  The day he died is the same day as the battle of the Boyne where the catholic, Stuart King James II and his Jacobites were defeated by the protestant William III, of Orange.  Another Hamilton had died in a duel on November 15, 1712 in Hyde Park in London.  Although his birth was deemed illegit, Alexander Hamilton was of noble lineage; his father's family was derived from the Scottish, ducal line of Hamilton.<br /><br />Stephen F. Knott's book is not a biography; it's more of a thoughtful, unbiased tracing of pundits' and politicians' interpretation/opinion of his work in American government through the years up to the present.  It is a must read for anyone who attempts to judge Hamilton's person because the historical record is replete with misrepresentations of his life's work.  Knott's analysis is thorough; you'll understand the bias behind any biographer who studies him.  I believe one best understands Hamilton from his own writings and those scholars who studied them as Knott did.  Knott shows that Hamilton has been labelled a fascist, a monarchist, a Napoleon, a dictator, a Caesar by mostly Jeffersonians who were content with superficial studies of his life.  He also explains how Hamilton viewed popular opinion, how he saw government stood to represent the people, how government stood to protect the people from unwise, even lawless movements such as fascism and communism.  Knott also feels that we have much to learn from his thought on how our government should function.<br /><br />In Knott's Chapter 7, entitled Hail Columbia!, he quotes the historian Daniel J. Boorstin as writing, \\"we are either Jeffersonians or Hamiltonians.  In no other country has the hagiography of politics been more important\\".  However, where does Burr fit in?  He was Jefferson's Vice President at the time, good friends of the New York governor Clinton who was vehemently opposed to the Constitution.  Indeed, New York was the state most resistant to its ratification, very nearly succeeding in killing it altogether if it had not been for Alexander Hamilton and others.  And, as Knott relates, Adams, Jefferson, Washington, and the other founding fathers saw Burr as unprincipalled and unfit to govern.  As to labelling Jefferson's people as \\"the beast\\", Knott rightly traces it to a comment a Henry Adams made, years after Hamilton's death, from a comment he heard fourth hand.  I believe, and noone has made the connection, if Hamilton made that comment, \\"the beast\\" that he referred to is none other than the symbolic beast of Daniel 7 and Revelation 13 which opposes the saints and God and which exalts itself above God and above the law.  Hamilton was christian to the core, fighting the good fight, not participating in evil deeds of darkness but exposing them just as Paul exhorted the Ephesian church to do  in Ephesians 5:11.  He publicly confessed his adultery.  I believe he died a martyr and a saint.nott's Chapter 7, entitled Hail Columbia!, he quotes the historian Daniel J. Boorstin as writing, \\"we are either Jeffersonians or Hamiltonians.  In no other country has the hagiography of politics been more important\\".  However, where does Burr fit in?  He was Jefferson's Vice President at the time, good friends of the New York governor Clinton who was vehemently opposed to the Constitution.  Indeed, New York was the state most resistant to its ratification, very nearly succeeding in killing it altogether if it had not been for Alexander Hamilton and others.  And, as Knott relates, Adams, Jefferson, Washington, and the other founding fathers saw Burr as unprincipalled and unfit to govern.  As to labelling Jefferson's people as \\"the beast\\", Knott rightly traces it to a comment a Henry Adams made, years after Hamilton's death, from a comment he heard fourth hand.  I believe, and noone has made the connection, if Hamilton made that comment, \\"the beast\\" that he referred to is none other than the symbolic beast of Daniel 7 and Revelation 13 which opposes the saints and God and which exalts itself above God and above the law.  Hamilton was christian to the core, fighting the good fight, not participating in evil deeds of darkness but exposing them just as Paul exhorted the Ephesian church to do  in Ephesians 5:11.  He publicly confessed his adultery.  I believe he died a martyr and a saint.	2004-11-14
US	27702773	RCSQUEP7KWGNK	0152167110	393669298	A Guide for Grown-ups: Essential Wisdom from the Collected Works of Antoine de Saint-Exupry	Books	5	8	10	N	N	"It is always in the midst, in the epicenter..."	\\"of your troubles that you find serenity.\\"-from Wartime Writings 1939-1944<br /><br />This small, 83 page book, Guide for Grown-ups, contains selected quotes from the several books and poems that Antoine de Saint-Exupery wrote during his lifetime.  The title for this review contains the only words found on page 72.  I picked up this book the other day and this quote really spoke to me at this time in my life.  I bought several of these with the intention of giving them out as gifts.  I still have one left; the quotes are great ones to meditate on.  Antoine de Saint-Exupery, writer of The Little Prince, was an aviator who served in the French Air Corps during WWII; he presumably died in 1944 during a mission flying over the Mediterranean.  I haven't read any of his books, however, I do love this little one.	2004-11-07
US	27702773	R1WO0FF9UTXYX7	0395735297	507464947	War As I Knew It	Books	5	14	16	N	N	YOUR  FAME  SHALL  LIVE  FOREVER	Army Commander that he was, Patton, at critical times would send a letter to be read to his soldiers, commending them on their battle performance.  On August 22, 1943, in Sicily, following the successful completion of Operation Husky there, he ended his letter to the Seventh Army, with which he had raced to Messina, with this sentence: \\"Your fame shall never die.\\"  Fitting words to say to men who would see much death and destruction in the many days ahead.  So, I've tampered with his statement somewhat, but I think it's fitting to apply it to him and his soldiers, given what they accomplished during WWII, and, to this day, the statement is true.  His letters and methods are also a testimony to how well he cared for the men under him.  The book does follow the movie quite a bit, though it is not credited as such; the diary begins in North Africa with the date of October 29, 1942.  Patton encouraged all of his men to keep diaries, which this one is of the 3 U.S. operations he commanded: Operations Torch, Husky, and Overlord.  At times, I would admit that his diary was not terribly interesting when he would speak of the different divisions etc. that were being shuttled here and there.  I don't think he was writing to publish a New York Times best seller, just to document what actually transpired; also, I would think that should be a standard, wise habit to utilize in the midst of a major war.  Most of the time, I found myself admiring Patton for his abilities to command and inspire.  He took good care of his men, and I think there is ample evidence to support that.<br /><br />When they were on their way to Luxembourg and Germany, he asked his chaplain to write the \\"weather prayer\\", also in the movie, because of incessant rains and flooding which were slowing them down, causing a high incidence of trench foot and hampering efforts to provide air cover.  I stumbled on an article that that chaplain, Msgr. James H. O'Neill published on October 6, 1971 in the Review of the News about him and how he dealt with this predicament.  From what Mr. O'Neill wrote, the footnotes and other commentaries of Colonel Paul D. Harkin's in War as I Knew It, were a little off in explaining the significance of this prayer.  He writes, \\"Many conflicting and some untrue stories have been printed about General George S. Patton and the Third Army Prayer. Some have had the tinge of blasphemy and disrespect for the Deity.\\"  The weather prayer was printed as a Christmas card greeting and given to every single soldier, 250,000 men, underneath his command.  An additional \\"Training Letter\\" went out to every chaplain, every officer under his command, a total of 3200 because Patton believed in the power of prayer.  He told Mr. O'Neill, \\"Up to now, in the Third Army, God has been very good to us. We have never retreated; we have suffered no defeats, no famine, no epidemics. This is because a lot of people back home are praying for us. We were lucky in Africa, in Sicily, and in Italy. Simply because people prayed. But we have to pray for ourselves, too. A good soldier is not made merely by making him think and work. There is something in every soldier that goes deeper than thinking or working--it's his \\"guts.\\" It is something that he has built in there: it is a world of truth and power that is higher than himself. Great living is not all output of thought and work. A man has to have intake as well. I don't know what you call it, but I call it Religion, Prayer, or God.  But the time is now to intensify our faith in prayer, not alone with ourselves, but with every believing man, Protestant, Catholic, Jew, or Christian in the ranks of the Third United States Army. \\"Those who pray do more for the world than those who fight; and if the world goes from bad to worse, it is because there are more battles than prayers. 'Hands lifted up,' said Bosuet, 'smash more battalions than hands that strike.' \\"  His chaplain reveals in his article how the prayers were answered: \\"On the 19th of December, the Third Army turned from East to North to meet the attack. As General Patton rushed his divisions north from the Saar Valley to the relief of the beleaguered Bastogne, the prayer was answered. On December 20, to the consternation of the Germans and the delight of the American forecasters who were equally surprised at the turn-about-the rains and the fogs ceased. For the better part of a week came bright clear skies and perfect flying weather.  General Patton prayed for fair weather for Battle. He got it...It was late in January of 1945 when I saw the Army Commander again. This was in the city of Luxembourg. He stood directly in front of me, smiled: \\"Well, Padre, our prayers worked. I knew they would.\\" Then he cracked me on the side of my steel helmet with his riding crop. That was his way of saying, \\"Well done.\\"\\"  Patton had socks sent to all the soldiers of the (now) Third army to deal with the trenchfoot problem.  He loved his men and his men loved him.<br /><br />From his diary, it seems that a large part of their success was how well the commanding generals worked so well together and were of the same mind.  Patton felt that delays of any sort in the midst of battle were sure roads to defeat and death to be avoided at all costs.  After every campaign in his diary, he shows the tallies of losses to the allies vs. the enemy.  What he doesn't show, and what cannot be calculated, is the numbers of lives that were saved, soldiers and civilians, because of his swift methods.  Many times he ponders, however, that if some orders had not been questioned, not only would more U.S. soldiers' lives have been lost, but we might have lost the war.  Hmm.<br /><br />General G. S. Patton, Jr., I give you FIVE STARS, FIVE STARS!!!f December, the Third Army turned from East to North to meet the attack. As General Patton rushed his divisions north from the Saar Valley to the relief of the beleaguered Bastogne, the prayer was answered. On December 20, to the consternation of the Germans and the delight of the American forecasters who were equally surprised at the turn-about-the rains and the fogs ceased. For the better part of a week came bright clear skies and perfect flying weather.  General Patton prayed for fair weather for Battle. He got it...It was late in January of 1945 when I saw the Army Commander again. This was in the city of Luxembourg. He stood directly in front of me, smiled: \\"Well, Padre, our prayers worked. I knew they would.\\" Then he cracked me on the side of my steel helmet with his riding crop. That was his way of saying, \\"Well done.\\"\\"  Patton had socks sent to all the soldiers of the (now) Third army to deal with the trenchfoot problem.  He loved his men and his men loved him.      From his diary, it seems that a large part of their success was how well the commanding generals worked so well together and were of the same mind.  Patton felt that delays of any sort in the midst of battle were sure roads to defeat and death to be avoided at all costs.  After every campaign in his diary, he shows the tallies of losses to the allies vs. the enemy.  What he doesn't show, and what cannot be calculated, is the numbers of lives that were saved, soldiers and civilians, because of his swift methods.  Many times he ponders, however, that if some orders had not been questioned, not only would more U.S. soldiers' lives have been lost, but we might have lost the war.  Hmm.      General G. S. Patton, Jr., I give you FIVE STARS, FIVE STARS!!!	2004-11-04
US	27702773	R2LQ9HHOEPA99U	0802428657	471001662	Future Hope: A Jewish Christian Look at the End of the World	Books	4	7	11	N	N	SUN, STAND THOU STILL-Joshua 10:12,13	Then spake Joshua to the LORD in the day when the LORD delivered up the Amorites before the children of Israel, and he said in the sight of Israel, \\"Sun, stand thou still upon Gibeon; and thou, Moon, in the valley of Ajalon\\".  So the sun stood still, and the moon stopped, till the nation avenged itself on its enemies, as it is written in the Book of Jashar.  The sun stopped in the middle of the sky and delayed going down about a full day.<br /><br />This supernatural event happened when the rag tag band of Israelites led by Joshua entered the promised land to fight the pagan tribes which lived in Israel more than a thousand years before Christ.  Before Christ's second coming, christians like myself believe that there will be signs in the heavens heralding His coming, and ultimately upon His return He will appear in the clouds, just as He did when He ascended into heaven to sit at the right hand of G-d in Acts 1:11.  The day of the Lord (from Joel 2:2, 31) will be 'a day of darkness and gloom, a day of clouds and of thick darkness! Like blackness there is spread upon the mountains a great people and powerful; their like has never been from of old, nor will be again after...The sun shall be turned into darkness, and the moon into blood, before the great and terrible day of the LORD come.  Indeed, when I read Revelation, especially, I feel like the passover story, the ten plagues G-d sent to punish the Egyptians, is being replayed.  G-d is making His interventions on behalf of His people in real time, in real history repeat episodes.<br /><br />So much doom and gloom in the prophets and apocalyptic books like Daniel, Revelation and Zechariah.  Yet, there is reason to hope for those who put their trust in this G-d who has ordered the heavens and who will subject all creation to Him.  Although today, it doesn't seem that way so many times, yet 'all creation hangs on your Word' as Mercyme sings; G-d is sovereign and He is in control, though surely His Spirit is grieved by the evils that seem to be escalating all over the world.  That is what this Jews for Jesus publication is all about:to offer hope and to instruct and forewarn people about what the bible teaches about this 'time of trouble'.  It's a good introduction to end times prophecies, and is meant to also introduce people to G-d's saving spirit who will protect us, save us during this 'time of trouble' (much in the same way the blood of the lamb protected the Israelites from the angel of death which killed the firstborn sons of the Egyptians).  All you have to do is pray to Jesus, believing that He is the One who died for our sins, ask Him to pour out His spirit on you, and He will.  It's that simple.  I don't believe you need to join a congregation, pay money etc.; I do think it's critical to read scripture and pray and never doubt that He will fail you in any way, even in the darkest of times.  He promises us that He will be with us to the end of times.<br /><br />There are some nice diagrams in the back though they're a bit simplistic, yet for someone totally oblivious to this subject, I'd think it might help anyone understand.  My favorite is the one in Appendix 2 of the seventy weeks in Daniel 9:24-27 predicting Christ's crucifixion and death and the final week of seven years which will be the Great Tribulation.  In the middle of that week, the two lampstands and two olive trees (in Zechariah 4:14) will be prophesying, giving their testimony in Revelation 11.  The key chapters I think which signal that this tribulation is ongoing are Revelation 11-13.  And, it seems there is a contest going on much in the same way as that that went on against Elijah on mount Carmel in I Kings 18.  In Rev. 11-And I will give power to my two witnesses, and they will prophesy for 1,260 days, clothed in sackcloth.  These are the two olive trees and the two lampstands that stand before the Lord of the earth.  If anyone tries to harm them, fire comes from their mouths and devours their enemies. This is how anyone who wants to harm them must die.  These men have power to shut up the sky so that it will not rain during the time they are prophesying; and they have power to turn the waters into blood and to strike the earth with every kind of plague as often as they want.  The beast of Rev. 13 perform(s) great and miraculous signs, even causing fire to come down from heaven to earth in full view of men.  Because of the signs he was given power to do on behalf of the first beast, he deceived the inhabitants of the earth. He ordered them to set up an image in honor of the beast who was wounded by the sword and yet lived.  (I don't believe we are in the great tribulation period yet, not yet, but I do take these particular prophecies literally in terms of the number of days, e.g. the 1260 days, 3 and one half years-the time that it didn't rain on the earth during Elijah's prophesying against Ahab and Jezebel).<br /><br />There is much speculation on the rapture (when believers will be joined with Christ in the air found in I Thessalonians 4:16-18), when it will happen etc., and many books have been written like the Left Behind series which are fictional books based on scripture; I believe, however, that in actuality they're too speculative, since prophecy by its very nature is very sketchy.  I purposefully don't read them for that very reason, though many people have recommended that I should.  Will G-d's people be spared this great tribulation or will they suffer???  We know in the end, we will be with G-d, in heaven, and will witness/participate in the beginning of the messianic kingdom, and will see death finally 'swallowed up in victory'.  In this book, David Brickner only briefly explains the different hypotheses about the rapture.<br /><br />Most importantly to me are prophecies about apostasy among Christ's followers and this false christ.  From Mark 13:22, Christ says, \\"For false Christs and false prophets shall rise, and shall shew signs and wonders, to seduce, if it were possible, even the elect.\\"  From 2 Thessalonians 2:8-12, about the false christ's appearance: And then shall that Wicked be revealed, whom the Lord shall consume with the spirit of His mouth, and shall destroy with the brightness of His coming: Even him, whose coming is after the working of Satan with all power and signs and lying wonders,And with all deceivableness of unrighteousness in them that perish; because they received not the love of the truth, that they might be saved.  And for this cause G-d shall send them strong delusion, that they should believe a lie: That they all might be damned who believed not the truth, but took pleasure in unrighteousness.  Also from Daniel, the false christ will put down three kings, will throw truth to the ground, yet by no human hand he will be destroyed.  (Probably much in the same way Herod died in Acts 12, or even as Antiochus Epiphanes died insane after exerting all his energies in trying to stamp out all vestiges of jewish culture.)  He will THINK to change the times and the law.  He will wear out the saints.  Several of my bible study teachers have said that satan knows scripture too, yet, from Daniel, G-d has the upper hand and as the psalmist says in Psalm 31:15 'My times are in Thy hand.\\"<br /><br />Yet there is hope from Daniel 12:1: And at that time shall Michael stand up, the great prince which standeth for the children of thy people: and there shall be a time of trouble, such as never was since there was a nation even to that same time: and at that time thy people (Israel) shall be delivered, every one that shall be found written in the book.who wants to harm them must die.  These men have power to shut up the sky so that it will not rain during the time they are prophesying; and they have power to turn the waters into blood and to strike the earth with every kind of plague as often as they want.  The beast of Rev. 13 perform(s) great and miraculous signs, even causing fire to come down from heaven to earth in full view of men.  Because of the signs he was given power to do on behalf of the first beast, he deceived the inhabitants of the earth. He ordered them to set up an image in honor of the beast who was wounded by the sword and yet lived.  (I don't believe we are in the great tribulation period yet, not yet, but I do take these particular prophecies literally in terms of the number of days, e.g. the 1260 days, 3 and one half years-the time that it didn't rain on the earth during Elijah's prophesying against Ahab and Jezebel).    There is much speculation on the rapture (when believers will be joined with Christ in the air found in I Thessalonians 4:16-18), when it will happen etc., and many books have been written like the Left Behind series which are fictional books based on scripture; I believe, however, that in actuality they're too speculative, since prophecy by its very nature is very sketchy.  I purposefully don't read them for that very reason, though many people have recommended that I should.  Will G-d's people be spared this great tribulation or will they suffer???  We know in the end, we will be with G-d, in heaven, and will witness/participate in the beginning of the messianic kingdom, and will see death finally 'swallowed up in victory'.  In this book, David Brickner only briefly explains the different hypotheses about the rapture.     Most importantly to me are prophecies about apostasy among Christ's followers and this false christ.  From Mark 13:22, Christ says, \\"For false Christs and false prophets shall rise, and shall shew signs and wonders, to seduce, if it were possible, eventhe elect.\\"  From 2 Thessalonians 2:8-12, about the false christ's appearance: And then shall that Wicked be revealed, whom the Lord shall consume with the spirit of His mouth, and shall destroy with the brightness of His coming: Even him, whose coming is after the working of Satan with all power and signs and lying wonders,And with all deceivableness of unrighteousness in them that perish; because they received not the love of the truth, that they might be saved.  And for this cause G-d shall send them strong delusion, that they should believe a lie: That they all might be damned who believed not the truth, but took pleasure in unrighteousness.  Also from Daniel, the false christ will put down three kings, will throw truth to the ground, yet by no human hand he will be destroyed.  (Probably much in the same way Herod died in Acts 12, or even as Antiochus Epiphanes died insane after exerting all his energies in trying to stamp out all vestiges of jewish culture.)  He will THINK to change the times and the law.  He will wear out the saints.  Several of my bible study teachers have said that satan knows scripture too, yet, from Daniel, G-d has the upper hand and as the psalmist says in Psalm 31:15 'My times are in Thy hand.\\"    Yet there is hope from Daniel 12:1: And at that time shall Michael stand up, the great prince which standeth for the children of thy people: and there shall be a time of trouble, such as never was since there was a nation even to that same time: and at that time thy people (Israel) shall be delivered, every one that shall be found written in the book.	2004-10-11
US	27702773	R3LOQBMVY8W7G9	0679744452	260717055	Understanding the Dead Sea Scrolls: A Reader From the Biblical Archaeology Review	Books	5	7	8	N	N	"A CLOAK AND DAGGER AFFAIR"-Yigael Yadin	Yigael Yadin was describing the world of dead sea scroll scholarship which began in 1947 when the first scrolls were discovered by a Bedouin boy herding his animals in the Judean hills.  The scrolls were then shuttled to the antiquities market; sacred, holy words were now up for sale, and not at dime store prices!  The \\"cloak and dagger affair\\" then began.  (The temple scroll was obtained for $105,000 by the Israeli's after the six day war of 1967).  Years later, many other caves were found containing ancient scrolls.  Hershel Shanks, in his overview, states that, in this book, the articles discuss the dead sea scrolls from 11 caves at and around Qumran.  There are many aspects to these finds: the political dimension, the religious one, the preservation of, the new data itself, and differing opinions of biblical scholars.  Hershel Shanks divides the 22 chapters of this book into 9 sections: the find, where they came from, the temple scroll, the dead sea scrolls and the bible, the dead sea scrolls and christianity, the dead sea scrolls and rabbinic judaism, the copper scroll, reconstructing the scrolls, and controversy and the scrolls.<br /><br />I read this four years ago, in preparation for a pilgrimage to Israel, where we were to see Masada and the Dead Sea manuscripts which are now housed at the Shrine of the Book which is a part of the Israel Museum.  I chose this one from many others at my local library; it looked like a good introduction to someone like me with little knowledge of this aspect of biblical scholarship.  I was pleased with the contents.  Hershel Shanks wrote 5 of the 22 chapters, the rest written by other scholars in this field.  Each chapter is prefaced with a brief summary of the contents by the editor.  (I admire Hershel Shanks' scientific approach to considering all of the evidence and hypotheses that emerge from the analyses of the many manuscripts; he never generalizes, exercizes great care in making any statement, very fair in his analyses, perfect traits for an editor).  The book is comprehensive and captures the aura of this \\"cloak and dagger business\\".t traits for an editor).  The book is comprehensive and captures the aura of this \\"cloak and dagger business\\".	2004-10-08
US	27702773	R3UOM60GX2R7Y4	1576832899	163199009	The Message: The Bible in Contemporary Language	Books	4	6	15	N	N	CLEAR MY NAME, G-D; Psalm 43	Stick up for me against these loveless, immoral people.<br /><br />Get me out of here, away from these lying degenerates.<br /><br />I counted on You G-D.  Why did You walk out on me?<br /><br />Why am I pacing the floor, wringing my hands over these outrageous people?<br /><br />Give me Your lantern and compass, give me a map, so I can find my way to the sacred mountain, to the place of Your presence.<br /><br />So that's The Message's message from Psalm 43, it sounds much different than my King James bible.  However, the message is the same.  I heard a passage read from The Message at a Sunday School class from one of the New Testament letters we had just finished discussing; it was read to us as a closing prayer.  I had to admit that the essence of what we read was beautifully expressed, and in a way that was more palatable, easier to remember.  I do find the simplicity appealing.  Eugene Petersen is a Pastor, Professor, and poet so reading the bible is a real treat.  I'm not so sure, however, I would purchase this for myself because of the loose translation and also because of the fact that Christ's words are not in red, and there are no maps.  It's just a bare bones bible.  But I do love the message!	2004-10-06
US	27702773	R3E4D0WLRYL9A7	0385073097	688763401	The Greek Treasure	Books	5	13	13	N	N	"Achilles of the nimble feet looked at him grimly..."	\\"and replied: 'Hector, you must be mad to talk to me about a pact. Lions do not come to terms with men, nor does the wolf see eye to eye with the lamb-they are ENEMIES TO THE END. It is the same with you and me. Friendship between us is impossible, and there will be no truce of any kind till one of us has fallen and glutted the stubborn god of battles with his blood. So summon any courage you may have.<br /><br />THIS is the time to show your spearmanship and daring.\\"-From Homer's Iliad<br /><br />Henry Schliemann, like Alexander the Great, knew the Iliad by heart, the ancient story of the Trojan War immortalized by Homer. He was convinced he knew he could find the city thus proving its historicity. The Greek academics didn't believe him, he didn't believe them. To find Troy was his dream of a lifetime. He manages to marry a young Greek girl, 20 years or so younger than himself, and soon thereafter, their lifetime of digging begins.<br /><br />I loved this book. In reading this historical novel of Irving Stone, you'll learn a little about modern (1900) and ancient Greek culture. I remember getting a little bored reading the last half of it, but digs are usually that way most times until you unearth something spectacular. The most interesting point to me was in a note of Stone's at the end, explaining that the treasure of Priam, kept in the Berlin Museum, disappeared somehow when the Russians marched toward Berlin late in WWII. Hmm.	2004-10-04
US	27702773	R2FZME51N6V0Z9	0913573868	580137710	The Works of Josephus: Complete and Unabridged, New Updated Edition	Books	5	23	26	N	N	"Of the Sacerdotal Dignity"-Josephus	That statement is found in Josephus' brief autobiography which prefaces, in this edition, both his Antiquities of the Jews and his Wars of the Jews.  He was of noble birth, of the priestly, levitical class.  Whiston's translation from the Greek, first appeared in English in 1737.  I got my copy from a christian bookstore as I had heard many stories about Josephus from friends, people from my church, and I was finally sold on Josephus when our Israeli guide told several stories from Josephus at various sites when I toured Israel with my church in 2000.  His greatest claim to fame for christianity is that he wrote a few sentences about Christ which is our only written record that Jesus Christ was a historical person.  (Interesting, shows how superior the Romans were in censorship and surveillance; ever wonder why the Apostle Paul always designated the persons bearing his letters to the churches?)  He witnessed and wrote about the destruction of the jews' second temple, he fought the Romans in Galilee, he surrendered to Vespasian who later became Emperor of Rome.  Some jews probably look at him as a traitor, since he switched sides as he did.  He claims that he had had some sort of directive from G-d to do so, and how fortuitous that was, looking back, because he wrote of significant historical events that are found nowhere else in written records.	2004-09-28
US	27702773	R2G46IHYSU7QJ4	0241017211	954517142	Zealots of Masada	Books	5	3	5	N	N	THESE WERE THE VERY ENEMIES OF G-D	THE ROMANS<br /><br />They had everything, the best scholars, the best military, the best judicial system and look at all the loot they got from terrorizing neighborhoods, killing people so efficiently.<br /><br />I got this book at Masada in 2000, almost exactly four years ago when I went with a church group to Israel.  I had heard the story before, a very gory one at that, about how a group of jewish zealots fended off a Roman legion, then took their own lives.  I really was not that interested in going there.  However, I fell in love with the judean desert, the place where David fled when he was on the run from his father-in-law, King Saul, Israel's first king, who wanted David dead.  Here also, John the Baptist preached, Jesus was baptized and tempted, the essenes gathered and studied, where, somehow, the dead sea scrolls were amassed at Qumran, where Moses' gaze hovered over a land he would never set foot on.  After going to Masada and hearing the guides' narration of the events that transpired here, I had to admit I was so glad it was on our itinerary.  And then I purchased this book and read it when I got back to the U.S.<br /><br />The book tells both the story of Masada, the zealots' conflict with the Romans as told by Josephus and the story of Yigael Yadin, archaeologist, professor, Israeli army veteran who took to task the effort to find proofs that Josephus' story was true in 1965.  That task took as much planning probably as that of the Roman army for where Masada is, is in the middle of blessed nowhere south of the Dead Sea.  Some of their finds were invaluable and enabled other researchers to more accurately date their sites.<br /><br />What was most memorable to me about Masada was the many contrasts between the zealots and the Romans on the one hand, and that between the zealots and Herod who stocked that bastion of his with food and water as a retreat in case people finally figured out how rotten he was.  It would seem like a duel was set at Masada, between Rome, represented by the titled General Flavius Silva and Jerusalem, represented by Eliezar ben Ya'ir.  However, if you have G_d on your side, as the frazzled, rag tag band of orthodox jews did, there is no contest to speak of.  They will conquer us, but G-D WILL DESTROY THEM.  Masada has an amazing story to tell.the titled General Flavius Silva and Jerusalem, represented by Eliezar ben Ya'ir.  However, if you have G_d on your side, as the frazzled, rag tag band of orthodox jews did, there is no contest to speak of.  They will conquer us, but G-D WILL DESTROY THEM.  Masada has an amazing story to tell.	2004-09-28
US	27702773	RIXRV2J5OUAIA	1557480591	292882269	My Utmost for His Highest	Books	4	5	6	N	N	INTERCESSION	The copy I have, I received as a gift from my church, and actually I had been wanting one of my own.  I used it religiously every day for a couple of years, day by day, along with my daily bible readings.  This devotional certainly helps keep one focussed on things that really matter to God, things spiritual, eternal.  The entry that really spoke to me the most was the one of March 31, a day significant to me in that it was the day my great grandmother Molly Hamilton Summers died.  She was, to me, the epitome of true christian virtues.  No one can even think of anything bad to say about her.  She never cursed, never said bad things about anyone, never manipulated, never deceived.  She is still a legend in our family which is a little strange because she didn't really do anything spectacular or significant in worldy terms.  She died a decade and a half before I was born.  I actually bought that copy from the christian bookstore that I was browsing in so moved by what I'd read.<br /><br />Funny how the Spirit works, I guess at the time I was feeling judged, incompetent in my prayer life, and in my day to day walk with Christ.  That entry has the heading Heedfulness vs. Hypocrisy in Ourselves, the verse from the bible, I John 5:16.  Oswald Chambers writes \\"If we are not heedful of the way the Spirit of God works in us, we will become spiritual hypocrites...He reveals things so that we may take the burden of these souls before Him and form the mind of Christ about them...It is...that we rouse ourselves until God is able to convey His mind to us about the one for whom we intercede.\\"  Important stuff, because if we cannot do that we're not really reflecting the crucified Christ who died for all sin and for all time, and maybe one is not born of the Spirit of God if we cannot pray that way.<br /><br />Oswald Chambers died of appendicitis in 1917 in Egypt serving Australian and New Zealand troops during WWI.  And as his widow notes in a short foreword in my copy, these entries were compiled from various lectures and talks he gave several years before he died.ies were compiled from various lectures and talks he gave several years before he died.	2004-09-24
US	27702773	R3RPQB25LL60EA	031021923X	203019113	The Jesus I Never Knew	Books	4	5	7	N	N	"Human History Hung in the Balance"-Philip Yancey	That statement is found in the fourth chapter entitled Temptation: Showdown in the Desert.<br /><br />I read this book many years ago, and this chapter has stuck in my mind all those years.  I loved how Yancey treats those few verses found in the gospels about Christ's temptation in the Judean desert which is just south of Jerusalem.  He mentions that John Milton, in a sequel to Paradise Lost, saw the temptation rather than the crucifixion as Christ's most pivotal moment.  As a christian myself, I think it is extremely critical to understand G_d's nature as opposed to satan's because it is written in 2 Corinthians 11:14no wonder, for even satan disguises himself as an angel of light.The differences between satan and G_d are seen most clearly in the brief exchanges that occur between them found in Matthew 4:3-11, Mark 1:13, Luke 4:1-13.  It's something to think about; Christ, the Creator of all created, would turn down fame (although He is pretty famous today), would turn down power, would turn down showmanship.  Yancey phrases Christ's actions this way, borrowing Dostoyevsky's words from the Grand Inquisitor in Brothers Karamazov, He turned down \\"miracle, mystery, and authority.\\"<br /><br />And anyway, I've often reflected, why should G_d work miracles in front of people who won't believe, even if they are razzled and dazzled???<br /><br />I personally prefer this book over What's So Amazing About Grace, maybe because I've heard so much on the subject of grace, that not much is new to me.  Also, it's always a good exercise to reflect on who Jesus really is, to reflect on His teachings, His life.	2004-09-04
US	27702773	R39QVNKPHZYJV6	0310951410	243093313	Amplified Bible	Books	4	18	26	N	N	THEY HAVE REBELLED AGAINST ME	Isaiah 1<br />  2Hear, O heavens, and give ear, O earth! For the Lord has spoken: I have nourished and brought up sons and have made them great and exalted, but they have rebelled against Me and broken away from Me.  Amplified version<br /><br />The amplified version came out in 1965 and is based on the American Standard Version which came out in 1901 and is considered to be the most literal translation of the original Hebrew and Greek texts.  My least favorite translation is the NIV; I would never pay money for that!  For a version that came out in 1978, it falls way short of translating accurately from the original Hebrew.  However, many people believe it is the best one out there, many people carry this translation into church with them.  Don't be deceived!  The amplified bible, as you can see from the excerpts I chose, provides several additional words so that the many connotations of the original Hebrew or Greek is not lost.  That is an important issue.  A visiting pastor to my church, said in a sermon, that there is a false gospel of prosperity that seems to have grabbed multitudes of people.  When Paul or Peter or James or Jesus talk of prosperity, they do not mean exclusively outward manifestations of it as in your bank account balance, numbers of children you've nourished, or promotions you've gotten.  Spiritual prosperity is much different and really eternal.  Knowing that there is another life besides this one that lasts forever, knowing that G_d knows all your sins, but won't waste His time throwing them in your face all of the time, knowing, that despite others maliciously watching every move you make, G_d is too and He is greater, much, much greater than they, having that knowledge is better than the fattest bank account!!!<br /><br />Galatians 1<br />  9As we said before, so I now say again: If anyone is preaching to you a gospel different from or contrary to that which you received [from us], let him be accursed (anathema, devoted to destruction, doomed to eternal punishment)!<br /><br />My only complaint about this bible is that it is not a red letter edition.  I've been groomed on that feature; the bibles I've used most often, have Christ's words in red.  Also, I would never purchase a soft cover bible; you need to read it, it needs to be read often; you want a bible that has a long material life!ment)!     My only complaint about this bible is that it is not a red letter edition.  I've been groomed on that feature; the bibles I've used most often, have Christ's words in red.  Also, I would never purchase a soft cover bible; you need to read it, it needs to be read often; you want a bible that has a long material life!	2004-09-03
US	27702773	RAE5794S6R6UR	1400060303	956247749	Why Courage Matters: The Way to a Braver Life	Books	5	10	10	N	N	"Love Makes Courage Necessary"-John McCain	McCain makes me laugh, he makes me cry.  In between McCain's explanations of what defines courage and what doesn't, he provides examples of people the world over who have demonstrated extraordinary acts of courage that will move you to tears.  He made me laugh when he writes of how most parents usually try to teach their children to be brave as when they fall off a bicycle or horse.  \\"We're teaching them physical skills.  We're teaching them to be strong...We're building their confidence and giving them hope...These are elements of courage, but not the whole virtue...They might grow up and climb mountains or become risk-taking entrepreneurs.  But is that all we think courage is?  Without other instruction, they could turn out to be Enron executives.(!)  They had daring, but they lacked ethics.  They lacked a sense of honor, and they lacked courage.\\"<br /><br />I brought this book with me on a recent trip to bear country where I intended to read it in between hikes in the Sierras.  I thought it would come in handy, for he writes, \\"Face the experience with quiet assurance or with a look that reflects stark terror\\", good advice when faced with a 300 pound bear!  I spent my time reading mountaineering 101 books instead and this one got shelved for the time being (no bears in sight).<br /><br />In the closing chapter, he offers advice to those who witnessed events in NYC who are still traumatized, suffering from anxieties.  \\"Build your courage...We have something worth being brave for: liberty and justice.  Feel yourself part of that grand enterprise, empowered by it, and dread the emptiness of a life that is unattached to noble purpose.\\"  \\"We're all afraid of something...Don't let the sensation of fear convince you that you're too weak to have courage.  Fear is the opportunity for courage, not proof of cowardice.\\"<br /><br />Great practical advice, better stuff than that found in medicine bottles.	2004-08-12
US	27702773	RHH1RNNRKBU85	0939666758	265507365	The Wild Muir: Twenty-Two of John Muir's Greatest Adventures	Books	5	18	20	N	N	Twenty-two of Muir's best scootcher's!	Lee Stetson, an actor who regularly has played Muir in Yosemite, compiled these 22 tales in this very readable, short book which I obtained in Tuolumne meadows visitor center in Yosemite National Forest. The Wild Muir has been on my Amazon wish list for a long time, so glad I bought my copy in the heart of Muir Territory, where one cannot escape some mention of his name in the many trails and areas he regularly trekked through. What a nice backyard, I constantly repeated to myself while hiking several days at Tuolumne! Every twist and turn of the trails revealed a new, pristine vista that the best panoramic camera could not capture. I felt like I needed a 360 degree camera to capture the beauty of this place, but I don't think anybody makes those these days! Muir expressed these same feelings when he writes: &quot;Pursuing my lonely way down the valley, I turned again and again to gaze on the glorious picture, throwing up my arms to inclose it as in a frame. After long ages of growth in the darkness beneath the glaciers, through sunshine and storms, it seemed now to be ready and waiting for the elected artist, like yellow wheat for the reaper; and I could not help wishing that I were that artist. I had to be content, however, to take it into my soul.&quot;<br /><br /> It was here in Tuolumne and Yosemite that Muir would gather those who shared his desire to preserve this wilderness area like Theodore Roosevelt and others, and thankfully, they did just that. The waters still as clear as crystal, teeming still with trout.<br /><br /> Muir's &quot;scootchers&quot; began as a child in Dunbar, Scotland, his mountaineering prowess seemingly inbred, though his brother David, seems not to have shared the same level of fearfulness. In the first chapter, Muir writes of his home, &quot;One of our best playgrounds was the famous Dunbar Castle, to which King Edward fled after his defeat at Bannockburn...The roof of our house, as well as the crags and walls of the old castle, offered fine mountaineering exercise.&quot; Of course, Muir would drag his brother David out of their room onto the roof after their mother put them to bed, telling them to &quot;sleep like gude bairns&quot;. The first &quot;scootcher&quot; (adventure/daring) told in this book. In the same chapter, he writes that a servant girl would tell them about hell where bad people would go to live eternally. Muir exclaimed indomitably that &quot;I could climb out of it. I imagined it was only a sooty pit with stone walls like those of the castle, and I felt sure there must be chunks and cracks in the masonry for fingers and toes.&quot;!<br /><br /> The other twenty-one scootchers contain similar tales of Muir rescuing others who attempted to follow his paths as well as his own hair-raising scootchers sliding down glaciers, surviving powerful wind storms and earthquakes in Yosemite and elsewhere.<br /><br /> It was a real treat to read these adventures in those wild, Muir woods of the Sierras.e, offered fine mountaineering exercise.&quot; Of course, Muir would drag his brother David out of their room onto the roof after their mother put them to bed, telling them to &quot;sleep like gude bairns&quot;. The first &quot;scootcher&quot; (adventure/daring) told in this book. In the same chapter, he writes that a servant girl would tell them about hell where bad people would go to live eternally. Muir exclaimed indomitably that &quot;I could climb out of it. I imagined it was only a sooty pit with stone walls like those of the castle, and I felt sure there must be chunks and cracks in the masonry for fingers and toes.&quot;! <br />  <br /> The other twenty-one scootchers contain similar tales of Muir rescuing others who attempted to follow his paths as well as his own hair-raising scootchers sliding down glaciers, surviving powerful wind storms and earthquakes in Yosemite and elsewhere.  <br />  <br /> It was a real treat to read these adventures in those wild, Muir woods of the Sierras.	2004-07-31
US	27702773	R1UAUF2W34JI81	0802841805	123957278	The Scandal of the Evangelical Mind	Books	5	61	65	N	N	&quot;The scandal of the evangelical mind is...&quot;	&quot;that there is not much of an evangelical mind.&quot;  That is the first sentence of this book by Mark Noll who is an evangelical himself, professor at Wheaton College, alma mater of Billy and Ruth Bell Graham.<br />So what's the problem, Mark Noll asks?  Doesn't Christ command us to love Him with all our mind, and how have evangelicals in this country failed in this respect?  That's the aim of Noll in this book to show the historical reasons for that failure but also to show that there is hope and signs that some evangelicals are back on the right track.  I think his main point is that research is key to developing the mind, that Christians should venture to explore all &quot;topics under the sun&quot; as Solomon says, and that we can do so in a way that glorifies God without compromising basic Christian beliefs.<br />This author was recommended to me and others from the evangelical church I attend.  I loved this book; it's one of the more substantive Jesus books that are out there.  It's well-researched and thought provoking.  Evangelicalism is new to me, although maybe I was one before I knew what the word meant!  In the first chapter, evangelicalism is described as having &quot;the key ingredients of: conversionism/new birth, biblicism/the bible as ultimate religious authority, activism/sharing your faith, crucicentrism/significance of Christ's saving work on the cross.&quot;  Fundamentalism is not necessarily evangelicalism.<br />Here are some excerpts I loved:<br />&quot;In each of these instances (pro-life/abortion, creationism/creation science/evolution debates), the point at issue for a  historian of the intellectual life is not whether the new ideas were right or wrong. The point is that a combination of self-confident biblicism and populist political mobilization greatly restricted, if it did not altogether shut down, promising lines of scientific debate.  In such controversies, heat almost entirely replaced the light that might otherwise have been generated to correct, expand, refine, redirect, or otherwise build upon the commendable intelligence of the proposals.&quot;<br />I totally love his last chapter, here are his last two sentences: &quot;The effort to think like a Christian is rather an effort to take seriously the sovereignty of God over the world He created, the lordship of Christ over the world he died to redeem, and the power of the Holy Spirit over the world He sustains each and every moment.  From this perspective the search for a mind that truly thinks like a Christian takes on ultimate significance, because the search for a Christian mind is not, in the end, a search for a mind but a search for God.&quot;enerated to correct, expand, refine, redirect, or otherwise build upon the commendable intelligence of the proposals.&quot;<br />I totally love his last chapter, here are his last two sentences: &quot;The effort to think like a Christian is rather an effort to take seriously the sovereignty of God over the world He created, the lordship of Christ over the world he died to redeem, and the power of the Holy Spirit over the world He sustains each and every moment.  From this perspective the search for a mind that truly thinks like a Christian takes on ultimate significance, because the search for a Christian mind is not, in the end, a search for a mind but a search for God.&quot;	2004-07-12
US	27702773	R1V7Z5EIF0DQUA	0838639437	552648484	Islam and Dhimmitude: Where Civilizations Collide	Books	5	51	56	N	N	"Worse than the physical tragedy..."-Colonel Barakat	\\"was the assassination of the truth.\\"  Colonel Barakat was speaking before the U.S. Foreign Relations Committee about conditions of christian Lebanese refugees in Israel.  Those refugees had fought against pro-Syrian islamist forces and the anti-Israeli group Hizbollah; they had been victims of jihad, islamic wars in South Lebanon, and had been ignored, abandoned by the international community.  This story is found in the last chapter of this book.<br /><br />I think Isaiah agrees with Colonel Barakat when he says in Isaiah 59:14-15:<br /><br />Justice is turned back,<br />  And righteousness stands afar off;<br />  For truth has fallen in the public squares,<br />  And uprightness cannot enter.<br /><br />Yes, truth is lacking;<br />  And he who departs from evil makes himself a prey.<br />  Now the LORD saw,<br />  And it was displeasing in His sight that there<br />  was no justice.<br /><br />In talking about this book, I'm always asked \\"what is dhimmitude\\", and I still don't have a good answer.  Bat Ye'Or defines it in her introduction as \\"a domain which embraces the social, political, and religious relations of different human groups\\", and \\"dhimmitude embraces the condition of the dhimmi (non-muslim \\"protected\\" by islamic law).  What helped me was her analogy that \\"the concepts of dhimmi and dhimmitude are equivalent to Jew and Judaism, of Christian and Christianity.\\"  If you're still mystified, as I am, Bat Ye'Or has websites devoted to these subjects on the worldwide web.<br /><br />An \\"Amazon friend\\" recommended that I attend a talk by Bat Ye'Or in my neighborhood.  So glad I did, and I bought my book directly from the source!  I was impressed by this woman's soft-spoken demeanor, her mastery of the English language, (better than mine!), and the subject matter which is so relevant today.  Unfortunately, students at Georgetown University were not so receptive when she gave a talk there soon after this book was published in 2002.  The research in this book is incredible, Bat Ye'Or's research navigating through unchartered areas of islamic history, revealing how islamic law really deals with the \\"other\\" religions and peoples (dhimmis) to be found in their theocratic society.  It took me two weeks to slowly plod through this book, underlining, highlighting so many pages, the information and islamic terms totally unfathomable and foreign to me.  (I recommend bookmarking or photocopying the two page glossary of islamic words at the end, before and while reading it).<br /><br />In this book, she looks at \\"the people of the book\\", jews and christians in islamic lands all over the globe.  She has been criticized, because she is a jew, of being biased in her research.  However, I was surprised that she didn't write of Israel and anti-zionism more.  That information is to be found in this book, but there is plenty of evidence from other dhimmi groups to make a case that, at least to me, islamic laws need reforming.  Except that is no easy solution; Islamic law is perfect and to criticize it is blasphemous and the sentence for blasphemy is death!  What helped me in reading this book was what little I knew about the Armenian genocide during WWI from reading the Forty Days of Musa Dagh and Peter Balakian's The Burning Tigris. The deportations and slaughters, somehow becoming understandable upon reading this book, Bat Ye'Or revealing how islamic law and jihad, islamic war, operate in the dar al-Islam (land of Islam).  Ownership of ammunition is forbidden the dhimmi as well as the building of new churches or synagogues.  Mohammed has said that \\"the bell is the devil's pipe\\", Chapter 3:Religious and Social Aspects of Dhimmitude; therefore, without the simple church bell, communities are rendered utterly defenseless, unable to warn one another of dangers, unable to mobilize any defenses when protection (Jezhiya/poll tax) cannot be paid for.  (Thank goodness for the second amendment in this country).<br /><br />No telling how many people in the Sudan are being murdered as I type this right now.  A jihad there has been going on for decades.  In Chapter 8: The Return of Dhimmitude, Bat Ye'Or mentions that in 2000, the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Museum had an exhibit entitled \\"Genocide Warning:Sudan\\"; Amnesty International, this past week or so, now claims that today that warning is now a reality.<br /><br />We must understand Islam, but we must be selective about the sources we listen to.  Bat Ye'Or's voice is, in my opinion, as Major Joppolo explains in A Bell for Adano, \\"another broadcast, that you cannot hear quite so clearly.\\"are being murdered as I type this right now.  A jihad there has been going on for decades.  In Chapter 8: The Return of Dhimmitude, Bat Ye'Or mentions that in 2000, the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Museum had an exhibit entitled \\"Genocide Warning:Sudan\\"; Amnesty International, this past week or so, now claims that today that warning is now a reality.      We must understand Islam, but we must be selective about the sources we listen to.  Bat Ye'Or's voice is, in my opinion, as Major Joppolo explains in A Bell for Adano, \\"another broadcast, that you cannot hear quite so clearly.\\"	2004-07-04
US	27702773	R1SGJUDAVI3ICU	0449911470	763579968	Power of Positive Thinking	Books	4	10	15	N	N	&quot;Nothing on earth is greater...&quot;	&quot;than the human mind in potential power.&quot; NVP<br />A Peale classic!!!  Another spring cleaning survivor!  My copy has been rained on etc. but not ruined!  I'm not throwing this one out.<br />I first read this many, many moons ago in college.  My father had passed away during that time and I was unsure I would be able to complete my studies.  My mind was flooded with so many worries.  My sister gave me this book to read and whenever I would regress to my woe is me mode of thinking, she would snap, &quot;Go read your positive thinking book.&quot;!<br />I've since read other Norman Vincent Peale books and they're all written on the same lines.  I would classify them as self-help books but upon a christian foundation; Norman Vincent Peale was a protestant pastor of Marble Collegiate Church in New York City.  The power of positive thinking was published in 1952.<br />My only criticism, and the reason NVP fell from a 5 star grace to 4 is that his ideas fit too much into the traditional American idea of working your way to success and not into the biblical one.  The goal of the christian is to become more christ-like in character, not to become a financial success in the American marketplace.  But surely there are some people who are genuine christians and are successful that way.  But the main thing is the inner character which should reflect Christ's.<br />The sixth chapter on &quot;fuming and fretting&quot; contains my personal favorite verse to meditate on when my mental balance is being tipped: &quot;Thou wilt keep him in perfect peace, whose mind is stayed on Thee&quot;-Isaiah 26:3.  Obviously, I accepted and applied Norman Vincent Peale's practical advice to meditate on and repeat that verse as an antidote to such a mental state.  It works for me but might not work for others, if you do not fully comprehend what that 'Thee' (God) is all about.  If you don't know who the biblical God is, grab a Bible and read!  It's the only book I've read ten times from cover to cover.cover to cover.	2004-06-26
US	27702773	RCEWYU92NB57I	0684802309	733063543	Blood Sport: The President and His Adversaries	Books	4	6	14	N	N	I read this book during the Clinton years...	And was so disgusted at the time, that I threw it out my door to be picked up on trash day.  However, with all the overblown, sensational media advertising going on over the new Clinton book, my scientist's instinct has been revived and feel the other side must be considered too.  I remember the odd details of Vince Foster's death.  The story indeed smells funny...  I remembered that the book was well-written and researched; I think what revolted me was that it seemed that Stewart was hell-bent on proving Clinton the bad guy, and thinking to myself, who knows what really goes on in D.C.?  Perhaps, it was a Republican plot of some kind?<br />Clinton was the first president I voted for in 1992, consider myself a Democrat, so my comments may seem uncharacteristic.<br />Where unsolved murders (though Foster's was supposedly suicidal) go, I'm unusually sensitive, since an aunt of mine was murdered, and the murder is still unsolved, 30 years later.  I was going to a christian school at the time, in the fourth grade, being forced to read the books of Moses etc.  My aunt was a christian...anyway, her death has always somehow affected me with a deep desire for justice, particularly when innocent blood is shed.<br />I really didn't know how to rate this book because the evidence is particularly damaging, could easily be misconstrued.	2004-06-25
US	27702773	R1HJVT39KBXTZY	0881841072	354912050	Pilgrim's Way	Books	5	19	21	N	N	"Addressing a Gathering of Shades" Lord Tweedsmuir	Lord Tweedsmuir must not have liked public speaking. In Parliament, he felt he was \\"addressing a gathering of shades, who might at any moment disappear into limbo unless they were clutched by the hair.\\"  Elsewhere, he wrote that \\"I believed profoundly in the possibilities of the Empire as a guardian of world peace\\".<br /><br />John Buchan, later titled Lord Tweedsmuir, wrote several books while attending Oxford University and continued writing two or three books a year until his death.  His life was extraordinary; he studied law, served as secretary to the High Commissioner of South Africa, in WWI, a correspondent for the London times, was elected to Parliament, when he died, he was Governor General of Canada.  He had ambitions to climb Everest!!!  But all that is not in the book!  His most famous work was the Thirty Nine Steps, which was made into an Alfred Hitchcock movie.<br /><br />I had trouble reading this book at times, because he often writes of the personalities of people he remembered and knew, of people he admired.  Many of those personages are of a bygone era, around the turn of the 19th century, and most of them are British.  He wrote of so many people, that I would often forget which he, he was writing about, and had to flip a few pages back to figure it out.  He wrote of Arthur Balfour, prime minister of Britain and legislator of the Balfour Declaration which promised Israel a homeland in 1917,  and William Gladstone, another prime minister critical of prime minister Disraeli's pro-turkish policies during the Bulgarian massacres of the 1870's.  Gladstone resigned as prime minister in 1894 over the issue of Irish home rule, and just before the Armenian massacres of 1894-1896.  But those details I procured from web surfing.  Lord Tweedsmuir is more interested in the most noble attributes of their characters.  Of King George V, Queen Elizabeth II's grandfather, Lord Tweedsmuir writes:  \\"He had one key of access to all hearts, his sincere love of his fellows.  He could be explosive and denunciatory, but always with a twinkle in his eye...His simplicity, honesty, and warm human sympathy made themselves felt not only in the Empire but throughout the globe, so that millions who owed him no allegiance seemed to know and love him.  He was a pillar of all that was stable and honourable and of good report in a distracted world.\\"<br /><br />I loved Lord Tweedsmuir's descriptions of the English and Scottish countrysides.  He describes the forests of his boyhood home as: \\"the woods were, on the whole, a solemn place, canopied by Calvinistic heavens\\" and \\"as a child, autumn meant the thick, close odour of rotting leaves, varied by scents from the harvested stubble; glimpses of uncanny scarlet toadstools, which I believed to be the work of Lapland witches...Winter meant vistas of frozen branches with cold blue lights between...\\"  I imagine that JFK found solace in such writing, hardly a war-rallying work, although Lord Tweedsmuir also writes about the friends and family he lost in WWI, and Britain's South African campaigns before that.e explosive and denunciatory, but always with a twinkle in his eye...His simplicity, honesty, and warm human sympathy made themselves felt not only in the Empire but throughout the globe, so that millions who owed him no allegiance seemed to know and love him.  He was a pillar of all that was stable and honourable and of good report in a distracted world.\\"    I loved Lord Tweedsmuir's descriptions of the English and Scottish countrysides.  He describes the forests of his boyhood home as: \\"the woods were, on the whole, a solemn place, canopied by Calvinistic heavens\\" and \\"as a child, autumn meant the thick, close odour of rotting leaves, varied by scents from the harvested stubble; glimpses of uncanny scarlet toadstools, which I believed to be the work of Lapland witches...Winter meant vistas of frozen branches with cold blue lights between...\\"  I imagine that JFK found solace in such writing, hardly a war-rallying work, although Lord Tweedsmuir also writes about the friends and family he lost in WWI, and Britain's South African campaigns before that.	2004-06-25
US	27702773	R1WNQL1IVKE2PT	0060198400	917355240	The Burning Tigris: The Armenian Genocide and America's Response	Books	5	43	51	N	N	&quot;This, then, is G_d murder...&quot;-Franz Werfel	&quot;Never...had the Agha Rifaat Bereket seen such faces...Nearly all these children had swollen heads, on the thinnest necks, and their huge staring eyes had a knowledge in them forbidden the children of humankind...The most horrible thing...was not that a whole people had been exterminated, but that a whole people, G-d's children, had been dehumanized.  The sword of Enver...had struck Allah...And whoso degrades His dignity in the creature, degrades the Creator in his victim.<br />This, then, is G_d murder, the sin which, to the end of time, is never forgiven.&quot;<br />The Forty Days of Musa Dagh by Franz Werfel<br />The Burning Tigris is an excellent book, a must read, an authentic gem, no falsehood found within.  There are so many important facts in The Burning Tigris; this book is probably Balakian's crowning achievement.  I would give this book 10 x 10 x 10 stars, 5 is too few!  All americans must read this book.<br />For those who do not want to believe that the massacres and &quot;government-sponsored genocide&quot; happened, I believe there are many proofs to the contrary found within Balakian's book.  For, it was after the massacres of the early 1890's that the world began to witness the beginnings of human rights awareness from the steps of Faneuil Hall in Downtown Boston.  Among the first public speakers on the issue, was Clara Barton, founder of America's Red Cross.  The predicament of the Armenians propelled the Red Cross overseas for the first time in U.S. history.  And that is just the start of this historical book.  If you still have doubts, come to Watertown, Massachusetts where there is an entire library devoted to all things Armenian.  I'm not Armenian myself, but have met some truly genuine Armenian people in my neighborhood and 'foster' state.<br />I absolutely adore Teddy Roosevelt and Henry Morgenthau after reading this book.  Roosevelt criticized his own country and President Wilson for not declaring war on the Ottoman empire during WWI and disclosed that missionaries working there had over 100 million dollars worth of real estate holdings threatened, revealing the darker side of missionary work overseas.  Ambassador Morgenthau time after time met with various Turkish administrators on behalf of lives and property in the hands of the turkish authorities.  Talaat Pasha once asked him for the life insurance policies of all the Armenians who had died claiming that the state would now own them all!!!  Ambassador Morgenthau refused him furiously knowing full well how Talaat's Turkish government had violently disposed of hundreds of thousands of precious human lives, not only Armenian.<br />Terrorism and tragedies are indeed worldwide, yet I do maintain that studying the Armenian experiences within this past century and a half, is instructive in so many ways.  (Armenia was the first Christian nation to declare Christianity their official religion; I was taught in school that Rome was the first nation to do so, obviously this is incorrect).  Balakian has chosen for this book to show how America responded to their crises starting from the massacres in the 1890's until the present time.  In the aftermath of the genocide of WWI, international efforts were directed at trying to punish the perpetrators of the horrific crimes committed resulting only in a Turkish courts-martial, with many of the criminals later on the loose again.  Finally, in the past decades, sadly, many prominent politicians worldwide have been lured by petrol dollars, threatened by the perpetrators to deny that the genocide ever happened, while so many thousands upon thousands of other peoples living in Islamic countries are denied justice today still...and disclosed that missionaries working there had over 100 million dollars worth of real estate holdings threatened, revealing the darker side of missionary work overseas.  Ambassador Morgenthau time after time met with various Turkish administrators on behalf of lives and property in the hands of the turkish authorities.  Talaat Pasha once asked him for the life insurance policies of all the Armenians who had died claiming that the state would now own them all!!!  Ambassador Morgenthau refused him furiously knowing full well how Talaat's Turkish government had violently disposed of hundreds of thousands of precious human lives, not only Armenian. <br />Terrorism and tragedies are indeed worldwide, yet I do maintain that studying the Armenian experiences within this past century and a half, is instructive in so many ways.  (Armenia was the first Christian nation to declare Christianity their official religion; I was taught in school that Rome was the first nation to do so, obviously this is incorrect).  Balakian has chosen for this book to show how America responded to their crises starting from the massacres in the 1890's until the present time.  In the aftermath of the genocide of WWI, international efforts were directed at trying to punish the perpetrators of the horrific crimes committed resulting only in a Turkish courts-martial, with many of the criminals later on the loose again.  Finally, in the past decades, sadly, many prominent politicians worldwide have been lured by petrol dollars, threatened by the perpetrators to deny that the genocide ever happened, while so many thousands upon thousands of other peoples living in Islamic countries are denied justice today still...	2004-06-24
US	27702773	R2O617NWB5FASD	0688013120	8009803	The Psalms of David	Books	5	19	23	N	N	SCATTER THOU THE PEOPLE THAT DELIGHT IN WAR-Psalm 68:30	My mother gave me this book as a Christmas present.  She must have sensed my reaction, I said nothing when I discovered the contents.  (How many more bibles do I need, and I already have two books of Psalms, one in Hebrew, and I have too much stuff in my small apartment that I'm trying to get rid of!!!  I thought all these things to myself). Later, in the midst of a room filled with my family's mounds of torn wrapping paper, she opened this book and began to point out to me how Mr. Freemantle inscribed each verse, highlighting those which meant the most to him.<br />The one verse I picked out for the title of this review was written smaller than the others by Mr. Freemantle, yet it spoke to me at this time in our country's history.  The Psalms are G_d-breathed as all biblical scripture is, as I've been taught in Sunday school, inspired by the Holy Spirit.  The Psalms are a classic, regardless of how they've been illustrated.  Try praying these or with these, it's very powerful let me tell you!  The author of most of the Psalms, King David, 'the sweet psalmist of Israel', was the second king of Israel and ancestor of Christ-see Jesus's geneaology in Matthew 1 and Luke 3:31.<br />Mr. Freemantle includes drawings of India where he was born and pictures of his travels when in service as a British army officer.  There are also pictures of various places in Israel: Nazareth, Sidon, Rachel's tomb.  A picture of the Golden temple of Amritsar, town of the infamous massacre in Gandhi's time, on page 113.  It took him a lifetime to hand write and illustrate each psalm.<br />I love this book; my mother ALWAYS gives me good books to read.<br />You can never go wrong with the Psalms.  The whole range of human emotion is found therein and all sung to the Author of all souls.<br />As I've said many times before, my mother always gives me good books to read!	2004-06-04
US	27702773	R2L964LNL6Y6NB	1400034779	405618230	The No. 1 Ladies' Detective Agency (Book 1)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Justice-Mma Ramotswe Style	I probably wouldn't have read this except that my mother threw this one my way, plus most of my family's read at least this one of the series by Alexander McCall Smith.<br />Mma Ramotswe's detective agency, the only one in the entire country of Botswana in southern Africa, is, (by American standards), short-staffed and sparsely equipped; she's the only detective, her only equipment a phone, her white van, and a typewriter.  She has one employee.  She purchased her one room office building with inheritance money she received from her father who had been a small-scale cattle rancher.<br />My favorite case which she solves is a scam, commonplace in Botswana, where an elderly man shacks up with a young female pretending to be her long lost father and whose sole objective is to drain her of her time, energy, and finances so long as he abides there.<br />How she obtains her first confession was my first lol, laughing out loud, incident while reading this book.	2004-05-29
US	27702773	R2B0BFICV5ZA51	0440214041	859359548	The Pelican Brief	Books	5	5	8	N	N	'The pelican became the hero'	&quot;The politicians from the governors down took the oil money and played along.  All was well, and so what if some of the marshlands suffered.&quot;<br />Years ago I would read every Grisham book that came out.  John Grisham is a fellow southerner, born and raised in Mississippi, schooled at Ole Miss.  His characters remind me so much of the people I grew up with, remind me of my home.  The Firm is my least favorite of his books which is surprising since the setting for that story is in my hometown of Memphis, TN; the movie was even worse since whoever directed or produced it totally botched the ending.<br />I read this book in one day in my backyard.  I lay motionless in a lounge chair only moving the muscles in my thumb and forefinger; I've never read a book like that in my entire life!	2004-05-24
US	27702773	R2BCA154XV4WQX	0812583078	966686849	This Widowed Land	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Religion Undefiled...-James 1:27	Is this: to visit the fatherless and widows in their affliction, and to keep oneself unspotted from the world.<br />Deuteronomy 24:17  Thou shalt not pervert the judgment of the stranger, nor of the fatherless; nor take a widow's raiment to pledge.<br />What I remember from this book was the contrast between two jesuit priests sent into the wilds of Quebec to live among the tame Huron Indian tribe.  One priest truly understood the love of God, the other, more legalistic and harsh, a rules rules kind of person, carrying his cross, rosary, bible wherever he went.  The vector of the epidemic which rages amongst the Huron peoples following the jesuits arrival comes from one of the implements of their faith.<br />Kathleen O'Neal Gear and her husband Michael are both archeologists who have worked in the past for the U.S. Bureau of Land Management.  Years ago, I read their series of books on American Indian tribes of North America which starts with The People of the Wolf, the account of the indians migration across the Bering Strait.  Totally loved those books, learned so much about the different tribes' lifestyle and culture.  Some common misconceptions of these people disproved by the evidence found hidden underneath the dirt covering their remains.	2004-05-24
US	27702773	R1QAX2XAQ472BQ	0553256696	393857282	The Hiding Place: The Triumphant True Story of Corrie Ten Boom	Books	5	2	2	N	N	THE OLIVE TREES THAT STAND IN SILENCE-N. Shemer	THE POWER OF DARKNESS-Luke 22:52-53<br />Christ's words at His arrest in the garden of Gethsemane: \\"Be ye come out, as against a thief, with swords and staves?  When I was daily with you in the temple, ye stretched forth no hands against me: BUT THIS IS YOUR HOUR, AND THE POWER OF DARKNESS.\\"<br />Corrie Ten Boom has a tree planted in her name along the avenue of the Righteous of the Nations at Yad Vashem, Israel's Shoah Memorial.  The avenue and trees are all dedicated to non-jews who saved jewish lives during the Nazi regime.<br />Holland was invaded by Hitler's troops on May 10, 1940.  The Ten Boom family lived in Haarlem and spent several years hiding jews, working to get them safely out of Hitler's occupied territory.  Her sister Betsie urged her sister before dying at Ravensbruke \\"...must tell people what we have learned here...They will listen to us because we have been here.\\"<br />Let's hope that those who still refuse to listen, will reconsider the testimonies of these silent trees.	2004-05-24
US	27702773	RRR9VH50W88S8	0671023373	104801902	Man's Search For Meaning	Books	5	5	11	N	N	Why art thou cast down, O my soul?  Psalm 43:5	Surely topics and questions that have not been sufficiently answered since time began (whenever that was).<br />My paperback copy was swiped off the shelf of my maternal grandmother's; no telling how much she payed for it at the time,(25 cents maybe for a 1960's copy?).<br />I loved this book, even though it deals with horrific realities in a concentration camp.<br />Victor Frankl's experiences in the camp at Aushwitz are herein related.  Also, threaded within that account are his reflections on the human psyche's response to such horrifying treatment which gave credence and further insight into his own developing system of psychotherapy, later termed logotherapy.  His life's work was hidden within his coat, but the Nazi's confiscated and destroyed his manuscript upon arrival at the camp.  He would spend whatever precious moments of personal freedom to scribble his thoughts on whatever he could find to keep those thoughts alive.<br />What made the most lasting impression on me was his describing that first day at Aushwitz when the Nazi's, from a sick and twisted interpretation/understanding of Matthew 25:33, divided all of the arrivals into two groups, one to be gassed and the other to survive and go through a hellish ordeal at the unmerciful mercy of their captors.  My thoughts on the Nazi's action in that instance is that they must not have read in their Bibles where God says \\"Vengeance is mine says the Lord, I will repay\\" which is found in both the Old and New Testaments, and to Abraham and his descendants \\"I will curse those who curse thee\\" Genesis 12:3.<br />Frankl's Logotherapy has benefitted such groups of people suffering from depression and other severe forms of mental disturbances.	2004-05-15
US	27702773	R3RE03HXN9FKWZ	0333747607	376238124	A History of St. Kitts: The Sweet Trade	Books	5	7	8	N	N	"Calamities and Crimes"-Captain Southey's History...1827	Epigram from Vince Hubbard's Foreword by Captain Southey:<br /><br />\\"The history of the West Indies presents little more than a melancholy series of calamities and crimes.\\"  Chronological History of the West Indies, Vol. III.<br /><br />I had hoped to meet Mr. Hubbard during my last trip to Nevis in 2004, having loved his first book, Swords, Ships, and Sugar, and wanting to find out geneaological information from this gent who was described to me as \\"a walking encyclopedia\\" by an innkeeper on Nevis.  The office of the inn, which 200 years ago concerned itself with administrative/accounting tasks related to sugar cane sales/production, contained this book for sale which was published during the intervening years of my first trip to Nevis in 2001.  (St. Kitts and Nevis are separated by only two miles of water.)  In the foreword of this book, Hubbard explains that the first Europeans came in 1623, sugar cane came to St. Kitts in 1643, the first caribbean island to receive it.<br /><br />I enjoyed this book as much as Hubbard's History of Nevis.  Found myself laughing out loud on the airplane reading about some unruly pirates who wooed and wed some 'timid orphans' from Paris whose previous occupation was prostitution.  The scheme was masterminded by the French hoping that the troublesome pirates would settle down.  In Hubbard's retelling he includes the marriage oaths:  \\"I take thee without knowing or caring to know, whom thou art.....I do not desire thee to give me an account of thy past conduct.....I acquit thee of what is past [then striking his hand on the barrel of his pistol] This will revenge me of thy breach of faith...]!!!  Colorful history-telling as always from Vince Hubbard.  (Michener's Caribbean is equally good but covers the history every island in the region; Michener's novel, of course, is grander in scale and colorful in the sense the Caribbean inherently generates given the very diverse languages, geologies, ecologies, cultures etc. that are displayed in that region of the globe.)<br /><br />What I enjoyed most from his book, surprisingly, were the final chapters on the twentieth century making me ponder at the curious evolution of government on these islands.  Independence was procured from Great Britain in 1983 which seems to me, if I may use the term, reverse colonialism in that self-government was ordained yet membership in the British Commonwealth continued.  (Maybe, that's wise given that piracy of a different sort abounds in those straits today: drug smuggling/money laundering.  The Caribbean islands being the intermediary focal point of this modern, slaveless triangle trade between South America (substituting for Africa as the third link) and North America.)  It's interesting to see the failures of the federations as well as the tenuous one remaining between St. Kitts and Nevis today.  Will the individual islands be like colonial states, will they or won't they have some form of federal government governing them all?  Is that at all possible, given the geographical separation of  them by miles upon miles of sometimes hurricane tossed waters?  Could their economic situation improve as a result?  Could the American Revolutionary experiment of 300 plus years ago be a paradigm/godsend for them.  Or am I dreaming an impossible dream?<br /><br />I love these islands, these peoples.  The natives of St Kitts and Nevis are some of the sweetest people I've ever met; they are ingenuous but are also clever.  Their lives are very simple.  Distancewise, these isles are the same distance from Florida as D.C., but in so many ways, I feel always like I'm living in an entirely different world.<br /><br />Is it paradise, perhaps???e globe.)    What I enjoyed most from his book, surprisingly, were the final chapters on the twentieth century making me ponder at the curious evolution of government on these islands.  Independence was procured from Great Britain in 1983 which seems to me, if I may use the term, reverse colonialism in that self-government was ordained yet membership in the British Commonwealth continued.  (Maybe, that's wise given that piracy of a different sort abounds in those straits today: drug smuggling/money laundering.  The Caribbean islands being the intermediary focal point of this modern, slaveless triangle trade between South America (substituting for Africa as the third link) and North America.)  It's interesting to see the failures of the federations as well as the tenuous one remaining between St. Kitts and Nevis today.  Will the individual islands be like colonial states, will they or won't they have some form of federal government governing them all?  Is that at all possible, given the geographical separation of  them by miles upon miles of sometimes hurricane tossed waters?  Could their economic situation improve as a result?  Could the American Revolutionary experiment of 300 plus years ago be a paradigm/godsend for them.  Or am I dreaming an impossible dream?      I love these islands, these peoples.  The natives of St Kitts and Nevis are some of the sweetest people I've ever met; they are ingenuous but are also clever.  Their lives are very simple.  Distancewise, these isles are the same distance from Florida as D.C., but in so many ways, I feel always like I'm living in an entirely different world.      Is it paradise, perhaps???	2004-05-05
US	27702773	R3DN5CPD2I8T3N	0684863316	419002241	Alexander Hamilton, American	Books	5	7	11	N	N	&quot;This is a Mortal Wound, Doctor&quot;-Alexander Hamilton	Good Friday, April 9, 2004<br />I should listen to my mother more often.  &quot;Never talk about religion or politics.&quot;  That's hard to do, however, in an election year!  However, my mother is usually correct.  (My Hamilton roots come from my mother's, mother's, mother, Molly Hamilton Summers.  This Scots-Irish branch of my family is also the bookworm branch in the family.  My mother's reading a book right now!)<br />I find it funny that most of Hamilton's modern day biographers hold predominantly republican sentiments.  Richard Brookhiser is an editor of The National Review, a conservative publication with strong right leanings.  My mother tells me too that it's good that there are Republicans as well as Democrats, although I'm still somewhat skeptical!<br />After calming down from my initial upset over Brookhiser's estimation of Alexander's father's character, (he states repeatedly that he was a bum), I've carefully read every word of the book.  Brookhiser's analysis of Hamilton and other patriots is fair-minded for the most part.  The book is only 200 plus pages, and so is not an in-depth analysis of Hamilton or his achievements as McDonald's is.  Brookhiser's book should be read before McDonald's; I think it would make McDonald's less cumbersome to read.  Again, Forrest McDonald's book is incredibly well researched, no doubt about it.<br />Brookhiser includes some of my favorite quotes by or about Hamilton, although my favorite story about his life is not.  Whatever you think about the duel, Princeton University, at one time, contained evidence of Alexander's markmanship on their walls.  During the battle of Princeton, Alexander fired his cannon at a picture of King George III, the Hanoverian king of Britain, totally smashing it head on!  The frame was saved and the portrait was switched to one of General George Washington!  Alexander had decided against Princeton and enrolled at Columbia where he could study at his own fast speed.<br />I think Forrest McDonald's assessment of Burr is more thorough.  It seems to me, the real issue between them was financial/political, not just a &quot;character&quot; issue on Burr's part.  However, Brookhiser' biography is probably more realistic and forgiving in his analysis of Jefferson, Adams, Madison and others who did not share Hamilton's views in the last years of his life.<br />What I liked most about this book was that Alexander's feats/defeats are told within the continental context through which they were unfolding.  It's a good review of the basics in American colonial history.Donald's assessment of Burr is more thorough.  It seems to me, the real issue between them was financial/political, not just a &quot;character&quot; issue on Burr's part.  However, Brookhiser' biography is probably more realistic and forgiving in his analysis of Jefferson, Adams, Madison and others who did not share Hamilton's views in the last years of his life.<br />What I liked most about this book was that Alexander's feats/defeats are told within the continental context through which they were unfolding.  It's a good review of the basics in American colonial history.	2004-04-09
US	27702773	R91D7SMMZBW0P	0804102988	767740511	Sarum: The Novel of England	Books	5	8	12	N	N	The Romans Conquered England	The Romans conquered England but couldn't conquer the Scots!<br />Sarum is the Roman name given to the English town of Salisbury.  This book is a historical novel, told much in the same way as Michener's The Source.  The characters are fictional, the history true. The story begins with how Britain became populated at the dawn of prehistory, how it became an island.  The story ends in the twentieth century with the 404 ft spire, (tallest in Britain), of Salisbury Cathedral lying in near ruin.  In between those events, is the story of stonehenge which is proximal to the modern town.  This book is a great primer of British history, especially for someone like me who has an interest in european history but has never been schooled in it.  I read this book nearly two decades ago, but it has somehow been filed away in my subconscious all those years.  Possibly, given the popularity of the book when it was published in 1987, Prince Charles raised the millions of pounds sterling to repair Salisbury Cathedral.  The author was born and raised there, christened in the cathedral.<br />The emperor Hadrian ordered a wall to be built in 122-123 A.D. to keep the barbarians, those wild, unruly Scots out!  Hadrian's wall roughly approximates the present border of Scotland and England.  Jesus's apostle, St. Andrew, has at least some of his bones in Scotland today.  St. Rule was in charge of these relics in Patras, Greece where St. Andrew was crucified on a diagonal cross.  (Where St. Andrew's is located today roughly approximates where St. Rule landed in Scotland).  He had disobeyed an order of Constantine to bring them to Constantinople because he had been warned in a dream by an angel to bring them to the farthest reaches of the known world, which in 300-340 A.D. was Scotland.  The modern Scottish flag has been around as early as 1200 A.D.; it depicts the white diagonal cross, St. Andrew's cross, on a blue background which represents the color of the sky the day St. Andrew died.  That's not in this book, but it's my favorite Scottish, true, story!  One that you need to know too!t's not in this book, but it's my favorite Scottish, true, story!  One that you need to know too!	2004-03-30
US	27702773	R6Y63SLU9WOZ6	0385473079	894338649	The Return of the Prodigal Son: A Story of Homecoming	Books	5	8	8	N	N	The Father Judgeth No Man-John 5:22	Someone from my church recommended this book to me, and it's another book that will be an eternal, spring cleaning survivor in my house! I read this book several years ago.<br />At first, I was skeptical of the book's content.  How, I thought, could an entire book be written upon a short, but well-known parable of Jesus and a painting of Rembrandt's?  What else could I learn about this parable that I hadn't learned already?  No telling how many sermons or sunday school lessons I've heard in my lifetime on this parable.<br />It's really a beautiful book.  Hang in there; I had a hard time at first getting interested in it.  I loved his analyses of each of the three characters in the painting and parable, the father, elder son, and prodigal son.  There is something in all of us resembling the character of the two sons, which is usually the take home message from Sunday service.  For me, the take home message from Nouwen's book, which was novel to me, was his understanding of the father, whose character is synonymous with God the Father, and how God wants us to model that character in our own lives.  Nouwen's analysis is really beautiful; believe me the book is a keeper.	2004-03-24
US	27702773	R3P8VS4WTX13K6	0807842591	286136668	The Scotch-Irish: A Social History	Books	5	72	80	N	N	"For They Desired a Better Country"-Hebrews 11:16	This is the first book I've read about the Scotch Irish and seems to be the accepted standard on the subject.<br />Professor Leyburn explains in his introduction that his book is \\"a social history of the Scotch-Irish. In this day of specialization, a social historian who undertakes to recount the life of people through three centuries and in three countries knowingly risks his scholarly head.  Experts in Scottish, Irish, and American colonial history can only regard him as...ignorant of the finer points within their special fields.  Scottish history is full of old controversies...Irish history has been so turbulent...few of its events is agreed upon.\\"  And Leyburn accomplishes this in only 330 pages.  He divides his book into three parts:the Scot in 1600, the Scots in Ireland, the Scotch-Irish in America.<br />Being a southerner with Scotch-Irish roots in Tennessee, I was upset early on when Leyburn stated that Teddy Roosevelt's and others' claims that the Scotch-Irish were hardy, honorable folk was overblown.  (Teddy's mother, Eleanor's grandmother, was a native Georgian, hardened, undoubtedly, by the Civil War's trials, Sherman's fiery footprints, amongst other things).  Some of the trials of the Ulster scots in war and life and the deprivations they had to endure reminded me of the 40 day siege of Vicksburg, MS  and the resiliency demonstrated by its citizens during the civil war.  However, later on in the book, Leyburn's careful reasoning convinced me that he was more realistic. What stirred my thinking was Leyburn's comments in Chapter 16 when he states \\"political opinion and activity among the Scotch-Irish varied enormously from place to place.  The whole mythology concerning this people rests upon a false assumption:that all Scotch-Irish thought alike.  Why should they?  They had come from different social classes back home; they entered America during six decades of remarkable fluctuation in ideas; they lived in colonies whose policies, attitudes, Indian problems, and progress toward stable institutions diverged widely.\\"  One can validate that statement easily by simply surfing the web and looking at the politics of numerous U.S. presidents with Scotch-Irish roots and see the \\"divergence\\" Leyburn speaks of.<br />I do believe, however, that Teddy Roosevelt's assertion that some Ulster Scots, Scotch-Irish, did play a pivotal role in early American history has many proofs.  In Pennsylvania, as Leyburn recounts, in 1764, Ulster Scots pushed for equal representation within the state which was dominated by the minority quaker population concentrated around Philadelphia.  That issue was one which the Scot felt most keenly following the Union of the crowns in 1707 accomplished during Queen Anne's reign; in parliament, Scots nobles were unfairly outnumbered by their English counterparts, see Paterson's History of Ayrshire.<br />I do believe some of these simple, biblically literate peoples, did desire a better country, and considered it their God-given task to try to make it a reality.  The Baptists in Virginia, James Madison's state, were a significant force behind the freedom of religion/separation of church and state movement; ONE I FIRMLY BELIEVE MUST BE MAINTAINED!  Just look at the bloody history of Christian Great Britain 300 years before the Revolutionary War; events that brought persecuted immigrants to the U.S. in the first place.  The stuff seminarians don't study!<br />If you are an American doing geneaological research on your Scotch-Irish roots this is the resource book to get.  I must add, too, if you have French Huguenot roots, they might have resided in Northern Ireland, in Ulster, before coming to America.  I thought Leyburn was mistaken when he referred to Alexander Hamilton as an Ulster Scot.  I know for a fact (court records) that his Hamilton ancestors were Scots from Ayrshire on the western coast of Scotland.  That portion of Ayr, however, is extremely close to Northern Ireland, just a hop, skip, and a jump away!  Alexander Hamilton's mother was French Huguenot, possibly her ancestors left Ulster to settle in Nevis, West Indies.  Leyburn's statement is therefore correct again.  Chapters 12 and 13 cover the conditions prompting immigration and the actual areas of settlement in colonial America of Scotch-Irish.  Many people have been researching my Hamilton ancestors for years and can't get past 1780.  Many of Leyburn's analyses are correct I believe.<br />A New Ireland by John Hume is on my books to read list about the 1998 Good Friday peace accord.  Another book highly recommended to me is The Triumph of the Laity: Scots-Irish Piety and the Great Awakening, 1625-1760 by Marilyn J. Westerkamp.  Hopefully, that book will give me a better understanding of my ancestors' background.<br />I gave the 5 star rating because I believe the subject matter warrants further study and is relevant for today.  Truly understanding Ulster's history, (I believe), the conflicts, the circumstances and the social make-up of Northern Ireland itself, at distinct times in its history, is essential to the peace process there.nd a jump away!  Alexander Hamilton's mother was French Huguenot, possibly her ancestors left Ulster to settle in Nevis, West Indies.  Leyburn's statement is therefore correct again.  Chapters 12 and 13 cover the conditions prompting immigration and the actual areas of settlement in colonial America of Scotch-Irish.  Many people have been researching my Hamilton ancestors for years and can't get past 1780.  Many of Leyburn's analyses are correct I believe.  <br />A New Ireland by John Hume is on my books to read list about the 1998 Good Friday peace accord.  Another book highly recommended to me is The Triumph of the Laity: Scots-Irish Piety and the Great Awakening, 1625-1760 by Marilyn J. Westerkamp.  Hopefully, that book will give me a better understanding of my ancestors' background.<br />I gave the 5 star rating because I believe the subject matter warrants further study and is relevant for today.  Truly understanding Ulster's history, (I believe), the conflicts, the circumstances and the social make-up of Northern Ireland itself, at distinct times in its history, is essential to the peace process there.	2004-03-18
US	27702773	R33W1N67G1TOOX	0313228744	948477659	Why England Slept	Books	5	24	29	N	N	"Watchmen on the walls of world freedom"-JFK	Timeless.<br /><br />How can I say that? The book is dated, published in1940, originally JFK's senior thesis at Harvard.<br /><br />I have to admit, as a young girl, part of my attraction to JFK, RFK and others of this family, was their amazing good looks and charisma revealed in so many photographs within a multitude of magazines and film reels of their public speeches.<br /><br />However, actually reading what they have written and looking at the subject matter that they chose for their published books, I am struck by the depth of their intellect and grateful for their insights into topics of such great importance to our country and for the world. Even if they didn't write a word of their books, which I highly doubt, it can be said at least, that they surely were wise in their instruction and the person(s) they chose to write them.<br /><br />This book was written to analyze what was happening within England before WWII began for them and in order to explain why they were so ill-equipped for the war when it started. Year by year up to 1940, JFK reveals the major events worldwide, the sentiments expressed by the British political parties and public, and the policies that resulted which affected munitions' numbers. Yet far from being a drab accountant's ledger of munitions numbers, JFK's book reveals his perceptive instinct which is surely a requisite character trait of someone who would receive for 1000 days the greatest power in office from one of the greatest countries in the world.<br /><br />The title for this review was taken from a speech JFK never delivered as he was to speak at the Dallas Trade Mart that last day.  The speech is really beautiful.  Here are some excerpts:<br /><br />\\"...Ignorance and misinformation can handicap the progress of a city or a company, but they can, if allowed to prevail in foreign policy, handicap this country's security. In a world of complex and continuing problems, in a world full of frustrations and irritations, America's leadership must be guided by the lights of learning and reason --- or else those who confuse rhetoric with reality and the plausible with the possible will gain the popular ascendancy with their seemingly swift and simple solutions to every world problem.\\"<br /><br />JFK's closing remarks:<br /><br />\\"My friends and fellow citizens: I cite these facts and figures to make it clear that America today is stronger than ever before. Our adversaries have not abandoned their ambitions, our dangers have not diminished, our vigilance cannot be relaxed. But now we have the military, the scientific, and the economic strength to do whatever must be done for the preservation and promotion of freedom.<br /><br />That strength will never be used in pursuit of aggressive ambitions --- it will always be used in pursuit of peace. It will never be used to promote provocations --- it will always be used to promote the peaceful settlement of disputes.<br /><br />We in this country, in this generation, are --- by destiny rather than choice --- the watchmen on the walls of world freedom. We ask, therefore, that we may be worthy of our power and responsibility, that we may exercise our strength with wisdom and restraint, and that we may achieve in our time and for all time the ancient vision of \\"peace on earth, good will toward men.\\" That must always be our goal, and the righteousness of our cause must always underlie our strength. For as was written long ago, \\"except the Lord keep the city, the watchman waketh but in vain.\\"g and reason --- or else those who confuse rhetoric with reality and the plausible with the possible will gain the popular ascendancy with their seemingly swift and simple solutions to every world problem.\\"    JFK's closing remarks:    \\"My friends and fellow citizens: I cite these facts and figures to make it clear that America today is stronger than ever before. Our adversaries have not abandoned their ambitions, our dangers have not diminished, our vigilance cannot be relaxed. But now we have the military, the scientific, and the economic strength to do whatever must be done for the preservation and promotion of freedom.    That strength will never be used in pursuit of aggressive ambitions --- it will always be used in pursuit of peace. It will never be used to promote provocations --- it will always be used to promote the peaceful settlement of disputes.    We in this country, in this generation, are --- by destiny rather than choice --- the watchmen on the walls of world freedom. We ask, therefore, that we may be worthy of our power and responsibility, that we may exercise our strength with wisdom and restraint, and that we may achieve in our time and for all time the ancient vision of \\"peace on earth, good will toward men.\\" That must always be our goal, and the righteousness of our cause must always underlie our strength. For as was written long ago, \\"except the Lord keep the city, the watchman waketh but in vain.\\"	2004-02-18
US	27702773	R1YAYCSFZY7DNN	0030684552	393596355	Legends of Our Time	Books	5	16	26	N	N	Israel is Oppressed	I loved this book.  As much as I would like to understand how the Shoah happened, as a Christian, after reading Wiesel, I have to respond to the psalmist's command &quot;and all wickedness shuts its mouth.  Psalm 107:42.&quot;<br />Most of Wiesel's books are fiction, but in this one, he is the main character.  The book is thoughtful and thought provoking.  My copy was given me by a jewish friend whom I had to convince I wanted to keep it; she wanted to keep it too!  (I normally return borrowed books).<br />Haunting when Wiesel returns to Sighet in Romania to walk the streets of his hometown.  He reflected &quot;Nothing had changed.  The house was the same, the street was the same, the world was the same, God was the same.  Only the jews had disappeared.&quot;  Can you imagine anything like that?<br />If it is any consolation, and I hope Mr. Wiesel is not offended, &quot;behold, the Lord hath proclaimed unto the end of the world, Say ye to the daughter of Zion, behold your salvation comes, and his recompense with Him.  Isaiah 62:11&quot;  And, from Isaiah 61:8 &quot;the Lord loves justice, He hates robbery and wrong.&quot;  And from Isaiah 25:8 &quot;and the Lord God will wipe away all tears from their eyes, and will swallow up death in victory.&quot;<br />And if Christians do not see the writing on the wall and see our own guilt in what transpired in this last century, and at least respond with knocking knees, as Belshazzar, the Babylonian king, did, then Christianity is in deep trouble.  But those are my own reflections not Wiesel's.  He states in this book &quot;That is what I reproach us for: our boundless arrogance in thinking we know everything.&quot;  And &quot;I repeat: hatred is no solution.&quot;	2004-01-24
US	27702773	R2RETARVTGH541	0877842736	118619703	Daniel (Tyndale Old Testament Commentaries)	Books	5	10	17	N	N	They that are Wise Daniel 12:3	They that are wise shall shine as the brightness of the firmament; and they that turn many to righteousness as the stars forever and ever.  Daniel 12:3<br />I used several commentaries for teaching a very small group bible study on Daniel and preferred Baldwin's book over them all.  The NIV commentary was too simplistic for my taste, and is geared mainly for direct use in small group studies.  For Old Testament studies, the NIV version of the Bible has numerous errors on critical verses, some on messianic prophecies, as in Isaiah 7:14.  I have numerous jewish commentaries which I have acquired from Brookline, MA, and the English translation is closest to the New American Standard Bible which is used, thankfully, at most seminaries.  For my study of Daniel, I used the jewish commentary from Soncino press.<br />Daniel is probably the easiest book of the Bible to read, (my favorite), yet, carefully read, has some of the most difficult passages to interpret in all of scripture.  Baldwin deals with these in sections entitled additional notes and presents all of the differing interpretations regarding them which I believe is wise when dealing with prophecies that have yet to be fulfilled.<br />I love the Tyndale series too, but, if anything, I encourage you to read the book of Daniel itself.<br />As a postscript, I must add that William Tyndale gave us the English Bible.  He was martyred in Antwerp, Belgium in 1536.  He spoke much about the \\"powers that be\\" which is actually taken from Romans 13:1.	2004-01-21
US	27702773	R18Q4UWF3D5B9P	0131337939	475782044	Christians Diary	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Pray Without Ceasing I Thessalonians 5:17	This book is more of a workbook than a book, but extremely practical.  It's basically a prayer diary/journal.<br />I love how Ms. Carroll has organized the blank pages for you in your personal communion with God.  There are three sections for scripture, journal, and prayer.  She provides a verse to meditate on, and encourages you to think of similar ones on your own.  My earliest entry is 1989, and embarassingly have not completed the book!  It really helped me, however, in my prayer life to be able to identify my burdens and give God specific requests, to give thanks and praise, and to confess my sins.<br />So excellent that Amazon has this book to offer you.	2004-01-20
US	27702773	R2FWZP5RRQW9NP	0060608528	317871622	Life Together: The Classic Exploration of Christian in Community	Books	5	7	8	N	N	He lives to make intercession for us.  Hebrews 7:25	Satan is the accuser, the Bible says.  But Christ, with the Spirit, intercedes for us, as the Apostle Paul says in Romans 8:26 &quot;with sighs too deep for words&quot;.<br />A beautiful book, my copy freely given me by a Lutheran pastor who shared my love for Bonhoeffer.  I wanted to lead a Bible study, he said if he ever led one he would use this book!<br />I first heard of Bonhoeffer from someone at my church.  I discovered Bonhoeffer for myself when I watched the documentary Hanged on a Twisted Cross, the life and times of Dietrich Bonhoeffer, which I highly, highly recommend.<br />The parts of the book which spoke to me most were the sections in chapter 1 entitled through and in Jesus Christ and in chapter 3, the section on intercession.  Here are some excerpts I love:<br />&quot;A Christian fellowship lives and exists by the intercession of its members for one another, or it collapses. I can no longer condemn or hate a brother for whom I pray, no matter how much trouble he causes me.  His face, that hitherto may have been strange and intolerable to me, is transformed in intercession into the countenance of a brother for whom Christ died, the face of a forgiven sinner......Intercession means no more than to bring our brother into the presence of God, to see him under the cross of Jesus as a poor human being and sinner in need of grace....His need and his sin become so heavy and oppressive that we feel them as our own, and we can do nothing else but pray:  Lord, do Thou, Thou alone, deal with him according to Thy severity and Thy goodness.&quot;<br />I do believe Bonhoeffer has &quot; the mind of Christ&quot; on that one.<br />Beautiful, beautiful book.<br />P.S.  I challenge you to examine and compare the lives of Noah, Daniel, and Job<br />to find out what was so pleasing to God about them.  How do their lives reflect Christ's and what about everyone else's?!!! Please see Ezekiel 14:14-23.  So I leave you with some homework, I just couldn't resist!	2004-01-20
US	27702773	R2QD90ZI8AD414	0671799320	635706820	The Prize: The Epic Quest for Oil, Money, & Power	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Timely	An extremely comprehensive and educational book covering  a topic that everyone, worldwide, should be familiar with, especially given current events in the Middle East.<br />I loved this book.<br />Basically, this book covers the entire history of the oil industry!  The story begins with  the engineers who found the undistilled rock oils in places like Pennsylvania and ends in 1992 after the Gulf War had ended.  It documents how the industry evolved during that time period, how events such as the introduction of the automobile changed it, and how eventually it came to figure largely in world politics.  The many people whose lives were intimately intertwined in oil are all mentioned: the engineers, the oil company execs, the sheiks, the kings, the presidents and the prime ministers.<br />Fascinating story.<br />I want to see the movie (PBS documentary)!	2004-01-20
US	27702773	R26HSJ3X4CE9J3	1891519050	936632765	Swords, Ships and Sugar: A History of Nevis	Books	5	7	7	N	N	One must study the past, to divine the future-Confucius	Vanderbilt educated historian, Vincent K. Hubbard, lives on Nevis, a tiny island in the leeward islands of the Caribbean sea.  This small book has a treasure-trove of information about this island's life and history.  Much happened here.  One incident on this island eventually led to Britain's abolition of slavery which was accomplished there several decades in advance before in America.  Value of goods generated there surpassed that of all of the 13 continental colonies combined in the 1700's.  There are many more gems of information besides these to be found throughout the book.  Hubbard uncovers all aspects of this island's life starting from prehistory when the island was inhabited only by lizards and seldom visited by Indians to when europeans came seeking greater fortunes and fought tooth and nail to keep it.<br />The following excerpt is my mother's favorite about a pirate \\" who chased down a warship camouflaged as a merchantman...When he came alongside the disguised vessel, he hailed, \\"Do you surrender?\\"  At that, the warship's gun ports flew open and her cannon were run out.  Undaunted, the witty privateer responded, \\"If you won't surrender, then I will!\\"<br />I read this book when I came to Nevis in 2001, in search of geneaological information about Hamiltons, but, once on the island, well, there were so many other things to explore.  There are only four very short paragraphs about Alexander Hamilton's life in this book.  The Nevis local government meets in the house he was born in and I believe the U.S. state department helps maintain the site.<br />The importance of this island in world history is summarized in a statement Hubbard provides from another book entitled War and Trade in the West Indies found on the title page of his book: \\" to ignore the west indies is to get a lopsided and unhistorical view of the mercantilist empire of the eighteenth century.\\"<br />I loved this book.	2004-01-16
US	27702773	REOVEVGO9P4KE	0060957867	637630453	Faith of My Fathers: A Family Memoir	Books	5	5	5	N	N	He Serves His Country	A great book to read for all Americans, especially for non-military families.<br />After reading this book, I began to understand the hardships and sacrifices that people in the military and their families must go through.  I also knew very little about what happened in the South Pacific during WWII, what the various strategies were, the major battles, etc. before I picked up the book.  The book was hard to put down, was very entertaining to read, at times lighthearted, at other times quite serious, especially during the time McCain was in a POW camp in Vietnam.  I liked how the stories were told, I almost felt I were close by, on the scene, and witnessing these events.  At times, the military lingo was, let me tell you, totally Greek to me, but I felt I was immersed in naval culture which made the book even more fun to read.<br />McCain is one of the very few Republicans I like; in fact, I greatly admire him!  And I really believe that no one can say that he did not serve his country.  He truly did and he continues to do so today.	2003-08-30
US	27702773	R2KZ8MDCQU2TCL	0385040032	578228351	Adversary in the House	Books	5	13	14	N	N	My Grandfather's Namesake	Eugene V. Debs is the only prisoner who ever ran for president of the U.S.!!<br />He got about a million votes too!  He was convicted by the U.S. government under the espionage act and sentenced to 10 years.<br />The title is very telling and I interpret as being a fulfillment of scripture even if Mr. Stone didn't intend it to be.  Read Daniel Chapter 2, especially verses 40-45.  Daniel is able to interpret a dream by Nebuchadnezzar which no one else could do.  Read verse 43 especially.  Many peoples would intermix through marriage.  Marriage is a great medium through which one can prey upon their enemies.  Yes, I wished Debs would have married Gloria, his childhood sweetheart.<br />I've read several of Irving Stone's books and loved every one of them.  He, like Michener, will not only tell a good story but will educate you in the process.  Both authors go to GREAT lengths to research their subjects.  At times, their books can be tiresome, at least to me, because of so much information that is unfamiliar.  But I am a slow reader who will not skim past the details.<br />The book is dear to my heart because both my paternal grandfather and greatgrandfather were railroad engineers.  My grandfather was born in 1894 and given the name Charles Debs Lumm.  Most railroaders absolutely loved Eugene V. Debs.  He was a tireless worker, defender of worker's rights.  He helped establish the 8 hour work day and managed to organize the railroad workers so that they would no longer be subject to the railroad companies' whims.  Many engineers and firemen were disabled for life or tragically killed in train wrecks in the early days of rail.  The cost, financially, for the families so affected, so many, many times, would utterly impoverish them.  Debs laid the groundwork for unions and  insurance practices from those circumstances.  However, I'm not so sure he would approve of the current state of those businesses today.<br />Debs' socialism was probably not the same as the socialism of today.  At the turn of the century, there were populist/socialist movements all over the world.<br />Railroad, for good or ill, transformed American society.  This book is a good one to read about a significant man who lived during an interesting chapter of railroad history, who may have composed most of that small chapter himself.of today.  At the turn of the century, there were populist/socialist movements all over the world.<br />Railroad, for good or ill, transformed American society.  This book is a good one to read about a significant man who lived during an interesting chapter of railroad history, who may have composed most of that small chapter himself.	2003-08-30
US	27702773	R2F2IG0RKFGC42	0884117197	987502725	Forty Days of Musa Dagh	Books	5	22	28	N	N	These are a People Whom God Has Blessed	The book is a bit long, but it's definitely a must read.  Not because it's the best novel you'll ever read, but because within the tale are known facts about the Armenian genocide and how the turkish government at the time brought it about.  One powerful way in which the young turks did so, was by the written word within the daily newspapers which convinced the turkish people that the Armenians were criminals, thieves and terrorists.  Armed with those false facts, some of the turks felt justified by plundering the Armenians, dispossessing them, and marching them all into the desert wilderness of Syria and Iraq.  No time to pack.  I've also skimmed through many books in my library about the genocide written by eyewitnesses and survivors.  I don't want to even mention some of the things that were done to them.  Talk about terrorism.<br /><br />I stumbled upon this book in the library by accident because the title caught my eye.  Musa Dagh means mountain of Moses in Syriac and the forty refers to the number of days Moses was upon the mountain receiving the torah.  The book is written by a jew who fled Nazi Germany with his wife.  I believe the battle that the main character Gabriel Bagradian fought was somewhat based on Masada, a battle on a mountain near the dead sea in Israel where only a handful of plucky, jewish zealots held off a whole legion of Roman troops in 66 A.D.  (The actual date was April 15, A.D. 73.  The Jewish rebellion began in 66 A.D.  See The Zealots of Masada by Moshe Pearlman).  Also, if you read Josephus, the first century jewish historian whose accounts are the only written proof that Jesus really existed, you'll find where he documents that a tribe of jews designated Bagratidae settled in turkey.<br /><br />In reading this book, you'll learn many facts about the Armenian people.  They live near mount Ararat which is the mountain that Noah's ark came to rest upon after the flood.  They have long been a christian nation, probably the oldest.  Interestingly, they broke off from the mainstream christian church about 300 A.D. when Constantine declared christianity the state religion of Rome, but I digress somewhat because that tidbit is not in the book.<br /><br />I love the Armenian people.  There are many Armenians in Massachusetts.  One of my neighbors, an old widowed woman told me about her husband's family.  They were all murdered, shot by the turks when they invaded his home.  He was only a small boy at the time and saw them kill his entire family.  I've gotten to know other Armenians and hold them all in the highest esteem.  They don't just walk the walk and talk the talk of christianity.  One woman I know, I'm sure had been fasting because she was so pale and thin.  She claimed she had been sick, but I'm sure she washed her face and anointed herself, shut the door and prayed.  In speaking about these sweet people and praying for them, I am always moved to tears.<br /><br />These are a people who truly keep the commands of Jesus.<br /><br />Of course this genocide was only a prelude to what we know began to happen in 1933.  The railroads of the eastern hemisphere had finally been perfected to deliver their human cargo to what the world thought was their final destination.<br /><br />One million Armenians left this world to join their maker during what was once called the Great War.  No numbers exist as to how many lives were spared.  I, myself, am thankful that the genocide did not succeed in its mission, otherwise, I would not have been blessed by my friendships with these people.  During that war, I've been told by a French citizen, that rivers of blood flowed down the streets of France. My grandfather Charles Debs Lumm was a private in the U.S. army and was one of the many fresh recruits in 1917 who helped bring that war to an end.  He never talked of what happened in the army even when asked, but he could not stand to visit hospitals, did everything within his power to avoid them.  He always faintedat the sight of blood.<br /><br />Theologians should read this book to settle a much contested issue.  It contains, I believe, the best explanation and understanding of what the blasphemy of the holy spirit is, the only sin that Christ says God will never forgive.  In the book, that explanation comes from the mouth of a muslim cleric deeply moved when he sees the Armenians' tribulations.<br /><br />This book was a revelation to me.  Please read it for yourself.<br /><br />As a postscript, I must add that I find it frightening when popular rock stars name their songs after terrorist organizations, e.g. a song entitled The Young Turks by Rod Stewart.  I like his songs, but I think you'll understand how I feel and think he should be more thoughtful next time.read this book to settle a much contested issue.  It contains, I believe, the best explanation and understanding of what the blasphemy of the holy spirit is, the only sin that Christ says God will never forgive.  In the book, that explanation comes from the mouth of a muslim cleric deeply moved when he sees the Armenians' tribulations.        This book was a revelation to me.  Please read it for yourself.    As a postscript, I must add that I find it frightening when popular rock stars name their songs after terrorist organizations, e.g. a song entitled The Young Turks by Rod Stewart.  I like his songs, but I think you'll understand how I feel and think he should be more thoughtful next time.	2003-08-30
US	27702773	R2WBKEVDAF6C50	0684863316	419002241	Alexander Hamilton, American	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Not the best biography on Hamilton	I put the book down when I read what Mr. Brookehiser wrote about Alexander's father James, that he was a ne'er do well.  I have visited Nevis, where Alexander was born and may be directly descended from Alexander Hamilton, Laird of the Grange, Scotland, Alexander's namesake and grandfather.  I suggest to Mr. Brookehiser that he read Vincent Hubbard's book about the history of Nevis.  The sugar cane business underwent boom and bust periods whose profits were intimately linked to supporting the war machines of individual european nations. (Nevis's income supported Great Britain's forces, in particular, its navy).  James Hamilton's lack of success economically may well not be a fault of his own.<br />One must be very careful in writing about Hamilton because in actuality, he was very much hated by Adams, Jefferson, and much that has been written about him historically is not accurate, because it was not accurate, strongly one-sided, at the time during which he lived.  I must say, that hatred of Hamilton continues today which spurred me to read more about him with an eye on finding reasons why my own family would be hated so much.<br />In fairness to Mr. Brookehiser, much is not known about James.  And for those who want tabloid type details on any of Americas's founding fathers and are disappointed that that information is not supplied by the biographers, they must understand the types of information that were available at the time (mostly letters in the eighteen century), that could shed more light upon the persons being studied. <br />I prefer Forrest McDonald's biography because it is written by a historian, someone who is a Professor, whose focus has been on early American history, and whose work is carefully researched.  His endnotes, revealing his source material, indicate how he consulted personal letters and even read all of Alexander's sources of information in order to try to understand how he thought.<br />I am wary of biographers with more experience in journalism writing historical biographies on people who lived before the twentieth century.  Mainly because, in the modern century, one can very easily reconstruct the context in which actions, decisions were done and made, and a source's validity is more quickly verified or not.  The problem, however, is that the journalist's story is better told and read by the public, and as such, will be the more popularized versions.<br />But, for that last statement of mine, I am very much a black sheep.  What is most important to me, is that the truth be told, even if it is not popular.  That, I believe is a Hamiltonian trait that Hamilton and I do share, and I must add, as a biologist by profession, that it is in both of our genes.<br />I am not impressed by the 500 glowing reviews of John Adams and his modern journalistic biographer, Mr. McCullough.<br />Better to have 10 or 20 commentaries on a well-researched, truthful, work of art than a 1000 on a sweet sounding, well-written, but false, piece of junk.  <br />A good read can be a bad book.<br />Please see my review dated 04/09/04.  I'm responsible for the contents and any problems/misunderstandings it may have generated.	2003-08-19
