US	27769608	R3VS2CEW89U87U	0151010749	382155161	The Ghost Writer	Books	3	9	11	N	N	Shades of greatness, falls short in disappointing fashion	This book had me riveted for the first 100 or so pages. There was a growing sense of mystery and a deep unravelling going on. A shy and sensitive young boy growing up in rural Australia with a repressive mother and avoidant father has been deeply influenced by his mother's colorful tales of life in pre-WWII England. His discovery of a photograph leads to years of secrecy and avoidance from his mother about the true nature of her past. In the meantime, the boy has established a passionate and obsessive pen-pal relationship with a young girl in England who has been orphaned and crippled by a horrible car accident.    The story races along and even continues at this pace with its segue into a story-within-a-story (a short story written by the boy's grandmother or great-aunt, I can't remember which, and does it really matter?). Then by the second and third short stories within story, something fell apart for me and I lost interest. I am not one who has been raised on a diet of Dean Koontz or Stephen King, either, so my sudden disquiet had nothing to do with those kind of false expectations. I read literary works, and I believe Harwood was onto something potentially great here, but it fell away in the execution, with too much delay in story development and, frankly, too much detail at times. The detail got in the way of the story a great many times for me.     In the end, I found that I cared little for the outcome of the unravelling mysteries, and more for my own sense of closure at coming to a completion of the novel. It is not normally like that for me, and I feel like I either missed something or the book failed to capture me beyond its excellent beginnings.    Having said that, a promising debut, very literary in the writing, and I will be curious to see what Harwood does next.	2005-09-13
US	27769608	R2OA3AE757K7HY	0679731148	669003939	A Year in Provence	Books	4	4	4	N	N	If you didn't want to go to Provence before....you will now!	This is one of those books that would make for great beach reading, or perhaps by the side of the pool, sipping an ice-cold alcoholic beverage or maybe a glass of red wine. In fact, while reading, I was driven to grab a bottle of red, a loaf of bread and dish of olive oil and seat myself outside in the sun. Such a setting only enhances the sensory enjoyment of the writing and the apparent loveliness of the area it describes. Peter Mayle writes with a lot of humour and insight about a (somewhat) idyllic year in Provence, surrounded by a cast of oddly attractive characters, and his occasionally mentioned wife, who although is much a supporting \\"character\\" is clearly at one with the author in his exploration and sense of adventure.  <br /> <br />Provence is one of those places that I dearly hope to visit one day, and this book only served to increase my appetite for the culinary and cultural pleasures that await me when I finally do. While not overly romanticizing the area with endless accounts of excessive eating and drinking and seamless and memorable experiences with \\"the locals\\" (in fact many such contacts with the tradesmen, local people and tourists are frustrating and exhausting), for this reader, a desire to mimic the author and move to an 18th century farm house and do major renovations remains undiminished. Well, at least in my dreams. Until then, I have this book.  <br /> <br />Mayle is a hero to many, I am sure, who secretly harbour the desire to do as he and his wife did, and throw their all into making a fantastic life for themselves in an unfamiliar and exotic location. Whether it is Provence or somewhere else, such abandon is attractive and begs to be emulated. <br /> <br />A fun read, instantly enjoyable, and transporting in its descriptions of the food, the wine, the people and the spirit of Provence.	2005-07-23
US	27769608	RC7LQW0ZDYAAA	0451208641	730789518	Black Like Me	Books	4	7	8	N	N	A study in race relations	I read this book in the early 1980s when I was a teenager and recently picked it up again. While not having quite the impact and eloquence of Richard Wright's \\"Black Boy\\" or anything by Ralph Ellison, this is an interesting contribution to the essays and commentaries on race in the Deep South in the early 1960's. <br /> <br />The premise is something of a gimmick in some ways, although very seriously intentioned, but one that works like this: a middle aged white man, who also happens to be a writer and commentator on race, \\"blackens\\" his skin with medical pigmentation procedures and stain. It all sounds quite rudimentary, but it appears that this combination allowed him to pass for a black man for a period of about six weeks in the deepest parts of the American South. He actually switches back and forth between white and black society over that period, and the differences in treatment are astounding, but also expected.  <br /> <br />While this is a useful part of writings of the 1960s race issues,  I could not help feeling that the plight of the black race was deeper of course than Griffin was able to go: he could always opt out of his situation and reappear as a white man. While he experienced some of the feelings of hopelessness and violation that was part of the daily life of the black person in 1960, he also could escape it at any time. This book is arguably superficial in that respect since it deals with race on an emotional level - how Griffin felt, how people felt about him, what he experienced while temporarily black. While this is a valiant and noble effort, I doubt that anyone who has not completely walked for a lifetime in the shoes of a race victim can truly feel the impact of racism. I say this as someone who is white. In the end, I admire what Griffin set out to expose, and he probably has done much good by so doing, but the impact to me was considerably less than from reading Wright or Ellison.	2005-07-21
US	27769608	RG3LOA0VYIGS6	0140053204	690446916	Travels with Charley in Search of America	Books	4	2	2	N	N	One of our greatest writers...a solid and fascinating work	This is not really your typical John Steinbeck work; it is autobiographical in that these things actually happened, \\"these things\\" being a trek that Steinbeck makes, in his late fifties, from his home state of Maine, westward across the United States, then back southeast and up again, always alone except for his faithful and intelligent french poodle, Charley.     There is no plot in the conventional sense, other than that of allowing Steinbeck to express his deep love for his country, his desire to explore it in a kind of hybrid/conditioned truck/sleeper vehicle, and his inevitable eventual sense of disillusionment with parts of the troubled land, the south in particular, but also with the burgeoning wastefulness and decay of the cities, among other aspects of the land. Not to say that this is a depressing work, although certainly, his encounters with some of the ugliest expressions of racism in the deep south are deeply sad (New Orleans in particular, where a bizarre ritual of middle-aged women publicly spitting invective and hatred towards black schoolchildren on their way to school provokes Steinbeck to confront some bigoted and despicable people). He is a true northerner, both in attitude and love for that part of the country. He barely hides his distaste for that time in the south (describing it as a \\"troubled place and a people caught in a jam\\").     His descriptions of many of the emerging trends of the country - the decay of the downtowns, urban sprawl, ethnocentrism (his passages on Texas are fascinating), are both quaint and prescient. One thing has changed little, and that is the ebullience of the American character, how it is viewed by other cultures (Steinbeck reflects on the attitude of Europeans in particular towards Americans), and a push for growth and change. Steinbeck leaves it to the reader to decide whether many of the things he describes are good things, often holding his opinions in a certain check, but throughout it is clear he is a passionate and outstanding liberal mind, whose reflections on the strange, complex but wonderful country of America are as relevant today as they were in 1960.	2005-07-17
US	27769608	R2PJJ8ZQ9UOJ7W	0679720200	882163178	The Stranger	Books	5	0	6	N	N	An undisputed classic, worth re-reading often	A short read (one can read it in a couple of hours or less), this is a book that I encountered in the same way that perhaps millions of others did, as prescribed high school reading (in my case in the mid-1980's). I remember being moved by it as a teenager; I re-read it again this week and found it an even more resonant and disturbing read as an adult.     Because this is written from a first person perspective, the story engenders a level of sympathy for what is really an unsympathetic character; one who acts without forethought, passion, or regret. The central character, Meursault, is carried along by those around him, and seems to have an emotional void when it comes to his recently deceased mother, his loving girlfriend, and his own feelings. He eventually kills a man, and is charged, tried, convicted and sentenced to the guillotine. Despite that fact that the murder is not in dispute, the trial is prejudiced by character witnesses who provide information about Meursault that really has no bearing on his actions.     The novel left me feeling unsettled towards a man who seems not to act in a way, or believe in those things that society deems conventional (ie. to express grief, to fall before God begging forgiveness for his wrongful deeds, to express any kind of remorse). Society rejects him because of this, and that fact alone made me feel sympathetic to him. The prosecutor calls him a monster. This is no monster; certainly no serial killer.     The morality is murky here. That is why it is great fiction, and why it will continue to be pondered and discussed for years to come.	2005-06-15
US	27769608	RF3VH00HD2O4R	0060930187	802369838	The Bell Jar: A Novel (Perennial Classics)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A life laid bare	Sylvia Plath was one of those mysterious figures in twentieth century literature whose work I had never read...until now. This is one of those rare novels that is arresting from the first page to the last, not least because of its obvious autobiographical nature, in its thinly veiled descriptions of characters drawn from Plath's life during a six month period in her early twenties, primarily in the character of Esther herself. Plath indicated after the novel was written that this work was autobiographical, with only the addition of a little fiction to give it a little more colour. We witness the descent into herself of a compelling literary character, one in whom the seeds of melancholy reside deeply. The society girl who does not quite fit in, not feeling fully connected with her friends, her boyfriend, or herself. One who has a mother who is remote, a father who died while she was a young girl; a younger brother who is absent. She disconnects further, and we see the marks of a deep depression descend on her, as she starts to withdraw from life into her solitude, and a wretched one at that. Depression and sleeplessness and hopelessness overtake her and she goes through the motions of therapy, treatment, being committed to an asylum, electro-shock treatment, a pervasive obsession with death and suicide, and ultimately, several attempts to end her life. This would be great fiction if indeed the sadness of its direct parallels to Plath's life were not present. Some of her descriptions are deeply disturbing, in a way that I have only otherwise encountered in someone like Augusten Burroughs (a present day writer of a similarly harrowing memoir, \\"Running With Scissors\\"). In any event, this novel is further truth that some of history's finest writers and artists are also among those most tortured and unhappy.     Not a happy read at all, rather one that left me with an overwhelming sadness, but filled with appreciation for its beauty and strength. Despite her early departure from this earth (Plath ended her life shortly after the publication of \\"The Bell Jar\\"), this work, along with her collections of poetry, remains and keeps her alive to those who read her words.	2005-06-13
US	27769608	R3O56B08JRC9KH	0349106630	794618391	The Last Tycoon	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Should this have been left alone?	I am sure it must have been tempting as a publisher or one in whom the rights to publish resided, to get excited about an unfinished work from a master with the mystique and cache of F. Scott Fitzgerald. In this case, while there is certainly merit in the writing, and some rewards to be had from the reading of this incomplete work by an acknowledged master, it is debatable whether many readers have been satisfied by reading it. I was not one of them. As always, Fitzgerald introduces characters both rich and shallow, and makes fascinating observations of an era which most of us find fascinating. But it felt incomplete, all the way through, not just at the end, and perhaps Fitzgerald may have polished or edited it a great deal more had he survived to finish it.  <br /> <br />I will stick with Gatsby and Tender is the Night and put this one down to experience.	2005-05-23
US	27769608	R2FLOZ0HMOXP30	0142001414	14543326	After the Plague: Stories	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Every story is a potboiler	TC Boyle knows how to get inside his characters, and he does it quickly so that you feel involved with each story from the outset. His stories in this collection are at times dark and macabre, other times moving, but almost always deeply human and richly satisfying in their telling. He has the ability to turn sympathetic characters into sinister ones within the turn of a page - Killing Babies is one such example, with a seemingly normal pair of college kids committing the unthinkable.  <br /> <br />I liken TC Boyle's style to that of early Ian McEwan, with a California twist. We get the seamy side of human behaviour, while never departing from the characters' central humanity. Desperate human beings find each other, others find a loneliness at their core that they hadn't given voice to, still others give in to their dark voices.  <br /> <br />These are not necessarily cautionary tales. I don't believe Boyle has any such agenda, and I am thankful for that. What he simply does is explore the human psyche and the oddities of human behaviour. For that reason, this is definitely a worthwhile collection of stories.	2005-04-25
US	27769608	R38TYTC1GRZ1CI	0679748997	412488320	Zuckerman Unbound	Books	4	13	14	N	N	More Zuckerman zaniness	In this installment of the Zuckerman story, we observe a writer who has reached the pinnacle of American celebrity recognition - a front cover on Life magazine. After publication of \\"Carnovsky\\" his polarizing, provocative, entirely sixties novel, he is now recognized in buses, deli's and on the street. He is the envy of millions, the target of others, and an object of desire among women. All he could have ever wanted, but here we see an ordinary man thrust reluctantly into the spotlight and deeply conflicted about his place there. His newfound wealth fits like an oversized suit, and he gets accosted by strangers on a regular basis.  <br /> <br />Ultimately, this book is one of realization that despite his new status as a millionaire celebrity writer, he has lost his connection with his family and his past in Newark. While romanticizing Newark, or at least revealing it to the masses, and stoking the imagination of those who believe \\"Carnovsky\\" to be autobiographical and about his family, he has lost the respect of his father and brother.  <br /> <br />Roth pokes fun at those who equate a fictional character with its author, causing us to resist the temptation to compare Nathan Zuckerman with Roth. That is too irresistible a conclusion, and probably too obvious. Roth appeals to the voyeur within us, while leaving us wondering about the lines between fact and fiction.  <br /> <br />Another highly entertaining, funny and readable work by MR Roth.	2005-04-22
US	27769608	R3CO9PY66XWD8H	0385511809	740331338	Saturday: A novel	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Not his best, but full of sentiment and insight	I have been eagerly awaiting this, the latest work by one of the most skilled and insightful writers of our time.  <br /> <br />Others have summarized the storyline, but suffice to say, it involves one very long day in the life of Henry Perowne, London neurosurgeon, with much going on in both the foreground and background, much reflection, and events (the protests against the impending war in Iraq being one of them) which will have most readers reflecting on their own position. <br /> <br />This story has much of the trademark McEwan intelligence and suffocating atmosphere, with some distinct departures from his typical range of characters, namely that: <br /> <br />1) this work is set in the present, or at least very recent past; <br />2) similarly, this is a topical work, of relevance to issues that remain looming and unresolved for many people in this world; <br />3) most surprisingly, there is a closeness and cleaving between the main character and his wife that is uncynical, unaffected and true to its core (certainly not the case in most of McEwan's other work). <br />4) it is hopeful and somewhat optimistic, full of sentimental realism, if that phrase is even permissible. While there are definite reflections on man's ephemeral place in the world, McEwan has created a character who is reflective and insightful, articulate and moody, yet family oriented, protective and loving. <br /> <br />McEwan has done a great deal of homework on the medical conditions and phraseology present here. That is very evident. Sometimes the detail seems superfluous; the language at times I also felt to be a little more verbose than necessary. McEwan interestingly has his character give a mental critique on the literary style of Henry James, as one who works endlessly around a point before making it, or making it in an obtuse way. I have to admit that more than once I felt McEwan could be guilty of the same thing. <br /> <br />My respect for McEwan remains intact, and he has certainly attempted something great here. That it falls a little short does not detract from his position with today's literary giants.	2005-04-19
US	27769608	R3V6T8SEF1HX9S	0679748261	74645873	Goodbye, Columbus : And Five Short Stories (Vintage International)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Great debut, beginning of a great career	This is Philip Roth's first acclaimed work, a novella about a Jewish twenty-something and the yearnings of young love, and five other short stories. Roth always touches on something completely exceptional by its normality, and tells a story in a gripping, intelligent and thoroughly honest manner. The title story is about a young man who out of youtful desire starts a passionate affair with a Jewish girl, knowing nothing about her or her family. He ingratiates himself into her life and family, while still remaining somewhat elusive and anonymous. He has no real family ties, with parents living thousands of miles away and an aunt in Newark whom he is trying to break away from. It is a fascinating story, providing yet another glimpse into Jewish identity and alienation, of which Roth is one of fiction's greatest exponents.  <br /> <br />The remaining stories are also outstanding; remarkably different from the title story, but each providing something of the present day (well, 1950's when the book was written) struggles with identity experienced by the post-WWII American Jew, ranging from a 13 year old boy undergoing training for his bar mitzvah and questioning issues of faith and tempting fate; to a Jewish military sargeant conflicted about how to fairly treat Jewish members of his military battalion.  <br /> <br />One can almost taste the honesty, it is so thick. That is what I love about Roth. He has no agenda other than the accurate descriptions of humanity, which in his experiences happen to be mostly Jewish, in all its failings, idiosyncrasies and conflict.  <br /> <br />I eagerly await the next installment in my Roth-provided education.	2005-04-16
US	27769608	RDZ6BNXT2LSO4	0679749020	470710434	The Anatomy Lesson	Books	4	9	13	N	N	The oncoming decline of Zuckerman	Nathan Zuckerman again inhabits this work by Philip Roth, and is now forty years old. He has enjoyed success as a writer, has been married three times, has complicated and varied encounters with women, and most shockingly, has suffered under chronic pain in his body to such an extent that he cannot write, and can barely function. As a result, he immerses himself deeply into a life of Percodan, vodka and delusion. He is racked with pain about the death of both parents, particularly his mother, and feels the customary Jewish guilt that their deaths were somehow helped along by his writing. His brother will not speak to him. Others sweep in and out of his life. People avoid him for fear of ending up in his next book. The one constant is the pain in his body.  <br /> <br />This novel is a great blend of pathos, dark humour and some honest and moving reflections on family. There are some wonderful passages where Nathan is going through his mother's things after her death, and recalling his childhood and his mother's tender and optimistic love for him.  <br /> <br />I found Roth's descriptions of Nathan's impersonations or appropriations of his nemesis (Jewish book critic and commentator Milton Appels) a little long-winded but they were designed to offend and annoy, so they accomplished their purpose, with Roth's typically brilliant style uncompromised. We get great insights into the nature of Jewish \\"political correctness\\" and how that can stifle creativity and thought. Roth is hilarious when he demonstrates that Zuckerman has no real political agenda, even though the Jewish thinkers want him to. Perhaps this is reflective of Roth's experience after his early successes.  <br /> <br />\\"Look, I obviously don't want to see the Jews destroyed. That wouldn't make too much sense. But I am not an authority on Israel. I'm an authority on Newark. Not even on Newark. On the Weequahic section of Newark. If the truth be known, not even on the whole of the Weequahic setion. I don't even go below Bergen Street.\\"  We get Roth's trademark originality and hilarity in large doses.  <br /> <br />Not many writers can achieve the dual result of making a reader weep and laugh at the same time. Roth does, and his is a talent that few possess. Another great novel in a rich body of work.	2005-04-14
US	27769608	R2LNELJYH81SIN	0679748989	655716976	The Ghost Writer	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Highly original, vintage Roth	I have read Roth's novels about his supposed alter-ego, Nathan Zuckerman, out of order, starting with \\"I Married A Communist\\". A common theme is the idolizing by Zuckerman of a real but ultimately flawed mentor-type person, who represents on the surface the best ideals of literature or politics, but has human shortcomings that belittle their grand objectives. In this case, the \\"mentor\\" to the Zuckerman protege is E I Lonoff, an acclaimed but reclusive Jewish writer who has fled from those who would tend to denigrate art in its purity, to a remote farmhouse in Massachussets with his long-suffering wife, Hope (an ironic name if there ever was one).     There are obvious tensions in the Lonoff-Hope relationship which Zuckerman, in his mix of high-minded literary explorations, comes across vicariously, then somewhat voyeuristically. Zuckerman is no interloper in Lonoff's life; he is a gifted wrtier, starting to enjoy some minor acclaim himself, who has come to learn at the feet of a master at Lonoff's invitation. He is in his early twenties, and trying to distinguish art from reality, and a safe and happy upbringing juxtaposed with his sense of anger and rejection of that same family life. I really enjoyed Roth's explorations of Zuckerman's standing up (even if misguidedly or idealistically) for the purity of his art and rejecting the \\"better\\" advice of his elders who want him to dilute it in the name of the Jewish legacy or a certain mythology about the purity of American Jews.     This is a short, novella type book, but there is much going on here, from Zuckerman's projections towards Lonoff, his obsessions with the so-called \\"writer life\\", his imaginings about the mystery female house-guest at the Lonoff's residence (the Anne Frank hallucination is particularly enjoyable), his desire to detach himself from his traditional upbringing, his realization of the personal sacrifices involved in being a writer, and how the gifted among us can still be deeply insecure and avoid contact with the real world, all in the name of art. This is a first rate book by a wonderful writer.	2005-04-09
US	27769608	RD88QCC9PJLQ8	0743271521	217051879	Will They Ever Trust Us Again?: Letters From the War Zone	Books	4	20	25	N	N	Soldiers in their own words	Michael Moore has long given voice to the voiceless, whether it is the outsourced workers at a Payday candy bar factory, the un-unionized workers at Borders, the down-sized workers at GM, the underaged workers in Indonesia; you get the picture. While his style started as an in-your-face shock type of reporting, he has evolved into a thoughtful and impassioned (and tireless) voice of reason and dissent in a political and cultural environment that eschews dissent or debate. There should always be room in our world for the likes of Michael Moore - in the tradition of Mark Twain or Thomas Paine. <br /> <br />This book is so valuable. In keeping with his mandate of giving voice to the voiceless, Moore publishes letters from rank and file (and a couple more highly placed) soldiers in Iraq, their families, and ex-servicepeople. Most if not all are dedicated military people who simply voice their frustration, guilt, discomfort, and agony over the war in Iraq, and their disenchantment with our political leaders. Many of the stories are disturbing; all are heart-breaking - I don't believe that this collection loses any of its power or impact in post-election (both US and Iraq) 2005. We would do well to learn from them and   reflect again on the madness of war and the motivations of our political leaders.	2005-04-04
US	27769608	RY7CFVQ2WWDQ7	1401300103	578404904	All I Did Was Ask: Conversations with Writers, Actors Musicians, and Artists	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Still fresh on paper	Terry Gross has that rare gift in an interviewer - an ability to be probing and thoughtful at the same time. She blends curiosity with compassion, and is able to confront without being in the least bit offensive. She is truly my favourite interviewer in any medium. I was not sure whether the tone and feel of her show would transfer well into print, but this collection of interviews (which I hope is just the beginning in a series, since she has done so many fine interviews over the years) highlights both the quality of the guests that she is able to get on, and the unique perspectives she is able to draw out of them, time and time again.  <br /> <br />There is a mix of the salacious (Gene Simmons - what a jerk) and those who are salubrious and uplifting (John Updike, Chris Rock and others) by their humanity. Terry's interviews usually evoke in me a feeling of being a dinner guest listening in, and although we miss some of the inflection, the spirit is here in spades.	2005-04-02
US	27769608	RZ2IVAQX03LNP	014023828X	480160740	The Tortilla Curtain (Penguin Books with Reading Guides)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Literate storytelling, politically challenging	This is not a book about politics, per se. It is, however, about the disintegration of one man's idealism in the face of cultural reality. Delaney, the main character, is a California liberal, wealthy and privileged but idealistic and high-minded. He is a nature writer who stays at home in his Topango Canyon mansion writing columns, while his go-getter realtor wife makes a swathe of money moving property.  <br /> <br />Delaney encounters Candido, and some other troublesome Mexican illegals - they upset his perfect calm, intruding into the canyon, threatening the wildlife and the tranquility of his existence. What starts out as annoyance graduates into violent hostility and we are left with a man with broken ideals and overwhelming bitterness. The transformation in Delaney is distressing and real. The day to day existence of Candido and his young wife America, horrifyingly basic - eating out of dumpsters, stealing neighbourhood cats for food, living out in the open in tattered sleeping bags.  <br /> <br />One does not have to live in California to appreciate the culture and survival clash eloquently described here. Boyle brings it right home in his inimitably devastating style.	2005-03-28
US	27769608	R3UEXCYFRLZDJE	0375707212	870258224	I Married a Communist: American Trilogy (2)	Books	5	2	4	N	N	I would give it six stars if I could	This is writing at its best. Philip Roth masterfully encapsulates a human aspect of a very dark period of American history, the finger-pointing era of McCarthyism and Red-baiting in the 1950's, where lives were destroyed and careers were made (those of right-wing politicians). This is a brilliant story but also one with a great deal of heart and emotion, as we witness the destruction of a flawed but passionate life, Ira Ringold, but perhaps more poignantly, the quiet but fierce anger of his older brother, English teacher Murray, as he revisits that period.  <br /> <br />Murray is the real hero here, a story which takes place in his recounting in 1997 to Nathan Zuckerman (a one time protege of both Ira and Murray, and now himself in his mid-sixties), of the period in which their lives were irreparably changed.  <br /> <br />What is, is. Ira was a communist. Murray was not, although his left-wing political beliefs are no secret. These labels do not matter, despite the \\"meaning\\" that they had attached to them at the relevant time. Roth masterfully reveals the heart of the story in pieces, so that our allegiances move from the obvious object of our fascination, Ira, to Murray. Would that society was filled with people as lucid and passionate as Murray at ninety years old, so clear-headed about his brother's mistakes, and so self-effacing in his recounting of them. So uncompromising in his honesty and right in his convictions. Yet even he has a tendency to rue his choices, for example having taught literature for ten thankless years in an inner city school and then having his wife gunned down in their neighborhood during their latter years.  <br /> <br />I was both moved and provoked by this story. It is surely one of the best I have ever read. While I may have to admit that those of us who are oriented towards the political left will probably find the most fulfilment in its reading, this book is pure magic and you will be richly rewarded by it if you persist through itsdifficulties of language and development. Do not deprive yourself of this literary treat.	2005-03-23
US	27769608	R13LON1WMECQ06	038531387X	40474853	Deliverance (Modern Library 100 Best Novels)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	A story with raw, visceral power	Most of us are very familiar with the movie of the same title, which rightly stands as an early 1970's classic. Both the screenplay of the film and this powerful novel were written by James Dickey, which promised for me that the novel and film would not deviate too far from one another. That is true, but the book carries some treasure and power that the film, by its very nature, cannot convey. Much of this is in the evolution of the main characters as described in the first person by one of the characters, and in his descriptions of the vast and unforgiving woods that surround the four main characters, businessmen set out for a weekend of canoeing, hunting and wrestling with nature. They anticipate campfires, guitar playing, steaks, beer and deer. Instead they are set upon by both the river and its primal people - or at least two of its animalistic inhabitants.  <br /> <br />What follows reads like a fable; a struggle between man and beast (in the form of the mountain men who meddle with them), and man and his instincts for survival and self-preservation, mostly in the person of Ed Gentry, who becomes the man he always wanted to be, supplanting even his hero and best friend, Lewis Medlock, in the game of survival. The two other men of the foursome fade into obscurity - one at the bottom of the river (later turned into a dam in a sweeping symbol of man's conquering of the harsh environment); the other, the one who suffered much at the hands of the mountain men, beset by a kind of lesser species degeneration, his usefulness having expired about halfway into the story, and now seen with disdain, even hatred, by his former friend, Ed.  <br /> <br />This is a book not for the squeamish or sensitive. It gets at the heart of man's visions about himself, and how one deals with the joint feelings of overcoming and survival while wrestling with a guilty conscience and a kind of closing up within himself. It is a powerful story and terrifying at its core.	2005-03-19
US	27769608	R1U1W00FL3IFUD	0142003387	398568910	July, July	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Rueful and ironic, entertaining writing	Tim O'Brien has a corner on the market of tough-guy Vietnam vet lit. From \\"The Things They Carried\\" to \\"In the Lake of the Woods\\" and much of his other work, post-Vietnam misunderstanding, bitterness and regret are recurring themes. While \\"July, July\\" is not specifically about that tragic war, Vietnam is central to the themes of a thirty year reunion looking back on the events of the late 1960's and forward. We encounter the lives of several disparate individuals whose lives intersect and deviate from one another. None of these have been spared unhappiness or hardship. From the class clown, to the popular girl, to the popular guy, the radical, the mature go-ahead type, the obese schlub, and so on, we get a broad cross-section of the class of '69 from this typical Minnesota school.     The one criticism I have is that at times it felt like O'Brien was painting some of his characters with broad strokes, and this tended to create single-layered characterizations, rather than multi-dimensional characters. Some of the couplings that developed between the characters did not seem believable. The book could have been 200 pages longer and it wouldn't have suffered from it. Other than that, it was very entertaining, imaginative, and passionate. I find that O'Brien writes most convincingly when he transports us to the swamps of Vietnam, and it was true here. A good book from a skilled author.	2005-03-14
US	27769608	RS0YFTXUUHGE3	0156011840	10521068	A Hole in the Earth	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Very real, recognizable characters and highly readable	Reading this novel was the literary equivalent of getting to know a friend. The first person narrator, Henry Porter, allows you to get to know him, while coming to know and understand himself, as the story and plotline develop. He is mostly difficult to like, and at times, seemingly not worth the effort to get to know, but his story is so compulsively readable that curiosity draws you further into his sad and lonely life. And then, through a series of difficult events, and through his need to confront himself and his emotions, rather than escaping to a life of denial and endless wanderings, we come to see the \\"man\\" within, the redemptive and truly loving qualities that he possesses, and finally, his willingness to let go and commit himself to relationship - with his daughter, with his family - in place of loneliness.  <br /> <br />All of Henry's life has been one of avoidance and heartbreak; not living up to his potential; generally taking the easy road. This is a story where a character moves by small degrees. Despite some catastrophic events in his life, no sweeping changes occur to him emotionally until the end, and certainly not overnight. But the character is further along emotionally by the end of the story than at the beginning. And that is what makes this story so real, so compelling and wonderful. It felt real - Bausch writes a heck of a story, and his kindness and recognition of humanity and our struggles makes this a first class story that I hope will not be overlooked.	2005-03-10
US	27769608	R2JQWWXRM8U9C3	0140243933	342677195	They Whisper	Books	3	6	12	N	N	Stylish prose, but disappointing on the whole	I truly enjoyed a couple of other Butler books; his Pulitzer Prize winning collection of shorts was awesome, and \\"The Deep Green Sea\\" a well-crafted and compelling story. But now I feel, after reading this mess, that there is something particularly vain and narcissistic about this writing, despite its stylistic creativity (if one admires long, stream of consciousness sentences, no chapters and very little in the way of breaks in story).    Basically, its a book about sex, and one man's recognition of the role of women in his life, spanning all the women he has been with and the woman he is with, to all women he has ever encountered. Butler is transparent in his wish to develop dramatic build-up in the way he writes a sentence (some of which are 500 words long), but it becomes droll and predictable. The great insights that Ira Holloway supposedly has about himself and women are diminished by his vanity and ultimately, disrepect for women, although I am sure Butler (and the character) believe it is quite the opposite with respect to Ira.     I would put it a notch above the Bridges of Madison County guy (ironically named Robert ---- ---- also), but that isn't a compliment. Butler can do better than this - I will have to read something else of his now to offset the disappointment I felt with this novel.	2005-03-04
US	27769608	RH9KTYAF430K9	0060571837	17029087	Wives & Lovers: Three Short Novels	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Remarkable	This was a truly remarkable group of three separate and unrelated, yet equally compelling stories. Each one touched on something magical about the human spirit, all while exposing some of our deepest emotional idiosyncrasies and disconnections. In each he captures something of the wonder of human relationships, particularly marriage, with its conflict of happiness and disappointments; expectations and resignation; resolute faithfulness versus emotional wanderings. <br /> <br />Where some might see the stories as melancholy or depressing, I saw a certain triumph in each one. All were written with a great sense of humanity and realism, highlighting ordinariness, even mundaneness, within multi-dimensional characters who are fully human yet beautiful in their failures and inconsistencies. A great collection and a very worthwhile read.	2005-03-02
US	27769608	R3BL7Q89Z962JO	0375415491	920494045	The Light of Day	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Good, but not great	I think Swift was striving for something subconscious and suffocating with this story, and he accomplished this to a degree, yet I did not feel any great level of empathy or identification with the main characters.  <br /> <br />Having said that, it was written in a particularly stylish way, employing short, punchy chapters, mostly operating within the mind of George Webb, private eye, who is drawn into an area of grey that is an extension of what his profession is intrinsically concerned with. There are no \\"happy\\" endings in his line of work, which consists mostly of spying on infidels, mostly husbands, cheating on their wives. He crosses the line with a client in an emotional way, and much of the story is spent in flashbacks, and then back to George waiting, waiting, interminably, for his love, the object of his obsession, to be free to be his. There is quite a bit of dramatic build-up and suspense, even though we know the gist of what is going to happen. This was done well, although parts of the book tended to be somewhat repetitive and slow.  <br /> <br />This was my first Swift novel, and I will seek out more, as I suspect this was not his high point, although it was a completely  satisfactory and engaging story.	2005-02-28
US	27769608	R261X4K4X98LQC	015603106X	701382317	My Life in Orange: Growing Up with the Guru	Books	5	24	27	N	N	A fascinating glimpse of a life caught up in a cult	Tim Guest is a young British man who was thrust at an early age, by his mother's spiritual search, into the commune life of the controversial Indian guru, Bhagwan Shree Rajneesh. In this fascinating and moving biography of his early life as a member of that cult, we witness a boy who nurtures a broken heart through his mother's neglect and self-absorption in her search for enlightenment. We see parallels within the life of Tim's mother and the arc of the cult itself, moving from an off-kilter yet earnest spiritual seeking to a finale best characterized as a sad and empty waste of time. Any intense movement that comes to an end will always have its casualties, and we often think only of the adults who have been directly involved in a cult or movement as such \\"victims\\", but this book poignantly highlights how the children who are given no choice in the matter can be more messed up by the experience and also in later life.     Tim writes with a contained emotion about his lonely and strange upbringing, shunted back and forth between confused and misguided parents, particularly his mother, who may have meant well but served to give him absolutely no grounding, real love, or sense of self. Aside from occasional visits with his father, much of the time described in the book concerns Tim's pre-teen years, after his parent's separation, spent with the mother who becomes quite an important figure in the European growth of the Rajneeshi movement. She is no mere rank and file follower, but a key figure in the British leadership, and has some direct encounters with the Bhagwan himself. Eventually, the movement unravels under the weight of leadership scandals, tax, immigration, legal and other myriad problems.     Tim gives a very well researched and appropriate level of insight into the movement, as if seeing it again through the eyes of the adolescent he was. We read only obtuse accounts of the rumoured sexual scandals, rape and violence for which the cult was known, since Tim, as the last paragraph of the book tellingly alludes to, was luckily spared some of the darker activities that were going on around him. Needless to say, however, he still has his scars to deal with, most centrally his parents' lack of real involvement in his life. Through it all, he appears to have emerged as a deep and thoughtful person, and this memoir is a top-notch and moving read.	2005-02-27
US	27769608	RS0UYEWO2H8EC	0452277698	704669834	Picturing the Wreck	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Good intentions, falls a little short on execution	This is the story of Solomon Grossman, a Jewish psychoanalyst in his sixties who is looking back on a critical lapse some thirty years before when he gave in to the temptations of a beautiful female patient and crossed way over the professional doctor-patient line. The result of his mistake is loss of job, career (for a time), wife, and son. And self-respect. His life has been a mess ever since, and he is a conflicted mess of denial, self-loathing and loneliness, despite climbing back into the psychiatric world in New York. By a combination of flashbacks and present day narration, we witness Solomon making an ill-timed entrance back into his son's life. Sadly, the son, from whom he was separated at the son's infancy, has also made a successful mess of his life.  <br /> <br />What follows are some tender moments of father-son reunion and a measure of reconciliation. This part felt a little rushed and contrived, with the son's transformation from estrangement to intimacy seeming to play out in just a day or two. Perhaps that is possible, but there was something a little inauthentic about it.  <br /> <br />I did like the book and admired that the writer was able to make \\"action\\" play second fiddle to the emotional development of the characters. Not a great work, but still one to be appreciated.	2005-02-19
US	27769608	R1LI7S6O6L60TL	0805031308	691653721	The Deep Green Sea: A Novel	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Emotional tragedy in the hands of a compelling writer	This story takes us to Vietnam in two time periods: the mid-1990's, when Ben, a former GI, revisits Saigon in search of closure to his past, and perhaps explore new beginnings; and 1966-7, when Ben was first there, in the midst of a confusing and senseless war. He, like so many others, was drawn into the world of the easy sex and opportunity of the 1960's in Vietnam for men in his position. He lost his innocence there with a sweet bar-girl, and afterwards returned home to a disappointing life in the American mid-west. <br /> <br />On his return to Vietnam, he falls deeply for a beautiful young tour guide, Tien, young enough to be his daughter. What follows over the course of a few days with Tien is reconciliation with his past, but also opening of old wounds and much heartache for both of them. Tien is equally smitten by Ben. To reveal more than this would be to reveal some of the premise of the story.  <br /> <br />Butler is a very sensitive writer, who is able to convey superstition, mystery and realism side by side. He writes first from the perspective of Tien, then Ben, then alternates back and forth throughout. This proves very effective, and allows the reader to experience both aspects of the developing relationship, feeling both the triumph and traumas of each as they unfold. There is a desperation and loneliness to both characters which draws them together, both feeling unreconciled to their pasts, and seeing their relationship with eachother as a form of absolution.  <br /> <br />This is a very effective and affecting story, despite some events that can at times seem contrived or overly coincidental. But there is much symbolism and a haunting sense of tragedy here, and I found myself holding my breath on several occasions, not quite believing what I was reading, shocked but moved. Butler obviously loves Vietnam and respects her people. This is a wonderful story.	2005-02-12
US	27769608	R26IZZ5QBWF486	038572179X	977000479	Atonement: A Novel	Books	5	7	8	N	N	McEwan's magnum opus	I chose to read all of Ian McEwan's other novels before starting on \\"Atonement\\", as I had seen from his other work that this was a very special writer. I wanted to enjoy the progression of his writing from his earliest works in the 1970's up to this highly recognized and intelligent novel. I am glad I waited, and I thoroughly enjoyed the process of experiencing this book through the perspective of his other works. This takes on a weighty and important tone from the very beginning, and in it, McEwan is able to delve as deeply into the minds and motivations of his characters as he has in any of his other works. McEwan speaks in the reassuring voice and confident prose that is his hallmark, and I found this to be an emotionally moving and painful, yet important book. <br /> <br />There is true literary magic at work here. A writer looks back on a pivotal event in her early life, which she propagated, and which caused a gaping and irreparable wound within her family. The title is ambiguous, much like his \\"Enduring Love\\" was about nothing of the sort, and \\"The Comfort of Strangers\\" was really about the dangers of outsiders (stranger-danger?). McEwan writes here about epic themes - family estrangement, war, dislocation, emotional baggage and how that impacts one's life, unforgiveness and imagination. Whether the vital facts of the story within a story were true or the subject of Briony's (the girl at the center of the story) great imagination, much of this story is about her efforts to forgive herself and come to terms with (\\"atone for\\") her mistake and in doing so, find peace within herself. Taking place over more than sixty years, I felt like I had lived with the characters through their traumas. <br /> <br />Once again, McEwan creates unforgettable characters; once again he takes on grand themes and succeeds superbly; and again, he has created a story that must be read.	2005-02-11
US	27769608	R1Z0V6LC6GURVW	0385494327	214937180	Black Dogs: A Novel	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Another profound McEwan work	This is a very real exploration of some deep themes, namely rational vs. irrational thought, good vs. evil, rigid ideology vs. free-thinking, salvation through works or redemption through a lifetime journey of faith and seeking. It is also about love for a more \\"innocent\\" time, but also the continuum of darkness and latent evil that exists and has existed in mankind since our beginnings.     All these sound like heady, heavy themes, but they are given humanity in the two main characters, British husband and wife Bernard and June Tremaine, and through the books narrator, and the chronicler of their lives, son-in-law Jeremy. Both June and Bernard start their relationship in the time of the turbulent WWII backlash against fascism, and once they feel it is safe to do so, declare their identities as socialists. June quickly turns her back on these beliefs after a real but symbolic encounter with two vicious black dogs, the actual recounting of which is at the very end of the story; the episode unleashes in her a knowledge of evil and darkness in the human soul (they were Nazi-trained attack dogs) and a concomitant belief in good, God, goodness in humanity, emotion and feeling. She does not become, in a conventional sense, a Christian, but senses a higher power and some type of order in the universe. This serves to draw her apart from her husband Bernard, a rationalist who has no need for God, and believes that mankind can be corrected or improved by a social ideology (as he states near the end, having an inner life does not put bread on the table, or make life any more palatable for seven people who sleep on the same floor).     The narrator Jeremy, seems to have sympathy for both points of view, although drawn more to June's type of philosophy - this serves to bring both spheres of thought into fascinating counterpoint, and it is the fleshing out of these themes, with the beautifully written descriptions that I love about McEwan's books, together with the human dramas,and a sense of the beauty in human frailty and fallibility that truly make this a work to savour. This is a story certainly up to McEwan's very high standards.	2005-02-06
US	27769608	R2EA8KD0QSUOW8	0385494335	837058873	The Innocent: A Novel	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Another instant classic from Ian McEwan	Ian McEwan writes with a ferocity that is understated at times, and the ease and accessibility of his writing can deceive the reader into thinking that what they are reading is insubstantial or light. This work was probably his most conventionally \\"commercial\\". That is not to demean the writing or the story in any way, as it was at least the equal of anything I have read by this fine author. There was all of the trademark McEwan subterfuge, relationship drama, self-discovery, exploration of male-female relating nuances, and deception at play here. And a knockout storyline which kept the pace of the novel humming. In fact, I found this one of the more compulsively readable of his works, with that page-turning addictability that most thriller writers strive for. But this seemed to mark a rare genre: literary thriller. Much to get excited about from both a plot and storytelling perspective, but also the kind of sentence construction and flow that only the best fiction writers can produce.  <br /> <br />The story, as others have summarized here, is one of undercover spy-work in post WWII Berlin, and the touching relationship between an Englishman and a German woman, which is the heart of the story. The relationship is made complicated by the backgrounds and circumstances of both, and a past relationship of the German woman proves to have a lasting impact on what happens in the book. If I were to divulge much more than that, I would be doing a disservice to the unfolding of the plot, which is fascinating and shocking. McEwan relates expertly the awkwardness of a virginal English man in his mid twenties, and while he is the obvious \\"Innocent\\" from the title, the title also works on other levels. <br /> <br />I loved this book and found it filled with a soulfulness and emotional resonance of a different nature than some of his other works. This had all of the hard-hitting violence and seaminess, with a little more optimism and heart. An excellent work of fiction.	2005-02-05
US	27769608	R16G7I36XA910W	0679781277	682628461	Martin Dressler: The Tale of an American Dreamer	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Part "documentary", part allegory, engaging story	This is a curious story, set in the late 1800's and early 1900's, and capturing the rise of young entrepreneur, Martin Dressler. Seemingly marked for prominence in the dizzying property development surge in New York City at that time, we see him progress further and further, ultimately imparting the City with gaudy and fantastical displays of high kitsch and amusement, in the guise of hotels that are fitted with the kind of displays seen in present day \\"Ripley's Believe it or Not\\" Museums. Dressler has the bigger is better mentality that seems to infect the Donald Trump's of this world, with each grand hotel scheme outdoing the last. He is carried along by his success, and it seems that he has never had time to reflect on what is beautiful or important. He is afflicted with a lack of time, as he realizes during the course of his meteoric rise.     I found Martin to be probably representative of many such entrepreneurial successes of the time; neglectful of his inner life and personal needs, except in surges of blind ego or selfishness; there is a void in the giving of oneself in any meaningful way to other people. I felt a little detached from him, losing sympathy with the character as the story went on. The important people in his life all start to fade into obscurity as he isolates himself in his successes. His downfall would seem to be in having lost touch with the real world, trying to create a dreamworld within the hotel confines, and succeeding in creating only, as one architectural reviewer within the book comments, a hotel that \\"extravagance and flamboyance and hunger had carried to such heights of success as to turn into the grotesque...a culmination of deplorable tendencies.\\"     One can marvel at the vision and energy that Dressler gave to his projects, but ultimately you feel a sadness that in his building on such a grand scale you see a man losing himself. This could be an allegory for America, with its unquenchable lust for the big and extreme, its voracious appetite for growth and progress at the expense of its soul. That makes this an important book, and one that I hope has a wide audience.	2005-01-31
US	27769608	R1KJULFRPI8NN	0679722025	873992849	A Bend in the River	Books	5	31	33	N	N	One for the ages - outstanding "true" fiction	This story has all the hallmarks of great fiction: moving, thoughtful prose; exotic setting (a post-colonial African country); fascinating storyline; tragic characters; grand themes. This was the first Naipaul story I have read, and now I know what all the fuss is about.     I found the writing very full, every sentence very active, moving the story forward in a staggeringly complete way. Salim is an Arab-African of Indian descent. He moves from the east coast of Africa to a town situated on a \\"bend in the river\\" in a central African country, presumably the former Belgian Congo, ostensibly to run a rudimentary general store, but more likely to delay finding what his real objectives in life are. He wants to experience the so-called \\"European\\" colonial culture of the town, and gets involved in the Hellenic Club, pursues an affair with the wife of a prominent political figure, and mentors his family servant Metty, and a young African, Ferdinand. In both these latter characters we see the symbolism of the \\"new\\" Africa, and the struggles in asserting identity, manhood, authority and organization. We get a glimpse into the sham intellectualism surrounding the educated elite, a world that Salim is drawn into but ultimately rejects. We see a man go from a kind of hope to a lazy idealism, then inertia, failing to change his life or make key decisions while the world around him is changing. The struggles of the country under its new leadership and the resistance from within all occur in the backdrop until they take center stage; this same pattern describes Salim in his approach to it all. He does not confront the emerging chaos until it is almost too late.     We see the country and atmosphere change dramatically: \\"This piece of earth - how many changes had come to it! Forest at a bend in the river, a meeting place, an Arab settlement, a European outpost, a European suburb, a ruin like the ruin of a dead civilization, the glittering Domain of a new Africa, and now this.\\" The\\"this\\" he is referring to is the decay of the idealistic \\"Domain\\" which is a kind of centre of learning, symbolic of the emerging sophistication of the African mind - it has become overrun with weeds and collapsed, seeming to revert to its more basic, tribal incarnation.    I am sure Naipaul has had his share of criticism for his portrayal of race, slavery and women. That has always struck me as an unfair assessment of any fiction writer, as if there had to be an agenda or belief system underlying a writer's writings. I find the  best fiction is usually where there is no agenda or motive, just a representation of real people and their idiosyncratic lives. I don't believe that he was necessarily trying to create a sympathetic character in Salim, just a realistic one. We live with a character who appears to be blown to and fro like a reed in the wind, making human choices but also steadily procrastinating.      At the end of this story, I felt as if I had been to central Africa, lived Salim's life, and had seen first hand the desolation and anarchy that overtook the once ideal-sounding \\"bend in the river\\". This is a book you can devour and then will chew on for long afterwards.	2005-01-28
US	27769608	R3TMW0JXGOOI6T	039592720X	658159771	Interpreter of Maladies	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Indian heritage, universal themes - first rate writing	Jhumpa Lahiri's writing grabbed my attention on the first page of the first story of this outstanding collection of short stories, the recipient of the Pulitzer Prize for fiction in 1999. Her writing transcends culture and background, instead addressing universal themes of fidelity, estrangement, cultural adjustment, marriage, jealousy, misogyny, amidst the ordinary and extraordinary lives of Indian couples and families, many having moved to America, others rooted in India.     Lahiri has the gift of creating believable and three dimensional characters, going beyond mere caricatures. Her genius is in making you feel great empathy for characters you have just encountered a few pages earlier, be they young married couples adjusting to the demands of their new spouse, often unknown through an arranged marriage, or those in their middle age, dealing with their yearnings for love or idealizing a stranger, as the character in the title story does.    This is a truly first class collection of stories, each one different to the other; I would wholly recommend this book to anyone who wants to be moved by fine writing.	2005-01-16
US	27769608	R1FGC64EHMYMDZ	0375701176	380487726	A Summons to Memphis	Books	4	20	22	N	N	Very restrained, yet emotionally intense story of a family	Peter Taylor, a native Tennessean, won the Pulitzer Prize for Fiction with this story in 1987. That, together with my residence in Nashville, was enough to recommend it to me.    The story is narrated by Phillip Carver, a fiftyish man who grew up in Nashville and Memphis in a prosperous and well-known family. The patriarchal head of the family, George Carver, had a thriving legal practice in Nashville before moving his entire family to Memphis after being involved in a business scandal with a prominent business partner. This story is about the ramifications that move had upon Carver's children, now middle aged and unmarried - Phillip and his two sisters, Betsy and Josephine. Their lives, all successful in their own ways, have been driven by an abiding resentment towards their father, and the father, in turn, directed their lives in ways that would appear devious and pernicious, including despoiling marriage plans for each one. Phillip had made flight to New York some fifteen years prior to the time period described here (which I calculated to be in the mid-1960's). The narrator, his father, now in his early eighties, and his two sisters, all carry immense emotional baggage towards one another. But it is of a type of baggage that is never given overt voice, lying buried beneath a veneer of politeness and rectitude. Indeed, the narrator conveys deep-seated emotional memories with a kind of dispassionate elan, if that is possible; he feels a step removed from the events of his life, and his feelings towards his sisters and father are unresolved, even under-developed. Indeed, he never quite resolves his feelings towards them, but dutifully returns to Memphis frequently over the course of the story at the behest of his sisters, who have engaged in a lifelong obsession over their father and his affairs. Phillip does receive some revelation on these matters towards the end and sees his family members as they perhaps really were and are.    In some ways, very little happensin this story. I had a sense of wanting the writer to break out and really tell a story. The narrator's emotional aloofness serves to prevent this. Eventually, the story does take off, but it takes some time. The writing is very subtle, and Taylor does have a knack for understatement. But perhaps he was more of a short story writer, as his resume suggests - I did enjoy this book, especially the insights into the lives of the cultural elite in regions that I am very familiar with, but am ambivalent about its being awarded the highest literary prize. Maybe on reflection I will change this view, but for now, I am a little untouched by this work.	2005-01-14
US	27769608	R2XFPDKSYB4787	0679750185	147498198	The Cement Garden	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Tightly told, compelling story about family secrets	This story is about family secrets - but it does not keep its secrets hidden for very long. In fact, within a few pages, we know more about the family that is at the heart of the story than we probably wanted to know. The entire story revolves around a group of four siblings, two boys, two girls, ages seventeen, fifteen, thirteen and six, and how they deal with the circumstances surrounding the loss of their parents. What develops is chilling and yet told in such a way that it appears natural and logical, since it is told in the first person of one of the siblings, the fifteen year old boy. Children who are not blessed with adult maturity and wisdom are left to their own devices and judgments. Outsiders are treated with suspicion and contempt. Disaster ensues. We witness a story of control, death, incest, sibling emotional suffocation, cruelty, and at times, tenderness, all told in a very unnerving way.      Like much of his later work, Ian McEwan proves adept at delving below the skin of his subjects, with complete realism and honesty. And be warned, this is not for the squeamish or moralistic. But then I am not aware of any of his writings that are. In the hands of a lesser writer, some of the subject matter could be offensive and unseemly. But McEwan is no ordinary writer.     While this story was written early in his arc as a novelist, it still stands as a worthy work. One can also see how his later works have progressed and become more literary, but any McEwan fan should enjoy it, and anyone looking for a place to begin reading his work will find much to admire here.	2005-01-12
US	27769608	R2TD74ORY1S48	0385494149	801233492	Enduring Love: A Novel	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Compelling story, powerhouse writing - McEwan at his best	To say that Ian McEwan is a master of prying below the surface of a well-established relationship is an understatement. This story is a perfect counterpoint to \\"The Comfort of Strangers\\", both books examining the effects of the intrusion of a dangerous and obsessive outsider into a relationship between man and woman (each couple being in the English upper-middle class). In each case, a seven year relationship is put to great strain and difficulty, the difference being that the encounter with the stranger in \\"The Comfort of Strangers\\" (an ironic title by the way) resurrects passion in a relationship that has become dull and unhinged, and in this story, replaces passion with callous indifference, suspicion and cynicism.     Joe and Clarissa, the couple at the centre of this story are a part of the intellectual and ideological elite. Joe writes magazine articles on scientific matters; Clarissa is something of an historian on the works and life of Keats. Joe is a rationalist who Clarissa comes to believe is in denial of his emotional responses to the events that take place in this story. We also get some insight into the inner mind of Clarissa, through letters and insights that balance Joe's, since the story is written in the first person of Joe.    The first chapter of this book had me hooked. And it only continues to grow better and more satisfying as the story progresses from the pivotal event which set in motion all that followed. Joe is placed in an impossibly difficult moral dilemma involving the saving of a child's life, and his response to that situation and those that follow, unhinges both him, and his precious relationship to Clarissa. The person who incites this is an intense character named Jed Parry, a deluded religious-obsessive-homosexually-oriented nut who fixates on Joe, and provokes reactions in Joe that form the basis of a very rich, dark and provocative psycho-drama. In the midst of this, McEwan mines the Joe-Clarissa relationship to depths that feelalmost voyeuristic to the reader. Through it all, McEwan writes beautifully, always seeming to find the right words to make my hair stand up on the back of my neck, while causing me to reflect, underline, and shudder. He is a great writer.	2005-01-09
US	27769608	R1G91USPKPPEMK	0767902521	157497316	A Walk in the Woods: Rediscovering America on the Appalachian Trail (Official Guides to the Appalachian Trail)	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Bryson is funny and has a green heart	This is the second Bill Bryson book I have read (\\"Notes From a Small Island\\" was the other) so I knew I was guaranteed much wry and spot-on humour, together with eccentric experiences and out-of-the-usual travel reminiscing. He did not fail to live up to these expectations. He is so adept at making you feel like you live in the moment with him as he encounters both the banal and the sublime. This book truly treasures the Appalachian Trail, while not hiding its frustrations and mundaneness. There is also much in the way of interesting factual information which serves as a compelling case for environmental advocacy. I am certain most who treasure the environment will find much to cheer about, and much to rue, in this book, as I did.     Early on, Bryson forgoes any perfectionistic desire to complete his hike of the whole trail and instead is content to hike part of it, and in so doing, shows us both its mysteries and challenges together with its beauty. It also takes some of the pressure off him and us, as he is content to enjoy the walk rather than try and accomplish something for its own sake.     He has written a very entertaining story which does service to both the environment in America and the gift of human companionship, walking the shrinking Appalachian woods with his hilarious hiking buddy, Katz. American culture is always an easy target for a skilled humourist and Bryson is good at poking fun where it is due, and pointing out the sad lack of appreciation for natural beauty among much of the American public.     The end result of reading this book, as I am sure it has been for many others, is that it fed my desire to explore more of the outdoors, appreciate what we have and fight to keep it.	2005-01-05
US	27769608	RVQW1GB0JHJFN	0679749845	93773817	The Comfort of Strangers	Books	4	15	20	N	N	Atmospheric and haunting	I should start out by saying that I was not among those who felt that the novelist's later work, \\"Amsterdam\\", lived up to the hype and acclaim that it received. I enjoyed that story, but I am sure there were other works that were more deserving of the Booker Prize. That said, I was more absorbed by this story, finding it both suffocating and intense.     McEwan gives a very graphic and descriptive sense of a city, presumably Venice, where a bored couple, Colin and Mary, find themselves for a languorous vacation, filling in the days with aimless wandering, pot-smoking and sex, on occasion. The street sounds, the high-walled, narrow lanes and alleyways, add to the sense of entrapment that gradually makes its way into the emotional state of the main characters. Their encounter, which they later come to realize was by design, with the jovial but intense Robert, leaves them non-plussed but curious. Their time with Robert, and then his wife Caroline, brings them almost unconsciously under an unspoken kind of spell that results in a rediscovery of passion bordering on obsession for eachother. Perhaps more rational people would have fled much earlier from Robert - of course, if they had, there would be no story, or perhaps a different story to tell here. Colin and Mary, both blinded by their idealism, allowed themselves to be manipulated by a person with a deeply obsessive personality, who embraces fantasy with a dangerous exuberance. The story leaves questions where we look for answers, raises doubts when we think we have it figured out, and through it all, McEwan writes with a kind of macabre relish that is at times discomfiting, but left me impressed by the storytelling.	2004-12-31
US	27769608	R1IBE0E3I3Z2XB	0684801523	193175702	The Great Gatsby	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	Easy to see why it is a classic	Obviously so much has been written about this great classic of American twentieth century letters, that my renderings will hardly add to the pantheon of acclaim and recognition that this wonderful story invokes. F. Scott Fitzgerald is a prime example of one who writes so well that he makes it seem easy.<br /><br />Like his contemporary Hemingway, he had the ability to make shocking statements without exclamation or over-emphasis. Also, his narrator is in a way a step removed from the central story, although having his own demons and hang-ups; in the end he is an irreplaceable part of Gatsby's sad ending.<br /><br />The story transports the reader into the 1920's, when bootlegging and infidelity were taboo but evidently commonplace. Idealistic love, and its dissolution, are at its core. This makes the novel timeless. Daisy Buchanan (the central female character) represents the type of ideal, rich, carefree woman that the 1920's is known for; Jay Gatsby the swashbuckling and debonair type that women sooned over; urbane and unaccountable. Perhaps the novel shatters the shallowness of those simple stereotypes. It is not by any account a feel-good reminiscence of the Jazz Age. bit something much deeper. The brilliance is that it makes you pine for the era while exposing the obvious superficiality present within it.	2004-12-25
US	27769608	R2P7708SJPH5HU	0140139400	391244810	The Spectator Bird (Contemporary American Fiction)	Books	5	31	32	N	N	A subtle, thoughtful and accomplished work of literature	This is a very rewarding piece of fiction written by the late Wallace Stegner. His writing is accessible, but nuanced and deep.     In this work, the National Book Award winner for 1977, Stegner profiles a few days in the lives of Joe Allston and his wife Ruth, who are in their twilight years, almost 70, and retired in relative comfort near San Francisco. A respected literary agent, Allston feels the pang or sense of not having accomplished much of direct or lasting value or personal satisfaction in his own life, paralleling his own experiences with that of the bird that watches and observes the living of other, more active and involved birds. He sees himself as being on the perimeter of the lives of those writers that he represents and also reads; but whom he both loves and hates.     Having regard to the title and parallels, this is not really a book about birds, for if it was, I doubt I could have stayed the course. It is a story of a man both in part frustrated and satisfied, although not at a point of admitting either emotion fully, who explores a period in his life some twenty years before, which had a profound and lasting impact on his life since. His son having died many years before, he has lived out his life with Ruth, and there are silences, a few secrets, many knowing looks, questions, but also many shared emotions that give their marriage and this story much resonance. A large part of the book follows his journal writing 20 years earlier while on a sabbatical with his wife in Denmark, the land of his mother's birth, and from where she fled at a young age. There are some secrets buried in that place that form the backdrop for this story. This is a story of reflecting and learning, rather than neat thirty minute lessons lived out with happy conclusions. Much that might help Joe is not apparent to him at the time he is experiencing it.     The story captures the irritations of family and over-familiarity with those we love but who can also drive us crazy.And coupled with that, the lure of the unfamiliar and exotic. As his life and the story evolves, Joe rediscovers the deep love he has for his wife and partner, Ruth.     Joe's questions and torment are perhaps reflected well in the following passage:    \\"What was it? Did I feel cheated? Did I look back and feel that I had given up my chance for what they call fulfillment? Did I count the mountain peaks of my life and find every one a knoll? Was I that fellow whose mother loved him, but she died; whose son had been a tragedy to both his parents and himself; whose wife up to the age of twenty had been a nice girl and since the age of twenty a nice woman? Whose profession was something he did not choose, but fell into, and which he practiced with intelligence but without joy? Had I gone through my adult life glancing desperately sidelong in hope of diversion, rescue, transfiguration.\\"    Joe does not get all the answers to these questions in a neat little bundle, so neither do we. But he acknowledges finally that he has been on part of the journey of life as more than just a spectator.	2004-12-20
US	27769608	R2QH2FAO7W76O5	0451527607	843633553	Sister Carrie (Signet Classics)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Great story...once you feel the writing style	This is the first Theodore Dreiser novel that I have read, and this proved to be a good place to start, being his debut work, written at the turn of the 20th century. Dreiser writes in a florid, descriptive type of way that takes a little getting accustomed to, but then establishes a groove. Let me give a word of warning: this is a very engrossing novel. It tells the story of Carrie, a young and impressionable girl of 18, who moves away from her small hometown to stay with her settled sister and brother-in-law in Chicago, and almost immediately (in fact, on the train journey to Chicago) makes an impression on a man, Drouet, with whom she would eventually develop a romantic relationship. That relationship sours when a more attractive prospect of a man appears within her sights, and she is in turn pursued by that man, Hurstwood. Both men are upper middle class achievers, both more than a little pretentious, but both smitten by Carrie, a plain Jane who becomes a beauty.     The story encompasses her struggles with poverty and hardship, wanting desperately, having, and then losing it, only to regain it by her own pluck and ambition. We are, of course, referring to material gain. The themes in this story run very deep. We witness, in a very well told manner, the trappings of wealth, the comfort and predictability of it, and then the rapid decline in fortunes that Carrie endures with Hurstwood, a proud man who fails, and is struck down by both his obsession for, indifference to, and then ultimate reliance on Carrie, which would have seemed incredible in the early stages of their relationship. I found the story of Hurstwood to be moving in that he had been financially comfortable, married (albeit a  predictable and dull marriage), with teenage children; and then out of perhaps boredom, a little arrogance and a feeling of \\"just because he could\\", he pursued Carrie, the circumstances of which led to his ruination. His business endeavours sour, and he is too proud to seek positions below those to which he had become accustomed. Dreiser writes very movingly about Hurstwood's declining financial status and the shifting sandbars on which he maroons himself. He becomes a morose, inert, and powerless individual, when there once was power. He is cast off by the type of people over whom he had previously had power. Surviving New York on 15 cents a day, even in 1900, must have been near impossible. In the end, for Hurstwood, it was. His indolence and pride destroyed him as a man.     Carrie, in the meantime, achieves the kind of success that seemed fantastical when she had been but a poor shopgirl struggling for $4.50 a week in Chicago. She is ultimately dissatisfied with her new-found wealth and celebrity. She knows that her work is easy and her success not achieved by hard work or years of labour; her failure in both relationships (albeit with men a good deal older than herself) has made her guarded and lonely. She keeps longing for that which is \\"ideal\\" but which is just out of her grasp. She is always something of an outsider, elusive and therefore desirable to those around her.     In the end, she is as tentative and alone as when the story began; as the author writes \\"In your rocking chair, by your window, shall you long, alone. In your rocking chair, by your window, shall you dream such happiness as you may never feel.\\"	2004-12-17
US	27769608	R5I58WI0AUJID	0374232482	393277078	Pictures of Fidelman	Books	4	2	2	N	N	The wittier, lighter side of Malamud	This is a series of six episodes in the life of New Yorker Arthur Fidelman, a painter who once aspired to be great, but didn't know how to get there, and now cannot identify what he wants in life, or how to get it. He moves to Italy and is promptly taken advantage of in every way imaginable, while he runs into some quirky and amusing characters who teach him many life-lessons and eventually help him discover his own identity.     This is a terrific and imaginative work and each misadventure that Fidelman embarks on is unique and funny. I pictured a \\"slightly stranger looking than Woody Allen\\" character, full of paranoia and uncertainty, and yet plodding along, tentative, determined to experience something new and creative.	2004-12-11
US	27769608	R15ZKBJJCA40XT	0020345305	953472927	Kaffir Boy in America	Books	3	26	28	N	N	Much adjustment for Mark in coming to America	Having read the author's seminal work \\"Kaffir Boy\\", recounting the incredible hardships in the South African ghetto where he was raised, I was eager to learn more about how Mark Mathabane fared once he arrived in his so-called \\"promised land\\" and started the adjustment from a repressed third-world existence to one of opportunity and possibility in the US.     Two things struck me about this follow up account of his life which bear mentioning: the author continues with his unflinchingly honest style of revealing everything, good and bad, in his experience; and secondly, the adjustment was difficult, because of the obvious cultural differences (and some similarities) to South Africa, together with the author's intense personality (which could also be seen, arguably, as stubbornness). Mathabane is unquestionably well read, highly intelligent, highly motivated and has strong opinions. Those are not faults, although he does tend to be a little unnecessarily verbose at times (and this, despite him quoting writers who warn against such things); his opining and at times unwillingness to bend or compromise or adapt to others led him to change or discontinue college courses at least four times, and some would say, squander opportunities. That last point is in the end, probably unsustainable, since he has accomplished much, and succeeded beyond anyone's wildest dreams in reaching a wide and sympathetic audience for his story and work.     It is obvious that Mathabane, after having seen so much suffering and rising above it, does not want to be conventional, which led him to discontinue studies under scholarships at schools that most college students would covet the opportunity to attend. To his credit, he does not try to hide these issues, nor does he hide the, at times, incredulity and head-shaking from those well-meaning and intelligent friends, including Stan Smith and others, who question his decisions and direction.     Mathabane brought to light, at a very needed time, the struggles of South Africa under apartheid. I found him more compelling, more convincing and I felt more empathetic in reading his experiences in South Africa in \\"Kaffir Boy\\", than in his recounting of his new life in America in this book, although there are some good passages which shine light on how a form of apartheid, economic and power-oriented as much as racial, still exists in America today. In the end, people of various persuasions appear to have looked to Mathabane to argue their view, be it Christian, humanist, liberal or conservative. I don't think any one group is entirely comfortable with where he sits. It seems at times that he is a little conflicted about where his beliefs lie. It can be frustrating at times, but ultimately this is not a measured and resolute work of fiction, but a true story of this man's life, with all its faults, contradictions and accomplishments wrapped up together.	2004-12-10
US	27769608	RA1PLQWXL4174	0060929782	318363039	Black Boy (The Restored Text Established by The Library of America) (Perennial Classics)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A masterpiece	This is an autobiographical work by African-American writer Richard Wright, encompassing the first two decades of his life, and taking place in the early twentieth century, in that hotbed of racial and social conflict, the American Deep South.  <br /> <br />The work is at once fiercely honest, but also lyrical and literate, demonstrating and describing the genesis of Wright's development as a human being and writer. As a boy, Wright keeps his independence and dignity intact despite opposition forces warring against him to try and force him to conform to what the white expectation of the black man's behaviour should be. Literature becomes his salvation. As for so many writers, he finds solace in the writings of the classic authors of the nineteenth century (by sneaking books that would be otherwise inaccessible to him) from the library through a co-operative white friend.  <br /> <br />He does not spare the black race any of the same wrath and disappointment that he subjects the white people to as he encounters gross abuse at the hands of his family and those around him who are under the \\"system\\", and who try to suppress him and try to coerce him into surrendering his spirit and individuality in the name of conformity and religion out of fear and anxiety. In the end, he leaves the South with a bitter realism which had taken formation over a lifetime of suppression and suffering, and which he would take with him to fuel his creative spirit once settled in the North. He had such mature reflection which developed in spite of those around him who told him that he was immature and wayward.  <br /> <br />The only redeeming Southern white characters in the story are those who are ultimately powerless to remedy the situation, such as a former employer (and he had his share of unsympathetic bosses also). This story is still relevant in the twenty first century, because even though the institutional type of racism that was ingrained in Southern ways and thinking is no longer with us in a formal fashion, there is still a strong racial and economic divide now, and in the South there still resides prejudice and bigotry towards those whose views are divergent from their own.  <br /> <br />A key point in this book is when a list of topics safe for discussion between the white and black man appears, and perhaps more tellingly, those that were taboo, including white women, the Civil War, attitudes of northerners towards blacks, the Republican party, etc. The list of permitted topics numbers only two - sex and religion, and one gets the sense that those two topics are discussed in the most basic and base fashion. To me, this symbolized the inability and unwillingness of white and black to connect in any meaningful way. A very important passage in this book deals with religious intolerance, and the attitudes of the un-religious, that are feared by the supposedly God-fearing. Those who deviate from the simplistic manner of thinking of Wright's family and his religious circle pose a threat to their very existence.  <br /> <br />In the end, this is a brutally honest work, as Wright does not shirk the issues of violence, hate and abuse within his own race, much as he does not forgive the white attitudes that ultimately shaped his own resistance and thinking in such a profound way. He regularly took a stand, regularly bucked the system, and therefore has won his way into affecting the sensibilities and ideas of thinking people everywhere. His words and emotions will resonate with me forever.	2004-12-02
US	27769608	R1A425SG2QDHOH	0684848287	927431741	Kaffir Boy: An Autobiography--The True Story of a Black Youth's Coming of Age in Apartheid South Africa	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Compelling, incredibly sad, but a triumph of spirit	This book hits you right between the eyes. Having read some other works about South Africa, including books by Alan Paton, one of the best known writers produced by that country, about apartheid and the struggles associated with it, I was eager to read Mark Mathabane's story. He writes in a no-nonsense, incredibly honest way about the disturbingly unbearable conditions of life in the ghetto where he grew up in South Africa in one of the country's more turbulent times, the years prior to the formal dismantling of the brutally oppressive system of apartheid. By giving almost day by day, year by year recounting of the impossible odds he and his family faced, we get a true sense of the struggles of every black in the country; we feel deeply his struggle to overcome the sense of shame and guilt fostered by the Afrikaners who perpetuate the system; and equally his relief in encountering a very few sympathetic (liberal, as he calls them) whites who do their best to help him overcome the enormous odds he faced. The hate that this man encountered on a daily basis was painful to read about. However, this man was exceptional. Exceptional in his giftings, in every sphere, emotionally, intellectually and physically (he was the first black South African to obtain a tennis scholarship to the US), and his talent and drive obviously opened many doors for him. A very poignant moment is at the very end as he leaves his family and friends behind, not quite overtly stating perhaps the obvious fact that the less talented and opportunistic would continue to struggle in South Africa under the life-sapping system. I read this book in 2004. It was published in 1986, and obviously much has happened in that country in the past 18 years. I will be interested to read his later works, and see how his being removed from the system, and indeed the system being removed from his country, impacted his thinking, writing and life. He was a much younger man when this story was written, with a passionateheart, and I wonder (hopefully) whether he encountered the level of freedom and liberty that he so eagerly saw awaiting him in America as this story concluded.	2004-11-24
US	27769608	R3DDON8OAGIMCR	0452275717	101095262	Welcome to Hard Times	Books	4	18	20	N	N	Destroyed my idealism of the wild west	We each have our conceptions of how the west was in that period when America was coming into itself, and the American or newly minted immigrant, with all his ideals and aspirations, was exploring hitherto unconquered frontiers in search of wealth and opportunity. This is a somber work, and for that reason, refreshing and real.     Blue is a leader of sorts, also kind of a coward, but human in all respects. He rises and falls with the town he exists in. He ekes out a position of modest respect, while also inciting a level of revilement in those with whom he desires closeness. He is in a way a tragic character, but fully human. The Bad Man of Bodie is the dark force of evil in the story, hovering around ready to destroy the meager gains that Blue and his fellow settlers find. One senses Blue's disappointment and self-loathing in his recounting of the rise and fall of the inconsequential town and a rueful sense of what could have been, personally and socially.     This was a very entertaining read; thoughtful, subtle and as satisfying as a cold beer on a hot day.	2004-11-24
US	27769608	R19GSZ91MBR22E	0679751823	122238069	Answered Prayers	Books	2	18	25	N	N	Unsatisfying crap	This may be one of the most unsatisfying books I have read, which is a disappointment because I have enjoyed a couple of other Capote books, written before he succumbed to his own excesses and ego. This is so disjointed and lightweight that parts of it had me sighing in disgust, rueing the waste of a great talent. Capote seems to wear his crassness as a badge of honour, and while there is certainly nothing wrong with being proudly gay or even proudly wierd, he flaunts his strangeness in a way that becomes less endearing and more towards the annoying. It strikes me that Capote would have been a very frustrating person to know in real life - aloof and supremely selfish, a state most likely exacerbated by his addictions. The foreword to this \\"novel\\", written by its editor, hints at how difficult Capote was to deal with. Those points aside, all would have been forgiven if this had been a coherent, or at least interesting, piece of work. I found it self-indulgent, lazy and pretty much a waste of time. Its only value is perhaps as a cautionary tale for those who feel like wasting their talent.	2004-11-24
US	27769608	R3I0RMYMMKCFUW	0060929898	864272469	Death Be Not Proud (Perennial Classics)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A stunningly moving gem of a book	I had vaguely heard of this book when I picked it up at a used bookstore recently for a dollar. It is a thin work, and was tucked in between weightier works of fiction, but the title struck me so I bought it. I read it in a little over one sitting. It is the story of Johnny Gunther, a seventeen year old boy with immense promise and a remarkable spirit, who contracts a brain tumour. The story, written by Johnny's father, is immensely powerful, and despite its incredibly personal (to the author) subject matter, lacking in schmaltz or uncomfortable over-sentimentality. The death of a child is perhaps a parent's greatest fear, and living through this experience with travel-writer John Gunther, his ex-wife Frances, and their amazing son Johnny, is gut-wrenching and painful. Witnessing the end of a life, the unfulfilled promise of a life unlived, a future being dissolved, is heart-rending. Johnny is someone we would all be privileged to know or encounter, and his breathtaking maturity in matters emotional, intellectual and spiritual had me shaking my head in wonder; as the story moved towards its painfilled ending, I felt keenly a sense of the loss this family felt. John Gunther does not relate very much about his own life or hardships, choosing instead to focus on the son, but one is very aware that his marriage has ended and his ex-wife Frances is very much a part of this story also. The former husband and wife were perhaps drawn back together, though not maritally, as a force to deal with their mutual grief in watching their beloved son die before them. More importantly, perhaps, their enthusiasm for their son and his well-being and very survival, probably prolonged his life by many months, as they tried one medical solution after another. I found myself wishing, as the story is unfolding, that something miraculous would happen and Johnny's life would be spared; I almost wish I could be reading his biography written at age 70, had he lived. But perhaps his death, and the dignity with which he carried himself throughout the ordeal made his remarkable (albeit short) life all the more noteworthy, and I hope that people will continue to draw inspiration from this book for many years. It is the type of book that could truly change your life for the better.	2004-11-20
US	27769608	R80BNKL7P0HH6	0060934417	546555129	Bel Canto	Books	5	5	6	N	N	This story is a knockout!	This is the first Ann Patchett novel I have picked up, but it surely will not be the last. This story follows an elegant musical development, appropriate given the title, and provides such rich and likeable characters that one cannot help but be blown away by both the storytelling, the premise and the ending. I will not give away the ending, although the story is perhaps less about the resolution of the hostage crisis that is at its core, than it is about providing a lush and moving study of some fascinating individuals - rich characters who change profoundly in a wholly unique setting. One cannot help but fall a little in love with the soprano, Roxanne Coss, who progresses from diva-with-paycheck to singer-with-heart. One cannot feel anything but empathy for everyone on both sides of the crisis, as it creeps along to its inevitably gut-wrenching finale. The reader changes, along with the group, to become a little softer, a little more appreciative of life in its simplicity, more accepting of struggles at both ends of the wealth spectrum, and the author provides an interweaving tapestry of culture and class clash that is so believable and entertaining that it becomes just about an act of will to put the book down. I was sorry when it ended.	2004-10-29
US	27769608	R3872GIIR31SQL	0375701230	91189139	A Death in the Family	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Death, religion, family and hurt feelings	I do not know much about James Agee's personal history, but one wonders whether there was a degree of biography in this profound account of a family torn apart by an untimely death. The time and setting certainly fit with Agee's own upbringing. In any event, he poignantly captures the conflicting emotions of a wife who is trying to cope with the loss of her partner and mate in his prime, and how to reconcile that loss with her strong, self-effacing religious beliefs. The church, or religion in general, is not given a good face in this work, particularly in the guise of the Catholic Father, and in the struggle that Mary undergoes in trying to be strong and suppressing her emotional grief, in the name of that religion. I was appalled by the stern and unforgiving body language and words conveyed by the priest towards the young children who had just been given news of their father's death. His actions and attitudes may be a sign of those times, but the reactions of the children towards the priest, of guilt, shame and conflictedness, when all they should have felt was comfort and consolation, demonstrates the type of stern and unyielding religious arrogance that is at the heart of this story. Obviously, religious conflict had a long and divisive, in some senses unspoken, history in the family profiled here. Those differences exploded after the tragedy occurred. Also, the reactions and feelings of Rufus in particular, and also his younger sister, and his sense of pride and accomplishment in telling of his father's death to his schoolmates, is shocking, yet real. A child cannot adequately come to terms with the finality of death, and perhaps the saddest line in the book is Rufus pondering whether news of his father's death might prompt some of his schoolmates (who he obviously feels intimidated by and fearful of) to share their lunches with him. His reactions are bewildered, and his mother is unable to console him or help him cope with the devastation of his father's death, with she herself struggling with whether to grieve or praise God. This is a very profound work and while parts of it were difficult to access - some of the large parts in italics - the emotion was raw and real. It is a story I will remember for a long time.	2004-10-07
US	27769608	R1YJ2XESRK1HKA	0880015004	11007256	Up Above The World	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Well short of Sheltering Sky but a good read nonetheless	I leapt upon this book when I saw it at a used bookstore, having been blown away by Bowles' pivotal work, \\"The Sheltering Sky\\", which would have to rate as one of the best books I have ever read. I have to say I was underwhelmed by this one - very different in tone and style, not as compulsively readable, but still a good way to pass a few hours on a Sunday afternoon. I do have to give Bowles kudos for his ability to accurately represent some of the seamier consequences that can occur when Americans are placed in unsettling surroundings and act without plan or forethought and his ability to highlight cultural differences in entertaining yet subtle ways. He is definitely a writer whose works I shall continue to seek out.	2004-09-30
US	27769608	R1VWURIEHGIIKU	0679745661	982673335	Music for Chameleons	Books	4	34	35	N	N	Whether true or imagined, he tells a good story	I see much skepticism in the other reviews of this book about Capote's trustworthiness in representing a story as truth or fiction, but I have to say that I was able to put my own judgment about those matters aside, and enjoy the highly entertaining way in which he writes. Was the conversation with Marilyn Monroe real, partly real, or totally an invention of what others have said was a drug-addled mind - who cares? We will never truly know, and that is the beauty of it. Both parties have departed this earth; both are regarded somewhat mythically, and I do not believe that Capote was doing anything other than attempting to entertain, which he does in a sensational, shocking, but addictively readable way. I have to confess that there were only a few of the \\"fictional\\" stories at the beginning that I truly enjoyed, but I was thoroughly entertained by the short pieces - episodes with Truman Capote and his unusual band of friends and acquaintances - in the latter third of this book. The central story of the Handcarved Coffins had much that anyone attempting to discredit factually would likely have fun with. I have not researched the story, so do not know if it was indeed a factual series of murders, or merely presented as such by Capote. I was not concerned with that, either here, or when I read In Cold Blood, by the same author. That piece was obviously more of a factual account, a highly publicised crime, but written in enjoyable prose. Handcarved Coffins was so much more compellingly written than much in the \\"detective\\" genre (which I try to avoid) today. Capote had a talent for storytelling that I have only recently discovered, but have quickly grown to appreciate.	2004-09-29
US	27769608	R2B3Z2BFQ4X0H6	0374128715	689175313	The Confessions of Max Tivoli (Today Show Book Club #22)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Quirky, yet surprisingly moving and involving	I had the good fortune of picking up this book with very little advance knowledge of its central themes or plot. That is usually a good thing, and in this case, even more so. It passed the 50 page test (whether to continue reading, or to put it down, perhaps forever) with flying colors. The quality of the prose, the honest reflections of Max Tivoli, and the quirky subject matter gave this book such an originality that it was impossible to put down.     Max Tivoli is afflicted with a reverse-aging condition which means that when he is a boy, he looks like a man, and as he grows older, he resembles someone who is growing younger. It is a mysterious and remarkable concept, and one which leads Tivoli into a range of misadventures. There is only a short period in the middle decade or so of his life where he can pass for, and actually feel, close to his actual age, when old and young intersect. At all other times, he is somewhat of a freak and anomaly.     MR Greer would appear to have done some living and mature reflection of his own, despite his youth, such is the thoughtful and perceptive tone of this story. I have nothing but good things to say about this book. I was carried along by the writing and the story in a way that reminded me of Michael Cunningham's, \\"The Hours\\". Tivoli also takes advantage of situations, or places himself opportunistically in the midst of them, in a way reminiscent of the central character in Nicholson Baker's \\"The Fermata\\", although in a far less sexual and self-gratifying manner. Having made those observations, however, to this reader, Greer is at least the equal of both Cunningham and Baker. There is much moral ambiguity present in the actions of Max, but I felt nothing but great empathy for him as he made one misguided decision after another, guided only by his consuming desire to be with the central love of his life. Whether one regards Max as heinously selfish, tragically smitten, or both, this was a superb story of love, human desire,and the lifelong consequences of \\"small\\" actions, centered on one of the more unique fictional characters I have encountered.	2004-09-29
