US	28657792	RKDK97W1YJ8RA	1893554856	45375245	Anti Americanism	Books	4	161	167	N	N	French journalist thoughtfully re-examines anti-Americanism	~American readers may be surprised to discover that this putatively pro-American book reached the best-seller list in France. It is written by a French intellectual and journalist who, at nearly eighty years of age, knows the United States well (having written on the same subject nearly three decades ago in a book called Ni Jesus Ni Marx or, in English, Without Jesus or Marx ). The global position of the United States having evolved considerably since his previous book, Revel takes a fresh look~~ at this question in a larger context of debates worldwide on globalization, and not just U.S. society and foreign policy.<br />Published about a year after the events of September 11, 2001, the book takes a fresh look at the root causes of anti-Americanism, particularly in France, but also, to some extent, in Europe and the rest of the world, although some critics in France argue that he uses the book to pursue his own hidden political bias against certain French elites and domestic policies. <br />~Revel examines the mixed and often contradictory dual sense of envy and contempt that the United States inspires abroad, seeking to identify which of these attitudes are objectively based. He generally contends that it was this long-established ambivalent set of feelings outside the Untied States, and not the aftermath of 9/11, which underlies the resurgence of negative attitudes to the United States.<br />Revel's style is full of irony and paradox as he takes on subjects as diverse as attitudes~~~ on globalization, foreign fears of cultural extinction from Americanisms, and foreign policy. He sees in the anti-globalization debate a deeper resentment of American ideals of economic free-market liberalism. He challenges the demonstrators at the Seattle WTO meeting or at other anti-globalziaiton rallies which periodically sprout up, to look at the contradiction between their assault on so-called unbridled market ideology of free trade and the real attempts of the WTO to create rules of trade~~ which most developing countries are seeking to join. In an interesting final chapter, Revel blames the anti-americanism of foreign governments as actually bolstering the American superpower status which they revile.<br />To characterize this book as pro-American simply beause it challenges a wide range of attitudes that have broadly come to be seen as anti-American is to misunderstand some of the arguments Revel makes. There is some interesting historical and sociological analysis which makes~~ reading this book a few times worthwhile if you wish to decode contemporary attitudes to the United States in a much deeper and, ultimately, more illuminating historical framework of understanding.~	2003-10-06
US	28657792	R2WVFU82A1UIJN	047141574X	196740967	Alpha Beta: How 26 Letters Shaped the Western World	Books	3	9	10	N	N	Neither style nor substance as easy as ABC!	You would be hard pressed not to agree with other reviewers who seem near unanimous in their sense of frustration with the author's meandering style which unfortunately obscures some interesting points. Instead of holding up and walking us through a clear thesis, the author continually digresses into various minutiae about ancient Mediterranean history, archaeology, and linguistics, coupled with an awkardly placed chapter, two-thirds into the book, compariong and contrasting the dynamics of biological and cultural evolution.<br />This being said, I feel it only fair to tell you what the book attempts to convey. John Mann sees the alphabet (by which he really means the modern Roman alphabet used widely in western civilizations) as a peculiar artifact of human invention and whose origin and spread were hardly accidental. According to him, the evolution of the alphabet was shaped by dynamics similar to those which cause heridity, variation, and selection of genetic traits among species. His foil is the work of Yale classics scholar Eric Havelock whom Mann characterizes as holding up the ancient Greek alphabet as the paragon of literary perfection and the underpinning of Greek genius. <br />Mann then proceeds to dismantle this image of the ancient Greek alphabet, showing the debt the Greeks owed to older civlizations, notably the Phoenicians, through a complex process of evolution initally shaped by the needs of recording trade transactions in a mechanism more efficient than Egyptian hieroglyhpics or Sumerican cuneiform, and later by the needs of an emerging culture (the Hebrews) whose ideology required literacy under a strogn charismatic leader (Moses).<br />It would be neither fair nor accurate to represent John Mann's arguments on the origins of the alphabet as based on biblical claims. In fact, he is cautious to point out the such claims are generally not substianted by available evidence, much of which however was gathered by archaeological expeditions exploring such claims. Unfortunately, the discussion of this topic is too full of digression from the book's purported central thesis to be worthy of the few interesting insights it does bring.<br />Having described the archaeological finds around the \\"Asiatic\\" script which was contemporary with ancient Egyptian hieroglyphics, Mann shows links between this script and that developed in the mysterious eastern Mediterranean state of the second millenium known from Egyptian sources as Ugarit, one of several~~ rival Phoenician ports of that ancient period. Again, the central thesis in the book gets lost amidst a welter of  minutiae, albeit not uninteresting, about this civlization.<br />In the next step towards completing the jigsaw puzzle he presents, Mann shows the links between the Phoenicians who had their alphabet around 1200 BC and the ancient Greeks whose early alphabet is not evidenced till 800 BC. But before leaping into this discussion, Mann inserts the seventh chapter of the book whose title \\"The Selfish Alphabet\\" takes off from biologist Richard Dawkins' book \\"The Selfish Gene\\" and in which he develops a curious argument about the evolution of cultural artifacts as language and religion which he likens to the so-called memes, the famous term that Dawkins coined in his 1976 book. Mann admits his own struggle in seeking his \\"Grand Unified Theory of Culture\\" and does humbly invite the uniterested reader to proceed to the next chapter where he continues his exposition on the transmission of the alphabetic tradition from the Phoenicians to the Greeks.<br />Lest you think that Mann has a narrow focus on Western civilization, you might be interested to discover his special interest in Mongolian culture and history. In fact, his fifth chapter provides an absoluting fascinating account of the development in fifteenth century Korea of an alphabet which Mann, quoting British linguist Geoffrey Sampson, describes as QUOTE one of the great intellectual achievements of humankind UNQUOTE <br />With this chapter,in which he shows this Korean script drew from the Mongols, Mann tries to butress what seemed to me to be one of his key points: that the invention of the alphabet was a rare intellectual achievement whose impact was independent of technology and which has linked many civilizations. Referring to the thirteenth century adoption by Mongolian leader Chingis Khan of the alphabet of the Naiman people he had conquered, Mann proclaims grandly QUOTE He [Chingis Khan] ordered his staff to adopt the script of the newly conquered Naiman tribe, who wrote taking a system from the Uighurs, who inherited ot from an Iranian culture, Sogdian, who had taken it over from Aramaic, who had it from old Hebrew: in effect, the script familiar to the Israelites 3000 years earlier UNQUOTE Full circle back to his argument on the origins of the alphabet. <br />The appendices provide some interesting set of transliterations across different alphabets, a historical timeline, and a fairly extensive biobliography. I was truly sorry to find this intriguing book handicapped by its cumbersome style, let alone some likely questions about the scholarship.	2003-10-06
US	28657792	R1SGWQ349GXNO0	006661998X	14710670	Consulting Demons: Inside the Unscrupulous World of Global Corporate Consulting	Books	3	3	4	N	N	B2B or B2C: Is that the only question?	In this personal account of his journey through the world of management consulting, former management consultant Lewis Pinault explains why more than a decade of consulting experience drove him to finally revert to his original career dreams and training in space science. Although  his tales of questionable business ethics, grueling work schedules, and a fast-paced jet-setting lifestyle, seem almost by design to deliver a grim picture of this industry, they may remain the least of factors which either deter or attract young aspirants to the entry and higher ranks of this trade, just as similarly scathing insider reviews of investment banking paradoxically became marketing tools for that industry. There are many revealing, if often unflattering anecdotes in this book, including one related to management guru C. K. Prahalad, co-author of Competing for the Future, which I have also reviewed on this website. And there is some wisdom to be gained from reading this book cover to cover.	2003-09-16
US	28657792	R1W8MP0BEM2K7C	0875844162	571072005	Competing for the Future	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A retrospective on a 1994 breakthrough management guide	Corporate strategy texts are notorious for their short shelf lives, but it is instructive to revisit them during business downturns and understand what they contributed and also where they fell short.<br />Now that the future has happened - nine years after this book was published - what would the authors  say about the dot.com bust and the collapse of erstswhile visionary corporate giants such as Enron and Global Crossing?<br />In 1994, the authors wrote that the goal of competition QUOTE is not to simply benchmark a competitor's products and processes and imitate its methods, but to develop an independent point of view about tommorow's opportunities and how to exploit them. UNQUOTE By this criterion, how exactly did the dot.com dwarfs or giants of the late 1990s, many of which were hailed as exactly the kind of visionary enterprises the authors encourage, fail to leave a lasting legacy?<br />Certainly, other breakthrough management guides have not been exempt from the harsh judgment which the benefit of hindsight might impose only a few years after these books come out. Such a fate befell one of the renowned predecessors to this book, In Search of Excellence, half of whose most admired corporations ran into serious difficulties within a few years of publicaiton of the book.<br />None of this undercuts some important contributions this book does continue to make about how organizations should anticipate, manage and thrive amidst rapid change. The single most important idea in this book is that of leveraging core competencies, so that a business continually focuses on what it can do best and most profitably, rather than on what it is currently doing. If nothing else, the authors have left a legacy of language which remains helpful as a common currency among business leaders who need to understand the importance of industry foresight and to shed obsolete competencies. <br />And the authors did rightly suggest that appropriate public policies are also needed, althought this prophetic message was unfortunately given only a fleeting mention prior to the dot.com bust  QUOTE We are not arguing for a set of policy measures that in any way discriminates in favor of large companies. The goal is not to keep dinosaurs alive at any costs. However, society pays a heavy price when, through , managerial malfeasance,a company richly endowed with resources and talent self-destructs. The goal is not to embalm dinosaurs throguh subsidies, protectionism and preferential procurement policies - as European governments have too often done - but to ensure that large companies don't become dinosaurs in the first place UNQOUTE	2003-09-16
US	28657792	RCZVQ3RZXMH6E	0309055318	74261339	Telemedicine: A Guide to Assessing Telecommunications for Health Care	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A rare hybrid of disciplines	This book is a rare hybrid of policy, business, and technology perspectives on how to derive value from any service whcihcan be supported or delivered by information and communications technologies. Written by medical and health policy practitioners, who will remain by far the predominant audience for such a book, it is nonetheless also of more general interest to anyone who has to develop and articulate the multiple perspectives needed to succesfully design and implement large-scale IT applications dependent on telecommunications infrastructure.	2003-09-16
US	28657792	R2O9CH1676WWUO	1891620673	918611988	The Wealth Of Man	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Homo economicus from 13000BC to the Internet age	I thoroughly enjoyed this book. Former British ambassador to the US and BBC commentator Peter Jay has found a gap among books on the origins and prospects of human civlization, which range from the insights of physical anthropology of our species, to economic histories of societies and nations, and to the cautionary messages of evolutionary history and environmental science. Here, the author focusses on the forces of survival and competition which shaped the material history of human civilization, with digressions on particular technical inventions, animal husbandry practices, and social institutions (e.g. double entry book-keeping in 13th century Florence). All of which culminates in his cautious  balance sheet of the state of humanity at the brink of the third millenium AD where he reaffirms his stance as a political realist, rejecting the proclamations by other writers of the end of history and the nation state. The finale  is also the least novel aspect of the book. Since this book tends to place itself among the white spaces between the several disciplines which broach this subject, it is both subject to the risk of unmet readers' expectations and the prospect of a reader like myself welcoming it as a literate and somewhat original contribution. The sparse but nonetheless effective use of a few statistics complements a prose which is rhytmic and elegant.	2003-09-16
US	28657792	RQGYOE33KG77	0395077087	21109419	Ambassador's Journal: A Personal Account of the Kennedy Years	Books	4	8	8	N	N	JFK years through the eyes of an economist turned diplomat	Having recently exhumed this 1969 book from my basement, I took time to selectively enjoy some of the diary entries which were written during the Kennedy years, largely from the US Embassy in India. Galbraith was a Harvard economist who worked for the JFK campaign and was given the ambassadorial appointment to India which he had asked for. In his usual witty and sardonic style, he recounts anecdotes from this era, including encounters with JFK, Nehru, and other world leaders. The book closes with the funeral of JFK at which Galbraith meets French President De Gaulle. QUOTE I told him I thought there was a real resilience in our political system; that we could survive the death of John F. Kennedy; that we needed to reflect less on the consequences of this action and more on the wickedness of the violence which struck down a man who so throughly loved life. De Gaulle said he agreed, that we had come to be far too casual abouth death. France and the United States both had a core of violent people at large. UNQUOTE<br />Such is the tenor of this book, which is more mildly humorous than profound. Incidentally, I have reviewed a book by another ambassador to India - from Mexico - whom I believe served at about the same time in New Delhi as Galbraith. The book entitled In Light Of India is by Mexican writer Octavio Paz, and is more focused on culture and history than this diary of the U.S. ambassador who was his contemporary.	2003-09-16
US	28657792	R2TOXNR01BOOID	0224618873	737333991	India's China War	Books	4	25	32	N	N	War and peace between Asia's two giants: a reassessment	Recently, India and China, the two most populous nations on the planet, have taken significant steps to improve a bilateral relationship deeply scarred by a 1962 war centering over a territoral dispute in an area bordering Chinese-annexed Tibet. This thaw in relations may reflect a generational shift in both countries since this dispute. It is not entirely surprisingly that press commentary on these events, notably in India, has also revived attention to this book published in 1970 by British journalist Neville Maxwell which focuses on the 1962 war which had since scarred relations between the two Asian giant.<br />Anyone who has not read this book, but has an interest in the future relationship of these two Asian powers, should read it, if only because it remains one of the most important, albeit somewhat controversial, reference on the Sino-Indian conflict.<br />Maxwell's account of this dispute is held by some observers, including many Indians I have talked to, to be biased against India, particularly as Maxwell (described in at least one Indian paper as  a notroious Indophobe and Sinophile) has written QUOTE Indians will be shocked to discover that, when China crushed India in 1962, the fault lay at India, or more specifically, at Jawaharlal Nehru and his clique's doorsteps. It was a hopelessly ill-prepared Indian army that provoked China on orders emanating from Delhi, and paid the price for its misadventure in men, money and national humiliation UNQUOTE<br />It is timely to reintroduce this book and the controversy surrounding it, since any improvement in this relationship is likely to be mediated by a new generation in both countries, and to involve a generation outside both countries, which did not live through the 1962 conflict.	2003-09-16
US	28657792	RPLTQBP7B7O8Y	0465048811	611466079	The Rise Of Napoleon Bonaparte	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Napoleon's early life through the lens of military history	This book is the first of a two-volume biography of Napoleon wriotten by a former U.S. Marine Captain. It is cast in a straightforward chronological scheme and delivered in concise and easily readable chapters. Military history buffs especially will enjoy and find a wealth of details of individual campaigns from Toulon to Austerlitz (1805) which is where this first volume ends. There are also passages on Napoleon's personal life, including his boyhood and courtship of and marriage to Josephine Beauharmais. The heavy emphasis on military history and otherwise on personal life tends to overshadow discussion of the political context of Napoleon's career in post-recolutionary France and an emerging new European geopolitical order. Altogeher, a well-researched and documented volume.	2003-09-16
US	28657792	R1D3VEV19YJTFK	2738105904	141442956	Enfants Du Soleil Histoire De Nos Origin (French Edition)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	5 billion yrs of planetary history to children of the sun	There is no shortage of interest in France in cosmology and I am rarely disappointed by my forays into this section of any well stocked Parisian bookstore. I do not believe this book has been translated into English, which may be a pity for some readers who can also confess a love affair with the writings in the English language of Stephen Hawking, Michio Kaku, Timothy Ferris, and other cosmologists who present their popular, yet uncompromisingly disciplined histories of the cosmos. In this book, French astrophysicist Andre Brahic demonstrates his flair for conveying complex ideas in simple metaphors. The title of the book (which would be translated into English as Children of the Sun) itself conveys the stunning discovery in the twentieth century that every atom in each and every one of us was created in a star. The emphasis in this book is on the origins and nature of our solar system and less on the grander theories and discoveries of the origins and dynamics of the universe as a whole. These ideas are all delivered in chapter titles full of imagery as in a slow waltz in a falt world and a cemtery of false ideas. These literary flourishes aside, the book is a completely serious compendium of ideas which have revolutionized the profession of astronomy over the last century. The author closes his book with three wishes: that cosmological research continues at a sutsained pace, that its results are broadly diffused from pre-school through university education without sensationalism, and that his book becomes rapdily outdated by new findings that prove again the fertility and dynamism of this field.	2003-09-16
US	28657792	R20ZL6LU5BBACW	1582340498	376723457	Arafat: From Defender to Dictator	Books	4	3	4	N	N	A controversial biography of a controversial politician	I am convinced that there simply cannot be a biography of some one like Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat, which would be universally recognized as balanced and objective. The attempt in this book is by Said Aburish, a Christian Lebanese journalist based in London and who holds an American passport. Although the author feels his background qualifies him better than non-Arab writers to write such a book, I well anticipate that some, if not many, readers may see Aburish's backgound alone as enhancing or diminishing his credibility in writing a biography of a controversial personality who has been at the center of a bitterly divisive conflict in the Middle East.<br />And much as the author strives to a journalistic book, full of information which he presents as factual, his tone is hardly non-partisan and one can hardly describe his portrait of Arafat as flattering. From the beginning, Aburish asserts QUOTE without doubt UNQUOTE that Arafat's birthplace, long shrouded in mystery, is Cairo, and that, notwithstanding the time he spent among Palestinians, Arafat still speaks Arabic like an Egyptian, to the point where QUOTE West Bankers did not like his Egyptian accent and ways and found them alien.UNQUOTE The book is full of other anecdotes of Arafat's personal life, including his uneasy relationship with a father whose funeral he did not attend.<br />These journalistic anecdotes belie the character of the book which is fundamentally a political commentary on the Middle East conflict. Aburish gives credit to Arafat for three strategic choices: fostering a Palestinian identity to counter Israel rather than relying on Arag governments to do the bidding for the Palestinians; choosing armed struggle which earned the Palestinians world recogntiion; and, later, pursuing (or attempting to pursue, perhaps) a peaceful settlement with Israel. But Aburish is also categorical in his judgment that Araft is unfit to serve as a modern leader of Palestinians, comparing him to QUOTE an uneducated wily Arab chief UNQUOTE and holding him responsible for dictatorial ways which he says has supressed the Palestinian people and created a corrupt entity in the Palestinian Liberation Organization. Not surprisingly, Aburish volunteers a proposed replacement for Arafat in the triumvarate of three well-known Palestinians who have been know as able negotiators in Washington.<br />With a proper filter to sort fact from opinion and a framework for contextualizing this book, a careful reader can find value in Aburish's otherwise well written biography.	2003-09-16
US	28657792	RC39K8CQ3S4F3	0449910091	406157534	The Gutenberg Elegies: The Fate of Reading in an Electronic Age	Books	3	2	3	N	N	This book bemoans the Amazon.com readership!	Many people might argue that this Amazon.com is absolutely the wrong place to review this book - it is too biased. This is because what author Sven Birkerts bemoans are electronic technologies which rapdily supplant the printed word as the primary vehicle for communications. By getting on-line and reading, as you are right now, you contribute, Birkerts would argue, to a QUOTE state of intellectual emergency UNQOUTE which a tantamount to a Faustian pact compromising our cultural integrity.<br />How can this NOT sound unduly alarmist to anyone who spends times reading reviews or looking for books on-line?<br />There is a more charitable interpretation of Birkerts' argument, but he unfortunately does not make it convincingly, preferring to cloister himself in lavish semantic and sentimental flourishes, rather than in informed sociology or pedagogy. <br />Few can dispute that the web (which was not around when Berkerts' book was published in 1994) has introduced new assaults on literary style and analysis, and has become a powerful vehicle for all forms of abuse from plagiarism to an obfuscation of fact and fiction.<br />But have electronic technologies not also afforded the potential to enrich our literary diet and experiences?<br />Until we marshal and articulate a clearer body of evidence on these issues, Birkerts' clarion call to guard against the onslaught of electronic technologies is as helpful counsel as reverting to the labors and joys of symbolic creation through cave drawings, as our ancient literary predecessors did so well.   <br />For the moment, I will keep this book in abeyance and pursue my electronic journeys.	2003-09-16
US	28657792	RMNICY09EBVB7	0198204590	16131226	Power of News the History of Reuters	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Carrier piegon to computer:140 yrs of a global news agency	I grew up closely following, and at times getting involved in, the professional life of my father, a foreign correspondent for one of the world's four major news agencies, including at one time Reuters, the focus of this particular book. I was therefore excited to find and read this history of a major player in one of the most competitive businesses in the world - providing the world's newspapers, TV and radio stations, and the general public with comprehensive up-to-minute news from all corners of the globe 24 hours a day.<br />Reuters is a British news agency named after the German who opened an office in London in 1851 after several false starts in continental Europe to provide a news service using telegraph. From these modest beginnings, the author traces the growth of Reuters through 140 years of major events and major technological changes which fundamentally transformed the way news became reported around the world. The book is however much more than a corporate history of Reuters and is full of fascinating anecdotes of how various historical events got sent over the wires. <br />If you have an interest in the history of global news media, you will enjoy this book. My only regret is that the book does not convey a strong sense of how this inherently global business - and not just a single player - evolved. It would be a much more ambitious, but certainly greatly fascinating undertaking, to analyze the growth of the global news agency industry and the forces and stories which shaped it, including equally fasinating stories from the American and French equivalents of Reuters which are also major players - and globally known by their acronyms such as AP, AFP, and UPI.	2003-09-15
US	28657792	R2AQ6KW9MO10KC	0415282012	48877600	Theories of the Information Society (The International Library of Sociology)	Books	3	8	11	N	N	A sociologist looks at myths  of the information revolution	This book by an Oxford sociologist may bring tears, if not frustration, to Internet geeks, and information policy wonks alike. Be forewarned!<br />With so much hyperbole surrounding the computing revolution, the Internet, and the explosion in communications, it is easy to forget that most of us simply assume that a new information either now exists or is emerging. The author of this book challenges this assumption by looking at half a dozen views of the so-called information society advanced by different sociologists in recent decades. Webster in particular seems to distinguish the positions of classical socilogists like Schiller, Giddens, and Habermas from the so-called post-modern or post-industrial writings on information society of Daniel Bell, Manuel Castells, or Mark Poster.By critically examining these views, the author concludes that there is much more information available than ever before and that it plays a pivotal role in everything we do from leisure activities to business transactions to government activities, as shown by the various technical measures of information society which various writers have proposed.  However, and this is the clincher, there does not appear to be any consensus of whether the information society exists or exactly what it is supposed to look like as different from previous society.<br />Is Weber's point and his scepticism simply semantic sophistry or a substantively insightful analysis? Depending on your disposition and your appreciation of sociological literature, this is a question you will have to decide in you choose to follow the argument in this book. The author is hardly naive about the realities of technological change, but deeply questions the technological determinism which he sees many writers and thinkers implicitly assuming is shaping contemporary social relations. He prefers to think of present developments as an extension of the past, but with a greater informatization of social relations. <br />I suspect that the author's argument is subtle, and possibly valid, but he may have done well to cast his analysis in broader terms than those of an insider debate among sociologists.	2003-09-15
US	28657792	RKUHUOHUCWVS0	2711821285	659170921	Picasso vu par Brassaï (Musée Picasso Paris) (French Edition)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A terrific find at the Picasso Musuem in Paris	What a gem I was lucky to stumble upon during a Saturday afternoon stroll into the Picasso Museum in Paris!<br />This book, published in 1987 by the Museum, has a wonderful collection of black and white photographs taken by the Brassai --  a Transylvanian-born journalist turned emigre photographer in Paris -- of Picasso, Picasso's works (including sculpture and art), and Picasso's studio. Brassai (1899-1984), to whom Picasso turned as his personal photographer, is also world renowned for his photos of Paris where he engaged in multiple interests in art, literature, sculpture and cinema. Brassai also collaborated in other ways with Picasso, the painter and sculptor, including through various dialogues the two mutually admiring artists held, glimpses of which come through in the pages of this book. <br />Brassai's photographer's eye, which makes this book a visual feast, is the subject of comment by other admirers in this book, including Henry Miller.	2003-09-15
US	28657792	R355EIO8A2ZS9P	0471247367	148438882	Seeing Tomorrow: Rewriting the Rules of Risk	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Understanding risk management in everyday life	This eminently readable book is for a curious general reader who wants to better understand how modern risk management techniques can actually be applied to thinking about and making choices in everyday life. Unless you are allergic to even the most basic of probability theory and statistics, you should find that this book  places the building blocks of risk analysis - time horizons, risk measures, benchmarks and scenarios - in the hands of folks who are other than investment and risk management professionals, without entering into the arcane language of derivatives and portfolio theory.<br />But the book is not itself a key to quick riches. The authors rightly point out from the beginning how the image of the so-called science of risk management provides an illusion of security that has been disproved again and again, with a long catalogue of risk management catastrophes among major names in high finance. They quote Peter Bernstein whose book called Against the Gods (which I have also reviewed on this website) provides a historical perspective on risk management, and ask whether belief in this false security of risk management is no better a modern version of ancient faiths which placed fate in the hands of deities and shamans.<br />This book is original in that it reduces the complexity of risk to its base elements, and looks at circumstnaces of a given individual, and his or her specific risk tolerances, and the unique reasoning behind his or her choice-making. The chapters are articulated in language which is as jargon-free as possible (Sweet Regret, Keeping Up With the Joneses, The Rap Trap And Evalauton, etc.) for an important subject in which jargon unfortunately has been one of the barriers to more popular understanding.<br />While it is highly improbable that this book will help you beat the market in managing your investments, you might see how it is possible to think more systematically about common decisions such as whether to buy a house, invest in a college plan for a child, or refinance a mortageg, as well as to understand some of the complexities of public policy choices in which risk is invariably a looming factor.	2003-09-15
US	28657792	R2GP8GBY8D6IMX	0425179877	940393502	Failure is not an Option: Mission Control from Mercury to Apollo 13 and Beyond	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Mercury to Apollo: the inside scoop on the US space program	In my boyhoood, I collected news clippings of space flights like some others collected stamps. While I knew of the the complete or near-disasters of Apollo 1 and 13 which never escaped media attention, I could not imagine how many more instances of nervous questions there were on the ground at Mission Control Center (MCC) during many of the celebrated successful space shots.<br />Gene Kranz's book provides an insider's view into the inner workings of MCC, all the way from the Mercury program to the final Apollo 17 mission in 1972. Probably better suited than almost any one else to tell this story on how things looked from the ground, Kranz worked his career in NASA up to Flight Director, including for the memorable Apollo 11 and 13 flights which provide some of the most dramatic passages in the book. While the world savored the euphoria of the first men landing on the moon, Kranz tells of how he and his team were worrying about near fatal computer problems with the lunar lander. Most readers will be familiar with the Apollo 13 episode which was well enacted on the big screen with Tom Hanks , but Kranz's book provides some of the finer detail that the movie misses. <br />The book not only provides flight details of the manned spaced shots, but discuss some of the important management and technical issues which need to be resolved to move from Mercury through Gemini and Apollo. Kranz's epilogue concludes with some of his broader observatons and recommendations for future space policy. <br />Readers will be struck by the authoritarian and disciplined management style in the program, which Kranz does not easily hide. The author would probably have done well to use a ghostwriter or good editor. But apart from its prose which lacks elegance and an easy flow, this book provides an illuminating insight into how such a complex management feat was accomplished.	2003-09-15
US	28657792	RU2G0H65O3DLS	0957716540	371974547	How to Lose Friends & Infuriate People: Leadership in the Networked World	Books	4	3	4	N	N	An inspirationational writer with a difference!	I probably bought this book for the same reason many others did: its catchy iconoclastic title. What lies between its covers is a treatise on leadership, management, and personal achivement seemingly totally unlike the few inspirational gurus whose books I have skimmed or heard about. In three parts, this books covers:  1) the challenges we all face at home, at work, and within society, and issues of motivation, inspiration, belief and conviction, self control, brain power, creativity, and one's perception of the world; 2) how to work in teams, and 3) how to survive in the modern world. However, these synoptic titles will not provide clues until you actually read the book, especially if you are expecting this to be another addition to a bookshelf full of other motivational titles. <br />If you take anything from this book, be prepared to stick up for your convictions because it is unlikely that anything from this book will be supported by conventional organizational development experts and inspirtaional gurus. Some of Nader's unconventional style may seem over the top, but I recommend you approach this book sceptically and yet with an open mind which might also surprise you, in the spirit of the quote from Budha which I have provided you in my profile on this website.	2003-09-15
US	28657792	R14S89EQ99ZQAF	0340530847	165168825	Foreign Studies	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A window into the solitary Japanese traveling abroad	Although this is one of Shusaku Endo's earliest novels (published in 1965, with this English translation completed in 1989), I only stumbled upon it in January 2003 in a Tokyo bookstore. Many of the themes that pervade Endo's later novels in modern settings (see for example, Deep River, which I have also reviewed on this website) are found here in more historical settings. The book comprises three seperate narratives, all of which speak poignantly of the plight of the solitary Japanese man caught in cross-cultural currents abroad and at home. Any student who has studied in another country will be able to partly relate to sense of displacement and alientation in the first story of a young Japanese exchange student who finds a host French Christian family in Rouen shortly after Japan's defeat in World War Two. The second narrative is based on a seventeenth century Japanese character who found himself studying theology in Rome with the prospect of returning to his homeland when the Japanese persecution of Christianity began in 1614. In the third narrative, the protagonist is a Japanese man who finds himself in a more accomodating setting of Paris in 1965. You will recognize in these three characters some of the same anguish which confronts one of the main characters in Endo's more recent novel Deep River whose situation I also describe in my review of this other book as he converses with a fellow Japanese in Paris. Both these novels have strong autobiographical antecedents. Endo himself converted to Catholicism at the age of eleven, studied French literature in Japan, before going to Lyon on a French government scholarship, and then becoming one of the rare Christian Japanese writers. While it is not always easy to sympathize with Endo's characters, they do bring out the best in this genre which speaks to issues of identity and displacement of individuals whose lifes are swept by different cultural currents.	2003-09-14
US	28657792	R1JFWV4KAIMU9X	0060930179	719815318	Aphrodite: A Memoir of the Senses	Books	4	11	11	N	N	A global odysey through culinary sensuousness	For readers of Isabel Allende's novels, this might seem an unusual book. It is a passionate, unapologetic defense of the senses generally, and a catalogue of historical sexual and culinary practices punctuated with flavorful recipes, all of which place this history-cum-cookbook almost in a genre of its own. This book naturally radiates with warmth, beginning with the highly informative personal tributes Alende delivers to each of three of her major collaborators in this book, including her mother and her literary agent. The photos and drawing which are scattered throughout this book add an artistic backdrop to the evocative prose. It also made me appreciate more wholly a number of passages Allende devotes to food and cuisine in her non-ficiton book on her native Chile, My Invented Country (which I had also reviwed on this website).	2003-09-14
US	28657792	RANVIFZ0XS4Z	087584846X	787576228	Race for the World: Strategies to Build a Great Global Firm	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Business strategy for inexorable globalization	Even with the benefit of hindsight, it may not fundamentally matter how much of this book written in 1999 by four McKinsey consultants may seem overtaken by the facts of the post-Internet bubble of the late 1990s. This includes the collapse of Enron, a major McKinsey client which is nonetheless cited in this book as an agile player and adaptator to the inexorbale challenge of globalization which is at the heart of this book. It would be premature for business strategists or policy makers to wholly dismiss this book on account of such obvious errors of judgment.  <br />The basic framework within which this book views the future is shared by similar analyses done by other organizations. Because world trade has tended to grow faster than world economic output, the share of world output produced and consumed in global markets will inevitably grow rapidly - accordingly to this book, from about one-fifth of global output in the late 1990s to four-fifths by 2030. Within this time frame, total global ouptut will also grow, from $28 trillion in 1997 to $91 trillion in 2027. Whence the opportunities for a susbtantial reshaping of the competitive space for global corporations. <br />What matters is that the fundamental message of this book (which is not by itself novel) is unchanged by the contemporary drivers of competitiveness for national economies and corporations: a dramatic lowering of so-called interaction costs and of barriers in product and factor markets continues to erode the advanatges of geographic incumbents in the business world, fostering the creation of cross-geographic specialists and consolidation of traditional integrators.<BR>Drawing substantially from Mckinsey's own research and data gathered from its Fortune 500 clientele, as well as insights from unconventional non-business sources such as Jared Diamond's Guns, Germs, And Steel, the book advises global corporate leaders on how to reshape their firms and create global talent teams. The book is, not surprisingly - given the audience of the book - silent on what policy implications there are for countries which are also trying to adapt to these realities, other than the obvious imperative to open their national economies to world-class suppliers of tangible and intangible capital. There remains an important policy agenda to explore if one takes the fundamental propositions of this book seriously.	2003-09-14
US	28657792	R57ZPCCW2RRJY	0192880349	873637641	The French Secret Services: From the Dreyfus Affair to the Gulf War	Books	4	8	8	N	N	French intelligence: an academic study, not a spy thriller	Popular memory is replete with images of France's intelligence failures prior to the Second World War, and during its own Vietnam War, as well in the dramatically bungled 1985 French intelligence effort leading to the sinking of the Rainbow Warrior, a ship belonging to the environmental group Greenpeace. While these are all subjects treated in this book, Douglas Porch takes a far more penetrating look at the intelligence services of France, tracing their origins back to the ancien regime and Napolean, and looking at some lesser known sucesses. The depth of this book is impressive, given the well known propensity for secrecy among the French establishment which makes it exceedingly difficult for researchers like Porch to access relevant archives. This is a serious, academic study, and one which become even more relevant given the increased output in France during the 1990s, after this book was published in the United States, on some related subjects relating to French foreign policy. If you are interested in a less historical, less academic, and more limited English-language account of French foreign policy, including the role of its intelligence servies, try Mort Rosenblum's Mission to Civilize which I have also reviewed on this website.	2003-09-14
US	28657792	R196KJBRH1R7DK	0684825368	43758276	Millennium; A History of the Last Thousand Years	Books	4	7	10	N	N	A magisterial review of the second millennium A.D.	In embarking on histories whose geograhpical or time spans are wide, as is the case of this book, it is always useful to remind oneself of some of the conceptual traps into which one can easily fall. In this sweeping work of world history, historian Felipe Fernandez-Armesto notes at the outset a self-fulfilling delusion which the habit of thinking in terms of centuries and decades establishes. He then offers twenty-three chapters ranging across Christendom, Islamic civlization, Aztec, Mayan and other civilizations outside the Old World, and the great cilizations of Asia and Africa, where he begins his book with Japan in the year 1005 and returns there at the turn of the millenium. His analysis is selective, iconoclastic and interpretative, and his style is engaging. There may be very few popular global histories written with such an ambitious ambit and which, while containing so much rich scholarly work, avoids focusing our sights on the trees of individual nations and epochs, thus preserving our vision of the overall global historical forest. While I thoroughly enjoyed this book, I found the forward-looking futurology in the epilogue less satisfying and convincing that the preceding historical chapters, a failing which the author himself seems to anticipate.Whether cities will wither or whether so-called large states will continue to fragment, as the author speculates, are highly debatable propositions. None of this detracts from the rest of the book which is magisterial and one to which one can easily return several times.	2003-09-14
US	28657792	R3FD4KKLTRGEKX	0471295639	178332963	Against the Gods: The Remarkable Story of Risk	Books	4	17	20	N	N	Long on history, but short on risk management strategy	The title of my review is aimed at warning those expecting to find a risk management manual in this book that they will be disappointed. So will those who expect to find the links between the evolution modern statistics and acturial science to the rise of insurance markets and risk management instruments which have proliferated in this century. Many other books quite ably cover these interesting topics.<br />Instead, the author provides a broad sweeping history of how modern statistics evolved and which answers some questions of why it took so long for modern risk management institutions to emerge. Ancient Greeks, among others, who appeared to be within easy reach of developing statisical theory, nonetheless relegated their fate to the whims of gods, rather than making them amenable to analysis with probabilities and actuarial tables. Tracing modern risk management from the time of Jacob Bernoulli's attempt to develop probabilities from sample data, the author also shows how a knowledge of probabilities can ultimately generate value. QUOTE Reality is a series of conneceted events, each dependent on another, radically diffeent form games of chance in which the outcome of any single throw has zero influence on the outcome of the next throw UNQUOTE The book closes with risk management innovations that followed the emergence of financial volatlity in the 1970s.<br />Ultimately, this book may be of less interest to statisticians and investment professionals, other than those who have a curious interest in how today's highly developed set of instruments, institutions, and policies around risk came about from the foundations provided in statistical theory.	2003-09-14
US	28657792	R1AXDB6XQZODW7	0785974849	137127400	L'Obsession Anti-Americaine	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A thoughtful non-American perspective on anti-Americanism	American readers may be surprised to discover that this putatively pro-American book reached the best-seller list in France. It is written by a French intellectual and journalist who, at nearly eighty years of age, knows the United States well (having written on the same subject nearly three decades ago in a book called Ni Jesus Ni Marx or, in English, Without Jesus or Marx ). The global position of the United States having evolved considerably since his previous book, Revel takes a fresh look at this question in a larger context of debates worldwide on globalization, and not just U.S. society and foreign policy.<br />Published about a year after the events of September 11, 2001, the book takes a fresh look at the root causes of anti-Americanism, particularly in France, but also, to some extent, in Europe and the rest of the world, although some critics in France argue that he uses the book to pursue his own hidden political bias against certain French elites and domestic policies. <br />Revel examines the mixed and often contradictory dual sense of envy and contempt that the United States inspires abroad, seeking to identify which of these attitudes are objectively based. He generally contends that it was this long-established ambivalent set of feelings outside the Untied States, and not the aftermath of 9/11, which underlies the resurgence of negative attitudes to the United States.<br />Revel's style is full of irony and paradox as he takes on subjects as diverse as attitudes on globalization, foreign fears of cultural extinction from Americanisms, and foreign policy. He sees in the anti-globalization debate a deeper resentment of American ideals of economic free-market liberalism. He challenges the demonstrators at the Seattle WTO meeting or at other anti-globalziaiton rallies which periodically sprout up, to look at the contradiction between their assault on so-called unbridled market ideology of free trade and the real attempts of the WTO to create rules of trade which most developing countries are seeking to join. In an interesting final chapter, Revel blames the anti-americanism of foreign governments as actually bolstering the American superpower status which they revile.<br />To characterize this book as pro-American simply beause it challenges a wide range of attitudes that have broadly come to be seen as anti-American is to misunderstand some of the arguments Revel makes. There is some interesting historical and sociological analysis which makes reading this book a few times worthwhile if you wish to decode contemporary attitudes to the United States in a much deeper and, ultimately, more illuminating historical framework of understanding.	2003-09-14
US	28657792	R1OSY747KQ635A	1875657312	464357793	White Tribe of Asia: Indonesian View of Australia	Books	3	3	3	N	N	An Indonesian journalist looks Down Under	This is one of my more interesting picks from a second-hand bookstore in Sydney, Australia. Subtitled An Indonesian View of Australia, it was written by an Indonesian woman who was the Australian correspondent of Indonesia's largest newspaper Kompas. Although it will seem dated, more than ten years afgter its publication in 1992, it provides both Australians and foreigners alike a rare outsider's view of Australia by an observant and knowledgable individual from one of its most important neighbors. The author covers myriad subjects, from the early history of Australia and the life of its Aborigines to its colonial history,and to recent isues which remain topical such as multiculturalism, relations with Asia, land rights, security, and external affairs. This book definitely should not be missed if you think seriously about how Australia and its relationship to the rest of the world, particularly Asia, will evolve in the twenty first century. The closing paragraph in the book is optimistic of Australia's future QUOTE The change from earlier xenophobic tendencies to attitudes that are more open and relaxed will ultimately produce an Australia that is ambidextrerous, that is, able to use both hands with equal skill. Australia will be capable of relating to both the western and eastern worlds without any uncertainty and will become a place that can accomodate both, permitting the flexibility of Asia to replace the stiffness of England UNQUOTE	2003-09-14
US	28657792	R2ZUOAE8BL3PKC	0312238665	187984435	Rebels, Pretenders and Imposters	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Two British musuem curators analyze legitimacy and loyalty	This is a light-hearted, if still informative, book which I feel fortunate to have discovered in the bookstore at the British Museum in London. Written by two curators at the British Musuem in the department overseeing the coins collection, this book, well illustrated with coins and notes from different historical epochs, looks at the origins and dynamics of legitimacy, sovereignity, loyalty and rebellion in various episodes of political changes from ancient to modern times. Even though it reads more like a coin catalogue than a sociologically or historically penetrating analysis of these issues, it raises some important questions of how we come to give, withdraw, and subvert loyalty.	2003-09-14
US	28657792	R3TTDYBNXV2CF9	0020826621	599753478	Lawrence of Arabia: The Authorized Biography of T.E. Lawrence	Books	4	14	15	N	N	Restating history in the shadow of a great movie	The hero of David Lean's cinematic masterpiece of 1962 is unforgettable to anyone who has seen this marvelous movie. Jeremy Wilson attempts a meticulous, factual biography of T. E. Lawrence. His book provides a less romantic portrayal of Lawrence, who however remains a towering and distinctive personality, but emerges more as a tragic hero than the movie character. Wilson shows Lawrence's compromises with the diplomatic maneuverings of Britain and France come to the fore in this book. Another interesting chapter of Lawrence's life --not shown in the movie -- is his own writings. This book explains the context in which Lawrence's own work Seven Pillars of Wisdom came into being. While there have been several other books on Lawrence, this one is easily one that serves as the basic reference, and which looks at other biographies, some of which questions Lawrence's own accounts of his life. In one of two appendices, for example, Wilson takes up a controversy surrounding the veracity of Lawrence's claim and torture at Deraa (which is strongly hinted in the scene in the movie where Lawrence is tortured by his Turkish captors). Overall, this book is invaluable for anyone with a curiosity to go beyond the movie.	2003-09-14
US	28657792	R1I6BGERETFNIJ	0300065124	646394786	The Fourth Discontinuity: The Co-Evolution of Humans and Machines	Books	3	7	11	N	N	The human-machine relationship: history of an idea	Are humans fundamentally different from machines? Can machines ever be human like? I read this book after watching the movie Artifical Intelligence starring Robin Williams as the automaton who become increasingly human. The movie reminded me that the ideas MIT history professor Bruce Mazlish discusses in this book will remain with us, if only in artistic imagination, even if you, like me, do not find his central thesis convincing. Roughly, Mazlish sees his ideas coming on the heels of three other breaks in intellectual dichotomies in histories - between the cosmos and the Earth through the Copernican revolution, between humans and the rest of the animal kindom, through the Darwinian revolution, and between the conscious and the sub-conscious through the Freudian revoltuion. Mazlish's contention is that there is no apparent limit to the expansion of intelligence of machines, to the point where he is willing to concede that computers will someday be endowed with emotions. Many might find these propositions outlandish. Even if you do, it should not detract you from the bulk of the book which is a good history of inventions and ideas, from Ancients Greeks and Chinese through the Renaissance and modern period, surrounding the capabilities of automatons or robots, and how these were also reflected in literature (for example, Frankenstein) and philosophy. This history of a set of ideas about the relationship between humans and the machines they create - but not necessarily the interpretation which Mazlish then gives them - is what this book should be valued for.	2003-09-14
US	28657792	R1U5U8HPMJ8VVX	1558611797	918038115	Among the White Moon Faces: An Asian-American Memoir of Homelands (The Cross-Cultural Memoir Series)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A distinct contribution to cross-cultural biography	This book is a distinct contribution to the genre of cross-cultural literature which deal with themes of identity and displacement. Although many American reviewers describe her as an Asian-American writer, this description fails to capture the unique perspective she brings from her origins from one of the smaller Asian countries (Malaysia) which has contributed relatively fewer immigrants to the United States than have other sources of Asian-America writers - Korea, Japan, Vietnam, or China. Sharing some of the author's background in having also grown up in Malaysia and studied in the United States as a student, I was personally attracted to this book. In this autobiography, Shirley Lim explores identity and adaptation in multiple settings, from growing up in a Chinese community in multi-racial Malaysia before and after independence from British colonial rule, through her student experiences in the United States which finally becomes the adopted home where is teaches college students and is a writer. Her style is witty, direct, and intensely personal, and powerfully conveys the sense of otherness and acute observation which comes with being caught in cultural cross-currents. I recommend this highly.	2003-09-14
US	28657792	R18C4CJRQBXGWS	0671244094	917728591	The Path Between the Seas: The Creation of the Panama Canal, 1870-1914	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A history of personal and diplomatic triumphs and failings	Jimmy Carter - under whose administration negotiations were completed to return the Panama Canal to Panama - reportedly stayed up until 4 am reading this book. I myself competed this volume while living in Panama in 1989, and recently re-read major parts of it. It remains the singular reference for a history of what is much more than the monumental engineering feat of digging this canal between the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans (which itself is the focus of one chapter aptly titled QWUOTE The Incredible Task UNQUOTE). McCullough masterfully portrays the personal triumps and defeats of numerous individuals associated with this project, no less those of the Frenchman Ferdinand de Lesseps who ends up in bankruptcy after vigorously promoting his Panama Canal brainchild. Beyond describing individual characters, the author lays out the diplomatic maneuverings of various nations concerned with this venture which led the United States to its forceful role in shaping the history of this region, one which came to haunt it later. A truly monumental book.	2003-09-14
US	28657792	RMMQC4U80FA4X	0140253173	66324477	Freedom from Fear and Other Writings: Revised Edition	Books	4	19	19	N	N	The eloquent voice of an often forgotten but mighty land	I re-read this book shortly after Aung San Suu Kyi was placed, once again, under house arrest in 2003. The daughter of the man who is referred as the founding father of Burma(today called Myanmar) - Aung San - is herself a major political figure in her country. The chapter about her father - who was assassinated when the author was two years old - is an impressive, informative, and dispassionate account of Aung San's days as a student leader and his leadership of the independence movement that established modern Burma as a nation. My own father was a foreign correspondent in Burma in the late 1940s and had covered the assassination of Aung San and his colleagues. This left me since my childhood with a deep curiosity about this period of Burmese history - and Aung San's daughter's account does not leave curious readers like myself disappointed. Most of the book is devoted to the life and times of Suu Kyi herself. It includes several articles by other writers who help readers understand how a Burmese woman rises to national prominence in a country which has known but unbroken military dictatorship for decades. This book is also about Burmese culture, religion, and language, and should be on the bookshelf on anyone who has a serious interest in this curious, wretched country of tremendous unfulfilled potential.<br />If you have an interest in Burmese or Southeast Asian history, you might also consider reading Amitav Ghosh's The Glass Palace, a historical novel which I have also reviewed on this website.	2003-09-13
US	28657792	R2FQYNF7E8CKMT	0767903196	818206855	On Mexican Time: A New Life in San Miguel	Books	4	6	8	N	N	A vicarious journey to the central highlands of Mexico	More than other parts of Mexico I have visited, San Miguel de Allende and its environs are where I have especially imagined spending time beyond just the brief week or two of a touristic sojourn.  This book helped me more than just relive memories of my short trip there. Tony Colhan avoids lapsing into the belabored genre of expatriate dispatches from a charmed existence in a bucolic, exotic setting. Spanning about fifteen years of his life in San Allende with his wife, Colhan?s book weaves a tapestry of sights, sounds, smells, history, characters, and autobiography into an immensely readable paperback.<br />Selective extracts best convey how the author ably sprinkles the text with evocative imagery of  la vida y sabor mainly of San Miguel de Allende, but also of its environs, the countryside, and also Mexico City, which is just a ride several hours away. Markets, restaurants, foods, and flavors pervade the text QUOTE  a squash flower soup, flor de cabeza, which arrives in a deep brick red bowl, a color as pure and soft as the soup?s flavor?.fried sugar twists called churros?.fresh fruit drinks called licaudos in fat soda glasses?a necklace of garlic hangs from a nail?.a bowl full of dried red chiles sits on a tiled counter?among a pile of green calabaza squash topped by orange flowers, a flopping red fish?s glassy eye looks balefully up at me?happy eaters gather around a sizzling grill of carnitas, ender cooked pork parts?we discover ensalada chicharron, a mixed vegetable salad garnished  with low-rent fried pork rinds and a squeeze of lime to become a delicacy?.drip-sweet strawberries in plastic cups with lethal dollops of whipped cream?UNQUOTE<br />The book has a natural rhythm through its flow of seasonal changes QUOTE Since January the hillsides have mutated from ocher to moss green..the summer air holds new fragrances: jasmine, tuberoses, citrus?. UNQUOTE The unique historical position of San Miguel de Allende is injected in small doses in between culinary references and characters descriptions QUOTE The emperor Maximilian was slain in Querataro an hour away?It was here that the priest Hidalgo hoisted aloft a painting of the Virgin of Guadalupe and cried Death to the Spaniards! Igniting the revolution against Spain?. UNQUOTE<br />But what the author does most compellingly is to weave into what might otherwise be a travelogue his own personal motivations and evolution, from the time he and his wife sell their Los Angeles and move across the border into this quiet Mexican town in the central highlands which changes over fifteen years QUOTE  [Describing their married existence in L.A.] Tangled in adulthood?s web, pumping out the tasks: we?ve barely had time to look up?.[describing early days in San Miguel] Each morning, exempt from whatever unconscious semiotics guided our choice of appearance in urban America, we choose a short or blouse out of pure whim, eat what and when we wish, speak whatever comes to mind?.UNQUOTE As the years pass, the author portray the changes from the few transient foreigners, old retirees, and aging bohemians in the scenery of their early years to the droves of baby boomers buying up old houses, starting businesses, to the two Internet servers that the authors finally acquire.<br />In short, a very pleasant read that will bring you closer to the culture, history and people of this sensuous country.	2003-09-13
US	28657792	R1XFBPNW5UGC03	0312168276	875422478	Eva Peron: A Biography	Books	3	12	12	N	N	A biography which lapses into romantic best-seller style	I have yet to find an entirely satisfactory biography of Argentina's controversial first lady once widely revered as a saintly Madonna. This book is written chronologically, from the subject's birth in an unremarkable Argentinean provincial town, to her death and the return of her body to Argentina in 1974. It strives to be balanced and to summarize the evidence around various controversial points regarding the life of Eva Peron.<br />Unfortunately, this book, written by a Paris-based Argentinean-born journalist, while thoroughly entertaining, can hardly qualify as a serious historical or political analysis of Eva Peron and her times. Having only read the English version, it is hard to judge whether the translation is awkward is some places, or whether the original prose also lapses into a saccharine style of romantic best sellers. Even as a journalistic book on this subject, you might find a better, more articulate, and shorter account (which does draw from this book by Ortiz) in Looking for History: Dispatches from Latin America, by Alma Guillermoprieto (which I have also reviewed of this website). <br />There are some interesting photos in this book, but if it is photos of Evita and her times which interest you, I would recommend Evita: An Intimate Portrait of Eva Peron, by Tomas De Elia, which I have also reviewed on this site.	2003-09-12
US	28657792	R3IWSU9JEW5YDQ	0195130820	130060900	Impossibility: The Limits of Science and the Science of Limits	Books	4	15	18	N	N	A torturous text on paradoxes of knowing what is unknowable	Is science fast coming to an end? Can we arrive at a so-called theory of everything? Are there limits to our abilities to discover the nature of reality?<br />In trying to tackle such questions, Astronomer John D. Barrow invites readers to an intriguing journey which I understood as twofold. First, it promises to show how the notion of impossibility is far subtler than everyday language suggests and to demonstrate how fundamental are the limitations to science (in the broadest sense of human capability to discover and know things).  To support this contention, he serves up a menu of what seems like disjointed readings into the limits of human endeavor as demonstrated in findings in different fields such as astronomy, mathematics, psychology, economics, and others. Each of these readings, which are sub-sections of chapters, is individually interesting and the book overall is not deeply technical, -- and thus remains accessible to the truly curious generalist reader. It covers some familiar basic ideas in different fields, which all depict the notions of limits and impossibility, whether in scientific discovery or in social decision-making. The topics range from the technical bounds to scientific experiments, such the speed of light and difficulties of producing the extremely high temperatures not found on earth which are needed to test our version of the forces of nature, to Arrow's impossibility theorem on the inability to generate a consistent ranking of social preferences based on an aggregation of ranking of individual preferences. <br />Unfortunately, these sub-sections of chapters, while individually very interesting and clearly written, tend to conflate different ideas of impossibility rather than leading to a straightforward conclusion on the fundamental limitations of human endeavors of creation and discovery. <br />The secondary thrust of the book is on the nature of reality itself. Barrow argues that the kind of limitations he enumerates defines the universe more powerfully than a list of what we think is possible. In fact, he contends that this ?impossible? nature of the universe is what itself allows the self-reflection consciousness of humans, a rather intriguing, if not entirely novel, proposition. <br />My judgment on this book is a complex as the range of subjects the author attempts to cover. It is without doubt an intriguing set of propositions loosely connected with some related discussion on the history of scientific thought. I found the discussion of nineteenth century notions of impossibility very informative. However, the book may achieve its appeal by overstating its case (QUOTE the astronomers? desire to understand the structure of the universe is doomed merely to scratch the surface of the cosmological problem UNQUOTE) and resorting to fast and loose comparisons of paradoxes and limits which are well-known to practitioners in a number of different fields. Ultimately, the book gives a sense of having covered too much, and thus providing too little in any given area.<br />I confess that notwithstanding these reservations, I enjoyed reading this somewhat unusual book. If you do have the stamina to complete this book, you might choose to do so in a non-linear fashion by working through the clear summaries of each chapter first, and then going through the chapters in your order of preference. If you manage to do all this, you are likely to enjoy another book on a different but related topic on the nature of the human mind entitled ?Figments of Reality? by Stewart and Cohen  which I have also reviewed on this site.	2003-09-12
US	28657792	R37464VCLFADQU	0805044914	394531630	The War Within: America's Battle over Vietnam	Books	4	6	6	N	N	An interpretative chronology of the antiwar movement	If you feel you missed out on the sixties pro or antiwar movements, this book is you chance to vicariously capture the sequence of events, year by year from 1965 to 1975. And if you were a participant, this book will set your experience in some broader context.<br />Wells provides an almost encyclopedic chronological narrative replete with interviews. Its appearance a few years after the 1991 Gulf War also provides some perspective on how American attitudes have evolved. Wells contends that the American movement against the Vietnam war was perhaps the most successful antiwar movement in history. Nonethelss, America's surprisingly quick victory with minimal casualties in the 19912 Gulf may have reshaped the view of the military option which had haunted American foreign policy since the 1970s.<br />Wells concludes QUOTE So, while the public remains opposed to the spilling of American blood overseas, it seems prepared to accept - even cheer - the swift, continued use of American force. The Vietnam syndrome continues to give Washington pause. But whether it will prevent other unnecessary conflicts is, sadly, open to doubt UNQUOTE	2003-09-11
US	28657792	R3TO01PZ4858C8	0521571553	300760487	Figments of Reality: The Evolution of the Curious Mind	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Life, consciousness, mind, and reality explained	How does life arise from inanimate matter? How does consciousness arise from life? Is consciousness of the universe an illusion? Or is mind itself an illusion?<br />The British authors of this book are a mathematician and biologist pair who boldly tackle these classic questions in philosophy with some original approaches. Maintaining that life, consciousness, and culture cannot understood by reducing them to the material elements from which they arise, the authors deftly develop a set of interesting concepts. Some of these are not especially original, but they are presented in an unusual light particularly as the authors ably illustrate them with very accessible descriptions of complex biochemical pathways of living matter.<br />A key concept is that of emergence - well established in philosophy and roughly equated to the popular idea of the whole being more than the sum of its parts. The authors couple this concept with one of their own - complicity, or the interaction of different things which lead them to become entirely new things. A third, among several others, is that of extelligence which arises from the interaction of the intellegences of individuals and is rooted in human culture. Using these and other concepts, the book, which is at the nexus of science and philosophy, seeks to explain how life, consciousness, culture, and reality arise and the relationship between them.<br />Be prepared to wade through these pages slowly to enjoy the masterful exposition of this book. Or, if you find this tedious, enjoy the elegant prose which uses the lens of science and philosophy to describe events which we might normally frame in different language. In the four-page prologue, a graphic sequence of events unfolds which chart the creation of the universe to the emergence of the symbolic literary creatures which constitute the human species: QUOTE Fifteen thousand million years ago the universe was no bigger than the dot at the end of this sentence......today, the two descendants of those tiny creatures are busy delineating their own limited version of the entire story in strange, angular geometric symbols impressed in contrasting pigment upon sheets of impressed white vegetable matter. UNQUOTE <br />Having long forgotten more than half the courses I took in college, this book allowed me to relive and reinforce the pleasures of two wonderful philosophy seminars - on theories of mind and philosophy of science. Expect, if you get through the book cover to cover, to see the world a little differently from when you start at the prologue.	2003-09-10
US	28657792	R2EA13PCMN87C2	0312288573	837137898	Fear and Trembling: A Novel	Books	3	11	17	N	N	Wonderful entertainment demanding a cautious read	I am usually well inclined to fiction which attempts to portray the journey of characters through several aspects of different cultures and have a large collection of such books from many countries. Reading this particular book by a Belgian writer who lived in Japan however reminded me that one enters into this genre of displacement and cross-cultural ventures with both promises of entertainment and insight and perils of reinforcing stereotypes. <br />I do not consider myself an expert on Japan, a country I have visited several times and several of whose novelists (Kawabata, Mishima, Endo, and others) I have read in translation. However, over the years I have followed in depth the experiences of many of my close non-Japanese friends who have carefully labored to study the language and culture, worked in similar Japanese organizations to the one described in this novel, and even married and settled in this land of persistently refractory attitudes to foreigners.<br />I thus read this novel (which is short and easily completed in an hour or two) with mixed feelings. The characters are vivid and the plot is entertaining. The scenes are both horrific and hilarious, partly because they are also caricatured. This includes the final scene where the protagonist is forced to grovel in submitting her resignation from a Japanese import-export firm, lamenting that her &quot;Western brain is inferior to the Japanese brain&quot; to the delight of her Japanese nemesis.<br />My dominant reaction was however one of horror with the stereotypes that the book simplistically designs and reinforces of Japanese attitudes toward women and foreigners. Like all stereotypes, there can always be an element of truth in them. I have certainly heard some of my (female) non-Japanese friends report experiences not unsimilar to those portrayed in this novel. However, this novel seems unrepentingly obsessed with them, and has no insightful descriptions of art, scenery, language, history, or other aspect of Japanese culture which might bring some balance and context to its outlandish caricatures.   <br />This may be a harsh judgment on a book which, after all, won the Grand Prix of the Academie Francaise and the Prix Internet du Louvre. But it is especially an appeal for this genre of fiction to achieve some verisimilitude to the culture(s) it portrays, and not hide behind the easy pretext of literary license or read-made stereotypes. On this score, this book should hardly be a best standard for its genre.	2003-09-08
US	28657792	R224HF4QOX5DST	0738204285	357449617	The Language Imperative: The Power of Language to Enrich Your Life and Expand Your Mind	Books	3	11	11	N	N	A well research defense of multi-lingualism	I have grown up continuously listening to and also speaking several languages. I have studied in three different continents. In my professional life and my dealings with many countries, I use three or more languages and am in an professional environment where several languages are spoken in my workplace. I have developed close professional and personal relationships in at least two languages (English and French). For these and other reasons, I therefore naturally gravitated to this book which examines key questions such as whether language affects human perceptions and what are the links between language and culture.<br />Notwithstanding some marvelous research to its credit and mercifully straightforward language in a field (pyscholingusitics) famous for its obscure and inacessible jargon, the book fell short of my expectations. <br />In retrospect, I believe it was because it embarked on a scope which was too broad and at the same time too narrow. Too broad, I think, because it tackles questions which are on one hand empirical - and thus the realm of science (e.g. how does language affect culture)- and on the other hand, normative - and the realm of policy (should we have a single language which everyone learns worldwide?). While the author should be admired for attempting to broach such a wide agenda, clearly in the interests of readability for a general non-specialist audience (including myself), I often found the discussion confusing these different sets of questions and thus somewhat inconclusive on both.<br />Furthermore, the treatment might also be too narrow by its almost exclusive focus on issues prevalent in contemporary policy debate in the United States (e.g. bilingual education and language choices at home in immigrant homes). Deeper insights on these questions could be gained by considering how these issues have played out in many countries which afford a perspective both on the empirical and policy issues.I will cite only one of several examples of such countries which I know well - the island of Mauritius, where English is the official language reflecting its recent colonial history, but where a majority feel more comfortable in French because of a longer French colonial presence earlier in history, and where other languages - notably creole and bojphuri - are also spoken). I well expect however that worldwide research on these issues has still not matured, although I would have appreciated a clearer statement of the state of the art on this subject.  <br />On the second point, I should fairly point out that the author seems very well aware of the global dimensions of these issues. The book is in fact replete with references to different countries, languages and cultures. But nowhere does it focus deeply on how other countries outside the United States are struggling with many of the same policy issues.<BR> <BR>This critique aside, I learned much from this book. One of several insightful observations I  enjoyed in this book, which was also conveyed in straightforward language,  concerns how science fiction writers depict languages which non-terrestrial beings might use. Not surprisingly, the author notes, every single one of these fictitious languages turns out to contain characteristics found in human languages because, the author aruges, what counts as a language is part of what it is to be human. This statement by the author in fact turns out to be quite profound on further reflexion.<br />I also enjoyed the transparency and clarity of the author, particularly in her clearly laying down at the start the questions on whcih she focuses and also warning the reader in advance on her position on these questions which are still controversial. <br />Altogether, this book is a worthwile read in a field where much more such writing is needed as language issues are impinging more and more on domestic and external politics across the world.	2003-09-08
US	28657792	R2NJP9T99ERRSK	1891620835	126638302	Here: A Biography of the New American Continent	Books	4	1	1	N	N	North American colossus and the NAFTA dream	In his preface to this book, New York Times journalist Anthony DePalma laments the historical distortions he acquired growing up in the United States. He writes QUOTE We don't think much about Canada or Mexico at all, because they are too close, too common UNQUOTE <br />His words echoed two personal experiences which immediately came to mind. As a student in Paris, I was once invited by an American friend to her college &quot;junior year abroad&quot; class in international politics taught by a well-known French political scientist. Asking the class what was the name of the ruling political party in Mexico, he got blank stares from his fifty odd young and eager U.S. internationalists.<br />Later, some French Canadian friends gave me a tape of songs by leading singers from Quebec (Charlebois, Gagnons, and others). Only once in the dozens of times I played this tape for friends in the United States was it recognized as a contemporary product from our northern neighbor.<br />I therefore found appealing DiPalma's invitation to take his readers on a journey of discovery reflecting his six years of reportage from Mexico and Canada for the New York Times. DiPalma couples highly readable analysis of both the history of both countries, including in relation to the United States, and their recent politics, particularly in the 1990s. He writes eloquently and hopefully of a future which he is believes is destined to link the three countries even more closely, placing special emphasis on the &quot;triple elections of 2000&quot; when new administrations were elected in all three countries. QUOTE From 1993 to 2000, North America evolved from being defined solely as three seperate nations divided by two borders on one continent to being a community of shared interest, common dreams, and coordinated responses to problems that have no regard for borders. UNQUOTE<br />DiPalma's optimistic outlook on the future relations of these three neighbors might seem to short shrift the real difficulties and controversies surrounding some aspects of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) which he analyzes in a positive light against the historical backdrop developed in this book. Clearly, it was not his intention to make these debates a major focus of his book.<br />I have no doubt that better understanding in all three countries of each other's politics and history will be critical in the twenty frist century. I found this book to be one of the few existing attempts to take a truly &quot;North American perspective&quot; on the trilateral relations between Canada, the United States, and Mexico, and one which is grounded in a broad, if somewhat selective, view of the histories of the three countries, and thus the continent. Hopefully, readers in the United States will welcome it as a positive contribution to increasing their historical and geographical literacy of their own backyard.	2003-09-08
US	28657792	R1YXBVFZNM0JMS	0375725822	235600074	Looking for History: Dispatches from Latin America	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A savvy journalist looks at Latin America	In a collection of seventeen articles focusing on six Latin American countries (Argentina, Colombia, Peru, Maxico,and Cuba), New York Times journalist Ana Guillermoprieto serves up a highly literate and gracefully scripted collage of Latin America today. The limited selection of countries and issues should not detract from the value of this book in understanding the region as a whole, for each of the sets of articles offers some broader insight beyond just the personalities or countries described. The author artfully combines first-hand interviews and reportage from the region with research and masterfully chosen extracts from other important books on this region. <br />Her concise piece on Eva Peron is illustrative of her incisiveness and left me better informed than other sources on this somewhat mystifying subject ( see, for example, Evita: An Intimate Portrait of Eva Peron, which I have also reviewed on this website.). By ably reviewing the literature and carefully distinguishing between fact, hearsay, and speculation, the author unravels some myseries surrounding this QUOTE bland and to all appearances untalented girl, born illegitimate and on a ranch...possesed of an unreconstructed working-class accent and an unfailing gauche manner..in a country where upper-class snobbery reaches extremes of refinement and viciousness UNQUOTE <br />I also enjoyed an excellent piece on Peruvian writer turned presidential candidate Mario Vargas Llosa whose biographcial sketch the author weaves into a broader portrait of Peruvian politics and society in the 1990s.<br />The pieces on Colombia, Mexico, and Cuba may seem dated at first glance, but in fact provide penetrating insights into the Zapatistas, Colombia's civil strife, and Castro. Among books on Latin America, it is unusual in its ability to avoid pretending to be apolitical, while not falling prey to a facile ideological analysis. <br />This book is a reflection of journalism at its best and is written by someone who isnot simply peering into Latin America with an outsider's eye, but has a deep sense of the myths, conflicts, and legacies that gives soul to this part of the world. This book should not be a disappointment to anyone with more than a passing interest in Latin America. You may also consider complementing this book with a more pictorial account of this region (see, for example, America Latina by Fabienne Rousso-Lenoir, which I have also reviewed on this website).	2003-09-08
US	28657792	R24W003RXY5CVB	037550477X	280343045	The Coming Collapse of China	Books	4	8	15	N	N	Daring and thoughtful prgonosis of China's prospects	The title of this book may appear unduly alarmist for many readers who have seen a decade of positive news reports of record-setting economic growth in an ancient nation which is home to nearly one-quarter of humanity.<br />But Gordon Chang cannot be easily dismissed as alarmist. As an American lawyer based in Shanghai when he wrote this book, he brings over two decades of China experience to his well grounded analysis of incipent problems in the Chinese financial and enterprise system and the contradictions between pursuing market-based reforms while maintaining a one-party monopoly on political power.<br />I recommend that the prsopective reader not be put off by the alarmist title nor the recurrent attempts in the book to play soothsayer when hard-nosed analyst would have seemed sufficient. One might even suspect that this son of an emigre from China who left before the Second World War has an ax to grind. None of this should detract from what is otherwise a soundly written book. In fact, events since this book was written, including the recent SARS episode, give further food for thought to the central thesis of this book.<br />This book is important for anyone who recognizes that the trajectory of political change in China will have deep implications of how many global trade, environmental, and security issues will be resolved in the twenty first century.	2003-09-08
US	28657792	RQFEY69VHPKH7	0241135737	702221758	Idea of India	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Indian politics:subtle,sophisticated & articulate analysis	I believe that this is one of the most intelligent and articulate books on Indian politics ever written.  Sunil Khilnani, a professor of politics at Cambridge, brings unyielding subtlety and sophistication in a book which well matches the complexity and contradictions of Indian politics. He artfully demonstrates and corrects such simplistic and prevalent misconceptions as surrounding the nature and origins of India's early state-led industrialization or the nature of its democracy.<br />A somewhat longish extract will illustrate the subtleties of various concepts that the author elegantly develops in this magnificient work: <br />QUOTE In India, democracy has had to function in a society of peculiar complexity where many different temporal and historical plans coexist. Indian continues to be a predominantly agrarian society, whose people are not indifferent to religion, and where the individual does not have a strong political or social presence. But towering over that society today is the state. This state is far from supremely effective: it regulalry fails to protect its citizens against physical violence, it does not provide them with welfare, and it has not fulfilled its extensive ambitions to transform Indian society. Yet it is today at the very centre of the Indian political imagination. Until little over a century ago, the social order of caste had made the state largely redundant...The past fifty years have trenchantly displayed the powers of the state and of the idea of democracy to reconstitute the antique social identities of India - caste and religion - and to force them to face and enter politics.<BR>UNQUOTE<br />If you have wondered why so many books  have failed to effectively unravel and interpret the intricacies of political evolution of this entity called India, Khilnani's analysis will be a welcome eye opener.	2003-09-08
US	28657792	RZ641J264YQPO	0385720742	490478479	India Unbound: The Social and Economic Revolution from Independence to the Global Information Age	Books	5	1	1	N	N	On the slow but steady road to prosperity	As former CEO of Procter &amp; Gamble in India, Gurcharan Das seems eminently qualified to describe how policy reforms in the early 1990s finally broke the stranglehold of the License Raj on Indian's enormous economic potential. His prognosis that half of India could turn middle class by the first quarter of this century, while somewhat optimistic, is not out of line with what many analysts agree is certainly possible. <br />Much of this book is an indictment of past policy failures and an relatively upbeat assesment of India's future economic prospects. Das delivers this in elegant, readable prose with analysis which is generally well backed by statistics.<br />There are many quotable extracts from this book, but I will limit myself to one which draws from his comparison of India's economic performance to the faster growing East Asian economies until the onset of the 1997 crisis QUOTE India did not participate in this great adventure. We grew up believing that our mixed economy - the mixture of socialism and the free market that grew out of Jawaharlal Nehru's idealist vision - though not as efficient as capitalism, was better because it cared for the poor. It was better than communism because it preserved political freedoms. But its problem was of performance, not of faith. If it had worked, most of the Third World would be more prosperous today. Indians have learned from painful  experience that the state does not work on behalf of the people. More often than not, it works on behalf of itself. UNQUOTE<br />Not having grown up in India, I am less sure whether readers in India will find many parts of this book as informative as it certainly will be for many, if not most foreign readers. But they will surely share much of Das' view that a profound transformational change is underway in this nation, even if its boat to prosperity has been slower than elsewhere.	2003-09-08
US	28657792	R3T5PWWNX5CD55	0571205828	506162225	Dark Heart of Italy	Books	5	15	17	N	N	Beyond the Tuscan sun: 21st century Italian politics	If your interest in Italy goes beyond travel guides to Tuscany, Florence, and Rome (which I have also reviewed on this website), you might find this analysis of Italian politics and society at the turn of the century very informative. Even while I was enjoying monuments and countryside in Venice and Tuscany, I found it hard to put down the sober assessment of Italian society and politics in this book which I picked up in a Roman bookstore.<br />For Jones, a British author, is not an occasional visitor to Italy, but instead spent four years travelling through the Italian peninsula seeking to unravel some of its enigmatic political institutions and attitudes. Much of the book is solidly researched and he extensively draws from numerous references in Italian which he translates himself. Knowing well that much of this beautiful country is well described elsewhere, he does not seek to prettify any of the issues he discusses, whether it is political corruption (a major theme of the book), religion, or football.<br />For example, his chapter on the workings of Italy's Slaughter Commission, a parlimentary investigation into a series of bloody bombings in Italian cities from the 1960s to the 1980s, is a chilling account of paralysis of Italian political institutions. Documenting the almost surreal investigation of the Piazza Fontana bombings of 1969, he observes: QUOTE The irony is that Italy, so painfully legalistic, is as a result almost lawless. If you've got so many laws, they can do anything for you. You can twist them, reaarange them, rewrite them. Here, laws or facts are like playing cards: you simply have to shuffle them and fan them out to suit yourself UNQUOTE<br />As the title suggests, this book is a far cry from the more bucolic images found in Italian travel guides. I found it highly readable and insightful.	2003-09-08
US	28657792	R32EEG8IZZFZYC	1402505396	406271874	Founding Brothers	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Early American politics: readable yet sophisticated history	This book shows the author?s unusual knack for sharpening one?s understanding of the circumstances, issues, and forces which shaped the early history of the American republic by using as foil discrete episodes of this period which rarely come to the fore in other histories. Joseph Ellis chooses six episodes from which he launches a broader portrait of these times: the duel between Aaron Burr and Alexander Hamilton; the debate over the location of the permanent capital, an issue broached at a dinner at Thomas Jefferson?s house to which Hamilton and James Madison are his dinner guests; Washington?s Farewell Address; Adams? political partnership with his wife; the clash between Franklin and Madison over attempts to force Congress to tackle the slavery issue not longer after is was temporarily buried by the Constitutional Congress; and the correspondence between Jefferson and Adams.  The book reads like a combination of separate stories woven into a fabric of political historical analysis of this period. While Ellis choice of six discrete events and the seven individuals who are his prime focus ? Hamilton, Jefferson, Madison, Burr, Franklin, Adams, and Washington ? seems eclectic, he masterfully weaves from the minutiae of these fragments of history a compelling broader portrait of the fragility of early American political institutions and processes which went on to create the longest enduring modern republic.  The opening chapter on the Hamilton-Burr duel seems out of place with its apparently lesser focus on political issues of the times. However, it serves as a potent antidote to the traditional veneration of the ?Founding Fathers? -- reminding us that they were all individuals flawed in different ways.	2003-09-07
US	28657792	R2JKXZS39DMYYP	0679768114	351215412	The Future of Life	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A top biologist's prognosis of the future of humanity	I have more often than not been disappointed by books which deal with the topic(s) of an economically, biologically, and socially sustainable future.  Either I was left to wonder whether the scientific or economic evidence put forth was incomplete or suspect, thereby producing unsubstantiated optimism or pessimism, or I have found the policy prescriptions unclear. This eloquent paperback by one of the world's foremost biologists did not leave me disappointed.<br />On a purely personal note, I found this book to take off where several of my earlier academic and professional experiences had introduced questions. I encountered some of the scientific issues in Wilson's book in my freshman year in college in a course on evolution and, later, in a seminar on recombinant DNA, at the same time when Wilson's pioneering book on sociobiology was published. In my professional life, as a non-scientist, my travels to many of the countries Wilson refers to in this book opened my eyes to some troubling prospects. I have included in various travelogues to friends and family tales of the possibly shortest world record of discovery and extinction of species in the Indian Ocean island Madagascar, and of the probabability, within fifty years or less, of total submersion of island nations in the Pacific like the atolls of Kiribati.<br />Wilson brings to his analysis of these and other issues of species extinction, climate change, depletion of fresh water and arable land, a rare combination of eloquent, accessible, and level-headed statement of scientific evidence on one hand, and clarity of policy prescription on the other. Both as a non-scientist passionately favorable to a much higher level of scientific literacy among the general public and as a professional committed to international economic development, I was delighted at this exposition on the prospects of humanity. <br />Wilson is fundamentally optimistic about the options available to deal with pressing environmental challenges,even while he firmly asserts his belief in the clear and present danger of many past and present patterns of production and consumption. He uses an admittedly caricatured dialogue between an \\"economist\\" and an \\"environmentalist\\" to illustrate purported tensions between prevailing patterns of economic consumption and production and evidence of resource strains on the biosphere. But, unlike some other presentations on similar issues, Wilson does not cast his arguments in simplistic neo-Malthusian terms or in diatribes against globalization. Instead, he coolly appeals to what he considers as a growing consensus among many professionals, scientists, conservationists, economists, and others - with the exception of QUOTE the most politically conservative of their public interpreters UNQUOTE - that the essential facts point to some inevitable choices in how we continue to exploit resources of the biosphere. <br /> While his 12-point policy prescriptions on pages 160-64 may seem broad, and even unsurprising, the strength of his book lies in the fact that he compactly marshals an array of complex scientific and economic evidence while avoiding pretensions of scientific certitude where evidence is lacking. He does not shy from admitting that certain of his positions - shared by many others - for example, on preserving species diversity, cannot be fully supported by scientific evidence or economic argumentation, but he does not shy away from making reasonable and transparent appeals to humanist values. QUOTE The case against humans for the extinction of the megfauna is built solely on circumstantial evidence, but the facts would win at least an indictment in any court of law UNQUOTE I confess I was left unsure how deeply to concerned at his report of the epitaph in a London zoo to the last member of a rare species of snails QUOTE  1.5 MILLION YEARS B.C. TO JANUARY 1996 UNQUOTE<br />I would not disagree that many of his policy prescriptions or analysis are hardly novel. I am nonetheless encouraged that they are articulated by one of the world's most renowned biologist. Outside of its policy prescriptions, many of the purely scientific speculations in this book are presented with great eloquence.  While I clearly enjoyed the entire book, I especially found the first chapter on species diversity enlightening, with its exposition of why the emergence of numerous species in very extreme and isolated terrestrial conditions suggest the high probability of finding life elsewhere in similar conditions elsewhere in our galaxy. <br />If nothing else, I am sure many readers will enjoy the superb imagery in Wilson's imaginary letter to Henry Thoreau in the preface in which Wilson  describes a gargantuan battle between an army of red and black ants so vividly that you can easily imagine the same graphic prose to describe the triumph of a superior army of human enslavers against their vanquished victims whose offspring submit into voluntary servitude at birth from some innate instinct.	2003-09-06
US	28657792	R3HGSRHSTT9M9N	0618056734	750191808	Unweaving the Rainbow: Science, Delusion and the Appetite for Wonder	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Who is afraid of good science destroying aesthetics?	As someone who enjoyed this book in particular, and who enjoys books on science in general, I am bewildered by some of its very negative reviews. I am however conscious of some of its limitations. One reason might be that this otherwise wonderful book covers so many different ideas, and often unevenly.  I could see why it would be easy to have unmet expectations. So it is helpful first to be clear about some of the topics this book is NOT fundamentally about:  a systematic exposition of the scientific method; the history of science; the mind-body debate; evolutionary biology (not particularly, even though this is the author?s specialty); and how poets and artists might do a better job in their works of representing science.<br />Even if the somewhat meandering manner of the book does not upset you, you might be upset by Dawkins? rhetorical style (I was not) .  You might prefer more subtlety to his no-holds-barred approach to labeling some of the enemies of good science. The catalogue includes: ?pseudo-scientists?.populist dumbing down?hostility from academics sophisticated in fashionable disciplines?purveyors of cultural relativism?few vocal fifth columnists within science?.?  He has no compunction in bemoaning a lack of either understanding or appreciation of science from many of the titans of the world of arts and poetry including Coleridge, Keats, and Ruskin, among others. <br />So, why is this a worthy read? I believe it is because Dawkins tackles a subject which is fundamental to what it means to be human. It is also a subject which few writers, scientists or non-scientists, handle well: why good science can (and should) be a pleasurable and passionate pursuit, for both scientists and non-scientists. Dawkins would like to think that enjoying science could be like enjoying music even if one does not play an instrument ? a view I find very encouraging.<br />This book is a spirited attempt to rescue us from the misplaced view that science is at odds with aesthetics. Dawkins makes no apologies for clearly distinguishing how scientists can view the world differently from poets, without losing an appreciation of beauty.  QUOTE The mystic is content to bask in the wonder and revel in a mystery that we were not meant to understand. The scientist feels the same wonder but is restless, not content; recognizes the mystery as profound, then adds, ?But we?re working on it.? UNQUOTE<br />Even if poets and scientists may view mystery and beauty differently, Dawkins holds that ?the spirit of wonder which led Blake to Christian mysticism, Keats to Arcadian myth and Yeats to Fenians and fairies is the very same that moves great scientists..? I can sympathize with Dawkins? lament with the distortions of science we can find in poetry, because he demonstrates the scientists? appreciation of artistic endeavor in an ability to reconstruct poetic passages completely in scientific terms. I was moved by one stanza he quotes which I reproduce here:<br />To see a world in a grain of sand,<BR>And a heaven in a wild flower,<BR>Hold infinity in the palm of your hand.<BR>And eternity in an hour<br />When he wrote the above four lines, William Blake could not have been expected in 1803 to anticipate new concepts of space and time and discoveries of quantum physics. And cosmology in twentieth century science. Yet, we can today marvel at his stanza and cherish these lines while understanding them completely in terms of modern science, which stikes me as a remarkable product of human artistic and scientific achievement.<br />The title of the book refers to Keats' lament of Sir Issac Newton's use of prisms to decompose the components of white light, supposedly because this experiment destroyed a sense of beauty and wonder related to observing the rainbow. It is clearly emblematic of how such poetic lament is at odds with the sheer wonder that scientific discoveries such as Neton's can evoke. It was this discovery, together with those of later scientists, which have led us to understand in the twentieth century how we are part of a much larger universe than humans previously imagined, which is expanding, and which is made up of the same common material everywhere, and has revealed to us even greater mysteries that we could not have previously imagined.<br />For adults who may have acquired a distaste of science from unfortunate early school experiences, this book may restore a sense of wonder and beauty to this endeavor. Or, by offering some wonderful imagery to convey some simple but important scientific idea, this book may help adults and children dialogue about science in an accessible way. For example, the author compares the time scale of biological evolution to the span between the fingertips of left and right hands when both arms are outstretched in a gesture of open embrace. The epoch when simple celled organisms and bacteria were the only form of life forms the large bulk of this span, with dinosaurs only appearing at the point in the upper part of the right palm, and human beings appear only at the very fingertips! <br />This book reminds us of that unfortunate chasm in our culture between poetic or artistic expression and scientific endeavor. I confess that as an advocate of greater scientific literacy among the general public, I would be happy to see more of this genre.	2003-09-05
US	28657792	R3NEX17C7P5AY2	0679779086	690058783	American Scripture: Making the Declaration of Independence	Books	4	36	37	N	N	An informed iconoclastic view of American Independence	MIT historian Pauline Maier has written a richly documented and highly informative analysis of a document which is widely regarded as the symbolic expression of the birth of American nationhood -- the Declaration of Independence. This book shatters well established myths regarding the nature and authorship of this key document in the history of the United States, and cautions readers against the misrepresentations of this history in contemporary texts and monuments.<br />A major thrust of the book is its analysis and comparison of  \\"declarations of independence\\" adopted by various localities and states among the American colonies prior to the adoption of the July 4 1776 document by the Continental Congress in Philadelphia. The author documents the popular origins of the American Revolution and its roots in older English traditions of bringing royal regimes to an end. Noting that at least ninety, possibly more, such local \\"declarations\\" were adopted by various communities in colonial America, during 1775 and 1776, with several examples reproduced in an appendix, the author points to similarities in drafting with English documents which had sought to explain and justify why Englishmen brought the rule by various English kings to an end on five occasions between 1327 and 1485, and then twice again in the seventeenth century. Paradoxically, it was this English tradition of declarations which inspired the drafting of similar declarations among the American colonies as they grew disenchanted with not only British Parliament, but also King George III, and even the British people. This common lineage of documentary traditiion from Britain fostering a sense of unity and bolster the common resolve for independence among the North American colonies which previously had little connection with each other than through the mother country across the Atlantic. <br />But the author also underscores the \\"peculiar American twist\\" in these documents adopted by local communities, especially as she seeks to answer \\"why ordinary people in towns and counties were involved at all in deciding the fate of the British Empire.\\" She notes that English history lacked a tradition of efforts to win broad-based support for change of regime, which the Continental Congress felt was needed. Nowhere in America did there exist an institution like Parliament in Britain which could claim to speak for the \\"whole community.\\"  Individual states and communities differed in how they came to adopt instructions on Independence which eventually guided voting in the Continental Congress. \\"On the high end of the scale were the votes of Massachusetts town meetings and of James City County, Virginia, where a majority of resident freeholders signed the instructions on Independence; on the other were places like Talbot County, Maryland, whose instructions came from a group that openly described itself as 'part of the freemen of the said County.' Some instructions were the work of elected committees that felt free to speak for its constituents.\\"<br />The other major thrust of the book is on Jeffersons exact role in drafting and contributing to the final document adopted in Philadelphia. The author meticulously examines these points based on her interpretation of available evidence. Later in the book, she demonstrates how  Jefferson's words were misrepresented in the Jefferson Memorial built in Washington DC by additions and omissions which fail to correctly ascribe authorship to others such as Richard Henry Lee or which avoid the references to overthrowing government. Why the author emphasizes these points becomes clear when she asserts that the Declaration of Independence was \\"an avowal of revolution\\"  whose vitality \\"rests upon the readiness of the people and their leaders to discuss its implications and to make the crooked ways straight, not in the mummified paper curiosities lying in state at the Archives.\\" This epilogue brings us back full circle to the introduction of the book in which the author is implicitly contemptuous of what she documents as a disproportionately costly and tedious attempt to preserve the original document.<br />Pauline Maier suggests that her account of the Declaration of Independence puts her somewhat at odds with other historians and takes issues with what she considers to be a number of well established myths and views. She affirms vigorous \\"dissent from any suggestion that Jefferson was alone responsible\\" for this document. Furthermore, by seeking to document the impact of \\"the grubby world of eighteenth century American politics\\" in shaping this document, she also distances her position from other academics  whom she views as being \\"more comfortable in the transatlantic world of ideas\\" and who place much more weight in the treatises of European writers as an influence on the Declaration of Independence. The author asserts that \\"as a statement of political philosophy, the Declaration was therefore purposely unexceptional in 1776\\" -- based on her careful documentation of the rich philosophical traditions and literary lineage which were its antecedents. She unabashedly reminds readers that she once nominated Thomas Jefferson the \\"most overrated person in American history\\", adding the following: \\"It does strike me as odd, however, that historians' obsession with Jefferson continues unabated at a time when studying the history of  'great white men' has become unfashionable in the profession.\\"<br />The book presents other interesting historical insights into this period, outside of its two main thrusts described above. The British technique of \\"divide and conquer\\" which would become well tried and tested elsewhere in the growing Empire, including India, was also applied in the American colonies, as evident in a purportedly conciliatory proposal made by British Minister Lord North in response to one of the spirited appeals written by Thomas Jefferson to the British King in 1774. Under Lord North's proposal, the British Parliament would desist from taxing any American colony which raised sufficient permanent funds for its own defense and support of civil government. According to Pauline Maier, American colonists \\"saw the proposal as an attempt to divide the colonies without conceding that Parliament had no right to tax Americans.\\" <br />On the whole, whatever your political persuasion and interpretation of the Declaration of Independence, you are likely to find this a lively book with well argued and documented historical analysis. The appendices and bibliography are also an important resource for the serious reader of American history.	2003-09-02
US	28657792	R3DDXTOXD1T541	0670030309	338299274	Secrets: A Memoir of Vietnam and the Pentagon Papers	Books	4	14	16	N	N	The U.S. Vietnam war: an insider's difficult confessions	This timely book has appeared when debate continues to rage on America's role in the post-Cold War world and particularly since the events September 11, 2003. It is timely notwithstanding its chronological sequence which ends about thirty years ago, bracketed by two key events: the famous Gulf of Tonkin incident in 1964, coinciding with author Daniel Ellsberg's first days on the job as a top Pentagon official with the highest civil service grade, and the May 1973 dismissal of the case brought against Ellsberg by the Nixon administration for his leaking of the \\"Pentagon Papers\\" to various media.<br />You can read this book on two different levels.  It is first and foremost an insider's view of the policy and bureaucratic interactions through which successive U.S. administrations and agencies (including the various parts of the military and intelligence community) justified and pursued a growing U.S. military engagement in Vietnam, despite, as Ellsberg forcefully documents, deep convictions among many senior members of this community that this was a doomed enterprise from the outset. Second, the book is about the personal transformation of the author whose was continually wracked by his intellectual and moral struggles between his convictions of the futility of the ends and means of U.S. policy in Vietnam and his involvement with this policy for over a decade as a top Pentagon official and later as a consultant with RAND Corporation. Although much of the material has appeared elsewhere and also covered in other books such as David Halberstam's  \\"The Best and the Brightest\\", Ellsberg provides some fresh material and insights in this latest work.<br />Ellsberg continually juxtaposes evidence of intelligence available to him others against a series of official pronouncements, beginning with those of President Johnson and Defense Secretary McNamara, claiming unprovoked enemy aggression and threats to U.S. interests. Within twenty hours of starting his new job at the Pentagon, and referring to the Gulf of Tonkin incident, Ellsberg writes that he already knows that \\"each one of the assurances [given by the President and Defense Secretary] was false.\\"  However, Ellsberg, a former officer in the Marines holding a Harvard economics doctorate who is hardly dovish, is not alone in his incredulity about various claims, particularly between civilians (With whom General Maxwell Taylor tended to side, he says) and the Joint Chiefs of Staff, on the scale of risks the U.S. being drawn into a war with China. \\"The JCS was inviting the administration to play with nuclear fire. And whatever their reasons and reservations, the top civilian officials were not refusing to play.\\"<br />Ellsberg documents his own bureaucratic reflexes, as he responds to his Pentagon boss, John McNaughton, who reports directly to McNamara. \\"An order from McNamara to McNaughton for fast action was like an order from God; it wasn't an occasion for John to express reservations to show hesitation. He passed it on to me with the same expectation. I didn't disappoint him.\\"<br />But Ellsberg continually struggles to explain why he remained in his Pentagon job despite his growing doubts, beginning with the U.S. bombing of North Vietnam. \\"This book represents my continuing effort - far from complete - to understand my country's war on Vietnam, and my own part in it, and why it took so long to end both of these.\\" He shares in this book the reactions of his future wife, an active opponent of the U.S. role in Vietnam, during their evolving relationship. Of his male friends she encountered during a tour in Vietnam, Ellsberg reports, \\"She observed to me later that all of them were either divorced or separated from their wives by more than distance. Nobody at the table had an ongoing marriage. It was her sense that they were desperate men, enamored of danger and the war, risk takers who didn't feel they had a lot to lose.\\" <br />While his doubts grow, it is not until he begins to read the secret \\"Pentagon Papers\\" in the spring of 1969 that Ellsberg writes of changing his perspective on the Vietnam War drastically. \\"It was to be the last month that my writings expressed a concern with how we might have won in Vietnam.\\" The papers which Ellsberg eventually leaked were a 7,000 page document officially titled \\"History of U.S. Decision-making in Vietnam, 1945-68.\\" Ellsberg is enraged after he seeke the counsel of a Harvard law professor to whom he describes his plan to leak these documents. When the lawyer refuses to hear any more about his \\"planned crime\\", Ellsberg shoots back: \\"I've been talking to you about seven thousand pages of documentation of crimes: war crimes, crimes against the peace, mass murder. Twenty years of crime under four presidents. And every one of those presidents had a Harvard professor at his side, telling him how to do it and how to get away with it.\\"<br />Ellsberg reminds how, when the Nixon administratation obtains a temporary court injunction against New York Times, the first of several newspapers to which he leaks the documents, a threshold in crossed in U.S. legal history; \\"For the first time since the Revolution, the presses of an American  newspaper were stopped from printing a scheduled story by federal court order.\\" Symbolically, on May 11, 1973 the day when the case by the Nixon administration against publication of the Pentagon papers is dismissed, Ellsberg writes of someone holding up headlines from the same day proclaiming the indictment of former Attorney General John Mitchell, the man who had indicted Ellsberg.<br />Several books have recently appeared on the U.S. war in Vietnam. Few share both the personal perspective and the insider's views of this book which underscore how damaging secrecy can be for democratic institutions. Ellsberg conmveys tha passions of his convictions against U.S. involvement even while he acknowledges the distance he feels with the tactics and aims of many of the student protesters he meets, through his future wife and others.<br />Just as for Ellsberg himself, this book is important for anyone who continues to seek to unravel the enigma of the U.S. political process which was to engulf the country into one of its most serious period of domestic crisis, culminating in Watergate. While Ellsberg does not broach events beyond 1973, the publication of this book nearly thirty years later will re-open our eyes to a series of events and lessons which tend today to be relegated to the collective amnesia.	2003-09-01
US	28657792	RC6UOY7T9C5R7	0810919575	441405278	Woody Allen At Work: The Photographs of Brian Hamill	Books	3	2	2	N	N	A film career described in photos and an essay	This book is mainly a collection of photographer Brian Hamill's shots of Woody Allen at work. While many of the photos are simply photos taken directly from Woody Allen's films, twenty two of which are featured in this book - including Manhattan, Annie Hall, Stardust Memories, and Bullets Over Broadway - there are a large number which show how Woody Allen does his work. One scene from Manhattan, in which Woody Allen is conversing with his co-star Mariel Hemmingway in a café, shows a classic close-up of Hemmingway shot over Woody's right shoulder, with light aimed, controlled and diffused so as to give her eyes an attractive glow. Another photo of a scene from Stardust Memories shows how the special effects crew uses hoses and sprinklers placed outside the frame on either side in a \\"movie-within-the-movie\\" sequence in which Woody co-stars with Charlotte Rampling as they kiss in the rain.<br />Both photographer Ham ill and Woody Allen write mutually admiring and complementary pieces at the beginning of the book of each other. As does Charles Champlin when he reviews Woody Allen's career in an essay which precedes over 150 pages of photographs. This is thus not a critical book of the work of the film maker.<br />If you enjoy or have enjoyed Woody Allen's films, this book is a nice coffee table book which will remind you of some of your favorite scenes and how they were made.	2003-09-01
US	28657792	R1YVDXDJKHYD59	047121213X	902520472	Economics of Strategy	Books	4	14	17	N	N	Clearing the fog in tackling corporate strategy	For those who have become disenchanted with the faddish rhetoric of corporate strategy, and seek more rigorous analytical grounding than offered in most \\"inspirational\\" business books, this text by three faculty members of Northwestern University and of Purdue University is refreshing. <br />The text recapitulates the key tools of micreconomic theory in a masterful introductory chapter which covers cost theory and game theory. The rest of the book is structured around the four classes of issues which the authors see as the essence of strategic analysis: firm boundaries, market and competitive analysis, position and dynamics, and internal organization.<br />The text is full of excellent examples and mini case studies from a wide range of industries.<br />I have not found it easy to find many other texts which achieve this balance of analytical rigor and practical business-oriented empirical focus.	2003-08-28
US	28657792	R3NAG4CP9DSBZW	0071355898	33258360	The New York Times Century of Business	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Leafing through snippets of 20th century business history	Economic history or the history of business is often too abstract for the non-specialist reader to take any interest in the subject. This is quite different from the cases of military or art history, for example.<br />Which is why this book is helpful. No one can seriously consider the history of the twentieth century without looking at the vast transformation of businesses and the marketplace which have taken place in this period. <br />The 300-odd pages contain photographs and articles from the New York Times which sweep through major epsiodes of twentieth century business including trust busting, the Great Depression, the electronics revolution, and mega-mergers at the close of the century. The articles are accompanied by commentary from the married couple who are the authors, both of whom have been business writers for the New York Times.<br />Whether you are a student doing research for a high school paper, or a policy maker who wants a quick reminder of the events and forces which have shaped business in this century, you will find this book highly readable and informative. In the introductory words of former Federal Reserve chairman Paul Volcker, &quot;Rereading history may never subtitute fully for personal experience in shaping our behavior. But there is something to the admonition of one of the 20th century's leading philosphers, George Santayana, about the importance of understanding the past. And this book surely brings our economic history alive.&quot;	2003-08-28
US	28657792	R26U73HJ2LHDHP	2843233356	147215310	America Latina	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Visually appealing, accompanied by superb text	I would recommend this book for its wonderful assortment of drawings, photos, and paintings alone, beginning with the attractive portrait of Frida Kahlo on its cover jacket. Once you read the accompanying text, including a wonderful selection of quotes from Latin American and other writers and commentators, you will be struck by the remarkably compact coverage of a region which is extremely varied.<br />I believe this has been achieved by a judicious selection of nine key themes, each within a self contained chapter which balances text and graphics in a soothing manner. The first chapter, for example, on the European \\"discovery\\" of Latin America, combines pictures of reprinted maps, with a wonderful account of the forces in Renaissance Europe which ultimately propelled explorers to this little known part of the world. The second chapter on conquest includes title pages from indigenous as well as European manuscripts which provide a balance of different perspectives on these historically controversial encounters between civilizations. I will mention just one more chapter - on the arts of this region. Here, we are treated to wonderful pictorials and text on tango, Bossa Nova, and Cuban music.<br />Obviously, the presentation by the French journalist who wrote this book is eclectic. But, given the complexity of the region, it is effective.<br />This would not only make a great \\"coffee table\\" book or gift, but is also a very pleasant read for a serious reader of Latin American history and society.	2003-08-28
US	28657792	R22ZCK4L0DEVA6	0471076376	434769587	Practical Steps for Aligning Information Technology with Business Strategies: How to Achieve a Competitive Advantage	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Bridging business strategy and IT planning: a clear guide	It was about the time this book was written in 1994 that I was facing a difficult time trying to articulate the relationship between business strategy and use of information technology, and the complex set of issues of alignment between the two. I was involved in the complex restructuring of a central bank in an African country and my need to explain these issues to central bankers made my job even more complex.<br />This book opened my eyes. Even as business thinking and technology have evolved tremendously since this book was published, I still find this text one of the clearest and most concise guides on this subject. The author's approach is highly structured and supported by excellent graphics and charts and he eschews the use of jargon in favor of more straightforwad language.<br />The strength of the book is its achievement of the difficult balance between business and technolgy issues. Even the concept of strategy is concisely explained with an excellent review of different &quot;schools of strategy.&quot; The chapters on technology will definitely seem outdated to many, and the lack of discussion of the Internet and multimedia will be especially striking to a reader today. But this is less important if your interest is to see how to present the issue of alignment between business strategy and technology. The penultimate chapter on management philosophy and style quotes from Machiavelli and Sun Tzu and reminds us that all this technology is really about achieving straegic advanatge and business gain. It is too easy to miss the forest (strategic vision and goals) when the trees (technology tools) become the focus.<br />I have many other books on similar subjects, but find myself returning to this one whenever I seek inspiration on how to present the issue of effective alignment. It is full of practical straight talk in an area which has unfortunately fallen prey to hype and obfuscation. An illustrative quote from this book: &quot;Clarity is hampered by colloquial definitions of the words. Therefore, we must take some time to uncover  what strategic alignment between I/T and the business really means.&quot;	2003-08-28
US	28657792	RD10RAPTITX7S	0029197856	252058201	Executive Economics: Ten Tools for Business Decision Makers	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Economics for busy business managers	As an instructor in a graduate course in managerial economics for non-economists, I have struggled to find texts which would appeal to students and professionals who are sceptical of the value of economics as a discipline which can help in solving business problems.<br />Professor Maital's book is an exception. It speaks directly to executives by focussing on the kinds of strategic problems they face, and introducing fundamental economic concepts by illustration, not by the formalistic exposition of standard texts.<br />I find his book as an excellent way to illustrate key concepts such as opportunity cost, marginal cost, economic versus accounting costs, and other concepts that unfortunately too often mystify students - or turn them off.<br />Even if many of the examples now seem dated, I would heartily recommend this book to both instructors and students who seek to bridge the world of business problem-solving with the tools of theoretical microeconomics.<br />The book is organized in ten highly readable chapters. My favorite quote from the book: &quot;If you face no tradeoffs, your company is poorly managed.&quot;	2003-08-28
US	28657792	R1H3Q2FAKGT6RL	0810904039	352462290	Chocolate: The Nature of Indulgence	Books	4	6	6	N	N	History and economics of chocoloate without any recipes!	Whether you are a chocolate lover like myself or not, you will enjoy this veritable opus on the history and business of this wonderful gift from the New World.<br />The narrative is bracketed by these two first and last sentences of the book: &quot;The lush, tropical rainforest is home to the cacao tree....It is possible that chocolate may be a critical ingredient in the fight to save the world's rainforests.&quot; Written as an accompaniment to a Chicago musuem exhibition on chocolate, this book is full of pictures and photos which complete a well-written text on the historical origins of this major global product, the chocolate business, and even the future of chocolate.<br />This is a wonderful book for young and adult readers. It will grace any living room bookshelf. Don't be disappointed by its lack of recipes.	2003-08-28
US	28657792	R1JT1SHERCJSEZ	006054564X	957972911	My Invented Country: A Nostalgic Journey Through Chile	Books	4	55	56	N	N	Personal dynamics of national identity by a Chilean writer	Readers should not be misled by the title, referring to a journey through Chile. Certainly, this book is about Chile. And the first ten pages lay out the physical landscape, quoting the country's most famous poet Pablo Neruda, and referring the reader again to him for a soulful appreciation of the landscape:&quot;To see my country with the heart, one must read Pablo Neruda...who in his verses immortalized the imposing landscapes, the aromas and dawns, the tenacious rain and dignified poverty, the stoicism and solitude..&quot;<br />But this book is not a travelogue. Nor is it a deep historical or sociological analysis of Chile. Rather, it is an intensely personal and auto biographical view of the country through the eyes of one of its best known novelists, and partly from the vantage point of San Francisco, her adopted hometown in an adopted land.<br />The theme of displacement and identity recurs throughout the book, and very powerfully in the symoblism of the two September 11 dates which deeply marked the writer's life - the one in 1973 when her uncle Salvador Allende was overthrown and died in a violent CIA-backed military coup, and the other memorable date in 2001. Allende writes: &quot;By a blood-chilling coincidence - histroic karma - the commandeered airplanes truck their U.S. targets on a Tuesday, Spetember 11, exactly the same day of the week and month - and at almost the same time in the morning - of the 1973 military coup in Chile, a terrorist act orchestrated by the CIA against a democracy.&quot;<br />If you have read House of the Spirits, Eva Luna, or other novels by Isabel Allende, this book will bring out many of these fictitious characters and place names in the context of a very real history and social setting.<br />Throughout the book, Allende seeks to present her view of what is the essence of Chile, often by contrasting it to other countries and tradtions. &quot;African blood was never incorporated into Chilean stock which would have given us rhythm and beauty; neither was there, as there was in Argentina, significant Italian immigration, which would have made us extroverted, vain, and happy; there weren't enough Asians, as there were in Peru, to compensate for our solemnity, and spice up our cuisine.&quot;<br />Even without being a work of fiction, this book depicts Chilean history and society with literary license, and personal anecdotes. This might be frustrating for a reader looking for clear-cut and consistent factual presentation. At times, she even appears self-contradictory in presenting different anecdotes on the same subject. Writing of Chilean food habits, she says: &quot;Most of the executives I know suffer from diabetes because they hold their business meetings at breakfast, lunch, and dinner.&quot; Later, she writes: &quot;I never heard the word cholesterol mentioned. My parents, who are over eighty, consume ninety eggs, a quart of cream, a pound of butter, and four pounds of cheese per week. They're healthy and lively as little kids.&quot;<br />She similarly deals with subjects such as divorce, the role of women, and religion with anecdotes, although she occasionally sprinkles the discussion with oddly precise statistics: &quot;Sociologists say that forty per cent of Chileans suffer from depression&quot; or &quot;71 percent of the population has been demanding [divorce] for a long time.&quot;<br />It is not easy to know whether to take some of her statements at face value, as for example in her discussion of religion. On one hand, she considers Chile &quot;the most Catholic country in the world - more Catholic than Ireland, and certainly much more so than the Vatican.&quot; But she explains that this religious belief &quot;has a lot more to do with fetishism and superstition than with mystic restiveness or theological enlightenment.&quot; Her discussion of beliefs in Chile regarding paranormal phenomena may give us some insight into the elements of mysticism and magical realism we find in hernovels.<br />Readers who seek her views on Chilean politics may be surprised to find only one paragraph devoted to General Pinochet, of whom she is obviously and, unsurprisngly, contemptuous: &quot;Admired by some, despised by others, feared by all, he was possibly the man in our history who has held the greatest power in his hands for the longest period of time.&quot;<br />I found one of the most engaging parts of this book the description of the author's literary career and the forces which shaped it. It is only at the very end of the book that the unknowing reader will find out that this book helped the author deal with a tremendous personal tragedy - the loss of her daughter.<br />If you enjoy Allende's novels or even Latin American fiction, more generally, this book provides some interesting insights from a deeply engaged writer.	2003-08-27
US	28657792	R2AV9UW87U6IBY	0060926317	318377142	Mutant Message Down Under	Books	3	16	17	N	N	Beware of the message of this book!	When I picked this book in a bookstore in Alice Springs, I was not aware that the author was going to be unclear about whether this was fact or fiction. The cover describes the book as \\"A Woman's Journey into Dreamtime Australia.\\" I was ready for another account of a journey in the Australian outback and insights into various aboriginal groups. Being halfway through \\"Tracks\\" - a factual account of an Australian woman's journey across the outback (which I have also reviewed)- I was hoping this book purporting to present a somewhat similar experience by an American woman would be equally enjoyable. <br />In her introduction, the author allows the reader to judge whether the book is fact or fiction, suggesting it can be enjoyed both ways. Certainly, if you are willing to suspend disbelief, and read it as pure fiction, it is a good read, even though it falls short of the quality of similar books by Carlos Castenda relating to native Americans. <br />But, on finishing the book, I was left with an uncomfortable sense that the author's ambivalence over fact and fiction might actually be manipulative. What bothered me even more was that she might also be manipulating the very people she purports to promote in the book. <br />You should be aware that this book is very controversial, and even among many Australian aborigines who feel that they have been exploited by it.I would strongly suggest you first consult some articles about how it has been received by Australians - aboriginal and non-aboriginal.	2003-08-14
US	28657792	R1M1B1NF199XVX	8817125539	284650031	An Italian in America	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Why one year in Georgetown doesn't explain America	I was intrigued to find this book by an Italian writer (which I picked up in a bookstore in Rome) whose book title seems to subtly harken back to one of his compatriots who preceded him to America - in 1492 to be exact! <br />I am sure this book will be viewed differently by American and non-American readers. The author may be conscious of this, inviting, perhaps even provoking, the reader early on to make his or her own judgments on his final conclusions about the United States (which gave way to the author's inital \\"stupor of the early months\\" of his stay)<br />Certainly, the English translation is witty, funny, and entertaining, and I can only imagine that the original in Italian is the same. He likens Italians' encounters with bureaucracy in the United States to a \\"matador faced with a milk cow\\" because \\"having trained on the Italian version...it is a pushover.\\" He marvels at consumer choice in America, describing the experience of Europeans at Potomac Mills, the enormous shopping mall outside Washington DC with numerous factory outlets, as follows: \\"After one hour, Europeans are enjoying themselves like spoiled children. After two hours, they are scooping things up like refugees from the former Soviet bloc.\\"<br />Much of the book reads like a manual of how to deal with the practicalities of living in the United States - like getting a social security card, driver's license, telephone, and the like. And he is mostly admiring in his descriptions of these experiences, which include getting free advice late at night from a toll-free service number for his computer.<br />But this admiring tone belies some questioning about American institutions and attitudes to which he only alludes, but clearly avoids discussing in any depth. Certainly, his references to other commentators on the United States, stretching back to the early days of the republic, and his frequent sprinkling of statistics in the text, make for interesting reading.  Yet, absent a certain depth of analysis, many of his conclusions sound more like familiar European stereotypes of the United States than the product of thoughtful comparison: \\"..this is a nation of optimistic self-improvers, convinced that happiness is above all a question of mind over matter\\" or \\"But in Italy, the family is still central and, at least in comparision with America, still works fairly well.\\"<br />For those familiar with or residing in Washington DC, the book evokes familiar place names, including shopping malls, schools,and streets. But in describing his year spent in the Washington D.C. area, the Italian columnist who is the author -- and is also well known in Italy for a best-seller on Britain --unflinchingly extrapolates his observations to the rest of the United States. He builds his final conclusions on the United States around five 'C's - control, comfort, competition, community, and choregraphy. Some of his conclusions will strike American readers as bizarre - as, for instance, that Americans have a much smaller comfort zone in terms of body space between strangers than do Europeans (I have always heard and also most observed the exact opposite).<br />I found myself constantly asking whether the audience he has in mind is non-American, and especially European. I cannot tell if the author really intended this book to be read beyond a largely Italian, or even European audience. In the end, this book may probably be more telling of Italians, or perhaps of Europeans to some extent, than it is of the United States as a whole.	2003-08-14
US	28657792	R23VBJ77QITH0D	0836210441	783018830	The Revolutionary Cholesterol Breakthrough: How to Eat Everything You Want and Have Your Heart Thank You for It	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A thoughtful well documented book	I stumbled on this book while waiting for an appointment with a chiropractor. I was not particularly concerned about heart disease. What struck me initially was the careful research and quality of the writing of the author who is a medical writer, not a doctor . In addition, the opening of the book is very personal - as the author relates how he went from surviving his second coronrary bypass at the age of forty one to completely beating heart disease without abadoning steaks or other things he likes to eat. <br />He carefully puts together an analysis of how a good cholesterol-reducing diet can be followed and marshals the evidence - or lack thereof - as he discusses the claims and counter-claims made regarding various approaches and remedies. The section on the role of niacin in reducing cholesterol in especially good, although there now seems to be much more research on this topic. The references are very extensive and cover a lot of the medical literature on these topics.<br />I enjoyed the presentation enough to borrow the book from my chiropractor and finish it. Hopefully, this is a recommendation for you to consider it, if these topics interest you.	2003-08-14
US	28657792	R36C7V5FX22AEX	1585732931	101373668	Insight Guide Italy (Insight Guides)	Books	4	19	19	N	N	A great complement to a more practical Italy  guidebook	It would be a pity for anyone to travel to Italy - or any other country - without having a handy informative resource on the rich history and culture of the country.<br />If your travelling style involves much more than racing through monuments and ticking off the standard \\"must see\\" list, because you seek to more deeply understand the present by looking at the past, this might be the perfect handy companion to complement a more practical travel guidebook.<br />More than one-quarter of the 400-plus pages are devoted to the history of Italy, with well written sections in Ancient Rome, the Renaissance, and the emergence of the modern Italian state in the nineteenth and twentieth centuries. There are also superb featured sections on topics such as the Mafia, Italian fashion, and Italian cinema. These discussions are very compact. While not substituting for in-depth analysis on these topics, they constitute an excellent survey of different phases of contemporary and ancient history of Italy. <br />These are the main strengths of this book. It is a wonderful resource to consult while travelling after you have visited a monument, or as you reflect on the rich series of events and forces which have shaped the arts, political life, and institutions of this country. <br />Travellers who mainly want a helpful guide on planning travel to Italy and practical information such as museum visiting hours, best driving routes, where to find the best gelattos, etc. will find other travel guides more complete on these topics. You may think about using this book as a complement to one of these more practical guides.	2003-08-14
US	28657792	R1CEGV5R4P8HU7	0803893728	614646360	Daytrips Italy (3rd Edition)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A guide to escaping summer heat of Italian tourist cities	I used this book mainly to escape the record heat wave which hit Italy and the rest of Europe the summer I took my family there. If you are prepared to go only slightly off the beaten track of tourists, while not entirely missing the attractions of Venice, Florence, and Rome, this book will help lead you to some interesting alternatives in smaller Italian towns.<br />Rather than spend uncomfortable afternoons sweating through narrow streets, long lines in front of monuments in Florence and Rome, I was able to spend a good part of our time exploring the countryside in the comfort of an air-conditioned rental car.<BR>And this did not distract from some historical and cultural experiences which the bigger and more popular large Italian cities (which I used as a base) offer in terms of museums and monuments.<br />The book does not cover all the smaller interesting towns, of course. I would suggest adding the town of Vinci in Tuscany, birthplace of Leonardo da Vinci, which not only affords a spectacular museum on the artistic and scientific works of this man, but has several wonderful restaurants.<br />Use this book as a complement to more traditional guidebooks focussing on the bigger cities and major attractions -- and you might find your Italy trip even more rewarding.	2003-08-14
US	28657792	R2GCANVEYY05DC	1564024695	920066847	Dateline: Troy	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Are modern humans and institutions like Ancient Greece?	I have read, both in my childhood and adulthood, many different versions of the Trojan War. The version in this book is well written for both adult and younger audiences.<br />What is most interesting in this book, however, is its attempt in every page to relate something about behaviors and practices in Ancient Greece to those we find in modern times. The author very ably does this by placing selected newspaper articles - mostly from the 1970s, 1980s, and 1990s - across each page of the the text as the story of the Trojan War unfolds.<br />Thus, the book presents subtle comparisons between King Priam's consultation of the Priest of Apollo and a newspaper report of how former President Reagan and his wife used astrology; the competition among Greek godesses to find the fairest among them with a study in the 1990s by some Pennsylvania scientists on how infants respond differently to images of pretty and plain looking women; the spreading of disinformation during the Trojan War to the modern use of psychological warfare; and other comparisons between Ancient Greece and the modern world.<br />This book thus provides both adult and young readers a foundation to dialogue on how human civlization and institutions have both evolved - and also remained constant in some respects - throughout the ages. This is a very interesting and commendable effort by the author.	2003-08-14
US	28657792	R1CNX90YR994WQ	0847820289	58957677	Evita: An Intimate Portrait of Eva Peron	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Can pictures of the controversial Argentinian Madonna lie?	As a photographic biography of an individual who died about a decade before bographies were featured on mass television, this book is magnificent. The Argentinian publishers painstakingly compiled nearly 200 pages of many elusive photos of this controversial Argentinian icon - all in black and white, and of surprisingly impeccable quality.  One of the auhtors is an academic who provides much of the narrative, and fills an important gap in the literature on Eva Peron. Their treatment shows a clear sympathetic bias which should be recognized by any unwitting reader who may be unaware of the deeply split views of Eva Peron which still previal in Argentina and of the political movement that she and her husband created. <br />You may, like myself, have enjoyed the brilliant Lloyd and Weber musical about Evita's musical life one or more times. If so, you will find these photos will provide some complementary historical insight to the dramatic performance and parallels the performance - although they two are unrealted, as far as I know. Like the musical, this book captures photos from Eva's childhood in a remote provincial pueblo in the pampas through her meteoric rise to stardom in Buenos Aires and ultimately to Argentina's First Lady. Perhaps most remarkable are the photos of her final months where, despite her cancer-ridden state and growing frailty, she continues public appearances and political campaigns.<br />If you are interested in this book, I would recommend you avoid the expense of a new copy by looking for one of the many high-quality second-hand copies available. I found my copy by accident ...for [money amount]!	2003-08-01
US	28657792	R114PHTGSY4TW8	0875847595	372260335	Net Gain: Expanding Markets through Virtual Communities	Books	4	4	5	N	N	A forerunner on how to create profitable on-line communities	Notwithstanding the many new books on on-line communities, I still keep this book on my bookshelf as a useful reminder of the conceptual framework around which many new businesses - failed or otherwise - were subseqently developed.  <br />It has been nearly six years since I attended a seminar organized by the consulting company McKinsey at which the two authors (both McKinsey consultants)presented their book and what seemed, at that time, to be its somewhat radical proposition about profitably developing self-organizing on-line communities around the passionate interests of their memberships.<br />As I become more familiar with Amazon and how it is organizing the community through which you are reading this and other reviews, I am reminded about the fundamental concepts that Hagel and Armstrong laid out in their book regarding the economics of virtual communities. Amazon attracts member-generated content which is a key part of its business model which uses the passionate interests of its own customer base to increase its business value. Many doubted the vailidity of this proposition when this book came out, but the evidence does appear to increasingly support it.<br />Arguably, many might now say that this book is dated, on-line businesses having mushroomed and failed since this book appeared, yielding new lessons that this book could not have foreseen. Many of its claims now seem overhyped. <br />While this and other criticims may all be well and true, I suspect that this book will come to be regarded in future business histories of the on-line business as one of the seminal pieces of strategic business thinking in the late 1990s. I shall keep it for posterity, if not profitability. In any case, there must now be enough second-hand copies for you not to have to make the investment at the full original cost!	2003-08-01
US	28657792	R3KN98INFXC6H4	068483443X	595026604	Power Pricing: How Managing Price Transforms the Bottom Line	Books	4	18	18	N	N	Gaining a strategic understanding of pricing in daily life	Why does there exist such a variety of pricing schemes for different products and why do we see different prices for the same product, depending on who buys it when, where, and how? This is a branch of microeconomics called price discrimination. Price discrimination questions are among the most directly observable ones for students, particulary those who are unlikley to study more economics or business. I therefore focus on these questions in teaching managerial economics in an organizational management graduate program. <br />Dolan's and Simon's book is therefore of some interest to me. These two management consultants have written an extremely practical and non-academic book which explores the actual practice of business pricing with greater sophistication than found in most standard applied micreconomics texts or many business marketing texts. The main markets for this book, I suspect, are students, having graduated but still disatisifed with the overly theoretical approach in their microeconomics classes, and business managers, especially in medium to large companies, for whom pricing is a very dynamic and strategic issue.<br />I doubt this book is used as a main teaching text, nor would I recommend it. Its basic concepts are hardly novel and are found in any microeconomics or marketing text.The presentation of the basic concept of price elasticity is somewhat long and tedious (it is usually done in less than a page in a standard microeconomics text). However, the application of this concept -and illustrations of how businesses can use it practically - makes for a very rich discussion. <br />What is useful in their book is the variety of examples of actual business settings where practical pricing decisions have to be made which can apply several different concepts. How globalization affects pricing decisions is given considerable attention in this book. I did not find the final section on implementation of priing strategy in organizations as insightful as the middle chapter which is more analytical.<br />For teaching and learning purposes, this could be a useful back-up resource, if used judiciously with a more standard text.	2003-08-01
US	28657792	RGW0FMEVD1JM9	0844289744	596017956	South-east Asia (Traveler's Literary Companions)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Literary tourism - viewing countries through their authors	Unlike the standard travel guide chock full of the helpful practical information on hotels and sights, this book provides the traveller something very different, and also very satisfying. <br />A compendium of short stories and poems by authors of ten Southeast Asian countries (most of them translated into English from the original Asian language), this book also has  also very userful biographical notes on the authors, additional bibliography for each country, and useful historical and social information.<br />For the traveller who is interested in the literary life of these countries, this book is a marvelous collection from novelists, poets, and travel writers who have seen these countries through different eyes than those of most hurried tourists. One short poem from Indonesia brought back my own memories of hitchiking days as a teenager spent in a fishing village on the island of Samosir in Lake Toba in Sumatra. The author, Sitor Situmorang, speaks of a young man who returns to his native village after many years in Europe: \\"The lost child is now back...not a single person he knows anymore..how many harvests have there been...whatever has happened?\\"<br />This series has other similar books on Japan, Africa, Latin America, and other regions. I look forward to seeing this genre flourish as travellers' interests in different lands continue to multiply and go beyond just the cursory view of the sights.	2003-08-01
US	28657792	R28070JBY0QLM7	1865084085	369264293	The Changing Face of Australia: A Century of Immigration 1901-2000	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A visual history of social transformation in Australia	Kate Walsh, curator of the Migration Musuem in Adelaide, South Australia, has assembled a remarkable photgraphic record of Australian migration history over the last hundred years. Over five hundred photographs are accompanied by very informative narratives which convey the rich and varied history of migration to this land where four in ten persons today are either born overseas or from foreign born parents. <br />The highlights of an often chequered history of Australian immigration are vividly brought home by some very personal stories drawn from family albums, community organizations,and library archives. A group of Italian settlers from the Aeolian islands pose for the first annual picnic for Melbourne frutierrs in 1906. In another photo, six young Australians of German ancestry are photographed in a detention camp in Germany where they were held during the First World War together with British prsioners. There is the snapshot of one Australian solider from Darwin's Chinese commnity who was shot several times in New Guinea by fellow Australian soldiers during World War Two who mistook him for a Japanese. A photo from the 1960s shows the generational differences between adult members of a Spanish commnity in Whyalla singing and dancing to flamenco music and the younger Spanish girls who were kept in pants and never owned a flamenco dress. Photos of Malays and of Greeks show the diverse specialist skills which were attracted into Australia's pearling industry. The chronicle of the 1970s and 1980s reveal the changing composition of immigrants, with Asian and African faces increasingly showing up in the photos.<br />This book is a remarkable and informative piece of historical research judiciously combined with a rich portfolio of images of a nation which has become vastly transformed in a hundred years.	2003-08-01
US	28657792	RS8QZSMPALOW9	0874834791	107365828	Wisdom Tales from Around the World (World Storytelling)	Books	4	18	19	N	N	Tales for all seasons, cultures, and vocations	This is one of those rare books which can appeal to audiences of a wide range of ages, faiths,and backgrounds - whether you are a child, teacher, preacher, parent, or connaisseur of world cultures.<br />The fifty folktales and parables in this collection have universal appeal because each tends to speak to some aspect of human experience which is common across cultures. They range from a short three paragraph Chinese tale of a philospher waking up from a dream, wondering whether he is a man dreaming he is a butterfly, or a butterfly dreaming he is a man, to the well known Indian tale of three blind men and the elephant.<br />Without being either overtly religious or secular, this collection reflects Zen, Christian, Jewish, Hindu, Taoist, and Sufi faiths in its short stories, as well as traditions from Ancient Greece and Africa. <br />If you wish to open the early mind of a future young reader to the treasure troves of world literature, this is a good place to start.	2003-07-31
US	28657792	R2PX8P5KZ17MO1	0743200276	272331046	The Best Alternative Medicine	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Alternative medicine: a guide  to sorting evidence and myth	If you consider yourself open-minded about medical therapies, but are bewildered by, if not downright sceptical of, popular claims regarding alternative medicine, this book may be one of the best guides to help you sort actual scientific evidence from hearsay.<br />Dr. Kenneth Pelletier, a clinical professor of medicine at the Stanford School of Medicine, provides a lucid, superbly documented, and well organized volume on complementary and alternative medicine (CAM) broadly defined as \\"those medical systems, interventions, applications, theories, or claims that are currently not part of the dominant (conventional) biomedical system.\\"<br />This book should appeal both to those with a policy interest in this subject as well as a practical interest in understanding what the state of scientific evidence is across a wide range of alternative medical practices. Even while looking at these issues primarily from the perspective of policy and practice in the United States, the book sources its medical evidence globally and compares policy and practice from different parts of the world.<br />The book is organized in a straightforward two-part structure. Part One catalgoues avaiable scientific evidence relevant to major categories and sub-categories  of alternative medical practices such as mind-body control (inclduing biofeedback, mediatation, arometherapy, etc.,); diet, nutrition and lifestyle changes (inclduing herbal medicine); alternative systems such as acupucnture, ayurveda, homeopathy, Chinese medicine, and others; and manual healing,incdluing acupressure, massage therapy, chiropractic, and others.<br />Part Two organizes and evaluates evidence relating to CAM therapies by dozens of specific major meduical conditions such as acne, alcoholism, arthrities, depression, diabetes, epilespy, ulcers, and vertigo, just to name a few.<br />The politics of conventional and alternative medicine ensure  that no treatment of this subject is easily free of, or seen to be free of, advocacy. This book is no exception, with clear bias for openly considering alternative medicine based on available evidence. It recognizes the polemical atmosphere in which the debate is currently framed and favors a middle ground approach of \\"integrative medicine.\\" There is an interesting discussion situating the debate on these issues in the United States relative to other, mainly European, countries.<br />While it can hardly be the last word on this difficult subject, this book appears to be one of the most thoughtful and transparent comparisons of conventional and alternative medicine in the United States.dvocacy. This book is no exception, with clear bias for openly considering alternative medicine based on available evidence. It recognizes the polemical atmosphere in which the debate is currently framed and favors a middle ground approach of \\"integrative medicine.\\" There is an interesting discussion situating the debate on these issues in the United States relative to other, mainly European, countries.<br />While it can hardly be the last word on this difficult subject, this book appears to be one of the most thoughtful and transparent comparisons of conventional and alternative medicine in the United States.	2003-07-31
US	28657792	R13VN882NIOFSN	0156005786	537769951	In Light of India	Books	3	12	12	N	N	In search of India -- through the lens of a Mexican poet	This book is an odd medley of genres and has a distinct \\"entre deux mondes\\" quality. It briefly starts as a travelogue, as Octavio Paz, describes his sea journey during the 1950s from his diplomatic posting at the Mexican Embassy in Paris to his first assignment in India where he would later return, in the 1960s, as Mexican ambassador. In many ways, I enjoyed these thirty odd first pages, replete with images from the crossing of the Suez Canal to the docks of Bombay and over rail tracks to Delhi, much more than the rest of the book. <br />The bulk of the book is an impressionistic, enigmatic, and often confusing essay on Indian society, religion, castes, languages,and cosmology. Many of these difficult topics are treated too superficially for this book to be a serious historical or sociological analysis of India. While not the central thrust of this book, comparisons between Indian and Mexican history become inevitable as, for example, when Paz considers different outcomes from what he sees as a common experience in Mexico and India of an indigenous polytheistic culture colliding with an invading monotheistic faith. Or when he analyzes the impact of what he sees as two secular institutions supposedly brought to India and Mexico by colonizing forces - the civil service and army. It is rare for two important, but spatially and historically distant civilizations, to be analyzed next to each other in such a personal way. The reader will not escape a sense of forced comparisons by the author of very different historical and social settings.<br />But the author does not claim rigor in his analysis of India, acknowledging that \\"this is not a systematic study, but a more or less ordered gathering of the reflections, impressions, and objections that India provoked in me.\\" For the reader who can view these impressions of India from a Mexican diplomat and Nobel laureate in literature on a less obvious level, this self-conscious disavowal of profound insight into India makes the book intriguing. The author may shed less light on India than he does on his native Mexico,or Latin America, more generally. Perhaps, this is his real intention. <br />The final pages return to the biographical style at the beginning of the book, giving glimpses into how Octavio Paz historically situates demands for political reforms which were emerging in Mexico in the late 1960s, from his vantage point in India. Ultimately, these political convulsions in Mexico, notably the student riots, culminate in his resignation as a representative of the Mexican Government in India. \\"I decided I could no longer represent a government that was operating in a manner so clearly opposite to my way of thinking.\\" <br />Readers of his classic on Mexican society \\"The Labyrinth of Solitude\\" will sense echoes in \\"Light of India\\" which Octavio Paz concludes with a short and tender poetic swan song to his diplomatic assignment in India, invoking the Hindu deities Shiva and Parvati.	2003-07-31
US	28657792	R3LAKUP3UK0FLO	0195132653	856692384	Law 101: Everything You Need to Know About the American Legal System	Books	4	32	36	N	N	Understand the law, but not how to write a will	Although I do not regret my decision, after deferring entry to law school for three years, to finally choose another vocation, I maintain a strong interest in legal philosophy and history, and comparative and international law. For me, Jay Feinman's book was an especially delightful find on the law section of a general bookstore. Few jurists, other than those like Alan Dershowitz and Richard Posner, seem to communicate clearly and effectively in non-specialist books which can satisfy curiosity outside of immediate needs such as writing wills or understanding consumer rights. <br />The claim of this book to provide \\"everything\\" you need to know about American law is undoubtedly exagerrated. This being said, Feinman provides a clear, thoughtful, and insightful coverage of the essentials of all that is covered in the first-year curriculum of a first-year U.S. law school program without the pain of wading through extensive case material - contracts, criminal law, torts, property, constitutional law, and legal procedure.<br />The strength of this book lies in its emphasis on the open nature of many legal issues -- where there are no straightforward answers. I especially enjoyed, in the section on constitutional law, the superb discussion of the scope of the justiciability doctrine which eshews intrusion of courts into the authority of other branches of government. But what exactly constitues a nonjusticiable political question which the courts should not decide?<br />An extract from the author's section on civil procedure underscores his invitation to the reader to avoid thinking about the law as cut and dried subject matter and process: \\"The lesson from all of this is that clear, rigid legal rules are often not what they appear to be. They either produce injustice as they are applied in varying fact situations, or they demand interpretations and exceptions - yet interpretations and exceptions cause complexity and uncertainty.  Broad, flexible legal rules, on the other hand,  give the courts great discretion, and discretion produces conflicting decisions and uncertain rules, which is another form of complexity and injustice.\\" <br />The last one and a half pages are a tour de force in clarity and simplicity for those seeking to appreciate legal reasoning. It identifies a limited set of questions which can be applied to any layman's encounter with legal issues in newspapers or eleswhere, and give him some sense of what lawyers and judges have to do.   <br />Readers show be aware that this book, while a good introduction to the frame of mind of a U.S. jurist, is not intended to be a comprehensive introduction to the U.S. legal system.	2003-07-22
US	28657792	R1Q51HI9SCD57G	0151605807	285489328	Mission to Civilize: The French Way	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Nos Ancetres Les Gaulois (Our Ancestors, the Gauls)	The title for this review is what schoolchildren in Francophone Africa -- and elsewhere in France's far-flung emmpire -- would recite until recently, the product of what the author of this book has titled France's self-imposed mission civilisatrice or \\"mission to civilize.\\"  <br />Rosenblum, whose experience as a journalist covers most countries and territories currently or previously administered by France, approaches this book as both critic and admirer.After cataloguing a list of French foreign policy stances which have drawn widespread outcries (including the sinking of the Rainbow Warrior, flagship of the Greenpeace movement), he writes: \\"But these characteristics of France, even the least admirable ones, reinforce amazing recuperative powers that allow the nation to spring back in full force from the deepest of defeats. France rests on the same old stones and slow-cooking sauces that have been survived war, occupation, and economic depression.\\"<br />However, the relationship of France to its former colonies is not as simple as it might seem, as I have learned in over ten years of working in Francophone Africa. Mort Ronsenblum's book is one of the few in English and for the general reader, which attempts to describe this complex relationship. The actual extent of this empire in terms of people formerly under French administration does not come close to the former British empire. At the same time, the number of sovereign countries which today form part of \\"la Francophonie\\" is staggering, as is evident in this book, even if none of them comes close to the size of a Nigeria or India. Ronseblum notes that it is not the numbers, but rather the sense of outreach, that France seeks, quoting former President Mitterand, \\"We are the carriers of a culture that can have the ambition of being universal.\\"<br />Rosenblum does a good job of trying to cover nearly all of France, its overseas departments and territories, and former colonies, without pretending to bring the depthand rigor of a historian. The first two parts of the book cover French history and institutions in order to provide a foundation for third part which covers la Francophonie on all continents - the Americas and Caribbean, Europe, Africa and the Middle East, and Asia and the Pacific. His breezy style and chapters peppered with numerous quotes and anecdotes make for entertaining reading.  <br />It would be interesting to speculate how this book would be rewritten in 2003. Developments since 1988 when the book came out,in France and its former colonies, have produced a new critique of France's  relationships with its colonies. Sacred cows of the French establishment - including traditionally secretive abuse of public funds and influence peddling by senior politicians - have been dragged into court, all of which has also put a spotlight on the French relationship to Africa. - after other books in French such as \\"Francafrique\\" or by Africans \\"L'Afrique Sans La France\\" by a former Prime Minister of the Central African Republic. One wonders if Rosenblum would as tempted today,, as he was in 1988, to close his book with these last two sentences: \\"It is likely there will always be an England. It is certain there will always be a France.\\"	2003-07-22
US	28657792	RNOPM5UKZANIC	0609807501	969569334	The Okinawa Program : How the World's Longest-Lived People Achieve Everlasting Health--And How You Can Too	Books	3	7	11	N	N	The secrets of longevity unveiled?	I have often read journalistic accounts of centenarians from different parts of the world - Central Asia, Andes, and other places. And I was quite surprised to read, when I stumbled upon this book, that most claims from different parts of the world about longevity can be debunked for different reasons.<br />This book however takes a different view of longevity in Okinawa, a group of islands in Southern Japan, where it cites twenty five years of studies and evidence pointing to a systematic pattern of diet and lifestyle habits which underpin a high rate of centenarians in the population. While I expect most readers to be looking for concrete health and diet guidance, which this books offers in abundance, I also found this systematic approach to studying longevity quite intriguing in and of itself.<br />Much of the books focuses on the specificities of Okinawan diet and lifestyle. However,the most interesting feature is how the book puts this discussion in a broader frmaework of what constitutes healthy diet and lifestyle. The book is replete with general information, including diet and exercise tables, charts and statistics of vitamins, food groups, disease incidence, step fitness based on post-exercise hear rates,etc. all of which make it an interesting and fairly comprehensive general guide to healthy living. Some of the food charts are the most extensive I have seen in a general non-specialist health guide of this type.<br />The authors are a team of two brothers - an internist and a medical anthropologist - and a Japanese cardiologist, all three of whom have a special focus on geriatrics. The writing is very clear and direct, and avoids throwing out jargon without careful explanation. It is therefore a very accessible book for the general reader, even given the impressive breadth of topics and depth (which it achieves in almost 500 pages).<br />I did not feel compelled to choose all aspects of Okinawan lifestyle - nor did I feel that this was a heavyhanded message in this book. The message is that there is much useful experience and insight to be gained from looking at Okinawans whose diet and lifestyle can be adapated to other parts of the world.<br />However, much as I enjoyed most of the book, I often wondered about how really more rigorous it is than other books on the same general subject. There were several parts where the link to concrete data did not seem any more robust than claims made in many other health guides which tend to only vaguely cite medical research and evidence. Still, this book compares quite favorably to the other popular books on healthy living.	2003-07-22
US	28657792	R2XY2Y91DMAIB7	044661064X	188084707	The First Counsel	Books	2	6	6	N	N	A stick figure plot on 1600 Pensylvannia	If you are willing to jettison incredulity over unconvincing characters, and jump straight into plot, this thriller may not disappoint. The plot is certainly thick with suspense,and  Washington DC connaisseurs in particular might be thrilled to recognize  many local references. Meandering through the passages of the White House and Old Executive Office, vividly described in the first voice of the main character, the reader almost gets a virtual tour of rooms and offices rarely accessible to the general public : \\"Lucky for both of us, we have first-floor office - whcih means we also have the shortest walk to the West Wing...\\" \\"The second floor of the West Wing houses some of the best hig-powered offices, including the First Lady's personal office and the one imnmediately to my right....\\" \\"Instead, we stop at the closed door of the main conference room....where Kennedy's staff weighed in on the Cuban Missile crisis...\\"  <br />(Little wonder that some reviews of the novel report a vicarious sense of proximity to the White House.  After putting down the novel, and fresh with the images of its unmistakable setting, I was persuaded, after fourteen years of working within a one to two block radius of the White House, to consider joining one of the public tours offered daily.)<br />The novel centers on the relationship of a young White House staffer, working in the office of the White House Counsel (the President's legal adviser), and the First Daughter. The latter's  quixotic, if also mentally disturbed persona, makes for the most memorable character in the novel. The plot ably combines a succesion of suspense-raising developments, each adding a new layer to a growing mystery  -- a late night exchange of funds in the proverbial brown envelope witnessed by the two main characters; the mysterious death of another White House staffer; the curious relationship of the President's daughter to an old family friend who is also one of the White House aides; and an ex-convict's logged visit to the White House. Given the scope of the plot and its political implications in real world, you might be surprised to discover that characters you would otherwise expect to figure prominently - like the President and First Lady - appear only episodically.  <br />Other than requiring almost 500 pages of perserverance, this thriller is mentally undemanding. In retrospect, I thought of better ways I could have spent my July 4th weekend. The engaging mystery did not dispel my sense of a plot animated by cardboard characters who seemed  out of place, not only in the real world, but also in the microcosm of this thriller.	2003-07-19
US	28657792	RF5B6TR09KB1M	074931785X	879886531	Short Reign of Pippin 4	Books	4	0	0	N	N	French politics, Texas millionaires, and teenage novelists	For those familiar with John Steinbeck's other works, this book, his only satire, may come as a surprise. I myself have always been wondered why this may be Steinbeck's least known work. <br />This farcical tale describes French politicians allowing the return of the monarchy to power, after political parties are unable to break a deadlock and agree on a new government. The story may not seem that far removed from the reality.  In the 1950s, in which the novel is set,  extraordinary government instability in France led to a rapid succession of several governments, which ultimately brought General De Gaulle to the Presidency, as France wrestled with its Algeria crisis. <br />With his characteristic grace and wit, Steinbeck creates a marvelous cast of characters. They range from Pippin Heristal, the astronomy-crazed Parisian who relucantly yields to Parlimentary pressure to assume the throne, as a descendant of the ancient French ruler Charlemagne, even while he prefers to pursue his late night sightings in the skies; the disciplined Frenchwoman who is his wife and who confides in Sister Hyacinthe, a childhood friend turned nun; Clotilde, their wild teenage daughter who falls in love with the son of a visiting Texas poultry industry magnate while in her quest of stardom; and others who resemble characters we may have encountered on the Left Bank or in some sunny French provincial town. While the caricatures are unmistakable, Steinbeck, a former Parisian in the vein of Ernest Hemmingway, Gertrude Stein, and others of the same era, has a knack for making these characters entirely believable.<br />There is a particularly hilarious description of the raucous debate among multiple political parties in the French National Assembly, which leads to Pippin's appointment. Steinbeck hurls brief satirical passages into the saga, as when the cold war politics of the era lead both the United States and Soviet Union to rush to support this new regime and departure from la Republique. <br />Ultimately, Pippin's frustrations over being a figurehead propels him to discover popular discontent through his forays into the ranks of French workers and peasants, disguising himself as a reporter for the French communist party daily, among other persona. But, Pippin later immerses himself in his long-waited sighting of a rare meteor shower, unaware of the political fallout from his attempts at reforms which lead to his downfall. Those allergic to the excesses of the French revolution however need not fear for Pippin and his family a similar ending which befell his predecessors from an earlier regime (namely, Marie Antoinette and her ill-fated husband).<br />Over the last twenty years, I have offered this book as a gift to more than twelve friends, and re-read it at least fifteen times. There are simply too many charming one-liners for me not to periodically spend another afternoon with this slim novel.	2003-07-19
US	28657792	R2NFFB9S9XNUAE	0385722206	749687762	Balzac and the Little Chinese Seamstress: A Novel	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Coming of age in post-Cultural Revolution rural China	Hauling buckets of human excrement up a hillside would hardly qualify as part of an idyllic coming of age for a teenage boy. But caught in this unappealing fate, the two teenage Chinese boys who are the main characters in this novel, undergo a rapid growing up and discover new worlds during their banishment to a rural community in Maoist China. Sons of \\"bourgeois\\" parents, they are naturally horrified when they first discover the daily routine to which their \\"re-education\\" consigns them. Through their talent for storytelling, they come to entertain and gain favor of the the otherwise autocratic village headman whose whims determine the extent of their toil and drudgery of their daily existence. Soon, they entertain peasants in a nearby commnity. <br />These storytelling sessions with local peasants leads to an encounter a Chinese teenage girl,\\"the little seamtress\\" whose father's frequent absences from home allows ample time for the boys to get to know her better. But the coming of age tale in this novel does not simply revolve around this relationship. It is also their perilous encounter with a trunkful of banned foreign novels - including those of Balzac - which open the minds of these two boys to a radically different universe in which passion and grace became a counterpoint to their dreary rural environs. While living with the risk of being caught with this subversive literature, which they stumble upon in the home of another banished youth, the boys learn to negotiate their access to these books, under the watchful and deeply suspicious eyes of the youth's mother who comes to visit her son in the village.<br />This is a charming, warm and highly readable novel, which adds to a growing collection from newly emerging Chinese novelists on life during and after the Cultural Revolution in Maoist China.	2003-07-19
US	28657792	R21DL8FL0IO1FA	0811212890	756781803	Deep River	Books	4	7	7	N	N	A global odysey originating in Japan, culminates in India	During a tour in India, five very different Japanese characters meet near the holy Ganges river: a man who grieves the death of a wife he had neglected; a woman bitten by her own cynicism and growing sense of inner void; a Japanese man who disaffection for the Christian life he adopted leads him to seek spiritual renewal elsewhere; and a former Japanese solider still haunted by the memories of atrocities in war-time Japanese-occupied Burma. Shusaku Endo masterfully builds up these full bodied characters through deft brushstrokes of key passages in their lives. Individual chapters show the inner turmoil and personal changes which lead these characters to their encounter (or re-encounter) in India, including a young Japanese who becomes disatisfied with the Christian life to which he had converted in his early youth  and later followed in France; a widower in quest of the soul of her husband; and others. <br />Looking at a few quotes extracted from a dialogue between two Japanese characters in the novel will give you a sense of the encounters and re-encounters between individuals and the cross-cultural encounters, all of which are a strong feature of the play. In this dialogue which takes place in Paris, a Japanese woman talks to Otsu, one of the main characters who became a Christian early in his life in Japan.<br />The woman declares: \\"...It makes my teeth stand on edge just to think of you as a Japanese believing in this European Christianity nonsense.\\" Otsu replies: \\"I've been here three years. For three years I have lived here and I have tired of the way people think. The ways of thinking that they've kneaded with their own hands and fashioend to meet the workings of their hearts..they're ponderous to an Asian like me. I can't blend in with them. And so everyday is hell for me...\\"<br />The reader of this novel who is not Japanese will gain some interesting insights into how Japanese might react to these different cultural settings, as characters move from Japan to France to the United States, and finally meet in India. Endo  delivers a very personal sense of cross-cultural encounters, recognizable to those of us who have gone through similar journeys in different parts of the world. <br />Since I have only read Japanese novels in translation into either English or French, I cannot fairly judge Endo's style against other Japanese writers who are also well known to foreign readers, like Mishima and Kawabata. But while Endo may not share the grace and delicacy of these writers, his novels, including this one, are very human, and bring us very close to the inner lives of his characters. <br />If you want to better understand how Japanese come to view the rest of the world, or more generally how different cultures can collide, Endo's novels and his characters are a good place to start, or to continue, your journey.	2003-07-19
US	28657792	R2JCHWKDZ34PAO	0375501487	197783362	The Glass Palace: A Novel	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Romance from Mandalay to Malaya by way of India	Fans of Asian fiction will enjoy this novel. Set in colonial Burma, India, and Malaya, this unusual piece of historical fiction has for all its main characters Asians who are natives of these countries, unlike the expatriate colonials who seem to populate most novels of this genre. The saga is epic, spanning three countries and generations. <br />The novel opens in Mandalay, in the closing days of the last of a series of nineteenth century wars between resource-rich Burma, seat of one of the great Southeast Asian empires, and colonial Britain. Forced to capitulate to the new colonial power, the Burmese royal family is subsequently exiled by the victorious British to a remote seaside outpost in colonial India. <br />Against this backdrop unfolds the boyhood of the main character, Rajkumar.  As an abandoned child left off a boat from Bangladesh, he subsists by assisting an aging Burmese woman in her small business as a street vendor right across the imperial palace in Mandalay. Rajkumar comes to witness the dramatic sacking of the Burmese imperial palace, vividly described in the novel. This leads to his brief encounter with one of the palace maidens for whom he develops a lasting boyhood infatuation. This infatuation persists even into adulthood, long after the maiden has joined the Burmese royal family in their exile in India, turning into an seemingly improbable re-encounter and finally marriage. This major part of the plot parallels Rajkumar's rags-to-riches rise from his boyhood abandonment into the streets of Mandalay, to prospering in his own timber business. <br />Despite his uncanny knack to rise above his meagre early fortunes, Rajkumar ultimately evolves into a tragic figure. This shift in fortunes also follows a change in setting, as Rajkumar and his family saga later extend into colonial Malaya where his business empire expands into rubber plantations. <br />Weaving into the novel the product of his considerable research, the author treats those with a special interest in Southeast Asian history to the description of the exile of the Burmese royal family in India,  details of the logging business in Burma, and the social life of Malayan rubber planatations --all interesting subjects in their own right. In my mind, these insights into Southeast Asian history, together with characterizations which are still unusual in this genre, offset the prose which sometimes feels workmanlike, and a plot which tends to lose momentum when it turns to the later generations of the family.	2003-07-19
US	28657792	R1ESLX1VIFB2BO	9973973704	882068178	Les Cendres De Carthage	Books	3	2	2	N	N	From ancient Carthage to CIA - a transcontinental thriller	Flying from Tunisia back to the United States probably put me in a good frame of mind to appreciate this novel. An archaeological dig in the ancient city of Carthage, close to the capital of present day Tunisia, leads to a thriller involving politicians and intelligence services from Tunisia, the United States, and France. With increased U.S. attention to the Middle East these days, this novel might interest many Americans attracted to this genre. Unfortunately, to my knowledge, it has only been published in French, which might limit its accessibilty.	2003-07-19
US	28657792	R2PYYOWSCWVPPA	0330491547	212919386	Other People's Words	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Unshackling the antiopodean literary press	This wonderful true story of a  \\"dinky-di\\" Australian woman's struggle to form an independent publsihing company is more than just an interesting biography. It is emblematic of many aspects of Australias' general history and its particular publishing world in which Australian readers and writers break away from the \\"mother land's grip\\" to assert a more confident national self-identity. In describing the vision of her independent publishing business which she finally establishes, the author captures this more general sense of self-identity and declaration of literary independence, asking \\"Why should Australian readers be denied a new novel from an East Timorese writer, say, because an English editor doesn't think readers in Britain would be interested?\\" <br />The writing style is engaging, personal, and moving. By describing the details of her childhood literary diet, we come to understand the depth of far flung influence of Penguin Books of Britain, and British publishing generally, into the far reaches of the Southern hempishere. A memorable extract depicting the years before the great changes of the 1970s: \\"The majority of publishing houses in Australia were branch offices of British publishers in every sense of the term. When the chairman of a major London-based publishing house declared at a British boosellers' dinner that all he needed in Australia was a 'chimp with a crowbar to open the crates' he was only half joking.\\"<br />This book is a a wonderful way to understand the maturation of Australian society, culture and politics and offers a lesson in how the history of publishing in a country can tell a much broader history. For example, without being a major part of this book, Australia's emergence as a multi-cultural society becomes apparent when the author describes, for example, the Greek and Turkish language editions developed for a new series of children books (\\"Practical Puffins\\") in the 1970s.  <br />Ultimately, the independent publishing house - whichthe author established with another women - is sold. But the author considers herself lucky to have caught the new wave of Australian thinking and writing. \\"Australia was where we happened to be, what we wanted to be part of as it took on its new shape. And, after all, we were of the generation that thought we could do anything, and for a little while, in a small way, we might have.\\"	2003-07-19
US	28657792	R3S415NHUMNJ8S	1402200455	907864510	Sixty Million Frenchmen Can't Be Wrong: Why We Love France but Not the French	Books	4	29	33	N	N	Understanding Gallic Gall and other misunderstood Frenchisms	For over twenty years, travelling frequently between France and the United States, I have gathered and compared perspectives from both sides of the Atlantic on French (mis)perceptions of the United States and vice versa. This book adds to a collection which ranges from John Steinbeck's wonderful satire of Fourth Republic politics \\"The Short Reign of Pipin IV\\" to Harvard professor Stanley Hoffman's \\"In Search of France\\" and including French sociologist Michel Crozier's interesting works on US society. What is distinct about this attempt by a perceptive Canadian couple to explain France to a North American audience is its remarkably compact coverage of a wide range of topics - from the nature of the French state to its elitist \\"grandes ecoles\\" - with well documetned historical and other references which the general reader will find neither inacessible nor superficial. One reservation I have is a tendency to bend over backwards to be culturally neutral, avoiding criticism of any aspect of France, but instead showing why North American tendencies to crticize might be misplaced. But then, this is the prupose of the book, it seems. On the whole, the North American reading this with an open mind will also better understand many aspects of U.S. and Canadian society.	2003-07-18
US	28657792	R17TPW0C0V541T	0394574621	931454339	A Secret Country: The Hidden Australia	Books	4	7	8	N	N	No Crocodile Dundee here!	No serious reader of contemporary Australian history or politics should miss this book. It is a departure from cliched (and sometimes misleading) cuddly, wolly, and warm images of a sun-drenched land of cute marsupials, insouciant inhabitants, and otherwise seemingly featureless social history.  <br />The author brings unique viewpoints and journalistic sources (for example, CIA insider Victor Marchetti, whom he quotes several times) to several major subjects of Australia's history in the 1970s and 1980s.  Even the parts of this book which resemble conspiracy theory more than solidly researched history form food for thought. A clear example is the chapter entitled \\"The Coup\\" which discusses a still poorly understood subject --  the fall of the Whitlam government. This episode, in which the Governor-General (the representative of the British Queen) dismissed the elected Prime Minister of Australia in 1975, is perhaps one of the most monumental and disturbing events of Australian political history, and still stirs debate equivalent to those in the United States surrounding the assassination of JFK. Even if Pilger's account of the involvement of the CIA in this \\"coup d'etat\\" may seem far fetched, it does put a rare focus on the extent and nature of the US-Australian security and intelligence relationship, aspects of which are still unknown to Australians and Americans alike. <br />Other provocative subjects which Pilger covers include the plight of Aborigines and the role and influence of multinationals in Australia. Pilger clearly regards his native country with affection. He closes with a vision of Australia united with New Zealand and other Pacific nations which he suggests would enable \\"...Australians to break free from our imperial past;and for us, like everyone, breaking free is the only future.\\" <br />Foreign readers - but possibly many Australian readers too - will undoubtedly find this book an eye opener.	2003-07-18
US	28657792	RMRGNCB5S8GHO	0805020527	162424664	Chasing the Monsoon: A Modern Pilgrimage Through India	Books	3	7	7	N	N	Depicting the subcontinent is no breeze!	Few books on India can easily hope to undertake and accomplish the monumental task of depicting this complex society. This book is no exception. By taking the lens of the monsoon -- and  the beliefs and practices which surround it in India - this book  has adopted a wonderful device to depict a wide swathe of this country. Entertaining and thoughtful, this is certainly one of the more informative travelogues on India.	2003-07-18
US	28657792	R25KVR9ZC5KAZ3	0679762876	762993057	Tracks: A Woman's Solo Trek Across 1700 Miles of Australian Outback	Books	3	51	56	N	N	Soul on sand and scrubland - a camel trek across the outback	This book is a true story by a determined Australian woman who crossed one of the most inhospitable stretches of land in the world - a wide swathe of treelees dry scrubland which is most of Australia's center and its northern half. <br />I especially enjoyed this Australian classic, having just visited the remarkable and idyosyncractic town of Alice Springs where the early part of the book is set. This is where the author learns how to tame, care for, live with, and depend on camels for survival, as she prepares for the dramatic trek which lies ahead. <br />The rage against the male photographer who keeps showing up - the compromising aspect of her compact with her sponsors at National Geographic - is at times shocking, leaving one to wonder whether the author has more sympathy for her camels than fellow human beings. But this impression is deceptive. The mostly male characters who populate her book hardly seem caricatured, while the camels do emerge as a woman's best friend in the outback. \\"One does not have to delve too deeply to discover why some of the world's angriest feminists breathed crisp blue Australian air during their formative years, before packing their kangaroo-skin bags and scurrying to London or  New York or any place where the antipodean machismo would fade gently from their battle-scarred consciousness like some grisly nightmare at dawn. Anyone who has worked in a men-only bar in Alice Springs will know what I mean.\\"<br />The rage, courage, vulnerability, determination, and other emotions and qualities which this trek depicts, almost seem like a metaphor for the complex place of the outback in the Australian experience. \\"It was delicious new country but it was tiring. The sand dragged at my feet and the repetition of the dunes lulled me into drowsiness when the first excitement wore off. The stillness of the waves of sand seemed to stifle and suffocate me.\\"<br /> Even without seeing the photos from National Geographic, the reader is left with graphic inmages of a remarkable landscape and the unusual qualities it takes for a transplanted urbanite to survive it. <br />Beyond character and landscape descriptions, the books offers some inspirational passages. Consider this extract from the final paragraph: \\"As I look back on the trip now, try to remember how I felt at that particular time, or during that particular incident, try to relive those memories that have been buried so deep, and distorted so ruthlessly, there is one clear fact that emerges from the quagmire. The trip was easy. It was no more dangerous than crossing the street, or driving to the beach, or eating peanuts. The two important things that I did learn were that you are as powerful and strong as you allow yourself to be, and that the most difficult part of any endeavor is taking the first step, making the first decision....\\"<br />Another bookshelf recommendation for those who are serious about Australiana or about unusual human endeavors.	2003-07-18
