US	28679490	R8WKEF3HR8BZQ	0064471071	671298565	The Voyage of the Dawn Treader (The Chronicles of Narnia, Book 5)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	One great voyage	The Voyage of the \\"Dawn Treader\\" speaks of the boy King Caspian's sea adventures to the end of the world.  With him are his crew, a talking mouse named Reepicheep, Lucy and Edmund Pevensie, and their cousin Eustace Scrubb.  Lucy, Edmund, and Eustace are all from \\"our\\" world, but they land in the magical world of Narnia through a ship painting at Eustace's house.  Lucy and Edmund had both been in Narnia before; since time flows differently in Narnia, they had actually been rulers of Narnia in years past.  Now, they are back to join Caspian in his quest to find out what happened to the seven lords of Narnia that had been banished long ago.  The people of the \\"Dawn Treader\\" sail many waters and discover many captivating islands. <br /> <br />There is never a dull moment because every landing is an adventure for the crew.  There is an island of invisible creatures, an island of slaves, an island of darkness, and much more.  My favorite scene is when on one island, Lucy is sent to do a task, and she witnesses beautiful but tragic things that could only be seen once.  Aslan, the mystical lion that watches over Narnia, makes appearances, and he is especially close with dear little Lucy.  Also, I loved watching Eustace emerge as a mature character in the end because in the beginning, he was absolutely dreadful.  Caspian's nobleness is striking, but character-wise he does not change a lot.  The ending is, as one reader put it, allegorical, with light everywhere, and I found the scene to be very beautiful and breathtaking.  C.S. Lewis' descriptions are always vivid, but the last scenes paint absolutely brilliant pictures. <br /> <br />Besides from the wonderful The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe, The Voyage of the \\"Dawn Treader\\" is one of my favorites in the lovely Narnia series because of its neverending adventure.  If you have never picked up a Narnia book, I suggest that you start now!	2005-08-02
US	28679490	RSB4AEKVHFXDF	0441008720	614011267	Lord Brocktree: A Novel of Redwall	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Lord Brocktree, one of my favorites	LORD BROCKTREE is the 13th book in the Redwall series.  These books are not in any particular order, so if you are new to the series, feel free to start with one of my favorites: this one! LORD BROCKTREE (I'm capitalizing it so not to confuse with the character) witnesses the fall of Salamandastron, the mountain by the sea, to the wildcat Ungatt Trunn and his Blue Hordes.  The Badger Lord Stonepaw awaits the return of his son, Brocktree, but he dies before his son reaches the mountain.  Not to worry; Brocktree leaves his home of Brockhall to travel to Salamandastron because of a compelling dream/vision he has of the mountain.  He meets up with a garrulous hare (I'm repeating myself because all hares are talkative) named Dotti who calls herself a fatal beauty.  These two travel together and gather more companions.  Someone tells them of King Bucko's fighting contest, which is great because the King is a huge hare with a sizeable hare army...just what Brocktree needs to fight Trunn and his vermin! <br /> <br />As always, Brian Jacques makes his stories come alive with adventure and lovable characters.  Brocktree rarely strays from his path; Dotti is vain but deliciously carefree.  The old hare that is sent as a runner from Salamandastron, Fleetscut, is my favorite character.  Despite his old age, his appetite is still ravenous, and his hilarious comments with his \\"archrival,\\" a squirrel named Jukka the Sling are worth reading!  I do not know about the other readers, but the Salamandastron hares were always my favorite characters, and here there are plenty of heroic hares to love! <br /> <br />Unlike some books, evil actually dominates a good portion in LORD BROCKTREE.  Things seem dismal for a long time; I thought all the Salamandastron hares would die and all would be lost.  Of course, Brocktree and his friends save the day, but in order to read about their journeys, you definitely have to pick up LORD BROCKTREE, one of the best books in the Redwall series, now!	2005-07-19
US	28679490	R1BVOIBAIQQ09W	0441007732	777062090	Legend of Luke (Redwall)	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Good story, if only the Legend was the focus	The Legend of Luke is the 12th book of Redwall, a great series with characters that are animals of all sorts.  This book (I could be mistaken!) is somewhat of a prequel because it goes back to the days when the town of Redwall is still relatively new.  Martin the Warrior mouse and his friends leave to learn about his legendary father, Luke, who left Martin to avenge his loved ones' deaths.  They travel by land and by sea and face adversaries (the vermin in Redwall are creatures like stoats and weasels).  An old halfship greets them, where a talkative ancient hare and his mice friends inhabit.  They turn out to be friends of Luke, and in the middle of the book is the main focus of this narrative: the legend of Luke. <br /> <br />The writing is very good, as expected.  Brian Jacques is great at keeping readers mesmerized with descriptions and a vivid plot.  He writes of Gonff's mischief, Martin's and Luke's calm leadership, and a bloodthirsty otter, to name a few.  There is the hare, and although hares in Redwall traditionally talk a lot, I have always thought Redwall hares are so funny with their \\"wot wot\\" in their speech!  Luke's tale is riveting as he fiercely battles the Sea Rogues that wreaked death on his beloved tribe.  He has the same Warrior spirit that inhabits his own son, and it glows in the final battle aboard the pirate ship. <br /> <br />Some cons: The title IS called The Legend of Luke, but only 1/3 of the book is dedicated to Luke's story.  The other 2/3s has Martin and his friends roaming the countryside, which I found a little dull, and way too many poems and songs.  I know the poems/songs are a trademark of Redwall books, but they grew hackneyed after the third one, especially since many take up almost a full page! <br /> <br />If The Legend of Luke told Luke's story and what Martin did with this newfound knowledge, I would give this book 5 stars.  It really is a good read; however, a good portion dealt with...well, essentially nothing.  Maybe I will pretend I never read the story of Martin and his friends dallying in the countryside and instead remember Luke's heroic tale of avenging the ones he loved.	2005-07-13
US	28679490	RB4R7WXNVQDKG	074321790X	459949880	The Lost Girls: A Novel	Books	4	3	5	N	N	a unique book	The Lost Girls features Wendy Darling Braverman, the same Wendy from the beloved Peter Pan story.  All the Darling women have to be whisked away to the Neverland in their teenage years, and they all fall in love with the whimsical boy, Peter Pan.  Wendy thinks she will not grow up, but eventually she does, and so continues the Darling women legacy that began with her great-great grandmother, Great-Nana.  Wendy struggles with her love for Peter in Neverland and learning how to live and grow up in the real world, and her ambivalence puts strain on her new family of an eccentric sound-loving husband and her Goth daughter.  Wendy and her daughter Berry both have to deal with growing up, wild imaginations, and learning how to cultivate a healthy mother-daughter relationship.  This book has outstanding characters, including her author mother who writes about men who cannot grow up and her great-great grandmother with an impressive bosom and a knack for telling stories.  Wendy's grandmother is missing in action for the longest time, but she eventually makes a charming reappearance in Wendy's life.  I really have not come upon many books like The Lost Girls, with this blunt but interesting prose writing.  Adorable and cute, although the book tends to ramble and leave me wondering where the narrative was going.  Interesting book indeed!	2005-06-26
US	28679490	R2J847JWH857DO	0743448944	92105276	Mount Vernon Love Story: A Novel of George and Martha Washington	Books	2	3	7	N	N	quick read, not a lot of substance	Mount Vernon Love Story is actually Mary Higgins Clark's first book, and after I read the book, I could tell that it was, indeed, her first book.  I was rather surprised by the renown author's first writings because they reflect little of her current best selling books.  Mount Vernon Love Story is about George Washington, the United States' first President and his growing up in Virginia.  He serves in the French and Indian War and later becomes general in the American Revolution.  He loves another man's wife, but eventually he finds Martha \\"Patsy\\" Washington and loves her for her matronly self.  There's not much of a love story because he is at war most of the time, and even when they are together, the couple goes through very routine movements.  I still do not know a whole lot about the relationship between Washington and his beloved wife, and his own character remains a bit of a mystery.  This is a very forgettable book of Mary Higgins Clark.	2005-06-25
US	28679490	R31SLBL0SDWOCO	0679776362	966083134	I Was Amelia Earhart	Books	3	1	4	N	N	I Was Amelia Earhart	I Was Amelia Earhart talks about the famous aviator's last flight in 1937 to Howland Island, a small piece of land in the Pacific Ocean.  Amelia is already America's sweetheart because of her magnificent flying feats in a time when flying is still nascent.  She flies with a drunk named Fred Noonan, and after they crash on an island with no human life (Howland, perhaps) in the Pacific, an unexpected relationship later blossoms between the two pilots, if only because that is the only way to keep their sanities. <br /> <br />The beginning of the book is extremely beautiful and lyrical as it talks about Amelia's love affair with the sky.  The beginning also talks of Amelia's early years and her cold relationship with her husband (and simultaneously, her manager).  The book switches from first person to third person frequently, and that was ingenious until it got to be annoying and hard to read.  The last half of the book is a shame because it does not match the beginning in its beauty. The two pilots wander around the island, wander some more, ponder, and make love.  That's about it.  I Was Amelia Earhart lulls readers to sleep in the beginning because of how wonderous and surreal her story is, but then the reader may find himself really dozing in the end because of its flatness.	2005-06-20
US	28679490	RW2FXDV8X4296	0060740450	795338322	One Hundred Years of Solitude (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Mind-boggling!	In One Hundred Years of Solitude, Gabriel Garcia Marquez writes of a fictional, mystical town called Macondo.  The world is still recent and young, but one must question how young the world is due to conflicting descriptions in the book.  One of the village's main founding members is Jos Arcadio Buendia and his wife Ursula.  With these two people start the beginning of six generations of the Buendia family in Macondo.  Jos Arcadio Buendia seeks knowledge all the time, and an important traveling gypsy named Melquiades helps out Jos Arcadio Buendia in his quest.  Melquiades actually records important prophecies of the village that are not decoded until the village's last days.  Macondo starts off peacefully, and nobody dies for many years, but as time goes on, wars between the Liberals and the Conservatives rage with some members of the Buendia family executed, and capitalism takes its root with a banana company that leaves many massacred in a strike not recorded by the history books.   <br /> <br />Jos Arcadio Buendia actually becomes insane because he realizes that time is cyclical and always repeating itself.  In the six generations that follow, characters have the same names or names with slight variations, hinting at a cyclical history.  Many instances must refer to past events to determine the future.  A surreal air in this book is the result of many events and bustling people.  Some members of the family live for abnormally long periods of time; dead characters never really die because their ghosts stay in Macondo; a pure and beautiful Buendia girl rises to heaven; and passionate (and sometimes incestuous) relationships flourish all the time.  While some of the Buendia men are very hedonistic, especially for women, many men in the Buendia family have an air of solitude around them and never form true relationships with others.  At the end of the book, the solitude of one of the Buendias is what brings the demise of the mystical town. <br /> <br />One Hundred Years of Solitude, a book on distorted reality and cyclical history, is one of the most mind-boggling books I have ever encountered, and even though the book was very difficult to grasp, I'd say the 400+ pages were worth the magical trip.  Marquez is a master storyteller, and although there were parts that were agonizingly long, the book as a whole is to be commended as a magical classic.	2005-06-16
US	28679490	R22P1NSZAE9LG8	0064408191	496645228	Homeless Bird	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Homeless Bird	Since this book is designed for \\"ages 10 and up,\\" I was not expecting to be amazed by this book since I am well past 10 years old.  Well, Gloria Whelan proved me wrong! Despite its brevity, Homeless Bird is a heartwarming tale that tells 13-year-old Koly's plight in India very beautifully.  The world is on the brink of becoming modern, with the Brahman scribes gradually being replaced by the new technology of computers, yet many people still live in poor villages, and many young daughters like Koly are given away in arranged marriages.  Koly, at 13, marries a sickly young boy who dies shortly after, and she must deal with her uncaring in-laws, with her mother-in-law (sass in Hindi) being the worse of the two.  From her father-in-law (sassur in Hindi), she learns of a poem of a homeless bird by a famous Indian poet, and Koly's life becomes like that of one as she is abandoned in the large city of Vrindavan by her heartless sass.  Koly seeks to find a home in life just like the bird.   <br /> <br />Whelan has our heroine go through many trials, and like the bird, Koly finally finds her place in life after discovering new places, jobs, and most importantly, people that care about her.  Whelan writes a good story while incorporating some Hindi vocabulary.  While other authors stumble at this, she makes the story naturally flow even with the foreign words here and there.  I recommend this book for those, especially younger audiences, who want a good story with a happy ending!	2005-06-07
US	28679490	R3EAYOSCS94SS2	0312282001	338498691	My Dearest Cecelia: A Novel of the Southern Belle Who Stole General Sherman's Heart	Books	4	7	7	N	N	My Dearest Cecelia: another facet to the Civil War	My Dearest Cecelia begins in 1891, years after the American Civil War, but the novel transports the readers back to 1837 at the dazzling West Point ball bristling with many handsome soldiers and beautiful women.  One of the ladies there is Southern belle Cecelia Stovall of Augusta, Georgia, with her brothers, and she is saved from an unwanted man by none other than William Tecumseh Sherman.  In the years to come, he will become the South's greatest enemy, but for now, he is a quiet young soldier who becomes drawn to Cecelia's beauty and character.  After their first dance, Cecelia and William quickly fall in love with each other, but in the years to come, people like her Southern gentleman of a brother pry the couple apart.  Cecelia is sent to London before going back to Augusta, but she and William never stop thinking about each other. <br /> <br />I am really surprised, but warmed, at the chemistry between the two.  They barely know each other, yet they both spend years upon years pining for each other.  Sometimes, their love appears a bit shallow (hence four stars), but the offense can be pardonable.  Cecelia risks her life and country to try to communicate with William, but for years, there is very, very little contact.  Even after they are destined to marry other people, and even after William's Union is pitted against Ceceila's Georgia, their love never dies.  This is a classic tale of undying romance, and there is some history in the background.  Diane Haeger makes the Southerners sound believable with their truncating of the r's in words like \\"for\\" and \\"your\\" - all the better for the imagination.  My Dearest Cecelia can, I hope, satisfy the romantic, the historian, and the Southerner.	2005-06-07
US	28679490	R1EPBZXBP41OU1	059003152X	952104094	The Rotten Romans (Horrible Histories)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	The Rotten Romans, a fun way to learn history!	I love these Horrible Histories books because they appeal to people of all ages.  Although I'm not 10 years old anymore, the antics of this book still appeals to me.  The book covers some brief moments in Roman history, like dealing with the Britons.  It is meant to make history appear fun and gruesome to younger audiences.  The book gives lots of little known fun facts and stories.  The cartoons in here are absolutely priceless; they're really amusing to view!  The Rotten Romans and the other books in the series are worth a browse.	2005-06-01
US	28679490	R3MRQIXPAUY96G	0609808893	959856545	When We Were Gods: A Novel of Cleopatra	Books	3	0	3	N	N	When We Were Gods: for a brief moment, anyway...	When We Were Gods: A Novel of Cleopatra by Colin Falconer opens with descriptions of the deadly snakes that will forever be part of Cleopatra's life, both figuratively and literally.  Her father, Ptolemy XII, warns the ten-year-old about how she must learn to kill or be killed.  Eight years later, at eighteen, Cleopatra inherits the throne of Egypt.  Egypt was already weakened by Ptolemy XII's rule, so she seeks help from the mighty Roman Empire.  She makes her first dazzling appearance in front of the great Julius Caesar in a rolled up carpet, and from there starts a powerful love affair.  Cleopatra is a deadly woman to be reckoned with because she is as intelligent as she is beautiful.  After Caesar is killed, she shortly falls in love with his general, Marcus Antonius (Antony), and the world slowly starts to spiral down before her. <br /> <br />Good topic to write a historical fiction novel on, but Falconer falls short of making this book come alive.  There were lots of times when I wanted to skip whole chapters because the book was not moving fast enough and/or the book was just emotionless.  I really loved the spectacular, dramatic ending, but the 300-some pages between it were mostly empty.  I never came to love the main characters: Cleopatra, Antony, or Caesar.  Cleopatra was portrayed to me as this cold beauty who dallied in politics.  Antony was drunk and had sex all the time, which disgusted me because his better qualities never fully shined.  Caesar was just as cold as Cleopatra, and even in their short love affair, he was never affectionate to his \\"kitten.\\"  The only character that was worthy of attention in this book is Cleopatra's faithful eunuch, Mardian.  He sticks to his queen whatever the circumstances may be and constantly gives her good advice. <br /> <br />The pages in the middle of the book were an eternity to finish.  What started out wonderfully lulled in the middle, but the ending compensated.  I am glad I finished this book only because ofthe dramatic ending that left me in awe.	2005-05-31
US	28679490	R2F30K3U8FZ1I8	0439076668	396904734	The Royal Diaries: Marie Antoinette, Princess of Versailles, Austria-France, 1769 (The Royal Diaries)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Marie Antoinette	Marie Antoinette: Princess of Versailles by Kathryn Lasky was one of my favorite books growing up as a preteen, along with the rest of The Royal Diaries series.  This fictional diary gives insight on a young Austrian archduchess, Marie Antoinette, or Maria Antonia, as she was first known before becoming Queen of France in the 18th century. <br /> <br />The diary opens in 1769, and Marie is only thirteen years old.  She writes about her efforts to read and write French better, for she is to be wed to Louis Auguste, the grandson of the French King Louis XV.  Marie also learns about etiquette, and she laments about having no privacy anymore as her domineering mother, the Empress Theresa of the Holy Roman Empire of the Germanic nations, breathes down her neck in trying to make Marie become a Queen.  Marie is appalled at the decadence of the Versailles Palace in France, and she learns how to deal with her pimply new husband and an archrival in court. <br /> <br />Lasky does a good job showing the naive, human side of France's most dazzling yet tragic queen as a young girl as she learns how to become a woman and queen almost overnight.  I loved the humor, the sorrow, and the characters in this diary.  Lasky always does a wonderful job with historical fiction directed at younger people, and although I'm a bit older than a preteen now, I still enjoyed reading this book another time around.	2005-05-26
US	28679490	R10Y36DSCI7ZBT	0152164928	165886198	Troy	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Troy	Troy by Adele Geras summarizes the last weeks of the Trojan War.  The popular reason behind the war is that Paris of Troy stole Helen, the most beautiful woman on earth, from a Greek king.  Geras takes us behind the walls of Troy, in the palace of King Priam, where some of the colorful residents include the Helen and her lover Paris.  Here, the palace watches the deadly war that goes on outside the gates between the Greeks and the Trojans. <br /> <br />The book takes on a different perspective; the story is not viewed in the eyes of the major players/characters of the war.  Instead, the story is viewed by two sisters, Marpessa and Xanthe.  Marpessa is the younger of the two, and she is Helen's attendant.  Marpessa can see the Greek gods appear every now and then, and these deities often talk to her about what is to come.  Xanthe is the foolish and love-struck attendant of Astyanax, the son of the Trojan hero Prince Hector.  The book opens with Xanthe attending the wounded in the \\"Blood Room,\\" and she is struck by one of Eros's arrows when she attends a beautiful young man, Alastor.  Throughout the book, she pines for the young man, but the love is unrequited.  Ironically, he falls for her sister.  A soap opera ensues in the many pages, but there is a healthy balance between that and the war outside.  I love the character of Marpessa because she reminds me of myself: quiet, observant, and loyal. <br /> <br />Geras poignantly captures the destruction of the war, with blood, guts, and glory, and the (spoiler for those who don't know the outcome) book effectly ends with the burning of Troy.  She mentions the heroes of the war, mainly Hector and Achilles of the Greeks, and their epic duels and gruesome deaths, but I wish she focused more on them and not what went on in the palace. It was nice to see the grief of Andromache, Hector's wife, but after awhile, I became tired of her grieving.  Periodically, there is a group of gossip kitchen women that talk about the war directly or indirectly, but later in the book, the gossips become a little trite.  <br /> <br />One thing I think is unique is the random appearances of the Greek gods to the ordinary people.  Gods like Aphrodite or Hermes always explain about what is going to happen next, but they and what they say always become a faint memory in the past. <br /> <br />Overall, Troy is a good book.  Readers are always left wondering what is going to happen to the characters next, especially (in my opinion) Marpessa.  This is not the best young adult book I have read on the Trojan War because there are some trite parts, but this is a nice pageturner with some good description of the destruction of war.	2005-05-26
US	28679490	R2KKGQBTEWH6L3	0743227441	512398584	The Other Boleyn Girl	Books	5	3	5	N	N	The Other Boleyn Girl: riveting historical fiction!	The Other Boleyn Girl, set in the years 1521 to 1536, focuses on the Boleyn/Howard families and their endless quest to climb the social ladder in King Henry VIII's court.  In particular, this book deals with Mary and Anne Boleyn, two sisters who could not be more different in looks and personalities.  They are Boleyns due to their father's side and Howards due to their mother's.  Anne is the dark-haired, seductive beauty who marries the king and is later executed for witchcraft and adultery.  Mary, the younger, fairer Boleyn sister, is actually the girl who starts the Boleyn chapter in English history.  Mary, married at a young age, catches Henry's eye with her pretty fair looks and charm, and her relatives, the Howard family, seize the opportunity to make Mary Henry's mistress and to glorify the Howard/Boleyn names.  Even after conceiving two beautiful children, Mary does not achieve a higher status other than the king's mistress, so Anne takes her place.  Anne, with her deadly ambition, is determined to outshadow her fortunate sister and leave her mark in history.  The king divorces his faithful but barren Spanish wife of many years and breaks from the Roman Catholic Church so he can marry Anne, and she will do anything, even go to the gates of Hell, to bring a son for the sake of the English throne. <br /> <br />Meanwhile, Mary, no longer the Howard favorite, discovers the simple pleasures of life on a farm, and she decides to follow her heart for once and marry her true love.  However, she is forced to watch the poignant rise and fall of her best friend and rival, Anne, in the whimsical English court.  Anne is constantly kept on her toes, both literally and figuratively, to please the king.  Henry acts like a spoiled child who will stop at nothing when he wants something, especially that something being a legitimate son to the throne, and one wrong dance move means certain death. <br /> <br />This book wonderfully illustrates the deadly ambition that seizes manyfamilies like the Howards and turns the daughters and sons into mere pawns of an intricate game.  Some of them escape alive, like Mary and her children (and her new husband), but others like Anne end up greeting the scaffold and not leaving it alive.  The Other Boleyn Girl shows the whims of love and lust; Mary eventually discovers true love (to my joy), and she is the only fortunate member in the Boleyn/Howard families, as her brother bitterly notes.  I love the magic and the suspense of the book.  It is one of the few books I have stayed up many nights in a row, sacrificing precious hours of sleep, just so I could finish reading it.  Philippa Gregory blends historical fact and fiction so well; she truly makes Mary, an obscure character in English history, come alive.  Although this book is about 700 pages long, it is a true page-turner that keeps the reader wanting more.	2005-05-22
US	28679490	R3NN1AG3CWQYIQ	0385335482	841557271	Confessions of a Shopaholic (Shopaholic, No 1)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Not as good as I thought it would be :(	I laughed so much in Can You Keep a Secret, but then again, I did read that before I picked up Confessions of a Shopaholic.  Set in England, Confessions of a Shopaholic reveals the story of Rebecca (Becky) Bloomwood.  She works for Successful Saving as a financial journalist and has this habit of buying everything she desires (she knows her fashion) and maxing out her credit cards.  When the bills start to pile up and the phone calls start coming, she does all she can to run away from her financial problems, from calling in sick with a rare fever to skipping out on meetings with the bank.  The book starts off really cute, with Becky screaming OH MY GOSH I LOVE THAT _______ every other page, but after awhile, her delightful squeals at great sales were a little dull and repetitive as I was muttering, \\"Just pay your debts already!\\" about halfway into the book.  I am glad, however, that she finally learns to wake up and deal with her debt problems by the end of the book (and acquires some fame and a handsome boyfriend to boot), but the book just isn't as good or as fast paced (in an \\"I-want-to-know-what-happens-next\\" way) as I thought it would be.	2005-02-24
US	28679490	R2XG96W1MR6KF0	051511331X	504254741	November of the Heart	Books	3	8	8	N	N	November of the Heart	The setting of November of the Heart is Minnesota, 1895.  Lorna Barnett, the central figure, is the beautiful eighteen-year-old daughter of Commodore Gideon Barnett, a proud man who's a member of the White Bear Yacht Club.  The Barnetts are high on the social ladder, and the Barnetts expect Lorna to marry the handsome, well-off Taylor DuVal.  However, one summer at their lake house, Lorna unexpectedly falls in love with the kitchenhand, twenty-five-year-old Jens Harkens, the Norweigan, and they begin a passionate, risky relationship.  They both know that if they are discovered, Jens will be banished from the lakehouse.  Gideon Barnett is passionate about racing boats, and after bitterly losing a race, Jens suggests that he knows how to build a better boat (after all, he is a Norweigan), so he is commissioned to build a boat for the next race.  However, his tenure is cut short as his and Lorna's relationship is exposed, and Lorna's life is almost ruined with scandal. <br /> <br />A poignant, passionate read that deals with love at its cruelest and at its heartwarming best, but a lot of times, I felt like the plot was too stagnant and uninteresting.  There are not a lot of driving moments/action that make the plot move forward, and the ending is resolved a little too neatly.  However, if one does not mind the verbiage and the intense sexual scenes (if one is not comfortable with these kinds of things), then one can enjoy this cute \\"coming of age\\" novel for Lorna Barnett and her undying love for her Norweigan.	2005-02-12
US	28679490	RZQ1D8ZOPP6EH	0590441108	573213556	The Greek Gods (Point)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A good introduction to the Greek myths	The Greek Gods is a good introduction, especially for younger audiences, to the wonderful myths of the Greeks.  The book provides some stories of the gods of Olympia and other important mythical characters in a storytelling-like manner (if one reads the stories out loud, one shall find out what I mean). Once again, the book is only the tip of the iceberg because some of the tales about the gods are meager.  Nevertheless, The Greek Gods is an entertaining, short read!	2005-02-05
US	28679490	R1TWI6LA0VJBJL	0684853302	194940241	The Touch	Books	4	5	5	N	N	The Touch	Alexander Kinross is a proud Scot who, with his vast store of intelligence, leaves his home at age fifteen, travels around the world, and eventually arrives at the new continent of Australia (New South Wales) and founds a gold-mining town.  He makes fortunes, but in order to secure his position in the world, he sends for a young Scottish bride, sixteen-year-old Elizabeth Drummond.  Elizabeth was raised in a devout Protestant village where she lived shielded from the outside world, so the move from Scotland to Australia is a tremendous eye-opener, both physically and mentally, for the young girl.  From the start, Elizabeth takes a disliking to Alexander, but she performs her duties as a wife.  No matter how hard Alexander tries to please his young wife, she is unresponsive, so he turns to his mistress, the seductive Ruby Costevan, for sexual comfort.  The Kinrosses live in a grand mansion in the town of Kinross, but Elizabeth is not pleased by the material things that Alexander supplies her.  Rather, she seeks someone that she can truly love.  \\"How can I look into those diabolical eyes and tell their owner that he is not the husband I would choose?\\" <br /> <br />The book continues with daily life and hardships, including the birth of Eleanor (Nell) who is eerily similar to Alexander and poor Anna whose short life is, it itself, a great tragedy.  The book poignantly covers a span of about thirty years, chronicling the hopes, the joys, and the misfortunes of the Kinrosses and the people surrounding them.  The main characters come alive with rich descriptions and frequent dialogue.  Alexander, despite his penchant for material success, is a character to be pitied because he truly realizes his mistakes with Elizabeth years into the marriage, and by then, Elizabeth has already given her heart away to someone.  Although Elizabeth sometimes strikes me as meek, she bears so much suffering before she finally attains true happiness near the end of the novel.  If the reader does not find their lives interesting, there are also Nell, Anna, and Ruby's illegitimate son Lee whose stories can be a book in its own.  Nell is too intelligent for her own good and strives to be a doctor, and Anna's life is cursed from the beginning.  Lee is the handsome half-Chinese son whose heart is embroiled in a moral struggle. <br /> <br />There are some sections of the book that are downright dry and uninteresting.  They are mainly the parts about historical events, but skipping the sections do not detract from the overall effect of the book. <br /> <br />The Touch is an emotional saga that focuses on the interwining of the Kinrosses and the Costevans.  Some chapters are a bit verbose, but as a whole, I found this book to be an enjoyable read.  There are cheerful moments, and there are heart-breaking moments.  I hope the reader enjoys tracing their turbulent lives as much as I did.	2005-02-04
US	28679490	R309246B6A4ZDN	0618179070	652578037	The Book of Lists for Teens	Books	4	3	4	N	N	The Book of Lists for Teens	The Book of Lists for Teens is an entertaining read for teens of all ages.  The book address issues from dating to dealing with racism.  Sometimes the advice is serious; others are just plain silly.  I like the variety in this book although some lists are more interesting and useful than others.  This book gives the readers a lot of miscellaneous facts - perfect for those who love trivia!  If the reader is reading this for the first time, my suggestion is to skip around - reading it back to front is dull, and some subjects simply may not interest the reader.  All in all, a book worth checking out!	2005-01-26
US	28679490	R1YIQF4UQP2RE8	1891799053	597166849	100 of the World's Greatest Mysteries: Strange Secrets	Books	4	1	1	N	N	100 of the World's Greatest Mysteries	100 of the World's Greatest Mysteries is a good book for those who want to know trivia for Jeopardy or those who want some interesting, new dinner table conversation.  E. Randall Floyd incorporates many of the world's mysteries, with some being more well-known than others, into one colorful book.  Although some of the tales did not have lots of detail, most of the tales were pleasantly unusual and had enough details to keep me satiated. I especially liked the stories about the long-lost cities or empires.  Once again, I wish that there was more concrete evidence for some of these tales.  However, this book is not a bad collection and worth checking out in the library.	2005-01-11
US	28679490	RE2WTC8LP3C0V	0671622005	641673009	Child of the Northern Spring	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Child of the Northern Spring	Child of the Northern Spring, the first in a trilogy, covers Guinevere's early years, narrated by the Princess herself.  I am impressed at how Ms. Persia Wooley made Gwen a believable narrator that readers can connect with, for I found this Gwen a sincere young woman who is, at first, reluctant to leave her life for the ways of the court.  Gwen is the modest little tomboy who eventually grows up and weds who will be the greatest king of all Britain.  The reader can laugh, cry, and smile with Gwen (who, in this book, is not an arrogant prick like most people picture Guinevere) all throughout the book as she meets characters like an Irish lad Kevin, the powerful Lady Morgan, and the stately Queen Igraine.  I am impressed by Wooley's first book in the trilogy, and I am looking forward to reading the others!	2004-12-27
US	28679490	R3RPY4VIK5OCD3	0451209745	778365456	Until You	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Until You	Until You is my first Bertrice Small book, and I was introduced to her talent for blending history and romance together.  Although I love both elements, I felt that Until You had too many steamy sex scenes and not enough actual romance.    The beautiful Rosamund Bolton, widowed many times already at twenty-two and the handsome aging Lord Patrick Leslie instantly fall in love at the Scottish court in the early 1500s.  The first of many sex scenes appears on page seven - too early for me!  I did not buy the \\"love at first sight\\" explanation because it was more fancy talk with \\"lust\\" than actual love.  Later on in the book, Lord Leslie embarks on a journey to the Mediterranean San Lorenzo to deliver a message for King James IV of Scotland, and Rosamund travels with him.  More passion erupts between the two lovers, and although Ms. Small writes descriptive scenes - perfect for the readers who love this kind of stuff - once again, I still found it hard to believe there was actual \\"love\\" going on between Lord Leslie and Rosamund.    Despite the book's flaws, the historical background is wonderful as King Henry VIII begins to flex his power in Europe and the fragile peace with Scotland is threatened.  The characters of the monarchs came to life for me - the just King James IV and his wife Queen Margaret Tudor, Spanish Kate (Queen Katherine of Aragon), and the lusty Henry VIII all have many pages of the book dedicated to them.    Yes, Until You blends history and romance, but in this case, it was more history and repetitive lust...hence the three stars.	2004-12-26
US	28679490	R3E4DGYGCCO438	0152045635	139938581	East	Books	4	1	1	N	N	East	A woman named Eugenia believes the birth direction of a person determines his/her characteristics. The youngest daughter, Rose, is intended to replace the \\"East\\" child that has died, but she is born facing North, to the dismay of Eugenia. It is prophesized that the North born child will travel far away and be lost in the snow. <br /> <br />Rose's sister falls ill, and a white bear appears. To save the girl, Rose travels with the white bear to faraway lands to his castle in the mountain. There, she discovers an enchantment and through trials, hardships, and many miles in the Arctic Circle, plays an important role in the white bear's fate. <br /> <br />This touching story has elements of Beauty and the Beast. Both women discover the humanity within the beasts and do all they can to save them. There are many narrators, and the most poignant is the white bear who is so lost within himself. He tries to discover who he is, and with Rose's aid, he eventually finds himself. Edith Pattou is good with page-turners in the novel: just when the story is reaching a critical point, the next page has something else. East is heart-warming and magical, and I highly recommend it!	2004-12-12
US	28679490	R1BI0AKRJD2HIZ	0064407055	505341703	Ella Enchanted (Trophy Newbery)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Ella Enchanted	I was enraptured by the book in the very opening.  The very thought that Ella, cursed at birth by a fairy named Lucinda, must be obedient and obey every single command, trivial or not, seemed very alarming to me.  If someone told her to go jump off a bridge, she must because she cannot resist the order.  Throughout the book, Ella is showered with ugly commands by odious people, and I felt the pain with her as she searches for Lucinda to break the curse.  In her journey, she is sustained by a friend she meets at finishing school and the cute Prince Charmont (Char) who grows fond of Ella. <br /> <br />My favorite part of the book is the correspondence between Char and fifteen-year-old Ella.  The moments they share together are very sweet, and she loves him so much that she wants to protect him from her horrible curse. <br /> <br />I have one complaint, though.  I like how Levine ends the book, but I felt the last twenty pages or so were very rushed.  One minute, Lucinda is depicted as odious, and the next, almost everything is better.  The resolution happened within two paragraphs, and I just wished that Levine elaborated a little more.  Other than that, a very enchanting book!	2004-12-06
US	28679490	R37B7Q839X2H3P	0590203444	323802170	The Pirate's Son	Books	3	2	3	N	N	The Pirate's Son	In England 1717, Nathan and Maud Gull's father died, and with nothing else in their lives, they decide to leave with Tamo White, the son of a pirate, to Madagascar.  They enjoy the freedoms of the Madagascar village, and Tamo, being half Madagascar, fits right in.  However, their peace is disrupted by the appearance of real, ruthless pirates who threaten to destroy the villagers' way of life on the island.  Tamo, Nathan, and Maud must stick together to thwart the pirates' evil schemes. <br /> <br />This book has a lot of scenes with action and adventure, but the book really needed some clear-cut transitions.  One minute, they're trying to outwit pirates while in the next paragraph, I find that Nathan is ill.  Also, the book is called The Pirate's Son, yet I don't really see Tamo grow and flourish in this book.  Action, he does a lot, but I, as a reader, do not really see Tamo's inner mind, besides his hatred for his parents.  Most of the maturing and changing is done by \\"mousy Maud\\" which was a nice journey to trace.  She transforms from a pious Christian maiden to a strong, willful \\"Madagascar\\" island girl. <br /> <br />The Pirate's Son book was a good one-day read with pirate adventures, but I think it had so much potential to be much more than a good one-day read.  I think that the author could have spent more time on character development because from beginning to end, my thoughts about most of the characters are still the same.	2004-11-26
US	28679490	RXXI85ICS5KIZ	0060289597	390451106	The Sterkarm Handshake	Books	4	1	1	N	N	The Sterkarm Handshake	In the 21st century, a time traveling machine, called the Tube, has been invented.  Travellers are transported to another dimension, another time: 16th century Scotland/England border.  There, a savage people called the Sterkarms are fiercely protective of \\"their\\" land.  People say never shake hands with a Sterkarm because they shake hands with their right hand but keep their left (dominant) hand on their daggers, ensuring that these people will not keep their promises.  The travellers are called Elves by the Sterkarms, and these people greatly value the \\"little white pills\\" (aspirin) of the Elves. <br /> <br />Meanwhile, a plump lady named Andrea has been sent to learn the ways of the Sterkarms.  She falls in love with a beautiful young warrior named Per.  Everything seems to be happy, but the corporation FUP wants to go into the 16th century side and start taking the resources of the Sterkarms.  In a skirmish, Per receives a grave wound, and Andrea riskily takes Per to the 21st century for treatment.  This action spurs the beginning of great animosity between the Elves and the Sterkarms.  In the end, she must decide whether her love for Per is enough to make her stay in the 16th century. <br /> <br />Wow.  This is a really good time-traveling novel.  The transitions between 16th and 21st are smooth.  The chapters are labeled either 16 or 21, so the reader has no trouble knowing his/her place.  Each side is as interesting as the other, but the majority of the book takes place in the 16th side. <br /> <br />This novel has everything: action, suspense, drama, romance.  There are always skirmishes happening, and it is very easy to envision scenes in the mind.  There is dramatic irony in the pages: the Sterkarms are quite primitive, and they often do not know of the \\"evil\\" plots of the destructive Elves.  Near the end, the plot grows suspenseful because it shows Andrea's dangerous mingling between the Elves and the Sterkarms--which side should she be on?  And of course, the romance--Per and Andrea, despite differences in age and body size, hit it off really well as they constantly embrace each other.  There are other characters that add flavor to the novel like the many relatives of Per and a homeless bum named Joe who actually becomes a Sterkarm. <br /> <br />The rest of the book is awesome, but I have complaints with the ending.  The end gets really confusing, with all the clashing and whatnot between almost all the major characters in the book.  After all of it was over, it felt like a tornado came by and left nothing but confusion, hence the 4 stars.  Despite the craziness, the book leaves us on a romantically bittersweet note with Per and Andrea.  I really enjoyed this rare gem of a book.	2004-11-08
US	28679490	RHWLRZ0E0THO1	0440170796	114174650	The Promise	Books	3	12	14	N	N	The Promise	Michael Hillyard, heir of a prosperous New York corporation, is in love with an orphaned artist, Nancy McAllister.  His mother, Marion, is a steel-eyed woman who is determined to have the best for her son and the company, and she does not favor the relationship between Michael and Nancy.  They make a promise that they will never say goodbye to each other.  One day, Michael and Nancy drive off to elope, but a horrible accident happens, leaving Michael and his friend hurt and Nancy with her face destroyed.  In attempt to get rid of the girl, Marion offers a new life for Nancy: She will send the girl to a plastic surgeon in San Fransisco to repair her face if Nancy promises never to contact Michael.  Realizing there is no hope left, Nancy agrees, and for the next two years, she lives in San Francisco and takes on a new identity.  Marion tells Michael that Nancy died, and for the next two years, he becomes a workaholic to numb the pain in his heart.  The question remains: Will Michael and Nancy ever reunite? <br /> <br />Good plot line, but I wish the story could have been a little longer and complex.  Many times, it felt like \\"This happened.  Next thing you know, this happened\\" ... at times, a little dry.  The ending could have been better because all the events leading up to it were nerve-wracking and exciting, but the conclusion felt unfinished and truncated.  I had some unanswered questions in the end... <br /> <br />The Promise is my first Danielle Steel book, and if all of her books are like this one, I may have second thoughts on picking up another one of her books.	2004-10-29
US	28679490	R2C8R3XT6BZJZ8	044040942X	727051773	The Battle for the Castle	Books	3	10	11	N	N	There was a battle?	The Battle for the Castle takes place two years after the much-loved The Castle in the Attic.  William Lawrence celebrates his twelveth birthday with his family and his best friend Jason Stubbs Hardy.  The two boys are growing up, and one of the rituals of age is to jump a train.  Jason, the athletic biker, succeeds, but William does not, and this gnaws at his mind.  William receives the magical token featured in the first book from his old nanny, Mrs. Phillips, that can shrink and enlarge living things.  He shows Jason, and they decide to shrink themselves for the grandiose castle in the attic, where another completely different world exists, one of knights, squires, and of course, monsters.  William meets up with old friends (from The Castle in the Attic) and makes some new ones, the most important being Gudrin, a mystical blonde girl of twelve.  The trouble starts when sightings of a ghost ship in the sea and mysterious bones in the river occur.  Little did they know that hundreds of rats are on board the ship, and the rats threaten to eat up the entire castle and its inhabitants. <br /> <br />Good plot, but the events in it were a little...dry.  Even though this is directed to a younger audience, the rats do not do a whole lot, and I am disappointed that their leader rat (the big one) is very simple minded.  Also, where did the rats come from?  Any correlation with the rats in William's attic?  The rats' end is, I think, unsatisfying... the first half of the book is really good as it builds up the suspense, but by the second half, one would have thought nothing happened.  Was there really a battle?  I think there could have been a more grandiose battle because the characters basically hid the whole time. <br /> <br />Also, I admire William, Jason, and Gudrin, but sadly, the book does not delve into their characters enough to leave an impression on me.  They have so much potential to be really awesome characters. <br /> <br />The Battle for the Castle is probablyentertaining for the younger readers... but I (who happens to be a little older)? I want the excitement that makes The Castle in the Attic so good, and The Battle for the Castle simply does not capture the excitement like its predecessor did so well.	2004-10-25
US	28679490	RG04IJTF08SVJ	0765343436	559330677	Daughter of the Forest (The Sevenwaters Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	a masterpiece	Daughter of the Forest is the first in the Sevenwaters Trilogy by Juliet Marillier.  Although part of a trilogy, I think this book is good enough to stand on its own.    Sorcha is the only daughter of Lord Colum of Sevenwaters, an organized and peaceful settlement surrounded by forests in Erin (Ireland).  It is a land of the mystical, for the Fair Folk dwell in the area as well.  Sorcha has six older brothers, and although they are a tight-knit bunch, Sorcha is especially close to Conor, a druid in the making, and Finbar, the quiet intellectual because among the three they can communicate with their minds.  Sevenwaters is under patrol for invaders (Britons) from across the sea, and one day, it is a Briton taken prisoner that marks the beginning of many changes in Sorcha's tranquil life.    A beautiful sorceress, the lady Oonagh, comes to the peaceful settlement and instigiates the biggest changes on Sevenwaters, and life is never the same.  Oonagh transforms her brothers into swans, and the only way to break the spell is to weave six shirts (for the six brothers) from the fibers of a prickly plant while uttering not a sound for the entire duration.  It is a terrible task, both emotionally and physically draining, that will take some years for Sorcha to complete.  It is a task that will take her many miles away from the only land she ever knew.  It is a task that can be only completed by steadfast love and devotion.    Ms. Marillier weaves an excellent tapestry of a story, for she uses lots of description and subjective passages that appeal to the readers' emotions, at times being heartwrenching.  Because Sorcha has limited dialogue in the book, a lot of deep emotions are conveyed and/or told to the readers, and many of these passages strike a chord in my heart.    Daughter of the Forest:  Excellent plot, intriguing characters (although the Briton mentioned in the beginning was sadly neglected), and...marvelous overall.	2004-10-23
US	28679490	R2G0Y8X17LOFGP	076790592X	725864791	Tuesdays with Morrie: An Old Man, a Young Man, and Life's Greatest Lesson	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Tuesdays with Morrie	With books, I have a penchant for fiction, so this nonfiction narrative I took to heart because all of this actually happened to real people, and I am left amazed at the impact of such a little book. <br /> <br />Nearly twenty years after finishing college, Mitch Albom learns of his college professor, Morrie Schwartz, and his illness (ALS/Lou Gehrig's disease) on national TV with the title \\"A Professor's Final Course: His Own Death.\\"  Mitch then visits with Morrie every Tuesday, and the professor teaches many valuable lessons of life that he has learned over the years.  Morrie offers lots of insight from topics ranging from emotions to money to death, and he concocts aphorisms... many of them that I (and I am sure many other readers) take to heart. <br /> <br />The ending was very touching... I must have read the \\"We Say Goodbye\\" chapter three times because it was so emotional that it brought the beginnings of tears in my eyes. <br /> <br />Being a young woman, I still have my whole life out in front of me.  Reading a book like this makes me appreciate my current life and what I have.  Morrie has shared many life lessons, so when the time comes for me to experience these milestones, both major and minor, in life, hopefully this professor's words will come to mind.  Morrie really has left a \\"lasting gift\\" for this world in the form of Mitch Albom's Tuesdays with Morrie.	2004-10-20
US	28679490	R3SN3T2CE58AWK	0152050795	594712968	Finishing Becca: A Story about Peggy Shippen and Benedict Arnold (Great Episodes)	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Finishing Becca	Becca Syng and her family live in Philadelphia in 1778, in the heart of the War for American Independence.  Her family used to be well off, but an economic crisis ruined the family, and her father, a renowned silversmith, died.  Becca's mother, a seamstress, then marries Henry Job Claghorn.  Becca's brother, Blair, is at Valley Forge. <br /> <br />Because there is a lack of servants in town, Becca is sent to the prestigious Quaker house of the Shippens to be Peggy Shippen's maid.  Because she feels she has \\"missing pieces\\" in her life, Becca also \\"finishes\\" her education.  At the Shippen household, Becca is introduced to a world that escapes from the harsh reality of the outside world.  Peggy Shippen is a beautiful teenage girl who captures the essence of the \\"decadence\\" of the British (book jacket) because while the \\"Rebels\\" (the fighting colonists) are starving and clothesless in the winter of 1778, the British in Philadelphia (along with Peggy) throw extravagant, wasteful parties and go to the theater. <br /> <br />Peggy is quite a lady, and at first, she loves a British officer, but later, as the story progresses, she meets the American General Benedict Arnold, and despite the age differences, they fall in love.  Becca's primary job is to act as a witness to the events surrounding the Shippen household and Benedict Arnold.  With Peggy's strong inclination towards the British, she convinces Arnold to turn traitor to the Americans. <br /> <br />I admire the way Ann Rinaldi depicts the characters of Peggy Shippen and Benedict Arnold because they seem to be in tune with each other.  To Becca, they are both quite \\"evil.\\"  She remarks that Peggy has found one of her own missing pieces (Arnold), and the finding did not turn out so pleasant. <br /> <br />Something I find disappointing in the book (hence the three stars) is the lack of development on Becca's part.  She mainly acts as a witness, and even with her \\"finishing\\" herself, I am still not satisfied at her conclusion.  On a side note, there is another character that does not receive the attention he deserves.  While at the Shippen household, Becca helps a young Rebel soldier escape, and he eventually makes it to Becca's farm and helps out the family.  At this, I am very disappointed that this character is not developed well because he has so much potential to be a complex character that adds to Becca's story.  Alas, the reader gets bits and pieces of this character, and only in the end is there any major mentioning of him, and even then, it is brief. <br /> <br />When there is a first person narrator, I believe the narrator's own story should be given a lot of weight, even if the main story plot (here, Peggy and Benedict) is not about the narrator.  Historically, Ann Rinaldi does a great job (as always), but I think she should have gone into more depth with Becca Syng's (who, by the way, is fictional) own story.	2004-10-19
US	28679490	R14DAGMPBPOY9H	0590742590	182556090	The Second Bend in the River	Books	3	7	7	N	N	The Second Bend in the River	The Second Bend in the River describes a young girl named Rebecca Galloway who falls in love with the great Indian leader, Tecumseh.  Her family had moved to the Ohio territory to escape slavery in the newly formed United States of America.  Beginning in the summer of 1798, the book traces Rebecca's life to 1813, during the War of 1812 with Great Britain. <br /> <br />When Rebecca first meets Tecumseh, she is only about seven years old, and their first conversation is really cute (\\"Tecumtha\\").  From that point on, Tecumseh and Rebecca develop a riveting friendship that eventually warms into deep love.  Rebecca teaches Tecumseh some English while he teaches her how to canoe and some aspects of his heritage.  The book goes on to cover Rebecca's growing up, the Galloway family (her many brothers and one sister), the town events and people, the hardships of life in the woods, and the people's distrust of Indians.  All this gave me an insight of what life was like in the early 1800s, but oftentimes, I wondered when the book was going to get back to Tecumseh and Rebecca.  Plus, the action could have been more in depth, for some parts were a little dry, and I suppose more description could have been used, although I thought the love between Tecumseh and Rebecca was depicted very sweetly.  By the end, only the most stoic of readers will not utter a cry of empathy. <br /> <br />As she matures, her love for the Indian chief grows deeper, and in the end, she has to make a crucial decision that will affect the \\"fate of thousands.\\"  A bittersweet ending, but a good one nonetheless.	2004-10-12
US	28679490	R36CGO5YZTK4H7	0590543199	672592644	Mine Eyes Have Seen	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Mine Eyes Have Seen	Mine Eyes Have Seen recounts the days before the abolitionist John Brown leads the raid on Harpers Ferry in the summer of 1859.  His 15-year-old daughter Annie Brown narrates the tale, and although there is not a lot of action plot-wise, there is a plethora of poignant emotions because besides telling John Brown's story, this book is Annie's story.    Annie has always felt alienated from her father, partially because she is indirectly responsible for the inadvertent death of her younger sister, and John Brown never really \\"forgave\\" Annie. In the summer of 1859, at the request of her father, Annie and her sister-in-law Martha move to John Brown's farm near Harpers Ferry where he is secretly gathering abolitionists for his raid.  Among the men gathered are her brothers and many other men of diverse backgrounds.  Annie is the watchdog and warns the inhabitiants of their \\"hideout\\" of suspicious people approaching.  Her beloved, Dauphin Thompson, is along for the ride, and although they love each other, their relationship becomes strained as the zealous cause of John Brown gets all the men riled.  It is hinted that their relationship, from the time they step on the farm, is doomed, and as the end plays out, the reader shall see the weight of John Brown's actions.    Annie outlines the details of the days, but in the beginning of each chapter is John Brown's vivid history.  Along with being the watchdog, Annie must deal with their neighbor Mrs. Huffmaster, who believes in the supernatural.  The old lady forms a strange bond with Annie, who basically lives a lie at the farm.  Annie confides to Mrs. Huffmaster about the guilt of her dead sister, and near the end, Mrs. Huffmaster makes a chilling prediction about Annie Brown, one that eventually rings true in history.    Once again, action-wise, not too much happens.  The actual raid occurs in the end of the book and is described in detail, but Annie has left the farm by then.  Throughout the book, Annie struggles emotionally with her father; one minute, she loves him, the next minute, she is \\"wondering how to throw him off the porch\\" while having fond memories living with the men on the farm.  Eventually, father and daughter come to parting terms although Annie knows in her heart that he never truly forgives her.  More than just a diary, Mine Eyes Have Seen narrates Annie's ordeal with Harpers Ferry and also, the story of John Brown.	2004-10-09
US	28679490	R2U2QF2S6Q87ZU	0698118413	37363988	I Am Mordred: A Tale of Camelot	Books	5	4	4	N	N	very good	I read Morgan le Fay first, and although it was good, one must know that I am inclined to like the predecessors more than I do \\"sequels,\\" so I had to pick up I am Mordred. I am so glad I did because I think it is even better than Morgan le Fay, although I do recommend both books. <br /> <br />Cursed from the day he was born, Mordred must live with his awful fate that he will, one day, be the one who kills King Arthur of Camelot. Mordred is the bastard son of Arthur and his half-sister, Morgause--the evil product of incest. To try to avoid fate, King Arthur tries to kill Mordred, along with hundreds of baby boys, but Mordred, of course, survives. Mordred survies to live with a fishermen family before one day moving to live with his \\"mother\\" Queen Morgause of Lothian. There, he is raised as one of her sons, and when he turns fifteen, he is sent to King Arthur, as all young lads are. He learns more about his horrible fate, and although he hates his father for trying to murder him, he cannot help but feel for this noble man the king, and struggling between his soul and fate, Mordred tries to save King Arthur and himself. Mordred is so much more well-rounded, and he's a character that readers can empathize with.  Readers will read as Mordred struggles with his inner \\"demon\\" so to speak and his loving, tender side. The Lady of the Lake, Merlin, and Morgan le Fay are only a few of the characters that come alive in this portrayal of Mordred, and they play very important roles in Mordred's story. It is lyrically written, one of the better Camelot books I have read. It is a little short, but still a worthwhile read! <br />	2004-09-12
US	28679490	R36UVXGPUHE4QJ	0698119746	840582136	I Am Morgan le Fay	Books	4	4	4	N	N	quite powerful	I am Morgan le Fay is about Morgan, the bewitching daughter of Igraine, who will be the one who brings about King Arthur of Camelot's downfall.  Morgan le Fay means Morgan the Fate, and she learns about how one cannot change fate, except bring the ultimate result about in a different manner.  The impetuous Morgan is bewitching with one purple eye and one green eye and raven dark hair.  Morgan finds a mystical stone called a milpreve, and from that day, her life is never the same.  Her father, the Duke of Cornwall, is killed in order for Uther Pendgraon to wed the beautiful Igraine.  Igraine bears a son, the future King Arthur, by Uther.  When Uther is killed, the throne for succession is empty, and wars erupt.  For the safety of Morgan and her sister Morgause, they flee with their mysterious Nurse, actually a white witch named Ongwynn, to \\"Caer Ongwynn\\" far from their home of Caer Tintagel.  There, they live with her for some time, and it is there that Morgan first \\"awakens\\" her innate fay powers.  When Morgan is fifteen, she is summoned by mysterious forces to go to the enchanted place known as Avalon.  There at Avalon, there are many fays, or beings who were once gods, and her mother, Igraine, sitting day in and day out calling for her son, Arthur.  In the rest of the book, Morgan grows stronger in her fay/\\"sorcery\\" powers while she also falls deeply in love.  She also tries to deny fate, but she learns painfully and tragically that it cannot be done. \\"If I had my way, fate be damned.\\" <br /> <br />This story is quite lyrical.  Powerful imagery is prominent throughout the book.  Morgan, telling the story in first person, reveals all of her deepest thoughts, her temper, and her vain attempts to control her own fate and others' fates.  Morgan falls victim to love, and the exchanges between her and her beloved are tender and sweet, but she learns in the last part of the book that 1) men cannot be prisoners of love forever and 2) one cannot deny his/her ultimate fate.Although gripping, I must note the outcome is a little abrupt and quick.  Everything is building up beautifully, then BAM, it is over in two paragraphs.  I am still left a little shocked at the abruptness, but overall, I am Morgan le Fay is a wonderful read, a nice break from all the attention King Arthur and Guenevere receive in literature.  Now I appreciate this character of Morgan, no matter how tragic she turns out to be.	2004-09-02
US	28679490	R2JEKQ54EMEQHH	0140390243	427012340	The Last of the Mohicans (Leatherstocking Tale)	Books	4	5	7	N	N	The Last of the Mohicans	The Last of the Mohicans takes place during the French and Indian War, and it covers the fall of Ft. William Henry in 1757 to the French.  In the vast woods travel Chingachgook, his son Uncas, and Hawkeye, a white man who is more comfortable with Indians.  Chingachgook and Uncas are the last of the Mohicans, an Indian tribe.  Although Hawkeye's niche is clearly with the Mohicans, he constantly asserts throughout the book that he is white and does not have Indian blood.    One day, this group meets with travelers heading to the fort.  In this group are Cora and Alice Munro, Major Duncan Heyward, their Indian guide Magua, and later a minstrel named David Gamut.  The girls want to meet with their father, British Colonel Munro at the fort.  Magua has deliberately led them astray, but when confronted, he escapes.  Magua is a Huron whose loyalities lie with the French, and he harbors deep resentment to Colonel Munro.  The group arrives at the fort, but the fort falls to the French.  The French and British have terms of peace, but the Indian allies of the French do not heed these terms, causing much bloodshed.  Alice, Cora, and Gamut are captured, and the rest of the book covers the wild \\"rescue\\" of these three. Action and adventure depict the wild frontier, and there are also hints of love.  Heyward and Alice are kind but \\"delicate\\" while Uncas and Cora are bold and courageous.    Great book.  The plot moves quickly, although sometimes it is a little stagnant.  However, the need to know what happens next drives the reader to continue reading.  In addition, Cooper does a good job describing each character.  One can imagine courageous Hawkeye standing there on the hills, a white man in deerskin, with his rifle, or the laconic but admirable Uncas emanating with courage and skill.  Cooper describes the setting well--the wild frontier, complete with the sound effects of nature.  The Indian skirmishes are described graphically, which is all the better for forming mental images.Although this book is wonderful, I do have some complaints.  In the beginning, there are long footnotes, and they distracted me.  Also, there is some conversation in French but no translation! As one person pointed out, yes, a lot of characters have more than one name in the book.  For example, Major Heyward is called Heyward, Duncan (his first name), the major, etc... It is not bad for Heyward, but for others, it can get a little confusing, especially in dialogue, if there are just titles (ie: \\"the Indian\\", \\"the latter,\\" \\"the scout\\").  Also, there are tons of Indian tribes mentioned--Mohawk, Delawares, Huron, Mingo, Yengeese, Maquas--some of them are one in the same, but especially in the earlier parts, it can be hard to discern who's who.    I am glad I picked up The Last of the Mohicans.  I am impressed by the first great American novelist, James Fenimore Cooper, and he deserves that title 100%.	2004-09-01
US	28679490	R3LBUNTHS715H8	0385336810	693014192	Can You Keep a Secret?	Books	4	3	3	N	N	very cute, but the ending was a little weak	I have heard much about Confessions of a Shopaholic, but Can You Keep a Secret? is the first book from Sophie Kinsella that I have read, and I must say I am not disappointed.  From page one, I was smiling and laughing throughout the book, which is rare for me.  Emma Corrigan, the narrator, is very blunt when it comes to sharing her thoughts with the reader, which makes the book hilarious.  However, to her friends, colleagues, and family, she is oftentimes not truthful, therefore she has lots of secrets.  She works for Panther Cola, and on the flight back from a (miserably failed) business trip, the plane experiences heavy turbluence.  Emma is so scared that the plane will crash that she blabs all of her secrets to the American stranger sitting next to her.  I found this a little unbelievable, but it was cute, nevertheless.  The reader may connect with some of her secrets, such as Emma lying about her weight to her boyfriend.  When the plane lands safely, she bids him farewell, thinking she will never see him again.  At home, she has to worry about her job, her family, her boyfriend, and her flatmates. <br /> <br />Instinct (and the book jacket description) tells the reader that Emma will definitely see this stranger again, and it turns out he is Jack Harper, the CEO of Panther Cola.  Even though Emma has the \\"perfect boyfriend,\\" she cannot help but fall in love with Jack even though this guy knows all of her secrets.  Jack is a private man who is very taciturn, so the relationship is, for the most part, one-sided.  It is still cute to see them together through their ups and downs in the book, and once again, I must say Emma's thoughts are absolutely hilarious.  She is not 100% honest, so when she says one thing to a person, she lets the reader know what she really is thinking. <br /> <br />A very cute book, one a reader cannot help falling in love with, but the ending is a bit abrupt and could have been written better.  Everything is going along just fine, but something happens.  Then in a couple of pages, it is suddenly resolved.  When the book starts off strong(ly), I believe the book should end strong(ly), so hence the four stars. Regardless, everything else makes it a good \\"chick lit\\" read!	2004-08-29
US	28679490	R1LNBKLVHAJBA7	0743253973	586746552	A Separate Peace	Books	5	10	13	N	N	heartwrenching	A Separate Peace tells the story of Gene Forrester and Phineas, two senior boys at Devon, an all-boys school in New England. It takes place in the years summer 1942 to 1943, the early years of World War II. Devon is a nice school, the landscape of New England is absolutely beautiful, the boys, being seniors, are all in good spirits.<br /><br />Phineas is Gene's best friend, and Gene admires him so much. Phineas, known as Finny, is good looking, athletic (although Gene says he himself is quite an athlete, too), honest, and open. He charms everyone, teacher and friend alike. However, feelings of envy are stirred in Gene, even though at first he just dismisses them as perfectly normal. Then, either by a sudden impulse or losing of reason, Gene severely causes an injury to Finny (although Finny does not know this at first), and the two are never quite the same again. The rest of the book covers everything at Devon with the rest of the boys to the war actually taking over Devon in 1943.<br /><br />Finny is very carefree, and he has his own philosophies that just seem right to Gene. For instance, World War II is ongoing, but Finny believes the war is just a big scam. There is no such thing as war, in his mind.  He also believes everyone wins at sports, so there are never any losers. In his own escape from reality, Finny's world, his \\"separate peace\\" shared with his best friend Gene, is perfect. This is what brings about the tragedy of the book, and that is where John Knowles does a beautiful job. The friendship between Finny and Gene is absolutely beautiful, if it were not for Gene's tiny flaw of jealousy that causes Finny's downfall. I cry to see such friendships, lovely but rare, being torn apart by envy and hate.<br /><br />A Separate Peace shows how war can destroy relationships and even lives, including one of Gene's friends who slips into insanity after enlisting in the war. Truly heartwrenching, and the ending is so abrupt (and shocking!), one will be left wide-eyed after the book is long closed.	2004-08-25
US	28679490	R1VU4D5BWLPYRV	0804106304	31287929	The Joy Luck Club	Books	4	2	4	N	N	The Joy Luck Club	It is San Fransisco, 1949. In The Joy Luck Club, there are four Chinese women who get together, eat, tell stories, and play mah-jong. One of the members, Suyuan Woo, has died, and her daughter, Jing-mei Woo, is asked to take her mother's place. The club knows that when Suyuan lived in China, she had twin daughters, but they were left behind. The day when Jing-mei takes her mother's place, an auntie (family friend) reveals that Suyuan received a letter from her lost twin daughters just before she died. The auntie gives Jing-mei money so she can go to China to see her sisters. She is told to tell the sisters their mother's life story, but Jing-mei says she never really knew her. This starts the beginning of many heartwarming, heartwrenching stories of the Joy Luck Club and their American-born daughters. <br /> <br />The novel breaks down into chapters, each narrated by a mother or a daughter. There is a chart in the beginning saying who is who. The mothers--An-mei Hsu, Lindo Jong, Ying-ying St. Clair--all grew up in China, and there, they went through trials and tribulations that shaped their lives.  Now, it is their turn to tell their stories to their daughters.  The stories have a variety of elements; for example, the status of women in China, Chinese superstition and folk lore, Chinese marriages, etc.  Times were tough in the beginning of the 20th century in China, and Amy Tan does a nice job of illustrating that. Tan often inserts Chinese words in \\"pinyin\\" and that adds more Chinese flavor to this book.  The stories stir feelings of nostalgia in me, even though neither my parents nor I ever experienced events like those. Maybe my Chinese blood is calling to me. <br /> <br />Being Chinese-American myself, I can relate a lot to the Joy Luck Club's American-born daughters. They're Chinese on the outside, but American on the inside, especially the daughter who is half-Chinese. The daughers all have frustrations with their \\"backwards\\" Chinese mothers. Their mothers compare their daughters to each other.  They generally do not know much about their Chinese heritages.  The daughters' stories talk about growing up and learning life's lessons from their mothers, no matter how foreign and backwards they are.  Even in adulthood, the mothers still influence their daughters' lives.  I think Amy Tan is trying to assert that (Chinese mothers) know best, and although I hate to admit it (like the daughters), it is true... <br /> <br />One thing that strikes me odd is the impression that interracial marriages are not favorable. Lena St. Clair and Rose Hsu (Jordan) both marry Caucasians, and their marriages are not very happy. An Mei Hsu, Rose's mother, was never in favor of the marriage, but in the end, she helps Rose to stand up for herself in the failing marriage. Waverly Jong's outcome with her white fiance is more uplifting, but it is not enough to cease this nagging I have with the above mentioned. Maybe it is just me... <br /> <br />The Joy Luck Club is an excellent book, and I am surprised to read that this was Amy Tan's first book. If all first books were like this...wonderful.	2004-08-24
US	28679490	R23FRBYKJ0JR8Y	0684801523	193175702	The Great Gatsby	Books	5	2	2	N	N	great classic	Set in the 1920s, The Great Gatsby traces the tragic James Gatz (Jay Gatsby) and his yearn for his past love, the beautiful Daisy Buchanan. The novel is narrated by Gatsby's next door neighbor, Nick Carraway, as he views everything that happens to Gatsby.  The setting takes place in Long Island, New York, in two places: \\"West Egg\\" and \\"East Egg\\" separated by a bay. Gatsby is this filthily rich guy who lives in a gigantic mansion next to Nick in West Egg.  Rumors about what kind of a man he really is swirl about Gatsby, but Nick keeps his own opinion until he actually meets the great Gatsby himself. Gatsby holds extravagant parties in his mansion, and people from all over the Island come, even uninvited. In reality, he has moved to West Egg and holds these big parties hoping to attract the attention of the woman he once loved during World War I, Daisy Buchanan, who is now living across the bay in East Egg. Unfortunately, Daisy married during the war, so she is technically unavailable.  Gatsby, who values the past and money above anything else, does all he can to win her back, but alas, Gatsby is not called a tragic character for nothing.<br /><br />Beautifully written, mostly in prose, The Great Gatsby makes a reader step back and examine his own values. Even though Gatsby has all these bad characteristics attributed to him, the reader cannot help but empathize with him and his romantic idealization of the past. We all do that sometimes--live in the past and forget about the present.<br /><br />F. Scott Fitzgerald, when he died in 1940, thought he died as a failure in life. Well, with this classic The Great Gatsby that I have just now read, I beg to differ, Mr. Fitzgerald.	2004-08-22
US	28679490	RNPC2X3BDJJQT	0152386319	31348023	Indio (Great Episodes)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	bittersweet	Sherry Garland's Indio tells the story of an Indian girl named Ipa-tah-chi and what eventually happens to the native indios in Southwest US and Mexico. One day, when she is fourteen, an Apache raid left her grandmother dead and her older brother taken hostage. Three years later, a group of white men with hair on their faces and strange animals arrive in the village, and they call themselves espanoles. Ipa meets a kindhearted espanol named Rodrigo, and even after the band of espanoles leave, she still remember's Rodrigo's kindness. Although they do not know each other's languages, Ipa and Rodrigo try to teach each other some words of their languages, and the exchanges are quite cute. <br /> <br />Ipa receives a marriage offer from Coyomo, a handsome indio from another village, but on the day of their wedding, another group of espanoles come and destroys their happiness forever. The espanoles kill some indios and take the rest as slaves, including Ipa-tah-chi, her younger brother Kadoh, and her proud, beautiful cousin Xucate. They are all taken to a silver mine with a Christian missionary nearby, and the indios' lives are never the same again. <br /> <br />Garland has done a good job, capturing the anguish the native indios felt in their last hundred years. The character that captures it the most is Xucate, with her bitter hatred of the Spanish.  There are only fleeting moments of happiness, ie: when Ipa spends time with the kind Rodrigo. Later, Xucate is raped, symbolizing the extinction of the indios and the painful birth of the Mexican race (Indian/Spanish mix).  Although Ipa survives and will have a brighter future in Mexico, her \\"happy\\" ending is bittersweet. <br />	2004-08-21
US	28679490	R2QYH76GUWOHD7	0345433491	562456905	Hanna's Daughters: A Novel (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Anna, Hanna and Johanna	Hanna's Daughters was originally published Anna, Hanna and Johanna in Scandinavia. Grandmother, mother, daughter - all three of the women are all of the above, but here, Hanna is the grandmother, Johanna is the mother, and Anna is the daughter. Each woman has her own poignant story in this riveting novel of three generations. <br /> <br />In 1986, ailing Johanna is suffering from Alzheimer's. Her daughter, Anna, watches over her. She reflects on her grandmother, Hanna Bromam. <br /> <br />Hanna's story is filled with perserverance. When she is twelve, she is sent to a farm ruled by a harsh woman. The years at farm are not pleasant, for she is raped and gives birth to a son at thirteen. To save her family name, she is married to a middle-aged miller named John Bromam. They work and raise a family. Relatives are featured in Hanna's life, including her beautiful sister Astrid who lives in Norway. At the turn of the century (1902), Johanna is born. <br /> <br />The book was translated from Swedish, and many sentences in Hanna's story sound stiff and grammatically incorrect. Well, nothing can be translated 100% correctly. Although it can be slow, the dialect in the beginning adds a little flair to the book. <br /> <br />Back in 1986, Anna is going through a difficult time in life because of her husband's infidelity, ironically named Rickard. Johanna's story, 1902-1986, is in first person. I think it is the best section because she gives insight on her thoughts. It talks about her relationship with her mother, her political beliefs, the \\"Ice Queen,\\" and WWII. Her life is not without tragedy either. This section allows readers to commiserate with Johanna. <br /> <br />The ending... I think the ending could have been written better because I feel the situation between Rickard and Anna is never fully resolved. Maybe that is something left up to the reader. <br /> <br />Hanna's Daughters was very riveting. Fredriksson moves the book along nicely, and I enjoyed the point of view change in Johanna's story. This is a nice U.S. debut for Fredriksson, and I am looking forward to more moving novels.	2004-08-21
US	28679490	R2V1EMTMBSMEBH	1558500189	328891719	The Words You Should Know	Books	4	28	30	N	N	a handy tool for students	I am a student in high school, and I have found this book to be quite handy in increasing one's vocabulary, especially for standardized tests such as the SAT. The words, in alphabetical order, are typed in big font with the prounciation key, part of speech, definition, and sample sentence below the word. There are quite a few words in this book (1,200) from a-z, so this should satiate the vocab-hungry.    What I like in this book are the simple, concise definitions of the words and following it, a slight elaboration on the definition. As I flipped through the book, I realized these words make good \\"word of the day\\" if one likes that kind of thing.  However, I must note that some the definitions are a little too concise (too brief), so I often have to rely on the example/elaboration and/or consult a real dictionary source for clarification.    The word difficulty range is nice, from somewhat simple words like \\"affect\\" and \\"effect\\" (do you know the difference?) from words that seem, to me, even archaic at times and not exactly words one would use in a conversation: \\"My boss is such a troglodyte!\\"    Anyway, I recommend this book for students who want to build their vocabulary or other vocab-hungry people. However, if one wants extreme detail, one might have to consult an additional source. I \\"prognosticate\\" that, if put to good use, this book can make one use complex words with great \\"aplomb!\\"	2004-08-20
US	28679490	R2Q0VNMTMNTKE6	0671619314	763833725	Seventeenth Summer	Books	3	4	12	N	N	I beg to differ	\\"Today this classic is enjoyed by many who think of it as the quintessential love story...\\" <br /> <br />This quote talks about Maureen Daly's 1942 Seventeenth Summer, and judging from that, I thought it would be a marvelous, riveting love story. Well, I beg to differ. The opening page starts off really well as the narrator, seventeen-year-old Angeline Morrow, talks about how she can't really explain her love for Jack Duluth, the eighteen year old boy she fell in love with that fateful summer (June to August). One day, Jack and Angie meet, and they start to talk. Along with Jack's friend, they go sailboating one evening, and that is the first time the two share hints of intimacy. Jack pours his heart out to Angie (on the first date!), and it is a serene scene. <br /> <br />From that sweet, tender moment, the book's storyline fades along with any interest that I had for the book. The novel continues with a little side-story about Angie's older sister Lorraine who dates a newcomer city-slick boy who never really returns her feelings of affection. In Angie's tale, she just continues to go out on dates with Jack and his friends, and his friends even drink and smoke (things that Angie doesn't do).  The dialogue is flat and uninteresting, and if Jack says, \\"Gee, Angie\\" one more time, I will go insane.  His friends aren't that interesting and developed, considering they are (I should say \\"were\\" because they have all graduated) the \\"popular\\" group in high school. <br /> <br />Jack and Angie do not share many intimate, tender moments, which is a disappointment. One would think they would do more than just talk about the same things over and over again and hold hands every now and then. Sure, Angie writes about her feelings for Jack, but they don't really say or do much to provoke a reader's interest in the story. The ending is supposed to be sad and poignant, and one moment -did- make me catch my breath, but other than that, it did not do much to stir my emotions. <br /> <br/>One thing that I do find worthy is the non-dating parts when Angie describes about her feelings/surroundings. Daly does a nice job here because it sounds a little like descriptive diary \\"entries.\\" <br /> <br />I know this book was written in the 1940s--many older people have grown up with this, and times have changed, but I still think this book is a little dull compared to the works of today. Maybe when I'm older and I have a daughter of my own, I'll be able to appreciate this. But as for now, I am returning this book to the library.	2004-08-19
US	28679490	R260TH86MSL78S	0590877518	558408397	Land of Loss (Everworld #2)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	interesting	\\"But 'odd' was a synonym for 'normal' in Everworld.\\" - page 116<br />After finishing this book, this is what I have decided about the Everworld series so far: Interesting. Whenever you throw in multiple gods of the old, the story is bound to be interesting...<br />This book comes in where the first left off. Nice transition, for I read this one immediately after finishing the first (Search for Senna) - it throws you in the heated battle of the Aztecs vs. the Vikings in the perspective of cynical and sarcastic Christopher, the guy we all like to hate in real life (can we say, jerk?). The four characters (David, Jalil, April, and Christopher) go through many trials and tribulations, including getting captured by the Aztecs, trudging up the blood-caked pyramid of Huitzilopoctli (the Aztec god of war), meeting strange people called the Coo-Hatch, and much more. At the same time, when they fall asleep, they are back in the real world, and they struggle to cope with their duo, bizarre lives.<br />K.A. Applegate does a nice job of creating pageturners. Throughout the book, the four characters are required to be on their toes at all times (think fast); otherwise, it could cost them their very lives. Nothing matters anymore, only survival (how to get out of this bizarre world alive). And for David, the survival of Senna, the mysterious so-called \\"witch\\" as well (although everyone else doesn't think so).<br />Christopher's snide remarks got a little repetitive, and although that is his nature, a little less could have relieved my slight annoyance (thus the minus one star :/). David doesn't have much of a personality, so I was a little disappointed... April and Jalil have a lot more to them than meets the eye, so I'll be looking forward to reading their sides of the story.	2004-07-09
US	28679490	R1NUTP5VSC4968	0590877437	28275338	Search for Senna (Everworld #1)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	good, but a little short	I grew up reading K.A. Applegate's popular Animorphs series, and I found her to be a delightful storyteller. In the first of her series, Everworld, she continues to enrapture audiences with her work (in this case, me).<br />I enjoyed this book, although I do think it's a little short, for I finished it within an hour. However, this (and most of her works) is meant for ages 12 and up (the younger people), so that is understandable.<br />I won't reiterate the plot again because many people have already done so, but I must say it is nicely done. In Everworld, she creates a descriptive new world filled with powerful gods of of the old. When physically describing the gods and their animal friends, I could close my eyes and imagine their terrible yet awe-inspiring appearances; ie: \\"that snake the size of a derailed Amtrak.\\" (That's a big snake.) K.A. Applegate's imagination never ceases to amazes me.<br />Worthy of praise is the dialogue in this novel. Very witty. They act like any other high school junior you find in real life. The four characters all have their traits, and they are made evident by mostly dialogue alone. For example, through her actions and what she says, you find the girl, April, is a talented actress and singer.<br />One thing I did not like was the abruptness in the endings of some chapters (more in the beginning of the novel). I like a little more description/words, although short ending lines like \\"And then she disappeared\\" entice the reader to find out what happens nexts (the element of suspense). I guess it depends on what kind of style you like.<br />I recommend this book for those who like K.A. Applegate, like light reading, like science fiction, like fantasy, or all of the above.	2004-07-09
US	28679490	R345X6BFC7M7O5	0761544887	777433299	Fire Emblem (Prima's Official Strategy Guide)	Books	3	18	24	N	N	I like... the artwork.	I was flipping through my friend's Fire Emblem Strategy Guide, and I almost died laughing wondering why he even bought the book. I don't think it was worth $14.99 (or $10.49 for Amazon :P), except for the artwork.<br />The strategies weren't that fabulous. Actually, a player could have done better on his (or her, in my case) own without the book. The game is not that hard, although at times rather long and frustrating (but beatable). However, I did have trouble in one stage, and I read the guide, and I thought it wasn't worth it. Well, the guide did point out some hard-to-find secrets, though, but that's about it.<br />Side note: There are some grammatical errors and whatnot - in books like these, there shouldn't be errors like that. Where was its editor?<br />One thing I do like is the official (anime) artwork. It's beautifully drawn, and there's lots of it, too. A decent buy for people who like anime gaming artwork.<br />If you're looking for help on the game, I suggest you look somewhere else. Anime artwork, you might want to consider this.	2004-07-09
US	28679490	RYM6URKZSTGN0	0684800713	781452863	The Sun Also Rises	Books	5	3	3	N	N	brilliant	I read this book for required summer reading, and after a somewhat difficult-to-follow book, this novel was a breath of fresh air. It said this novel was famous because of Hemingway's prose, and I agree. He does not dress up this story with unfathomable metaphors and whatnot. He tells it like it is, which is what I like. This is the &quot;Lost Generation&quot; - the people right after World War I, and everyone's pretty much...lost. Our characters capture that theme very well, with their decadence (heavy drinking) and meandering. The characters Lady Brett Ashley and Jake Barnes are memorable. They both love each other very much, but Jake is impotent due to a war injury, and this prevents Brett from committing to him. This is a poignant novel, and sometimes, I could relate to their issues (minus the heavy drinking!) very well.	2004-06-21
US	28679490	R3NWI1UE35FPCJ	1400047862	181785330	Isolde, Queen of the Western Isle (Tristan and Isolde Novels, Book 1)	Books	3	2	3	N	N	beautiful cover, yet...	I admit this: I often judge books by their covers. Books that are aesthetically pleasing are the ones I usually look at first. With its beautiful cover and its intriguing description -I'm a medieval/King Arthur/romance fan - I picked up Isolde.<br />Good, but I do have some comments:<br />-Mark, although he was an oaf of man, was a little *too* simplified (\\"like...OMG\\" is basically what he does throughout the entire book -_-), and even in today's world have I yet to find men like him.<br />-The Queen was, like some other reviewers have said, 2D - to me, she's a woman who was... for lack of better word, horny all the time...<br />-On the same point...A lot of the other characters besides Tristan and Isolde were very, very flat. Mention, say, Elva, and I'll answer with, \\"Who?\\" Save T and I, the characters weren't memorable.<br />-The side story with Sweyn and his daughter was just stupid - fumes from a fortune teller's tent and king arthur? ... I was skeptical from the start. This part didn't really add anything to the novel.<br />-\\"Goddess, mother\\" was a little frequent...<br />Powerful ending, though. Almost left me breathless. The interactions between Tristan and Isolde are beautiful and poignant. Everything else, however, is a tad bit lacking. It's still a decent book, and I do recommend it because it is a beautiful, haunting legend worth reading.	2004-06-18
US	28679490	R1DDDQV6P1H92H	0345342968	383457570	Fahrenheit 451	Books	4	1	1	N	N	riveting...	It's true: A lot of what Bradbury predicted for us when he wrote his classic Fahrenheit 451 about 50 years ago is becoming more and more eminent in today's world. Scary, yes?<br />Books are on the decline, especially in our younger generation. Although a total ban/burning seems a little farfetched and unlikely, it is possible the public will lose interest in books year after year until there are no books being bought anymore... a sad day that will be.<br />People are relying more and more on TV and other forms of &quot;entertainment&quot; ... some are filling, but most are rather empty. Are we destined to become mindless and frivolous like Mildred and Co.? If we keep on going at this rate, yes.<br />&quot;Cliffsnotes&quot;, although they seem innocent enough, are on the rise. You can see cliffsnotes *replace* the good ol' classics in the classroom today, unfortunately (&quot;learn this classic in five minutes!!&quot;) A lot of today's kids are missing out on the great classics by reading only the material that leaves no room for their own personal interpretation...<br />Children are killing each other, as Clarisse points out (&quot;I'm afraid of children my own age. They kill each other.&quot;) We have our fair share of adolescents murdering their own peers in the . How would Bradbury have known?<br />Seashell radios - aka cd players, perhaps? People don't listen anymore because they're immersed in their own world of music. Not a good thing.<br />All these (and more) got my eyebrow raising. Books that open your eyes and mind are rare gems. Although Bradbury's style might take some time to get used to - it took me a ton of rereadings and highlights to understand - this is very riveting, and I recommend picking up this book. Like my teacher said, your mind will not think the same after reading this classic.	2004-06-18
US	28679490	RC4LGVHSE36SH	0679601686	503057596	Pride and Prejudice (Modern Library)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A delightful read!	I wanted to read Jane Austen's Pride and Predjudice after a friend told me the book was so good. I bought a copy, and I can't say I was disappointed; this is a masterpiece. Austen did a really nice job talking about issues that you and I have trouble with--love, relationships, reputation, pride and prejudice of course--just to name a few.  She did well tying in the love story with Elizabeth Bennet and Fitzwilliam Darcy with all the other characters--even the most frivolous of characters had their part in the story.<br />I really liked the fact that Austen developed the characters/story line between Elizabeth Bennet and Fitzwililam Darcy well. It is evident that the two were made for each other, but Elizabeth, after first bad impressions concerning Darcy and stories by Wickham, never noticed the true character of Darcy because of her predjudice (blindness) towards him. Darcy was just too full of himself until rejection by Elizabeth brings him back to his senses--not so proud now, are we? The roads to the happy ending were often bumpy, but Elizabeth and Darcy (along w/Bingley and Jane) arrived safe and sound, concluding the novel with a sweet ending. At times, the passages are really long/tedious, but in the end, it's worth it.	2004-01-16
US	28679490	RA6KO8WDUF2FP	0684868911	676150396	The Carousel: A Novel	Books	3	9	9	N	N	good	Though I must admit the story was poignant and I agree that life is like a carousel at times, it left me unsatisfied... This is the first book I've read of Evans, and he's a good author, but at times I was left hanging and wondering...it felt like a soap opera episode... It's a decent read, though, and the publishing company did a really good job designing his books, so don't be surpised if you're drawn to this book.	2003-12-03
US	28679490	RGHLCGYFSY0HX	0553212583	363093333	Wuthering Heights (Bantam Classics)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	poignant, good	My friend complained bitterly to me how horrible this book was, and curious, I decided to pick up a copy. I was impressed by Bronte's work.. I like how she illustrates the passion and love evident between Cathy and Heathcliff... it is one of the most moving storylines I've read. It's a good classic, and although it's tragic, there are glimpses of happiness here and there in the novel, and the novel ends on a peaceful, concluding note.<br />However, the Yorkshire accent nearly killed me... it was hard to read--I skipped the Yorkshire dialogues almost completely. Also I felt like strangling Cathy and Heathcliff... it was all perfect, but then she had to go do her thing... Yes, I know this was the whole point of the story--conflict--but still, it could have been happier. The novel was very touching and I was left speechless as I quietly closed the book, because Ms. Bronte knows how to describe two people in fervent (though at times.. rampant?) love and how it will endure the tests of time.	2003-12-03
US	28679490	RRO7I7RXHPBB3	0453006078	134865615	The Road to Avalon	Books	5	2	3	N	N	best of the best	I noticed this book in my school library, and I was itching for some King Arthur stories, so I picked it up... and I was blown away.  Joan Wolf certainly knows how to weave her tales seamlessly... it's the best King Arthur book I've ever read. The novel is full of adventure, chivalry, passion, and more... all the components of a really good novel.  I've read it twice, and I'll definitely re-read it again sometime.	2003-12-03
US	28679490	R2NV6NQ0TMTHAN	0312187475	666745102	Mistress Anne	Books	3	7	10	N	N	decent	I was doing a report on the life of Anne Boleyn, and this was the only book in my school library that was dedicated solely to Anne... I read it and I was unsatisfied :| It was really vague, and the book only brushed the surface of the iceberg. I had to refer to various sources to find more information... this gave too little. I would recommend Antonia Fraser's Six Wives of Henry the VIII instead...	2003-11-11
US	28679490	R3GLOQ5ZOXY9GD	0786817089	857095333	The Arctic Incident (Artemis Fowl, Book 2)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Excellent read	This book, \\"so fresh and so clean\\", caught my eye at the school library. I had read the first Artemis Fowl book about a year or two ago, but I was left craving for more of the devious, delightful boy genius. I checked out the book, and I was not disappointed.<br />This picked up after the incident back in book 1 ... a lot of the same characters were there, with the reappearance of Mulch Diggums, who was \\"thought dead\\", and the wonderful Foaly (sarcastic technology-literate centaur) ... Artemis receives a file that looked like it was his missing father... so he decides to go out and rescue his father, who is held captive by the Russian Mafiya (but Artemis soon realizes he needs the help of fairies...)<br />Meanwhile, the fairies are experiencing all this mess with goblins and a hunger-power pixie... okay, anyway, not to give anything away, it was all the way suspenseful to the last page. I kept on wondering if Captain Holly Short was going to make it, if Artemis would be okay, etc. etc. Eoin Colfer did a supreme job here of weaving a tale. However, I thought very little of the book was dedicated to the actual rescuing of Artemis Fowl Sr., so I was a little disappointed in that aspect, but besides that, very good read...	2003-09-03
US	28679490	R21YB2KJN6U33X	0060294671	953660472	Princess in Love (The Princess Diaries, Vol. 3)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	That's so sweet	I've been a fan of The Princess Diaries ever since I saw the movie that came out way back when. Total chick flick, but it was cute. Just because one is a princess doesn't mean life is so much easier. It's not, according to Mia.<br />In this book, Mia finally has a boyfriend, but she is not happy with him... she still pines after her best friend's older brother. Not to give away anything of course, but this book was really cute. Cabot writes as if it really was her diary, so it seemed like I just opened up someone's diary and started reading. The usage of \\"!!!!!!\\" cracked me up a lot... however, the book was just a bit draggy ...but it's like a soap opera: it's worth watching (well, reading, in this case) to the grand finale. A[...]	2003-09-03
US	28679490	R1LTILL52HZ637	0786819146	442293804	The Eternity Code (Artemis Fowl, Book 3)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Not bad, but the first 2 were better...	I read the first Artemis Fowl book about one-two (?) years ago. I enjoyed it very much. I voraciously finished through the second book and moved on to the third book with the second book's events still fresh on my mind. Well, the third installment wasn't bad at all... but it could have been better. Nothing SUPER suspenseful (like the 2nd one - I was hanging off the edge, literally...), a little slow going, some of the stuff was corny, but it was still a good read. If you're a fan of Artemis Fowl, feel free to pick it up... but I liked the first two better. Anyway, if this is not the end of the AF books, then the epilogue was totally screaming SEQUEL... :) so I guess we can watch out for that.	2003-09-03
US	28679490	R1JZ95WT0L2SQZ	0440498058	598774312	A Wrinkle in Time (The Time Quartet)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	a great classic	I had to read this book in 7th grade, and I must say, I was not disappointed... L'Engle is a wonderful author... her style of writing is unique - this book is such a great classic! The characters in the story were well-rounded: Charles Wallace, Meg, Calvin, and the Mrs. W's... she described them well, so I could visualize the characters in my head as we read along. It set the stage for the remainder of the Time Quartet... one of the best series ever. Good read!	2003-07-20
