US	29136933	R3R6ZKWBOWP8OE	0684859726	840593809	Fatal Voyage : A Novel	Books	4	3	3	N	N	The fourth in the Tempe Brennan series, and one of the best!	It's October in Swain County, North Carolina, and Dr. Temperance Brennan has been called to a location high in the mountains where Air TransSouth Flight 228, a passenger jet headed for Washington, D.C., has just crashed, killing all 88 passengers and crew members on board.  When Tempe arrives, she is faced with carnage the likes of which she has rarely seen.  Spare body parts fly high in trees bright with autumn leaves, and an abandoned and scorched Raggedy Ann doll almost brings the hard-headed anthropologist to tears.  Even worse is the knowledge of who was on board the plane:  college co-ed soccer players, on their way to a tournament in the U.S. capital; and Detective Jean Bertrand, the partner of Tempe's sometime love interest Andrew Ryan, who was escorting a prisoner back to Canada.  But strangest of all is the foot Tempe finds in the jaws of a coyote deep in the North Carolina woods.  Although her first assumption is that it belonged to one of the passengers on the plane, closer examination reveals that the foot is in a late stage of decomposition that doesn't match with the recent plane crash.  And the pathology of the foot proves her right:  It doesn't belong to any of the victims on board Flight 228.  But before Tempe can continue her investigation in a professional capacity, she is abruptly yanked from the investigation and cited with an ethical violation. <br /> <br />But this is the fourth entry in Reichs' series, and faithful readers know that our stubborn heroine isn't going to be stopped by something as puny as a direct order, right?  And FATAL VOYAGE offers no surprises, as far as Tempe's character is concerned.  With the help of Andrew Ryan, no-nonsense Swain County sheriff Lucy Crowe, and one irresistible chow named Boyd, Tempe begins doing her own research. She ultimately uncovers the origins of the foot--and the truth is more disturbing and bizarre than you could imagine. <br /> <br />I have to admit:  I wasn't wild about DEADLY DECISIONS, the third offering in the Tempe Brennan series.  It was a bit boring, actually, and disappointing compared to the previous two novels.  But in FATAL VOYAGE, Reichs is once again in top form.  The plot of the novel is smart and tight, the characters well-fleshed-out and intriguing.  And as always when you're reading a Reichs novel, in FATAL VOYAGE, you're going to learn something you didn't know (this time, it's the processes that are involved with airline crash recovery and how soil can tell investigators the time since a victim's death, and about old elitist clubs from England to the United States).  Reichs is one of the few forensic thriller authors I read who can effectively combine cold scientific rhetoric with warm, thoughtful characters.  <br /> <br />Reichs has taken command of her heroine in this fourth novel; the character of Tempe Brennan evolves gently and deftly.  She is a forensic anthropologist, yes--but more than that, she is a woman, one who desires both a lover's touch and a cuddle with her cat, who exercises religiously but doesn't hesitate to indulge in unhealthy snacks, who takes long baths and listens to jazz.  In FATAL VOYAGE, Tempe's relationship with ex-husband Pete is explored in more depth, and Reichs balances Tempe's feelings for her ex nicely with her growing interest in Detective Andrew Ryan.  Adding to Tempe's likeability even more in this fourth novel is her strength of character in the face of professional adversity and her overwhelming commitment to the bones who were once people with flesh and blood:  \\"The dead will remain dead, whatever my efforts, but there have to be answers and accountability.  We cannot live in a world that accepts the destruction of life with no explanations and no consequences.\\"  Her professional and personal life are balanced nicely in this one. <br /> <br />One of the best things about FATAL VOYAGE is that Reichs doesn't try to do too much.  In DEATH DU JOUR and DEADLY DECISIONS, she made sure that all of Tempe's cases, from Quebec to Charlotte, connected to each other in some way.  In this fourth book, the action is in North Carolina, and there are no unbelievable coincidences to cloud the reading of the novel.  FATAL VOYAGE is, on all levels, a success--I'm happy to see Reichs sticking with a formula that works and continuing to evolve her characters in realistic ways.  The critics are right that Reichs is similar to Patricia Cornwall--but she's also much, much better. <br />	2005-10-13
US	29136933	R1OJJHO7DLCN1A	0316011770	454028739	The Historian	Books	3	14	17	N	N	Initially captivating, but definitely not for everyone...	When I began THE HISTORIAN, Elizabeth Kostova's epic take on the legend of Dracula, I did so with trepidation.  When I first heard about the novel, I couldn't wait to read it--I harbor a morbid fascination for anything macabre, especially if it is rooted in reality--but by the time I got my hands on it, I had read many negative reviews here on Amazon, heralding the novel as nothing more than a dry, academic travelogue of Eastern Europe and as an overall disappointing first offering by Kostova.  But when I began the novel, I at first believed my reservations were unwarranted; I found myself immediately sucked into Kostova's thrilling world of timeless legends and ancient manuscripts, of castle ruins and hidden sarcophagi. But it wasn't long before I began to understand the points of view of some of the other reviewers here: I ultimately enjoyed the book (though I was dissatisfied with certain elements--more on that later), but THE HISTORIAN is definitely not a novel everyone will like. <br /> <br />Kostova's debut novel begins in Amsterdam in 1972, and picks up the narrative of a sixteen-year-old girl who lives in the city with her father.  While alone in their home one day, she comes across a strange book on one of the shelves in her father's library: Bound in ancient leather, the book is empty except for a mysterious woodcut of a dragon across the center pages, accompanied by one chilling word: DRAKULYA.  With the book, she finds a packet of letters, all addressed to \\"My dear and unfortunate successor.\\" When she confronts her father, Paul reluctantly begins telling her an unsettling tale: Twenty years earlier, Paul's college mentor, Bartholomew Rossi, disappears from his office after telling Paul about his research involving Vlad Tepes--\\"The Impaler\\"--the cruel ruler of Wallachia in the fifteenth century and the real-life Dracula.  This research, he tells Paul before his disappearance, led him to believe that Dracula is still alive.  After Rossi's disappearance, Paul and a young Romanian scholar with secrets of her own become involved in a frantic search to find the missing historian--and maybe the mythical vampire himself--before it's too late.  After telling his daughter all of this twenty years later, Paul himself disappears. <br /> <br />Kostova's narrative is three-fold.  We are treated to the daughter's narrative as she conducts her own secret research into the ancient legend of Dracula and searches for her missing father in 1972.  The other two sections of the narrative are told in an epistolary fashion: Paul's letters to his daughter, narrating his adventures while searching for Rossi in 1952; and the letters of Rossi himself, written to his \\"successor\\" as he conducts his own research in 1930.  This, in addition to numerous settings to keep straight and dense research, all adds up to an ambitious first novel for Kostova. <br /> <br />But perhaps a bit too ambitious?  Maybe I should start with what Kostova does well in THE HISTORIAN.  The first three hundred pages are good: heart-stoppingly good.  I found myself staying up late many nights to read \\"just one more chapter,\\" despite the fact that, in many instances, I was scared out of my wits to read on.  Part One of the novel is intense, pulse-pounding, fast-paced, intellectually thrilling--everything you would expect a novel about Dracula to be, especially if you've read Bram Stoker's version.  Kostova's descriptions of Europe, its famous landmarks and its topography, are beautifully written.  The epistolary style of narrative is engaging, although I do have my doubts about the remarkable depth, incredible length, and specific dialogue of the letters; they're not very realistic, as far as letters go. <br /> <br />It's in Parts Two and Three of the novel that Kostova's narrative descends into the purely intellectual and away from the thrilling.  While I wouldn't agree with the sentiment that reading her novel is like reading a travelogue of Eastern Europe, the historical detail does become overwhelming at points.  I certainly caught myself rereading the same paragraph three or four times in more than one case, wondering what bearing an extensive description of Istanbul's Topkapi Palace had on the outcome of the story.  Additionally, I found the lengthy fictional article contained in the pages, \\"The 'Chronicle' of Zacharias of Zographou,\\" to be unnecessary. But this, too, was bearable for me: I love history and was fascinated by many of Kostova's sensitive details; for instance, did you know that Bulgarians nod their heads to say 'no' and shake them to say 'yes'?  But if you know everything there is to know about Eastern Europe, or you don't give a wit about Eastern Europe, THE HISTORIAN probably isn't the book for you.  <br /> <br />So while I can accept the fact that Kostova felt it necessary to include what I can only imagine are passages lifted directly from her dissertation, and to include them in an often dry, textbook-like style, I can't accept the ending of her lengthy novel.  THE HISTORIAN took me a good week and a half to read--and I can't remember the last time I worked on one book for that long--but I stuck with it because I was expecting a blow-out ending; I mean, there *had* to be a confrontation with Dracula, right?  And in that regard, I wasn't disappointed; Kostova's Dracula is an appealing figure, fittingly articulate and polite and also purely evil.  But my question is this: How can a being who has existed for more than five hundred years be done away with by mere mortals so easily?  IN ONE PARAGRAPH?  She takes six hundred pages to get to her climax, and then it happens in ONE PARAGRAPH?  Clearly, she was ready to be done writing--and at that point, I was ready to be done reading. <br /> <br />THE 'DRACULA' CODE this is not, but THE HISTORIAN is still a captivating book in its own right, despite numerous freshman flaws (length, lack of a satisfying climax, etc. etc.).  For lovers of historical fiction, for lovers of a good Dracula novel, THE HISTORIAN will be entertaining and engaging enough to get through.  But know this going in: It's long, so you'll have to devote a lot of time to it.  And it's not \\"fluffy\\" long, either: You have to pay attention to what's going on.  Much of it is boring.  The ending is ultimately unsatisfying.  But the characters are engaging, the epistolary narrative is refreshing, many passages are haunting; the novel does have good elements.  Elizabeth Kostova is destined for greatness, but THE HISTORIAN was just a little bit too ambitious of an undertaking.	2005-10-09
US	29136933	R1Q6LGD0CUEXFY	0060587245	788287682	The Breakdown Lane	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A luminous and incredibly real addition to Mitchard's body of work	Although she makes her living giving other people advice in 'Excess Baggage,' the weekly column she writes for the local newspaper, when it comes to her own life Julieanne Gillis refuses to believe the signs that her twenty-plus-year marriage to husband Leo Steiner is about to end.  And who could blame her?  She's busy raising their three children:  Gabe, the oldest, who suffers from learning disabilities; Caroline, a year younger, who is just starting to discover boys; and Aurora Borealis--called Aury--the toddler resulting from Julie's desperate attempt to draw Leo back to her.  Leo, for his part, is suffering from a midlife crisis of the worst kind.  He is discontented with his ordinary life as a lawyer and, claiming that he needs a break from the pressures of being a husband and a father, he takes off on a six-month sabbatical to a utopian commune in Upstate New York, leaving behind an empty promise to return and no forwarding address.  Soon after he leaves, Julie receives another crushing blow:  She's been diagnosed with multiple sclerosis.    THE BREAKDOWN LANE chronicles the life of this broken family over the months that follow.  From Julie's perspective, we get to see what it's like to take cancer drugs that are supposed to help MS; we get to see how terrible her bad spells are for her and her children.  MS is revealed as a debilitating disease, one that lurks in the shadows and picks the perfect moment to strike.  Julie is a brilliant character, vivid and tough, who is portrayed as neither a martyr nor a victim; she is simply human, sometimes selfish, sometimes sad, sometimes full of joy at the blessings she's been given.  Sometimes she feels like doing pirouettes for hours; sometimes all she is able to do is lay in bed. Julie also tells us what it's like to be betrayed by the love of your life.  She goes through all the stages of grief:  disbelief, heartbreak, anger and, finally, acceptance.  Mitchard portrays her flawlessly, believably--and the author'ssensitivity to and knowledge of this terrible disease is striking.      Julie's first-person chapters are alternated with excerpts from her son Gabe's journals.  When his father leaves and his mother gets sick, it's up to Gabe to step in and be a father for his young sister, Aury.  And he does so--without complaining.  Although he suffers from severe learning disabilities that hinder his ability to succeed in school, his journal entries reveal a young man mature beyond his years, sensitive and surprisingly attuned to human behaviors.  He's intelligent and sweet, a son any mother would be proud to have.  It is in Gabe's journals that we learn about the plan he and his sister Caro concoct to bring their father home.  Traveling by bus, they journey across the country, from Wisconsin to Vermont and then to New York, hoping to find their father and convince him to come home.  They do find him--and also the family he's started with a younger woman.  And they do convince him to come home--but not with the results they'd hoped for.  There is a happy ending, though--and thank God!  Julie and her family sure deserve it.    In her latest offering, Mitchard once again proves that she's the master of writing about human relationships.  Her novel is vibrant and fluid, simply poignant but also complicated, the story of one family's coping mechanisms in the face of unspeakable crisis.  She cares about her characters and writes each one of them flawlessly, with depth and sensitivity and an unmatchable realism.  And she makes it seem so easy!  Whether we like them or hate them, the characters that people her novels are real, for better or worse (and, in this novel, there is at least one character you really won't like).  Her narrators are alternately angry and sweet, and together, the stories of Julie and Gabe add up to one unforgettable and astonishingly real novel.  THE BREAKDOWN LANE is a success, on all levels, made more so by its startlingly accurate portrayal of the affects ofMS on someone who is diagnosed with it--and on that person's family.  This is an expertly-written family saga that is not to be missed!	2005-09-28
US	29136933	RCDASF8W97CFD	0684859718	666165371	Deadly Decisions	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Dr. Temperance Brennan vs. Outlaw Motorcyle Clubs	She's taken on serial killers and fanatical cults--and now, in this third entry in Kathy Reichs' groundbreaking series, Dr. Temperance Brennan faces arguably her most dangerous foes yet:  the Outlaw Motorcycle Clubs--'OMCs'--of Montreal.  DEADLY DECISIONS picks up where DEATH DU JOUR left off--with forensic anthropologist Tempe analyzing bones in her lab and agonizing over her relationship with Detective Andrew Ryan.  This time, the bones belong to a 9-year-old girl who, while on her way to dance class, is caught in the crossfire between rival gangs involved in Montreal's notorious biker war.  In her trademark ironic voice, Tempe describes her involvement in the investigation as being a part of the \\"murder of the day club\\"--and for once, she's not exaggerating.  Within the course of two weeks, at least three bikers are murdered, and bones of two more that had been buried for twenty years are discovered on the grounds of one of the gang's clubhouses.  Along with these bones, Tempe also uncovers a mysterious skull and leg bones that are revealed to belong to a young girl who went missing years ago in North Carolina, leading Tempe to investigate the activities of these outlaw motorists in her home state. <br /> <br />And if Tempe's professional life is screwed up, her personal life is even worse.  She is devastated to discover that her almost-lover, Detective Andrew Ryan, has been arrested on suspicion of involvement in the illicit drug trade of the outlaw bikers.  Her boss and friend, Pierre LaManche, has been hospitalized following a mysterious collapse.  She's being followed by a persistent journalist who won't leave her alone.  And to top it all off, her nephew Kit has arrived in Montreal, and his obsession with Harleys has led him to befriend some shady characters.  As the biker war escalates and the body count continues to rise, it's up to Tempe to put her personal life on the back burner and, along with her colleagues at LML, find out who is responsible for thelatest murders--and, hopefully, to save her nephew in the process. <br /> <br />There are quite a few things Reichs does well in this third of Tempe's stories.  Her characters continue to develop nicely; this time, we readers get to see the softer side of our heroine, the Tempe who's desperate for love and willing to protect the man she cares about at all costs.  Although I've always admired Tempe's toughness, it's nice to see that sensitivity shining through.  Her voice is the same--wry, dry, and forthright.  Her nephew Kit, with his Texas slang, is welcome comic relief in this dark and leathery tale.  As usual, Reichs' technical information is informative and not too dense; this time, she tells us all about blood spattering patterns and what they can tell investigators about manner of death.  So DEADLY DECISIONS, like its predecessors, is quite the thrill ride--and it's a smart one. <br /> <br />However, I did find this one a little bit harder to get into than the previous two.  The first fifty pages or so really dragged for me; I found myself getting lost in the maze of rival biker gangs and the prime players in each.  Throughout the entire novel, I was never really clear on which gangs were affiliated with each other and what gangs they were against.  It's the first time I've really felt that Reichs gave her readers *too much* information.  And some of the gang names in the book are so cliche that I almost had to laugh:  The Rock Machine, the Vipers, and the Heathens are just a few of the groups that appear in the pages of DEADLY DECISIONS (I have no idea if these are actual gangs or not--if they are, I of course don't mean to offend any big leather-wearing tatooed guys with lots of hair).  And the fact that Reichs portrays bikers in such a negative light disturbed me just a bit.  During my time as a waitress, I met many well-mannered and downright sweet motorcyclists (although I don't know how many of them were Hells Angels). <br /> <br />Nevertheless, DEADLY DECISIONS is a fine addition to the Temperance Brennan series.  Reichs isn't running out of steam yet; I'm looking forward to reading FATAL VOYAGE to find out what happens with Tempe and Ryan.  Although, I will end this review the same way I did my review of DEATH DU JOUR:  It's *really* time for Tempe to get herself a gun.  Sometimes, a can of Mace just isn't enough.	2005-09-25
US	29136933	R27Z31ZUU4NBLZ	0316057851	14392564	Lifeguard	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Sandy beaches, crooked cops, and expensive art	The job was supposed to be air-tight:  Enter the mansion, steal three particularly expensive pieces of art (valued at $60 million), and find a cool $5 million in their bank accounts tomorrow.  For lifeguard Ned Kelly and his four friends, it's just the break they've been waiting for.  For Ned, who has just bedded the beautiful and rich Tess McAuliffe, the heist means a total life change; he daydreams of spending his days on exotic islands, drinking orange martinis with his new love by his side.  But something goes terribly wrong the night of the heist.  When Ned's friends arrive at the mansion, the paintings are already gone--and when they return to their rendezvous point, they are brutally massacred, executioner's style.  Ned, who has been driving around setting of burglar alarms to divert the cops, arrives late enough to escape unscathed.  But when he goes back to the hotel where Tess is staying, he discovers that she, too, has been murdered--only an hour before his friends were killed.  Ned knows the cops will be after him soon enough, and he is desperate to discover who murdered his friends and his new love.  So, he runs--to Brockton, south of Boston, his hometown.  Along the way he runs into FBI Special Agent Ellie Shurtleff, a member of the Bureau's Art Theft and Fraud Department.  He takes her hostage and manages to convince her that he is innocent, and together they try to solve the murders, doing their own detective work and following dangerous leads.  Are the murders of Tess McAuliffe and Ned's friends related?  How is Ned's father involved?  Who is Dr. Gachet, the mastermind behind the heist?  And if Ned's friends didn't steal the paintings...who did? <br /> <br />The writing is nothing to write home about and the plot is improbable in some places (especially at the end), but Patterson's new novel, LIFEGUARD, is still an entertaining read.  It's funny in spots and punctuated by short chapters which make reading go quickly.  LIFEGUARD is full of unexpectedtwists, and the characters are surprisingly nuanced and well-developed.  I enjoyed the interesting art history, so much so that I was inspired to look up van Gogh's 'Dr. Gachet' online.  LIFEGUARD, while not nearly Patterson's best, is good enough to read on the beach and exciting enough for the pages to fly by.	2005-09-20
US	29136933	R3IHMXNEB1F1BA	0345483170	484599755	How to Be Lost: A Novel	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A little book with big heart--I read it in one sitting!	The Winters sisters lived in a million-dollar house in the suburbs of New York City when they were growing up.  Their father, a Wall Street businessman, was an alcoholic, drowning alone each evening in his den.  Their mother, ex-model Isabelle, was beautiful but largely co-dependent.  With dysfunctional parents, the three girls learned to depend on each other.  At night, they would gather in one bed and whisper about the day they'd run away to New Orleans.   <br /> <br />But then, on the morning they planned their great escape, the youngest sister, 5-year-old Ellie, disappeared.  The loss tore the parents apart:  Mr. Winters retreated farther into his Scotch and soon died of cirrhosis, and Isabelle retreated farther into herself.  The older girls, Caroline and Madeline, grew farther and farther apart. <br /> <br />Flash-forward 15 years.  There's still no sign of Ellie, and Madeline and Caroline only see each other at Christmas.  Madeline is an \\"upper East Side wife,\\" living in NYC with her investment banker husband and expecting her first child.  And Caroline, the narrator of HOW TO BE LOST, did indeed move to New Orleans, and she now works at a tourist bar as a cocktail waitress.  Thoughts of Ellie still nag at her; unlike Madeline, who seeks closure, Caroline cannot accept the thought that Ellie may be dead.  When she sees a photo in People magazine that was taken in Montana of a young woman who looks alarmingly like Ellie, Caroline decides to head to Missoula and seek out her sister.  What she doesn't realize is that the trip she's taking really isn't to find Ellie at all; it's a journey to find Madeline, the sister who never got lost, and to discover who she herself is. <br /> <br />I read HOW TO BE LOST in a couple of hours.  It's a little book, but rarely can I remember reading a book of any size that had as much heart as this little gem of a novel does.  Told in a series of first-person narratives, letters, and flashbacks, HOW TO BE LOST is a quick, engaging, and charming read.  The layers of the story are revealed expertly; the characters are revealed just as deftly.  Caroline's voice is intelligent and sharply observant, perceptive and surprising.  The novel is beautifully written in simple, spare prose, and it is emotionally stirring.  The novel's \\"mystery\\" reaches a surprising conclusion, and the resolution of the novel is simply lovely.  HOW TO BE LOST is the story of one family, ravaged by grief and loss:  It's the story of two sisters slowly growing back together again.  Just read the first page and try not to read on.  Try this little book right away--you'll love it!	2005-09-19
US	29136933	R3JWZ0D8YNJRJA	0066213355	62247710	Sweetwater Creek	Books	5	15	17	N	N	If I could live in a novel...	...I would want to live in SWEETWATER CREEK, the latest novel by Anne Rivers Siddons.  A magical place where dolphins venture onto land to feed and spaniels speak, a locale that is almost mystical in its unspeakable beauty:  the land of the Lowcountry in South Carolina, the place 12-year-old Emily Parmenter calls home.  During the summer of her twelfth year, loneliness falls over Emily like a heavy sheet, dark and constricting.  Her mother left when she was very young, and her brother Buddy, with whom she read poetry and shared secrets for hours, has been dead for years.  Her father and twin brothers, with whom she lives at Sweetwater Plantation, focus all their time on training the plantation's famous and widely known Boykin spaniels.  This summer, Emily and her only companion, her own Boykin Elvis, are on their own. <br /> <br />That is, until a wealthy couple from Charleston bring their daughter to Sweetwater to look at the Boykins.  LuLu Foxworth is 20 years old, ethereally beautiful and utterly wasted-looking all at once.  LuLu is over-tired, her parents say, and is recovering from the flu.  When they see how LuLu responds to the dogs, they ask Emily's father Walter if she could possibly come stay with them at Sweetwater for a few months, just until school starts in the fall.  Walter Parmenter, who desires nothing more than to be a part of Carolina high society, sees LuLu as his ticket to an unattainable world and ardently agrees to let her stay.  At first Emily resists LuLu's presence and attempts at friendship, but it isn't long before the two girls become friends, despite their age difference.  And it isn't long before Emily learns that LuLu's perfect life isn't nearly what it seems, and that the young woman is hiding some terrible secrets of her own.  What started out like any other summer becomes the summer that Emily grows up, begins to \\"know things,\\" and recognizes that fact that she must leave her magical world of dolphins and pluff mud and face the real world. <br /> <br />SWEETWATER CREEK is, in one word, astonishing.  In Anne Rivers Siddons' expert hands, the magical Carolina Lowcountry comes alive.  The novel is thick with atmosphere, and the prose is absolutely breathtaking, lyrical and haunting, and it almost reads like poetry.  Her descriptions are vivid and lively, perceptive and evocative.  The novel, with all its talk of debutantes and old family plantations, feels timeless. <br /> <br />Siddons' characters are intricate and lovingly written.  The relationship between Elvis and Emily is engaging; Emily's relationship with LuLu is complicated and well-explored.  Walter is a particularly interesting creation, a man who cares more about his daughter's debut in society than he does about Emily herself.  And LuLu--Well, LuLu is a charming, heartbreaking character, a girl who, although she is young, has dark desires to which she can't help but succumb.  All of the characters are so real, balancing nicely with the magical unreality of the setting. <br /> <br />SWEETWATER CREEK is, above all, a coming-of-age story.  Emily is a finely-wrought heroine, an innocent girl who is brutally introduced to the adult world.  The plot meanders, but the novel's message rings clear in Siddons' verdant prose:  Eventually, we all grow up; eventually, we have to stop trying to save people who hurt us.  SWEETWATER CREEK is a novel not to be missed.  Each page contains unspeakable beauty.  As one previous reviewer said, you'll want to linger longer in this ethereal world.	2005-09-18
US	29136933	R1C09W40PQMSNT	0671001795	876638734	Two for the Dough (Stephanie Plum, No. 2) (Stephanie Plum Novels)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Stephanie Plum, Bounty Hunter Extraordinaire, makes a triumphant return	In TWO FOR THE DOUGH, Stephanie's still new at this bounty hunting business, so her boss and cousin, Vinnie, is trying to give her easy cases to work on.  And her latest case was supposed to be just that--simple:  Apprehend Kenny Mancuso, who shot his friend in the leg and skipped on his bond.  But while she's looking for Kenny, his friend turns up dead, fatally shot in the head (rhyme unintentional).  Clearly, this complicates things.  Meanwhile, Spiro Stiva, the weasel-like owner of a funeral parlor and a childhood friend of Kenny's, recruits Stephanie to find 24 caskets he's mysteriously \\"misplaced.\\"  With the help of Joe Morelli, a vice cop with whom Stephanie has a long and colorful history, and Grandma Mazur, Stephanie searches out any leads, staking out funeral homes all over the burg and even breaking into a few apartments to get answers.  When embalmed body parts begin turning up in her apartment, it becomes apparent that caskets aren't the only thing Spiro misplaced.  Who is sending Stephanie fingers and feet and other unmentionable body parts?  And is there a connection between Spiro's missing caskets and Kenny's increasing craziness?  Leave it to Stephanie Plum, the tough-talking, stun-gun-packing, purple-heel-wearing bounty hunter to figure it out!    Just like its predecessor, TWO FOR THE DOUGH is laugh-aloud funny and packed with hilarious characters.  There's Grandma Mazur, who wears hot pants, dyes her hair apricot, and doesn't think twice about carrying concealed.  There's Lula, the overweight ex-hooker who's trying to get into the bounty hunting business.  There's Mr. Plum, who says little but speaks much with expressions and sighs.  There's Joe Morelli, the hunky, tough-talkin' cop who Stephanie finds hard to resist.  And there's Stephanie herself, a thirty-year-old woman with a healthy appetite and a libido to match.    And speaking of Stephanie and Morelli...Their love-hate relationship is absolutely hilarious.  They make a great team:  Think Starsky & Hutch, only make Hutch a woman and up the sexual tension a few thousand degrees.  I'll be interested to see how their relationship progresses as I read the rest of the books!    TWO FOR THE DOUGH is a rollicking read, fast-paced and so, so fun.  It's smart and witty and absolutely irresistible.  Evanovich's humor is still fresh after two books, and she always leaves me wanting more.  If you want an escape from your uber-serious crime novels, if you want to read a book that'll make you laugh out loud, pick up TWO FOR THE DOUGH--or any of the Stephanie Plum books--right away!	2005-09-15
US	29136933	R3GQBUM5I77364	0743247531	657435935	The Glass Castle: A Memoir	Books	5	1	3	N	N	"Being homeless is an adventure."	If any sentence in this book sums up the story of Jeannette Walls' childhood, it's that one.  Walls, a regular contributor to MSNBC.com, spent a lot of her life moving around the country with gypsy-like parents.  THE GLASS CASTLE is her memoir, chronicling these experiences during her childhood and adolescence and proving the point that, sometimes, fact really is stranger than fiction.    Walls' father was a paranoid alcoholic, a would-be entrepreneur and inventor who couldn't hold a job for more than a couple of months.  Her mother, a sometime artist and writer, was flighty, manic depressive, and selfish.  When whims or paranoia arose, the Walls parents would pack up their children (Walls, 2 sisters, and a brother) and move to a new spot on the map, chosen at random.  This resulted in a chaotic childhood, one in which food and clothing were scarce, but there was always a new adventure to discover.  The Walls children learned to fend for themselves when neglected by their self-absorbed parents, whether it meant digging through dumpsters looking for food or sleeping on mattresses made of cardboard and held together with rope.  At the center of the novel is Walls' relationship with her father, an enigma of a man who alternately amazed and disappointed his daughter.  One year, he gave each of the Walls children a star for a Christmas present; years later, he pimped Walls at a bar and stole the money she and her siblings had been saving for years.    Although she has certainly earned the right to complain, the most refreshing part about Walls' narrative is that she never once plays the victim when recounting the events of her childhood.  Although the circumstances she describes border on abusive and are unquestionably neglectful, Walls takes a removed standpoint and tells her story with simplicity and grace.  She does not judge or condemn her parents; rather, she loves them for their carefree attitudes and left-of-center philosophies.    THE GLASS CASTLE is filled withstartling and disturbing images, told in Walls' clear, concise prose.  At one point, Walls writes about coloring her skin with markers to hide the holes in her pants; at another, she relates the experience of being sexually assaulted by her uncle and having her mother tell her that sexual harrassment is a crime of perception.  She describes the experience of making her own braces to correct her buck teeth, since she knew her parents couldn't afford to buy her orthodontia.  Her memoir is heartbreaking and unforgettable, and some of the things Walls and her siblings went through are so unbelievable that I actually felt like I was reading a novel.  But I wasn't, and that's what makes it so sad:  Walls' story is all true.    It's ironic that Walls' father nicknamed her Mountain Goat--because she certainly has had to climb a mountain to get where she is today.  Her memoir is poignant and beautiful and sad and incredibly brave and subtle and funny--it's the best book I've read so far this year.  And when you reach THE GLASS CASTLE's resounding final sentence, I defy you not to cry.	2005-09-13
US	29136933	R1PRCQYOLBIN6I	0684841185	466385534	Death du Jour	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Yes, there is a lot going on--but if you suspend your disbelief this is one wild ride of a book!	It's winter in Quebec and Dr. Temperance Brennan, forensic anthropologist for the province, has a lot to deal with besides the below-freezing temperatures as DEATH DU JOUR, the second novel in Kathy Reichs' Temperance Brennan series, begins.  Tempe has been called to exhume the remains of a nun, Sister Elisabeth Nicolet, who lived a century earlier and is now being considered by the Catholic church for sainthood.  But there's a problem:  The bones aren't where they're supposed to be.  When Tempe and her crew finally do find the bones in a strange, small coffin buried in the recesses of a decaying church on the property, Tempe discovers another complication:  The nun may not have been who the church thought she was. <br /> <br />Later that same night, Tempe gets an urgent phone call from one of her coworkers:  A residence is on fire north of Montreal, arson is expected...and there are victims:  seven of them, and two are babies no more than four months old.  Tempe is being called in to examine the bodies. <br /> <br />Two days later, an 18-year-old pregnant prostitute is discovered hanging naked from a tree in a suburb of Montreal with strange bite marks and slashes all over her body.  Cause of death:  mauling by canines.   <br /> <br />Meanwhile, Tempe continues to investigate the history of Elisabeth Nicolet, and her search takes her to McGill University to the office of Daisy Jeannotte, a charismatic and strange Southern transplant who specializes in religious studies at the university.  Daisy's assistant, Anna Goyette, reacts strangely when Daisy catches her talking to Tempe.  A week later, Anna disappears. <br /> <br />To top it all off, Tempe's sister Harry has arrived in Quebec and enrolled in courses with a company called Inner Life Empowerment, which promises to cleanse the mind and body to prepare them for cosmic awakening.  Harry, a flighty and difficult woman to live with, further complicates Tempe's relationship with Detective Andrew Ryan.  Needless to say, Tempe, who is in Quebec only until spring break ends at UNC-Charlotte, where she teaches anthropology, has a full three weeks of investigation and exhumation--and she looks forward to going home to relax. <br /> <br />But when she arrives at her home in North Carolina, more work is waiting for her.  Two bodies are discovered on a research island off the coast of South Carolina, and like the prostitute in Montreal, the cause of death is found to be mauling by dogs.  Furthermore, links are discovered between these two victims and the arson victims, all leading Tempe and Ryan, who has come down from Quebec to aid in the investigation, to a mysterious commune far back in South Carolina's low country.  And now, Tempe hasn't heard from Harry for weeks, Elisabeth Nicolet's history is beginning to take shape, Tempe's relationship with Ryan is beginning to heat up, and Tempe herself is threatened once again as her investigation leads her closer to the truth--and closer to discovering how she can save her sister. <br /> <br />So, obviously, there is a lot happening in DEATH DU JOUR.  Reichs' second novel has an intricate plotline, but not as convoluted as you might think.  Her writing is clear, her details pertinent, her formula expertly crafted.  Readers of DEJA DEAD will recognize Tempe's ironic narrative voice, and Reichs expands on her heroine gracefully in this follow-up novel.  We meet more of Tempe's family--her sister, her nephew--and learn more about the other half of her job as a member of the faculty at UNC.  She emerges as an honest and believable heroine with secret motivators and a colorful past. <br /> <br />Some other reviewers seem to find the coincidences that occur in DEATH DU JOUR off-putting.  And they're right to point out the coincidences:  They abound in this book.  The fact that the case expands from Quebec to the Carolinas--the two places Tempe lives--seems far-fetched.  And it is, of course, downright unbelievable that ALL of the cases Tempe isworking on are somehow linked.  But that's why Reichs has written a fictional novel rather than an autobiography.  That's why Tempe is a Reichs stand-in in these novels:  Fiction gives a forensic anthropolgist a lot more liberties (and opportunities) than does fact.  Who says a novel--especially an exciting murder mystery like this one--has to reflect real life?  It doesn't.  So yes, monumental coincidences do occur in DEATH DU JOUR, but those coincidences are overshadowed by above-average writing, a vivid heroine, and an exciting plot line.  They are overshadowed by interesting information about how entomologists use insect analysis to determine date and time of death, descriptions of skeletal reconstruction, and stunning prose taking readers from the warmth and peace of the Southeastern coast to the frigid chill and eerie darkness of a Northern ice storm.  DEATH DU JOUR is a triumph, an exciting, sprawling, intricate novel full of surprising twists and unforgettable characters.  Reichs' formula is working so far!  One thing, though:  It's about time for Tempe to get a gun.	2005-09-12
US	29136933	R3NUO5CIB344O7	084991180X	723070327	Monster	Books	3	2	4	N	N	When evolution goes awry...	It's summer high in the Idaho mountains, and Reed Shelton has brought his wife Rebecca--\\"Beck\\"--to the woods to participate in a survival weekend with their friends Cap and Sing.  Beck, an artist and writer, is shy and self-conscious because of a nagging stutter, and Reed wants to get her out of the house and expand her horizons by introducing her to the outdoors.  They are scheduled to meet Randy Thompson, the leader of the expedition, at a secluded hunter's cabin deep in the woods.  But the minute the arrive at the cabin, they know something is wrong.  The cabin has been ransacked; everything is destroyed, and there is no sign of Randy.  Reed and Beck decide to spend the night near the cabin in the hopes that Randy will return.  But during the night, they hear strange wails and howls rising from the trees, gradually drawing closer.  They are attacked in the darkness by a strange creature and are separated; Reed manages to crawl to safety, but Beck is taken captive.  The next morning, a search party gathers--but the searchers have little hope of finding Beck alive.  What has taken Beck?  Some say a bear, more superstitious people say a Sasquatch...but the truth may be even scarier.    Miles away, at a university in Washington, microbiologists are at work on a top secret experiment, forcing mutations that combine chimpanzee and human DNA.  But now one of their renegade researchers has gone too far in his quest to prove Darwin's theory, and he must face the consequences of his carelessness when one of his creations escapes into the Idaho wilderness.    It's been six years since Frank Peretti's last novel, so his faithful readers have been waiting a long time for MONSTER to hit the shelves.  And they won't be disappointed in Peretti's latest offering--in fact, with MONSTER, Peretti may gain legions of new fans.  The book does contain allusions to Christianity--but only covertly, not overwhelmingly.  And Peretti's discussion of Darwinism will raise questions for Christians and seculars alike:  If mutations bring drawbacks, how did we, a superior species, descend from apes?  The novel is suspenseful and contains surprising twists; it's a complex plot, but custom maps at the end of each chapter will effectively help readers keep up and recall important details.  MONSTER contains verdant description delivered in Peretti's clear, concise prose, and the setting of the novel is so mysterious that it's almost mythical.  There is a lot of information in the text about DNA and mutations, forensic crime-solving, and professional tracking that is interesting as well.  The best part of the book, however, is the compelling way Beck interacts with her captors, learning how to survive by developing the mannerisms of creatures very different from her, adapting to her new \\"family\\".    But yes, there are some flaws in MONSTER.  Many other reviewers have pointed out the needlessly large cast of characters--and they are right to do so.  So many people join the search party, but their characters are underdeveloped by Peretti, which makes the ending less effective than it could have been (and, actually, a little bit confusing).  The plot, like I said before, is complex because it contains a lot of characters and a lot of detail--but really, if you look at the big picture, it's a very simple story:  Beck gets moved around a lot in the woods while attempts to rescue her keep getting thwarted.  Because of this, the narrative gets a little repetitive in certain spots, what with all the hiding and tracking.    But despite all this, MONSTER is a quick, entertaining, suspenseful read that raises some big questions about our origins.  Maybe not Peretti's best work--but good enough to be worth the wait.	2005-09-08
US	29136933	RK9C0I8JFDYWO	1565121783	280819000	Balls	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Where football is a religion...	BALLS, the 1998 novel by Nanci Kincaid, tells the story of Mac and Dixie Gibbs, high school sweethearts in Alabama.  Mac plays quarterback for the Birmingham University football team during college and, after not being picked in the NFL draft, he turns to coaching as a means to stay connected to the game with his new bride by his side.  He starts as a high school coach and gradually works his way up the ladder until he is the head coach of his college team, the HamU Black Bears. <br /> <br />The story, which begins in 1968, chronicles the relationship of Mac and Dixie through all of its stages:  from the rosy beginning when living in a rundown duplex didn't matter, as long as they were together, to the later days, when Dixie and her two children begin to play second fiddle to Mac's team.  The story is told in the voices of the women who surround Mac:  Dixie, her friends, her mother, mother-in-law, and daughter, the wives of other coaches and the mothers of Mac's players. <br /> <br />BALLS is a novel about the Southern football tradition, where the sport is a religion in itself, where the holy day is Saturday and players are nicknamed \\"Miracle.\\"  Kincaid not only reveals what it's like to be a woman caught up in this tradition, always coming second to the game--she also reveals a darker side of the sport, where race relations are strategically upheld and corruption reigns supreme.  Her female narrators touch on all of these issues in their narratives:  love, marriage, sex, race, illegal activity.  Their voices are exhuberant, their insights raw, poignant, and surprising.  \\"I learned long ago that the big 'W', so sought after and revered, does not stand for 'wife,'\\" Dixie muses at one point late in the book. <br /> <br />BALLS is not just about the game--it's about what goes on before and after the game, from the perspective of the women in the stands who live the life of a coach's wife.  It's about the politics of the game--recruiting, staffing, bribery.  And foremost, it's about Dixie, who transforms from an inept new bride to a seasoned wife and mother and finally refuses to be second anymore.  And it's about Mac, a good man who lets the job overtake him.  And it's about all of the women who surround Mac, and the stories they have to tell.  Kincaid balances her narrators successfully; her Southern women's voices are dead-on, and she is clearly writing about a topic that she's familiar with since she herself has been married to two college football coaches.  Her insights about pressure from fans are also accurate--I know this because I myself live in a football town, where our hometown coach is alternately God or the devil, depending on if he puts a 'W' or an 'L' on the board for the team.  Overall, BALLS is an energetic, sad, funny, and honest portrait of the life of a coach's wife, from first down to punt.	2005-09-06
US	29136933	R1RY3RLKYR8A0M	0684841177	484181364	Déjà Dead	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A taut and technically accurate debut	DEJA DEAD, the first novel by forensic anthropologist Kathy Reichs, introduces readers to Dr. Temperance Brennan, the semi-autobiographical heroine of all of Reichs' novels.  Temperance--or \\"Tempe,\\" as her friends call her--divides her time between North Carolina, where she teaches at UNC-Charlotte (like Reichs herself) and Quebec, where she works for the Laboratoire des Sciences Judiciaires et de Medecine Legale (also like Reichs).  Tempe's job?:  to study the bones of homicide victims and find out how they died. <br /> <br />It's June in Quebec, and Tempe is looking forward to a relaxing holiday weekend.  But just as she's getting ready to leave, a call comes in:  A skeleton has been discovered on seminary grounds in the heart of Montreal, and Tempe is wanted at the crime scene.  One look at the decomposing body tells Tempe she's looking at human remains; and, upon closer scrutiny, Tempe begins to notice similarities between this crime scene and another from the previous year.  The meticulous dismemberment of the body, as well as the strategic stashing of body parts in black plastic bags, remind her of the case of Chantale Trottier, a sixteen-year-old girl who showed up on Tempe's examining table in the morgue less than a year ago.  Immediately, Tempe suspects parallels between the two cases, and she begins to do some of her own investigating.  What she uncovers reveals not only a link between the two victims, but also among at least three other victims of unsolved crimes, suggesting that the police are dealing with a serial killer.  The problem is, the police are hesitant to believe Tempe's theory.  So Tempe must call upon all of her forensic skills--bone, tooth, and bitemark analysis, X-ray microflourescence--to prove that the cases are related and to stop the murderer before he kills another victim.  As Tempe gets closer and closer to the truth, looking for answers among priests and prostitutes, the elusive killer gets closer and closer to her--until the next victim may be Tempe's friend and fellow anthropologist Gabby, her daughter Katy, or Tempe herself. <br /> <br />DEJA DEAD is an endlessly suspenseful, tautly executed, and incredibly smart debut thriller.  The plot is complex and unpredictable, fast-paced but still layered with detail.  In Reichs' hands, the city of Quebec comes to life;  the descriptions of areas of the city and the citizens who people them are interesting and seemingly accurate.  Reichs meticulously describes the technical processes used by forensic anthropologists and how people in her profession use bones to catch killers, making for an educational as well as an exciting read.  Tempe Brennan is tough-as-nails but still sensitive, a hard worker and a late sleeper, and is up there with Kay Scarpetta and Stephanie Plum as one of the finest heroines in crime fiction. <br /> <br />However, while many parts of the book are well-written (especially the snappy dialogue between characters and the technical explanations), I soon found myself becoming lost in a sea of similes, something I'm surprised Reichs' editors didn't catch.  For example, all of these sentences appear in one chapter:  \\"I trembled and then tensed, my thoughts running through my options like a deck of cards.\\"  \\"I strained to hear the slightest sound, my heart banging against my ribs like a moth against a screen.\\"  \\"His eyes looked cold and hard, like some Mesozoic mammal.\\"  \\"Every fiber of his tissue felt taut, like a slingshot stretched to deliver.\\"  \\"The handle of the steak knife rose from his left eye like a flag pin on a putting green.\\"  And, my favorite:  \\"I looked down from my bench, like a passenger on Mr. Toad's Wild Ride.\\"  And the whole book is like that; I would venture a guess that there's probably a simile on every page of DEJA DEAD.  What's worse, not only are the similes amateurish, but as you can see, they are also cliched and nonsensical. <br /> <br />Aside from the similes (which I'm chalking up to first-novel mediocrity), DEJA DEAD is a successful first offering, expertly intertwining real-life forensic processes with an exciting fictional plot.  I'm definitely going to read DEATH DU JOUR, the second novel featuring Tempe Brennan, and hope for fewer similes to cloud my reading.	2005-09-04
US	29136933	R2XHU2Z1QTO78R	0312990456	830758196	One for the Money (Stephanie Plum, No. 1)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	I'm hooked on Stephanie Plum!	I have been wanting to read Janet Evanovich's popular series starring Stephanie Plum for quite some time, and when the eleventh entry came out earlier this year and I realized how much catching up I'd have to do, I decided not to wait another minute to begin ONE FOR THE MONEY.  And as I started reading, I just kept thinking to myself, \\"Why did I wait so long to read these books?\\" I was immediately hooked on Stephanie Plum, Janet Evanovich's lively, realistic heroine. <br /> <br />ONE FOR THE MONEY introduces readers to Stephanie Plum, lingerie-buyer-turned-bounty-hunter from New Jersey.  At the beginning of the novel, Stephanie's been out of work for six months.  Her car is being repossessed, she's hocking appliances for cash, her refrigerator is empty (save for some hamster nuggets), and she's in danger of losing her apartment.  Desperate for a job, Stephanie bribes her couisn Vinnie (who's into kinky sex and is desperate to keep that a secret from his wife) to give her a job working as a bounty hunter.  Her first assignment:  Pick up Joe Morelli, a cop accused of murder, and receive $10,000, 10% of the bond.  Complicating matters is the fact that Morelli took Stephanie's virginity behind the counter of a bagel shop 14 years ago, and she still finds him irresistible.  Add into the mix a crazy boxer who is harrassing Stephanie, two large prostitutes, and Stephanie's delightfully colorful and strange family--and you have a recipe for a wildly entertaining and tightly-written crime novel. <br /> <br />Janet Evanovich's characters are expertly crafted.  Stephanie is a tough-as-nails Jersey girl, who still manages to be vulnerable and funny and have a healthy libido--which makes her very realistic and lovable.  The story is fast-paced; Stephanie's narrative voice is straightforward and clever, with just the right balance of toughness and sensitivity. <br /> <br />And, even though you may scoff at the seemingly outlandish plot (out-of-work lingerie buyer becomes bounty hunter overnight), the best part of the novel is that Stephanie's story is entirely believable and delightfully fun.  Evanovich has successfully created characters you really root for (yes, even the bad guys) in a location that couldn't be more perfect:  the streets of Trenton, New Jersey, in bad neighborhoods where cars are spray-painted with obscenities, and in good neighborhoods where middle-aged women threaten to tell mothers what their adult children have been up to.  Stephanie Plum is an unforgettable heroine, and ONE FOR THE MONEY is a fabulous introduction to her series.	2005-08-31
US	29136933	R2YHLXVO6IUC65	0060742887	382907390	Devil's Corner	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Strong female leads, an action-packed plot, and a romantic substory...What more could a reader ask for?	Assistant United States Attorney Vicki Allegretti has just arrived for a conference with a confidential informant when things go terribly wrong. Two young men have broken into the house and killed Vicki's pregnant informant, and events escalate when the men confront Vicki, holding her at gunpoint while they shoot her partner, ATF agent Bob \\"Morty\\" Morton.  Fresh off her brush with death, Vicki vows to find the men who killed her partner...and so DEVIL'S CORNER, the new novel by Lisa Scottoline, begins. <br /> <br />Vicki is convinced that there is a connection between the young men who murdered her informant and the case she is currently trying, a \\"straw\\" case in which a beautiful young woman named Reheema Bristow is accused of reselling purchased guns to unauthorized users.  Shayla Jackson, the informant that was killed, claimed to be Reheema's best friend, and her testimony was the sole piece of evidence that could convict Reheema.  With Reheema once again free and claiming to never have met Shayla Jackson, Vicki is determined to find the link between the two women. Her search leads her to Devil's Corner, a section of Philadelphia that is devastated by poverty and drugs.  And then someone else is murdered, someone very close to Reheema, and Vicki and Reheema grudgingly begin to work together in hopes of uncovering the truth.  Their investigation leads them deep into the Philadelphia drug trade, into neighborhoods crushed under the weight of winter snow and illegal activity.  Along the way, not only will they discover some startling and unexpected truths, they will also realize that a street-tough black woman with a crack-addicted mother and a lawyer who graduated from Harvard and drives a white Cabrio actually have more in common than you would think. <br /> <br />Lisa Scottoline used to be a lawyer, and in DEVIL'S CORNER, it shows.  Not only is her intimate knowledge of the law and the crime-solving process apparent in the pages of her new novel, she actually based the plot of DEVIL'S CORNER off of a real Philadelphia court case.  This results in a storyline that is tight, involved, and intricate, filled with action and chapters with cliffhanging endings. <br /> <br />Reheema and Vicki are strong female leads.  The dialogue between them is sharp, witty, and honest, and the nuances in their relationship are subtly rendered by their creator.  Paired with their relationship is the evolving one between Vicki and her coworker Dan, a married man who Vicki is desperately in love with.  These relationships that make up Vicki's personal life are balanced nicely with her professional life as an AUSA. <br /> <br />I thoroughly enjoyed DEVIL'S CORNER; it was so compulsively readable, I finished it in a day and a half.  Scottoline's new novel is exciting, intelligent, insightful, and relentless--and I consider it a fine introduction to the rest of her novels, which I plan to read immediately. <br /> <br />	2005-08-29
US	29136933	R6OKP6WDQ902Q	0373770413	348382700	Before Sunrise (Mira Hardbacks)	Books	2	10	20	N	N	My first, and probably my last, Diana Palmer book...	In 1994, Phoebe Keller, a college student majoring in forensic anthropology, met Comanche Jeremiah Cortez when he was working with her aunt for the FBI on a pollution case.  There was an immediate attraction between the two, but they were given neither the time nor the opportunity to explore their feelings.  Cortez attended Phoebe's graduation from college; they shared a passionate moment in a hotel parking lot; and Cortez left.  Three weeks later, Phoebe received an envelope from him, containing only a newspaper clipping announcing that he had married someone else.<br /><br />Now, three years later, Phoebe works as the curator of a small Native American museum in Chenocetah, North Carolina.  She still hasn't gotten over Cortez and has sworn off men altogether.  But one day, Phoebe receives a strange phone call from a fellow anthropologist, asking about a Neatherthal skeleton he discovered in a cave not far from there.  Dubious, Phoebe tells him no Neanderthal bones have ever been discovered in North America--but before the conversation can conclude, the man is interrupted and hangs up the phone quickly.  The following day, he is found dead, his body dumped on Cherokee land...And Jeremiah Cortez, now working for the FBI's Indian Country Crime Unit, is called in to investigate.  As Cortez and Phoebe work together to solve the case, it is obvious that the passion that existed between them is still brewing, but they have more important things to worry about:  The bodies are piling up, and all signs point to Phoebe being the next victim.<br /><br />First of all, let me say that I'm not really all that into romance novels.  I am, however, very interested in anthropology and pre-history, and that's why I decided to try Diana Palmer's latest novel, BEFORE SUNRISE.  Unfortunately (for me), the anthropological aspect of the novel goes out the door about halfway through in order to make room for steamy, eye-rolling love scenes.  Although this novel has the basis for a decentpolice procedural, it is above all a romance novel.  The mystery takes a backseat to the lovin'...which is fine, if that's the kind of novel you enjoy.<br /><br />And even if it is the kind of novel you enjoy, I would venture to say it would still be difficult to enjoy this particular book.  The characters are one-dimensional, the dialogue is stilted, the prose is cliched (if I read about any more \\"speaking glances\\" or \\"crushing, grinding mouths,\\" that'll just be the limit for me).  And some parts of the novel made me actually say \\"Oh please\\" out loud--and I've never done that before with any novel.  Phoebe, of course, is a virgin, saving herself for the glorious day when the love of her life returns.  And of course, Phoebe gets pregnant the first time she and Cortez make love.  How perfect!  And let's not forget how a frostbitten Phoebe and her rescuer Cortez have time for a cuddle, sweet words, and some \\"bruising kisses\\" in the snow before getting into a warm car!<br /><br />All that saves this novel is its sensitivity to Native Americans, its discussion of Indian mysticism, and its deflation of popular Native American stereotypes.  I'm just not into the romance genre, I guess.  You can give me a negative vote, but I'm going to stick with Nora Roberts for suspenseful novels with a dash of romance from now on.	2005-08-29
US	29136933	R334FWF2WHLXS	0553804154	829325009	Velocity	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Koontz's best since INTENSITY	In recent years, I have started to shy away from Dean Koontz's books a bit.  I haven't really been impressed with any of his recent works.  In my opinion, INTENSITY is not only his best book to date, but the last book he published that is worth a second read.  That is, until VELOCITY.  With his latest novel, Koontz is back at the top of his form.  He has delivered a non-stop, pulse-pounding thrill ride of a book that rivals INTENSITY in its incomparable level of excitement and terror.    34-year-old Billy Wiles lives a solitary life in California's Napa Valley.  A bartender in a family tavern, an ex-writer, and a woodcarver, Billy lives in isolation far from his nearest neighbors.  His days are punctuated by visits to Whispering Pines, the convalescent home where his fiancee, Barbara, lies deep in a coma, her only words a series of nonsensical phrases and meaningless expressions that Billy faithfully records in a small notebook.  But his life will soon become much less solitary, and much more terrifying.    One evening as he's leaving work, Billy finds a note on his Explorer's windshield, stuck between the wiper and the glass:  \\"If you don't take this note to the police and get them involved, I will kill a lovely blond schoolteacher somewhere in Napa County.  If you do take this note to the police, I will instead kill an elderly woman active in charity work.  You have six hours to decide.  The choice is yours.\\"  What Billy at first thinks is a joke turns out to be deadly serious, and Billy finds himself caught up in a performance with a potentially life-ending final act.  With each note, the killer gets more personal, the deadlines get shorter, the choices get more difficult...and Billy realizes that he alone must make the choice to end the sick performance once and for all.    VELOCITY is relentless, a roller coaster ride that lasts for 400-plus pages.  Koontz's story is insane and unexpected, thought-provoking and vibrant.  Dean Koontz doesn't just write a dime-store thriller with a formulaic plot and mannequin-like characters; he writes a NOVEL, one with an involved storyline and deep characters who are forced to use their humanity to overcome near-impossible odds.  Billy Wiles is one of his most vivid creations to date, a man so tormented by his past that he has nearly let go of life.    Not only is VELOCITY a thrill ride full of unexpected twists and turns, it's also substantially more well-written than many of Koontz's other novels.  In VELOCITY, Koontz has taken pains not only to tell a story, but to tell it beautifully, with stunning descriptions of scenic Napa Valley.  He is consciously making the effort to evolve his prose in his latest novel, and he does so brilliantly, borrowing the musings of T.S. Eliot and the incomparable language of Dickens in certain places.  VELOCITY, on all levels, is a success.  I think the ending could have been stronger and that more could have been explained, and for that I'm giving VELOCITY 4 starts instead of 5.  But beyond that, Koontz's latest offering kept me guessing and consistently surprised me--as any good suspense novel should--and it actually creeped me out so much that I was too scared to read it last night when I was home alone.  A thriller not to be missed!    And by the way, if you haven't read INTENSITY, YOU SHOULD.  Of course...the choice is yours.	2005-08-25
US	29136933	R1UV2W690TWSS6	0452286530	781983073	The Jane Austen Book Club	Books	4	10	12	N	N	Each of us has a "private Austen"...	THE JANE AUSTEN BOOK CLUB, the latest novel by Karen Joy Fowler, centers on six acquaintances--five women, one man--who gather once a month for six months to discuss the novels of Jane Austen.  They are Jocelyn, the founder of the club, an uptight middle-aged Rhodesian Ridgeback breeder; Sylvia, whose 30-year marriage has just ended in divorce; her daughter Allegra, a beautiful lesbian with a history of bad relationships; Bernadette, a spunky old lady with a string of high-profile ex-husbands; Prudie, a reserved French teacher who compulsively switches languages in the middle of conversation; and Grigg, the only man, a science fiction reader who's new to the area, and new to Jane Austen.  Each chapter of the book represents one month, in which the book club meets to discuss one of Austen's novels at the home of the person who likes that novel best.  In each chapter, then, we learn not only about one of Jane Austen's novels, but about one of the members of the book club who that novel reflects in some way. <br /> <br />You don't have to be a Jane Austen fan to enjoy THE JANE AUSTEN BOOK CLUB, because it's more of a character study than a study of the novels themselves.  Not really a plot-driven work, the novel focuses on the somewhat ordinary lives of the characters--the loves and losses they experience during a six-month period, the ways they interact with and learn from each other, how they interpret Austen's novels through a veil of their own experiences.  Having some familiarity with Austen's characters is recommended, however, just so the comparisons between them and the six people reading about them are easier to draw.  If you are unfamiliar with Austen's works, brief synopses of her plots and characters are available at the end of the novel. <br /> <br />I myself adore Jane Austen's books; PRIDE AND PREJUDICE is my favorite novel.  Austen is one of the only authors I can think of who has remained so popular and so compulsively readable for 2 centuries.  The issues she writes about are always fresh and relevant; her writing never stops being witty and insightful.  She has a discerning wit that few of today's authors can match.  In THE JANE AUSTEN BOOK CLUB, Fowler has succeeded in deliberately mimicking Austen's keen sense of language and witticism to produce an entertaining tribute to one of the greatest writers of any era. <br /> <br />Fowler, even when she's not mimicking Austen, is a very gifted writer.  Her characters are brilliantly developed; she reveals them layer by layer, month by month, chapter by chapter.  She also very effectively utilizes a first-person narrator that encompasses the whole book club.  My favorite chapter is Chapter 5, \\"in which we read PRIDE AND PREJUDICE and talk with Bernadette,\\" and in which so much is subtly revealed about the characters. <br /> <br />If you are a fan of Jane Austen, you'll love THE JANE AUSTEN BOOK CLUB.  If you've never read one of Austen's novels, if you've never even heard of her (are you hiding under a rock?!), then you couldn't ask for a better introduction to this author's wonderful novels and unforgettable characters than Fowler's beautiful, simple novel.	2005-08-23
US	29136933	R28JD43YLUD0GH	0743418204	418870210	In Her Shoes: A Novel	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A deft exploration of the bonds of sisterhood	The protagonists of IN HER SHOES, Maggie and Rose Feller, are sisters two years apart, and they couldn't be more different.  Rose, the older of the two, is an established lawyer at a prominent Philadelphia firm.  She is responsible, intelligent, homely, and successful--and she has a secret penchant for romance novels.  Maggie, her younger sister, is her complete opposite:  beautiful, outgoing, carefree, learning disabled, and irresponsible.  Maggie can't keep a job or an apartment for longer than a month, and she dreams of becoming a famous actress.  In fact, the only things the sisters have in common are a familial loss, a shoe size, and a dislike for their frigid stepmother, who's way too into plastic surgery.   <br /> <br />A brief summary of IN HER SHOES:  After being evicted from yet another apartment and losing yet another job, Maggie winds up at her sister's home, hoping Rose will once again bail her out.  During the weeks that Maggie stays with Rose, she steals her sister's money and shoes, and she even manages to get Rose's car impounded.  And she crosses one more unforgivable line, one that causes Rose to write Maggie off, seemingly for good.  With nowhere else to go, Maggie high-tails it to Florida, where her estranged grandmother, Ella Hirsch, lives in a \\"retirement community for active seniors.\\"  Over the course of the year that follows, Maggie develops a love for poetry and realizes she's more than just \\"a body.\\"  Rose learns to loosen up a bit and welcomes two new loves into her life (one in the form of a snuffling pug named Petunia).  Ella discovers her granddaughters, who were kept from her for so long.  And, most importantly, Maggie and Rose learn the meaning of reconciliaton.  Together, these three women will confront the tragedy in their past and look toward a future together. <br /> <br />I hesitate to call IN HER SHOES \\"chick lit.\\"  To me, chick lit is writing that is light and funny and fluffy, with shallow beautiful women as the protagonistsand happy endings where these women always get the guys they're pining for.  Don't get me wrong, I love a good chick novel as much as the next girl...I just don't think IN HER SHOES qualifies.  While Weiner's writing is funny and fresh, her story is definitely not fluff, and her characters have a ton of depth.  Maggie and Rose are eerily real characters that you really care about, and whether or not you like them (and I must admit, it took me a looong time to warm up to Maggie), you can understand their motivation and maybe even identify with their crises--especially if you have a sister (which I do). <br /> <br />IN HER SHOES, while a sentimental story of sisterly bonds, is not corny.  Weiner is a master at handling her story line, stopping her heartfelt writing short of sappy.  She successfully switches perspective in the story and intertwines the lives of three very different women with ease.  The \\"shoe\\" metaphor is poignant and well-handled, culminating in a scene near the end that caused a lump in my throat.  IN HER SHOES contains big issues, and Weiner handles them well. <br /> <br />IN HER SHOES is the first of Jennifer Weiner's books I've read, and I notice that some reviewers here like her other novels better than this one.  Well, I thoroughly enjoyed IN HER SHOES, a novel that I think fits more in the \\"contemporary women's fiction\\" category than in the \\"chick lit\\" one (no, they're not the same!).  I was uplifted by the story, and I'm eager to read the rest of Weiner's novels--and to see the film based on this one.	2005-08-18
US	29136933	R3B9SR47EU85LT	1400061601	903036312	The Year of Pleasures: A Novel	Books	4	9	12	N	N	A thoughtful story about the stages of grief...	Betta and John Nolan are soul mates.  From the moment they meet, they know they've found the one person with whom they want to be with forever.  They marry right out of college and move to a brownstone in Boston, where John becomes a child psychologist and Betta spends her days writing children's books.  Their life together is childless, but they have a loving marriage, full of exotic trips and simple moments.  They live a solitary life, one with few friends and acquaintances, a life spent totally devoted to each other.  At night, in bed, they whisper about selling their brownstone and moving to the Midwest, driving to a little town off the beaten path and living there forever.  But then, in their mid-fifties, tragedy hits their secluded sanctuary:  John is diagnosed with liver cancer, and the outlook is bleak.  Realizing that Betta will be facing a life without him, John urges her to carry out their dream of starting a new life on her own.  Where John's life ends, Betta's begins...and so does Elizabeth Berg's latest offering, THE YEAR OF PLEASURES. <br /> <br />Following her husband's last wish, Betta sells her home, puts her things in storage, and gets in the car.  She drives until she reaches Stewart, Illinois, where her enchantment with a charming frozen yogurt stand seems as good a reason as any to stay.  Betta impulsively buys a grand old house in town and sets out to begin her new life.  She's always dreamed of opening up a store just for women, filled with exotic and beautiful things:  benches trimmed with apricot-and-cream-striped Oriental lace, birdcages brimming with orchids, suede journals with pages made of parchment, unique pieces of pottery...unusual things she's collected over the years with her dream in the back of her mind.  And now, alone, a new widow, she thinks she just might do it--especially when she sees an empty storefront with a For Rent sign in the window. <br /> <br />Punctuating Betta's first months as a widow in a new place is a charming cast of characters, old friends and new neighbors and one eccentric old woman.  There's Matthew, the young man struggling with women, money, and finding himself; Delores, the spunky old realtor; Lydia, the previous owner of Betta's house who is still grieving from a loss of her own; Benny, the bright and honest 10-year-old next door; and, most importantly, there are Lorraine, Susanna, and Maddy, Betta's college friends who come back into her life after a 30-year hiatus and fit like a glove.  THE YEAR OF PLEASURES is the story of one woman, learning how to go on living after a devastating loss.  It's a story about the simple things in life, the things that really matter, like a luscious flower garden, a good cup of hot cocoa, or a cashmere blanket.  It's about words written on slips of paper in a Chinese chest, words written by Betta's husband to remind her to live each day to its fullest.  THE YEAR OF PLEASURES is about grieving, about moving on with a new purpose, and about what it must be like to have to continue living after such an important part of who you are is gone. <br /> <br />THE YEAR OF PLEASURES is about finding the beauty in the ordinary--so not a lot of excitement occurs in its pages, which may not appeal to some readers.  And, I suppose, the title is a bit misleading:  Instead of following Betta through her first year of widowhood, the novel only encompasses a few months.  Perhaps it is a bit unrealistic that Betta decides to leave Boston immediately, waiting only a few weeks to put her house on the market and move.  Perhaps it is unlikely that John was as perfect as he is described (although it certainly gives us women hope).  But these are merely minor flaws in a lyrical, simple, and poignant novel.  More than anything else, THE YEAR OF PLEASURES is a gentle and thoughtful tribute to the everyday workings of life, a soliloquy about what it means to begin again.  Berg's attention to detail and her command of poetic prose, as well as her likable, realistic characters, make THE YEAR OF PLEASURES a must-read for readers of contemporary women's fiction.	2005-08-16
US	29136933	R30MY41RHHHVY0	0767916905	357467321	Love @ First Site: A Novel	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Charming chick lit with a serious subplot	Jess Monroe is an over-30 single woman in London who is ready to settle down.  For her thirty-fourth birthday, a mean-spirited friend buys her a membership to an online dating service, complete with a posted photograph.  Jess rather hesitantly accepts the gift, prompted by her friends to give online dating a try.  She is unhappy being single; she is unhappy in her job as a producer at a seedy morning show; she figures she has nothing to lose.  After receiving more than thirty e-mails her first day, Jess narrows the responding suitors down to three:  an attractive man who may or may not be married and who bolts in the middle of dinner, a vegetarian who spends lunch berating her for being a smoker, and a man so unattractive she pretends to be someone else to get out of the date.  Compounding her bad experiences, Jess's sister Olivia becomes unexpectedly ill, which causes Jess to reevaluate the way she's living her life--and to change the things she doesn't like about her employment and dating circumstances.    Jane Moore's LOVE @ FIRST SITE is a charming and witty look at the perils of online dating.  Moore is an entertaining writer; her narrative voice is sharp, frank, wry, and wildly funny.  In the tradition of Bridget Jones, Jess Monroe is an honest and substantial heroine, looking for love and usually striking out.  While the serious subplot of Olivia's illness is unexpected in a lighthearted piece of chick lit, it does add substance to the story and is an important part of Jess's evolution from a discontented single girl to a more mature and  self-satisfied woman.  LOVE @ FIRST SITE is what it is:  a piece of chick lit, but a refreshing and enjoyable piece.    I'm not usually into chick lit, but this is one my mom--who has had her own unbelievable experiences with online dating--picked up and recommended.  And I must say, I enjoyed this book as a relaxing piece of escapist fiction.  I only took issue with one aspect of the book:  the use of dollars instead of pounds for currency.  Jess obviously lives in London; she works for a show called Good Morning Britain, and Moore, her creator, is herself British.  The book is peppered with British slang...My point is, LOVE @ FIRST SITE obviously takes place in England, and it was published there first.  So why does Jess pay 75 DOLLARS to enter a speed-dating event?  There are other references to money as well that I just can't recall at this moment.  What, did the publishers think we Americans aren't aware of the fact that England uses a different currency than we do?  This discrepancy threw off the book's authenticity for me a bit.    Overall, though, my impression of the book was a positive one.  A lighthearted story with a serious edge, LOVE @ FIRST SITE is entertaining and brilliantly funny, a fairy tale with a modern twist.	2005-08-16
US	29136933	R3GRXD0D2SR5EP	0452272319	78968166	Foxfire: Confessions of a Girl Gang	Books	5	8	8	N	N	FOXFIRE burns & burns!	Upstate New York is a territory well-explored by Oates, and in FOXFIRE:  CONFESSIONS OF A GIRL GANG, she again triumphs in creating another highly original, compelling story about the working class section of the state.  In FOXFIRE, she tells the story of a group of teenage girls growing up during the 1950s.  There are five to begin with:  Legs Sadovsky, enigmatic founder and leader of the gang, and Maddy \\"Monkey\\" Wirtz, the gang's official recorder, among them.  They start out merely as a group of young women rebelling against authority, vandalizing property and going for joyrides in stolen cars.  But gradually, as their gang grows in numbers, the girls are driven to further acts of violence; it seems to almost become an obsession for them, and it isn't long before they're in over their heads.  Events follow that will force the girls to face the consequences of their actions--actions that will end Foxfire, their beloved girl gang, forever.   <br /> <br />At the center of this cumpulsively readable story is Maddy, Oates' narrator, who has unearthed her old Foxfire notebooks years after the end of the gang.  Maddy tells the story of the young women who shaped her teenage years feverishly, passionately, as if the story of Foxfire is one that she has no choice but to tell.  Her narrative is fluid, fragmented, and rushed, told in a distinctive voice--a voice illuminated by Maddy's lost youth, a voice desperately in love with Maddy's lost Foxfire.  Maddy's compelling narrative also nakedly reveals the character of Legs Sadovsky, Foxfire's indestructible and bold leader, a girl who, underneath layers of bravado, is just as lost as the girls she claims to protect. <br /> <br />The more JCO I read, the more convinced I become that she's a genius.  Using highly original stories and characters, Oates deconstructs big issues in her narratives.  In FOXFIRE, she touches on themes of power, social status, sexuality, and oppression--and she does it in a highly entertaining, haunting, flawless, unforgettable narrative.  FOXFIRE is a sexy story about the bonds of sisterhood and the politics of fear that leaves the reader with plenty to ponder, and in this novel, Oates is at her finest.	2005-08-12
US	29136933	R3CF4TFIC3XD1U	0446524190	719213326	Gods in Alabama	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A fresh, innovative new voice in contemporary fiction	\\"There are gods in Alabama,\\" Arlene Fleet muses in the opening sentence of Joshilyn Jackson's debut novel of the same name.  \\"I left one back there myself, back in Possett.  I kicked it under the kudzu and left it to the roaches.\\"  Ten years ago, Arlene Fleet committed a murder and subsequently found Jesus, promising Him three things:  If the body of date rapist Jim Beverly was never found, she would stop fornicating with every boy in sight, would never tell another lie, and would never return to her hometown of Possett, Alabama.  Now, ten years later, Arlene has started a new life for herself in Chicago, a life in which she's a graduate student at a prominent university and makes weekly calls (but never visits) home.  She feels she has successfully left her off-color past behind her in the Alabama kudzu...that is, until her African American boyfriend Burr gives her an ultimatum:  Take him home to visit her lily-white Southern family, or he's hitting the road.  To make matters worse, Alabama shows up on Arlene's doorstep in the form of Rose Mae Lolly, who's looking for her high school sweetheart, Jim Beverly, the football star who disappeared during their senior year.  Clearly, God has broken His end of the bargain.  It isn't long before Arlene and Burr are on their way South, where Arlene will be forced to face her past, and in the process will uncover some secrets she never knew existed. <br /> <br />I had a hard time believing I'd be disappointed in a novel blurbed by such prominent authors as Luanne Rice and Cassandra King, and I wasn't diappointed in GODS IN ALABAMA.  Arlene is a fresh, imperfect heroine backed up by a well-fleshed-out cast of characters.  Jackson's narrative voice is fresh, immediate, inventive, and alternately hilarious and touching.  The novel, which alternates chapters occurring in the past and the present, succeeds in slowly peeling away layers of the narrative until the truth is revealed in a satisfying, unexpected conclusion.  A very strong first offering. <br /> <br />However, GODS IN ALABAMA is not without its flaws.  Although some previous reviewers found Jackson's portrayal of Southerners to be humorous and on-target, I found her descriptions of Arlene's relatives to be just a bit too stereotypical (a cousin whose REAL NAME is Fat Agnes?!) and, in fact, a bit insulting.  I suppose Jackson has poetic license because she herself is from the South, but I felt she was just feeding into a stereotype that is already overwritten in contemporary Southern fiction.  Secondly, in some places, her narrative has amateurish tones (see the description of the car games Burr and Arlene play on their way to Alabama). <br /> <br />But these are just two flaws in an otherwise entertaining, engaging, innovative first novel.  Arlene is an unforgettable heroine, and I have a feeling we can expect great things from her creator.	2005-08-03
US	29136933	RK340ZGB0NWA2	0618329706	509942691	Extremely Loud and Incredibly Close	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Extremely imaginative and incredibly profound...	Oskar Schell is a nine-year-old with a business card that reads:  \\"Inventor, jewelry designer, jewelry fabricator, amateur entomologist, francophile, vegan, origamist, pacifist, percussionist, amateur astronomer, computer consultant, amateur archaeologist, collector of:  rare coins, butterflies that died natural deaths, miniature cacti, Beatles memorabilia, semiprecious stones, and other things.\\"  The hero of Jonathan Safran Foer's new novel, EXTREMELY LOUD AND INCREDIBLY CLOSE, is not a typical preteen; his vocabulary is more extensive than that of most nine-year-olds; he is mature beyond his years.  But over the past couple of years, Oskar has been forced to grow up very quickly; his father was one of the thousands of people who died on September 11, 2001, in the collapse of the Twin Towers.  Oskar, who was very close to his father, is having a hard time getting over the loss:  \\"Being with him made my brain quiet.  I didn't have to invent a thing,\\" he poignantly observes. <br /> <br />And then one day, on the top shelf of his father's closet, Oskar finds a blue vase containing an envelope.  On the envelope is written the word \\"Black,\\" and inside it is a mysterious key.  Oskar, with childlike naivete, assumes that \\"Black\\" must be a last name, so he embarks on a journey to the home of every Black in the five boroughs of New York City, determined to find the lock to which the key belongs.  During his travels, he meets a plethora of people, including a woman who hasn't left the top of the Empire State Building for more than a decade, an old man who hasn't left his apartment for years, and a man who rents a room in his grandma's apartment, who may know more about Oskar's father than Oskar is aware of.  During his journey, as Oskar gets closer and closer to finding answers, he slowly begins to confront the reality of his father's death--and finally reveals a secret of his own to the most unlikely of people.  Oskar's story is paired with the tale of his German grandparents, told as an epistolary narrative, and the two plots finally intersect at the end of the novel in a heartbreakingly profound fashion sure to cause a lump in the throats of most readers. <br /> <br />EXTREMELY LOUD AND INCREDIBLY CLOSE is intentionally post-modern.  Foer plays around with photography, illustrations, and typography; he even writes a couple of pages in numeric code.  This experimentation makes for a wildly entertaining, remarkably touching reading experience.  Oskar is an alternately amusing and heartbreaking character; his experiences are rendered with vibrant simplicity; his narrative voice is at once stunningly innocent and wise.  Foer has succeeded in portraying the events of 9/11 with just the right balance of sensitivity and humor.  EXTREMELY LOUD AND INCREDIBLY CLOSE is a luminous novel about the grief that comes with loss and the joy that comes with recovery, filled with surprising insights and wry humor.  Foer's novel, like his narrator, is inventive and surprising, and never ever boring.  I highly recommend it!	2005-07-26
US	29136933	R1IPL4MV26P8KI	0670033944	748214467	The Mermaid Chair: A Novel	Books	2	76	83	N	N	It took her HOW LONG to write this?!	Many people, myself included, were blown away by THE SECRET LIFE OF BEES, Sue Monk Kidd's first offering to the world of contemporary fiction.  Many people, myself included, had high expectations when, four years later, Kidd released her second novel, THE MERMAID CHAIR.  And what did we hopeful readers get?  A disjointed and ridiculous storyline, a thoroughly unlikable heroine, and an overdone cliche that lasts for 352 pages. <br /> <br />THE MERMAID CHAIR tells the story of Jessie Sullivan, a forty-something artist who is bored with her blase life (sound familiar yet?).  Her daughter is away at college; her husband, Hugh, a psychiatrist, is loving but busy.  On Ash Wednesday of 1988, Jessie gets a call that changes her life forever:  Her mother, a devout (almost fanatical) Catholic and a woman still grieving over the death of her husband more than thirty years ago, has cut off her finger with a carving knife, seemingly as penance for some long-ago sin.  Jessie, grateful for an excuse to leave her husband, immediately agrees to go stay with her mother on Egret Island off the coast of South Carolina and care for her during her recovery.  During the months she stays on the island, Jessie does the following:  She falls in love and has an affair with Brother Thomas (a.k.a. Whit), an \\"almost monk\\" in the monastery on Egret Island.  She reflects on her relationship with her father and learns some painful truths about the real cause of his death.  She begins to appreciate the importance of female relationships.  She learns more about the Mermaid Chair, a mystical chair at the monastery painted with mermaids and dotted with jewels, and about the myths that inspired its making.  And, of course, she gets in touch with herself, discovers who she is, and finds new inspiration to begin painting again.  Sounds wonderful, doesn't it? <br /> <br />Well, it's not.  The affair with Brother Thomas happens too quickly for me to be convinced that it's truly genuine; I just didn't buy into Kidd's \\"soul mate\\" explanation.  All the affair did was make me feel sorry for Jessie's husband, Hugh. (And a monk?  A MONK?  I mean, come ON.)  Jessie is thoroughly unlikable and selfish, a heroine just like the ones in the countless other \\"mid-life crisis\\" novels that have sprung up in popular fiction lately.  And even though Kidd spends a lot of time telling us that Jessie is discovering who she is, I don't really see a lot of growth in the character.  As for the rest of the story...Well, it's disjointed; nothing is really tied together in the end.  The truths that are revealed about Jessie's father are too long in coming, and when readers finally learn what really happened, the truth isn't all that shocking.  And while the Celtic mermaid myth is interesting, I failed to see how it connected in any way with Jessie's plight--which, I think, is what Kidd was trying (but failed) to do.  The female relationships that were so prevalent and beautifully-rendered in BEES failed to affect me at all in this book.  Kidd's story, while four years in the making, leaves a lot to be desired, and a lot to be fleshed out.  She seems to be so desperate to make her readers understand Jessie's mid-life crisis that she completely fails to connect her storylines.  (And maybe I would have felt for Jessie more, if Hugh hadn't been such a good guy.  Someone should tell Kidd:  If you want readers to be sympathetic towards an adulterer, at least make her married to Satan's spawn instead of a sweet, attentive, loving, faithful man.)  And while I love novels written in multiple perspectives, Kidd fails to utilize the technique enough to make it effective. <br /> <br />I gave the novel two stars because, while I did not enjoy THE MERMAID CHAIR, I can't deny that Kidd is a stunning writer.  (And also, I guess, for sentimental reasons, because I loved BEES so much.)  Kidd's prose is lyrical, evocative of Alice Hoffman (which is a high compliment; there's almost no author that can match Hoffman in the prose department).  Her descriptions of fictional Egret Island are stunning; her writing has a soothing, almost wave-like quality; she is clearly an expert writer.  But in THE MERMAID CHAIR, even her prose went beyond beauty and became corny at times.  I was just so disappointed in this novel! <br /> <br />But before you give me that unhelpful vote that all negative reviews get, let me try to redeem myself by giving you recommendations for much better reading: <br /> <br />If you're interested in the whole female mid-life crisis idea, try WE ARE ALL FINE HERE, by Mary Guterson. <br /> <br />If you're interested in novels written (effectively) in multiple perspectives, try SONGS OF THE HUMPBACK WHALE or MY SISTER'S KEEPER by Jodi Picoult. <br /> <br />And finally...If you're interested in prose that is always breathtaking and never corny, as well as in an author who successfully combines elements of the magical with everyday events, try anything by the prosaic master, Alice Hoffman. <br /> <br />If you're interested in a cliched story about a woman falling in love with a monk and finding herself in the process, read THE MERMAID CHAIR by Sue Monk Kidd.  But let the record show that I'm NOT recommending it!	2005-07-24
US	29136933	R109RVUAPE38II	0439784549	162568542	Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince (Book 6)	Books	5	3	7	N	N	Perhaps the most important Harry Potter installment yet...	The wizarding world is at war.  Lord Voldemort, once again risen to power and surrounded by his faithful Death Eaters, is wreaking havoc and causing a world of problems for The Order of the Phoenix.  Things are so bad, in fact, that the Minister of Magic must visit the Muggle Prime Minister to warn him of impending danger... <br /> <br />And so begins the long-awaited sixth installment of J.K. Rowling's well-loved series, HARRY POTTER AND THE HALF-BLOOD PRINCE.  I'm not going to go into a lot of plot summary, because this is a book that you'll enjoy most if you are able to be surprised.  But here are a few things to be prepared for as Harry Potter and his friends enter their sixth year at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry:  burgeoning romantic relationships; a new professor; an infuriating traitor; a mysterious textbook belonging to the \\"Half-Blood Prince\\" that makes Harry a whiz at Potions, much to Hermione's chagrin; more insight into Tom Riddle's past; and yes, the rumors are true...a shocking death that brought tears to this reader's eyes. <br /> <br />THE HALF-BLOOD PRINCE is a worthy addition to the Harry Potter series, and perhaps Rowling's most important tome to date.  In this offering, Harry and his friends have begun to grow up and face increasingly adult situations...This isn't children's literature anymore.  The books have grown progressively darker as the series continues, and THE HALF-BLOOD PRINCE is the most sinister to date.  It is in this pivotal novel that Harry begins to study his enemy and finally realizes what he must do--and becomes determined to do it.  More than just a story about witches and wizards, this installment is a tribute to friendship, loyalty, bravery, the choices we make and the actions we take, and the consequences we must accept.  While not as vivid as THE GOBLET OF FIRE or as sprawling and intricate as THE ORDER OF THE PHOENIX, HARRY POTTER AND THE HALF-BLOOD PRINCE touched me on a profound level, and it's the only novel in the series that's made me cry.  There's only one thing I resent:  the fact that I'll have to wait another two years for the conclusion of the series.  I don't know if I can stand the anticipation!	2005-07-18
US	29136933	R14B10PLAOBIIW	1400042011	983617132	An Unfinished Life	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Not a very original story, but well-told nonetheless	After the death of her husband, Jean Gilkyson spent ten years making bad decisions.  Along with her daughter Griff, she travels from Florida to Iowa and many places in between, always seeming to meet the wrong guys, men who are physically and emotionally abusive.  One morning after a particularly bad beating, when Griff is nine-and-a-half years old, Jean finally fulfills a promise she made to her daughter:  to leave current boyfriend Ray and his trailer far behind, and travel with her daughter to the ocean, where they'll start their lives over.    But nothing ever works out as planned, right?  Not far into South Dakota, Jean's car \\"spontaneously combusts,\\" leaving mother and daughter stranded.  Money is quickly running out, and Jean soon realizes there's only one place to go:  to the home of her father-in-law Einar in Ishawooa, Wyoming--the last place she wishes to be, and, as it turns out, the last place she's wanted.  AN UNFINISHED LIFE is the story of new beginnings, of lives started over: the story of Einar, 70 years old and still grieving for his lost wife and son; the story of Mitch, Einar's Korean War buddy who was gruesomely mauled by a bear and is badly scarred, but is still \\"so happy inside\\"; the story of Griff, who steals the hearts of both of the old men; and the story of Jean, who gets another chance at happiness with the young town sheriff--which works in her favor when Ray comes to town looking for her.    AN UNFINISHED LIFE, Spragg's second novel, is sentimental but not sappy.  His characters are finely-wrought, exquisitely human, and endlessly surprising.  Griff is a mature nine-year-old with an insatiable curiosity about the way the world works; Jean is resigned and renewed at the same time; Einar and Mitch are precocious old men, set in their ways but so tender-hearted I was truly touched.  In this, Spragg is genious:  His characters are incredible.  His descriptions of the West are expertly written and, as a previous reviewer mentioned, are Steinbeck-esque.  His prose, while simplistic and sparse, succeeds in conveying beauty, grace, and humanity.  Although not a lot of action happens in the book, there are some serious breakthroughs in the lives of Spragg's characters that make AN UNFINISHED LIFE worth reading.    My one criticism of the book:  There's a little bit too much Kent Haruf in Spragg's narrative.  I know, Haruf was Spragg's mentor...but in many ways, Einar and Mitch reminded me too much of the elderly brothers in PLAINSONG.  Don't get me wrong, I love Haruf, but it's undeniable that Spragg is covering some already well-explored territory.  However, despite a too-familiar story, AN UNFINISHED LIFE is still a success, saved by is brilliantly-rendered and thoroughly unforgettable characters.	2005-07-11
US	29136933	R2J7CDCD6COS2F	039915230X	903579325	We Are All Fine Here	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A refreshing, tell-it-like-it-is heroine makes this little book a real charmer!	Julia is nearing 40 and is discontented with her life.  She works part-time with problem junior high kids and has a \\"completely and utterly fine husband\\" who has a crush on his youthful coworker and a 15-year-old son who is quickly becoming more and more distant.  And she can't forget about her first love, Ray, the college sweetheart who has consistently disappointed her for half her life.  So when Ray calls and invites Julia to go with him to the wedding of mutual friends, she figures, \\"What the hell.\\"  At the wedding, one things leads to another, and Julia finds herself perched on the sink in the bride's parents' bathroom, engaged in an impromptu tryst with Ray.  A couple of weeks later, she realizes she's pregnant...and, wouldn't you know, she's also recently had a rare sexual encounter with her husband, so she's not sure who the baby's father is. <br /> <br />It's hard to believe that Mary Guterson is the sister of David, author of uber-serious novels like SNOW FALLING ON CEDARS.  This novel is a rollicking read, laugh-out-loud funny and brutally honest and surprisingly poignant.  Guterson's Julia is a refreshing, tell-it-like-it-is heroine who voices the things that no one else dares say:  \\"Isn't that every woman's fantasy?  That her husband would die and leave her everything and she wouldn't have to live with him forever and put up with doing his laundry and dealing with his parents?\\"  Hilarious, outrageous moments are coupled with understated moments of tenderness and kindness, made all the more endearing by their heartbreaking honesty.  WE ARE ALL FINE HERE is a cuttingly funny, nakedly truthful, cunning, witty, wry, fresh, inventive, and irreverent look at motherhood, marriage, and friendship that can be summed up in one of the novel's wonderfully ironic statements:  \\"We are all fine and hope to hear the same from you.\\"  Written in minimalist prose, WE ARE ALL FINE HERE is a refreshing debut full of surprising insights and sweet moments, one that seeks to get below the \\"happily ever after\\" myth and explore the real workings of contemporary marriage.	2005-07-09
US	29136933	RW5S87U6YOHL1	0743255399	546740642	Speak Softly, She Can Hear: A Novel	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Starts with a bang, but fizzles quickly	It is 1965, and 16-year-old Carole Mason and her friend Naomi are desperate to lose their virginity.  Under the guise of spending a week skiing with other students their age, they concoct a plan to travel to Stowe, Vermont, where Eddie Lindbaeck, \\"the chosen one,\\" a gorgeous, dangerous, prep-school drop-out, is waiting in a secluded cabin to make their dreams come true.  After an excessive combination of alcohol and sex, a strange woman whom Eddie knows arrives at the door of the cabin.  One thing leads to another; the alcohol continues, the sex continues...And all Carole really remembers about the night is that the stranger somehow ends up dead.  Eddie convinces Carole that she accidentally broke the strager's neck and is therefore responsible for her death, and encourages her to help him and Naomi bury the body in the snow behind the cabin.  Thus, a secret is born between the three friends, and SPEAK SOFTLY, SHE CAN HEAR, the debut novel by Pam Lewis, begins. <br /> <br />It isn't long before Carole learns some things:  that the relationship between Eddie and Naomi is more intimate than she originally thought; and that the two of them, united, will use the secret as a form of bribery to make Carole's life a living hell.  Over the years, Eddie forces Carole to give him money and stolen presents and even seduces her mother.  Carole is desperate to escape Eddie and Naomi, but somehow they always seem to find her.  So she runs, leaving college and heading to Manhattan to work as a waitress, then going to San Francisco at the height of the hippie movement, and later ending up in Vermont, back where it all started.  And eleven years later, the truth about the woman's death unexpectedly begins to rise to the surface, leading to a final confrontation that will test Carole's very ability to survive. <br /> <br />I was initially drawn to SPEAK SOFTLY, SHE CAN HEAR because of the cover (I know the old adage, but still, I found the jacket compelling).  And at first, I thoughtthe book was going to live up to everything the cover promised.  The first chapter  is pulse-pounding, fast-paced, and absolutely electric, setting high expectations.  But the rest of the book, while undeniably well-written, just seems to lose Chapter 1's spark.  Carole Mason's life is an endless spool of looking over her shoulder, dwelling on the past, and worrying about the future.  She doesn't really grow in any way, and character-growth is something I enjoy and come to expect when reading a character-driven novel such as this one.  Not just that, but these characters are exceedingly one-dimensional, more like caricatures than real people, which, needless to say, did not inspire sympathy for their plights.  The climax was, well, anticlimactic, and the story wasn't all that original.  I didn't find the book suspenseful, as some other readers did, nor did I really find anything of value to take away from my reading.  It gets three stars for decent writing...and that's probably being generous. <br /> <br />If you're going to read it, get it from the library.  I guess it really is true; you can't judge a book by its cover.  A clever jacket does not a good book make. <br />	2005-07-09
US	29136933	R1L52M9SYWZE2D	0060722282	265537154	The Falls: A Novel	Books	5	3	5	N	N	A lyrical, hypnotic, and exquisite tale by one of America's most talented writers	The year is 1950, and newlyweds Gilbert and Ariah Erskine are honeymooning at Niagara Falls.  The morning after their wedding, Ariah wakes up in bed alone...and soon finds a farewell note scrawled on a piece of dusky pink hotel stationary:  \\"Ariah sorry--I cant--By this I free us both of our vows.\\"  It's not long before authorities learn that a man who threw himself into the Falls early that morning is Ariah's husband, and for seven days, Ariah keeps a vigil by the shores of the Niagara River, waiting with rescue workers for the river to return Gilbert's bloated, rotten corpse to her.  During this time she becomes known as \\"The Widow Bride of the Falls,\\" and local lawyer Dirk Burnaby, a pillar of the community, becomes almost instantly captivated by her.  Little more than a month later, the couple, instantly and desperately in love, are married in a small ceremony. <br /> <br />So begins THE FALLS, another edition to the impressive Oates repertoire.  Set in Niagara Falls, New York, THE FALLS is an epic novel spanning three decades.  It is at once a family drama, a political commentary, and an unmatchable example of lyrical prose at its finest.  THE FALLS chronicles the life of Ariah and Dirk, and the three children that result from their union, and the perfect life the Burnaby family leads...until 1962, that is.   <br /> <br />In 1962, Dirk meets Nina Olshaker, a desperate woman with everything to lose.  Nina lives in the Love Canal section of the city, a place where the irresponsible disposal of toxic waste has caused numerous illnesses and disorders in the citizens of the community.  Nina, who lost one child to leukemia and has another that is ailing, is desperate for a lawyer to take her case as she attempts to sue the city of Niagara Falls and the chemical companies responsible for the waste disposal.  Although their relationship never becomes physical, Dirk becomes undeniably obsessed with Nina and with trying to help her, taking on her case pro bono and putting up money from his own savings account to help her.  Ultimately, Dirk destroys his career and his marriage on his quest to obtain justice for Nina.  THE FALLS is the story of one family, and of the tragedies that befall them, and of the loves and losses they experience that lead them, ultimately, to their redemption. <br /> <br />When I got married a year ago, my husband and I also went to Niagara Falls on our honeymoon, but we stayed on the Canadian side.  As I was reading THE FALLS, I kept thinking to myself, \\"This is the perfect setting for this story.\\"  I remember standing by the wrought-iron and stone fence at the edge of the rushing Niagara River, the water pounding in my veins, The Falls like a miracle before me.  It was absolutely mesmerizing, ethereal, almost, to be standing there, and the fragility of human life was so apparent to me at that moment.  One misstep, one slip...and it could be gone.  So in reading THE FALLS, I completely understood what Oates meant when she wrote, \\"Here, your veins, arteries, the minute precision and perfection of your nerves will be unstrung in an instant.\\"   <br /> <br />THE FALLS is mysterious, hypnotic, otherworldly in its beauty.  The character exploration is brilliant; Ariah is a truly amazing creation, a character like none other I've ever read.  Bits of Niagara Falls history are ingeniously woven into the narrative; JCO's novel is fictional, yes, but fact is interlaced effortlessly.  Yes, there are some unanswered questions remaining at the end of the novel, but the ambiguity is part of the allure of the prose.  Does the Burnaby family ultimately find peace?  This reader isn't sure, but one thing is certain:  Joyce Carol Oates is a master of words, one of America's foremost novelists, whose books will be read and praised far into the future...and in THE FALLS, she's at her best. <br /> <br />I'm just glad my husband chose to stick it out with me! :) <br />	2005-07-07
US	29136933	RLNU3LLVKJOI9	0525948740	864602598	The Innocent	Books	4	0	1	N	N	A complex and sophisticated story with one too many twists...	Nine years ago, Matt Hunter innocently tried to break up a fight--and became a killer.  Now, after serving his time in a state prison, he is an ex-con who takes nothing in life for granted.  He's married to a beautiful woman, Olivia, and they are expecting their first child and are closing on a house in the suburbs.  Everything is perfect...until Matt receives a shocking picture and video from Olivia's cell phone.  In quick succession, three murders are committed; and for Loren Muse, county homicide investigator, all evidence points to the ex-con-in-residence: Matt Hunter.  Once again, Matt finds himself in a position where he must prove his innocence...<br /><br />I wanted to give Harlan Coben's THE INNOCENT 5 stars.  I really did.  There were a lot of things I liked about the book.  The characters were well-developed and likable.  The pages just flew by for me.  Coben's intricate, sophisticated style of alternating between intertwined parts of the same story gave THE INNOCENT a quick, thrilling pace; the storyline was intelligently complex but never complicated.  I enjoyed the pop culture references in the narrative; and I applaud Coben for his unique approach in this sprawling novel that travels from urban New Jersey to the strip clubs of Reno, Nevada.<br /><br />And while I can appreciate a good twist that makes you gasp out loud at the end of a novel, I do believe there is such a thing as having *too many* surprises--and, in my opinion, this novel does.  The incredible coincidences that occur in the final few chapters are almost laughable and entirely unbelievable.  While the rest of the novel was very well-written and, as I already mentioned, incredibly intricate, the ending just seemed amateurish and contrived and, well, thrown together.  Coben tried too hard to wrap everything up all nice and neat--and, in so doing, ruined the whole effect of the book for me.  But I still can't give this less than 4 stars...I really enjoyed the rest of the book--I just wish the ending would have been more thought-out.ish the ending would have been more thought-out.	2005-06-25
US	29136933	R1HZFQ7JDTRBMU	0060987529	558936324	Confessions of an Ugly Stepsister	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Maguire's got something here...	Although CONFESSIONS OF AN UGLY STEPSISTER is the first Gregory Maguire tale I've read, I am well aware of the praise his other works--WICKED, in particular--have garnered.  Before reading it, I knew that CONFESSIONS was a retelling of the Cinderella story, told from the point-of-view of one of the stepsisters, so I *thought* I knew what to expect.  What I received when I began the narrative was much more than I expected:  a beautifully written, surprisingly poignant, and clever story, one that is not just a fairy tale, but a serious historical novel entertwined with elements of magic.  <br /> <br />CONFESSIONS introduces an unlikely heroine, Iris, the plain but intelligent protagonist who flees England with her mother, Margarethe, and her mentally handicapped sister Ruth.  Upon arriving in Holland, Margarethe and her daughters search for work, eventually taking up residence in the home of an aspiring young painter.  Later, when this painter is commissioned to paint a portrait of a rich tulip-trader's daughter, Margarethe jumps at the opportunity to improve her lot, and it isn't long before she and her two daughters have a place in the lavish home of the tulip-trader, van den Meer.  <br /> <br />Van den Meer's only daughter, Clara, is ethereally beautiful, if a little spoiled.  When Clara's pregnant mother dies--under \\"mysterious circumstances\\"--Margarethe, thinking only of self-preservation, marries Clara's father and begins the life of luxury she feels she's earned.  <br /> <br />The rest is a story we're somewhat familiar with:  Clara, unable to endure her stepmother, retreats to the kitchen hearth, shovelling ashes and working like a slave day in and day out.  Soon an invitation comes for a ball, and our \\"Cinderella\\" attends...and the rest is history.  But what's interesting is that we see the whole story from the \\"wicked\\" stepsister's perspective.  Iris is an engaging character, thoroughly human, compulsively likable, and sympathetic.  Through Iris's eyes, we see the *true* story:  that Ruth idolizes Clara, that Iris herself conspires to assist Clara in attending the ball, that, while both sisters are jealous of Clara's unmatchable beauty, they would never wish any harm on their beloved stepsister.  It is their mother, Margarethe, who does all in her power to hurt and anger Clara. <br /> <br />So no, this isn't the Disney-fied version of the tale, by any means.  There are no dancing mice singing \\"Cinderelly, Cinderelly\\"; there are no fairy godmothers or pumpkin coaches or, even, happily-ever-afters.  CONFESSIONS, while on the surface a mere retelling of Cinderella, is much more:  a deftly layered novel with complex characters, a study in contrasts (wealth and poverty, beauty and homeliness), a meditation on the human condition: \\"In the lives of children, pumpkins can turn into coaches, mice and rats into human beings. When we grow up, we learn that it's far more common for human beings to turn into rats,\\" says the narrator in the prologue.  Set against the backdrop of 17th-century Holland, CONFESSIONS is an authentic historical novel, and at the same time a whimsical fairy tale.  While the plot drags in some areas, the novel is still a creative, effective take on a classic tale...I'm definitely going to go out and read the rest of Maguire's \\"fairy <br />tale\\" novels now!	2005-06-21
US	29136933	R11MM6DJ51RAE8	0451188462	562576523	Desperation	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A battle between Good and Evil in the Nevada desert...	Central Nevada is an area of isolated little towns, surrounded by desert and plagued with sandstorms and severe heat.  Desperation, Nevada, is one such town, a small mining community off Highway 50, \\"the loneliest highway in America.\\"  One sunny afternoon, a group of travellers, strangers to each other, all from different areas of the country, are stopped on the side of Highway 50 by the same hulking, fair-skinned police officer.  This cop, citing various reasons for doing so, takes the travellers to the police station in Desperation--where they quickly learn that all authority in this small town has been abandoned in favor of a much more dangerous, ancient ruler, one who speaks \\"the language of the unformed\\"...Tak. <br /> <br />Stephen King's DESPERATION is an atypical \\"good vs. evil\\" novel, and is one of his most unique storylines to date.  This novel, really, is about faith more than anything else--with the expected blood-guts-n-gore that is King's trademark mixed in, of course.  God--personified in a Christ-like 11-year-old named David--does battle with Tak, the ancient evil of the earth, a being that is older than time that inhabits the world by possessing the bodies of humans and \\"low\\" animals like coyotes, scorpions, rats, and snakes.  But King's God is not the forgiving, merciful God of Christian belief; He is the avenging, cruel God of the Bible's Old Testament.  One of the recurring statements in the book is \\"God is cruel.\\"  David's faith in God is put to the test in DESPERATION, and he suffers the ultimate sacrifice (think the Book of Job) as his devotion is tested.  But nevertheless, God is behind the group as they bravely decide to silence Tak once and for all, whispering directions to them in their heads. <br /> <br />The characters are formulaic, typical King protagonists:  the child wise beyond his years, the \\"old timer,\\" the middle-aged smart-aleck who always has a sarcastic retort or one-liner to spout off (in this book, Johnny Marinville, who reminded me immensely of Eddie Dean of the Dark Tower series).  But if the characters are cookie-cutter, the story is definitely a departure for King.  One of the few King novels that doesn't take place in New England, DESPERATION is a roller-coaster ride of narrative twists and turns, surprisingly poignant insights, vintage King gore, and truly creepy prose (just wait till you hear the \\"language of the unformed\\"; it's so creepy!).  This novel, like many of King's others, has a Dark Tower connection--but it is also an unforgettable stand-alone novel that is, in my opinion, one of King's scariest.	2005-06-19
US	29136933	R10XRQW3U030OS	0374125120	139244607	The Coast of Akron: A Novel	Books	4	8	9	N	N	A peculiar, intelligent, and compelling debut	THE COAST OF AKRON, the debut novel by Esquire literary editor Adrienne Miller, is the story of the Haven family of Akron, Ohio.  Jenny Meatyard meets Lowell Haven in London in 1976 and falls in love with him almost immediately.  Both painters by profession, the two young adults unify themselves against the world--shutting out everyone from Jenny's best friend, Fergus, to their daughter, Merit.  But it is Fergus who, upon their return to America, offers Jenny and Lowell--\\"Jewell,\\" he calls them--and their young daughter a home, in his sprawling Akron mansion, an estate named On Ne Peut Pas Vivre Seul (French for 'One Cannot Live Alone').  It is not long before Fergus offers Lowell more than just his home and, upon learning of her husband's affair with her best friend, Jenny takes Merit and moves out in disgust.  But there is still something between Lowell and Jenny:  not love, necessarily, but a shocking secret that, if uncovered, would ruin Lowell, the man who has made himself famous--and very rich to boot--with multitudes of Warholian \\"self-portraits.\\" <br /> <br />Years later, Merit is an adult, practically estranged from her family.  She has married a good, if anal-retentive, man named Wyatt, and has accepted his 13-year-old daughter Caroline as her own.  But there's one problem:  She just can't seem to be faithful to her husband, and has \\"slipped\\" three times in the course of her seven-year marriage.  Lowell and Fergus are together only in the sense that they share a home, and Lowell, an aging wanna-be aristocrat, flaunts relationships with both men and women under pitiable Fergus's nose.  Lowell mysteriously stopped painting five years ago--the world wonders why--and has virtually no contact with his ex-wife, who is now a destroyed middle-aged woman, eaten up by her secret.  But everything is coming to a head; years of lies are about to be unraveled, and THE COAST OF AKRON takes readers on a journey to truth culminating in a bizarre costume party at On Ne PeutPas Vivre Seul. <br /> <br />Miller's deft ability to create complicated characters is apparent in her debut novel.  She plays with perspective, weaving a series of lies and deceptions into three different narrative voices.  The style of the novel is unquestionabley unique; I found myself constantly having to try and \\"decode\\" the narrative to find out what the real truth was.  Miller is clearly a remarkable writer; her novel is sprawling, confident, satiric, intelligent, incredibly humorous, and unique. She tackles big themes in THE COAST OF AKRON:  familial dysfunction, betrayal and deception, beauty, what it means to be an \\"artist\\" in today's culture, what it means to be a \\"celebrity\\" in today's culture.  Miller, herself a journalist, also seems to be making some interesting comments about that particular profession.  It's a risky--and pretty successful--first offering. <br /> <br />But the ending left much to be desired--at least for me personally.  I'm all for open endings, but the end of THE COAST OF AKRON was too abrupt; it just left me too confused, with too many questions.  Not one issue is resolved by the end of the book--not one.  However, although this bothered me quite a bit...it still made sense.  In a family as dysfunctional as the Havens', it's easy to see how the conflicts are still raging, and a nice \\"let's-wrap-it-up\\" ending would seem inauthentic in such a family.  Perhaps the confusion readers are bound to feel at the end of the novel is meant to mirror the confusion felt by the Haven family concerning their present situation?  I don't know.  I'm puzzled. <br /> <br />But despite my confusion over the ending of the novel, I liked THE COAST OF AKRON.  Being from Ohio myself, it was neat to see references to things that are familiar to me in the text, from Interstate 271 to the Cleveland Indians to Cedar Point.  It's a solid novel overall--a solid story, solidly written, with deftly-developed sympathetic characters and a refreshingly peculiar narrative voice.  And it's intelligently comedic.  I'll look forward to reading Miller's next novel.	2005-06-15
US	29136933	R16ZQ4AZ1SLLVP	0345464974	9812878	A Parchment of Leaves (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	"To just be--that's the most noble thing of all"	\\"I had always found comfort in leaves, in their silence.  They were like a parchment that holds words of wisdom,\\" says Vine, the protagonist of Silas House's 2002 novel A PARCHMENT OF LEAVES.  In the early 1900s, in the midst of WWI, Vine is a young Cherokee woman growing up with her family in Redbud Camp, a Native American settlement in the Appalachian Mountains in Kentucky.  Rumors throughout the area posit Vine as a witch, a mystical woman who can kill with her beauty and make snakes dance at her command.  These whisperings keep outsiders away from Redbud Camp--until one day, a brave young Irishman named Saul Sullivan and his younger brother, Aaron, march fearlessly up the mountain.  After Aaron is bitten by a snake on the mountain, and Vine saves him, an immediate connection between herself and Saul is forged.  Soon after, they are married, and she moves down the mountain, away from her family and into a world she doesn't know, taking with her only a yearling redbud tree to remind her of home. <br /> <br />Saul's mother, Esme, welcomes Vine unquestioningly--as do her surrounding neighbors, including Serena, a midwife who becomes a fast friend.  But Vine struggles with missing her family; even the daughter she births, Birdie, cannot fill the void left by her family's absence.  When the lumber company Saul works for sends him to another county to chop down trees to help with the war effort, Vine's loneliness deepens. <br /> <br />Adding to Vine's unease is Aaron's growing obsession with her, a fixation so overpowering that it leads him to marry a woman named Aidia whose resemblance to Vine is eerie.  Aaron's brooding desperation for Vine culminates in one frightful night that unequivocally changes Vine's life forever and leads to the theme that is central to House's novel:  forgiveness. <br /> <br />A PARCHMENT OF LEAVES, while somewhat light on plot, is nevertheless a vibrant novel.  House is a master storyteller; his prose is forthright and gentle, fierce and flowing.  A PARCHMENT OF LEAVES is a doorway into another time and place:  Appalachia in 1917, a time when technology battles with the old ways daily; a place relunctantly embracing the present while at the same time trying desperately to hold onto the past.  House's characters thrum with life; his descriptions of the Kentucky mountains sing with beauty and nobility.  In A PARCHMENT OF LEAVES, House takes readers into a lost world of proud, strong people, whose faith and capacity for forgiveness is severely tested over and over again.  It is a haunting, lovely, old-fashioned little novel, and one definitely worth reading. <br /> <br />	2005-06-11
US	29136933	R37Q1LY6GUJ4GR	1400062314	9571448	Prep: A Novel	Books	3	6	7	N	N	I'm ambivalent...	PREP, the debut novel by Curtis Sittenfeld, chronicles the life of Lee Fiora, native of South Bend, Indiana, during the four years she spends at Ault, a prestigious boarding school in Boston, on the East Coast.  Because Lee is a scholarship student--a fact which is obvious to her classmates--she doesn't quite fit in with the children of oil tycoons and senators.  During her four years at Ault, Lee experiences things that are typical of most high school girls:  a crush on the most popular boy in school, friendships made and broken, problems with teachers and grades, feelings of inferiority and displaced anger, a separation from parents...in a nutshell, Lee comes of age (and most of us know how difficult that is).  Lee has no characteristics that distinguish her from her classmates; she sees herself as boring and periphery.  Her emotions are heightened; small words and actions become heightened, too, so Lee is prone to overanalyzing everything:  \\"I felt strongly about everything--not just my interactions with people, their posture or their inflections, but also the physical world, the smell of the wind, the overhead lights in the math wing, the precise volume of the radio in the bathroom if it was playing while I brushed my teeth.  Everything in the world I liked or disliked, wanted more or less of, wanted to end or continue.\\"  PREP, written from a first-person point-of-view, chronicles Lee's long, difficult journey to self-discovery. <br /> <br />So, did I like the book?  I've put off writing this review for two days, trying to answer that question.  Although some reviewers here seem to have found Lee shallow, self-absorbed, and monotonously whiny, I'm not sure how inaccurate Sittenfeld's portrayal of teenage girls is.  I found Lee to be a very real character, someone I alternately rooted for and swore at.  Her trials, yes, seem petty--but I remember being a teenager, thinking that my life would be over if my crush didn't look at me in geometry.  I remember feelingsof inadequacy; I recall being embarrassed by something my parents said or did in front of my friends.  These, I think--correct me if I'm wrong--are universal feelings, and Sittenfeld does a brilliant job of honing in on life in a teenage girl's skin. So, if this is the measure by which I should judge the book--I liked it. <br /> <br />But, on the other hand, these same praises of the novel are also its faults.  PREP is what it is--a coming of age story--and not much else.  The plot meanders, often skipping back and forth in time junctures that confused me.  Nothing really HAPPENS to Lee in the book, other than that she grows up, and maybe learns a little bit about herself along the way.  There is no climax; there is no real POINT to the book.  Yes, maybe more sensitive readers could see it as a social commentary on class differences--but I just saw it as a testimony to adolescent angst.  Lee would have experienced the things she did anywhere, in a run-down public school or in an expensive boarding academy--it's just part of growing up. <br /> <br />What kept me reading--besides a mild curiosity to know how Lee was going to turn out--was Sittenfeld's absolutely stunning narrative voice.  The prose in this book is truly special, and some of Sittenfeld's observations are so simply written but yet are so profound.  The writing was seamless.  I'll be curious to see what she writes next--hopefully something with a little more plot and a little less teen drama.	2005-06-06
US	29136933	R1VAMNVZKRU096	0060596708	799028997	Liberating Paris: A Novel	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Welcome to Paris...	...Arkansas, that is, the town in which this debut novel by Linda Bloodworth Thomason, LIBERATING PARIS, takes place.  I had high hopes for this novel after hearing that its author was the creator of the wildly popular TV show \\"Designing Women,\\" and I was not disappointed after reading it.  LIBERATING PARIS fulfilled all my expectations of a good Southern read--and even surpassed them. <br /> <br />LIBERATING PARIS chronicles the story of six friends and the various crises, tragedies, and blessings that befall them during one year of their lives.  There is Wood, the town doctor trying desperately to fill his father's shoes, and his wife Milan, who is trying desperately to overcome her less-than-perfect past.  There is Brundidge, who runs his own beverage-delivery company, is raising his two young daughters on his own, dresses impeccably in designers like Michael Kors, and enjoys pestering big-city journalists who look down on Southerners.  There is Carl Jeter, who has been a paraplegic since he was seventeen and is now a poet living in an assisted living center.  There is Mavis, an overweight baker with a tough exterior--made even tougher by the hormone pills she's taking while she looks for a sperm donor to father the child for which she hopes.  And there's Duff, the sixth and exiled member of the group, Wood's high school love who now lives two hours away.  But fate is cruel, and Wood's unhappy marriage is about to be tested by Duff's reentrance into his life.  His daughter, Elizabeth, brings home the news that she has met a boy at college whom she wants to marry--a boy who just happens to be Duff's son.  The old feelings between the two are still there, and Duff and Wood embark on a careless, passionate affair, one that has consequences for the whole group of friends.  The decomposition of the group is mirrored in the slow wasting away of Paris's Main Street, where businesses once thrived but have now been forced into submission by Fed-Mart, a new one-stop-shopping super store that has opened by the interstate. <br /> <br />How well do we really know the person we lie next to at night?  Have we made assumptions about him or her that are dangerously unjustified?  Just how much are we willing to forgive?  These are just some of the questions that Thomason addresses in LIBERATING PARIS.  Her prose is perceptive and her characters are intriguing; her narrative is always funny--sometimes gently so, and at other times slap-your-knees, laugh-out-loud hilarious.  The brilliantly-realized characters are unforgettable and incredibly unique; the six main protagonists are supported by a cast of townspeople who are written with equal sensitivity.  Other than the fact that the ending is just a little too neat and agenda-ladden for my tastes, I enjoyed LIBERATING PARIS tremendously.  It is a charming, richly Southern story of love's ability to conquer all.	2005-06-03
US	29136933	RZFLN2NCG7883	0446576638	294324369	Night Fall	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A fast-paced, well-researched, and compelling read	It is July 17, 1996, on Long Island.  Two lovers engaged in an illicit affair are having a secret rendezvous on a secluded beach--and, for added excitement, are recording their sexual escapades on a video tape to be watched later in the privacy of their hotel room.  At 8:31 p.m., TWA Flight 800, bound for Paris and carrying 230 passengers, explodes in mid-air.  There are no survivors.  The official report rules the accident as a result of mechanical failure--but the events caught on the couple's video tape, as well as the eyewitness accounts of more than 200 people, tell a different story:  one that includes a targeted missile colliding with the plane, causing a massive explosion that makes flames dance on the sea for hours afterward.    So begins Nelson DeMille's daring new novel NIGHT FALL.  Five years after the crash, in 2001, John Corey--ex-NYPD detective and a current member of the Federal Anti-Terrorist Task Force--attends a memorial service for the victims of TWA Flight 800 with his second wife, Kate.  Kate, who also works for the FBI and was involved in the questioning of witnesses in 1996, has always found fault with the conclusions of the FBI report regarding the TWA accident.  After the memorial ceremony that evening, she tells John top-secret details about the investigation, piquing his interest in the case.  John, as a favor to his wife, immediately sets out to find out the truth about what really happened to the Boeing 747 that met its fate thousands of feet over the Atlantic Ocean.  What he ultimately uncovers is a conspiracy among the highest echelons of national security.    I don't want to reveal too much of the plot, because I don't want to ruin it for future readers.  DeMille's new novel is fast-paced and full of surprises that keep the pages turning quickly.  NIGHT FALL is well-researched, intertwining fact and fiction effortlessly.  I'm a big fan of conspiracy theory novels a la THE DAVINCI CODE, and this novel is no exception.  DeMille is clearly a master story-teller--but I had to dock NIGHT FALL a star because the actual writing of the novel is quite mediocre.  The characters are somewhat bland; John Corey is a sarcastic tough-guy, but the reader has no sense of what motivates him and makes him this way (I understand from reading other reviews that Corey is the hero of two other DeMille novels, so maybe if I read those I would feel differently about the character).  His wife, Kate, is the perfect combination of femininity and toughness--and of course she is remarkably beautiful.  Dom Fanelli, John's ex-partner on the NYPD, seems like the stereotypical Italian cop from New York City.  The humor sometimes falls flat; the dialogue is often stilted.    It was the plot, not the prose, that made me enjoy this book so immensely.  NIGHT FALL is compelling and relentless, putting readers in a position of omniscience; we know what's coming but are powerless to stop it (and are powerless to stop reading).  DeMille's combination of fact and fiction is seamless, but, in a novel like this that is based on real events, he can only stretch the truth so far; he can't change the past.  If the end of the novel is unsatisfying to some readers, this may be why.  One last thing I had a question about, however:  Who takes a 40-minute shower?    If you enjoy novels about conspiracy theories, NIGHT FALL is a must-read.	2005-05-29
US	29136933	R3VBH0D4NCGTNE	1555534007	66355465	Peyton Place (Hardscrabble Books–Fiction of New England)	Books	5	11	11	N	Y	More than just a soap opera	When it was released in 1956, PEYTON PLACE, the debut novel by French Canadian Grace Metalious, caused quite a stir.  Since its release, \\"Peyton Place\\" has entered American vocabulary as a term for something scandalous, and after reading the novel, it's easy to see why it is still well-known by readers of all ages today. <br /> <br />The novel chronicles the goings-on in a small New England town called Peyton Place (incidentally, named for a former slave).  Peyton Place is a town of exactly 3675 individuals, where old men sit on wooden benches in front of the courthouse and the streets are all named for deciduous trees.  There are three churches--one for the Protestants, one for the Catholics, and one for the \\"fire and brimstone\\" worshippers.  Metalious' novel begins in Indian summer, with a detailed description of the town's layout--and, of course, the picture I formed of Peyton Place in my head looked a lot like those calendars you see with photographs of New England in autumn.   <br /> <br />Of course, I didn't have to read too much of the novel to realize that this was Metalious' intention, and that New England was the perfect locale for her scandalous, brave story. <br /> <br />In PEYTON PLACE, readers soon learn, things are not as perfect as they appear.  Underneath the peacefulness of the town lies a world of secret scandal.  This novel is one with many protagonists, from the noble town doctor Matthew Swain to Constance MacKenzie, a seamstress desperate to hide her shady past.  Through Metalious' omniscient narrative voice, readers are privy to a bevy of the townspeople's secrets, from the daily enemas given to Little Norman Page by his mother, to the child abuse of the worst kind occurrring in the Cross shack across town.  Metalious tackles issues in PEYTON PLACE that are still relevant today:  abortion, child abuse, physical and sexual mistreatment, alcoholism, infidelity, murder. <br /> <br />But don't let my description of the novel mislead you:  PEYTON PLACE is no soap opera on paper.  Metalious' discussions of these controversial issues are deftly rendered, sympathetically written; it is clear she was trying to do more with her tale than produce a piece of writing that was indecent for indecency's sake.  The sex scenes, for instance, are written so differently from the rest of the novel that it's obvious Metalious was making a point about the course of women's fiction in the '50s.  Her characters are a delight to discover; this novel, despite some opinions to the contrary, is actually well-written.  The novel's heartwrenching, serious discussion of issues that other novelists of the time dared not touch, as well as its social commentary that is still relevant today, will secure it a place as one of America's most groundbreaking novels far into the future.	2005-05-26
US	29136933	R3R9Z0DMRCAWON	074326178X	588592818	The Position: A Novel	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Sex in the Suburbs	Just what position (pardon the pun) should sex have in the family?  This is the question Meg Wolitzer tackles in her latest novel.  In the fall of 1975, Paul and Roz Mellow decide to write a book called 'Pleasuring:  One Couple's Journey to Fulfillment.'  The book, a surprise bestseller, features full-color photographs of Paul and Roz in various Kama Sutra style sexual positions--including one of the couple's own creation, \\"Electric Forgiveness.\\"  One rainy Saturday, the couple's four children--who range in age from six to fifteen--encounter their parents' bestseller on the top shelf of the bookcase and, curious, sit down together to see the pictoral version of what they've only heard coming from the bedroom.  So begins Wolitzer's new novel, THE POSITION. <br /> <br />Flash-forward thirty years, when the groundbreaking work of the Mellows is about to be rereleased in a special, updated edition, complete with new illustrations.  Paul and Roz have long since separated and remarried, and their children are dispersed around the country.  Holly, the oldest, has settled into late motherhood in California after separating herself from her family and spending years in a drug-induced haze.  Michael is uptight, depressed, and dissatisfied with his girlfriend, his antidepressants, and his job at a prominent technology firm.  Dashiell, a member of the Log Cabin Republicans who works as a speechwriter for a Rhode Island senatorial candidate, is diagnosed with an aggressive form of Hodgkin's Disease.  And Claudia, the youngest, is a whimsical film student at 34 with low self-esteem who still has an affinity for her troll dolls and is struggling to become an adult.  THE POSITION chronicles the complicated lives of these children, who were forever altered by that afternoon in 1975 and are now struggling with their jobs, their love lives, and the unavoidable reality that they are and always will be the children of \\"that couple who wrote the sex book.\\" <br /> <br />But this isn't a novel about sex.  And it isn't a novel about family.  It is a novel about sex within the context of a family.  It is a novel that questions how six people, growing up in the same house, can become so different from one another.  It is a novel that I absolutely loved.  I've never read anything by Wolitzer before, but if THE POSITION is any indication, the rest of her novels must be fabulous.  Her writing voice is distinctive, pure, unashamed, and incredibly witty; her observations are dead-on and her characters are developed with sensitivity and unabashedness (if that's a word).  In parts this novel reminded me of THE CORRECTIONS, by Jonathan Franzen, which is also a novel that tackles a familial theme and the ramifications of childhood in adult life.  THE POSITION is an intelligent, panoramic story about love, loss, sex, and the sustaining bonds of family, absolutely heartwrenching and laugh-out-loud funny all at once.  In parts, Wolitzer's prose is absolutely breathtaking:  \\"For children, parents aren't a two-backed beast but instead an enormous two-winged bird, each parent represented by a wing, with all the children riding on top, holding on by grabbing tufts of feathers, letting themselves be carried aloft.\\"  THE POSITION is a brave story, one that begs to be read...Read it, if not for the story, for the characters, who are some of the best I've read in a piece of contemporary fiction.   <br /> <br />This one gets my highest recommendation.	2005-05-25
US	29136933	R3IGMBUJN5JC71	0452279690	114681625	Cavedweller: A Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	"The dirt cradle, God's country and the devil's backyard"	Years ago, Delia Byrd ran away from Cayro, Georgia, hitching a ride West on a rock star's bus and leaving her abusive husband and two young daughters behind.  She started a new life in L.A., singing for a rock band called Mud Dog, falling in love with the lead singer of the band and having his child, a daughter named Cissy.  But Delia is still haunted by the memory of the daughters she left behind; and when Cissy's father dies in a fatal motorcycle accident, she packs up Cissy and their life in California, determined to return to Cayro and confront her past. <br /> <br />So begins CAVEDWELLER, Dorothy Allison's follow-up to the insanely successful BASTARD OUT OF CAROLINA.  When Delia returns home, she is immediately confronted with hostility; everyone from a waitress to her grandfather to the mother of her ex-husband to her daughters treats her with disdain.  Clint, Delia's first husband, is dying of bone cancer, and Delia strikes a deal with him to get her daughters back from their grandmother:  She'll take care of him until he dies, if he promises to sign custody of the girls over to her.  Her daughters are Amanda, the oldest, uptight and holy; DeDe, free-spirited and uncontrollable; and, of course, Cissy, the youngest, insecure, self-conscious, and full of hatred for her mother.  CAVEDWELLER chronicles the lives of these women over the course of nearly a decade, through Delia's ownership of the beauty shop, Amanda's marriage, DeDe's volatile relationships, and Cissy's increasing love of \\"spelunking,\\" exploring underground caves. <br /> <br />I enjoyed this novel quite a bit, although I found the course of the narrative to be somewhat meandering.  Often in CAVEDWELLER, Allison focuses on the lives of secondary characters--M.T., Rosemary, Tacey--rather than further developing the characters most important to the narrative.  Cissy, DeDe, Amanda, and Clint are richly realized characters; but I left the novel feeling that too much of Delia was left unexplored.  With that said, though, I thought CAVEDWELLER was a beautifully written tale of survival and the redemptive power of love and forgiveness.  The bonds of family are inescapable; and Allison deftly and expertly explores the complicated relationships among Delia and her three daughters.	2005-05-21
US	29136933	R1AJDG1ECQ5N2C	0316058599	821110903	The Ice Queen: A Novel	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Once upon a time...	\\"Be careful what you wish for,\\" says the protagonist in the opening lines of Alice Hoffman's brilliant new novel THE ICE QUEEN.  \\"I know that for a fact.  Wishes are brutal, unforgiving things.\\"  And it's true:  In the life of the narrator of Hoffman's tale, wishes have brought nothing but pain.  When she is eight years old, she wishes that she would never see her mother again--and later that evening, her mother dies in a car accident on the icy road.  Thirty years later, she has grown into a woman who has shut the rest of the world out, a recluse who hides behind her job as a reference librarian.  After moving to Florida at her brother's insistence, she wishes to be struck by lightning--and days later, a bolt of lightning shoots through her window and strikes her while she is swatting flies. <br /> <br />After being struck by lighting, her heart becomes arrhythmic.  She can sense a storm in the air, can feel electromagnetic currents riding on the wind.  She becomes colorblind, losing the ability to see red; in her eyes, fire is ice and the sunrise is frost.  She has become the Ice Queen, brittle, gray, and endlessly cold.  Her fascination with death, prevalent since her mother's accident, becomes even more pronounced; she at once fears and is captivated by the \\"ever after.\\"  This fascination leads her to \\"Lazarus\\" Jones, a local legend who was struck by lighting and was dead for 40 minutes.  When she meets him, she finds her complete opposite:  His breath ignites paper, his touch scorches.  When the two come together, fire meets ice, and they make love only in water in order to balance out the heat and chill of their bodies. <br /> <br />At the center of Hoffman's narrative is a librarian who has hidden in fairy tales and books about suicide for thirty years, whose heart finally \\"melts\\"--literally.  Hoffman's prose is the sparest I've ever read, but beautifully rendered and enchanting beyond belief.  Her characters are imperfect, incredibly human and endearing.  Your heart will break for each one of them! <br /> <br />What I love about Alice Hoffman is her ability to intertwine fantasy with reality, a fairy tale with a story about the true, hard world.  When you read a book by Alice Hoffman, what you know to be reality gets suspended for awhile, and she takes you with her on a magical ride filled with unique stories and incomparable prose.  THE ICE QUEEN is no exception; a modern fairy tale without the \\"happily ever after,\\" her latest novel is enchanting and pure, a story of passion, awakening, loss, and renewal that is expertly crafted and obsessively readable.  It's a stellar eighteenth offering; read it \\"here and now.\\"	2005-05-21
US	29136933	R1UDEZOTUO6JB6	0670033634	333083668	The Memory of Running: A Novel	Books	5	9	10	N	N	An Unforgettable Literary Hero	\\"My parents' Ford wagon hit a concrete divider on U.S. 95 outside Biddeford, Maine, in August 1990...In 1990, I weighed 279 pounds.\\"  So begins the debut novel of Ron McLarty, an award-winning actor and playwright.  THE MEMORY OF RUNNING takes us into the world of Smithson \\"Smithy\\" Ide, a 43-year-old, overweight, chain-smoking alcoholic who works in a factory in Rhode Island supervising the placement of limbs on SEAL Sam action figures.  Smithy's parents have just been in a terrible car accident; a few days later, they both die on the same day in separate hospitals.  On the day of their joint funeral, Smithy receives a letter from California, informing him that his psychologically damaged long-lost sister, Bethany, has just turned up in a Venice Beach morgue.  Mourning the loss of his entire nuclear family, Smithy sets out on a spontaneous cross-country bicycle trip, heading to California to seek closure after 25 years of questions. <br /> <br />THE MEMORY OF RUNNING chronicles Smithy's adventures across the country, from Rhode Island to California, over the course of about two months.  Following the image of his sister across mountains and deserts, Smithy travels 50 or 60 miles a day.  Along the way, he is placed in the role of hero more than once.  He leaves the cigarettes and alcohol behind, turning instead to bananas; he reflects on his past; he rekindles old relationships; he saves lives--including his own.  Most importantly, he learns to look at himself in an entirely new way--and he is endearingly surprised at what he sees.  His trip is cleansing; it's a chance to start his life anew. <br /> <br />Smithy meets a variety of characters throughout his journey, each one tenderly and completely developed by McLarty.  From Carl, the dying homosexual, to an 89-year-old woman who paints birds on sidewalks, to Chris, the needy young daycare owner, the people Smithy meets along the way are richly textured and engrossing.  McLarty's characters are sympathetic and humane.  We meet Mom and Pop and Bethany only in flashbacks, but they too seem so real.  Smithy's father, in fact, reminded me so much of how my grandfather was that it brought me to tears. <br /> <br />Smithy himself is completely unforgettable; McLarty gives voice to him with honesty and unconscious humor.  He is heartbreaking and sweet, rough-edged and luminous, flawed and completely loveable.  It's impossible not to get caught up in his adventures. <br /> <br />At one point in the novel, Smithy says, \\"...I had read until I fell asleep almost every night...and I read fast, too.  Good books that often I would hate to finish because they took me into their lives and let me out of mine, for a while anyway.\\"  THE MEMORY OF RUNNING was just such a book for me.  I read the book in one day and was completely drawn into Smithy's life--a flawed life, yes:  a life full of regret, but also a life full of beauty and redemption.  THE MEMORY OF RUNNING is a stunning debut, laugh-out-loud funny and touching, and it gets my highest recommendation.	2005-05-15
US	29136933	R1F0G7TYAPF65L	074324494X	325897921	Towelhead: A Novel	Books	4	7	8	N	N	A debut that is at once brave, intoxicating, and disturbing	Alicia Erian's debut novel, TOWELHEAD, caught my eye on the library shelf because of its blatant title.  It begins with Jasira Maroun, a 13-year-old Lebanese-Irish-American going to live with her father in Texas, having been sent there by her mother, a woman who feels threatened by and jealous of her boyfriend's interest in young Jasira. Life with her father proves to be difficult for Jasira; Rifat Maroun, a full-blooded Lebanese man, has strict rules and is prone to bouts of violent temper, which often result in Jasira being physically abused.  Since neither parent is accessible to Jasira, she hits puberty with lots of questions about the mysterious changes in her body.  Her father, who \\"hates bodies,\\" is no help, so Jasira turns to Mr. Vuoso, her neighbor, for fatherly comfort and advice.  Later, when that relationship falls apart, she seeks out Melina Hines, another neighbor, for support. The novel takes place against the backdrop of the first Gulf War, in 1991, which provides an interesting perspective within the experiences of Jasira and her father in the United States. <br /> <br />Erian's writing is simple, frank, and darkly funny.  TOWELHEAD's discussion of teen sexuality, sexual and physical abuse, and physical awakening is incredibly brave.  Jasira is a \\"nymphet\\" straight out of Nabokov, a young girl drawn against her will into what she thinks she wants.  Jasira's need for comfort and companionship is apparent, and the reader's heart breaks as she is mistreated again and again.  Erian has skillfully created characters who readers will at once vehemently dislike and sympathize with;  although you can't stand some of the characters, you will understand what motivates them--and this makes them endearing.  It's genius. <br /> <br />A warning for conservative readers:  TOWELHEAD contains \\"frank talk of a sexual nature,\\" as the television would say.  Sexual encounters--both consensual and nonconsensual--are described in great detail, as are numerous instances ofphysical abuse.  Some of the scenes actually had me blushing--and I've read a lot.  However, the forthright nature of the prose is important--after all, it's Jasira telling the story; it's her voice we're reading. <br /> <br />TOWELHEAD is a risky, heartbreaking story, expertly told.  This one will haunt you for awhile.	2005-05-13
US	29136933	RU2FV1QZ529WR	0140042598	303305496	On the Road (Penguin Orange Collection)	Books	5	2	3	N	Y	The Bohemian Odyssey that Defined a Generation	Before reading ON THE ROAD, this is what I knew about Jack Kerouac:  that he coined the term \\"Beat Generation\\"; that Allen Ginsberg, my favorite poet, was one of his close friends; and that ON THE ROAD is a thinly-veiled autobiography that was supposedly written over a period of three weeks spent in a drug-induced frenzy.  Clearly, my knowledge of Kerouac and his influence on American literature was limited before I began reading ON THE ROAD.      Kerouac, Ginsberg, William S. Burroughs, and Neal Cassady (Dean Moriarty in ON THE ROAD) were brilliant young artists in New York City in the 1950s.  In coining the term \\"Beat Generation,\\" Kerouac was describing himself and his friends, the generation of men who came of age during World War II and were unable to find their niche among businessmen and soldiers.  Although they were young and bright, they were \\"beat\\" because they lived in crummy apartments, worked odd jobs to make a buck, and traveled across the country because no one job in no one place could hold their interest for very long.  They were resigned, defeated, disappointed with life.  But they were also \\"beatific,\\" with deep spiritual convictions.  Just as Hemingway's THE SUN ALSO RISES defined the WWI generation as \\"lost,\\" Kerouac's ON THE ROAD marked the WWII generation as \\"beat,\\" an idea backed up by Allen Ginsberg in his most well-known poem, \\"Howl.\\"    ON THE ROAD chronicles the bohemian odyssey of Sal Paradise, an autobiographical protagonist who hitchhikes across the country, searching for life's answers \\"on the road.\\"  Following Dean Moriarty--based on Kerouac's real-life friend Neal Cassady--across America from 1947 to 1951, Sal lives a life free of responsibility and structure:  the life those of the Beat Generation continuously sought.  On the journey from New York to California, Sal meets a variety of people, many of them veteran hitchhikers.  Kerouac's descriptions of Sal's fellow travelers are detailed and sensitive, describing a whole segment ofsociety completely removed from the mainstream.  Montana Slim and Mississippi Gene, Slim Hazard and Eddie, are all members of the Beat Generation; they are explorers for life, with cars instead of ships.  Their love affair is with the roads of America.    What makes the novel so appealing is its relevance to today's generation of young adults.  The idea of packing up everything and traveling across the country with complete disregard for social conformity is probably still appealing to many high school graduates.  I know I myself went through a stage just after I graduated from high school when all I wanted to do was just pack up and go--and honestly, had I read this book in high school, I probably would have actually gone, armed with my graduation money and my broken-down Chevy.  The freedom of living off the land and being liberated from responsibilities, traveling with my best friends beside me, would have been very appealing to me at the time.  Now, however, from the perspective of an \\"adult,\\" Sal's journey doesn't hold that same magic for me; now, I have too many responsibilities to take off on a tour of America with only fifty bucks in my pocket. Hitching rides with strangers, opting for beer and drugs and cigarettes instead of food, and \\"making\\" with multiple partners sounds irresponsible by today's standards--but for Kerouac and his Beat Generation, it was the only reality. And this is the magic of ON THE ROAD:  The experience of reading the book can evoke a myriad of emotions--and your response to the book will depend largely upon the perspective from which you read it.    An example of Kerouac's brilliant prose:  \\"...the only people for me are the mad ones, the ones who are mad to live, mad to talk, mad to be saved, desirous of everything at the same time, the ones who never yawn or say a commonplace thing, but burn, burn, burn like fabulous yellow roman candles exploding like spiders across the stars\\" (pages 5-6).	2005-05-03
US	29136933	R2QBUVTD4K7MJ7	0679732764	691093854	Invisible Man	Books	5	2	3	N	Y	"Literary Jazz"	I have no excuse for not reading INVISIBLE MAN before my final quarter of college.  Ralph Ellison's story of racial injustice in America during the 1950s has widely been hailed as a masterpiece of American literature, a book well-received both for its treatment of controversial subject matter and for its brilliant, almost lyrical prose.  Critics have called Ellison's writing a form of \\"literary jazz,\\" a style of writing that is constantly changing and improvising, one minute slow and steady, the next fast-paced, shifting, and distorted.  Ellison makes no effort to hide his inspiration, and comparisons between Invisible Man and Dostoevsky's Underground Man, though obvious, are treated with grace and simplicity. INVISIBLE MAN, on all levels, is a relevant, important text.<br /><br />Published in 1952, at the height of the Civil Rights movement in the South, INVISIBLE MAN chronicles the story of a nameless narrator, struggling to find the truth in a world largely built on deception.  The narrator introduces himself merely as \\"an invisible man\\" who is invisible \\"simply because people refuse to see me.\\"  At the beginning of the novel, Invisible Man is living underground on the outskirts of Harlem, stealing free electricity from a monopolizing power company...symbolically, of course, the only \\"power\\" he can take from the white man.<br /><br />In the novel, Invisible Man narrates his journey from the segregated South to the cruelly beautiful North as he searches for an identity, a sense of self which he at first attempts to formulate based upon others' opinions of him.  Armed with a lesson from his dying grandfather he doesn't yet fully understand and his own perceptions of the roles of blacks and whites, Invisible Man is thrust into the bustling, harsh world of Harlem, a reality far from the Southern college (based on the Tuskegee Institute) from which he came.  Throughout his journey, Invisible Man must confront difficult questions about himself, dealing with both racial and self-identity.  Although his journey is one of hard-learned lessons about the role of African Americans in society, his story is ultimately one of self-discovery.<br /><br />With beautiful prose, simplistic brilliance, and images that are hard to read and will break your heart (for me, the Battle Royal scene especially), Ellison has written a masterpiece of fiction that unites all readers--black and white--with a story of the journey to self-discovery, something everyone must go through.  Filled with stunning imagery, subtle cultural references, and searing indictments of the racial divide, INVISIBLE MAN is an important text that begs to be interpreted.  Readers looking for an exciting read may want to skip this one--much of the novel chronicles everyday, anticlimactic events--but readers searching for a message with relevance that still resounds in today's society will be stunned when they reach INVISIBLE MAN's breathtaking final words.and self-identity.  Although his journey is one of hard-learned lessons about the role of African Americans in society, his story is ultimately one of self-discovery.<br /><br />With beautiful prose, simplistic brilliance, and images that are hard to read and will break your heart (for me, the Battle Royal scene especially), Ellison has written a masterpiece of fiction that unites all readers--black and white--with a story of the journey to self-discovery, something everyone must go through.  Filled with stunning imagery, subtle cultural references, and searing indictments of the racial divide, INVISIBLE MAN is an important text that begs to be interpreted.  Readers looking for an exciting read may want to skip this one--much of the novel chronicles everyday, anticlimactic events--but readers searching for a message with relevance that still resounds in today's society will be stunned when they reach INVISIBLE MAN's breathtaking final words.	2005-04-23
US	29136933	R2VJZ36VVTM9BJ	0743459458	332933359	Sunday's Silence: A Novel	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Luminous prose, but where's the plot?	SUNDAY'S SILENCE caught my eye at the library when I was looking for something else in the \\"N\\"s.  The novel, written by Gina B. Nahai, is a departure from her two previous books, which are both novels about her homeland of the Middle East.  What attracted me to SUNDAY'S SILENCE, when I read the book jacket, was its setting; the novel takes place in Appalachia--arguably, as far from the Middle East as one can go--and I have always been intrigued by the mysticism of that desperately poor, isolated section of our country.  SUNDAY'S SILENCE is the story of Adam and Blue, \\"star-cross'd lovers\\" who share Appalachian memories and a connection on not just a physical plane.  Having run from his past for more than 20 years, Adam returns to his childhood home near Knoxville, Tennessee, after the death of Little Sam Jenkins, the man who never admitted to being his father.  Upon investigating the circumstances of his father's death--a preacher who drank poison, danced in fire, and charmed snakes with his group of \\"Holiness,\\" cult-like followers--Adam immediately develops an attraction for Little Sam's supposed killer, Blue, a beautiful foreigner with a bevy of secrets.  What follows in Adam and Blue's illicit relationship exposes a series of fateful secrets and alarming truths that will change the course of their lives forever.    As I had hoped, the descriptions of noble Appalachia in the novel are beautiful; Nahai's prose is haunting, stunning, luminous, poetic, vibrant, unforgettable.  But I finished the novel wholly unsatisfied with what I had read.  SUNDAY'S SILENCE is far from a plot-driven text; the novel is almost completely character-driven.  Nahai spends an estimated three-fourths of the novel developing the histories of her characters and only a quarter of it discussing how these histories pertain to their current lives.  Some of her histories are about insignificant secondary characters in the text, totally detracting from the already skimpy plot of her tale.  The relationship between Blue and Adam was just not believable to me--because Nahai spends so little time discussing it, the connection between them is not firmly established.  It breaks my heart to give such a beautifully-written novel a mediocre rating--but I couldn't help but be bothered by the lack of plot development and the OVER, yet ineffective, development of Nahai's characters.	2005-04-05
US	29136933	R2L9K2SBMQL2I5	0679723161	636015448	Lolita	Books	5	9	10	N	Y	"...the flash of a nymphet's limbs..."	More than one movie has been adapted from Nabokov's LOLITA, and the book is mentioned in at least one popular song (think The Police, \\"Don't Stand So Close to Me\\").  LOLITA is a book that has been hailed and condemned by critics, and it is just that kind of novel:  the reader either loves it or hates it; there is no in between.  I just finished reading LOLITA for a class I'm taking this quarter, and I am one of those people who absolutely loved it.<br /><br />Most people who object to LOLITA object to it because of its subject matter; the novel chronicles the \\"memoirs\\" of \\"Humbert Humbert\\", an aging European obsessed with pubescent \\"nymphets\\" (sexualized young girls from the ages of 9 to 13).  Upon arriving in America, \\"H.H.\\" meets Charlotte Haze and her 12-year-old daughter Dolores, with whom he becomes immediately obsessed.  His feelings for \\"Lolita\\" are so passionate that they prompt him to marry Lo's mother so he will never have to leave the \\"light of [his] life, fire of [his] loins.\\" When Charlotte unexpectedly dies, Lolita is left in the care of her stepfather, who, unable to believe his terrific luck, takes her on a year-long cross-country trip.<br /><br />People who are critical of the book without having read it, however, will be surprised to learn the pains Humbert takes to preserve his pubescent angel's innocence.  He never intends to rape her; his plan consists of drugging Lolita and fondling her in her sleep--clearly still a reprehensible idea, but nonetheless not as vile as blatantly defiling his stepdaughter.  In actuality, it is Lolita who seduces him and begins their lengthy, illicit affair.  It is clear that Humbert is in love with Lolita--a love that unquestionably borders on obsession:  \\"Did I ever mention that her bare arm bore the 8 of vaccination?  That I loved her hopelessly?  That she was only fourteen?\\"  Thus, Humbert begins to be a sympathetic character as readers see Lolita chastising him, gamboling about with other boys, and remaining totally unresponsive to his efforts to show her affection.  I'm not saying Humbert's actions are justified--just that Nabokov has created a deeper, more textured story than many people imagine LOLITA to be.  What a gift this is, the ability to make readers sympathize with a self-professed pedophile.<br /><br />Nabokov is an absolute genius of prose.  The novel, written from Humbert's perspective as a sort of testimony, has an open, honest, unapologetic, unashamed voice.  The novel is unsettling, disturbing, tender, passionate, and surprisingly funny.  Although Nabokov was a self-professed dissenter of symbolism, it's hard not to recognize the obvious symbolism in LOLITA: clearly, Humbert represents something old-world, ultra-civilized, refined, and European, while Lolita, a little bit edgier, represents exuberant, unabashed post-war America.  Nabokov's novel chronicles the story of what happens when two such worlds meet.<br /><br />Hidden within Nabokov's prose are countless references to well-known literary names:  Keats, Joyce, Poe, Shakespeare.  Abounding in detail, LOLITA is demonstrative of the English language at its finest.  I was hooked from the first paragraph:  \\"Lolita, light of my life, fire of my loins.  My sin, my soul.  Lo-lee-ta:  the tip of the tongue taking a trip of three steps down the palate to tap, at three, on the teeth.  Lo.  Lee.  Ta.  She was Lo, plain Lo, in the morning, standing four feet ten in one sock.  She was Lola in slacks.  She was Dolly at school.  She was Dolores on the dotted line.  But in my arms she was always Lolita.\\"  Brilliant, huh?  Read on.	2005-04-03
US	29136933	R2GUBQZ5L4MEMT	0778321355	485381006	The Butterfly House (MIRA)	Books	5	56	57	N	N	Simply Beautiful	The Butterfly House tells the story of four women, drawn together--and parted--by fate.  Roberta \\"Bobbie\\" Lee is in second grade when she meets beautiful, exotic Cincy Jaines at school. The two girls quickly discover they have something in common: they are both being raised by their mothers and have absent fathers. The young girls become immediate friends, nicknaming each other Sarsparilla and Rapunzel, and Bobbie finds herself spending most of her waking hours--and many of her sleeping ones--at Rockhaven, the home of Cincy and her mother Lenora, who is a lepidopterist and raises butterflies on her sunporch.  Bobbie is quickly drawn into Lenora's exotic world, and she begins to love Lenora as if she were her own mother.  Bobbie's real mother, Ruth, is a depressed alcoholic, a confused woman who mistakes Bobbie's relationship with Lenora as something lurid and taboo.  As Cincy and Bobbie get older, their friendship gradually changes, culminating in a single night that will change the lives of all four women forever.  With the unexpected arrival of a \\"familiar\\" stranger on her doorstep, 25-year-old Roberta Dutreau is thrust back into the events of ten years ago and is forced to make some difficult decisions that could once again change the course of her life. <br /> <br />Marcia Preston tackles difficult issues in The Butterfly House, her first offering to the world of women's fiction.  With clear, startlingly honest and powerful prose, Preston paints a world of love and jealousy, betrayal and revenge, lies and truth, life and death.  The novel is a heartbreaking account of the sometimes complicated relationships between women and the importance of such connections in every woman's life.  The things we do can change us forever; the relationships we forge can change us forever; how we react in the face of our choices can change us forever.  The four women in this novel are beautifully developed and layered characters, so believable they almost seem real.  When I reached the end of this novel, I cried; it is one of those stories I know will stay with me for a long time.  Welcome to your new genre, Ms. Preston...write more, and quickly!  I would also recommend White Oleander, by Janet Fitch, for people who enjoyed this novel; that novel, too, is a powerful account of how our relationships with other women can change us.	2005-03-31
US	29136933	R3MHT08F0886M8	0452277248	366939784	Man Crazy: A Novel	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A Truly Heartbreaking Read	Man Crazy, by Joyce Carol Oates, chronicles the childhood and adolescence of Ingrid Boone, who, with her beautiful young mother Chloe, is forced to flee her normal life multiple times on account of a violent, nearly-absent but ever-present father. Set in Northern New York, in a string of towns bordering the Chautauqua River and Mountains, Man Crazy is written in Ingrid's voice--often in streams of consciousness and reflections on memories--and follows her through various events in her young life:  the vision of ghosts under a farmhouse porch; secret visits with her father; the plagiarism of a poem, recited at an assembly; the dozens of encounters with faceless men in the backs of cars; the acid trips; the initiation into a satanic cult led by enigmatic Enoch Skaggs.  Her uncertain relationship with her mother is what caused her life to take the direction it did, while at the same time it is her mother who pulls her out of her degradation; thus, the novel has a redemptive quality.  Ingrid's life is a troubled one as she looks back on it, telling her story to a counselor.  By the end of the novel, Ingrid has reformed, has turned her life around; she is the age of 21, but seems a hundred years old. <br /> <br />The voice Oates gives to Ingrid is a distinctive one; as I mentioned, the story is told in fragments of memory and streams of consciousness, often written in fragments, run-on sentences, and paragraphs that continue for pages.  Once I got used to this somewhat confusing manner of writing, I really enjoyed the way Oates uses language for the purpose of character development.  Ingrid's voice is honest, simple, and forthright, while at the same time her meanings are multi-layered; in many cases, she is saying more than she thinks she is.  Oates also uses her gift for language to paint disturbing, haunting pictures with her words: a teetering bridge, drug and sexual abuse, a decapitation, a dank basement where people are trapped, forced to eat garbage to stay alive.These images are powerful and hard to read about--but at the same time, I found myself unable to stop reading.  This novel is beautiful in its simplicity yet startling in its dimensions. <br /> <br />I was unsatisfied with the ending of the novel, however.  It seemed as though Oates was eager to give Ingrid a happy ending, but I was left wondering:  How can Ingrid possibly love anyone else, when she's just learning to love herself?  Nevertheless, I couldn't put this book down; it is a powerful, realistic portrayal of a girl who is given a new beginning after being in the lowest possible state, and it both broke my heart and made it soar.	2005-03-27
US	29136933	R3FF3VTZSHKS21	0743411366	334367554	Say When: A Novel (Berg, Elizabeth)	Books	4	19	20	N	N	A Searing Story of a Failing Marriage	Okay, I'm going to go against the overwhelmingly popular opinion of most of the other reviewers and say that I fell in love with this book on the first page--rather, I fell in love with the character of Griffin on the first page.  Elizabeth Berg's SAY WHEN chronicles the story of the marriage of Ellen and Griffin, and the affair that causes them to reevaluate their relationship.  The novel is written from Griffin's point-of-view and is a searingly honest portrait of the effects of infidelity which, as it turns out, are not wholly negative.  Throughout the course of the novel, Griffin is forced to examine his feelings and actions in regards to his wife and face tough questions:  Did he unknowingly drive her into the arms of another man?  Is there anything he could have done to prevent her affair?  Does he really even know his wife?  With her trademark humorous, sarcastic prose, Elizabeth Berg once again offers an ingenious novel that touches issues close to every human heart.    I was astonished at Berg's ability to so successfully write from the point of view of a man.  Griffin is a multi-layered, realistic character; in him, I saw some of my own husband's traits (only the good ones, of course).  He is a brilliantly-honed character that incites sympathy in the reader; likewise, Griffin and Ellen's eight-year-old daughter, Zoe, is equally realistic and sympathetic.  Zoe is intelligent, strong-willed, and incredibly observant; with her amazingly revealing dialogue, Berg deftly illustrates the true depth of Zoe's feelings.      The only character I was unable to warm up to was Ellen, Griffin's wife--which perhaps was intentional.  I found her to be unreasonably cold, selfish, and unloving.  I suppose she is a true representation of what may drive a woman to cheat, but I was constantly wondering throughout the novel why in the world Griffin continued to love her, why he even married her in the first place.  Thus, the ending of the novel--which I won't reveal--I found tobe unsatisfying and somewhat unrealistic.      But I thoroughly enjoyed this novel.  I sympathized with Griffin's plight and was amused by the sharp, strong dialogue between the characters.  I have only read one other Berg novel--but after reading this book, I will definitely read more.	2005-03-26
US	29136933	R15FVH3YYJ2IZO	0142001430	43461769	Year of Wonders: A Novel of the Plague	Books	4	3	4	N	N	A Wonder Indeed	YEAR OF WONDERS, the first novel by Geraldine Brooks, is the story of an isolated English village--based on Eyam, a real town in England--infected by an outbreak of plague in 1665 and 1666. At the encouragement of its pastor, the town decides to quarantine itself in order to stop the spread of the disease.  Throughout their year of suffering, villagers turn from medicinal remedies to witch-hunting to outlandish religious practices in hopes of ridding themselves of the disease.  By the end of the year, only a third of the town survives, including Anna, a housemaid and the narrator of Brooks' tale.    Brooks clearly did extensive research.  I enjoyed YEAR OF WONDERS for its rich historical detail, and I felt I learned a great deal about 17th century culture, medicines, language, and foods in her text.  I did take issue, however, with the fact that many of her characters seem quite modern, outspoken and corrupt, and thus I found some of them to be unrealistic for the time period about which she is writing.  I suppose, though, that in creating liberal, modern-minded characters, Brooks is attempting to make the point that humanity surpasses the bounds of time, that, for hundreds of years, human nature has remained unchanged.  The accessibility of the characters also serves to enable modern readers to sympathize with their incredible plight.    Somewhat unrealistic characters, however, is the only flaw in this beautiful, well-written novel.  For lovers of historical fiction especially, Brooks has offered an entertaining and heartbreaking, reasonably-paced, seemingly accurate read that, as the title suggests, I found to be truly wondrous.	2005-03-25
US	29136933	R1AX5CQGQEUGPU	0316781487	223736820	Light on Snow	Books	4	2	2	N	N	The Depth of "Snow"	In her latest novel, Shreve, author of THE PILOT'S WIFE, tells the story of a family torn apart by tragedy that must learn to live again.  When 12-year-old Nicky (narrating from the perspective of the 30-year-old she's become) and her father go for a routine walk in the woods behind their secluded New Hampshire home one afternoon, they find a newborn baby abandoned in the woods and their lives change forever.  With the arrival of the baby--and with the appearance of an unexpected guest in their home--Nicky, on the brink of womanhood with no mother to turn to, and her father, in the depths of grief with no wife to comfort him, are forced to reevaluate the choices they've made since the accident that took half their family (Nicky's mother and young sister) away from them.  The novel is about choices, second chances, the small things that give us hope, and learning to live again when all seems to be lost.    Nicky Dillon is an entirely believable narrator, and Shreve gives voice to her with a keen sense of life in a 12-year-old's skin.  With spare prose and realistic dialogue, Shreve expertly reveals the depths of her characters.  Nicky's yearning for motherly love is apparent; the unspeakable grief of her father is palpable.  Through a series of flashbacks, Nicky and her father's previous life is revealed--and the contrast between it and their current state serves to strengthen reader sympathy for the incredible loss experienced by the characters.  LIGHT ON SNOW is an excellent offering, expertly crafted and authentic.    My only problem with the novel is the fact that Nicky recalls and writes her story when she is 30, which seems out-of-sync with the somewhat abrupt ending. If Nicky was truly writing a memoir of sorts, it seems likely that the ending of the novel would be more solid, answering some questions that are left unaddressed:  Does Nicky's father find love again, as is suggested near the end of the novel?  What happens to the baby?  What happens to the baby's mother?  Adding to my confusion, the novel is written in the present tense; again, it seems likely that, as a 30-year-old looking back, Nicky's narrative would be written in the past tense.  Don't get me wrong, I love present tense for this novel--it gives the events happening a sense of immediacy--but the mention of Nicky being 30 threw me off a little bit.    Overall, though, I enjoyed this novel; it's one of the better Anita Shreve novels I've read.  LIGHT ON SNOW has layers of meaning and is a heartbreaking, inspiring story about learning to start over.  Defintely worth reading.	2005-03-23
US	29136933	R19EJOMMCX0YEY	0142001740	378345448	The Secret Life of Bees	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Southern Mothers	THE SECRET LIFE OF BEES is the debut novel by Sue Monk Kidd, a writer best known for her memoir, DANCE OF THE DISSIDENT DAUGHTER.  Kidd hails from South Carolina, so naturally, her novel is set in her home state.  It tells the story of Lily, a fourteen-year-old on the brink of womanhood, searching for a place in the world and the truth about the mother she lost ten years previously (who died when a gun in four-year-old Lily's own hand fired accidentally).  Lily is raised by her father T. Ray--whose punishment consists of making her kneel on grits for hours at a time--and her black nanny, Rosaleen.  When Rosaleen makes trouble with white men in town and is imprisoned, Lily sneaks her out of jail and the pair flees to Tiburon, South Carolina, a town mentioned in her mother's things.  There, they are taken in by the black \\"calendar sisters,\\" May, June, and August, and Lily is introduced to the magical world of bee-keeping--as well as to truths about herself, her mother, religion, and life itself.<br /><br />Kidd's ability to intertwine \\"the secret life of bees\\" with Lily's own secret life is ingenious.  This novel is overwhelming in its symbolism while at the same time touching in its simplicity.  Kidd writes with effortless grace, and Lily is a strong, believable narrator.  The novel discusses issues of race with an acute sensitivity to time period and location; Lily's apparent indifference to skin color is endearing.<br /><br />What will make this book beloved to generations of women to come, though, is the feminine fellowship within its pages. THE SECRET LIFE OF BEES shows that any woman, regardless of blood relation or race, can be a mother--as long as she loves her child.	2005-03-19
US	29136933	R2UIQIFJRIJ949	0380726815	777758575	Sights Unseen	Books	2	10	10	N	N	Who is Hattie Barnes??	SIGHTS UNSEEN, a short novel by Kaye Gibbons, tells the story of a woman named Maggie Barnes with bipolar disorder, told through her daughter, Hattie's, eyes.  Hattie, writing from the perspective of the woman she's become, relates the events that happened to her mother, specifically those events that took place during Hattie's twelfth year, in 1963, when Maggie, between bouts of sex-crazed mania and suicidal depression, ran into a woman with a car and was sent to Duke for electroconvulsive shock therapy that was meant \\"cure\\" her.    The strength of the novel is in Kaye Gibbons' sensitivity to the severity of manic depression and what it's like for someone who has to live with bouts of extreme joy and severe sadness.  However, if you're looking for some kind of insight from Hattie in this novel, you won't find it.  Hattie is a completely impersonal narrator; it's easy to forget that she is Maggie's daughter.  She seems so disconnected from the story and the events that are happening.  The reader gets no insight into Hattie's hopes or fears--we don't know how she feels about growing up without a reliable mother; it's almost as if Gibbons deliberately skirts Hattie's feelings in order to talk more about her mother's antics.  There is a brief suggestion that Hattie desperately desires her mother's attention, but it is not fully developed, and is therefore unbelievable.    The novel has potential--but, because of Hattie's failure as a narrator, it falls short of the goal Gibbons probably imagined it would attain.	2005-03-11
US	29136933	R3MKEKQ42ZJ441	1594480001	659516630	The Kite Runner	Books	5	6	7	N	N	There are no words...	I have read countless books in my life, at least one a week for as long as I can remember.  In that endless flow of novels, it's sometimes easy to mix up or forget plots.  After reading Hosseini's THE KITE RUNNER, though, I'm positive that this is a book I won't be forgetting for a long time.  It is, without a doubt, one of the best novels I've ever read.    THE KITE RUNNER tells the story of Amir and Hassan, unlikely friends growing up in Afghanistan in the 1970s.  Amir is the son of an affluent Afghani businessman; Hassan is the son of his father's servant.  The relationship between the two boys--and the events that result from it--spans decades and continents and years and years of guilt, fear, and, ultimately, redemption and forgiveness.  The story is delicately tied together with the Afghani tradition of kite running.    Although THE KITE RUNNER is only his first novel, Hosseini writes like a veteran with beautiful, spare prose, telling the story of his own country and the events that led to the birth of a tyrannical government.  Never were a pomegranate tree, a flying kite, a hare-lipped smile, or a city in a late stage of decomposition described more poetically.  The novel banishes stereotypes we as Americans may have about the Afghani way of life and, in a time when that country is so important to the fate of our own, paints a beautiful portrait of the people we are trying to liberate from tyranny.  Hosseini's characters are fully developed, and the novel reads autobiographically; it's not difficult at all to believe Amir's honest, forthright narrative, as he represents what lies inside us all:  desire for acceptance, feelings of unworthiness, selfishness, pride, the need to be forgiven.    What a beautiful novel--one I will not soon forget.	2005-03-07
