US	29181451	RGT52PVZLZ8WK	1400050707	722099003	The Great Psychedelic Armadillo Picnic: A "Walk" in Austin (Crown Journeys)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Delightful tour of a fantastic city	The Kinkster (Texas' next governor?) takes readers on a whirlwind tour of Austin. Anyone who has lived in Austin for a significant period of time will not find much new here. Those who have only visited might get some inkling of what makes this city unique and why millions of people all over the country consider Austin home even though the population is 600,000. This is an extremely funny journey. I can't think of a better tour guide than a man who refers to Garth Brooks as the anti-Hank	2005-10-10
US	29181451	R1WIN7C1HK1Z8V	0375727787	230548638	Goodbye to a River: A Narrative	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Unique look at a specific area and history of the Lone Star State	I was very impressed with this book. Graves does so much in this enjoyable volume. As he takes a canoe trip down the Brazos near where he grew up, he shares the history of the land--both recent and not-so-recent. Through him, we learn the reality of life for the average settler on the edge of the frontier. He also seems to be detailing a life that in his time was declining and in our age is nearly completely gone. His writing is difficult to describe and unlike anything I have ever read. It flows smoothly with a combination of regional speech and erudition. As you read you feel like you are in the canoe with an incomparable guide to this region of our state. A great book that deserves to be read much more widely than it is. <br /> <br />	2005-10-10
US	29181451	R14KDOJY7RVTBK	006073132X	150560620	Freakonomics: A Rogue Economist Explores the Hidden Side of Everything	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	A Great Deal of Fun	Levitt brings his knowledge and tools from his training as an economist to examine whatever takes his fancy. Levitt examines how statistics can identify cheating teachers and sumo wrestlers. Levitt eschews the popular approach of starting from a preconceived belief and using statistics to prove that point. Instead, Levitt wants to get at the truth no matter who it offends and there are plenty of findings to offend anyone. I am sure that Levitt's theory on why the predictions of a crime wave in the late '90s never materialized will upset everyone to some degree. I hope Levitt does more of this work and Kudos to him for reviviing interest in Stetson Kennedy. <br /> <br />	2005-10-10
US	29181451	R1IC9KQFGOD4S2	1573223077	848433369	Everything Bad Is Good for You: How Today's Popular Culture Is Actually Making Us Smarter	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Interesting thesis with carefully chosen examples--Good Read	This is bound to be controversial. Johnson, author of one of my personal favorites _Mind Wide Open_, argues that video games and TV are actually growing more complex and demanding far more cognitively from players and watchers. With video games, he leaks the little secret that no one who has never played today's video games--especially their critics--do not know: video games are fiendishly difficult. In playing a few with my five-year-old, I realize that I use problem solving and decision making skills that even the most demanding novels don't require. As for TV, he argues that shows like _The West Wing_, _Arrested Development_, and _The Simpsons_ rival literary novels in their complexity and the cognitive work they demand. Ultimately though he says the true measure of popular culture's edifying effects is not looking at high brow programming but comparing yesterday's \\"crap\\" to today's. He proceeds to do so by comparing \\"The Apprentice\\" to the \\"Love Boat\\" and finds evidence to support his claims. I enjoyed this book a great deal but felt his examples are very carefully chosen: he carefully avoids writing about today's real \\"crap\\", such as \\"Fear Factor\\" and the like, and he focuses on cognitively-demanding virtual quest video games and GOD games while avoiding more simplistic fare, such as racing and sports games that require little thought or strategy.	2005-10-10
US	29181451	R10NAE893YGRYX	0786715103	961150783	Shake Hands with the Devil: The Failure of Humanity in Rwanda	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A difficult though important book.  Anyone interested in human rights or morality should read this.	I will never forget this book; it is a difficult and at times terrible book to read. Dallaire tells the story of his experiences in Rwanda as the lead man in the U.N. Peacekeeping mission. As the horrible events in Rwanda unfolded, he pleaded with the UN and its powerful members to help with troops, equipment, everything and got very little and was unable to prevent the massacre of 800,000 Tutsis and moderate Hutus in 100 days. He describes the chaos of the situation in gripping and harrowing detail. Though I had read Gourevitch and Powers works on the subject, I was shocked by the raw power and emotion of this first-hand account. Dallaire is unsparing in his criticism of the UN and the US, claiming that if they had acted more quickly thousands of lives could have been spared, an allegation that gains support from Clinton's similar admission of regret in his recent autobiography. Anyone who is interested in human rights or the preventable holocaust in Rwanda would be highly advised to read this book--but be prepared to be disturbed and shaken. <br /> <br />	2005-10-10
US	29181451	RIOF3JAXOFFN	0618456937	600862604	The Grail Bird: Hot on the Trail of the Ivory-billed Woodpecker	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Fantastic adventure/search for the Lord God Bird	In April the world-renowned Cornell Lab of Ornithology announced that groups of qualified field biologists had spotted at least one Ivory-Billed Wood Pecker, a bird that had been thought extinct for sixty years despite controversial and unverifiable sightings. This amazing news was as big a revelation to a segment of the population as was Deep Throat's identity. Gallagher was one of the men who spotted the bird and convinced the Lab to send teams to Arkansas where more sightings followed. Despite his prowess as a birder, he is not a great writer. The book suffers for this. And yet, it is a riveting read and an important call to conservation action	2005-10-10
US	29181451	R1XFRAHL6ALS26	0674016696	681248419	Edward Teller: The Real Dr. Strangelove	Books	3	14	17	N	N	Good work of history; mediocre work of biography	After reading about Oppenheimer, I became interested in Teller and his role in the development of nuclear weapons and the Oppenheimer/Los Alamos saga. Though billed as a biography, this tome offers little in the way of insight into who Teller was. Instead, it is a very matter-of-fact depiction of events in his life and the development of nuclear and weapons science during the cold war. His scientific explanations are excellent and clear; his insight into his subject is sadly lacking.	2005-10-10
US	29181451	RS2GPEAX21XUS	0743287150	247431684	The Secret Man: The Story of Watergate's Deep Throat	Books	4	4	7	N	N	Great read if disappointing and somewhat sad	I confess that I enjoyed actually reading this book a great deal.  I stayed up late into the night so I could finish it once I received it.  The details that were not possible to bring out about Woodward's encounters with Felt are wonderful.  However, I found the ending of the volume quite sad.  The revelation of Felt's identity has troubled me.  Once I learned he was suffering from dementia, I wondered how much of this revelation was by his own wish and how much was a desire for the family to cash in on his inevitable fame.  This book reinforced those feelings for me.<br /><br />Must moving was BW's 2000 extended meeting with Felt in Santa Rosa.  It is clear from this and later conversations that Felt--who suffers from dementia--has virtually no memory of these events.  In fact, BW asks him if he remembers Nixon's impeachment and he says no.  According to the family and his lawyer, he confessed that he was Deep Throat and wanted to go public.  The man we meet in this book post-2000 seems unable to make a statement like that or grasp the significance of this decision.<br /><br />In addition, I found Bradlee's, Woodward's, and Bernstein's reasoning on whether or not to confirm the assertion as published in _Vanity Fair_ by Felt's lawyer, somewhat worrisome.  They felt that since Felt--a man suffering from dementia--had--according to his lawyer and family--decided to reveal himself they no longer had to honor their promise of anonymity until death.  Ultimately, it just seems to me that this man has been used and manipulated by Woodward and his family for their gains.  However, it is true that he used W&B to bring about what we suppose was his goal.<br /><br />Finally, the saddest thing of all is that--as BW admits--it is certain that we will never now know the real motivation behind Felt's actions.  So, now that we know who Deep Throat was it seems we will never know why.  Still, this is a book worth reading for anyone interested in this fascinating chapter in our nation's history.	2005-08-11
US	29181451	R1F1B2UHHQFCF	0312261470	938287639	Dominion: The Power of Man, the Suffering of Animals, and the Call to Mercy	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Unique and Logical Approach to Animal Welfare	Mr. Scully is the last author with whom I thought I would find myself agreeing.  He is a conservative and a former speech writer for W, both of which--in most instances--would instantly prejudice me against him.  However, this book is by far the most impressive book I have ever read on this subject.  I have long struggled with the moral dilemma of animal welfare and have read deeply in the area.  Much of what I have read did seem a bit extreme.  The notion that animals are on par with humans was something I accepted as a teenager.  But as years have worn on, that has dropped away.  However, I have long harbored a deep suspicion that I have a moral responsibility in what I eat.    Scully makes a convincing case that, in our modern world full of healthy meat and protein alternatives, there is no need to eat meat.  More than this basic point, he encourages us to enact legislation that prevents the barbarous practices of factory farming and canned hunts.  He recognizes that many of his readers will not make the jump to vegetarianism but he wishes to convince them that there are better, more humane ways to treat animals.    Though it seemed to be primarily addressed to fellow conservatives with a deep religious bent, this book has had a lasting impact on the choices I make when I eat.  While I recognize, this may not be a hugely important issue there is enough to convince me in this book that it is the right decision for me and a small gesture I can make to the rest of creation.  Thank you for this reasoned and carefully argued work, Mr. Scully.  It deserves a wide readership on both sides of this often overly emotional issue.	2005-08-10
US	29181451	R1273W6E8KQ6RP	0140233776	442684524	The Balkans: Nationalism, War & the Great Powers, 1804-1999	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Astounding Work of Scholarship and History	Mr. Glenny sets himself the task of detailing 200 years wort of hostory of the Balkan region.  He succeeds wonderfully.  His graceful writing manages to keep the dizzying array of people and places that figure into Balkan history interesting and highly readable.  Most interestingly, Glenny argues that much of the Balkans history of ethnic strife has been--and continues to be--compounded by outside entities (The Great Powers of the title), including the Ottoman Empire, the Hapsburg Empire, Nazi Germany, and the Allies.  There is much food for thought in this volume.  Highly recomended for those both familiar with and new to the history of the Balkans.	2005-08-10
US	29181451	R1VBVKBU2M73X	0060541644	59964273	A Problem from Hell: America and the Age of Genocide	Books	5	4	5	N	Y	One of the Most Important Books of Our Young Century	I have long intended to read this volume.  I am glad I finally got around to it.  Ms. Power does an exemplary job in this history/angry call to action.  She provides us with a straightforward history of twentieth century genocides and U.S. reaction (or lack thereof) to them.  In an uncompromising style, she moves her narrative along with heart-wrenching and painful stories if survivors and victims of the Turkish genocide of Armenians, the Holocaust, the Khmer Rouge, Iraqi attacks on Kurds, and ethnic cleansing in Bosnia and Rwanda.  She highlights the silent policy of the State department that not acting is far safer than acting with the threat of a PR nightmare.  She takes to task the right for isolationism, the left for hesitant suspicion, and America in general for a lack of concern for distant lands.  She argues we all must overcome this inertia and reform U.S. policy to recognize the moral imperative to recognize early signs of genocide and take action to prevent this horrible crime.  Throughout, Power also sheds light on little-known heroes of the fight against genocide, including Raphael Lemkin, who came up with the word \\"genocide\\" and ceaselessly lobbied for an international treaty on genocide.  I would suggest that the writing of this book marks Power as a courageous and important voice that both policymakers and the average American should take the time to hear.	2005-08-10
US	29181451	R1G4QGTLBROQAF	0375412026	352974810	American Prometheus: The Triumph and Tragedy of J. Robert Oppenheimer	Books	5	12	17	N	N	Excellent Biography of An Important Figure	Almost everyone knows Oppenheimer as the \\"Father of the Atomic Bomb\\".  For most, including myself, my knowledge of him stopped there.  It seems that Bird and Sherwin wrote their biography with this realization in mind.  The bulk of this biography focuses on Oppenheimer's life before and after Los Alamos.  This is not to say the years at Los Alamos are neglected; the fact that they have been so well documented in other notable volumes seems to have lead to less detail on these years in this volume.    The volume provides us a close look at Oppenheimer the man early on.  We get a real feel for his love of both Physics and New Mexico.  A lot of time is spent fleshing out his connections to Communists and left-leaning causes in the years before he headed up the project at Los Alamos.  Throughout the authors present us with a panoply of the most gifted scientists in the world.  These greats are allowed to speak for themselves using documents uncovered through twenty-five years of research.    The reader follows along breathlessly as Oppie interacts with the bright lights of physics until he is chosen to be a part of the Manhattan Project.  Here I fear is the one spot that is lacking in detail.  I wish the authors had spent a little more time fleshing out Oppie's shift from left-leaning physics prof in Berkeley to leader of the group charged with developing an atomic bomb.  This seems to happen in a relatively compressed account that begs for more details.    The authors do a great job capturing the attitude of those working on the project and their sincere belief that the bomb is needed to defeat Hitler and his evil empire.  Few if any of the scientists have any idea that the bomb might be used against Japan.  It is only when Neils Bohr visits New Mexico that anyone begins to formulate how this project could lead to an out-of-control arms race after the war is over.      Though Oppenheimier assists with plans for dropping the bomb on Hiroshima, he later confesses that hedid not understand why the bomb was needed given that Japan was virtually defeated and still has no understanding of the need for Nagasaki.      Where the book really hits its stride is the time after the project and bombing when Oppenheimer begins to oppose the move to create a SuperBomb (H-Bomb) on the grounds that its only use would be genocidal.  He urges the use of targeted nuclear weapons for military purposes and openness with the Soviets.  This does not sit well with several--including the powerful Lewis Strauss and fellow physicist Edward Teller.  This opposition, which occurs in the midst of the throes of McCarthyism, leads to a hearing to revoke Oppenhemier security clearance to work with the Atomic Energy Commission.  This hearing becomes a farce in which all the old charge that Oppie was a communist are dredged up and his opposition to the H-Bomb is taken as further threats of security issues.  Ultimately, his ordeal becomes a revealing look at a government that has overstepped its bounds and ends up virtually destroying a brilliant man.    This is an excellent read on so many levels--it is a good biography, history, cultural study, physics primer, etc.  It has lead me to expand my knowledge and reading in several areas.  That for me is the sign of a good--perhaps even--great book.	2005-06-02
US	29181451	R3J6PER0OJQ3R9	0618088253	144453019	Judgment Days: Lyndon Baines Johnson, Martin Luther King, Jr., and the Laws That Changed America (.)	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Excellent and Very Readable History	Though Kotz is writing about oft-covered material, this book comes across as a fresh and vital examination of the relationship of two of the most important figures of the previous century.  He spends a lot of time going over well known facts but also highlights the personalities of these two men.  The portraits that emerge are quite interesting.  MLK comes across as a man committed to change and--despite minor flaws--as the hero he was.   <br /> <br />More surprising is Kotz take on LBJ, who comes across as equally committed to change and righting wrongs.  Kotz argues that LBJ always displayed a commitment to improving the lot of the poor.  Though he does not explain LBJ's early votes against civil rights, he argues that his eventual support of major civil rights legislation had its roots in his desire to help the disadvantaged, like those he grew up with in the Hill Country of Texas.   <br /> <br />While stressing that both men were brilliant leaders, Kotz does not shy away from their flaws--of which LBJ had many.  Most interesting is his take that both hoped to accomplish significantly more in the realm of abolishing poverty when their efforts were cut short--LBJ's by the morass of Vietnam and MLK's by a bullet.  Ultimately this was a great read and should serve to hold those readers over who are eagerly awaiting the years-away release of Robert Caro's next LBJ volume. <br />	2005-06-02
US	29181451	R2AL9PV0S25WDA	0374292884	377846531	The World Is Flat: A Brief History of the Twenty-first Century	Books	3	16	19	N	N	Interesting theories and obvious observations	The first premise of this book--that technology has leveled the paying field globally--will not come as a shock to many.  What is interesting here is that Friedman attempts to explain how the \\"Flattening\\"--the removal of trade and political barriers with the help of technology--of the world has occurred providing us with 10 flatteners.  One appreciates the metaphor but wishes that TF would stop patting himself on the back for it.  The repeated use of the metaphor started to grate on this reader's nerves.    I did however appreciate his take on globalization.  His drawing a parallel to the move of US Society from an Agrarian to Industrial society is apt.  Resisting globalization does not seem like a feasible option.  TF argues that critics of globalization need to help at the levels where poverty exists--helping villagers in rural India, China, etc. to gain skills, clean water, and electricity--instead of \\"dressing in a turtle costume and throwing a brick through a McDonald's window\\".  Further, I appreciated a point that many of the pro-globalization wealthy will gladly gloss over: the need for us as world leaders to move away from gas-guzzling SUVs and begin to react globally responsible by driving smaller cars of hybrid vehicles.  TF points out that if he is right, millions around the world will want a car as part of the Indian (or Russian or Chinese or...) Dream and unless alternative forms of fuel are developed there will be a catastrophic energy crisis.  Those folks in other countries are not going to make smart energy choices if Americans continue to model irresponsible and selfish energy behavior that supports states where terrorism flourishes and destroys the environment.  This is one of the most important messages in the book and it unfortunately gets buried near the end.    As a parent, I truly appreciated TF's take on the future of competiveness in the global market.  I hope that everyone reading this will take into account not just the future but their own actions and behavior and how these impact everyone around the globe.  Although I do not agree with TF 100% I did enjoy this book and it gave me much to discuss with friends and family, I found his writing style irritating and somewhat juvenile.  I got fed up with TF's constant need to reaffirm his importance by not just introducing folks but letting the reader know that these businessmen, world leaders, etc. were his good friend.  This adds nothing to the work and makes TF look self promoting.  In spite of this, I would suggest this thought-provoking work to anyone no matter their position on globalization.	2005-05-04
US	29181451	R1J046LFGO53H2	067973371X	933385853	Means of Ascent (The Years of Lyndon Johnson)	Books	5	80	82	N	N	Fantastic and revealing	I loved \\"The Path to Power\\" but I held off on reading this volume because I could not understand why Caro would devote an entire volume to seven years in LBJ's life.  After I read this book, I have no doubt that this decision was a good one.  These years--particularly the 1948 Democratic Senatorial Primary--were some of the most historically significant events on the last hundred years.  It was this election that perhaps more than any other lay the foundation for politics as we know it.  Without the eventual win in this election, Caro argues that LBJ's political career would have been finished.  If that were true, he never would have gone on to be president.  And if that did not happen, one most ask would Vietnam or \\"The Great Society\\" ever have happened quite the way they did.  Caro is very convincing in arguing that this dramatic election is one of the most important in U.S. History.    Aside from the significance of the year, I would like to emphasize what a truly exciting read this volume is.  I was utterly enthralled to read about what unfolded next in the battle for the democratic candidacy for Texas' senatorial seat.  This in spite of the fact that everyone reading the book already knows the outcome.  Many have said that this is a hatchet job on LBJ.  While this is not a positive portrait of LBJ as a moral figure, it praises him highly as a calculating politician--possibly one of the greatest of all times.  The other thing to remember is that Caro is highlighting an election in 1940s Texas, which has always been notorious for corruption in politics (witness the cartoonish and stranger-than-fiction Pappy O'Daniel).  The difference in this case was that Coke Stevenson was not as willing to accept that corruption as LBJ was.  It is also a lament for the loss of politicians like Stevenson, who one feels Caro holds in much higher regard than LBJ, as will most readers--despite political leanings--once they complete this volume.      This volume is--hands down--oneof the most exciting books I have read in a long time.  I found it fascinating and could not put it down.  I look forward to moving on to the third volume (The Master of the Senate) but I fear how long I will have to wait for the next volume after that.	2005-04-30
US	29181451	RTN2OSZT9HASK	0691122946	25166027	On Bullshit	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Intellectually serious examination of BS	At first glance, this appears to be a work of satire.  However as you read deeper, you find that the author is quite serious in his examination of the topic.  He uses rigorous philosophical reasoning to examine untruth in all its forms.  He points out the BS is fundamentally different than a lie in that a liar knows the truth and opts to hide it whereas a BSer is unconcerned with truth.   <br /> <br />In addition to the nature of BS, Franfurt speaks of the prevalence of BS on our modern culture and its spread as a result of the post-modern doubt of objective truths in favor of subjective experience, or correctness vs. sincerity.  Suggesting, in the end that \\"sincerity itself is BS\\". <br /> <br />While this is a terribly short book (65 liberally spaced pages) and may have been better as a journal this would not have inspired the interest that the book has already generated.  Its value is that it will draw in a lot of readers who otherwise would not be exposed to philosophical reading or thinking.  I mean a work of serious philosophy on the bestseller list; imagine that.  Many will come to it expecting a light, joke-filled book and will come away from this breezy read somewhat enlightened. <br />	2005-04-26
US	29181451	RBVD9YN12TJV2	0375403728	672463940	Maximum City: Bombay Lost and Found	Books	2	13	19	N	N	High expectations not met	I had such high hopes for this book.  According to the jacket copy, this is \\"a brilliantly illuminating portrait of Bombay and its people\\".  I think I would have really liked the book that the jacket copy described.  However, this is far from that book.    With the exception of a brilliant opening chapter and some bright spots hidden deep in this 500+ page tome, this book does not live up to its hype.  Once you move beyond the first chapter, you find yourself immersed in the criminal underworld of Bombay.  At first you think, this is interesting and is undoubtedly a part of Bombay.  From here, we get a peek into gang life and life as a sex worker and the underworld's influence on Bollywood.  Still could be interesting, but what of the promise of \\"Bombay and its people\\".  Evidently with the exception of the last sixth of the book, that phrase merely means the underside of Bombay.      The real criticism with this book is that it seems to have started as a project to represent all of Bombay but Mehta lost energy.  Thousands of words are used to describe the admittedly fascinating mobs, gang wars, bar dancers, etc.  The problem is these subjects as presented would be better handled with hundreds of words.  By the time we get a picture of a few of Bombay's everymen the reader has been numbed by the excessive verbosity of the preceding 400 pages. Perhaps, a bit more focus and a good editor could have saved this work.  Mehta could have had a great 250 page book on the underside of Bombay; but that is not what this is advertised as.    On top of everything else, throughout Mehta writes in an appallingly condescending fashion about everyone who he meets and profiles.  As I read I couldn't help but think Mehta wanted all his readers to know that he was different from and better than the people with whom he interacts.      I really wanted to like this book.  Unfortunately it is as unwieldy and messy a beast as the city it describes, which might have been the intent but makesfor less than pleasing reading.	2005-04-21
US	29181451	R3QSV88B0Y5PJ5	0743260031	297692250	Assassination Vacation	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Vowell at her best: making history fun for everyone	This is a fantastic read for fans of Vowell, the shining star of the stellar \\"This American Life\\" bunch, and fans of American History.  If you happen to be both, you are in for a real treat.  Vowell decides to put her fascination with the macabre and American History to good use by writing a travelogue--sort of--about the first three presidential assassinations.  In the course of the book, she visits numerous sites that have to do with Lincoln, Garfield, and McKinley as well as their assassins--Booth, Guiteau, and Czolgosz.  She also focuses on \\"Jinxy McDeath\\" or Robert Todd Lincoln, who was present at all three assassinations.      Throughout, Vowell writes with her trademark witty humor.  The most impressive thing about this book is that Vowell somehow manages to be both reverent and irreverent at the same time.  Her passion for history is refreshing as is her treatment of it. For me, the measure of a good work of non-fiction is if it inspires one to read more about the subject; I have already begun piling up books on Lincoln and Garfield (which is an accomplishment in its own right; I never imagined anything would inspire me to learn more about Garfield.  Kudos to you, Ms. Vowell!) and their assasinations.  I expected to laigh but did not expect to learn so much once I closed the back cover.    This is by far the best work of her career and leads one to hope for more of the same.  I hope that her stint in \\"The Incredibles\\" will lead to increased readership.  My one complaint is that she repeatedly refers to the books she has read on the topic and one wishes she would have included a further reading section.  A minor quibble about a work that I will suggest to everyone I know.	2005-04-18
US	29181451	R3V49BFWX1EZ1	0316323942	993319687	The Crisis: The President, the Prophet, and the Shah-1979 and the Coming of Militant Islam	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Excellent work that has implications for today's world	Though I was only seven at the time of the Iran Hostage Crisis, I can vividly remember how the Crisis touched everyone in America as I observed in my household.  I remember the nightly new and papers menioning the three players highlighted in this work.  With the exception of Carter, I knew very little about these three before picking up this book. <br /> <br />Harris provides the reader with a detailed account of each leaders rise to and/or fall from power.  In a coup of thorough research, Harris attempts to lay out every twist and turn in the international negotiations to release the hostages.  Though the subtitle mentions only Carter, the Shah, and Khomeni, Harris details the actions of numerous other players who interact with the three leaders and influence the course of events in Tehran.   <br /> <br />The pace of the narrative is like that of an excellent thriller.  Harris cuts back and forth between Washington, Paris, Tehran, and the carious locations of the Shah.  He does an excellent job in capturing the emotions of the folks involved.  The description of the disastrous rescue attempt is fantastic and exemplifies how small things can derail military operations.  Harris also concentrates on how a world leader--be it the shah, president,  or the Secretary General of the UN--has to be extremely careful in how he or she speaks. <br /> <br />One thing I really liked about this work is the final chapter in which Harris details what has happened to each person we met along the way.  In so many works of non-fiction and history, we are introduced to folks who are dropped from the focus of the author.   <br /> <br />Ultimately, this is an important work because it looks at the birth of the hatred of the United States espoused by militant Islams.  It is fascinating and disturbing to think that this incident that brought down the presidency of Carter was initially to be a three day \\"statement\\" by a group of students in Tehran.	2005-04-14
US	29181451	R1NLPQXNO3F2P8	0385514840	811743658	The Pontiff in Winter: Triumph and Conflict in the Reign of John Paul II	Books	3	26	32	N	N	Important insights marred by mean and bitter writing	Let me preface this review by saying I am not Catholic and though I have Catholic leanings I have resisted converting because of my liberal religious outlook.  Seemingly, this is an outlook I share with Mr. Cornwell.  I--like him--hold John Paul II in very high regard as a man of peace and one of the most influential agents of positive change in the past fifty years.  On this aspect of his papacy, I feel Cornwell provides great examples and writes with appropriate zeal and praise.    However, the areas that are of concern to many non-Catholics, which include ordination of women, contraception, marriage of clergy, and even papal infallibility, are presented in such a negative and sarcastic light that I fear no one will take them seriously.  Cornwell claims to be a reform-minded Catholic.  Unfortunately, his presentation of real concerns for thousands of Catholics and non-Catholics alike are handled with such vitriol that this book will prove to be more divisive than unifying.    Ultimately, I feel that in spite of differences in belief between the author and the Pope this book could have been infused with a great deal more respect for a man who will be missed by millions.  After all, in Cornwell's own admission, John Paul II has done more for peace in the world than anyone.  Somehow, it seems that after saying that about someone repeatedly referring to him as \\"old boy\\" is entirely inappropriate.  I had hoped for an unbiased (although this is seemingly impossible when writing about religion) and thoughtful portrayal of the strengths and weaknesses of John Paul's papacy.  Unfortunately, I got a venomous diatribe.	2005-04-09
US	29181451	R28TZO5G2DFZIC	0316172324	968642731	Blink: The Power of Thinking Without Thinking	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Seemingly obvious insights but valuable nonetheless	As I read this, I kept asking myself if I really needed a book to tell me that at times my \\"adaptive unconscious\\" made quick decisions and that sometimes this was good and others bad.  As obvious as some of the points in this book seem, it is important precisely because snap judgments are so natural I have rarely thought about the phenomenon.      Several folks I know who have read this have asked me what is the point.  To me that is the point.  Gladwell does not provide definitive answers of how and when to use our adaptive unconscious.   Instead, he provides us with plenty of information to make us more aware of how and why we make decisions.  The real benefit of this book is that it leaves the reader thinking about blinking.  This is no small feat considering it is something that I (and I suspect other readers) rarely thought about--in spite of the fact that we do it daily--before reading this.    Hardly weighed down by excessive theory, the book's other charms are the innumerable entertaining stories and examples Gladwell marshals in support of his points.  A good read that will inevitably influence the way you think and make decisions.	2005-04-09
US	29181451	RYOQDS6JYRUR8	0385504535	816121868	Conclave: The Politics, Personalities and Process of the Next Papal Election	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Excellent overview of the coming election	As the world watches Rome, this slim book goes a long way to explain what will happen as the Cardinals gather to select a new pope.  Though somewhat dated (2002), the book provides a great general overview of the \\"parties\\" and the twenty most likely candidates for the papal office.  This book is far more beneficial than the countless snippets of news coverage that we will now be inundated with brief overviews of the process.  I especially liked that Allen illustrates many of his points with examples from past Papal elections.  Though the value of this title may greatly decline in a few months, it is the perfect read for the current times in which we face an event the likes of which several of us younger readers have not seen in our memory.  I feel far better informed after having read this volume.	2005-04-09
US	29181451	R2IFURA7VL7274	0674015088	689229349	Huck's Raft : A History of American Childhood	Books	4	19	19	N	N	The More Things Change?	An excellent scholarly work that brings together a lot of work on the history of childhood in America.  Mintz is concerned with looking at the way in which we have mythologized childhood and to what degree the truth is reflected in that mythology.  What he discovers is that our recent conception of childhood is a fairly modern phenomenon.  Along the way, he constantly draws our attention to the fact that childhood experience varies greatly depending on class, race, religion, etc. <br /> <br />The thing I found most interesting about his work is the degree to which adults have defined how children experience childhood for most of this nation's history.  It was only in the last part of the century that youth began to define their own culture.  For the vast majority of the history of childhood, children have faced a difficult road fraught with perils and privation.  In contrast, modern-day parents work hard to shield children from the reality of culture and the world around them.  Part of what Mintz argues here is that modern day children need to return to some of that freedom while parents and government works to ensure their health and access to a home, food, clothing, etc. <br /> <br />This is an incredibly broad work that sets itself up to cover a huge time span--both in terms of history and childhood.  Mintz covers all stages of childhood and youth.  This is my only criticism of this wonderful book.  I wish he had focused more closely on the different stages of youth.  At some point he focuses on infancy and in others the teen years; this leads to a somewhat scattershot narrative.  This is the sole thing that prevents me from giving this book an enthusiastic five stars.  Having said this, I will say this is a small criticism for an otherwise fantastic and highly readable work. <br />	2005-04-04
US	29181451	R2U843Z254QSBZ	0375705244	406271874	Founding Brothers: The Revolutionary Generation	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Enjoyable History	This is a thoroughly enjoyable read. Instead of attempting to cover a broad range of events and folks involved in Revolutionary America, Ellis decides to concentrate on specific events in a series of six essays that cover the Hamilton-Burr Duel; the dinner w/ Hamilton, Jefferson, and Madison at which an exchange was orchestrated for acceptance of Hamilton's fiscal plan and the location of the capital on the Potomac; the Silence of congress (and the whole government) on the slavery issue; Washington's farewell address; and two essays on the relationship of Jefferson and Adams. <br /> <br />While this neither claims to be through biography or history, Ellis is able to accomplish much here that significantly larger books fail at. He does an excellent job of communicating to the reader the true radicallness of the revolution and the dire consequences for those involved if the experiment fails. Eschewing both hagiography and the trend of examining the everyman, he depicts the actors as fully human and essential to understanding the time. But more than anything else--and this is especially true in the duel chapter, he draws the reader's attention to the fact that much of history is guesswork and will never be known with certainty. <br /> <br />Though I would suggest numerous other volumes for a thorough appreciation of the revolutionary era of our history, I would not hesitate to recommend this volume to some one who is looking for an entertaining read--whether they are interested in Revolutionary America or not. <br />	2005-03-28
US	29181451	R2GI64Q7A5EYEO	014024364X	933995871	A People's Tragedy: The Russian Revolution: 1891-1924	Books	5	57	63	N	Y	Amazingly broad coverage of the Revolution; very impressive	As a person only familiar with the basic outline of the Russian Revolution, I found this book simply entrancing.  I have long intended to read a work on this crucial event and period in world history; I am glad this was the volume I selected. <br /> <br />While the length and subject matter of this book is somewhat daunting, Figes presents this history in a highly readable fashion without skimping on fascinating detail.  Part of how he does this is by interspersing historical detail with personal histories of both famous and everyday Russians.  Figes foes beyond just describing the key events but analyzes why they happened and how it impacted the Russian people at all levels of society.  Importanty, Figes also stresses how the history of Russia formed its people and how these people formed the Revolution and the resulting disaster of Bolshevism. He goes into great detail concerning the other key political groups of this era.  Figes scope and knowledge of his subject matter is amazing.  I feel much wiser for having spent a couple weeks plowing through this important tome.   <br /> <br />I would say if you read only one book on the Russian Revolution, this is the one.  However, this is the only book I have read on the subject.  So, with that qualification, I will say that--in my opinion--this is a darn good book for someone looking to better understand one of the most important events of the twentieth century.	2005-03-25
US	29181451	R2VFOXWQXK3PO	067945120X	809423063	The Sibley Field Guide to Birds of Eastern North America	Books	5	71	72	N	N	The Best Guide for the Field	As a new birder, I did a lot of checking before buying a guide.  I found Sibley to be the best guide for the field.  While there is limited information, this guide provides essential information needed to make a positive identification.  It includes multiple images of birds as well as any variants for gender, age, etc.  While I would definitely suggest at least looking at other guides, I would say this is the essential guide for time in the field.  Additionally, now that the larger Sibley Guide has been split into a Eastern and Western version it is portable: it fits in my back pocket as I trek through the woods.	2005-03-08
US	29181451	R2WE7ZF5F37N12	0789483882	749683350	Smithsonian Handbooks: Birds of Texas (Smithsonian Handbooks)	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Great reference guide; not-so-great field guide	I really like this book.  However, it is not my first choice when out birding.  It has some great features, including detailed information on habitat, population, attracting to feeders, etc.  However, there is often only one picture of a bird; this is a photograph rather than a drawing, which has advantages and drawbacks.  Sometimes, it is easier to idetify from a drawing and other times you just need a photo.  I do like the feature that gives you the birds size and silhoutte.  I do like the one bird per page feature but it does make the size cumbersome.  Therefore, I use this as a reference guide to be kept at home and compare my notes against when I come back from the field.  I also am a big fan of the section at the bottom of the page that allows you to record information about sighting the bird in question.  Great as a reference, but if you need a great field guide go with Sibley.	2005-03-08
US	29181451	R1PMU7P3HFRV1H	1558214372	112245397	L.L. Bean Fly-Fishing Handbook	Books	5	12	15	N	N	Excellent beginner's guide	After reviewing dozen of books, I decided to purchase and use this as my primary self-teaching tool.  Surprisingly, I was able to learn the basics of casting from this book.  I did get some instruction but was too eager to wait for that route.  Once I showed up for a lesson, I was told my cast was quite impressive for a beginner; that was the result of this book.  I also initially had qualms with the what-I-thought were overly complicated knots given as examples for connecting flies, leaders, tippets, etc.  However, after losing several flies, leaders, and tippets from using other knots, I have followed the advice in the book with significantly more success.  Overall, I would say there is no better introduction to this wonderful and satisfying hobby.  After reading it, you can safely walk in to your local fly shop without feeling like an idiot.  Highly reccomended.After reviewing dozen of books, I decided to purchase and use this as my primary self-teaching tool. Surprisingly, I was able to learn the basics of casting from this book. I did get some instruction but was too eager to wait for that route. Once I showed up for a lesson, I was told my cast was quite impressive for a beginner; that was the result of this book. I also initially had qualms with the what-I-thought were overly complicated knots given as examples for connecting flies, leaders, tippets, etc. However, after losing several flies, leaders, and tippets from using other knots, I have followed the advice in the book with significantly more success. Overall, I would say there is no better introduction to this wonderful and satisfying hobby. After reading it, you can safely walk in to your local fly shop without feeling like an idiot. Highly recommended.	2005-03-01
US	29181451	R2VW1D6FDY2USO	0375414126	96298221	John James Audubon: The Making of an American	Books	5	29	33	N	N	An illuminating look at a man and his times.	This fantastic book has something for everyone.  Rhodes does an excellent job of breathing life into Audubon the man without losing touch of Audubon the artist or Audubon the scientist.  In the process, he paints a vivid portrait of America of the early 19th century.  This is an outstanding work of biography, naturalism, and history wrapped up in one great book.    Born to a French planter on what is present day Haiti and raised in France, Audubon came to America at a young age.  As he endures a few business failures, Audubon turns back to his first loves: birds and painting.  In an age prior to photography, he goes to great lengths to capture the true likeness of birds on paper with the ultimate goal of creating a complete (as possible) catalog of American birds.  Some might be shocked by his methods.  Few birders today would encourage the hunting of birds as a means of appreciating their beauty.  But, we must keep in mind the times he came from and that without this method much of our knowledge of birds would be limited.  One thing I truly enjoyed about this biography was the view as Audubon as a man who not only painted birds but knew about them in minute detail because he studies them in the field.  It brims over with adventure as Audubon goes on many of his missions to gather more birds.  Further, Rhodes does not make the mistake of many a biographer: thoroughly examining their subject while presenting one-dimensional portraits of the other folks in the subject' life.  Numerous people, including friends and relatives, are depicted in all their dimensions and shed further light on Audubon and his times. Of particular note is Audubon's wife Lucy, without whom it is doubtful that he could have accomplished all he did.    Included in the book are beautiful reproductions of Audubon's art, which most of us have seen.  However, as we read of the conditions under which these masterpieces were painted we gain a new respect for these works of art.  After reading this book, you will be inspired to grab your binoculars (which JJA didn't have) and go birding.  Highly recommended.  I think all readers can find something to like in this superb book.	2005-02-21
US	29181451	R2Z31W5U4MK1EY	0060930942	609980992	Three Roads to the Alamo: The Lives and Fortunes of David Crockett, James Bowie, and William Barret Travis	Books	5	13	13	N	N	A Look Behind the Legends	The story of the Alamo has become the stuff of legend.  The names most associated with the Alamo-James Bowie, David Crockett, and William Barret Travis-have taken on a mythological aura-especially in Texas.  Davis' goal here is not to tell the story of the Alamo again (the actual battle covers very few pages) but to take a look behind the legends and attempt to draw a human portrait of these three heroes of the Alamo with flaws (and there are a lot of flaws here) and all.    David Crockett had already become the stuff of legend by the time he made his way to the Alamo.  Davis implies he only referred to himself as Davy to further the popular image of himself as a naïve back woodsman.  David further implied that Crockett was inept and selfish at best in politics and neglectful of family.  Of the three, however, Crockett does emerge as the most sympathetic.  Bowie is presented as shady at best.  In his pre-Alamo days, Bowie was a greedy speculator who was not above slave-trading or colossal dishonesty in the attempt to acquire land.  There is little source material for Travis' life.  Yet, Davis is able to draw a convincing picture of this failed lawyer who fled his native state to flee financial collapse and professional ruin.     Ultimately, what will cause this book to become a classic on this near-mythological battle will be that Davis examines these three guys as human and not as solely legends.  If he had chosen to write one book on each of these three it would have been a good book; by choosing to write about all three in one book he has produced a great book.	2005-02-16
US	29181451	RBZZ8VQXVF3PM	0684807610	438783610	Benjamin Franklin: An American Life	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A Fantastic and Entertaining Biography of the Real Franklin	Isaacson provides us with an entertaining and easily readable biography of the founding father that was most ahead of his time.  He depicts Franklin as a man who prized pragmatism, religious tolerance, and opposition to rigid class hierarchy.  Franklin comes to life in these pages.  Like most biographies and histories written today, this too is slightly revisionist in that the author highlights the flaws in Franklin's character and the inevitable inconsistencies in his actions.  And yet, Franklin emerges as a hero of his age and a role model for our society today.  What I took away from this book was the greatness of Franklin; he accomplished more in his life than nearly any of his contemporaries.  This is an entertaining and illuminating biography of Franklin that transcends the hagiographical approach one often encounters when discussing our founding fathers.  What one remembers as they read this book is that Franklin was human and one with whom it would be fascinating to have sat down and talked.  A thoroughly entertaining biography that anyone interested in history or America should read.	2005-02-16
US	29181451	R2AV2KDTAEVGEG	0670033375	635086986	Collapse: How Societies Choose to Fail or Succeed	Books	4	4	5	N	N	An Enlightening if Slightly Flawed Book	Collapse is Diamond's examination of those societies that have failed and those that have survived.  He starts out this book with a look at modern day Montana's problems with natural resource decline.  From there he looks at ancient societies, including Anasazi, Vikings on Greenland, Easter Islander, Mayans, etc.).  Later in the book, he covers modern collapses (most notably the Rwandan genocide).  There is much here about environmental disasters but Diamond's thesis is not that these are what destroy societies but human reactions (or lack of reaction) to these disasters.    Aside from the lessons Diamond hopes to impart from the collapses he examines, this is a great book just in the sheer amount of historical and archaeological facts he shares with the reader.  I cannot think of a single book I have read in recent years that provided me with so much new knowledge.  And, added to that, the further readings section is a treasure trove of suggestions if you are particularly interested in any one section of the book.  After I finished, I had a list of twenty-five books I wanted to read as a result of reading this one.    I do feel that this very strength causes the book to be less than effective in its stated goals.  It seems that Diamond tries to cover too much too fast.  Much of his arguments are built on assumptions that it seems he does not take the time to prove.  Plus, I fear many will dismiss this learned and carefully researched book (as much for the title as anything else) as just another environmental screed and not pay any attention to the ideas Diamond puts forth.  In spite of its overly ambitiousness, this is a wonderfully entertaining and educational book that has something very important to say about how we live our lives.	2005-02-16
US	29181451	RLXQYE9AA1T5D	0375505008	593758140	Franklin and Winston: An Intimate Portrait of an Epic Friendship	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Clever Examination of THE Friendship of the 20th Century	Yes, Meacham is writing about two of the most written-about (justifiably so) figures of the past century; but this is fresh and original writing.  Instead of repeating the facts and dates of so many biographies of these two great men, the author examines their friendship, the psychology of that friendship, and how their relationship shaped world history.  Meacham clearly did exhaustive research for this book; the result is a work that is sure to be the definitive volume on this very interesting and significant relationship.  I cannot recommend this wonderful volume highly enough to any and all interested readers.	2004-11-30
US	29181451	R3QDLTV7YS7IF1	1400078741	767591657	McSweeney's Enchanted Chamber of Astonishing Stories	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Mixed Bag of the Good and the...	Like the previous volume Chabon edited, many of the stories seem to miss their aim.  Despite claims to the contrary, many of these tales are bogged down by the exact literary trends and pretension that inspired this collection (and the previous) as a reaction against.  There are some outstanding stories--Ayelet Waldman's \\"Minnow\\", China Mieville's \\"Reports of Certain Events in London\\", and Jason Robert's \\"7C\\"--that accomplish that thrilling edge-of-your-seat anticipation that inspired so many young folks to become lifelong readers.  Many of the other stories are mostly good but seem to not exactly fit into this anthology.  I will say that I loved the stories by the inimitable David Mitchell and Jonathan Lethem and would suggest picking up this volume for those alone.	2004-11-30
US	29181451	R40M6HI7OYT3A	1582344582	189606253	Every Time I Talk to Liston: A Novel	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Intriguing Look at Life through the Sweet Science	Being far from an enthusiast of the sweet science, I expected to have a lukewarm reaction to a boxing novel, especially another one that uses Liston as inspiration (I count at least three novels/story collections that have Liston's name in the title from the past couple of years). However, I was instantly taken with this tale of a once-promising heavyweight on the downside of his career.  Amos \\"Scrap Iron\\" Fletcher is a good fighter who has never been knocked down but has also never one a major fight or fought in Vegas, his lifelong dream.  At the beginning, he gets this dream and it turns out to be shallow.  After a scandal, he returns to Trenton, NJ, where he decides to manage a fighter named TNT (It seems all fighters have to have a nickname).  The novel follows Amos as he trains TNT for an eventual world title bought.  Throughout it all, we have Amos visiting the grave of the once-great Liston for inspiration and confession he cannot make to those around him.  We have wonderful writing, good characters, and descriptive writing that captures moments in the ring like nothing I have ever read--not that I have read too much about boxing.  However, as much as I enjoyed this novel and as quickly as I read it, I fear it gets a bit formulaic by about midway through.  I still enjoyed this novel quite a bit and am encouraged to see an author who so impressively melds sport and literature.	2004-11-30
US	29181451	R2I9LV4MAUEYGW	1400041457	770351241	Without Blood	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Good little fable	This is a powerful fable of the personal toll war takes on individual lives.  Baricco deftly explores how both sides of a conflict feel that what they are doing is right and for an ultimate higher good.  The slight volume also examines how the personal aspect of war does not disappear once the war ends.  In this tale, it lingers on in dangerous rage and ultimately futile schemes of revenge that beget more violence.	2004-11-06
US	29181451	R3GPMMQFXIZEHM	0374281416	579098147	Natasha: And Other Stories	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Great short stories	The critical hype surrounding this collection is well deserved. Bezmozgis is a fantastic writer whose stories are suffused with humor and sympathy. These stories present the experiences of the Berman family, Jewish Russian immigrants in Toronto. Stand outs are the title story, which simultaneously captures the experience of being a teenager and the painful realities of life; and the brief \\"The Animal to the Memory\\", which is one of the most powerful stories I have ever read about the importance of history. I look forward to DB's future writings. <br /> <br /> <br /> <br />	2004-11-06
US	29181451	R3KT9TXYKKII0B	0743246349	674767143	Heaven Lake: A Novel	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Almost a Five Star Title	Dalton spent over eight years working on this novel; that dedication shows throughout the majority of the novel.  This is the story of Vincent, a Protestant missionary on his way to Taiwan.  Having known nothing but the Christianity he was raised in and his friends shared, Vincent begins to slowly shed the faith he intended to bring to the Taiwanese.  This loss of faith is presented in an empathetic manner and--at first--appears to be the main theme of the novel.  However, there is quite a lot more going on here.  In addition to teaching bible classes, Vincent takes on a number of English teaching assignments.  One is a class full of female teenagers, one of whom is obsessed with Vincent.  He makes a bad decision and ends up sleeping with her.  Rather than continue to be beat up by this girl's brother, Vincent decides to go to the mainland and retrieve a woman that one of his wealthy students wants to marry but fears he will be unable to given the political climate.  The evocation of travel and the entirety of the country of China is wonderful.  There are some truly memorable characters here.  Vincent's journeys--both physical and metaphysical--are told with a combination of realism and wonder.  However, I feel, as with so many good (as opposed to great) books, much of the strong points of the first 3/4s of the book have vanished by the end and given in to conventions of plot.	2004-11-06
US	29181451	R2PD7TBK3XKQR3	1400042216	392206348	Reason: Why Liberals Will Win the Battle for America	Books	5	17	22	N	N	The title says it all	In a season of political books that are little more than screeds suffused with unsupported opinions and absent of any rigorous intellectualism, Reich's book is a welcome relief. The difference is in the title. Instead of arguing his positions from unexamined presuppositions, Reich uses reason to lay out his beliefs on how this country could be better run. Whether you agree or disagree with his view that both parties have shifted the nation to far to the right and lost sight of the beliefs of the voters, this makes for thought-provoking reading. <br /> <br />	2004-11-06
US	29181451	R37H6ZBBWB27DA	0375507418	64103647	Grand Old Party: A History of the Republicans	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Good readable history	The Republicans started as a nationalistic party focused on ending slavery--dare we say liberal. Gould deftly examines the party's shift from these origins to the ultra-conservatism of modern Republicans. Two pivotal moments he stresses are Teddy Roosevelt's division of the party in 1912 and the rejection of Robert Bork for Supreme Court. Gould admits at the beginning that he is a Democrat; this account remains relatively unbiased until he begins relating the history of the last twenty years or so. <br /> <br />	2004-11-06
US	29181451	R17HMELSIVACVV	1400044006	943036028	Checkpoint: A Novel	Books	2	1	2	N	N	Favors tirade over Baker's usual thoughtful examinations	Like _Vox_, this novel is merely a dialogue between two people.  One who wants to assassinate Dubya and one who wants to talk him out of it.  The references to current events indicate to me that this was written quickly; it shows.  This is the worst novel I have read by Baker: the dialogue is sloppy and the probing of individual reasoning is lacking.  While I think there are some truly fantastic and thought-provoking points (some that will anger the left and the right alike) made in this book, I feel they suffer by being mouthed by a lunatic.  Less a novel than an author's reaction to a president who he abhors, _Checkpoint_, like Fahrenheit 9/11_, brings up intriguing points but allows passionate sensationalism to override careful reasoning.  I fear it fails as both a novel and political criticism.	2004-11-06
US	29181451	R1ILJ0KQJOIX3U	1560974702	686955598	Safe Area Gorazde: The War in Eastern Bosnia 1992-1995	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Stunning and memorable	This work of comics journalism is utterly stunning. Sacco uses the town of Gorazde as a microcosm of the war in Bosnia. Though numerous pages have been written on the horrors of this period of Balkan history, Sacco's drawings and text present a unique intensity and reality. He makes clear that the people who suffered through this are no different than you or I. The interspersed sections of background history are accurate and succinct. I cannot recommend this important work highly enough. <br /> <br />	2004-11-06
US	29181451	R34OO9VNPWV3S4	1931520119	49591283	Perfect Circle	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Great for music fans and Houstonians	A punk rock ghost story set in Houston and named after a song from the album that first clued a twelve-year-old me in to great music that would never be played on the radio. How could I not love it?  Well, there are parts that are just not very well written and there are characters acting in a way that cmopletely conflict with what we know of them.  Having said that, I will say I enjoyed this book.  I enjoyed the Houston references.  Although I will say I felt a little like I did on first seeing _Slacker_,  Stewart like Linklater plays freely with local geography to suit his needs, which leads to a sense of disorientation for those who know the city well  (Interesting that Richard Linklater actually shows up in the novel eating in the Galleria towards the end).  While this is definitely not an example of \\"literary excellence\\", it is a fun read that any Houstonian and fan of what was once called college music (for lack of a better term) will truly enjoy.  Stewart definitely deserves a wider readership and a bigger publisher.	2004-11-06
US	29181451	R20D1YTC61Q46K	0743230043	597848159	Wake Up, Sir!: A Novel	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Quite Funny	This is possibly the funniest novel I have ever read.  Alan our narrator has overdosed on Wodehouse, having read 45 of his 90+ novels.  After winning a large personal injury settlement, he decides to hire a manservant, whose name happens to be Jeeves.  Ames nicely updates Wodehouse's Wooster in Alan.  This Jeeves seem less of a force than the original.  After a trip to a decaying resort town, Jeeves and Alan arrive at an artists' colony, which gives Ames a wonderful opportunity to lambaste himself and other artists.  Though there is one chapter that seemed completely out-of-sync with the rest of the novel, I absolutely loved this book and found myself laughing two or three times on every page.  Also, hands down the best suthor photograph ever.	2004-11-06
US	29181451	R3HM2AZL4S8RKP	0670033448	9843603	The Inner Circle	Books	5	14	17	N	N	Boyle does it again	Boyle is hands down one of the best storytellers writing today; his sense of pacing is unrivalled in modern fiction.  I loved this book as I have loved everything he has written (biased?).  This time out he has chosen to tell the story of a young student, John Milk, at Indiana University who comes under the thrall of Dr. Kinsey (or Prok or the Sex Doctor of the now famous Kinsey Reports).  Boyle builds on rumours of Kinsey's private life including a rather uninhibited sex life.  Kinsey will have no one work for him who is sex shy.  To prove that they are not, his inner circle, including their spouses, are asked to engage in increasingly uninhibited sexual acts.  Though Boyle describes these acts in sometimes explicit terms, they are quite boring.  He describes these acts in deliberately dry and mechanistic terms.  I read a review that said they were hoping for a more exciting (?) book given the subject.  It seems that is exactly Boyle's intent.  Much like he lampooned the free love ideal in _Drop City_ and the Doctor who took the ladies into the woods in _The Road to Wellville_, (which seems to have been the seed of this book), Boyle's story seems to challenge Kinsey's base assumption that we are no more than human animals and sex is mechanics and nothing else.  Though the scene in which Milk's wife finally rebels against Prok seems late in coming, I did enjoy this book.  Granted there are few sympathetic characters here (yet again), yet the book is fantastic.	2004-11-06
US	29181451	R2FPNYFWGJP4C8	0743241657	764881501	Mind Wide Open: Your Brain and the Neuroscience of Everyday Life	Books	4	6	6	N	N	I learned a lot from this book.	This popular scientific account explains a handful of concepts in modern neuroscience for the non-scientist. In the process of writing this entertaining book, Johnson subjects his own brain to countless examinations as examples of his topic. He does a great job in detailing how this information is relevant to our everyday lives. Among other things, he explains how we perceive other peoples' faces, what happens in the brain when we fall in love, why music causes strong emotional reactions, and how ideas are generated.  And, it is a very entertaining read. <br /> <br />	2004-11-06
US	29181451	R758UWH0WT6HH	0374266573	981460289	Someone to Run With: A Novel (Sifriyah Ha-Hadashah Li-Menuyim, 2000 (1).)	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Someone to Run With	This is a touching and revealing coming-of-age novel.  We follow Assaf as he attempts to find the owner of a dog.  He discovers that the owner is a singer named Tamar, with whom he falls in love before meeting her.  The scenes shift between Assaf and Tamar, who is trying to rescue another teenage boy from drug addiction and his directionless life on the streets of Israel.  This was a huge bestseller in Israel in 2000 and has just been translated into English.  I enjoyed it quite a bit	2004-11-06
US	29181451	R1F93HWT33ZBEG	0679729453	933385853	The Path to Power (The Years of Lyndon Johnson, Volume 1)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Best biography written in past fifty years!	There is no way around it: this is a fantastic book. Caro's detailed portrait of Johnson's early years through 1941 provides the reader access to a political world that is often closed off. Caro covers so much ground here. We get insight into Texas history and politics and politicians in the first half of the century. I particularly enjoyed the chapters detailing Johnson's relationship with teh great Sam Rayburn.  I will grant that Caro's depiction of Johnson seems to be colored hy his hypothesis that LBJ wanted power more than anything else.  He seems to attribute every action--professional or otherwise--to this one goal.  While appropriate in some places, he can go overboard in this area.  And yet, this remains the pinnacle of the biographical art.  I will eagerly read the other volumes in this extensive biography of one of our more interesting presidents.	2004-11-06
US	29181451	R2D23NTTQ6DLX2	0375507256	851412948	Cloud Atlas: A Novel	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Best of 2004	Wow!  This is Mitchell's third novel and it is as inventive as his previous two.  The pattern of the novel is like Russian dolls: the first story ends with the last section of the novel, the second story ends with the second to last section...  Each story is written with a completely distinct voice and in a different genre.  Each narrative is subtely tied to the narrative that precedes it or follows by the narratives themselvs (on the form of a diary, letters, a novel, a movie, etc.)  In one of the stories we meet a composer working on a sextet called \\"Cloud Atlas Sextet\\", which is written for six distinct yet overlapping voices.  The narrator of that section cannot decide if it is \\"gimmicky or revolutionary\\"?  I know what I think. <br />	2004-11-06
US	29181451	RLQMD3WECFY7E	1931561621	318105314	Happy Baby	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Disturbing and impressive	This is a deeply disturbing nightmare of a book; that is not to say it is not good.  Told in streamlined and focused prose in reverse chronilogical order HB begins with 36 year-old Theo returning to Chicago where he was a word of the state from 12 to 18.  Elliot does not flinch in depicting the psychological damage and its resultant actions on Theo.  Theo, who was sexually abused while in a home, is incapable of intimacy without suffering extreme violence.  Elliot depicts the results and the cause in honest and troubling detail.  We trace Theo's life back to when he was a child of eleven right before his father, a thief, was shot and killed.  Though far from a normal life as a child, he at least had someone who cared for him in his own way.  The title reflects that Theo has never been--and never will be--truly happy since he was a small child.  The author blurb indicates SE was a ward of the state of Illinois from the ages of 13 to 18.  Though painful and incredibally difficult to read, Happy Baby sheds light on a group of people who most of us have little contact with and even less insight into what made them who they are.	2004-11-06
US	29181451	RN8DR9MMSDUM3	0195156994	258816537	Gluttony (The Seven Deadly Sins)	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Interesting but limited examination of gluttony	This volume of the Seven Deadly Sins series published by Oxford University Press based on lectures held at NYPL was interesting. Prose traces the history of gluttony and the changing view of gluttony throughout history. She devotes a chapter to the view of gluttony in modern culture and argues that there no longer exists the belief that gluttons will burn in hell but that they suffer a hell on earth as a result of a culture fixated on eternal youth. She does mention the harmful health results of gluttony but seems far too careful not to offend anyone.	2004-11-06
US	29181451	R1ZCWNDWWVGTZC	0618391126	941261274	The Perfect Mile: Three Athletes, One Goal, and Less Than Four Minutes to Achieve It	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Fantastic sports story	This is the account of three men--Wes Santee, Roger Bannister, and John Landy--and the race to break the four-minute mile. Though I vaguely recognized one name from my running days in high school, I was not certain who actually broke the record. Bascomb does an excellent job of keeping suspense at a high level. He also uses the story of these three to track the movement of sport to the commercial in the past half century. As I read this, I was reminded of the sheer joy of running. A wonderful and inspirational read.	2004-11-06
US	29181451	R1QANQIURGBQPF	1582344167	481973042	Jonathan Strange & Mr. Norrell	Books	5	9	13	N	N	Dickensian Magic	Reading this book is quite an experience.  Clarke does a fantastic job creating a tradition of magic--largely via footnotes--in England intertwined with the history of the country.  I did some background checks to try and figure out who was real and who was fictional.  Through their adventures Strange and Norrell encounter Sir Walter Scott, Lord Wellington, and Lord Byron to name but a few.  At close to 800 pages with a very small font, this is a book you really have to commit to spending some time with.  But, it is time well spent and the story and characters will stay with you for a long time.  This has been called by more than one reviewer \\"Hogwarts (or H.P.) for adults\\".  One reviewer commented that it fails because it does not have the clear delineation of good and evil present in H.P. or other fantasy literature.  This I feel is one of the book's strengths: it overcomes one this simplistic weakness of good characters vs. bad characters seemingly inherent in much genre fiction .  Like Le Carre's genre-busting novel _The Spy Who Came In From the Cold_, JS&MN paints the world (magical and otherwise) as a morally complex place where good and bad exist in the same people.  This is just one aspect of the novel.  There is so much more here.  Currently at number three on the NYTBS list, this novel deserves all the critical and commercial success that has been poured upon it.  I do not think it is too much to say that this novel will be read for years.	2004-11-06
US	29181451	R2M68WTJ2FAAZ5	0743261828	101671786	About Grace: A Novel	Books	5	5	8	N	N	Fantastic!	This is an amazing book.  It is intelligent, emotional, and magical.  The story centers on Henry Winler who dreams things before they happen. As a child in Anchorage, he dreams that a man will be killed by a bus; a few days later he relives his dream and wintesses a man dying.  As he grows he come to term with this strange ability.  Eventually, he marries and has a child.  In a vivid and recurring dream, he finds himself in a flood struggling to save his small daughter.  In the dream, the daughter drowns as he tries to wade to safety.  When rains begin and flooding starts, he reasons that if he is not there she will not die.  So, he flees home and goes as far away as is possible.  For years, he cannot return home and does not know if his daughter is alive.  What follows is a touching meditation on love, sorrow, loss, and redemption.  Throughout, Doerr uses the metaphor of snow crystas to point out the beauty in life and science that goes unnoticed.  Some of the plot seems a bit far-fetched and unlikely; I still enjoyed this book quite a bit.	2004-11-06
US	29181451	RKOSFIN58DEPW	0060595604	580267495	The Dog Fighter: A Novel	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Mixed feelings on this book.	I am not really sure how I feel about The Dog Fighter.  It is about an unnamed young man who wanders from Mexico to California where he kills a man and then to a city on the Baja Peninsula.  Once there, he is recruited to participate in fights with dogs.  In theory, the macho Hemingwayesque prose and characters are things that would instantly turn me off from a book.  On top of that, this is surely the most violent book I have ever read in my life (even more so than _Blood Meridian_).  But, as I read on I saw that the violence was necessary to the story in a Cormac McCarthy-kind-of-way.  The character's struggle to find himself and seek virtue and redemption reminded me of the best of Graham Greene (minus the Catholicism).  I have been pondering this book since I finished it last night.  This is the only book I have read in a long time that I have not formed a decisive opinion about once finishing it.  It had a tremendous impact on me and I think it just might be great literature.  The author's decision to use no punctuation other than periods got on my nerves at first and absorbed me by the end of the novel.   However, I know that this is incredibly difficult reading: it really is astonishingly violent in its depictions of fights with dogs and men.	2004-11-06
US	29181451	R37JHLVP7DAR68	140004071X	141181154	Project X (Alex Awards (Awards))	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Project X	This is the story of two eighth grade boys and their disaffected lives.  They have no friends other than each other and seem to hate everyone else.  This lack of friends has become such a defining characteristic for the two that when people try to reach out and befriend them they are blind to it.  Eventually, they decide to get revenge by planning a Columbine-style shootout.  Shepherd does an amazing job of depicting the delicate psyche of adolescents and how minor slights can escalate into a terrible tragedy.  He spares nothing here and presents a far more accurate and revealing depiction of disturbed youth than I have ever read.  Unlike the terrible Booker winner of last year, this is an important and substantive book on a disturbing topic.	2004-11-06
US	29181451	R1FO00S5PLWJUX	0393317560	910938208	Lone Star Swing	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Texas! Music!	McLean, a Scottish writer, discovered an old, scratchy LP of Bob Wills and was instantly became a fanatic for western swing, a music that dominated popular radio in the '30s and '40s and is now close to forgotten. After winning the Somerset Maugham Prize for his book of short stories, he decides to spend the money on a tour of Texas tracking down the surviving musicians who played western swing. On his journeys, he finds the Texas Wills and his associates sang about (in small towns) and a Texas overwhelmed by newer Trends (Austin, Fort Worth, etc.). An interesting tale of another guy obsessed with music. <br /> <br />	2004-11-06
US	29181451	R2EP4PJAOO96MM	1565124219	946647306	Candyfreak: A Journey through the Chocolate Underbelly of America	Books	5	3	4	N	Y	Scrumptious	I devoured this book. Though perhaps not the best reading material for someone trying to give up junk food, _Candyfreak_ was a delight from start to finish. Almond claims to have eaten candy every day of his life. Anyone who has ever mourned the discontinuation of a favorite candy or associates particular candies with stages of their life will love this book. Plus, Almond helps you discover several new candies.  My wife and I held a candy tasting party after reading this book.  Delightful!	2004-11-06
