US	29730643	R200R42PNPV8WP	1882580141	878951410	Audio Electronics the Pooge Chronicles	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Dated but useful audio upgrade handbook	This compilation of Audio Amateur articles offers a good deal of helpful information to would-be upgraders of stereo equipment. The specific boxes dealt with here are now mostly either obscure and hard to find or, in the case of the Marantz 7C, too valuable as a collectible to modify (most are now in Japan now at any rate.) However the principles shown here are still very relevant to modifiers or homebuilders of stereo equipment.      My only complaint is with the quality of many of the photographs in this book, which are quite poor. I still have the original articles from TAA and in them , the photos were substantially better. Should OCSL reprint this title I would urge them to reshoot these pages or add photo plates.     This book is still very much in print as of the date of my review, incidentally.	2005-01-13
US	29730643	RVYKWA8CC2RLC	0830623477	971917999	Engines for Homebuilt Aircraft and Ultralights	Books	2	5	5	N	N	An obsolete volume	This book is approximately 25 years old and is now obsolete. The direct drive VW engine is no longer common and a number of conversions and new designs are available, and the blower cooled 2-stroke is about gone from the scene.  <br /> <br /> The aircooled 1940's technology Lycoming and Continental certificated designs are still the most common power, but that reflects more a trend toward convenience and uniformity in the homebuilt market-people really want a production aircraft but want to be free of perceived high parts prices and maintenance and want airplanes more fun to fly and challenging than the Wichita product-than a failure of \\"the alternative\\".  Turboprop engines are showing up, in fact, in greater numbers, despite the cost and fuel burn. <br /> <br /> Except for a historical overview-what was popular in 1983-it's quite useless now.	2004-12-22
US	29730643	RN9MZ8QKQML2G	0830697330	420050280	Maintenance/overhaul guide to Lycoming aircraft engines (Modern aviation series)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Not a substitute for the Overhaul manual	This book contains an overview of maintenance and overhaul for the WWII-era-technology air-cooled Lycoming engines which unfortunately still power the vast majority of personal aircraft in the world. It is useful to people who have worked on other engines, to provide an overview of the procedures and tooling needed, but it contains little information not in the Lycoming or military manuals, which are available at reasonable cost in reprint form from suppliers in addition to the extremely expensive one from the folks at 652 Oliver Street. <br /> <br /> You will need to have the factory book with the most recent Table of Limits if you are working on this as a certificated aircraft engine. If you are using it as an experimental or airboat powerplant (are you sure you really want one of these overpriced museum pieces??) it's not necessary but can't be urged strongly enough because the first 'oops' will cost you a lot of money. <br /> <br /> Joe Christy was a good writer who turned out a lot of TAB-G/L books apparently for beer money,but he has been deceased-he lived to a considerable age-for several years now. So there are things that aren't covered in this book he probably would have. But by and large the Lycoming is still the same engine it was at the beginning of the postwar lightplane boom, and so this book is just as useful as it ever was-okay supplemental reading or for the armchair mechanic, but not the definitive (if dense) factory manual.	2004-12-22
US	29730643	RFKAKFLR14UY5	0830623078	901196596	Private Pilot's Medical Handbook (Modern Aviation Series)	Books	1	0	0	N	N	Obsolete	Although apparently still in print, this book is now wholly obsolete. Many conditions which would have denied an applicant a Class III medical are now waiverable and some new things are now prohibited. (When this book was written, a large segment of our population wasn't on medications now prohibited or requiring a waiver.) <br /> <br /> Do not rely on, consult, or circulate this book. Existing copies should be marked clearly as obsolete and of historical interest or destroyed.	2004-12-22
US	29730643	RT3S879UVB449	087112078X	477924997	Engines for homebuilt planes (Modern aircraft series)	Books	2	1	1	N	N	A long-obsolete book	Joe Christy was a prolific and competent aviation writer who wrote many short books for the G/L-TAB imprint as well as better publishers. This one is not poorly written or edited but it is an overview of suitable choices to power homebuilt aircraft circa 1977, its publication date. It is no longer current or useful, nor does it have historical value. Don't waste your money on it.	2004-12-22
US	29730643	R1I1GX49SZ5JC0	0830624570	644210635	The Piper Classics	Books	3	2	2	N	N	An old book, but so are the subjects	This is an overview of the fabric covered pre-Cherokee/Comanche Piper single engine line. It's moderately informative and its only failing is its age, as while the airplanes haven't changed the market for them has and so have regulations, user preferences, and market values. Airworthiness Directives are issued, fixes are designed, and new STC's are available for discretionary mods which alter the things you want to check for in some cases if you want to buy one.  <br /> <br /> Since they were made in quantity and all parts are available from PMA vendors, prospective buyers need to check with experienced mechanics and owners first before even considering buying one. However, for do-it-yourself oriented people, they are often a better choice of airplane than the Cherokees that followed them.  <br /> <br />	2004-12-22
US	29730643	R2ERCYG1OT8FJC	0609609424	876984753	The Bases Were Loaded (And So Was I)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A great read even for non-sports lovers	I am not a sports person. Except as sports figures have impacted the subjects I am interested in-I know Denny McLain was a good lounge organist who recorded fine albums; Joe DiMaggio was the second husband of Marilyn Monroe, was destroyed by her death (as was his son, then in the Marines), and possessed a bigger part of male anatomy than Secretariat; Thurman Munson was killed in one of the first SP Citations (earlier, identical ones legally required a two man crew, ridiculous because copilots were far more needed in light twins with GTSIO Continentals requiring a flight engineer to manage them than a \\"corporate jet\\" slower than a T-33 and which modified P-51 Mustangs could outrun at most altitudes)-sports don't interest me.      But Callahan's book did. He covers Larry Bird,Bobby Riggs and Billie Jean King, Wilt Chamberlain, Boris Becker, many other names (Palmer and Nicklaus,Pete Rose, and Graf and Seles) even someone like myself-who really does live under a rock sometimes-cannot not have heard. He makes them interesting as people, as with the older generations of sportswriters like Si Burick and Jimmy Cannon (a name well known to all Sinatraphiles, as with Jilly and Toots) who have now passed on. And his brief discussion of \\"the other Marilyn\\"-Marilyn Maxwell, a fine actress in her own right who really was named \\"Marvel Marilyn Maxwell\\" at birth, unlike Mary Ellen Miller and Norma Jeane Mortensen Dougherty DiMaggio, and who died sadly of a heart attack in her forties-was fascinating and left me curious enough to look up the above trivia.     In summation, he fascinates people with sports who don't even like sports. Like Howard Stern, who can make you laugh in a traffic jam, that's a singular thing. Bravo!	2004-11-24
US	29730643	RZ3HTVGGRAWTE	0936262877	838452933	Leica Camera Repair Handbook	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Acceptable introduction, not advance in the literature	Leicaphiles with a desire to work on SM and M mount Leicas have several books to choose from. Because the U.S. military purchased them in quantity and because military manuals are, when not classified, in the public domain there is the military manual: there are National Camera and Valera books which still circulate and have been reprinted by Ed Romney and others: and factory Leica repair documentation exists in some quantity even if not officially available \\"outside the trade\\". Romney and Lippincott have also written on Leica extensively as did Izaak Maizenberg in his Russian camera book, inasmuch as several Russian cameras were copies of Leicas. <br /> <br /> This covers the same stuff, and does a reasonable job, although some things such as curtain replacement aren't as covered as would be appropriate.  <br /> <br /> Although Leicas are among the better cameras to work on, they are valuable enough that they are best left alone by beginners. That sort of limits the legitimate market for a book such as this, so that although I think Tomosy has done a reasonable job, this is an area that really requires an exceptional effort to build on the available literature. I do encourage him to write more camera repair books but I hope he will concentrate more on areas where beginners and casual hobbyists can concentrate their efforts without incurring big bills for each 'oops'. Perhaps a book on mechanical 35mm Pentaxes or the electronic Bronicas that digital has made hobbyist-attractive (for electronic fans) on eBay might be in the future.	2004-11-24
US	29730643	R3EDW6WRT38TZA	0306808587	462451120	Making Tracks: The Rise Of Blondie	Books	4	3	4	N	N	The Blondie Book	This book consists of photos by Chris Stein-a fair to good amateur photographer-and text by Victor Bockris (a somewhat pedantic writer) of Deborah Harry's ongoing commentary, essentially, of her and her band's history from her childhood to the current state of the band when it was first published circa 1982. I can remember buying a copy when it was first introduced at a mall bookstore which is now a storefront church: I can even remember that the counter clerk's name was Lillian, the name of Debbie's character in the fine film \\"Union City\\". (She was less than impressed, commenting that Blondie was a terrible band and that no woman except for Janis Joplin should be allowed in the rock section in record stores. They were very much _record_ stores in those days-I had at that point never seen a CD.)     It's remarkable in that Debbie was as close to a major league rock star as she was ever to be in the United States at that point, and her observations-recorded when Madonna had yet to achieve any success-on fame and media attention are even more notable for the timeframe in which they were written.      The photos are the reason most fans, particularly males, bought the book. Debbie shows off her pert, teenlike assets (at well over 30 she had the body of a high school cheerleader, boyish compared to Jayne, Marilyn or Brigitte but very desirable nonetheless and far more feminine than, say, Jamie Lee Curtis, who was appearing in the altogether in films in that timeframe) brazenly, investigates the world (particularly Europe and the Far East) with curiosity and is shown with many of the rock and film icons of the past and then-present, including Chuck Berry (whom, Deb told this writer, attempted to finger her then), Robert Fripp, Ellie Greenwich, and others. Chris is with Pierre Salinger, Debbie-who never did get to meet her own primary idol Marilyn Monroe-wears a MM dress from \\"Some Like It Hot\\", which she bought at the time she and Chris lived in penury. (Sadly it was involved in a fire, it would now likely be worth tens of thousands of dollars-the gown Marilyn wore to serenade JFK sold for a seven figure (US$) sum.)     This book in short is a delightful piece of fluff from the era which still will fascinate fans of Blondie and the New York scene in those years. It's not a serious work and won't change anyone's life but anyone who likes the tasty rock music of Blondie, the underrated vocal and acting talents of Deborah Harry, or is fascinated by that place and time for edgy popular culture will enjoy this.	2004-10-17
US	29730643	R3HNIGED1XFUHW	0789731738	428039835	Upgrading and Repairing PCs (16th Edition)	Books	3	105	118	N	N	An old companion becomes less necessary	I have purchased three of the last five revisions of this book, and bought the latest as a matter of course when it first became available. It's the first one where I have wished that I had looked at it physically before purchase, because I would have not purchased it had I done so.      For many years, this volume has been an industry standard, on the desktops of tech support personnel, PC purchasing agents, vocational educators, and hobbyists. It has grown like Topsy with each revision, steadily becoming larger and larger as more and more detail regarding newer releases in x86-compatible desktop and mobile CPUs, bus types, form factors, and compatibility issues evolved. However, previous standards are described often in mind-numbing and wordy detail as well. While some editing has taken place, it's not nearly enough.     If you have one of the last two or three editions of this book, don't buy this one. It's just more paper weighing down your already sagging bookshelf. If you are starting from scratch, this may still be a useful book, but be warned: it's a colossal aggregation of data, much of it of historical interest only.      Much of the \\"legacy\\" data is of primary interest to embedded systems designers and developers, but Mueller is strictly a desktop person: embedded people will be frustrated with this volume. Also, Mueller is wholly Microsoft-centric, meaning that there is a lot of DOS and NT stuff in here but no Unix, Unix-like (Linux or Free/Open/NetBSD), or embeddable (VxWorks or QNX) information whatsoever. Considering the average Linux user is going to be far more likely to need this type of knowledge than the average Windows user, one gets the idea that  Mueller is just not comfortable with or even conversant with other environments than Microsoft and has elected to dodge the issue. Previously there was a \\"Linux Edition\\" of the book, where an outside team simply edited out the Microsoft discussion and put in some coverage of Linux video and sound configuration and some generic boilerplate. I find it a little disturbing because one simply can't consider oneself a computing professional in 2004 without a fair level of Unix competency:it just isn't credible.      Although the text is often shovelware, the accompanying DVD is a disappointment as the bundled software for disk testing and partitioning included in previous editions' disks is no longer included. Some previous editions had some very useful stuff including a fully functioning commercial partitioning program.     In my opinion the book should be blue-pencilled down to about 700 pages with much of the remainder put in .pdf format and put on the DVD.  Very classy would be providing a DVD and a bootable CD with a live OS enabling network and web access, disk utilities and so forth. We used to highly value the QNX Demo Disk floppies, the images for which are sadly no longer on the excellent QNX website, and perhaps QNX would allow their OS to be used for a flavorful and functional live CD to enable access of the outside world, M$ file systems on hard drives for copying or repair, and formatting and partitioning of hard disks and rewritable media. A DOS-based bootable CD might be less featureful but would at least enable disk repair and file editing and could be made with FreeDOS. Also, given the nature of the work, perhaps printing the book on \\"Bible paper\\" with a ruggedized but flexible cover-such as the Machinery's Handbook and other  professional reference works-would be a better choice than the current consumer-quality binding used on most Que hardbacks.	2004-10-17
US	29730643	R8RU35I7HJ88B	0970450745	951261236	Vintage Hi-Fi Price Guide 2003-2004	Books	2	4	4	N	N	An Arbitrary and Ridiculous Guide	I have no idea how the prices listed in this book were arrived at, and they bear little resemblance to any market for this equipment with which I am familiar. <br /> <br /> The market for \\"particularly desirable\\" tube hi-fi gear-particularly Marantz and McIntosh-is set primarily by overseas purchasers,traditionally (but not necessarily at this time) the Japanese. A current copy of 'Stereo Sound' or 'Musen to Jikken' magazines- available readily,if not cheaply, from Japanese booksellers in NYC and San Francisco-would provide guidance here. Other sources of values would include U.S. dealers-particularly, for McIntosh, Audio Classics,located near the factory in upstate New York-and, of course, eBay. <br /> <br /> Other items which are of primarily domestic hobbyist (rather than collector/speculator) interest, particularly Dynaco, are harder to valuate because the supply often exceeds demand and because so many have been extensively modified, which unquestionably can improve them as user equipment but which often limits their marketability, because buyers tend to be very specific in which modifications, if any, they would be interested in. <br /> <br /> This book simply shows no relationship to the market for this stuff as I have seen it. I wouldn't accuse the author of having simply invented this data, but I am at a total loss to think of any other explanation.	2004-09-13
US	29730643	RJ1KAH6EQZYZK	0922915776	972963705	Shit Magnet: One Man's Miraculous Ability to Absorb the World's Guilt	Books	4	29	35	N	N	Portland's Other Literary Low Pressure Sodium Light	James Thaddeus Goad is not, in any sense, innocent. He (in reality) singlehandedly produced the \\"zine\\" that effectively put paid to the self-referential, pompous,and usually inept zine culture, basically by being so offensive to the status quo that it simply gave up in frustration. He's been a poster boy for dubious judgment, pleading guilty to an offense that anyone else would have went to trial for and won, and served nearly three years. And, yes, he did the deed: he beat the snot out of a female, a mistress who had hit, tormented, and threatened him so badly that he had had a protection order taken out against her (he did, however, continue to have wild sex with her on a daily basis). Goad says-and it's absolutely true-that had he not been a notorious, politically offensive writer, he would probably have received counseling and a small fine for the offense which could have put him away until he was old enough for Social Security. <br /> <br /> All through the convoluted and often ugly story which this book tells-and quite competently-Goad realizes he's doing the wrong thing, for the wrong reasons, at the wrong time, and in the wrong place. Yet Goad-who is obviously intelligent, driven, physically fit, and obsessively introspective-seems doomed by his own compulsion to follow a path he realizes is going to cause him serious trouble. And, it does. <br /> <br /> Goad winds up in the Oregon correctional system, one of the few in the country where whites are not a minority, and serves his time without any life-threatening incidents: boredom, frustration, and petty annoyances are the order of the day, not shankings and rape. But Goad clearly does not belong in prison, and it's clear-not just to Goad, but to any rational observer-that Goad is far more victim than perpetrator here. <br /> <br /> This book, apparently written during Goad's incarceration, is a readable narrative and, for most of us, a reminder that free speech is never really free: alienate the wrong (orright) people enough and if they get the chance to nail you, they will.	2004-09-13
US	29730643	RG0AWFL3IVXCF	0953104907	293972050	Make Your Own Electric Guitar	Books	3	33	39	N	N	Useful information but not a comprehensive guide	This book is an informative discussion about guitar building, and shows Melvyn Hiscock's techniques and designs pretty well,but it is not a book to enable a person with no woodworking or shop experience to make a guitar without substantial additional resources and a fair amount of scrap wood being generated. One thing that my attempts at guitarmaking have taught me is that if you set even reasonably high standards for yourself, and practice every technique on scrap wood repeatedly first, you will still go through a fair amount of wood before you have a guitar you can wave under the nose of the salesman at the local PRS dealer with pride. <br /> <br /> Also, Hiscock is British and there are some differences between UK and American practice, both in terminology and in the way certain tools, and woods, are selected and used. (Sycamore is popular in England because of availabiility and because famous Brit builders such as Tony Zemaitis used it extensively, but no one in the U.S. does.) It doesn't interfere with the content of the book, but if you go into an Ace Hardware and ask for Perspex, you'll be given only a strange look rather than a sheet of Plexiglas.  <br /> <br /> This book is definitely better than some others, but would still be best used in conjunction with others, both guitar-specific and for general woodworking.	2004-09-12
US	29730643	RPYX7JXORUQV8	0060515163	343152070	Mr. S: My Life with Frank Sinatra	Books	3	3	8	N	N	Very entertaining but of dubious accuracy	George Jacobs paints Frank Sinatra as a man of enormous endowment. Not just anatomically-although that's covered in detail- but in terms of his talent, his drives, his neuroses, his friendships and ultimately his rejection of anyone he perceived as his enemy-even many who, despite his flaws, loved him. And there's no question that all of these statements are essentially true-none of it, from his temper, to his musical vision, to his \\"size\\", is news by now. <br /> <br /> \\"He's Caruso, Caravaggio, and Siffredi, all in one\\", said one of his fans.  <br /> <br /> But the most important thing to know about Frank Sinatra is not his Herculean sex life, nor that his mother was a powerful ward boss and abortionist, nor that he oversaw two Presidential inaugurations, nor that he raised millions for charity even as he hung out with the most ruthless of organized crime chieftains. Above all those details is one central fact: Francis Albert Sinatra was the greatest popular vocalist of all time. <br /> <br /> There are technically better singers-Tony Bennett comes to mind-although Frank at his best was equally proficient and even at his worst was in the ballpark of the best. There are singers who have sold more records, who have made more money, and in the fullness of time there will be singers who have had longer careers (and technically speaking, there already are). But as long as  vocalists walk up to a microphone and sing commercial music, Frank Sinatra will be the pinnacle, the gold standard of singing. <br /> <br /> Frank, along with the jazz singer Ella Fitzgerald, invented the concept of standards, of songs written last week or half a century ago, that were not just worth singing for topical appropriateness or novelty or nostalgia but because they were great songs that communicated universal truths that would be as relevant a century from now as they were when they were first written.  <br /> <br /> Sinatra, also, leveraged his initial popularity into being uniquely ableto sing what he viewed were the best songs, being singularly enabled to select the finest arrangers, the most skilled musicians and the most well suited recording facilities, and on top of all that, as his longtime pianist Bill Miller noted, the singular ability to walk out of a session when the tune or the arrangement weren't right (without losing the ability to go back and do it again, as in that era anyone else's career would have been over the second time, if not the first, they did so). Frank had both the power-based on sales, publicity,and the acknowledgement of his skill by his peers-and the judgment to utilize that power in the music's service. <br /> <br /> The rest is all ultimately trivia-fascinating, but not of the essence. Where I question the authenticity of that trivia is the company that Jacobs-who, to judge from the quotes I have read of recent interviews of his, probably couldn't have written this alone-has chosen to keep. William Stadiem is known for a previous volume on the great Marilyn Monroe which is of questionable veracity, and indeed this book deals with Marilyn Monroe (whom Frank genuinely loved, but whose housekeeping and hygiene, especially feminine, repulsed Frank-facts long since in the public domain-and whose death neither Sinatra nor anyone else who knew Monroe accepted as suicide) with some of the same dubious cast of characters. Particularly questionable as a source is alleged former professional golfer Jeanne Carmen, who claims to have been a close companion of Monroe in her last years but whom no reputable source can place in the same room with Monroe at any time. <br /> <br /> Read this book for entertainment,but not for provable fact.	2004-09-12
US	29730643	RXXYP5OKOZT0D	0711902321	358400724	Guitar Electronics for Musicians	Books	2	26	27	N	N	Not a very useful book	This volume, which has been around unchanged for at least 25 years, has a little useful theory and some diagrams of factory guitar wiring, most of which have fallen into obscurity as people keep going back to Strat, Tele, Les Paul styles. It is not terribly well written and while the most popular classic circuits are there, you can get those everywhere, including online for free.  <br /> <br /> If you want to learn to configure electric guitars to achieve goals you want, there are better choices, such as Adrian Legg's book, although it is more a list of things Legg has done rather than a thorough theory book. If you want to have easy access to useful documentation for service purposes, several volumes of wiring diagrams are available from Stewart-McDonald and other guitar vendors. Either way, this book isn't what you want. It should have been retired two decades ago.	2004-09-12
US	29730643	R169E29IVCL34N	0072227281	431776281	Build Your Own Server	Books	2	11	17	N	N	A mediocre book which panders to Microsoft	As a PC Assembly book, this is modestly useful, but there are a lot of PC assembly books out there. (Incidentally, I have not found a current title as concise and well written as \\"PC Hardware Configuration Guide : For DOS and Solaris\\" by Ledesma, which is ten years old and therefore of historical interest only.) It's expensive and there is very little difference between building a commodity Wintel PC for server, workstation, home PC or Gaming use other than which specific components to choose.)     Where it falls apart is its complete dependence on, and unsupportable and flatly wrong statements urging the user to use, Microsoft Server software. Usually, a legal copy of Windows Server and associated software client licenses and applications will exceed the cost of the hardware in a low end server installation, and it will usually use those resources far less efficiently and securely than will a Unix-based operating system. I suspect this is simply because he is lazy or because he wishes to curry favor with Microsoft-aligned organizations, although he well may believe that the average reader is just too dumb to learn Unix.     In this era, no one without basic Unix skills can consider themselves legitimately fit for any type of IT professional status. While I do not believe that Unix operating systems are always the best choice for server service-AS/400, VMS, and several others in addition to Microsoft Windows have legitimate places in many business environments-if one is seeking to minimize total costs and use low-cost commodity hardware efficiently with \\"Sweat equity\\" over expensive consultants or spending a large amount of time learning arcane skills-Unix-based Open Source operating systems and applications (such as Apache) are the legitimate default, not Windows Server. The only advantage of Windows Server over Unix-based NOSes,in fact, is in its ability to provide certain services to Windows clients: it is never easier to _correctly_ and _securely_ deploy. And it almost always requires substantially greater hardware resources.     In short, there are better PC hardware books and, if you really do need Microsoft NOS, better Microsoft books. And there's probably a better than even chance, if you are inclined to read this book, that in fact you don't need Microsoft.	2004-09-07
US	29730643	R1K0IIDRPWGVNK	1882193652	138947929	The Incredible Secret Money Machine II	Books	3	11	29	N	N	How To Be Like Don Lancaster	Don Lancaster is a long-time writer for hobby electronics publications who had his 15 minutes of fame with the publication of some moderately good introductory books on TTL and CMOS logic use, and a \\"TV Typewriter Cookbook\\" that detailed the use of the above to build a video ASCII device that could be easily adapted to be used as a terminal at the time that the S-100 hobby computer boom came about. Don was hailed as a great Guru and, unfortunately, he believed it. Still does, apparently. <br /> <br /> Don went on to champion the Apple ][ computer and the 6502 architecture, and later such ideas as using PostScript laser printers as general purpose computers and composing and laying out text in raw PostScript. Indeed, he maintained that anything which could be done by computer was best done in raw PostScript. When this idea failed to catch on-and indeed PostScript vanished except for use on network printers in Unix environments (which must have rankled the Unix-hating Lancaster even further)-Don retreated from the tech writing fray and makes his living selling surplus electrojunk on eBay. <br /> <br /> Don's technical writing and sociopolitical commentary can be amusing to read at times, along with that of such other cranks as Wayne Green and Ed Romney, but it should be kept firmly in mind that Don's methods, procedures, and attitudes have never made him any money to speak of, have never provided jobs for anyone, and have done little to influence the path of technology over the long haul (although arguably his TTL Cookbook speeded up the computer hobby-businesses that disrupted the mainframe and microcomputer world). I would never call Don an epsilon minus, but he's ofttimes not even wrong.	2004-09-07
US	29730643	RS3R5ED6FDZJK	3823803662	759152777	Milton's Marilyn: The Photographs of Milton H. Greene	Books	5	6	6	N	N	The greatest images of the greatest American female icon	Simply put, Milton Greene's photographs, as a group, place him first among equals of the group of Marilyn photographers,some now dead and a fair number still alive (as of this date),whose work-along with, of course, her theatrical motion pictures-are all we have of this enigmatic and emotionally compelling figure, dead 42 years now.     This book is available both in a small pocket edition and in a larger coffee-table version, and each has its purpose, although most will prefer the bigger one.     Greene's relationship with Monroe differed from others in that he was also her business partner in Marilyn Monroe Productions, the company they formed that was one of the first serious assaults on the then-reigning Hollywood studio system. It gave MM the contractual withal to have much more control over the types of films she did, and the standards to which they would be made, and discretion over her actual work (an example being the provision that she did not have to film while periodic) than was generally the case at that time.      This also provided Greene with insight as to Monroe's thought processes and a great deal of interaction with her personal life, which photographers not so affiliated wouldn't have.     While there are many fine portfolios of Monroe by many very fine photographers-George Barris,Eve Arnold, Richard Avedon-Greene's,as a whole, stand out as capturing the Marilyn Monroe essence. No one image of his is iconic in and of itself-it's only in the aggregate that his work dominates. If you are only allowed one volume of Monroe, this clearly is the one to get.	2004-08-07
US	29730643	R1DK2E7NMCH7QH	1879857944	188994222	Convert It!	Books	3	17	45	N	N	An Electric Car Conversion Book-Again	Since the converted Renaults of the late 1960s and the Mechanix Illustrated plans-built cars built on British sports car chassis in the early 1970s, a number of hobbyists and promoters have built electric cars out of regular production cars, with slowly improving but not radically worthwhile results. <br /> <br /> Not counting either the cost of one's own time and effort-it is a hobby project, after all-or the charging electricity, electric cars still don't make economic sense when you factor in the battery life cycle costs and the fact that most electric conversions won't go 60 miles at highway speeds-the round trip distance, with a stop at the supermarket, of most commuters-on one charge. Understanding employers who allow employees to charge their batterymobile while at work can help, but that covers only a few-and many of those would quit once the novelty factor wore off.  <br /> <br /> A hybrid car might make more sense, but the ideology of most of the electro-car crusaders won't have them building or promoting them. <br /> <br /> As with the burger grease burning advocates, this makes a suitable hobby project for those so amused and this book does a reasonable job of explaining the process. The actual hardware has changed somewhat-microcontroller based controls are de rigeur today and no one uses surplus turbine starting motor-generators any longer (to the relief of the warjet community,we are sure)-but the physics, and to a first approximation, the operating parameters, have not.	2004-08-05
US	29730643	R1MO01YB4I8240	0759609330	684362659	The Fame of a Dead Man's Deeds: An Up-Close Portrait of White Nationalist William Pierce	Books	4	35	36	N	N	An interesting book for readers of all viewpoints.	I am not a white racialist. I say this not because I feel the need to issue this disclaimer for Political Correctness, or out of fear that I may be considered such, but to explain my perspective on the life of William Pierce, head of the National Alliance.<br /><br /> My father was an undergraduate student under Dr. Pierce in the early 1960s and to this day doesn't understand how someone who impressed him as the most intelligent man on campus could have gone on to head an organization such as the Alliance.He did, however, feel that Griffin did a thorough and fair job of setting forth Pierce's belief system. I presented him with this book after having read it three times myself, out of sheer fascination with Griffin's superb, elegantly and straightforwardly written text on this enigmatic figure who my father had spoken of many times in our household. Astonishingly, as my father was describing him in awestruck admiration, Pierce was in the thick of conducting a political and organization-building activity that my father-and many if not indeed most educated Americans-would consider repellent and loathsome.<br /><br /> The formation of Pierce's belief system and the process he followed in translating these concepts into action are well described, as is the genesis of the National Alliance, the white racialist organization Pierce founded and which is considered by anti-racist and civil rights organizations to be the most intellectual and the most dangerous of all such outfits. Along the way, I gained an insight into the working of Pierce's mindset, and I think I understand him and his ideas, his worldview, his sense of life as well as one possibly could without having actually known him.<br /><br /> Although I cannot accept his fundamental thesis of White Supremacy for intellectual reasons, I think that to some extent one has to admire the courage of his convictions, because it is incredibly difficult for a bright young academic with early tenure to leave academia and goforth to promote an idea that obviously will make him an absolute pariah among his former colleagues, students, the media, and society in general. Griffin neither makes apologies for Pierce's views, nor the acts of members of Pierce's Alliance;however, he reports them without clouding them with his judgment. The reader understands fully the facts of life about the National Alliance, including the actions of Robert Mathews and his &quot;Order&quot;,which apparently made possible much of the National Alliance's access to facilities.<br /><br /> My only complaint is not with the book's content, but with its physical form: my copy had its covers curl up and fray at the edges within days after it arrived, and the spine split shortly thereafter. I had my copy professionally hardbound, but readers should expect that a book will not disintegrate within a few readings.I hope future printings will be bound with a more durable softcover.	2004-07-27
US	29730643	RTFMLZJ6S3I7	0140481621	773176336	After the Fall: A Play in Two Acts (Penguin Plays)	Books	3	14	15	N	N	A painful play to write and to see	Arthur Miller, having divorced actress Marilyn Monroe and married photographer Inge Morath, and in the aftermath of Monroe's still-controversial death, wrote this as part catharsis and part explanation of the recent events in his past. Treating Monroe as it does, it inspired a groundswell of revulsion for Miller that after forty years has not fully abated. <br /> <br /> Nonetheless, this is a fascinating work that on its own merits has some appeal.	2004-07-23
US	29730643	R1260E4YJJ0MA9	0967207908	728350513	Care and Repair of Classic Cameras for Photographers and Collectors	Books	4	31	32	N	N	Useful Manual of Mechanical Camera Repair	Joe Lippincott is a working photojournalist who took up repairing his own mechanical cameras out of necessity and has produced a very nice book on this subject.<br /> Lippincott covers all the bases of mechanical camera repair that he feels the beginning and intermediate technician or hobbyist is safely capable of, and directs readers to &quot;know when to say when&quot; and send the unit in to professional facilities with fixturing and experience in the particulars involved. He covers repair, tools needed, modifications, and use of these cameras, with detailed assembly descriptions in many cases.<br /> Previously, the Ed Romney book, &quot;Trade Secrets: Basic Training in Camera Repair&quot;, a volume published by Romney via toner process and GBC-bound, was the standard reference for beginners outside the &quot;secret society&quot; of professionals. Romney passed away in 1992, and his books suffered from time as hard use would cause them to disintegrate or the paper would age poorly-they were in essence photocopies.<br /> Also, many readers objected to Romnney's political and religious views which Romney occasionally digressed upon in his books and extensively on Usenet. Lippincott is strictly focused, makes no statements anyone anywhere could object to, and this book is very professionally offset print and bound.<br /> Lippincott's book is much more tightly focused than Romney's, which makes it less suitable as a casual primer or background read for the photographer just wanting an overview, but more useful to someone with good mechanical aptitude who wants to start in on a camera with minimal fuss. <br /> Romney's professional background in electronics-he wrote extensively on Amateur Radio and repair of vintage equipment-puts him ahead of Lippincott, who repeatedly refers to the unit of capacitance as the &quot;ferrung&quot; and shows little inclination for working on electronic cameras,in that department. <br /> Is Lippincott better than Romney? In some ways, clearly so, and in others I would prefer Romney's book combined with the specific service manual for the camera involved. (Many of which Romney reprinted as well.) The fact is, I like both of them and hopefully someone will eventually publish Romney's work in a proper book, preferably durably shop-manual bound on acid free paper. In the meantime, I recommend this book without reservation for people intent on repairing _mechanical_ cameras.	2004-06-20
US	29730643	RKR4DWB98IVVX	0817405267	205187787	Fine Figure Photography	Books	2	0	2	N	N	Deborah Harry in the buff, little other appeal	This book is in a certain demand because a young, mousy-brown-haired Debbie Harry-later to be the singer for the rock group Blondie-is shown in her skyclad, young (24-25) splendor. Other than that, it's simply a book on female nude art-photography modeling of which many appeared in the 1965-1980 timeframe. <br /> Harry, bluntly, is no Bardot or Monroe in 'figure impact'-she's pretty boyish,in all honesty. But in Europe and other non-US rock markets, she's as big a star as Mick Jagger or Prince, so this book does have a certain value especially in those markets.<br /> There are a lot of how-to texts on posing nude female models out there and this one has no particular advantage over current titles. If it's classic nudes you want to study, viewing the work of true masters like Bunny Yeager (particularly with Bettie Page) or Bert Stern (nude essayist of Monroe) will probably be more useful.	2004-06-20
US	29730643	R3TC28SXB3RYU2	0139311149	135126679	Troubleshooting, Servicing, and Theory of AM, FM, and FM Stereo Receivers (2nd Edition)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	The classic volume for Technicians and Hobbyists	This book, which was commonly used as a textbook in technician-level electronics programs and introductory engineering courses, is perhaps the best volume I have seen in explaining the basics of amplitude and frequency modulation and demodulation, basic receiver design, and the concomitant basics of audio amplification and reproduction. It is not an all-around electronics text and you should understand basic AC and DC electricity theory and use of basic test equipment before using it, but it effectively teaches superheterodyne theory and alignment and demodulation, covering both vacuum tubes and semiconductors. All radio hobbyists and audiophiles should own a copy, but I would eschew the facsimile in preference to an actual printed edition.	2004-06-18
US	29730643	R3ERD4UKEFOT8S	0830689680	831603663	How to convert your car, van, or pickup to diesel	Books	4	10	10	N	N	The Only Book of its type,Useful for older swaps	Surprisingly, this text by Paul Dempsey-whose other works for the often-dismal TAB imprint are actually very good-is the only extant text on installing a diesel engine in an automobile or light truck (which was not originally so constructed.) Because of the current dearth of diesel passenger cars and under-3/4 ton trucks on the US market, and the fact that all new diesels are electronically controlled, a diesel swap using an older-style diesel engine will appeal to a certain group of people.<br /> Mechanically controlled diesel engines, along with gas turbines, are unique in that they will run with no electrical system once started, important to off-roaders venturing far from civilization, and to &quot;survivalists&quot; worried about nuclear war or government pulse generators disabling the electronics of all car engines. More conventional users simply like the simplicity of diesel engines and their inherent higher efficiency than spark-ignition engines.<br /> This book was written in 1978, and is therefore of limited usefulnes with specifics on engines built in the last quarter-century, although some of the engines he discusses are still readily available. The SD22,25, and 33 Nissans can be found by searching, a plethora of mechanical Isuzu and Mits engines are out there, and for the masochistic or &quot;Urban Cowboy revivalist&quot; there is no shortage of 53 Series Detroit cores out there. No one will look seriously at the 350 Olds engine anymore (except for blocks and cranks to build 350 gas drag engines out of), but various VW inline fours are now powering Suzukis. <br /> Most of the issues involved in planning and executing a diesel swap are not peculiar to diesels, and engine swaps in later-model vehicles have gottten more and more complicated, but they're still done. At the outset, Dempsey warns readers that he does not cover or recommend swaps in front-wheel-drive or rear engine vehicles. At the time the book was written, FWD vehicles were a small segment of the market: they now comprise most vehicles on the road.<br /> If you have thought about keeping an old full-size car on the road despite today's gas prices (and are willing to spend the time and money) or are interested in alternate fuels, particularly biodiesel, this book still makes a good read.	2004-06-16
US	29730643	R1TW09VH8XE1N7	0936262591	194651081	Restoring Classic & Collectible Cameras	Books	3	9	9	N	N	A good supplement to his earlier books, but not a primer	This is not a good first book on camera repair, a distinction which has to be noted in contrast to his first book which is far more suitable as a primer. For the somewhat experienced phototechnician working on the classics covered in this book, it's a useful title. I would start with either his first two titles (Camera Maintenance and Repair 1 and 2),the classic Ed Romney text (Trade Secrets:Basic Training in Camera Repair), or if you can find them the old National Camera correspondence materials. <br /> That said, given the proliferation of specific books he has produced, they are informative and useful within their scope.	2004-06-14
US	29730643	R2QOXPU2KJA38U	0500276560	205895363	Collecting and Using Classic Cameras	Books	3	5	6	N	N	A useful but not authoritative text	Ivor Matanle may be the first writer on classic cameras to write of them not merely as baubles but working photographic equipment for contemporary use, and for that alone he deserves a certain kudos.<br /> However, I have several problems with this book, especially in this edition. From the other works he has done it's evident he's a good black-and-white photographer, but this printing doesn't reveal this: the quality of photoreproduction is not excellent.<br /> Matanle is British, and the American reader will note that there are differences in nomenclature, in the cameras and lenses that are readily available (many items common in Britain would never be seen here), and in practices and attitudes regarding using cameras and lenses. While it's good to be exposed to foreign viewpoints, we are two nations separated by an almost-common language sometimes.<br /> As a prime example, how could one cover &quot;classic cameras&quot; and not discuss Graflex? Simply put, although technically &quot;large format&quot; (at least in the most common 4x5 size, although there are smaller Graphics),no photographer's experience is complete without having used a Speed or Crown Graphic-handheld, with sheet film or a rollfilm back.<br /> Although most of the cameras available today would seem like alien implements to photographers of fifty years ago, the principles of photography have not changed, and in fact many of the best cameras-M Leica, Hasselblad, Rollei TLR (yes, still in production)-are substantially similar today as when Frank, Dean and Sammy were on the charts, Marilyn was still the hottest movie star, and John Glenn getting ready to orbit the Earth. Others are very different from anything made now, yet sometimes capable of very good work with a little knowledge, and more conducive to doing so than today's popular microprocesssor-controlled polycarbonate affairs which often simply get in the way of, rather than facilitate, good photography. In addition, a camera that's still working-or easily made so-after fifty years stands a good chance of working fifty years from now, which is almost certainly not true of some modern cameras.	2004-06-14
US	29730643	R2OWUG89M4TPWQ	1860746004	799075377	Picture This: Debbie Harry and Blondie by Mick Rock	Books	4	6	8	N	N	She Looks Good In Blue	As the song says, Deborah Harry looks good in blue-or wearing about anything, or, as shown in other photo essays but not this one, nothing at all.<br /> Within the first few pages, Mick Rock discusses one key aspect of the Harry iconography: although their facial structures are almost utterly different, Debbie manages to almost eerily evoke the image of her idol, the late Marilyn Monroe. Indeed, she does so far better than does Madonna (who made a much more conscious and public effort to do so) or Gwen Stefani, both of whom have more similarity in facial shape. Debbie has an unusually large cranial structure and an extremely wide face, factors that make her universally admired looks even more remarkable. Unfortunately, Rock fails to effectively deal with the issue, but this is of tertiary importance in a book that could as easily have no words at all.<br /> Rock is a thoroughly competent photographer by the standards of rock journalism, but he's no Sam Shaw, Cecil Beaton, George Barris, Eve Arnold, or any of the other classic era Leica/Rollei wielding pre-papparazi photographers, who made enduring idols not only of MM but so many of the other Classic Era actresses. As a result, a hundred years from now these images will probably be reviewed with interest, but not the unadulterated awe one might give to classic images of MM,Cyd Charisse, Ava Gardner,  Audrey Hepburn, Elizabeth Taylor or others, none of whom-even the now-canonized Monroe-were objectively \\"more beautiful\\" than Harry.<br /> These images-taken from too few photo shoots-are fine photographs on their own, and a fine document of Deborah Harry, who is a first-rate vocalist and a fine character actress who, unlike a lot of rock-and-roll stars, might have been as successful as _almost_ any of her childhood idols in the worlds of film and music in the pre-rock-and-antihero 40s and 50s and early 60s, before an awful August night in Brentwood and an equally bad November afternoon in Dallas turned a decade-and a nation-disillusioned and sour. <br /> Deborah Harry is, almost everywhere except her own country, a major league rock star, and this book is a decent exposition of part of the reason why: she's a stunning-looking woman who can effectively employ everything she's got. The other lies in her music, both the \\"classic five\\" Blondie albums and her daring and eminently competent modern jazz and standards work with the Jazz Passengers, Stewart Copeland, and others. If you have a backward cousin in, say, Kansas City, who thinks that rock and roll means boring and dopey AOR warhorses like REO Speedwagon, Styx, and Rush, this book and a couple of Blondie albums might do him, or her, a lot of good next holiday season.	2004-06-13
US	29730643	R3N57YSTE62P72	0306812142	121090842	Arthur Miller: His Life And Work	Books	4	10	11	N	N	A definitive work on an important but not Promethean figure	Arthur Asher Miller is famous, as this book's back cover sums up, for three things: his own body of work, his defiance of the House Un-American Activities Committee in the mid-1950s, and his marriage to &quot;the most famous of movie stars&quot; (Gottfried's quote), namely Marilyn Monroe. <br /> In his own country, Miller is, also as Gottfried says, unappreciated to the point of scorn. My only disappointment with this work-and it is a fine book-is that he does not explore this aspect of Miller's relationship to the &quot;vox populi&quot;, whom his work, like that of Rockwell and Springsteen, is supposed to relate to. My own observation is that one's attitude to Miller-as playwright, as 'Mr.Marilyn Monroe', as human being-often is, like an artificial horizon indicator of one's own sociopolitical attitudes. Those listing to port will invariably uphold Miller as the great conscience of his generation whilst those heading starboard will dismiss him pretty perfunctorily as merely another &quot;Intellectual&quot;, in the vein of those figures of derision Paul Johnson deftly skewers in his volume of that title.<br /> Actors, or those considering themselves as such, place Miller's work on a great pedestal, and the technical merits of his work are considerable and generally undisputed. However,Miller's sense of life, so to speak, is not essentially noble, but essentially fatalist and indifferent. <br /> Miller, personally, despite his wealth, critical success, and longevity-he's still working at 88-is not a figure one wants to view sympathetically, and I certainly do not. He left his first wife and ran off with a very public movie star whom he had ample reason to know would be very high maintenance, and, like an intricately built exotic car in the hands of a teenager, didn't maintain her well at all. While it's certain he had no direct involvement in her death, he was something of a negligent husband who failed to effectively deal with her dependencies on barbituates and psychoanalysis, and tormented her for her indiscretions with Yves Montand despite the fact that he'd done the same thing whilst she was married to Joe DiMaggio. To rub salt into the wounds, as percieved by the American public, he failed to attend her funeral and then proceeded to write a play (After the Fall)in which an unmistakably Monroe-alter-ego character is dealt with cruelly. Make no mistake, there are many theatre-goers who flatly hate Arthur Miller.<br /> Many of those will snort with indignation when they read, in this volume for perhaps the first time, that Miller's son (with third wife Inge Morath) was born with Down''s syndrome and perfunctorily institutionalized, or Miller's unprovoked attack on a journalist in 1995-inasmuch as he was 80 at the time, however, many may more disdain the journalist (a healthy male in his early thirties) for &quot;not besting the old Bolshevist&quot;, as one conservative commentator said. <br /> Ultimately, it's his work that will either uphold Miller as the great playwright-of his nation, of his century, even,as one actor avers in this book, along with Shakespeare,of his species-or merely an important but not overarching writer, and such grand judgments are only plausible many years,even decades, after one's death. While it's clear Gottfried believes the former to be the case, and I believe the latter, one virtue of his book is that I still can concede its excellence without endorsing the notion of Miller as the ultimate in any aspect, save that which appears on the back cover: as a concomitantly commercially successful, politically controversial, and romantically conspicuous celebrity at a noteworthy time and place. <br> <br> Arthur Miller, once the ultimate celebrity.	2004-06-13
US	29730643	R1JUUM5AAHB04E	0806524537	380564907	Marilyn: Her Life In Her Own Words: Her Life in Her Own Words : Marilyn Monroe's Revealing LastWords and Photographs	Books	5	59	64	N	N	An astounding book on an astounding subject	Born Norma Jeane Mortensen on 1 June 1926 c.e. and died 4 August 1962 under conditions still not well known, the woman called Marilyn Monroe was the most famous individual in the world at the time of her death. She still well may be. <br /> Any attempt to describe her career during her life, and the subsequent notoriety and attention to her image after her death, quickly becomes like describing the latest oil tanker, a study of superlatives. What is clear is that she was stunningly beautiful, quite intelligent, and rather troubled. However, much of the population of the United States is &quot;rather troubled&quot; and the vast majority  do not commit suicide. Neither, believes Barris, did she, and nor do I.<br /> This isn't a book on Marilyn Monroe's tragic death: it's a photo-essay centering on the last months of Monroe's life, a time when she was certainly in a state of change, but one in which she optimistically looked to the future. I suspect that is really Barris' motivation in publishing this collection, to establish that the memory of this woman, who he obviously had a great affinity with and affection for, should not be stigmatized as a suicide.<br /> Although her life was taken from her at far too early an age, an age at which her best years were clearly ahead and which invites speculation on what she would have done in the decades to come-indeed,she might still be working, as Lauren Bacall still is and Tony Randall did up until December 2003-I think MM should be thought of as a success rather than a tragic victim.<br /> These pictures are magnificent,a study in photographing people in general and women particularly, and technically astounding. The color images, almost certainly shot on the Kodachrome of the vintage, and thirty-some years old when the book was prepared for litho, have a lovely vintage tonality. A great model, a great photographer, great cameras and films, and some beautiful scenery in Southern California all add up to photos that would be worthwhile even if Marilyn had never been famous and were still alive baking cookies in Ohio. <br /> Shortly, it will have been 42 years since Marilyn Monroe lost her life in her small house on Fifth Helena Drive. Nevertheless,she is still the most famous of all movie stars, and she will be remembered and recognized on film probably as long as our species exists. This book evokes her triumph and her loss-and ours-as well as a book can, and few readers will not be reduced to tears at some point while studying it. Ultimately, though, we all must visit the place where she so early went to, and few of us will have had her impact on the world. Thank you, Marilyn, and George Barris too, for letting us see this beautiful creature as, for so short a time, she was.	2004-06-13
US	29730643	R1XXOXGE40RY95	0964106019	971548691	Tube Amp Talk for the Guitarist and Tech	Books	2	19	30	N	N	A Bunch of Opinions from one vendor	Gerald Weber is apparently an ex-meat distributor who ,without any formal electronics training or background, decided to go into the guitar amplifier business one fine afternoon. His flagship product seems to be a warts-and-all clone of the old &quot;Liz Taylor&quot; (4-10sky...a better joke in 1988 when he started this endeavor)Fender Bassman tweed amplifier. This is one of two volumes of his opinions and &quot;tricks&quot; regarding his ideas of what a guitar amplifier ought to sound like.<br /> The plus side is that he knows what he wants, he has a rudimentary knowledge of electronics, and by dogged experimentation he has arrived at what he, and some other people, like. <br /> The minus is that he realy isn't sure how he got there-he thinks he is, which is slightly dangerous-and little he says will help you if you want to go somewhere else. And, having learned the tricks of the trade but not really the trade,there's a lot of stuff here that's either questionable or outright wrong (such as his famous objection to DC filament supplies, which would make any broadcast engineer familiar with high power tubes chuckle in total disbelief).<br /> But if you are either reading just for entertainment, or already have a reasonable grasp of electronics and want &quot;Texas Tone Del Maximo&quot; ( a guitar sound some people love and others, myself included, would pay not to have to listen to), here you go.	2004-06-09
US	29730643	R4XDO6ICCQG1L	0071386211	83257483	Audio/Video Cable Installer's Pocket Guide (McGraw-Hill Pocket Reference)	Books	5	9	11	N	N	A First Rate Guide	Within its sphere of discussion, this is the best reference manual of its type. There is a lot not here concerning RF and power, but it's not an RF or power book. Steve Lampen is about the most knowledgeable 'wire man' around and this book should go with you each time you visit your local High End audio saloon or any other vendor of these products.	2004-06-08
US	29730643	R22CLEUGR2UNJR	0072227699	598737779	Build Your Own PC Home Entertainment System	Books	1	5	12	N	N	Consistently pessimal in every respect	This book was presented to me by my sister in the hope that I would build her such a system. After reading it, I came to the conclusion that not only would I not build such a system, but that no knowledgeable person would either. I can't conceive of any reason behind any of the choices he makes other than perhaps get some freebie hardware from the vendors he plugs in this book.<br /> &quot;Pessimal&quot; seems a strong word, but no other seems appropriate. Where does one start addressing his bad choices?<br /> Firstly, a PC does not make a very good stereo or home theater system, because of the overhead of a general purpose operating system and the poor optimization of the display and D/A technology vis-a-vis home theater or high-end audio components for their purposes. Yes, you can do all the things he speaks of, but you can't do them as well. (Although good audio gear is expensive, my speakers were made in 1978 and my power amplifiers originally constructed in 1959 and reworked by myself in the late 1980s. PC components, by contrast, have an economic half-life of around nine months to a year.)<br /> When that operating system is Microsoft Windows, you have the added problem of the extremely huge overhead, the lack of optimization inherent in general purpose computer software, and the simple fact that Windows, of any variant, is in simple computer science parameters mediocre-to-poor software. Because of the large numbers of awkward choices Windows' designers made for 'backwards compatibility' and to implement a big feature set in a minimum amount of time, from a large pool of programmers, Windows is just not suited very well to the task. A dedicated product such as QNX or the now-defunct BeOS would have drastically improved matters, but a Linux or FreeBSD distribution specifically designed for the task would have been a far better choice and could have been included with the book at very little additional cost. The author's one-sentence dismissal of Linux consistsof utter, provable nonsense.<br /> Computer speakers and sound systems are generally inferior not only to high-end stereo components, but even inexpensive hobbyist home recording gear. I would strongly look at inexpensive Mackie, Yamaha, or similar powered (active) monitor speakers before I would look at most anything specifically marketed to the computer segment. I would also keep in mind that even low-end pro audio users select sound cards substantially more expensive than the ones offered to consumer buyers, and for good reason. <br /> Finally, I very definitely would not use MaxBlast or any other proprietary program to format my HDD if I were running Windows (or any other OS). When you first install a drive, write zeroes to it using a program such as the ones offered by most drive vendors, then partition and format the drive from the installation CD of whichever OS you choose to run. Proprietary programs solve problems such as using larger drives in machines built before their size was supported, or running multiple OSes, but in a new clean instll these are not concerns-or if they are you need new hardware. Windows in particular likes its own partition and formatting routines.	2004-06-08
US	29730643	R1JQCZP8D6LH1O	0964084988	891789779	Home Theater for Everyone: A Practical Guide to Today's Home Entertainment Systems	Books	3	5	10	N	N	A mixed bag of good information and tommyrot	Much of the information in this book is good, but a couple of issues need to be addressed. Tomlinson Holman, a good engineer, is the man behind both the THX professional cinema house certification and the Home THX certification program for home theater components. I have a substantial issue with, particularly, the latter because it consists of a secret set of parameters, which are divulged only to licensees under nondisclosure. Because the requirements are themselves secret, how can anyone judge their validity, or the comparative value of the certification? <br /> Mr. Harley, on the other hand, is no engineer at all, nor even a hands-on amateur, but a promoter. He combines occasionally astute observations with technical nonsense, so that even when his conclusions appear to make sense you have no idea how he got there. Simply put, he often either doesn't know what he's talking about, or he does and is simply writing what equipment vendors and the gullible want said.	2004-06-08
US	29730643	R1JCFJW75MB19Z	0879307056	901292320	The Hammond Organ - Beauty in the B: Second Edition (Keyboard Musician's Library)	Books	2	7	21	N	N	Not a thorough research project	This book is better than nothing, it alerts potentially otherwise ignorant readers that Hammond organs have a distinct following, market value, and sources for parts and service. However, it is not thorough historically, technically, or musically.<br /> There are other organs besides Hammonds, there are other Hammonds besides B-3s hooked to Leslies, and other kinds of professsionally recorded music besides jazz and Chicago blues that people still enjoy-even Ken Griffin (although personally I can't stand him). It's a pretty lopsided look at an instrument with a lot of history, only a small slice of which is considered &quot;hip&quot; by the Jann Wenner-thinking people who control today's popular magazines. (I write this on June 1 of the year 78 MM-which brings to mind &quot;Specialization&quot;, a bouncy 1960 tune riffing on this very subject...)<br /> If you want a thorough Hammond education, I'd start with the original Hammond service manuals and brochures followed by some of the period literature for organ hobbyists, as well as print and web sites devoted to the sacred cows of Jimmy Smith, Jimmy McGriff and the DeFrancescos and their little branch of the big organ tree. Soap operas, Black churches, skating rinks and even the notorious Anton LaVey all have a place in Hammond history which the jazz organists are not overridingly more important than.	2004-06-02
US	29730643	R2WQ17NHNS50SC	0071379290	135130464	The Audiophile's Project Sourcebook: 80 High-Performance Audio Electronics Projects	Books	3	31	41	N	N	Amplifier projects but not good design: a cookbook	This is a smaller and more project-oriented version of this author's earlier book on building solid-state audio amplifiers. The amplifiers in this book are &quot;plain vanilla&quot; Class B direct-coupled transistor amplifiers, which will provide reasonable performance for utility or musical instrument use, but due to the lack of precision-matching of semiconductors and the &quot;more-is-better&quot; approach to using NFB, these are not going to compete in sound with Krell or Threshold. It's delusional to think otherwise.<br /> Rather than a clean sheet of paper engineering effort walking the reader through all aspects of these designs, this is basically a presentation of a completed design as &quot;the one true amp&quot;. I believe this author basically cookbooked these himself from works by Hood and others.<br /> More effort is made in this volume to explain the etching of printed circuit boards. It's my belief that this is inherently an unpleasant and messy task and that the PCB era coincided with the  near-death of hobby electronics in the U.S. for precisely that reason: much of the renaissance in audio hobbyist equipment building is soley due to the re-popularization of vacuum tube amplifiers built using 1950s techniques. (No ferric chloride involved.)<br /> Personally, I think this type of amplifier is more effectively bought than built today, but if what he has is what you want, it will probably work reasonably well and is at least built from common parts. Don't delude yourself that these are truly a high-end product: compare them to mass-production amplifiers costing a little more than the retail price of all the parts and you won't be disappointed.	2004-05-25
US	29730643	RQPPGDKAUUAHS	0233999574	100687738	Deborah Harry: Platinum Blonde	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Che's book is the best Deborah Harry volume so far	Cathay Che is obviously, first and foremost, a Blondie-and more specifically a Deborah Harry-fan who is also a New York scene writer of some accomplishment. She tells the Debbie Harry story about as well as anyone other than Deb herself could. I think it presents an accurate picture of an individual far more influential and musically significant than most people in America, including Deb herself, realize. <br />My disappointments with Che are few: she gives superfans and scenesters a great deal of space, rather than engaging individuals who really should be regarded as Harry's peers and colleagues. Che appears to have made no effort to have spoken with, say, Madonna, or Deb's 'Heavy' costar (and former MM roommate) Shelley Winters. (Che's assertion, in the book's first chapter, of the feelings &quot;all men&quot; have for the original blond bombshell is also mildly offensive to me.)<BR> <BR>Mick Jagger, Paul McCartney, and Pete Townshend have all publicly talked about Debbie and a paragraph from any of them would have been invaluable, as would commentary from, say, cinematographer Sam Shaw (who was still alive then and in NYC) or any of the other 'old schoolers' Harry interacted with in the '70s and '80s at the tail end of their careers. <br />Eventually, Harry has said, she will write herself of her own life, and that will probably be the definitive work on her. Until then, Che's book will stand the most significant book on Deborah Harry, and it has much to recommend it.	2004-05-10
US	29730643	R1V4GYTQ36W7KY	0895868709	465100780	Metal Fabricator's Handbook	Books	5	9	10	N	N	A first rate little book	Ought to be must reading not only for car guys but aircraft maintenance students, homebuilders, and for electronics hobbyists as well. Even if you aren't going to become as skilled as Mr. Fournier it helps to know what can and can't be done and what is involved, so you can intelligently talk to fabricators.	2004-05-08
US	29730643	R14JPFBBUK3IPZ	1855200171	990047527	Engine Swapping Tips and Techniques (Hot Rod Shop Series)	Books	3	1	3	N	N	An Old Book In New Cover	This is a barely updated book published as a Peterson's title in the late 70s, and while the basics (as applied to RWD cars with front engines) haven't changed, the laws have and so have the reasons for swapping in most cases. The most popular subjects for engine swaps today are four wheel drive vehicles, particularly outside the USA where no off-road vehicle is taken seriously without a diesel engine. <br /> A new edition of this book could be very good, especially if written with non-US readers as well as Americans in mind.	2004-05-08
US	29730643	R1DQX90NEUD9EO	0071351795	241457967	The Illustrated Buyer's Guide to Used Airplanes	Books	3	8	16	N	N	A reasonable guide to an unreasonable decision	Owning a personal aircraft,except for a very few people in unusual circumstances, simply does not make economic sense. It's a toy and, invariably, an expensive one. However, for those who want to fly, it's the best toy in the world, a source of immense satisfaction.<BR> <BR> Sadly, many people try to make what is invariably a purely emotional expenditure into a &quot;sensible&quot; one, and wind up spending almost as much money for a boring and unrewarding aircraft as they would have to go all the way and buy an airplane that will do what they really would like.<br /> The General Aviation industry, obsessed with promoting its wares as rational business decisions, foundered at the very time the speedboat, exotic car, and expensive motorcycle (read: Harley-Davidson) businesses blossomed. The reason is that these business openly vended their wares for what they were: expensive toys. No one tried, as Cessna and Piper have for forty years, to get even the most gullible affluent buyer of Cigarette boats and Ferraris that they were buying anything but fun and snob appeal.<br /> Personally, I find the wares of Wichita pretty deficient in the fun factor as compared to homebuilts and warbirds, and I'm not one of the few people with a legitimate business case-and there still are a (very) few-for owning a 310 or a Bonanza. But if you want to buy a certificated light aircraft, this book does offer a good insight into their respective strong and weak points and explains how the procedure of buying one is best managed. My main disagreement is with how the word &quot;investment&quot; is used with regard to aircraft not in revenue service. (If it isn't, it isn't an investment-and leaseback doesn't count.) If you want an investment, buy stocks, bonds or real estate-but, unless you're Southwest Airlines, never, ever an airplane.	2004-05-08
US	29730643	R3OOQCAZUUG3VU	0879307676	339609774	The Tube Amp Book - Deluxe Revised Edition  Book and Disk Package (Hardcover)	Books	2	80	86	N	N	Poor Image Quality Ruins Book's One Attribute	Aspen Pittman, whom I have met and talked to at several industry conventions such as NAMM and AES, is not a highly technical individual: in fact I doubt he even understands basic electronics. His book is therefore a compilation of a lot of schematics and (on Fenders) parts layouts for guitar amplifiers, and a few articles written by various tech writers, some of which are of merit and some of which aren't. <br /> The schematics are not very legible and many contain known errors. For this price, he could at least get that part right. I don't recommend this book unless you cannot find a needed schematic or layout anywhere else.	2004-05-08
US	29730643	R1QY3X3LJWF98R	1859606369	467282851	Build Your Own Sports Car for as Little as 250 and Race It!, 2nd Ed.	Books	5	16	17	N	N	The ultimate project car for the hardcore buildasaurus	The Locost is really a homebuilt-as in, from scratch-Lotus 7, and for the person with more time than money, it's a magnificently educational project. <br /> My only caveat is, it's tiny. Before you start cutting metal, at least sit in one , if you can't arrange a drive. Also, you may have to import components or scrounge very, very carefully in the US for the needed parts, as the English Fords the Locost is designed around are scarce on the ground in America. <br /> Ultimately, the American reader/builder would probably be better off with a scaled up version around common RWD Japanese and other common bits from U.S. junkyards and a bigger cockpit-Americans tend to be heftier than Europeans. Engines readily available in the U.S. such as the Quad 4 and the 20R/22R Toyota which make ideal sense, also, are a bit big for the Locost as designed.<br /> That doesn't take away from this book one iota-it's worth five stars for inspiration alone.	2004-05-08
US	29730643	RFZ6VMP180Q2O	0970722702	131441971	From the Fryer to the Fuel Tank: The Complete Guide to Using Vegetable Oil as an Alternative Fuel	Books	3	26	41	N	N	Entertaining, but not economically feasible for most people	If you want to do something like this for your own amusement, this is a good book. It explains the what, how, and why of making old burger grease into biodiesel fuel, and I suppose it would be a fun project for some people. I know of two people who have, with results just as described: yes, Virginia, it runs.<br /> Is it cost-effective as a source of fuel? Probably no. If you figure only your own time on a per-gallon basis, it's probably cheaper to pull up to the truck stop-before you fabricate any equipment, set aside the real estate, buy the wood alcohol and lye and the needed safety equipment to safely handle the incredibly caustic sodium methoxide, and set about getting the local burger joints to give you their used grease-a bigger challenge than the author expplains in many areas!<br /> My only other proviso is I wouldn't put the stuff in my only go-to-work vehicle. Until you have got the process down there's the danger of taking out expensive injection pumps and injectors with water, debris, and sodium methoxide. Biodiesel may also be incompatible with seals and bearings in some diesel systems, so I would buy a second hobby vehicle to tinker with, one that you are comfortable working on yourself. No diesel manufacturer will cover problems induced by homemade biofuel under warranty.	2004-05-08
US	29730643	R2EL6ZND3XAY74	0793534909	223038421	The Complete Guide to Guitar and Amp Maintenance: A Practical Manual for Every Guitar Player	Books	1	12	21	N	N	A poor book, period	Repairing guitar amplifiers, tube or solid-state, is not at all beyond intermediate to advanced electronic hobbyists-but you have to know electronics. You have to know DC and AC electricity, amplification basics, signal paths and how to read basic schematics _cold_,to have any hope of success. You also have to be competent at both &quot;wire and panel&quot; and through-hole PCB soldering. You should also have basic test equipment, not only a good multimeter but a signal source-not a guitar!!- a dummy load, and at least a signal tracer but preferably an oscilloscope of some sort. For a lot of reasons, I tend to judge technicians by how competent they are with an oscilloscope, the overwhelmingly single most important test instrument. (Even deaf people can and have successfully built and repaired audio gear with one.)<br /> It can be learned from books and practicing-but not from this one.	2004-05-07
US	29730643	RD3NT9K83EYLN	1882580036	175634156	Mullard Tube Circuits for Audio Amplifiers	Books	4	20	22	N	N	The 1958 State of the Art in Home Audio	If you wish to build vintage audio equipment, this book fills the bill nicely. The state of the art in 1958 was surprisingly good, the builder will bear in mind that the book is written for English reader/builders whose smaller homes and penchant for more efficient speakers even then placed emphasis on smaller amplifiers than Americans tended to prefer. On the other hand, it's precisely the little EL84-tubed amplifiers today's vintage-tweako element seems to prefer, and if you are unhappy with your project you can always recycle it into a guitar amplifier!<br /> The projects in this book can be built very cheaply today, the only big expense being the output transformers, and even these are not terribly costly. I believe the intermediate hobbyist will do much better to build from this book with modern components rather than throwing good money into forty-year-old mediocre products such as those now bringing large sums on eBay-with the exception of Mac and Marantz and some specialty or industrial/professional products, most fifties and sixties hi-fi units were actually not very good.	2004-05-07
US	29730643	R1W9ESXD6XO2ME	0233994963	100687738	Deborah Harry Platinum Blonde :BLONDIE	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Good insight from a qualified fan-observer	Cathay Che is obviously, first and foremost, a Blondie-and more specifically a Deborah Harry-fan who is also a New York scene writer of some accomplishment. She tells the Debbie Harry story about as well as anyone other than Deb herself could. I think it presents an accurate picture of an individual far more influential and musically significant than most people in America, including Deb herself, realize. <br /> My disappointments with Che are few: she gives superfans and scenesters a great deal of space, rather than engaging individuals who really should be regarded as Harry's peers and colleagues. Che appears to have made no effort to have spoken with, say, Madonna, or Deb's 'Heavy' costar (and former MM roommate) Shelley Winters. (Che's assertion, in the book's first chapter,of the feelings  &quot;all men&quot; have for the original blonde bombshell is also mildly offensive to me.) <br /> Mick Jagger, Paul McCartney, and Pete Townshend have all publicly talked about Debbie and a paragraph from any of them would have been invaluable, as would commentary from, say, cinematographer Sam Shaw (who was still alive then and in NYC) or any of the other 'old schoolers' Harry interacted with in the '70s and '80s at the tail end of their careers.<br /> Eventually, Harry has said, she will write herself of her own life, and that will probably be the definitive work on her. Until then, Che's book will stand the most significant book on Deborah Harry, and it has much to recommend it.	2004-05-05
US	29730643	R2N66589O6DY0G	0970450710	45859455	Vintage Hi-Fi Spotter's Guide-Volume 1	Books	1	5	5	N	N	Poor Reproduction and Limited Usefulness	It is just a compilation of advertising and period reviews for consumer hi-fi from the period listed. The reprint quality is dubious, many of the original magazines were beautifully printed and the quality of this is far worse.<br /> If you simply want a partial list of many popular hi-fi sets from the era, this will prove mildly informative, but if you are interested in serious sound reproduction or in the state of the technical art at that time, it's without value. Even from a cosmetic and style standpoint the reproduction quality makes it frustrating. I would avoid this series, especially at this price point.	2004-05-05
US	29730643	RWNITL4LE70UH	0071341196	51842316	High-Power Audio Amplifier Construction Manual	Books	2	10	18	N	N	A large poor book written around a small fair one	As a DIY guide for building class-B solid state audio power amps, this book has some merit. However, the author takes a great deal of space to attack the high-end audio business, denigrate vacuum tubes, and denounce &quot;audio subjectivism&quot;. There are those who will consider these worthy goals, but even they wil be disappointed in his eighth-grade forensics as he sets up strawmen with little facility.<br /> His foreword clearly brings to mind William Burroughs' famous comment on which  people, should one elect to do business with them, you should get any statements they make in writing!<br /> If for some reason you want to etch circuit boards and fabricate heatsink assemblies to build a type of amp you can buy from Crown or Peavey for less than the parts would cost a hobbyist, Slone's book is somewhat useful. His presentation of the theory is less comprehensible than that of Douglas Self, and assumes a reasonable amount of solid-state theory and the basics of feedback and stability, which many project-oriented hobbyists will lack.<br /> However, there are numerous better works on the theory and practice of solid-state amplification,should one wish to repair them or actually design one, and any discussion of the respective merits of solid-state versus tube amplifiers in audio service still starts with Russell O. Hamm's definitive JAES paper, &quot;Tubes versus Transistors: Is There a Difference?&quot;. It's interesting that Slone does not cite or acknowledge this document anywhere in this book, or in any other.<br /> It's worth noting that although there are many solid state amp designs hobby builders have constructed with excellent sonic reviews-published designs by Nelson Pass and Norman Thagard as well as clones of Quad and Krell commercial amps-probably twenty times as many tube amplifiers as solid-state are constructed by American hobby builders each year. I have built both and had success with both, and surprisingly, having started in hobby construction as a hard-core tube obsessive, I now think solid state has the edge. Slone's book, ultimately, does the case of solid state little good. Tube amplifiers are easier to build for most hobbyists, easier to fix, and their sonic flaws are invariably more euphonic than those of solid state amplifiers: solid state takes a lot more discipline to get right. By denying these obvious facts, Slone puts tube buffs in an even more confrontational position, which does no one any good.	2004-05-05
