US	29888707	R31C03XAG4N0R2	0449213943	15707610	All Quiet on the Western Front	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Bellum Omni Vorat	'War devours everything' is the general theme of Erich Maria Remarque's famous novel. The story is a first-person narrative detailing the life of its author, Paul Baumer, during the period of The Great War from 1916-1918. Baumer just graduated from high school and, like every other good German, he signs up for the war along with his classmates to serve his Fatherland: it is the ideal that has been pounded into them by their government, school teachers, and elders.  At first all gleaming with overconfidence, the narrator and his friends soon realize that there's no glory in war even if one has dutifuly served the Fatherland and received an Iron Cross pinned to their chest by the Kaiser himself.<br /><br />The narrative uses the characters to show how the reality of war, in one way or another, destroys or consumes the vitality of life: it is rich in showing the futility and beastiality of war. Remarque in effect explores the two main schools of thought that occupied intellectual discussion at the turn of the 20th century; positivists such as Bertrand Russel who thought that modern progress was a positive factor to humanity if guided by moral values and, the school of nihilism advanced by Schopenhauer, Nietzsche, and others arguing  that morality was simply a conventional rationalization of an objectively purposeless existence. Baumer and his friends are, at first, positivists: despite the war, they're all still obsessed with youthful notions of duty to the state and their dreams of becoming artists/writers, theologists, farmers, and foresters. When they arrive at the front, their sergeant is the sobering pragmatist who teaches the youths to dispense with their naive idealism and to bear only the brutal reality of war in their thoughts.  He teaches them the practical skills of good soldiering by keeping dry and finding good food.  He teaches them to survive by using their shovels to decapitate the enemy instead of the fixed bayonet. Slowly but surely, each of the narrator's friends become victims of the war despite their idealism: some of them are killed precisely because of their idealism. In short, the narrative subtly explores every possible facet of war in how it permanently destroys, disfigures, or otherwise changes life and the human spirit: it explores the utter futility and dehumanization of war. Although one follows Baumer's optimism throughout the story, one realizes that optimism ultimately changes nothing in terms of the reality of war: only one's perception of it. The story actually leaves the question open as to whether an optimistic outlook serves any purpose at all in either war or peace.  Remarque himself claims at the beginning of his work that it is not a critique or evaluation and certainly not an adventure story but simply an account of the lives of a few men fighting in a long and gruesome war.<br /><br />This is a great work on the horrors of war and particularly modern mechanized warfare.  Beyond the fact that it could have been avoided, the most horrid thing about WWI is the toll it took on the generations of men who fought in it.  By the war's end, about 75% of the male population ages 17-35 in Germany and France was either dead or permanently disabled by the war in one way or another.  Of those who were injured, many were amputees, horribly maimed/disfigured, or suffering permanent neurological damage from exposure to mustard gas.  WWI was also the last war in which soldiers had statistically a higher chance of dying from disease and deprivations than from combat; penicillin was yet to be discovered and medical facilities/care remained primitive.  Most limb injuries tended to be amputated to avoid scepsis and blood transfusions were not really known.  Most wounded soldiers died simply of blood loss/shock; those who survived often died from various viral/bacterial infections.  In reciting such grim details, Remarque's narrative is far from being a tragic epic in the style of the Iliad where great champions died gloriously in combat.  For Remarque, there's no glory in war; the only glory is to survive it.  Remarque's characters are only ordinary men who try to survive a horrid war the best they can.  None of the characters seek to be heroes in this story although many perform heroic feats to save their commarades.  This is a true classic of Western literature and is worthy of reading.	2005-09-07
US	29888707	R2M9LINUSSK923	0415032199	654604158	Lucullus: A Life (International Library of Sociology (Paperback))	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	The Roman Republic's Forgotten Hero	When people think about the great generals of the Late Roman Republic, most immediately think of Caesar and Pompey The Great; but there were other contemporaries who were equally great in their military prowess yet they were either denigrated by their contemporaries and/or surpassed in reputation by Caesar and Pompey. Arthur Keaveney is one of the first historians to present a thorough analysis of Lucius Licinius Lucullus, a great Roman leader who has been largely ignored by contemporary historians as an unimportant political player in the Late Republic. Arthur Keaveney reevaluates ancient sources to flush out a more accurate/less biased interpretation of this Roman hero.     Lucius Licinius Lucullus (c. 118-56 B.C.E.) was a plebeian noble who would come to have close ties with Sulla and his entourage. He was an ardent optimate and the cousin of Marcus Licinius Crassus, the triumvir. Sulla would become his mentor and keep him as his confidant: he made him the legal guardian of his son Faustus after his death in 77 B.C.E. The peak of his career came after his consulship in 74 B.C.E. when he embarked on the Mithridatic War in the East which had resurged. He would spend almost ten years fighting in Asia Minor against Mithridates and Tigranes until he was supplanted by Pompey's popular politics and Clodius' agitations among his men. As with Crassus, Lucullus was a bitter enemy of Pompey The Great commenting that he was like a carrion bird that feasted on prey killed by others. Returning for a triumph in 64 B.C.E. he retired from public life and became a great patron of Greek culture with an extensive library which he kept open for the public. An epicurean, he tended to follow a life of aesthetic pleasure with banquets and poetic recitals. He died around 56 B.C. One could perhaps call him the most honorable Roman of his times as, in addition to his remarkable military service, he was one of the few men who chose not to abase themselves to the populist politics and demagogueries of his day such as those of Caesar, Pompey, or even those of Cicero: he chose to retire from the chaotic politics of Rome to live a mostly private life instead.     Arthur Keaveney seeks to reevaluate Lucullus as a person and to account for the discrepancies in the classical sources. Plutarch is one of the main sources and treats him very positively but he is writing from a much later period when knowledge of Roman republican institutions was fading and where enough time had passed to allow for whitewashing. Contemporary sources such as Cicero are mixed in how they treat him. Although Cicero comments on his mastery of Greek and his competence in oratory and writing, he also critizes his epicurean ideals and love of Greek culture. Keaveney does a good job at explaining the sources of these biases and how they arose in the context of Roman values of the Late Republic. He shows that Hellenism in Rome was still rather new and that metaphysical subjects were generally treated with suspicion. Keaveney also reminds the reader that Cicero, although generally an optimate, favored Pompey who had no love for Lucullus. Keaveney also emphasizes that Lucullus did not completely remove himself from politics after his retirement but that he remained active in the optimate circles against Pompey and the First Triumvirate. These are general examples on how Keaveney deconstructs and reconstructs the classical sources on this facinating man.     This is a great book on the life of Lucullus. This is actually the only book in print on the subject while those that are out of print are either extremely hard to find or exhorbitantly expensive. This is a great book for those in classical studies giving additional insight on the characters of the great men of the Late Roman Republic and their dispositions. I wouldn't recommend this book for beginners as the subject would already require significant knowledge about antiquity and the Late Roman Republic. A good companion to this book would be Arthur Keaveney's book on Sulla. Together, both books provide a full picture of the lives of both men as mentor and apprentice.	2005-08-15
US	29888707	R2LASQQPUR1B6L	0674990072	552143247	Catullus, Tibullus, Pervigilium Veneris (Loeb Classical Library No. 6)	Books	5	7	11	N	N	Classic Poetry of the Late Republic/Early Empire	Gaius Valerius Catullus was a contemporary of Julius Caesar and was known for his provocative poetry.  In addition to Catullus, this great little edition by Loeb's has all of Tibullus (a later poet under the reign of Augustus) as well all in one edition.    Although Catullus wrote many erotic or amorous poems to men (he was bi-sexual) and his lover Lesbia, many of his poems are actually invectives attacking some of his contemporaries such as Julius Caesar.  One of his greatest invective works is the one against Egnatius which goes as follows:    \\"Egnatius, because he has white teeth, is eternally smiling. If people come to the prisoner's bench, when the counsel for the defense is making everyone cry, he smiles: if they are mourning at the funeral of a dear son, when the distrought mother is weeping for her only boy, he smiles: whatever it is, wherever he is, whatever he is doing, he smiles: it is a malady he has, neither an elegant one as I think, nor in good taste. So I must give you a bit of advice, my good Egnatius. If you were a Roman or a Sabine or Tiburtine or a plump Umbrian or a fat Etruscan, or a black and tusky Lanuvian, or a Transpadane (to touch my own people too), or anybody else who washes his teeth with clean water, I still should not like you to be always smiling; for there is nothing sillier than a silly laugh. As it is, you are a Celtiberian; now in the Celtiberian country everyone regularly brushes his teeth and ruddy gums in the morning with his piss; so that, the more highly polished your teeth are, the more urine they will prove to have passed your lips.\\"     If this type of poetry appeals to you, then you will probably like most of Catullus' works as well as other ancient Roman poetry.    The Loeb library is unique in that its classical texts are printed in both the original Latin text and English side-by-side. The translations are quite good and were done by competent scholars of classics whose choice of language is accurate, clear, and modern. These hard bound volumes are small but their covers are durable: the paper is of good quality. Good companions to this text would be Loeb's editions of Ovid's works and those of Martial who lived later in the Empire.	2005-08-08
US	29888707	R2H7LAD8T5NKYU	0938626647	855720269	Quintus Sertorius and the Legacy of Sulla	Books	5	13	13	N	Y	The Last Marian General	When people think of the great generals of the Late Roman Republic, most think of Pompey The Great and Julius Caesar but there were other more obscure men who were just as great in their military prowess such as Lucullus.  Another one of those men was Quintus Sertorius, the last Marian general who successfully repelled every commander sent against him in Spain for almost 12 years.  Phillip Spann does a great job at bringing this facinating character out of obscurity: recounting his exploits and exploring what his true motives may have been.    Quintus Sertorius was a Sabine knight (equites) and a rather stoic man who tended to follow the path of moderation.  He was extraordinarily brave and showed much endurance in war.  While fighting the Teutones and Cimbri under Caepio, he was severly wounded, lost an eye, and still had enough strength to swim across the Rhone with his armor on. He also had a very strong affinity for nature and animals making his Celtic retinues in Spain see him as a man blessed by the gods. His greatest qualities would indeed be demonstrated in Spain where he came from Italy to escape from Sulla and form a resistance movement in 83 B.C. It was there that he would fight Sulla's forces led by Metellus and Pompey for the next 12 years.  He outwitted his opponents with brilliant guerilla tactics all over Spain and Morrocco with a loyal following of Celtiberian and Mauretanian warriors who saw him as their new Hannibal.  His military prowess continued until his death undiminished as he was eventually betrayed and assassinated by Marcus Perperna, his 'noble' co-commander who resented being surpassed in prestige and authority by a mere commoner.    The primary source on Sertorius is Plutarch and most of Spann's work is based on this narrative source.  Spann also gathers all of the fragments of information on Sertorius recited by Cicero, Sallust, Pliny, etc.  The amount of information Spann gathers for this work is impressive even though he makes some mistakes typical in classical studies.  For example, in reciting Sertorius' early career, he states that Sertorius served under Quintus Servilius Caepio in Narbonese Gaul but he later confuses Caepio with a relative of the same name.  Apart from these minor errors, Spann does a great job at retracing where Sertorius carried out his campaigns, the Celtiberian tribes he relied on, and speculating as to his political motives.  Spann follows Plutarch's comments that Sertorius was tranquil and peaceful man who found himself forced to fight the Sullan forces for his own survival: arguing how he knew he was on Sulla's proscriptions and so essentially a dead man.  The only way he could survive was to fight Sulla's armies until the bitter end.  Spann's theory as to Sertorius' motives significantly deviate from those of previous scholars who saw Sertorius as an idealist or a champion of the populares.  Spann dispels those myths by pointing to the fact that Sertorius mainly supported Cinna but strongly opposed recalling Marius; he indicates how Sertorius led his army to kill all four thousand of Marius' blood thirsty freedmen who had carried out the massacres in Rome. Spann argues that Sertorius aligned with the Marians because Cinna and his party were the only ones that could advance his political career against Sulla. Sulla was a bitter opponent of the equites who, like Sertorius, generally supported Cinna and/or Marius.   Sulla had denied Sertorius the tribunate and supported the conservative cause of the patricians whose efforts in controlling the Senate would lead them to civil war against the supporters of Cinna and Marius.    This book is extremely valuable in the area of classical studies as there are few studies of this incredible character.  Most books on late republican figures focus on Caesar and Cicero.  There are even few books on Pompey The Great available in print.  Spann has done good work in flushing out the facts on Sertorius despite some of his minor mistakes. I strongly recommend this book to any one interested in classical studies or one of Rome's greatest but most obscure generals.	2005-08-02
US	29888707	R1EWCUX42L0JEC	0674991281	735048429	Sallust (Loeb Classical Library No. 116)	Books	5	20	20	N	N	A Great Recital of the Late Roman Republic's Turbulent Years	Crispus Sallustius (86-34 B.C.) was a plebeian who became a follower of Julius Caesar.  He himself admits to having had a turbulent and mischievous youth in which he was expelled from the Senate at one point.  This Loeb edition is probably the best purchase as it contains all of Sallust's works in one volume. Loeb is also one of the few publications that offers the reader the work in both its original Latin as well as in English.    Although the letters and speeches are interesting in their own right, the best works by Sallust are regarding the wars against Jurguthra and Catiline.  Both seek to show how immorality and corruption, almost in the style of Dostoyevsky, prevails among those who hold or seek to hold the reigns of power.  Juguthra was a Numidian/Moorish Prince who sought to take the throne from his brother by cajoling the Roman Senate who honored him for having served in Spain.  Jugurthra's thirst for power was his own demise as Rome soon went to war against him for his daring efforts.  Sallust approaches Catiline as the symptom of a social malaise resulting from a corrupt aristocracy.  Despite this framework to his monogram, Sallust is far less biased of Catiline than Cicero's account in his Catilinarian speeches. Catiline was a patrician whose family had not reached any high office for over two hundred years.  He served under Sulla and hoped to attain the consulship after his service with the dictator. As with many aristocrats, Catiline was in heavy debt and failed to win the consulship of 63 which he lost to Cicero and his patrician co-candidate.  He hated Cicero for having won the consulship without being anything more than a new man with no ancestral distinction. Feeling that Rome was lost to new men such as Cicero or other lowly plebeians, Catiline organized an intricate conspiracy to carry out a coup with other nobles and even Gauls to set Rome on fire and slaughter the nobility along with Cicero.  Cicero foiled his plot and Catiline chose to leaveRome to join his army of disenfranchized Marians, Sullan veterans, and whoever believed in his cause against the wealthy.  He engaged in a battle against Roman forces in the north and fought to the death along with most of his followers.    The other works are rhetorical speeches or letters attributed to Lepidus, Phillipus, Cotta, Pompey, Macer and Mithridates.  Although these are interesting to read, they are not as detailed or encompassing as his 'Wars.'  As with the invectives, they are probably to a great extent fabrications of the author's imagination as to what the persons would have said: a style seen as perfectly normal in antiquity.  The invectives are also pseudo-speeches but historians tend to think that they were not written by Sallust but merely attributed to him.    In any case, Sallustius is an important author as he is one of the few authors whose works we have who were involved with the politics of the Late Roman Republic and therefore were either first hand witnesses of the events or knew many who were.  This Loeb edition is again the best deal one can get for $21 as it has all of Sallust's works in one volume offering the reader the work in both its original Latin as well as in English.  Enjoy!	2005-07-06
US	29888707	R3RH7EGHLMNS3F	0679601996	543411005	The Count of Monte Cristo (Modern Library)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Sweet and Long Overdue Revenge	Apart from 'The Three Musketeers', this is probably Alexandre Dumas' most famous work and one of the greatest novels in Western literature: a novel every literate and educated person should read at least once in their lives. <br /> <br />In this story, Edmond Dantes is an innocent man who was caught in the intrigues of Napoleon's escape from Elba and his 100 days of power until Waterloo.  A sailor entrusted with a sealed letter of highest importance by his dying captain, Dantes delivers it into the hands of the evil prosecutor Villefort who, for reasons unkown to him, immediately sends him without trial or appeal to spend the rest of his days at the Chateau D'Iffe: a dark and isolated island prison presumed to be inescapable.  With the help of Abbot Faria, a dying prisoner who knows the secret of a great hidden treasure on the small islet of Monte Cristo, Dantes escapes and prepares to unleash his revenge on those who did him wrong. For years he spends his time meticulously preparing his vengeful scheme against the treacherous friends and characters who left him to rot in prison for years and years.  He refines his arts of disguise, alchemy, and manipulation to content himself with the ruin of his enemies. <br /> <br />Unlike the adventure themes in his works such as 'The Three Musketeers', this story is a deep character study on being the victim of utmost injustice and how cruel revenge is sweet after all: how a wronged man is entitled to become the agent of divine retribution when God and mortal laws have abandoned his cause.  The various themes, complex plot, profound character development, and rich prose makes this long work undoubtedly one of the greatest works of literature ever written: Dumas was without question a literary genius. <br /> <br />This is a great story for people of all ages and should not be ignored by anyone who has a profound love of literature.  I think this is Dumas greatest work far surpassing 'Queen Margo' 'The Three Musketeers' or 'The Corsican Brothers.'	2005-05-11
US	29888707	R3J3GDNKXV5IXP	046500721X	758212963	The Savage Wars Of Peace: Small Wars And The Rise Of American Power	Books	1	70	97	N	N	A Myopic Analysis of America's Small Wars	Although informative as to the many obscure conflicts involving the United States since the early 1800s, Mr. Boot's analysis and conclusions as to why these wars were fought is at best naive; indicating an infantile patriotic myopia that severely clouds his judgment as a historian. The work is therefore reduced to being an informative reference guide as to when, where, and how these conflicts occurred but not why.  The problem with Mr. Boot's analysis is that he justifies these conflicts based on their pretext as opposed to the actual motives that brought them into being. As with almost any war, pretext is only the rhetorical justification for the war but hardly the motivation for it: it is the means but not the end. In most cases, the rhetorical purpose is soon marginalized to achieve the war's primary and controlling purpose which is almost always based on strictly economic or geopolitical factors that are at odds with the inevitably same just and humanitarian pretext for war.  The call for a seemingly just cause to war is never an answer to the real motives behind that war; it is instead the study of the motives held by its human participants that determines the answer to such a question. Mr. Boot fails to recognize that principle in his work and it is a disservice to the general reader.  A perfect example distinguishing rhetorical and real objectives in war is the Spanish-American War of the late 19th century. Although the pretext for that war was to liberate an &#34;oppressed&#34; peoples from the Spanish crown, the real motivations, as with the Mexican-American War, were strictly territorial control: geopolitics. Specifically, the U.S. had reached such naval supremacy by the late 19th century that it needed strategic ports from which to manifest it: unfortunately for Spain, it happened to possess such ports in its ailing colonies (i.e. Phillipines, Samoa, Cuba, Guam, Puerto Rico, etc.) Thus, it was simply convenient for Spain to be an &#34;oppressive monarchyviolating the Monroe Doctrine&#34; in control of these territories as it was a perfect pretext for hostilities: the pretext providing a justification for the main objective of territorial control. The reality is that the U.S. would probably have taken military action even if these colonial territories were independent democratic states because the real reason for war was that a foreign country (regardless of political structure) refused to provide its ports to a foreign navy (i.e. the U.S. Navy and USMC specifically.) Finally, Given the U.S.' open support and participation in brutal campaigns against indigenous peoples of these countries with the corrupt pseudo-democratic regimes it planted there until all too recently (e.g. Batista in Cuba and Marcos in the Phillipines) to continue its control of naval bases, one begins to wonder whether ideals of freedom or realpolitik were the primary motives for these conflicts. I think that any half-intelligent person without blind patriotic bias will really consider the latter as opposed to the former as the most likely conclusion.  This conflict is but a small example of the countless small engagements the U.S. has initiated/participated in to carry out its strategic interests under the pretextual guise of &#34;freedom.&#34; In most of these cases, 'freedom' means nothing more than political and economic exploitation of a weaker state with some trivial political and economic concessions to appear good-hearted. It is both interesting and unfortunate that Boot doesn't explore in more detail the methods used by the US in the name of democracy such as supporting the Diem regime in Vietnam and the coup d'etat in Chile by Pinochet, not to mention its open support of Saddam Hussein against Iran and for oil deals despite knowing--if not endorsing--of its brutally oppressive tactics against innocent civilians such as the Kurds and Shiites.  All of these cruel and corrupt dictators were sponsored by the U.S. and responsible for killingthousands of innocent civilians to promote the 'freedom' of exploitative business interests and little else.  Lucrative financial interests that corporations exploit abroad at the expense of the true, albeit powerless, local majority who remain destitute in a country that has been transformed into little more than a dependent client state.  The military and political information Boot uses for his work is not sufficient in outlining the historical, social, and political principles at work in the phenomenon of war and so this book is horribly limited in explaining these conflicts.  Typically, direct military and political accounts of these conflicts are the direct origin of all propaganda in the first place: this has always been true from the time of even Caesar. This book is therefore essentially nothing more than a promotion of blind patriotic zeal for U.S. military actions under the guise of an objective historical analysis founded in the limited range of information from political or military sources.  Quite frankly, this book is too biased and narrow-minded to be worthy of being called a work of history: it is primarily a work of historical propaganda no different than its sources: a Marine Corps recruitment brochure and little else. This book is as revealing on the real motives behind U.S. interventions abroad as a military marching band. In sum, the book is very detailed as to the 'whens' and 'hows' of these conflicts but rather dark as to the 'whys.'  One can always read an almanac for the whens and hows where the information will be in a shorter format and just as explanatory.  As it is, this book essentially encourages the reader to accept a naive view of U.S. politics that is based upon nothing more than sheepish patriotism and group-think: read with caution!  As an alternative to this kind of jar-head tripe posing as history or political science, I would recommend the works of more objective authors such as Henry Kissinger.	2005-05-10
US	29888707	R32ZA2588Z9SU8	0952614766	943180751	The Biggest Secret: The Book That Will Change the World (Updated Second Edition)	Books	1	32	47	N	N	Argumentum ad Absurdium	Unless you are of a credulant disposition ready to believe the slightest conjectures and leaps in logic as proof of a broad (broad being an understatement!) conspiracy theory, just don't bother reading anything by David Icke as he has nothing to offer for the sound and rational mind to ponder over.  Remember, this 'sound' theory is presented by someone who, not too long ago, publicly proclaimed that he was Jesus Christ with warnings about an imminent Judgment Day only to later recant his claims as to his divine identity.    Icke's new theory is no longer on his divine origins from The Holy Trinity but that humanity is the product of a  breeding experiment carried out by exploitatively cruel and tyrannical reptilian extraterrestrials (he even goes so far to suggest they might be highly evolved dinosaurs! Yes, of course, they're the Slistaks from 'Land of the Lost'!  It's so clear to me now!) who have been monitoring our evolution since our arrival upon this Earth.  Supposedly this breed of reptiles has been most active in interbreeding with Western Europeans and Jews, thus explaining the latter's cold calculative and exploitative traits in comparison with the rest of humanity (the only thing he proves here is that he's an anti-semite and anti-white biggot!)  According to him, this conspiracy continues to manifest itself through elected officials, royalty, scientists, the military... well, you know, the usual suspects in these types of conspiracy theories. These aliens and conspirators can shape-shift and teleport to avoid detection of course and that's why they're so elusive and powerful.  In turn, such leadership is involved in sinister Satanic rituals in secret locations such as subterranean complexes where they indulge in orgiastic feasts and human sacrifice.  In short, just watch Carpenter's 'They Live' or the TV series 'V' or read Lovecraft's Cthulluh myths and you get the jist of his argument.    The dementia/paranoid delusions of the author and the absurdity of his proposition are immediately evident to any reader of average education and sober mind.  The conjecture is so laughable that I couldn't continue reading due to the tears from my eyes smudging the pages of this farce of a book.  At one point he explains that the late Carl Sagan was a collaborator with these evil reptilian aliens as, (1) He had a strange fascination with extra-terrestrial life and the cosmos; (2) he was a scientist and a Jew, groups normally part of this conspiracy anyway and, (3) 'Sagan' spelled backwards is 'Nagas' which is a Hindu serpent god therefore, (4) Carl Sagan is a reptilian alien deceiving the public about the truth of extraterrestrial life and his participation in a global/galactic/intergalactic alien conspiracy to dominate humanity and exploit the Earth.  Wow!  I have seen the light!  How could I have been so blind all these years!? Icke is not a deranged and uneducated retired soccer player but a true progeny and genius historian, anthropologist, physicist, astronomer, philosopher, etc.  Icke is also a world reknown linguist on par with Noam Chomsky; convinced that a translation from Sanskrit to the Roman alphabet of the word 'Nagas' is conclusive proof that mythological serpent gods, evil reptilian aliens, and conspiratorial Jewish astronomers/physicists are all one and the same. Icke goes on to boldly state that Relativity and the Heisenberg principle are false/obsolete scientific theories superceded by a completely new domain of physics/quantum mechanics which he never bothers to explain; he simply makes reference to some obscure physicist whose theories no one has heard of or accepted in the scientific community at large: but remember, his strange theories were rejected because most physicists and other scientists are part of the alien conspiracy (Of course! How could I be so dismissive! Remember the Sagan/Nagas paradox is irrefutable proof of that conspiracy!)     Following Icke's reasoning one can reach countless conclusionsthat are all equally absurd because such line of reasoning is illogical; for example, my dog must be god because 'dog' spelled backwards is 'god': with his revelations in proper reasoning I have been enlightened as to the divine scheme of things: those must be signs!  What else could they be?!  I must now read more of Icke's works to know the whole truth as to what my dog might have in store for me: maybe I have to build a temple in veneration to his divinity!  Perhaps we are being controlled by half-human/half-dog aliens who pretend to be gods but really control our minds through our innocent-looking canine companions! This is clearly true as it has been shown in films such as Spaceballs with the Mog character played by John Candy; Mel Brooks produced the film and he is Jewish after all and, Jews are part of the conspiracy without question anyway. Anubis was also a half-canine half-human deity in Ancient Egypt who held the keys to the underworld which clearly symbolizes the presence of these human-dog aliens on Earth and nothing less: the Jews were in ancient Egypt too by the way and were clearly collaborating with Anubis.  The U.K., France, and the U.S. all have obelisks in their capitals which are ancient Egyptian symbols and Anubis was Egyptian too.  It must therefore also be a certainty that the conspiracy is being perpetuated today by the Purina and Alpo companies that are controlled by Jewish stockholders who are in collusion in covering up this evil canine conspiracy and just turning all of us humans into dog food for their consumption!  Such lines of reasoning are defined as logical fallacies of red herring, ad absurdium, or non-sequitur, and cannot be the basis for any rational or scientific discussion of any sort.    Anyway... if you're a reader of sober judgment who wants sociological/scientific theories supported by logic and the scientific method, don't bother reading this book as it is nothing but an arrangement of fantastic/absurd postulations basedon pure conjecture and hyperbolations: the logical fallacies in this work are too many to recite in this brief review.  At best, David Icke is a writer with a sick sense of humor who thrives on having his anti-western/anti-semitic fantasies taken as fact by a loyal readership comprised of the credulant and mentally ill; at worst, he is a person who suffers from one or more dissociative disorders ranging from psychotic dementia, lunacy, mania, paranoia, or he is simply a full-blown paranoid schizophrenic.  Don't waste your time with this garbage pseudo-science and watch some good science fiction instead so you won't die laughing.  Although I am not dismissive of the possibility of extraterrestrial life, I choose to found my conclusions on empirical observations and sound logic: I wouldn't base my conclusions or even inquiries on such matters upon the absurd postulations presented by this demented imbecile of an author.	2005-05-04
US	29888707	RH0AKNAC6FRZ4	0306808641	860718184	My Rise And Fall	Books	5	17	21	N	Y	A Priceless Historical Account By Il Duce Himself	This book is actually a compilation of Benito Mussolini's memoirs set approximately 16 years apart: the first being dated c. 1928 only eight years after his Fascisti 'Black Shirts' had assumed power in Rome by plebescite; the second being dated c. 1944 when the Fascist party in Italy was able to retain power only with Germany's occupation and Mussolini's 'rescue' by  German forces. <br /> <br />When it comes to Mussolini, most modern readers immediately compare him to Adolf Hitler even though they understand little of what brought fascism to Italy or why Mussolini was so well received at home and abroad.  Contrary to what many believe, Mussolini never had a very high opinion of Adolf Hitler and tried desperately to form a political pact with France/England with regards to Italy's future: Mussolini remained opposed to Hitler because Germany was unified with Italy's arch-enemy, Austria: Mussolini formed the ill-fated axis alliance only at the last minute when he was unable to get the concessions he wanted and Germany formally declared war against France in 1940.  It would be his demise as Mussolini and his party would lose power in Italy by 1943 and, instead of the great empire they had promised to the Italian populace, Italy had become a vassal state occupied by the German military: Mussolini himself being nothing more than Hitler's puppet and mouthpiece.  Thus, through his memoirs, we can follow how he was a favorite defender of freedom against Boshevism in the 20s and 30s adored by the US and England, to becoming nothing more than Hitler's lapdog by 1943. <br /> <br />This is a very important book where, by his own words, one can measure the man for who he was.  Unlike Hitler's rambling anti-semitic diatribe in 'Mein Kampf', Mussolini's papers address purely political and social questions adding with his rather pompous flair that he and his Fascisti are an indispensable to the formation and prosperity of the state.  He explains why he was motivated to act and describes the political environment he found himself in fighting the socialist, communist, and capitalist interests in Italy.  His memoirs are not only interesting from a historical perspective, but also from a political one in that they provide a lot of insight as to the events that were responsible for the development of fascist doctrines in Europe in that period of time.	2005-05-02
US	29888707	R2ANQ7NV6XKHQF	0715621254	455092769	Hellenism in the East: The Interaction of Greek and Non-Greek Civilizations from Syria to Central Asia After Alexander	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Call To Reevaluate The Seleucid Empire	This compilation on the Seleucid Empire calls for an interdisciplinary approach to studying the largest of the dynastic empires to follow Alexander The Great.  The text is more of a scholarly review addressed primarily to people working in the field of classical studies, archeology, and anthropology.  Although perhaps not a book that would be of interest to the casual reader of history, Susan Sherwin-White and Amelie Kurt are two of few historians who have bothered to question the commonly accepted theories as to the evolution of the Seleucid Empire.    Susan Sherwin-White and Amelie Kurt evaluate new findings that were made indicating that the Seleucid Empire was not simply a Greek culture and state that arose out of thin air to impose itself upon the Persian Empire's former subjects.  Previous scholars have approached the subject with a flawed paradigm in concluding that Seleucid monarchs reinvented the wheel after Alexander's defeat of Persia by imposing a ruthless policy of colonialism and maintaining a society segregated between Greeks and non-Greeks.  As a result, historians have been looking only at artifacts and texts reflecting Greek culture or values to make their conclusions while ignoring everything else.  White and Khurt, along with respected scholars such as Erich Gruen, present and interpret new findings in numismatic, archeological, and textual areas to dispute this false paradigm such as cuneiform scripts used by Greeks, architectural fusion of Greek and Eastern styles, etc.    As with their other book 'From Samarkhand to Sardis', this book is a major contribution to the study of the Seleucids as previous scholars such as Tarn simply didn't have the knowledge of the major archeological finds that were uncovered after he published his works in the mid-twentieth century. I strongly recommend this book to anyone who is seriously in need of important and recent information on the Seleucid empire. The book is hard to find and I recommend you get it as soon as it becomes available. It's possible that another edition is on the way but that may be long in the future if ever at all. Again,  the book is not suited for the casual reader as one would at least need to have a thorough background on Alexander The Great if not Persian and Greek history: the book is primarily targeted towards an academic audience and not the general reader. The book is also expensive at $50+ and not really in the price range of someone who only has a limited interest in the subject. A very good book to go with this one is A. K. Narain's 'Coin Types of the Indo-Greek Kings\\" that focuses on the Seleucid kingdoms of the Indus valley and Bactria: its several studies focus primarily on numismatic evidence along with archeological and literary sources.  The works and theories of the authors as to the development and administration of the Seleucid kingdoms complement each other and therefore make a great pair of books to own.	2005-04-29
US	29888707	R1HWU3AO8QVU6L	0613279085	480438914	Ivanhoe (Tor Ed.)	Books	5	17	18	N	N	Artists Are Judged On Their Works Not Their Lives	In response to the horrible review preceding my own, I feel that a proper review of Sir Walter Scott's 'Ivanhoe', one of the greatest Western novels ever written, is in order as an artist's contribution to the world is measured by his art and not how he lived his life: even artists with maniacal and criminal tendencies such as Richard Wagner or Hector Berlioz were deemed great because of their work and not the wretched lives they led. If one is to follow the previous reviewer's logic then we may as well discount Coolidge, Poe, Baudelaire, Fitzgerald, or Hemingway as literary figures as they all had pretty pathetic lives in one way or another.    The story is set in 12th century England under the rule of Richard The Lion Hearted who spent most of his reign in the Holy Land fighting the Third Crusade.  In his absence ruled his brother Prince John whose licentious habits made him unpopular amongst his disenfranchized Saxon subjects.  Saxon England had been recently subjugated by the Normans under William The Conqueror of whom Richard and John were his royal descendants.  The Normans had low opinions as to their Saxon subjects and imposed their French culture and laws upon them with impunity. Ivanhoe is the champion Saxon knight of an imprisoned Richard The Lion Hearted and is seen as the cause of his King's woes by everyone in England including Cedric, his father, who disinherits him.  Returning anonymously to England, Ivanhoe must prove his valor and clear his name before being joined with his promised love, Rowena, who has been betrothed to Lord Athelstane during his absence.  In alliance with Prince John against Ivanhoe are the Templar knights whose champion, Sir Brian De Bois-Guilbert, knows the truth of Ivanhoe's innocence but is bound to keep it a secret.  In all his woes, Ivanhoe is helped by Rebecca and her father Isaac of York who, as Jews, are as equally outcast as he. Ivanhoe also receives the aid of the mysterious Black Knight who, like him, has some questwhich requires his anonymity.  The climax comes when Saxons join together with Robin Hood and his Merry Men as well as the Black Knight to fight off the evil Templars and the usurpatious Prince John.    This is one of the greatest romantic novels of Western literature that is filled with action, drama, and passion.  Sir Walter Scott is incredibly detailed in all of the traditions, customs, and fashions of the period so that it would seem to be almost a source narrative: he did his research as any true attorney would in preparing his case.  Don't be influenced or persuaded by the ridiculous review preceding this one as an artist's life is not a measure of his work, instead, it is but plainly obvious that it is an artist's work that is the measure of his life!	2005-04-28
US	29888707	R16G5FPGH9AMMI	0801877318	330499202	Gestures and Acclamations in Ancient Rome (Ancient Society and History)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Expanding Our Knowledge Of Roman Elocution	Gregory S. Aldrete's work on Roman rhetoric is an important addition to the study of Roman history and the practice of elocution during the Republic and Principate.  Although primarily focusing on non-verbal communication, this book is an important companion to Corbeil's 'Controlling Laughter' which deals specifically with invective in Republican speeches.    As with Corbeil, Aldrete explains that public speeches in Rome were spectacles involving both the speaker and his audience.  A Roman speaker would use specific gestures and signs in the course of his speech to emphasize a point and/or to elicit a specific response from his audience.  Aldrete's book provides an outline of Roman political speeches and what expectations its participants and principals had in such a context.  The book then discusses various aspects of Roman elocution and explains their significance, their effects, and their application in certain contexts.    This is very important book contributing further to our understanding of Roman civilization and culture.  It is an important in terms of expanding our historical, rhetorical, sociological and anthropological understanding of the Roman Republic and the Principate: I strongly recommend it to anyone who a serious student of any of these disciplines.	2005-04-25
US	29888707	RH0YLKBSAM4YB	0815335660	940267418	From Scythia to Camelot: A Radical Reassessment of the Legends of King Arthur, the Knights of the Round Table, and the Holy Grail (Arthurian Characters and Themes)	Books	1	37	57	N	N	From Etymology to Conjecture: Laughable Research of Arthurian Lore	Linda Malcor's book on King Arthur seeks to not only break the mythological perceptions of the romanticized Arthur but also seeks to part with the main schools of thought on this subject by presenting a revolutionary theory that Arthur was a Scythian warrior serving as a Roman auxiliary cavalry leader in Britain at the end of the Western Roman Empire.  Don't be fooled by the propositions in this book as the scientific methods presented are based almost entirely on etymology allowing for no more than conjecture as to the conclusions they claim to support.<br /><br />Most historians agree that Arthur was a Celt-Roman leader in Britain who lived during the collapse of the Western Roman Empire c.450-475 A.D. and, that he led a military/political movement to fight off the increasing migrations of Angles, Saxons, and Jutes, that were coming to Britain from modern-day Denmark and northern Germany. Contrary to the book's claims Lucius Artorius is not a possible candidate, as evidence strongly indicates that he was alive under the reigns of Marcus Aurelius and Commodus c. 180 A.D.: that's 270 years before the accepted time frame for King Arthur.  Primarily through flawed etymology and conjecture, the book claims that the Holy Grail, The Lady of the Lake, etc. are undoubtedly the product of Sarmatian culture and evidence of such culture in Britain. These premises are entirely the product of conjecture and refer to no physical evidence to support the conclusions that are made.  The Holy Grail is a Christian symbol that had been around for 450 years in the Roman Empire and such symbols were introduced to Britain and Ireland by evangelists such as St. Patrick.  Dragons, The Green Knight, Merlin, The Lady of the Lake, and Excalibur, are all stronger evidence of known Celtic/Druidic symbolism and rites than anything else.  The book therefore fails to conclusively show how the Sarmatian culture was a necessary precondition for such symbolism in England during the Dark Ages or thatArthurian myths have anything to do with Sarmatian culture specifically.  Another point the authors fail to properly explain is, if members of Arthur's entourage were Sarmatian, why do they all have Celtic/Roman/Germanic names such as Artorius, Ulfius, Galahad, Tristan, Gawayne, Uther, Vortigern, Morgana, Mordred, etc., etc., etc.? All of the characters in Arthurian myth have Celtic, Roman, or Germanic names: not Sarmatian ones. Also, whereas there is good indication of Sarmatian influence in Poland, Russia, and Eastern Europe, in the adoption of their unique cavalry tactics and armor (Sarmatians wore wings as part of their cavalry armor) by the indigenous populations, it interesting to note that no evidence of such armor or weapons has been found in England.  Finally, most of the Arthurian myths come from Wales and southern England, not Scotland or Northern England where the book claims Arthur was the most active: presumably there's a reason for that. It is also important to note that most of the Celtic revival and geopolitical expansion at that time was focused in southern Britain and Brittany in northern France as evidenced by multiple Celtic settlements and forts: not Northern England.<br /><br />This book is on shakey grounds and based primarily on conjecture no different than if one were to conclude that the words 'dog' and 'dogma' are very similar and therefore many Old English words have Hindi origins so that the English must have been of Indian origin or vis versa.  Robert Graves had similar problems in his book \\"The Greek Myths\\" in which he tried to support his theory of pre-Mycenean Amazonian civilizations whose matriarchal goddesses such as Hera, Hecate, etc. simply incorporated into the patriarchal triad of Zeus, Poseidon, and Hades, by later Mycenean and Doric invaders.  Graves wanted to show how words and names in the myths such as with Kronos or Theseus and the Minotaur reveal the practice of males being sacrificed and castrated by these matriarchiesin their religious festivals. Although Malcor and Littleton actually have a contrasting culture to reference as opposed to Graves' mythical Amazons, the means to connect them is still limited to inconclusive etymology that is simply insufficient to scientifically support their theories.  The inconclusive etymology presented in the book is a stronger indication of the lack of grounds than the strength of it.  In addition to a strong absence of written sources, the book also suffers on the archeological level in that there are simply no artifacts or monuments to suggest Sarmatians had any significant presence or role in England during that time.  This work is primarily academic sophistry and bears little scientific weight.	2005-04-21
US	29888707	R1CT7WN7YLR3YB	0674011929	707555499	Nero	Books	5	30	32	N	N	An Excellent Reevaluation of Nero The Emperor/Entertainer	Edward Champlin's book provides a revolutionary approach to understanding the commonly misperceived Nero, who now is often portrayed as a demented fool who watched Rome burn while reciting the Iliad; who brutally executed Christians for entertainment; and, whose death was celebrated far and wide.  Champlin dispels these misconceptions as products of bias and shows that Nero remained a positive mythological hero for over 400 years after his death even to some Christians and, that he was well loved by a great majority of the people: particularly in Greece and Asia Minor.    The book retraces the common sources on Nero as being Suetonius, Tacitus, Plutarch and Dio.  Champlin demonstrates how the Latin and Christian sources tend to be severely negative while the Greek ones are either neutral or positive.  Champlin then shows how Nero was really a Hellenic phillantropist who freed Greece from taxes and gave it its autonomy.  He notes that, after his death, three impostors pretending to be Nero came out of Greece and Asia Minor with significant followings and explains that this could not have happened unless a significant group of people saw Nero as an enlightened folk hero.  Champlin reveals also many other biases in Suetonius and Tacitus depicting Nero as tone-deaf and without talent.  Champlin shows that other writers commented significantly well on his skills and that the impostors were tested as to their claimed identities by being asked to sing and/or play the lyre.  He also demonstrates how members of all classes in Rome willingly participated in both his public and private spectacles and that this wasn't just flattery on their part.  More importantly, Champlin shows that Nero was very conscious of his public image and that his public appearances and performances met the collective needs of his audience in being assured of his benevolent rule despite his misdeeds such as incest and matricide.  Champlin argues that this well calculated propaganda and interplay withthe crowd was the key to Nero's sense of self and power: Nero the artist, entertainer, and idol whose mythological persona wooed the crowds who in turn approved of him as their champion.  Champlin thus shows that Nero was hardly a depraved imbecil but a very creative and intelligent self-propagandist.    The book is comprehensive but would be even better if it emphasized certain points more clearly.  First, for emperors such as Nero and Caligula it is important to supplement the historical analysis with a psychological one as both were psychotic in one way or another: Caligula being primarily a completely deranged sociopath while Nero demonstrated more an Oedipus complex and abandonment issues.  Modern readers fail to appreciate that Nero, who died at 30, was very much a boy trapped in a man's body whose mother was none other than Caligula's sister: an overbearing, overambitious, and incestuous mother who sought to rule for herself through her son. With this in context, the image of Nero the monster becomes more of a sad story of a young man whose youth must have been a traumatizing ordeal: a shy and insecure boy of 16 put on the throne by a sinister and depraved mother.  Nero's ascension to the throne and breaking away from his mother required strong approval for something that he achieved without his mother's meddling: he found that approval in the crowds and in the Hellenic world with his obsessive devotion to the arts.  Nero wanted to act and play games where he would be loved and approved and his artistic talents were the key to that approval: he soon found that such approval could be manipulated into his own collage of the mythical hero for the collective Roman/Greek psyche.  The book should have also clarified that many in the Hellenistic world also loved Nero because he was the promoter of major, mostly Greek, factions and guilds involving the arts that affected a broad spectrum of Roman society: most importantly, all of the 4 chariot factions in Rome had strong ties to Greece and Asia minor and they benefitted immensely from Nero's largesse.  Finally, the book should have clarified more on the Christians and their place in society at the time.  For most of the world at that time, Christianity was nothing more than an obscure and militant sect that followed the teachings of a Jewish rabble rouser crucified under Tiberius' reign.  Christians were also very evangelical and apocalyptic at that time: devoted followers strongly believed that Judgment Day was near and Christ would come back to overthrow The Beast (The number 666 in the Apocalypse spells as 'Nero' in Hebraic numerology.)  Such beliefs could only have been perceived by pagan Rome as threat to the State requiring strong and immediate punishment.  Thus, the modern view of Nero as an Anti-Christ is rather misleading if put into context: Nero was a pagan and never believed in the Judeo-Christian model of the world, he therefore never chose to assume the role of Satan in the biblical sense as modern Satanists (who ultimately accept the notion of God/Satan/Christ/Heaven/Hell as a theological model) would do for example.  In addition, the punishment inflicted on the Christians wasn't exceptionally more cruel than the punishment given to all other criminals at that time. Unfortunately, it is with this false paradigm that Nero has been misunderstood until today as a cruel Anti-Christ out to destroy a peaceful religious institution and the book should emphasize this misconception more clearly.    In any case, this is a fascinating reevaluation of Nero \\"The Monster/Anti-Christ\\" as Nero \\"The Mythical Hero\\" whose largesse and promotion of the arts made him a well loved emperor by a majority of the populace in the Empire, especially in Greece and Asia Minor.  Indeed, his unpopularity was pervasive in the smaller but more powerful social circles of the nobility, army, and the imperial bureaucracy who felt the consequences of a bankrupt treasury much more than the common populace who were the ones who obtained all of the benefits from it.  The book dispels the misconception of Nero being a depraved imbecil and shows him to have been a very intelligent and energetic artist/emperor who used his artistic talents to define his public image as a mythical hero.  The book is easy to read both for the scholar and the casual reader.  I recommend it for anyone who wants an unbiased evaluation of one of Rome's most facinating emperors.	2005-04-11
US	29888707	R13Z4H7XMEC647	0520081838	33292593	From Samarkhand to Sardis: A New Approach to the Seleucid Empire (Hellenistic Culture and Society)	Books	4	25	26	N	Y	A Major Contribution to the Study of the Seleucid Empire	This treatise on the Seleucid empire along with other works by the authors are the only major studies done on this subject in over 50 years.  Despite its poor editing, this book brings together more recent discoveries and theories as to the formation, administration, expansion, and cultural impact of the Seleucid empire in the Middle East, India, and Central Asia.    Out of the three dynasties that inherited Alexander The Great's vast empire, the Seleucid Empire has been studied the least and brushed off as a sickly empire that was doomed to collapse from its inception despite being the largest and richest of those three. The reason for this conclusion wasn't based so much on historical evidence but the lack of it.  Susan Sherwin-White and Amelie Kurt present their own alternative theories about the evolution of the Seleucid empire in an attempt to dispel such misconceptions.  They argue that the empire was not one of colonial dominance and segregation but rather one of integration and tolerance as originally envisioned by Alexander The Great.  They argue that the vastness of the empire and the diversity of cultures simply made it impossible for the Greeks to hold it for over 200 years by policies of force, colonization and segregation.  They support these theories by referring to direct classical sources, later classical texts, and archeological information.  This book is a major contribution to the study of the Seleucids as previous scholars such as Tarn simply didn't have the knowledge of the major archeological finds that were uncovered after he published his works in the mid-twentieth century.    I strongly recommend this book to anyone who is seriously in need of important and recent information on the Seleucid empire.  Other sources like Tarn are simply too old and limited in their source materials to provide a thorough analysis of this neglected subject.  The book is extremely hard to find, trust me, as I had to inquire for over a year with almost every vendor in the world only to find that none of them had it available.  Amazon, and Alibris seem to be the ones that are most likely to have a copy available from time to time.  If you want to get this work, I recommend you get it as soon as it becomes available because there are few copies out there.  It's possible that another edition is on the way but that may be long in the future if ever at all.  As a last note, the book is not suited for the casual reader as its jacket claims; one would at least need to have a thorough background on Alexander The Great if not Persian and Greek history.  The book is also expensive at $100-$150 and not really in the price range of someone who only has a limited interest in the subject.  A very good book to go with this one is A. K. Narain's 'Coin Types of the Indo-Greek Kings\\" that focuses on the Seleucid kingdoms of the Indus valley and Bactria: its several studies focus primarily on numismatic evidence along with archeological and literary sources.  The works and theories of the authors as to the development and administration of the Seleucid kingdoms complement each other and therefore make a great pair of books to own.	2005-04-08
US	29888707	R2HR13UX0ZZLDB	0691018545	888404112	On War, Indexed Edition	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Diplomacy By Other Means	Carl Von Clausewitz (1780-1831) was a Prussian aristocrat who served as an officer during the Napoleanic Wars and who began writing this treatise on warfare upon the conclusion of the conflict.  Although primarily philosophical, Clausewitz' efforts are to explain the nature and the dynamics of war.  Unlike Sun-Tzu's \\"The Art of War\\" which is primarily a work of maxims or dictums, Clausewitz tried to put such concepts into a theoretical and empirical framework.      This edition does a fine job at clarifying the historical context in which Clausewitz was writing his work as well as what issues he was trying to address.  Clausewitz never found his works to be ready for publication but his wife had them published shortly after his death.  One can see Clausewitz' efforts to categorize his concepts were strongly influenced by Emmanuel Kant's philosophy. This factor,in addition to his work being mostly rough drafts, can make Clausewitz a difficult writer to follow.    Clausewitz' most important and relevant concepts to the world today would be his \\"Books\\" 1-4 and 8 which deal with the theoretical and philosophical aspects of war: his most famous phrase being that war is the execution of a state's diplomatic policies by other means (i.e. organized military force.)The objective of war is to make the enemy do your will (ideally with unrestricted force) which is to make him surrender unconditionally to achieve a specific political objective.  The question then being who has the means and methods to put those principles into effect successfully.  The success of such actions depends on sound planning as well as trying to avoid what he termed 'the fog of war' or simply the uncertainties arising out of conflicts such as supply problems, unanticipated terrain and weather, human error and morale.  Clausewitz then goes into the concepts of leadership and strategy that are important towards limiting the fog of war and achieving the desired objectives of the war.  Clausewitz' remaining works on offense, defense, and military forces are less relevant as they are more products of the Napoleanic War: their tactical and strategic insights are of limited use in the context of modern mechanized warfare.    This is a great edition as it is accompanied by a very detailed preface and introductory essays that clarify Clausewitz' convoluted manuscripts.  The essays bring his work into modern perspective and discuss its important contributions to modern political and military thinking.  I strongly recommend this edition and translation over other works as the reader will simply get more bang for their buck compared to publications by Penguin or others.	2005-03-26
US	29888707	R76OFWO6AQ9L8	0684193035	5546700	The Founders of the Western World: A History of Greece and Rome	Books	5	6	6	N	N	An Excellent Introductory Text For Beginners	If you always wanted to learn about Ancient Greece and Rome but didn't know where to start this book by Michael Grant is a good place to do it.  In this small but comprehensive book, Michael Grant carefully outlines all of the historical milestones that made both civilizations great and timeless.    Grant first begins with covering the Greek world and devotes 2/3 of his book to that subject. Grant covers the origins of Greek speaking peoples with groups such as the Myceneans and their contact with other Mediterranean civilizations.  Grant then proceeds to Classical Greece, the Persian Wars, and the Peloponnesian War.  Grant explains the origins of democracy in Athens and contrast with Sparta's dual monarchy.  Grant also devotes significant attention to the political, philosophical, and artistic contributions of the Greeks.  The section on Greece concludes with Alexander The Great and the Hellenic period.    Grant's section on Rome is also comprehensive in covering the significant events that shaped Rome and her contributions.  Grant covers the origins of Rome under the Etruscans and the Greek Italian colonies.  Grant also covers the importance of the Punic Wars, Rome's contact with the Celts, and Rome's conquest of the Hellenic monarchies.  Grant also discusses the impact of popular Roman leaders such as Marius, Sulla, Caesar, Pompey, Cicero, and Crassus.  After explaining the Republic, Grant does a broad overview of the Principate devoting most of his attention to Augustus, Constantine, and Diocletian.  As with his Greek section, Grant devotes some sections to discuss Rome's contributions in government, military, and artistic areas.    This is a very good introductory text where the reader won't feel overwhelmed by strange names or concepts in their efforts to learn about ancient Greece and Rome. The book also puts those civilizations in perspective by explaining the legacy they left to the modern world in various fields such as language and culture; political science; military science; architecture; and, philosophy.  I strongly recommend this book to anyone beginning to learn about Rome or who's looking for a good intorductory classroom textbook suitable for Jr. High and up.	2005-03-24
US	29888707	R2WX9YZN9VFM6O	B0007E62PQ	985484540	The speeches: with an English translation. In Catilinam I-IV--Pro Murena--Pro Sulla--Pro Flacco (The Loeb classical library, 324 (English and Latin Edition)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	"How long now, Catiline, will you abuse our patience?"	These are probably Cicero's best speeches in which his oratory is full of passion in its appeal to save The Republic from the impending doom brought by Catiline's sinister plot to consume Rome in flames and slaughter the wealthy.  His style in the Catilinam is very inflammatory and accusatory as he urges his fellow senators to issue a decree approving of his actions as Consul against Catiline and to ratify his plea to execute Cataline's co-conspirators.  His pacing and choice of words make the reader feel that doom is near unless swift action is taken.  A simply marvelous piece of oratory.  The final speeches 'Pro Flacco', 'Pro Murena', and 'Pro Sulla', are his defense presentations in the trials of Flacco, Murena, and Sulla (Sulla's son that is.)  Although not as moving as his speeches on Catiline, these criminal defense speeches are useful in understanding the origins and effects of Catiline's bizzare attempts as well as Rome's judicial system in the context of political elections. It was common for defeated candidates to seek prosecution of their successful opponents to frustrate their ability to obtain that office: almost all of these trials involved claims of bribery and corruption. Political trials were extremely common in The Late Republic and these are fine examples of them: the rhetoric is heated and many of the accusations speculative; all of this is colored by the free use of invective.  These trials are also important in that they show Cicero to be a rather practical politician who has no qualms in defending staunch optimates to the likes of Sulla or working with other defense advocates whom he doesn't like such as Marcus Licinius Crassus.  What is perhaps most touching is Cicero's pompous flair which makes him quite human: I saved The Republic! Me! Me! Me! Cicero's self-congratulatory remarks in his speeches and letters were often considered pompous even by Roman standards of oratory and behavior. Perhaps no one else was more dismissive of Cicero's arrogant airs than Brutus, the tyrannicide, who tought of them as too Greek for his taste.  Still, Cicero's brilliant eloquence in words strikes deep even in our time as he taunts those driven by degenerate greed and mad treason by telling them:<br /><br />\\"Wherefore, as I have said before, go forth...  You will go at last where your unbridled and mad desire has been long hurrying you. And this causes you no grief, but an incredible pleasure. Nature has formed you, desire has trained you, Fortune has preserved you for this insanity. Not only did you never desire quiet, but you never even desired any war but a criminal one; you have collected a band of profligates and worthless men, abandoned not only by all fortune but even by hope. Then what happiness will you enjoy! With what delight will you exult! In what pleasure will you revel! When in so numerous a body of friends, you neither hear nor see one good man.\\"<br /><br />Cicero. Catiline Orations I:VIII-X.<br /><br />The Loeb library is unique in that its classical texts are printed in both the original Latin text and English side-by-side. The translations are quite good and were done by competent scholars of classics whose choice of language is accurate, clear, and modern. These hard bound volumes are small but their covers are durable: the paper is of good quality. These are some of Cicero's greatest public orations that will capture the reader into all of the intrigues and turmoils of The Late Roman Republic.  The powerful words and events reflected in these works move the reader and make him/her wonder about all of the nuances of a free republic that ceased to exist over 2000 years ago.  A good companion to this text would be Loeb's edition of Sallust's monograph on Catiline which both complements and deviates from some of the information presented in Cicero's speeches.  I strongly recommend Loeb's editions as they are both in English and Latin side-by-side.  Don't be dissuaded by the out-of-print notice on this site as there are other editions presently available by Loeb that just haven't been posted on Amazon yet.	2005-03-23
US	29888707	R25PX50ZLOGCEB	0756778409	747039215	Enemies Of Rome: Barbarians Through Roman Eyes	Books	4	6	7	N	N	An Interesting Socio-Anthropological Study of Rome	I.M. Ferris' book is an interesting socio-anthropological study of Roman civilization and its barbaric neighbors: barbarian meaning anyone not Roman.  Although it tends to cover mostly the Principate as opposed to the Republic, the book provides an interesting perspective compared to others that only study Roman art only from a chronological perspective or political studies that use art work only to illustrate the event.    Ferris approaches the topic with the theory that Rome's art work of battles and its conquered peoples reflected very deep psychological states of mind held by the Romans.  This is particularly true in the Republic when Romans were constantly besieged by 'barbarians' such as Hannibal's Carthagenians and Brenus' army of Celts.  The book illustrates how Celts and Germanic tribes were constantly portrayed as savage beasts being either killed in battle, chained up, or killed in executions.  The book contrasts the latter with the stereotypical depiction of Parthians as being effeminates and whose despotic culture of sycophancy was perceived as a menace to Rome.  The book then follows through the Late Empire showing how Germanic savages were portrayed as more human: probably because Germanic groups comprised a good amount of the Empire's population by then.  With such an anlysis, the book is important in not only clarifying issues not really addressed in the study of Rome, but also showing us that the demonization of foreign groups for political or cultural purposes is really nothing new.    I.M. Ferris' book presents a unique socio-anthropological analysis of Roman civilization and how it propagated its notion of 'us vs. them' throughout its history: particularly during the Principate.  Although it tends to cover mostly the Principate as opposed to the Republic, the book provides an interesting perspective not really covered by other scholars. I wouldn't recommend this work to the casual reader unless they already have a good grasp of general background material about Rome in particular and antiquity in general.  This is a great book for college-level students of classical studies.	2005-03-20
US	29888707	R1UWX67C5ZJ5FE	0674991230	886418449	Tacitus: Histories, Books I-III (Loeb Classical Library No. 111)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	The First Modern Historian	Publius/Gaius Cornelius Tacitus was born c. 55 A.D. under Nero's reign and his family seems to have had at least an equestrian rank. The date of his death is uncertain but placed at the close of Trajans reign in c. 117 A.D. Tacitus is considered by many to be the first modern Roman historian due to his avoidance of the praiseful oratory so common with other historiographers such as Livy. Tacitus tended to explain the events and persons as they existed and then delve into empirical speculation as to motives or causes. <br /> <br />This volume covers the close of Nero's reign in 68 A.D. and of the Julio-Claudian dynasty that Caesar had started.  The lack of succession created a power vacuum in Rome filled by Galba, Otho, Vitellius, and eventually Vespasian in 69 A.D.  The book offers a good insight as to what was really nothing more than a continuation of the power struggles between military commanders that were so pervasive in the Republic: mainly, who will be the new dictator/emperor? In addition to providing information about the aristocracy in Imperial Rome, Tacitus gives valuabe information on the workings of the Principate, the Imperial Roman army, and the notorious Praetorian Guard. <br /> <br />The Loeb library is reknown for its publications of classical texts in English and either Latin or Ancient Greek depending on the author. If you're a student or teacher of classics you can't go without this publication. This translation is a pleasant work to read. All of Tacitus' volumes by Loeb are presently availble. This is a very good investment for anyone who wants to be illuminated as to what humanity achieved over 2000 years before we even existed: it's priceless!  <br />	2005-03-20
US	29888707	R2B08APC1CXULG	B0007I0W4O	285064511	Livy in fourteen volumes (The Loeb classical library [Latin authors])	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Rome's History As Written By A Literary Genius	Titus Livius was an affluent man who came from Patavium.  A writer of immense talent equal to his contemporary, Ovid, he began writing these works at age 30 until he died at the age of 76 in 17 A.D.  Out of the 142 books he wrote, these 35 are the only ones to have survived.  These books are priceless and their prose is a delight to read. <br /> <br />Livy's theme in his history is to show Rome's divine ascension to greatness from its beginning to the time of Augustus under whose reign he lived: a model more or less followed by every Roman historiographer in some form or another.  Ironically, what remains of Livy's works become more and more fragmented as they approach The Civil War and his emperor's reign.  Nevertheless, in Livy's Early History you will find all of the legendary characters and events that made Rome great: Romulus and Remus, Tarquin, Cincinnatus, the Horatii, Coriolanus, Hannibal, Scipio Africanus, etc., etc.  The greatest thing about Livy is his great literary style that becomes almost poetry. Unlike other historians who describe history in a plain indicative manner,  Livy's works are literary masterpieces bringing history to life with action verbs and great imaginative yet illustrative speeches, etc.  While reading, one gets the feeling that the history is moving towards an undefined climax in the distant future: the reader remains captivated by the progression and the prose. That's enough to get me reading this book right there.  <br /> <br />The Loeb library is reknown for its publications of classical texts in English and either Latin or Ancient Greek depending on the author. If you're a student or teacher of classics you can't go without this publication. This translation is a pleasant work to read. Don't be dissuaded by the \\"out-of-print\\" mark as Loeb presently has all of Livy's volumes under another edition not fully listed on Amazon.  This is a very good investment for anyone who wants to be illuminated as to what humanity achieved over 2000 years before we even existed: it's priceless!	2005-03-20
US	29888707	R19JQNMVCIOA7M	B00071Y3K0	184356208	Appian's Roman history: In four volumes (The Loeb classical library)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Imperial Rome's History of Her Conquests	Appian was an Alexandrian Greek born in the late first century A.D. who clearly admired Rome but whose knowledge of Republican institutions was limited. A Roman citizen, he mainly practiced as an advocate in Alexandria and later Rome where he wrote these works. His style is plain and unadorned but indicative and factual: exemplary of his lawyering skills. His work is encyclopedic and chronological only in the general periods of those conquests. He approaches Rome in a categorical way beginning with the Empire itself and then divides it into its individual territories going over how they became Rome's from first to last. A good part of Appian's work is unfortunately fragmentary.     Appian's books start with his own preface and then goes on to his subjects in order of their conquest until the Second Triumvirate and the defeat of Sextus Pompeius, Pompey The Great's surviving son.  Some of Appian's best works are his recitals about Hannibal and the Second Punic War as well as the wars against Mithridates VI.  Appian also provides a lot of valuable information about the multiple civil wars that preceded the final Civil War during the last century of the Late Republic: one gets a good picture of the literally 'social' tensions, plebiscites, and factionalism that erupted under the leadership of demagogues like Marius and Cinna.  One also realises how Sulla sped up the end of the Republic by retrenching a political system whose conservatism had outlived its usefulness in the first place. One also gets a good look at Julius Caesar's shady past and relatives.  That's enough to get me reading these books right there.     The Loeb library is reknown for its publications of classical texts in English and either Latin or Ancient Greek depending on the author. If you're a student or teacher of classics you can't go without this publication. Don't be dissuaded by the \\"out-of-print\\" note on this site: the 4-volume translation by Horace White is abundantly avaliable and a pleasant work to read. This is a very good investment for anyone who wants to be illuminated as to what made the Roman empire become such a great power that would rule most of modern Europe and the Mediterranean world for 1500 years.	2005-03-20
US	29888707	RUCZSJ90LKWXE	0674990390	942045502	Tacitus: I, Agricola. Germania. Dialogus (Loeb Classical Library)	Books	5	13	16	N	N	A Roman Eulogy	Publius/Gaius Cornelius Tacitus was born c. 55 A.D. under Nero's reign and his family seems to have had at least an equestrian rank.  The date of his death is uncertain but placed at the close of Trajans reign in 117 A.D.  Tacitus is considered by many to be the first modern Roman historian due to his avoidance of the praiseful oratory so common with other historiographers such as Livy.  Tacitus tended to explain the events and persons as they existed and then delve into empirical speculation as to motives or causes.<br /><br />In addition to his 'Histories', 'Annals', and a work on oratory, Tacitus wrote this eulogy to his father-in-law, Cnaeus Julius Agricola, which he finished in 98 A.D.  This panergyc recital is of his father-in-law who had served as governor of Britain and who was killed by a displeased Emperor Domitian: probably poisoned. The work goes over Agricola's illustrious origins and then his loyal service to the Empire in Britain.  In addition to providing information about the aristocracy in Imperial Rome, Tacitus gives valuabe information on Britain as a Roman colony under Domitian and the political developments of that period.<br /><br />The Loeb library is reknown for its publications of classical texts in English and either Latin or Ancient Greek depending on the author. If you're a student or teacher of classics you can't go without this publication. This translation is a pleasant work to read. All of Tacitus volumes by Loeb are presently availble. This is a very good investment for anyone who wants to be illuminated as to what humanity achieved over 2000 years before we even existed: it's priceless!	2005-03-20
US	29888707	R2PFTKMN6NE533	0674993551	812762564	Tacitus: Annals 13-16 (Loeb Classical Library No. 322)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Rome's First Modern Historian	Publius/Gaius Cornelius Tacitus was born c. 55 A.D. under Nero's reign and his family seems to have had at least an equestrian rank. The date of his death is uncertain but placed at the close of Trajans reign in c. 117 A.D. Tacitus is considered by many to be the first modern Roman historian due to his avoidance of the praiseful oratory so common with other historiographers such as Livy. Tacitus tended to explain the events and persons as they existed and then delve into empirical speculation as to motives or causes: many of conclusions however, particularly towards Livia and Nero, are severly biased. Despite his personal biases and errors, in contrast to previous writers like Livy who wanted to praise the Emperor with an illustrious past of heroes decorated by poetics, Tacitus wrote these Annals more to compare how much worse previous emperors were than the present one: his writing is therefore more cynical and skeptical.      This volume covers Nero's reign from 54 A.D. to 66 A.D. and the debaucheries of his reign.  Tacitus is paticulary harsh with Nero even though his extended reign of 12 years indicates that he certainly wasn't as bad or mad as Caligula.  For more anectodal and comical stories as to his reign, I would recommend Suetonius' 'Twelve Caesars' as a companion text. In addition to providing information about the aristocracy in Imperial Rome, Tacitus gives valuabe information on the workings of the Principate, the Imperial Roman army, and the notorious Praetorian Guard.     The Loeb library is reknown for its publications of classical texts in English and either Latin or Ancient Greek depending on the author. If you're a student or teacher of classics you can't go without this publication. This translation is a pleasant work to read. All of Tacitus' volumes by Loeb are presently availble. This is a very good investment for anyone who wants to be illuminated as to what humanity achieved over 2000 years before we even existed: it's priceless!	2005-03-20
US	29888707	R2TEMCQHH36LCX	0674992741	982946855	Tacitus: Histories, Books IV-V, Annals Books I-III (Loeb Classical Library No. 249)	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Rome's First Modern Historian	Publius/Gaius Cornelius Tacitus was born c. 55 A.D. under Nero's reign and his family seems to have had at least an equestrian rank. The date of his death is uncertain but placed at the close of Trajans reign in c. 117 A.D. Tacitus is considered by many to be the first modern Roman historian due to his avoidance of the praiseful oratory so common with other historiographers such as Livy. Tacitus tended to explain the events and persons as they existed and then delve into empirical speculation as to motives or causes.<br /><br />This volume covers the close of Nero's reign in 68 A.D. and of the Julio-Claudian dynasty that Caesar had started. The lack of succession created a power vacuum in Rome filled by Galba, Otho, Vitellius, and eventually Vespasian in 69 A.D. The books also recites Augustus' reign and Tiberius' early reign from 14 A.D. to 22 A.D. The book offers a good insight as to the power struggles in the Principate as well as information about the aristocracy in Imperial Rome. In addition to the events of that period, Tacitus also gives valuabe information on the workings of the Principate, the Imperial Roman army, and the notorious Praetorian Guard.<br /><br />The Loeb library is reknown for its publications of classical texts in English and either Latin or Ancient Greek depending on the author. If you're a student or teacher of classics you can't go without this publication. This translation is a pleasant work to read. All of Tacitus' volumes by Loeb are presently availble. This is a very good investment for anyone who wants to be illuminated as to what humanity achieved over 2000 years before we even existed: it's priceless!	2005-03-20
US	29888707	R11OEVQQLFPUB1	0500050678	502155431	Exploring the World of the Celts	Books	5	16	19	N	N	A Great Illustrative Introduction Into Celtic History	The Celts were a proud and fiercely independent peoples who covered most of Europe including England from Turkey to Portugal for over 1000 years.  Although tribal with no written language other than religious runes, the Celts were great metal workers, horsemen, warrriors, and artisans whose spiritual and cultural force was guarded by druids: shamans who worshipped a pantheon of mostly nature deities and sometimes performed mass human sacrifices to appease them.  This illustrative text by Simon James is a great introduction to Celtic history and culture that is approachable by all readers 10 or older.  A great book for the casual reader and ideal for high school or general education classes.    Before exploring the evolution of Celtic culture and history from its earliest origins c. 1000 B.C., the book begins by clarifying their present legacy and by dispelling some popular misconceptions.  For example, the book explains that the Scottish kilt was a romantic revival mainly introduced in the late 18th century and not a common Celtic attire: Celts wore pants and this brings into perspective Hollywood distortions in films such as 'Braveheart.'  Actually, we are indebted to the Celts for giving us pants and leather shoes to wear as, otherwise, we would probably still be dressed in Roman fashion with tunics, togas, and hobnailed sandals.  We are also indebted to the Celts for their thirst for beer instead of wine. The Spanish word 'cerveza' for beer is actually the Celtic word 'cervisium' as much as 'dineiro' is derived from the Latin 'dinarius' or 'silver piece.'  The Celtic measure of the 'ton' is also a lasting mark on the modern world.  The book continues in exploring the Celtic culture in a categorical as opposed to exclusively chronological order.  The book makes sure to cover the continuation of Celtic culture in Ireland, Wales, and Brittany in France.  The  book's subjects are accompanied by numerous photographs, diagrams, and time tables to aid the reader.    Again, Simon James presents a great introduction to Celtic history and culture suitable for readers of all ages 10 and up with good subject overviews accompanied by plenty of illustrations.  A great book for the casual reader and ideal for high school or general education classes.  I strongly recommend it as an introductory text.	2005-03-20
US	29888707	R6WHS3D7FQNLY	0674990021	36437019	Appian: Roman History, I, Books 1-8.1 (Loeb Classical Library #2) (Volume I)	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Imperial Rome's History of Her Conquests	Appian was an Alexandrian Greek born in the late first century A.D. who clearly admired Rome but whose knowledge of Republican institutions was limited. A Roman citizen, he mainly practiced as an advocate in Alexandria and later Rome where he wrote these works. His style is plain and unadorned but indicative and factual: exemplary of his lawyering skills. His work is encyclopedic and chronological only in the general periods of those conquests. He approaches Rome in a categorical way beginning with the Empire itself and then divides it into its individual territories going over how they became Rome's from first to last. A good part of Appian's work is unfortunately fragmentary.<br /><br />This first book starts with Appian's own preface and then goes on to his subjects in order: Kings, Early Italy; Samnites; Celts; Sicily and other islands; Wars in Spain; the Hannibalic War; the Punic Wars. Although a good part of Appian's work is lost, his work gives us an overwhelming abundance of information about Hannibal and the Second Punic War. There is much detail on the army Hannibal brought from Spain with the intent of destroying Rome herself at the core: 90,000 foot; 12,000 horse; and, of course, 37 elephants. It was a gigantic army size by standards of antiquity or even pre-19th century armies. He had half his army left before even crossing the Alps four months later but went ahead towards Rome anyway seeking converts or razing the ground wherever he could. He would roam all over Italy for another 13 years winning some great victories but Rome remained mercilessly tenacious. Rome would pursue him like the Furies until his old age all the way to Asia Minor where he finally committed suicide just to end the chase. That's enough to get me reading this book right there.<br /><br />The Loeb library is reknown for its publications of classical texts in English and either Latin or Ancient Greek depending on the author. If you're a student or teacher of classics you can't go without this publication. This translation by Horace White is a pleasant work to read. This is a very good investment for anyone who wants to be illuminated as to what humanity achieved over 2000 years before we even existed: it's priceless!	2005-03-19
US	29888707	RDP3R600FHOE5	0521521009	680397387	The Cambridge Illustrated History of Ancient Greece (Cambridge Illustrated Histories)	Books	3	10	14	N	N	A Good Summary Introduction to Ancient Greece	I feel the book is really a 3.5-star as Cambridge's Illustrated Series 'Ancient Greece' is a very good introductory text that is not a doctoral socio-political analysis or an advanced level chronological review of Greece's evolution from polis to Hellenism such as the massive Cambridge 'Ancient History' editions. It therefore makes it an ideal text for general readers and beginning students despite having some deficiencies that can be easily supplemented by another publisher's as a companion text.     The book is suited for readers ages 12 and up and treats the subject more as a primarily anthropological and interdisciplinary approach to the subject covering things such art, political intitutions, urban life, and how their legacy remains with us today. A collaboration of various respected scholars with different specialties provides readers with a multi-faceted view of Greek civilization without bogging them down with a tedious chronological approach focusing primarily on a geopolitical evolution of its social and military institutions along with its principal agents. Its subjects are illustrated by a good amount of color photographs, drawings, and diagrams, giving the reader a useful visual aid for an enhanced perspective of the subject.     Although it has great qualities, I find it insufficient for general education college classes as its subjects are too limited and without enough detail as to social and political topics in particular. Leslie and Roy Adkins' 'A Handbook to Life In Ancient Greece' is more thoroughly edited and organized than this text despite their having black and white illustrations as opposed to color. The Adkins text is also categorically organized as well, but its approach is more sociopolitical and encyclopedic, giving much more detailed information on a much broader subject range: especially military, economic, and political topics. Its detailed illustrations, maps, and thorough categorical summaries give the reader a better idea how majorGreece's impact was on the modern world in its ideas of the city-state, art, philosopy, and cutlure.  At the very least, both  texts should be bought together as complements for the general reader to really have a complete overview of the progression and impact of Roman history: none are very expensive at $20-$40 each.     Cambridge Illustrated History 'Ancient Greece' is a good introductory text that would appeal to a wide general audience ages 12 and up and that would make a fine high school or general education-level college class as a main text. Covering a broad category of topics from various disciplines, the reader will be informed of Greek civilization's evolution and continuing legacy in the modern world. Its drawback is it may be too general as to some subjects which would be complemented with Leslie and Roy Adkins' equally affordable and outstanding summary text 'A Handbook to Life In Ancient Greece.'  Both texts allow the reader appreciate how the small Greeks polis and the culture that created it paved the way for our modern political institutions and secular states that prize democracy, science, and rationalism above anything else.  I strongly recommend getting both to anyone who wants a broad yet comprehensive overview of Greek civilization.	2005-03-18
US	29888707	R26B8U2VLUGRET	019512491X	7075358	Handbook to Life in Ancient Greece	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A Great Introductory Book To Ancient Greece.	Lesley and Roy Adkins' book on Greek civilization is a thourough categorical text covering everything from political institutions to fashion. The book also has extensive photographs and illustrations detailing countless subjects such as military formations and equipment, city plans and development, architecture, etc., etc. For a general reference guide, it's the most exhaustive, detailed, and accurate text I have ever found. A perfect book that can be easily used by adults or children, and teachers or students.  A perfect classroom textbook for high school or general education-level college students. <br /> <br />If you are just beginning to learn about Greek civilization, I strongly recommend this book above all other introductory texts: there's simply no comparison! As you learn more of the basic information, the book has an excellent bibliography and reference guide to authoritative books or academic texts that focus on a specific area. This book is truly one of the best investments one can make in the study of Ancient Greece.  <br />	2005-03-18
US	29888707	R1VI49OMXCTB35	0521827752	172892634	The Cambridge Illustrated History of the Roman World (Cambridge Illustrated Histories)	Books	3	12	14	N	N	A Good Illustrative Summary Review of Roman History	As with the previous reviewer, I feel the book is really a 3.5-star as Cambridge's Illustrated Series 'The Roman World' is a very good introductory text that is not a doctoral socio-political analysis to the likes of Gruen nor an advanced level chronological review of Rome's evolution from Republic to Empire such as Wacher's 'Roman World' and Cambridge's 'Ancient History' editions. It therefore makes it an ideal text for general readers and beginning students despite having some deficiencies that can be easily supplemented by having two of another publisher's as companion texts.<br /><br />The book is suited for readers ages 12 and up and treats the subject more as a primarily anthropological and interdisciplinary approach to the subject covering things such art, political intitutions, urban life, and how their legacy remains with us today. A collaboration of various respected scholars with different specialties provides readers with a multi-faceted view of Roman civilization without bogging them down with a tedious chronological approach focusing primarily on a geopolitical evolution of its social and military institutions along with its principal agents.  Its subjects are illustrated by a good amount of color photographs, drawings, and diagrams, giving the reader a useful visual aid for an enhanced perspective of the subject.<br /><br />Although it has great qualities, I find it insufficient for general education college classes as its subjects are too limited and without enough detail as to social and political topics in particular.  Leslie and Roy Adkins' 'A Handbook to Life In Ancient Rome\\" and 'Dictionary of Roman Religion' is more thoroughly edited and organized than this text despite their having black and white illustrations as opposed to color. The Adkins texts, are also categorically organized as well, but their approach is more sociopolitical and encyclopedic, giving much more detailed information on a much broader subject range: especially military, engineering, economic, and political topics. Their detailed illustrations, maps, and thorough categorical summaries give the reader a better idea how major Rome's impact was on the modern world in its highly organized institutions and countless feats of engineering such as roads, buildings, aqueducts, and tunnels, many of which are still used today more than 2000 years later.  At the very least, all three texts should be bought together as complements for the general reader to really have a complete overview of the progression and impact of Roman history: none are very expensive at $20-$40 each.<br /><br />Cambridge Illustrated History 'Roman World' is a good introductory text that would appeal to a wide general audience ages 12 and up and that would make a fine high school or general education-level college class as a main text.  Covering a broad category of topics from various disciplines, the reader will be informed of Roman civilization's evolution and continuing legacy in the modern world.  Its drawback is it may be too general as to some subjects which would be complemented with  Leslie and Roy Adkins' equally affordable and outstanding summary texts 'A Handbook to Life In Ancient Rome\\" and 'Dictionary of Roman Religion.' All three texts allow the reader appreciate how Rome's modern pragmatism in practical organization and sheer determination made her the most populated city at over 2 million inhabitants: remaining undefeated by most of the world except perhaps in Asia and India until the late 19th century!  With the modernities of a highly organized administration maintaining paved roads, sewer systems, and constant potable water supply, Rome became the cultural center of the Mediterranean from as early a time as the Republic. Its empire of citizenship would govern millions upon millions of people for over 500 years from Northern and Mediterranean Europe to Asia Minor and North Africa with all roads leading to the Eternal City of The Seven Hills.  I strongly recommend getting all three to anyone who wants a broad yet comprehensive overview of Roman civilization.	2005-03-17
US	29888707	R1BEQAXO85N8XN	0801493129	774301940	The Roman Soldier (Aspects of Greek and Roman Life)	Books	5	8	11	N	N	The Roman Army from the Perspective of the Soldier	Unlike other armies in antiquity, the Roman army evolved to be a formal institution with a distinctive military code, standard equipment, defined ranks and duties, as well as laws and procedures affecting the life and retirement of its soldiers. Although service was long (20 years/no family allowed) and discipline was strict (i.e. decimation), it was truly the first modern professional army with very specialized units ranging from doctors and cooks to sappers and siege engineers. Roman soldiers usually came from the poorer elements of society by the time of the Late Republic and received a thorough training as primarily infantry men: cavalry being left either to the equestrian class or mostly foreign auxilliaries. Their training, efficiency and tenacity allowed the Roman Legions to fight cohesively as flexible units to overcome superior numbers under higher attrition. It made Rome the master of the Mediterranean world and most of modern Europe for over 1500 years (counting the Byzantine.) <br /> <br />G.R. Watson provides a historical and sociological analysis of the Roman army from the perspective of the individual soldier as opposed to being just a general chronological summary or studying it more under a political analysis.  Watson covers the subjects in the order that a new recruit would encounter them such as sign up, training, terms of service, etc.  The book doesn't study the evolution of the Roman army per se as he uses the later Roman Imperial army as a model as it had pretty much fully evolved in its institutions by that time.  Watson reinforces his description and summary with various examples from different periods in the Roman Empire without resorting to a chronological order. <br /> <br />This is overall a good book that gives the reader an idea as to what the Roman army was like from the perspective of the average soldier.  Despite being a thin paperback, the book's conclusions are supported by extensive and thorough historical references and is easyto read for any level of education.  I strongly recommend this book and Adrian Goldsworthy's \\"Roman Warfare\\" for a good textual foundation in learning more about the Roman army.	2005-03-15
US	29888707	R2FD1NJ3XI47GE	0304352659	594227282	Roman Warfare (Cassell's History of Warfare)	Books	4	30	31	N	N	A Good Overview of the Roman Army's Political Evolution	Unlike other armies in antiquity, the Roman army evolved to be a formal institution with a distinctive military code, standard equipment, defined ranks and duties, as well as laws and procedures affecting the life and retirement of its soldiers. Although service was long (20 years/no family allowed) and discipline was strict (i.e. decimation), it was truly the first modern professional army with very specialized units ranging from doctors and cooks to sappers and siege engineers. Its men were led by leaders such as Lucullus, Pompey, and Caesar who took war as a precise implementation of massive and usually unrestricted force towards a defined political ends. Despite its defeats, the Roman army's training, efficiency and tenacity allowed it to overcome superior numbers of often disorganized tribal or despotic mercenary armies of Celtic tribes or Greeks even under higher attrition. It made Rome the master of the Mediterranean world and most of modern Europe for over 1500 years (counting the Byzantine.)     Adrian Goldsworthy's book on Roman warfare is a decent text covering the evolution of the Roman army from the Early Republic to the Empire but is primarily illustrative. The text tries to study the evolution of the Roman army from the perspective of three disciplines: historical, political,and sociological. It generally covers its projection from the origins as aristorcratic clans and retainers raiding cattle from nearby Veii to the Imperial war machine that would for so long ruthlessly crush any threat or resistance to its conquest. The problem with the text seems to be in what discipline it focuses on to explain a certain evolutionary aspect of the army: the juxtapositions are awkward and/or fail to reinforce the main purpose of the text in clarifying the evolution. More specific details about the Roman legionary life could have been added for example and, in other places, more detail on the political changes would have been more instructive. Again the book's emphasis is more on the political evolution of the army as opposed to a strict categorization of army units and equipment and how they each evolved over the course of time. The book is a sociological summary of the Roman army: how it affected the political process and vis versa.     The book is primarily illustrative and therefore has great pictures, maps, and charts, but it doesn't have much depth in its summaries. The book presents good introductory material on Roman warfare but is general in its content. The information is presented more as a summary and the main value in the book is in its maps and diagrams which seem to be more illustrative on the subject matter than the text itself. Don't let that dissuade you though: the summaries are decent and the hardbound book is good for looking at its maps or photos making it a great addition to your bookshelf. However, for a complete categorical summary description of structure, units, armor, and armaments covering the Roman Empire, I would recommend Goldworthy's \\"The Complete Roman Army\\" which is more comprehensive on these precise topics as well as more categorical in the division and chronology of these topics.  A book on the political evolution of the Roman army as attempted here is something that requires more textual analysis than illustration as it is more abstract of a subject and so I would also recommend G.R. Watson's 'The Roman Soldier' as a companion to this book as it explains the Roman army more from the perspective of the individual soldier as opposed to Rome's political institutions.	2005-03-15
US	29888707	R22DS49DC3KBXF	0521794315	547927432	The Cambridge Illustrated History of Warfare (Cambridge Illustrated Histories)	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Excellent Summary On The Evolution of Western Warfare	As with its political and economic systems, Western Europe came to develop very unique military institutions that had evolved from Greco-Roman military doctrines applying war as a science and as a precise instrument towards defined political ends: emphasizing on uniform training and equipment as well as strict discipline.  This book studies the evolution of Western military institutions from antiquity to modern times and demonstrates how these progressive changes contributed to the modern doctrines of Western warfare that are used today by every nation-state.    Geoffrey Parker did an excellent job in this work.  Although many illustrative books are just that, this book has very detailed explanations in addition to very useful illustrations such as photos, maps, and diagrams.  The book covers all of the important aspects of Western military evolution.  For example, it will start by explaining how the early Greek phallanx comprised of citizen farmers was a significant factor to developing the citizen armies of the Roman legions to the later nation-state armies of 18th century Europe.  The book looks at the impact of important military/political thinkers such as Thucydides, Caesar, Machiavelli, and Clausewitz, in the evolution of military doctrine.  The book of course makes sure to cover how advances in science and engineering such as siege engines, firearms, and explosives changed the conduct of warfare and how armies adapted to such changes.    This is nothing short of an excellent book that has the right balance between text and illustrations.  Unlike other illustrative texts that are mostly pictures with little substance, this book is extremely thorough and detailed as to the main factors responsible towards the unique evolution of western military institutions and their impact on the world.  I strongly recommend it.	2005-03-15
US	29888707	R2N1RJ45EM5LN3	0690238150	196055878	A Dictionary of Chivalry.	Books	2	5	11	N	N	A Very General Reference Guide	The book by Grant Uden is a very general reference guide to the history and culture of Medieval Europe and the notion of chivalry.  It alphabetically categorizes various subjects from table manners,  to monarchs and their knights, etc. The book is not an exhaustive dictionary of medieval subjects however, and is limited to subjects that are associated with the notion of chivalry.  The book is therefore more a child's book or introductory text and not a scholarly reference guide.<br /><br />As the title suggests, this is a book on the concept of chivalry and the Medieval subjects attached to this ideal; the book is not really a dictionary on Medieval history.  The book has some serious factual omissions in that there are monarchs and other important persons of Medieval Europe that the text completely omits.  The book also fails to give good geneological information on the convoluted monarchies of Europe of that period: particularly those for England and France as conflicts such as the Hundred Year's War were based on hereditary claims.  Lastly, there's no extensive bibliography explaining the sources from which the material is obtained from. The book has plain creative illustrations for many of the topics it covers.<br /><br />Overall, it's a good book for children or beginners but not a reliable reference for the scholar.  Its summaries are too limited to be of any academic use.  The book also omits information it should include and is therefore poorly edited.  I recommend this book only for light reading or to satiate children's curiosities on this subject.	2005-03-14
US	29888707	R2VITKB7J04YXJ	0805001158	48358765	The Discovery of King Arthur	Books	5	11	12	N	N	The Real Arthur Steps Out of The Dark Ages	Geoffrey Ashe's book provides a much needed clarification of the romanticized Arthurian myth as it's known today.  In a cautious and scientific method, Ashe sifts through Medieval annals and stories to find common links as well as inconsistencies to uncover the probable truth behind the myth.  The book is approachable by all readers regardless of their historical knowledge and is written in a simple prose.    Writers and minstrels of Medieval Europe had little interest in historical truth as we do today and usually sought to impress their monarchs and nobles with fancy stories about the great origins of their titles instead. Sir Thomas Malory's 'Le Morte D'Arthure' was no exception and, his version is even more suspect in that he wrote it hoping to please the king enough to get him out of prison.  Although these early ballads and chronicles obscure more than clarify the true origins of the myths, they do recite certain common and recurrent facts or themes pointing to events during a specific historical period that can reveal glimpses of the truth that lies beneath.    With strong evidence and use of logic, Ash comes to certain tentative conclusions about the real Arthur.  First, Ash goes to the earliest known chronicles which place Arthur at a much earlier date than later writers.  Accounting for some identifiable errors in dates, Ash concludes that Arthur couldn't have lived past the 5th century A.D. which would place him in the final years of Roman Britain.  Ash correctly recognizes that the name Arturios is a Latin name of which a Germanic Angle, Jute, or Saxon monarch would not have had.  He also finds that the legends of Merlin and the Green Knight indicate a strong Celtic influence of druidism which would coincide with that period as Christianity was just beginning to propagate through England and Ireland with evangelists such as St. Patrick: a good portion of Britain and Ireland were still very much Celtic and pagan.  Ash also found that the name Arturios sounds a lot like a Romano-Celtic war chieftain named Riothamus who existed approximately during the same period.  Finally, Ash also suggests that the initial success of the Romano-Celts in repelling the invaders came hand in hand with some territorial expansions into northern Gaul in modern Britanny which would account for the myth of Lancelot.  Gaul was of course also a Roman province that was suffering even more severe invasions at the hands of the Franks, Vandals, and other Germanic invaders during that time. He speculates that the mythical Arthurian prosperity of Camelot simply reflected these initial geo-political and economic successes. Ash also supports his theory with archeological finds dated to that period and etymological extrapolation form names and words.    Stories like the Arthur myths and the Song of Roland tended to be a Medieval minstrel's fancy account of obscure histories to please his audience of nobles and monarchs and were devoid of any factual truth: making these stories myths instead of history.  Ash lifts the veil of these myths and points to the kernels of truth he did find leaving a final conclusion for future historians who dare to take the challenge.  The book is easy to read and one doesn't require a high knowledge of history to understand his argument.  Overall a great book with a lot of good information not only about the Arthurian myth, but also about a period of European history that doesn't offer a lot of information, hence appropriately referred to as the Dark Ages.	2005-03-14
US	29888707	R11ZS15RG5FD6X	0674995996	769868324	Cicero: Letters to Quintus and Brutus. Letter Fragments. Letter to Octavian. Invectives. Handbook of Electioneering; D. Letters (Loeb Classical Library No. 462)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	A Literary and Historical Treasure	Marcus Tullio Cicero (106-43 B.C.)was a man of well-to-do equestrian origins from outside of Rome who quickly earned his reputation as a lawyer with his eloquent oratory.  A moderate conservative, he was a close friend of Pompey The Great whose politics he often agreed with.  By the time these letters had been written Cicero had already been elected to the highest office of Consul and had saved Rome from the domestic insurrection of Catiline.  It is said that one of Cicero's freedmen kept and published these letters after Cicero's execution by Marc Antony's men in 43 B.C.  The letters came to be widely copied during the Imperial period and, that copies were eventually discovered by Petrach in the 14th Century. The Loeb library is unique in that its classical texts are printed in both the original Latin text and English side by side.  The translations are quite good and were done by competent scholars of classics whose choice of language is accurate, clear, and modern.  These hard bound volumes are small but their covers are durable: the paper is of good quality. <br /> <br />The first sets of letters are between Cicero and his 5 year younger brother Quintus.  The value of these letters is that Cicero had never intended to publish these letters and their candidness offer the modern reader a unique window into the past. For example, Quintus was assigned to govern Asia Minor and Cicero, as his older brother, gives him friendly advice as well as news of his family in Italy.  The paternalism from one brother to another in these letters is humorous and so timelessly human, \\"In your province, however, there are a great many who are deceitful and unstable, and trained by a long course of servitude to show an excess of sycophancy.\\"  It is these kind of documents that bring history to life: their candidness allows to understand them in a context that is more human. <br /> <br />I find the letters between Brutus and Cicero the most fascinating to read.  The letters were written in 43 B.C. when Cicero was in Rome and Brutus in Greece.  Both would die before the year had ended.  Cicero wanted to find a way to legitimize Brutus' assassination of Caesar without deligitimizing his inheritor, Octavian.  To obtain support from Rome, Cicero insisted that Brutus come to show his face in Rome and earn the respect he covets.  Uncomfortable with leaving his control of the wealthy provinces Asia Minor and Greece in jeopardy to Marc Antony's army, Brutus asked that Cicero obtain more support and money from Rome first.  To make matters worse, Cicero foolishly sought to enhance Brutus' position by achieving a compromise with Octavian.  He as foolish because he failed to see that Octavian would obviously never compromise anything that would illegitimize his inheritance and title from his adoptive father, Caesar, no matter how much they both hated Marc Antony: Octavian' pretenses at being interested in Cicero's suggestions were simply attempts at buying time to position himself politically with Caesar's legacy which he inherited: a legacy that would, 23 years later, make him the undisputed master of Rome as its first Emperor, Augustus.  Both Brutus and Cicero paid dearly for their miscalculations: Brutus would take his life at Phillipi fighting Marc Antony while Cicero's was taken by Marc Antony's bidding and Octavian's approval.  Quintus, Cicero's brother, would also be executed along with his family.  The tension of this dilemma is certainly felt in reading these letters.  Suddenly, the vision of Brutus as a man whose name would become synonymous with savagery disappears as one can also see a man struggling with his conscience; between a sincere sense of republican duty against the agents of tyranny and the painful reality known all too well by Sulla that to convince Romans to act on your cause you must come to Rome and tell them so. <br /> <br />The Book Of Electioneering and the Letter To Octavian are widely believed to be of later periods and \\"forgeries.\\"  I use forgery as a loose term as it was typical for rhetorical scholars from Imperial Rome onwards to prepare mock speeches or arguments in a similar sense to Plato's 'Dialogues' with Socrates.  The Book Of Electioneering is illogical because Quintus is giving Cicero, his older brother who had already been Consul, advice on how to run for office.  Not only would such advice have been frowned upon, its hard to conceive why Quintus would even write such a text knowing it to be culturally unacceptable.  The Letters from Octavian suffer more on historical inaccuracies in the text that indicate the writers lived in a time when the Republic was a fading memory.  Overall, the rhetorical styles in these letters are cruder and reflect more of what would be found in the Imperial period as opposed to the Late Republic.  <br /> <br />This is a great book to read and own as it is truly a precious window into the past of over 2000 years ago.  The urbanity expressed in these letters brings a more human element to history that is rare to find.  I strongly recommend this book to any one who enjoys exploring the human past.	2005-03-12
US	29888707	R27OFDPC4Z7AVT	0520071662	342281020	Alexander of Macedon 356-323 B.C.: A Historical Biography	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The Various Facets of Greatness	If anyone in the history of the world ever deserved to be titled \\"The Great\\" it would be Alexander III of Macedon.  Born in 356 B.C. to Phillip II and Olympias, Alexander would forever make his name great by leaving Greece to conquer Persia: the largest known empire in antiquity stretching from the Eastern Mediterranean to India. Peter Green's comprehensive biography covers the political and cultural backgrounds surrounding the events of Alexander's life to give the reader a clear picture of the complexeties of his character, the sources of his genius, and the significance of his achievements.    Peter Green is one of the most respected scholars of classical studies who received his degree at Trinity College, Cambridge where he eventually worked as Director of Classics.  Peter Green is presently a tenured professor at the University of Texas, Austin.  Not only is this book saturated with important factual information about Alexander and his time, its prose is easy to read with a good level of wit and humor.  The book thoroughly explains the political and cultural context in which Macedonia came to power and its impact on the Greek city states.  The book is also accompanied with maps detailing Alexander's travels and major battles.    This is an important work that covers in detail the various facets of Alexander's life: not a simple task for a man who accomplished so much in only 13 years of time; a man who, during that time, had covered almost 40,000 miles of mostly inhospitable territory on horse or on foot with an army varying from 60,000 to over 100,000 men.  The book shows that Alexander was not simply a brilliant general who never lost a battle even against overwhelming odds: he was a brilliant politician, an explorer, and a philosopher.  Alexander's voyages were not just conquests but explorations into a world that few Greeks knew of.  His army was always accompanied by scientists, cartographers, philosophers, etc.: it was a royal court in motion.    This isa great book and Peter Green has done an outstanding job.  I strongly recommend this biography over others for its comprehensiveness and smooth prose which makes reading it enjoyable for readers of almost any age: it's a great buy.	2005-03-12
US	29888707	R24HG1553F0978	0679413359	58983679	The Aeneid (Everyman's Library)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The Gods Favor the Bold	Virgil's epic tale of Rome's origins are wonderfully recited in Robert Fitzgerald's faithful translation.  A great tale on fate, fortune, and courage by one of the greatest Latin writers. <br /> <br />The story follows the travels of the Trojan prince Aeneas who, along with a few other countrymen, are able to flee the sack of Troy by the Greeks.  Jupiter is set on making Aeneas and his people great but not before they pass certain trials and tribulations.  Prince Aeneas sails to Carthage on his way to Italy and Queen Dido falls madly in love with him. Knowing that his destiny lies elsewhere, Aeneas continues on his voyage and Queen Dido kills herself.  Aeneas finally disembarks in the fields of Latium but at first encounters hostile Latin tribes under the rule of King Latinus.  After some fighting, the two make a pact and merge as one people setting the stage for the future founding of Rome by Romulus. <br /> <br />This is a great story on par with 'The Iliad' and 'The Odyssey.'  It is perhaps even more fictional than the 'Iliad' as Rome was founded more than 400 years after the Trojan War by Romulus in 753 B.C.  As Romulus and Remus were the sons of Iuli and so the grandchildren of Aeneas, the latter would have been alive no later than the mid-9th Century B.C.  Furthermore, Carthage wasn't founded until about the 9th Century which was 300 years after the fall of Troy.  Unless Aeneas lived to a canonic age, it is very unlikely that he or the Trojans had anything to do with the founding of Rome.  Such tales of Aeneas and the founding of Rome coincide more closely with the earliest Greek colonial settlements in Sicily, Italy, and southern France in the 9th Century and it is probably from there that the Romans derived this fancy tale as to their origins.  The perpetuation of such tales probably had political reasons in either supporting political union with the Greek colonial city-states or an extended political/military campaign against them.  In any case, Fitzgerald's background in poetry brings the story to life and makes it a pleasant reading experience: it's a great buy.	2005-03-11
US	29888707	R2MAZ6UKY832KL	0679728139	541080389	The Odyssey (Vintage classics)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	"This is the story of a man who was never at a loss."	\\"The Odyssey\\", as with other Greek poetry, was poetry intended to be recited orally as opposed to being read. Fitzgerald's backgroung in poetry brings out the lyrical passion of the Odyssey so prized by the Greeks as no other translation has done.<br /><br />The sequel to \\"The Iliad\\", it represents the last phase of what is known as Greece's Heroic Age in which human events are governed by gods, demi-gods, and heroes.  The mortal heroes are endowed with godlike gifts and are mostly tragic. They interact with emissaries from the gods who aid them to their destinies and forewarn them of the fates. Tales such as Jason and the Argonauts, the labors of Hercules, Perseus, Thesseus, etc., are also of that period. The uncertainties in Fate, glory, and mortality are always the dominant themes in these tales. The setting of \\"The Odyssey\\" is c. 1200 B.C. at the close of the Bronze Age. The Greeks are actually Myceneans, a Greek-speaking group that dominated Greece prior to the Doric invasions several centuries later. The story poetically recites a time of Myceanean geopolitical expansion across the Mediterranean and its coasts and encounters with hitherto unknown civilizations after the fall of legendary Troy.<br /><br />\\"The Odyssey\\" starts many years after the Trojan war where, after many ordeals, Odysseus is reciting his travels to Princess Nausica: the young heiress of a kingdom upon which Odysseus washed ashore after being shipwrecked. He recites his departure from Troy after its sacking and how, having angered Poseidon, the god of the sea, he has been condemned to wander across the Mediterranean away from his wife and son, Penelope and Telemachus. Odysseus goes on to recite his encounters with various peoples and mythical beasts during his travels such as the lotus eaters, the sirens, the cyclopse, Scylla and Charibdis, etc. Odysseus is also held captive by powerful demi-godesses and witches such as Calypso and Circe. In Odysseus' absence, Penelope is constantly courted by unwelcome suitors who are wasting her estate. Now a young man and fed up with the suitors, Telemachus travels to mainland Greece to inquire about his father. Odysseus eventually returns to his home of Ithaca to reunite with his family and to dispose of the suitors.<br /><br />There have been many disputes as to whether \\"The Odyssey\\" was really written by Homer and there's substantial evidence that it was not. Many scholars believe that a good portion of the Odyssey was written by a woman: probably a princess named Nausica whose court was in the Greek colony of Syracuse in Sicily and who cleverly inserted herself into the story. There's probably truth to that conclusion as the book is, first of all, a novel as opposed to a epic poetic recital such as \\"The Iliad\\" in which there is really no 1st person narrative. The main characters are also primarily women. The narrative seems to have a keen understanding of the female gender in terms of expectations, emotions, and behavior whereas the men are mostly faceless caricatures. This is completely inapposite to Homer's \\"Iliad\\" where the development of the male characters is rich and complex in contrast to those of women who are stereotypical representations without much depth (e.g. the women weep, moan, and are continuously reminded that their place is either in the bed or at the loom.) If one follows \\"The Odyssey\\" carefully, they will notice a distinct change in narrative style every time scenes are illustrated with nature or in various scenes involving the Gods which are very similar to the narrative style of \\"The Iliad.\\" Another indication that Homer was not the main writer is that, unlike \\"The Iliad\\", the writer has no clue as to ships, navigation, or wind patterns.<br /><br />Regardless of its true authorship, \\"The Odyssey\\" has been hailed as a literary jewel for the past 2900 years and there's a reason for it: it's a timeless look into the human condition as recited by a poet of immense talent. Although the characters may have lived over 3000 years ago, the epic drama has much relevance for humanity today. Fitzgerald provides a good translation that isn't weighed down as earlier ones with your \\"thys\\", \\"thees\\", \\"shalts\\", \\"doths\\", etc.  Although some his word choices can be awkward such as 'wily-nily' and such, his translation is more fluid than those of many other writers and allows the reader to appreciate the meter much more without it being weighed down or diluted with either archaic or overly modern English.  So enjoy this masterpiece of literature in one of the best translations available to date: your money will be well spent.years ago, the epic drama has much relevance for humanity today. Fitzgerald provides a good translation that isn't weighed down as earlier ones with your \\"thys\\", \\"thees\\", \\"shalts\\", \\"doths\\", etc.  Although some his word choices can be awkward such as 'wily-nily' and such, his translation is more fluid than those of many other writers and allows the reader to appreciate the meter much more without it being weighed down or diluted with either archaic or overly modern English.  So enjoy this masterpiece of literature in one of the best translations available to date: your money will be well spent.	2005-03-10
US	29888707	R1NE6L0L4QNBVT	0385050402	627065254	The Odyssey	Books	5	5	6	N	N	"This is the story of a man who was never at a loss."	\\"The Odyssey\\", as with other Greek poetry, was poetry intended to be recited orally as opposed to being read. Fitzgerald's backgroung in poetry brings out the lyrical passion of the Odyssey so prized by the Greeks as no other translation has done.<br /><br />The sequel to \\"The Iliad\\", it represents the last phase of what is known as Greece's Heroic Age in which human events are governed by gods, demi-gods, and heroes.  The mortal heroes are endowed with godlike gifts and are mostly tragic. They interact with emissaries from the gods who aid them to their destinies and forewarn them of the fates. Tales such as Jason and the Argonauts, the labors of Hercules, Perseus, Thesseus, etc., are also of that period. The uncertainties in Fate, glory, and mortality are always the dominant themes in these tales. The setting of \\"The Odyssey\\" is c. 1200 B.C. at the close of the Bronze Age. The Greeks are actually Myceneans, a Greek-speaking group that dominated Greece prior to the Doric invasions several centuries later. The story poetically recites a time of Myceanean geopolitical expansion across the Mediterranean and its coasts and encounters with hitherto unknown civilizations after the fall of legendary Troy.<br /><br />\\"The Odyssey\\" starts many years after the Trojan war where, after many ordeals, Odysseus is reciting his travels to Princess Nausica: the young heiress of a kingdom upon which Odysseus washed ashore after being shipwrecked. He recites his departure from Troy after its sacking and how, having angered Poseidon, the god of the sea, he has been condemned to wander across the Mediterranean away from his wife and son, Penelope and Telemachus.  Odysseus goes on to recite his encounters with various peoples and mythical beasts during his travels such as the lotus eaters, the sirens, the cyclopse, Scylla and Charibdis, etc.  Odysseus is also held captive by powerful demi-godesses and witches such as Calypso and Circe. In Odysseus' absence, Penelope is constantly courted by unwelcome suitors who are wasting her estate. Now a young man and fed up with the suitors, Telemachus travels to mainland Greece to inquire about his father. Odysseus eventually returns to his home of Ithaca to reunite with his family and to dispose of the suitors.<br /><br />There have been many disputes as to whether \\"The Odyssey\\" was really written by Homer and there's substantial evidence that it was not. Many scholars believe that a good portion of the Odyssey was written by a woman: probably a princess named Nausica whose court was in the Greek colony of Syracuse in Sicily and who cleverly inserted herself into the story. There's probably truth to that conclusion as the book is, first of all, a novel as opposed to a epic poetic recital such as \\"The Iliad\\" in which there is really no 1st person narrative.  The main characters are also primarily women.  The narrative seems to have a keen understanding of the female gender in terms of expectations, emotions, and behavior whereas the men are mostly faceless caricatures. This is completely inapposite to Homer's \\"Iliad\\" where the development of the male characters is rich and complex in contrast to those of women who are stereotypical representations without much depth (e.g. the women weep, moan, and are continuously reminded that their place is either in the bed or at the loom.) If one follows \\"The Odyssey\\" carefully, they will notice a distinct change in narrative style every time scenes are illustrated with nature or in various scenes involving the Gods which are very similar to the narrative style of \\"The Iliad.\\" Another indication that Homer was not the main writer is that, unlike \\"The Iliad\\", the writer has no clue as to ships, navigation, or wind patterns.<br /><br />Regardless of its true authorship, \\"The Odyssey\\" has been hailed as a literary jewel for the past 2900 years and there's a reason for it: it's a timeless look into the human condition as recited by a poet of immense talent. Although the characters may have lived over 3000 years ago, the epic drama has much relevance for humanity today. Fitzgerald provides a good translation that isn't weighed down like earlier ones with your \\"thys\\", \\"thees\\", \\"shalts\\", \\"doths\\", etc.  Although some his word choices can be awkward such as 'wily-nily' and such, his translation is more fluid than those of many other writers and allows the reader to appreciate the meter much more without being weighed down or diluted with either archaic or overly modern English. So enjoy this masterpiece of literature in one of the best translations available to date: your money will be well spent.acters may have lived over 3000 years ago, the epic drama has much relevance for humanity today. Fitzgerald provides a good translation that isn't weighed down like earlier ones with your \\"thys\\", \\"thees\\", \\"shalts\\", \\"doths\\", etc.  Although some his word choices can be awkward such as 'wily-nily' and such, his translation is more fluid than those of many other writers and allows the reader to appreciate the meter much more without being weighed down or diluted with either archaic or overly modern English. So enjoy this masterpiece of literature in one of the best translations available to date: your money will be well spent.	2005-03-10
US	29888707	R1TC4C1XP2HD1X	0192801384	53871315	A History of Roman Britain	Books	5	19	20	N	N	A Concise History of Roman Britain	Peter Salway's book offers a good insight into the evolution of Roman Britain from Julius Caesar's first expeditions in 55 and 54 BC to the fall of the Roman Empire c. 475 A.D.  Rather easy to read, its a book that can be enjoyed by historians and casual readers.    Peter Salway begins his book with background information on pre-Celtic England and the Celtic culture and then proceeds to discuss Romes first contacts with the Island under Julius Caesar.  As the book notes, Julius Caesar's British expeditions were failures in terms of conquests but successful as exploratory ones. The book then glosses over the period between Caesar and Claudius to discuss Britain's full invasion under Claudius.  The book discusses the effects of the invasion on the Celtic cultures and how they eventually incorporated many Roman customs into their own lives.  The book also covers trade and economics in the region.    This is altogether a great book that covers the subject quite well.  It's easy to read by anyone whether they have an advanced understanding of the subject or not.	2005-03-09
US	29888707	R2T0VO5WB2Y8EN	0520035453	438481796	The World of the Citizen in Republican Rome	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	A Scholarly Overview of Life in Republican Rome	Claude Nicolet's \\"The World of the Citizen in Republican Rome\\" is a work of fine scholarship demonstrating the author's thourough understanding of the subject and his consideration for his audience.  It is a work of which its depth of information, organization, and fluid writing will appeal to scholars and casual readers alike.    The magnificant aspect of Nicolet's works is that he strikes the right balance with erudition and comprehension.  His book's narrative prose covers very precise details as to Roman culture and its institutions with a socio-political emphasis more than anything else.  The book explains how Romans perceived civitas as a public duty either as commoners or aristocrats: his narrative focuses more on the aristocratic elite than the proletariat.  Nicolet explains the progression of public and private institutions as well as religious ones:  how people's participation in them affected Roman individual citizens.   His work is so elaborate and substantiated that even Erich Gruen, one of the leading scholars on the Roman Republic, found this expansive work to be excellently detailed and authoritative.    Overall, this is book is more a shcolarly work but its prose makes it not too weighed in erudition to not appeal to the general reader.  It's quite exhaustive as to the subjects it covers as well as thourough in their analysis.  I strongly recommend this work.	2005-03-08
US	29888707	R16HXSC0DQL94B	0500250367	510585038	The Hellenistic Kingdoms	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Good Introduction to Hellenistic Monarchs and their Coins	This book by Norman Davis is a good introduction to the monarchs of the Antigonid, Seleucid, Ptolemic, and Indo-Greek monarchs during the Hellenic period up to the 1st century B.C.  A good book that is great for the casual historian in that it has a lot of illustrations and scholarly erudition is kept to a minimum.    The book is actually two parts covering the same subject.  The first half of the book provides various photographs of coins in each dynasty or kingdom and the second half provides a summary of those monarchs explaining the period of their rule, their achievements, and their demise.  This book is particulary useful in providing basic summaries and time frames for rulers of the Indo-Greek kingdoms as they were numerous and their monarchies usually unstable: there is also little evidence for them other than coins and some classical writers such as Arian.    This is a good introductory book that can be read by casual readers as well as scholars.  The book has countless photographs of coins and good summaries of the rulers they portray.  I strongly recommend this book.	2005-03-08
US	29888707	RZDQFECHZBNIT	0719513359	229988356	Rome on the Euphrates	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Rome's Eastern Frontier	In this book, Freya Stark recites her travels in the Middle East as she stops near the important cities and battlefields that marked the fluctuating borders between Rome and Parthia.  A good scholarly presentation that is backed by strong historical evidence and research.    The book reviews Rome's first contact with Parthia under Sulla in the early 1st century B.C. to the time of the Byzantines and the Sassanians.  Stark argues that the Euphrates river marked the geo-political limits of each empire and that incessant warfare between them was only a waste of resources as neither had the ability of expanding any further.  Stark also covers how the military tactics of each state were a disadvantage against their enemies.  Rome's strongest military asset was its infantry and its ability to conduct extended sieges but the legions were slow, with limited range, and vulnerable to cavalry.  Parthia's main asset was its heavy cavalry and archers that could cover vast distances rapidly.  The Parthian empire was a disadvantage to Roman legions as the territory was vast and primarily suited for cavalry engagements: legions such as Crassus' at Carrhae could easily be outmanevered, enveloped, and crushed.  Parthia's cavalry on the other hand was of little use in confined territories and even less useful in laying sieges: Parthian invasions into Roman territories therefore tended to be short and more akin to raids and skirmishes than full invasions.    This is a good book on studying the frontier between Rome and Parthia and how it affected both empires.  Stark's arguments are well supported by historical texts and other evidence: her research is sound.  The book is not a scholarly lecture or dissertation and so can be read by someone who has little to no knowledge of Roman history.	2005-03-08
US	29888707	RREJMWAZJWHIH	B0006BQ5IY	695977781	Rome on the Euphrates;: The story of a frontier	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Rome's Eastern Frontier	In this book, Freya Stark recites her travels in the Middle East as she stops near the important cities and battlefields that marked the fluctuating borders between Rome and Parthia. A good scholarly presentation that is backed by strong historical evidence and research.     The book reviews Rome's first contact with Parthia under Sulla in the early 1st century B.C. to the time of the Byzantines and the Sassanians. Stark argues that the Euphrates river marked the geo-political limits of each empire and that incessant warfare between them was only a waste of resources as neither had the ability of expanding any further. Stark also covers how the military tactics of each state were a disadvantage against their enemies. Rome's strongest military asset was its infantry and its ability to conduct extended sieges but the legions were slow, with limited range, and vulnerable to cavalry. Parthia's main asset was its heavy cavalry and archers that could cover vast distances rapidly. The Parthian empire was a disadvantage to Roman legions as the territory was vast and primarily suited for cavalry engagements: legions such as Crassus' at Carrhae could easily be outmanevered, enveloped, and crushed. Parthia's cavalry on the other hand was of little use in confined territories and even less useful in laying sieges: Parthian invasions into Roman territories therefore tended to be short and more akin to raids and skirmishes than full invasions.     This is a good book on studying the frontier between Rome and Parthia and how it affected both empires. Stark's arguments are well supported by historical texts and other evidence: her research is sound. The reading is not purely a scholarly lecture and so can be read by someone who has little to no knowledge of Roman history.	2005-03-08
US	29888707	RVKXX717KRF1O	0199261083	787793449	The Constitution of the Roman Republic	Books	5	52	53	N	Y	A Comprehensive Overview of Rome's Republican Institutions	Andrew Lintott's book is a valuable work providing a thourough overview of the Roman Republic's institutions from the Early Republic to the Empire.   It is a good companion to Fergus Millar's 'The Crowd in Rome in the Late Republic' which explores the dynamics illustrated in this work within the narrow context of Rome from Sulla to the Civil War.     The title of the book is somewhat deceptive as the Roman Republic never had a charter or constitutional document to guide its institutions.  Instead, the powers and functions of its various governmental bodies were operated by tradition and ad hoc enactments serving as precedent.  The Senate was a hereditary post held on property and wealth qualifications of which the patrician class had the strongest voice but whose members such as Caesar, despite having property, had cash flow problems tied to their slave based agriculture economy.  As with Caesar who needed wealthy noble patrons like Crassus or nepotism through his plebeian uncle Marius to get ahead, despoiled patricians needed money or broad popular support to keep their pedigree prestige in the political spotlight. Commanding a war and plundering treasures was usually the most direct route to those ends: the only real impasse being others in the Senate who have the same design which meant virtually everyone.  There was also no judiciary oversight in the legislation and execution of laws to define political parameters: the institutions had only themselves to rely on which often meant returning to square one and then fighting civil wars to settle it. All of these elements are in hindsight extremely volatile politically where masses of urban poor who have no land or future are eager to serve in virtually private armies run by politically rused commanders such as Caesar. This led to the formation of large private and violent cult-hero factions fighting in the Forum for the cause of a professional army devoted only to its commander and not the decree simply giving him unlimited authority to command it.  If the political process failed, these armies brought their weight into the Forum for a final bearing as to the politics that would be decided there. It is no wonder the Romans eventually preferred being under one dictator permanently instead of always many at once.    The book provides a good analysis of the framework of these mechanics that took place through the span of the Republic.  Other authors such as Gruen or Millar focus on these dynamics more in terms of the politics and agents of the Late Republic specifically.  This work is important because the Roman Republic's political system was rather convoluted and its dynamics are difficult to grasp as people voted in defined classes based on wealth and fixed geographic regions instead of as individuals.  Furthermore, votes could only be cast in Rome in either the Forum or the Campus Martius if they were to be considered.  The book relies on classical texts to analyze the development and role of political institutions such as the Senate and the various voting assemlies such as the Comitia Centuriata and the Concilium Plebis and explains how political suffrage through these voting blocks operated in the various political offices and the Senate.  The powers of political offices such as the tribunate, praetorship, consulship, censorship, etc., are also defined with detail.    This is a great book giving a thourough overview of the Roman Republic's political institutions and offices.  All of the information is supported by thorough research of primarily textual and archeological evidence as well as the previous work of others.  I wouldn't recommend this work as an introductory text on Roman history as its depth and scope would already require some basic knowledge of the subject.  I do strongly recommend this work to anyone who has more than a fleeting interest in Roman history, political science, or sociology.	2005-03-08
US	29888707	R21XJHO1HFJRH5	0890051097	471044547	Coin Types of the Indo-Greek Kings	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Compilation of Scholarly Research on Indo-Greek Civilization	A. K. Narain's book on Indo-Greek civilization is more of a compilation of several scholarly essays involving historical and archeological research on various Hellenic monarchies in what today would be modern Afghanistan, Uzbekistan, Tajikistan, Pakistan, and India.  An important contribution as narrative and archeological evidence of Greek culture in that region is scarce: our present information on Indo-Greek cultures being based primarily on numismatic evidence identifying kings and the length of their rule.    After Alexander's conquest of Persia, Seleucus and his immediate successors encouraged the immigration of Greeks and other western peoples into their new empire.  The eastern provinces soon became independent monarchies ruled by Greek governors or mercenaries who  were tempted both by the wealth of their province and their distance from Antioch.  With the rise of the Parthians, these kingdoms became even more physically and culturally separated from Greece and eventually became absorbed into the regions and cultures they ruled.  Located along the trade routes to India and China, these independent Greek monarchies (some no more than individual cities) became very properous and wealthy: over 20,000 pieces have been found at one sight alone.  Their ethnically diverse inhabitants created a rich blend of western and eastern cultures combining Western Aristotelean thoughts with the spiritualism of Buddism and other Eastern religions.  All if not most of these kingdoms became completely absorbed by their indigenous inhabitants by the late 1st century B.C.:  the kingdoms in Bactria/Sogdiana were overrun by Huns and other nomadic groups from the Asian steppe while those in India were absorbed by their neighboring kingdoms.  The book primarily covers Greek civilization in the Swat Valley along the Indus river and cities such as Taxila in modern Pakistan.  Other articles cover archeological finds in the Greek city of Ai Khanoum in northern Afghanistan: the only Greekcity found so far in that region.  The book also covers a anthropological studies on the arrival of nomadic tribes from the steppe and their ensuing destruction of the Bactrian kingdoms.  The majority of the essays in the book cover numismatic evidence and their identification of various Indo-Greek kings, their treasurers, etc.    I wouldn't recommend this book for the general reader due to the doctoral format of the articles compiled which can be quite technical and unengaging.  Again, this book is a compilation of doctoral essays and not a linear chronological study of Hellenic civilization in the East.  I found the book to have important information about a field of Hellenic studies that has been somewhat neglected for the last 30 or more years due to the political problems in that region (e.g. Afghanistan, Kashmir, etc.) The information in this book is quite valuable and makes it an important addition to any classical scholar's library. Again, I wouldn't recommend this work as an introductory text as its depth and scope would already require a rather advanced knowledge of the subject: particulary in the numismatic field.  For a broader analysis of the Seleucid empire as a whole, I would recommend the hard-to-find \\"From Samarkhand to Sardis: A New Approach to the Seleucid Empire (Hellenistic Culture and Society)\\" by Susan Sherwin White; not easily found and expensive, it is one of the few recent studies available on the Seleucid empire offering new and sound theories derived from textual and more recent archeological evidence.	2005-03-08
US	29888707	R27RYEZZWP49ZO	0710099754	292137364	The Roman World	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Solid and Exhaustive	This 2-volume text edited by John Wacher is one of the most respected texts on Roman history providing an extensive analysis of Roman civilization from the Early Republic to the Empire.  Although the books can appeal to a general audience, they can also become rather technical as they are more oriented towards Masters and Doctoral students of classical studies.  The books are also large, heavy, and quite expensive.    The two volumes cover in detail very specific subjects in addition to presenting general summaries.  They are exhaustive in the range of subjects they cover and the research material they're based on.  The books are also illustrated with countless maps, charts, and photographs.  The books review Rome's evolution and support their summaries with extensive referrences to classical texts, archeological evidence, and numismatic evidence. The only draw back would be that it seems to give too little attention to Republican Rome and much more to Imperial Rome; about 1/4 of the text seems to involve the Roman Republic while 3/4 of it seems devoted to Imperial Rome.    Although the books focus more on the Empire than the Republic, I still recommend this work as one of the most exhaustive books providing an advanced and detailed overview of Roman civilization.  My only caveat is that the books are expensive, long, and can become somewhat technical; the books may therefore be too much information to those who want only a very general introductory or illustrative text on Roman history.  For such readers, I would recommend the Cambridge Illustrated History edition (not to be confused with the collossal Cambridge Ancient History volumes) and Lesley and Roy Adkins' 'Handbook to Life In Ancient Rome' as they may be a better choices in terms of size,  more general summaries, and the $220 difference in price.	2005-03-08
US	29888707	R3F2Q4HDN9SX5P	0140440852	801058727	The Voyage of Argo: The Argonautica (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	8	10	N	N	An Enchanting Epic	The 'Argonautica' was written in the 3rd Century B.C. and depicts the pre-Homeric voyage of Jason to the land of Colchis in search of the Golden Fleece: a golden lamb's fleece brought by the gods that can work miracles.  Unlike Homer's poetry of the Iliad and the Odyssey, this work was written in the Hellenic age and therefore focuses much more on action instead of poetic recitals and extensive character developments common to the Classical/Homeric period. Nevertheless, this work offers a great adventure of heroes, gods, and beasts that make it a pleasurable reading experience for adults and children alike.    Jason is the lawful heir of Thessally and seeks to avenge his father's death against the usurper, Pelias.  In an effort to keep him at bay, Pelias convinces Jason that he must go on a perilous journey to Colchis to obtain the Golden Fleece before he can claim the throne of Thessally.  Eager to claim his kingdom, Jason calls upon all of the greatest of Greek champions to join him on his quest.  Requisitioning the ship 'The Argos' for the voyage, Jason is accompanied by a crew of Greece's greatest heroes and demi-gods such as Hercules, Castor, Polydeuces, and Odysseus' father, Laertes.  After crossing many perils under the protection of Hera, the Argos reaches Colchis on the other side of the world (present day Georgia and Turkey on the shore of the Black Sea.)  Deceiving King Aeetes, Jason runs off with the Golden Fleece and the king's daughter Medea to return to Greece in triumph.    This is a great adventure covering the heroic age of Greece a generation before the time of the Iliad and the Odyssey.  The novel is, as typical of the Hellenic novel, fast paced on plot with only minimal character studies.  Unlike the Iliad, this work was a novel meant to be read as opposed to being orally recited as poetry.  A novel that's fun to read for itself or to study Greek history and mythology.  A fun story for adults and children alike.	2005-03-07
US	29888707	R313WBZ6GSM2ZP	0553580531	409245980	Gates of Fire: An Epic Novel of the Battle of Thermopylae	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	'Come and take them!'	Such was King Leonidas' reply to Xerxes' request that he surrender his Spartans at the pass of Thermopylae.  Stephen Pressfield's novel covers the most remembered battle of the Second Persian War against Greece in 480 B.C. with a captivating style that covers almost every detail of Sparta's strict culture and military society.  A must for anyone who enjoys history or simply good dramatic fiction.    The narrative opens at the close of the battle of Thermopylae and the 300 defiant Spartans, along with King Leonidas, have been killed to the last: Xeo,a Spartan Helot (serf/squire), is the only survivor and is held prisoner by the Persians.  Astounded by the fanatical bravery of the Spartans, King Xerxes asks Xeo to tell him more about the Spartans: what makes them so brave?  Xeo then goes back to the time he first lived with the Spartans and begins to recite about various events and persons who shaped his life.  Xeo essentially recites the various social institutions and customs of Sparta such as their dual monarchy, their militarized citizenry, and their dependence on a large slave society (Helots.)  The narrative then progresses towards the passing of the Hellespont by Xerxes, the commencement of the war, and the battle.  The narrative of the King's translator  complements that of Xeo's and adds details as to what happens after Thermopylae such as the burning of Athens, the naval engagement at Salamis, and, the final battle at Plaetae.    Pressfield presents a good multi-narrative that keeps the audience in suspense.  Pressfield is quite knowledgeable about his subject but also makes various mistakes.  Pressfield completely omits including homosexual subjects although historical evidence on Spartan values is overwhelming in showing that such behavior was reinforced (i.e. men fight better when they defend those they love.)  Although poetic license and modern tastes may require the exclusion of such a theme, homosexuality was nevertheless part of Spartan culture and military ethos.  Another example is where Pressfield makes one of the characters use an analogy that one's face was as red as a tomato.  Tomatoes are a New World crop that didn't come to Europe until 2000 years after the setting of this story: no one in Classical Greece would have known anything about tomatoes.    Despite some of its defects, 'Gates of Fire' is quite accurate historically and is well written.  A great reading experience for all lovers of history and historical fiction.	2005-03-07
US	29888707	RQRAHPEYV3CBH	0452010055	121900974	The Satyricon (Meridian Classics)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	A Burlesque Satire	Petronius' Satyricon is a unique satire on decadence and pleasure. Although the story takes place during Nero's reign, one begins to see that many of the scenes have relevance to today's society and its own debaucheries. <br /> <br />The story follows the adventures of Aschyltus and Encolpio; two rhetoricians who are on an infinite quest for pleasure. Their frienship is challenged by their mutual attraction to Giton, a scoundrelous slave-boy who seems to have more wits and vices than all of the other characters. This triad of debauches is also joined by Emolpus, a trickster and pseudo-intellectual who's always scheming on how he can use his sophistry to hit the jack pot. The most memorable scene in the fragmentary work is Trimalchio's dinner; this chapter surprisingly brings the ancient past closer to modern times in its recital of the characters' casual conversations on money, opportunism, business, and, of course, pleasure. <br /> <br />Although some readers have complained that Arrowsmith's translation isn't faithful to some of the Latin terms, the truth is (as is the case with any other foreign works) that some of the words don't have a counterpart in the English language (or any other modern language.) It is therefore the duty of the translator to use his poetic licence in conjuring the best phrase or sentence that can convey the theme or jist of the statement in question. I personally found this translation the most faithful in trying to convey the type of low-brow humor and puns that Petronius seems to have intended in his work. I strongly recommend this translation above other for that reason. <br /> <br />	2005-03-01
US	29888707	R33ODW8IK7YPPT	0374130256	632403416	Count Belisarius	Books	3	5	8	N	N	One of Grave's Poorer Works	The story follows the Byzantine Empire's rule under Justinian and his greatest general, Belisarius. The narrator is the enuch servant of Belisarius' wife who follows him along on his campaigns.    The narrative closely resembles the fast-paced Greek narrative style which focuses more on action as opposed to character development. As a result, the characters appear two-dimensional and seem more like clumsy marionnettes being bounced around the stage of a puppet show. The relation between Belisarius' wife and the Empress Theodora seems to have the most depth in the story because of their unique relationship when they were younger. However, all of the other characters are shallow: the motives to their actions aren't really explored as much as they should be.    Although Graves tries bring forward the same murderous and conspiratorial plots as in \\"I, Claudius\\", this seems to come far short. The descriptions of the battles have some merit, particularly those of the Italian campaign and the siege of Rome. I did enjoy his descriptions of the incessant Christian factionalism that pervaded this period; showing how the religion was slowly emerging from its cult origins through the formation of more permanent and politically active institutions.    All in all, I felt as if I would have enjoyed reading a purely historical account of Belisarius more than the novel itself. I wouldn't recommend this novel as a first book to read by Graves for fear that it may bias the reader as to his other great literary work and scholarly contributions.	2005-03-01
US	29888707	R2693UPNYJPMAH	0312980329	829154026	The Ten Thousand: A Novel of Ancient Greece	Books	1	6	10	N	Y	No Theme or Plot	Michael Curtis Ford's narrative on the Greek mercenary army led by Xenophon into the regal struggle between Persian monarchs after the Peloponesian war. The narrative is recited by Themistogenes (Theo), Xenophon's slave from boyhood. Although the historical context offers potential for a great narrative if handled by a talented writer, Ford's rendition delivers nothing but shallow characters, and a disjointed plot that supports absolutely no theme except for a crude romantic tale that is completely out of place for a novel set in antiquity. <br /> <br />In terms of plot, the story starts in an unrelated Athenian campaign led by Xenophon that offers absolutely no insight into the story and confuses the reader. Although the story follows the preparation, execution, and ultimate failure of the mercenary expedition into Persia, the focus is primarily on Theo's perspective which is unimpressive and dull. In addition, all of the characters are minimally developed throughout the story making the story rather unimaginative. Xenophon is placed as the heroic leader of the doomed expedition and should have the most development but is relegated to a marginal role. Instead, the story focuses on Theo who is more preoccupied with a rather unbelievable romantic sub-plot that completely takes away all force from the narrative. Half the story focuses primarily on Theo's affection for Asteria, a Persian woman of the court who, for rather nebulous reasons, decides to attach herself to a mere slave with no personality and no bright future. <br /> <br />The crude plot and minimal character development results in a story that is completely devoid of theme. What conflict and resolution is reflected here? How was it manifested by the characters? Again, other than a crudely executed romantic sub- plot, those questions are left unexplored and unresolved throughout the narrative.  In sum, this work is horribly unimaginative. The characters do not evolve in the story. The only change in the characters occurs in the context of a sub-plot that is completely out of place for such a narrative and thus the credibility and legitimacy of the narrative is progressively eroded to the point of being themeless. <br /> <br />Ford's work slightly improves in his second novel \\"Gods and Legions\\" but that work has critical flaws of its own. Being rather unimpressed with two of Ford's novels so far, I'm not about to waste my money on his third: there are simply too many writers out there who are far better for me to waste money on these uncreative works. I would recommend Gore Vidal's \\"Julian\\", Robert Graves' \\"I Claudius\\", or Stephen Pressfield's \\"Tides of War\\" and \\"Gates of Fire\\" instead of anything written by Ford. <br /> <br />	2005-03-01
US	29888707	R3BZP47JCG94BK	0691027390	835445752	Controlling Laughter	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Invective In Roman Trials and Politics	The people of the Roman Republic prized their freedom and were very active in the civic life that revolved around the Forum. Particularly during the Late Republic, rhetorical training was of great importance and civic participation was taken as a duty.  Although significantly less so in during the imperial period, political speeches were frequent in both assemblies and trials that always involved large crowds of free citizens performing their civic duty.    Corbeil's book focuses on the function of invective in persuasive speeches during the Roman Republic. His primary reference materials are Cicero's trials and speeches. Corbeil shows that such invectives reinforced social norms and preconceptions Romans had about traits and behaviors. Corbeil demonstrates how humorous references to a person's name, appearance, or traits were used to support a conclusion about whether such a person was inclined to be dishonest, foolish, careless, etc. and thus disbelieved or shunned.    This is altogether innovative look into the cultural and political dynamics of ancient Rome studying rhetorical practices in the use of invectives as exemplified through Cicero's speeches and trials.  A good companion to this book would be Gregory Aldrete's 'Gestures and Acclamations in Ancient Rome' that covers the nonverbal aspects of rhetorical practice in both the Late Republic and Principate.	2005-03-01
US	29888707	RVOTW1KKWW4P8	0195123328	344735750	Handbook to Life in Ancient Rome	Books	5	9	9	N	N	A Great Book for Beginners and Scholars	Lesley and Roy Adkins' book on Roman civilization is a thourough categorical text covering everything from political institutions to fashion. The book also has extensive photographs and illustrations detailing countless subjects such as military formations and equipment, roads, city plans and development, architecture, etc., etc. For a general reference guide, it's the most exhaustive, detailed, and accurate text I have ever found. A perfect book that can be easily used by adults or children, and teachers or students.    If you are just beginning to learn about Roman civilization, I strongly recommend this book above all other introductory texts: there's simply no comparison! As you learn more of the basic information, the book has an excellent bibliography and reference guide to authoritative books or academic texts that focus on a specific area. This book is truly one of the best investments one can make in the study of ancient Rome.	2005-03-01
US	29888707	R3C8MVZGR7IMA2	067972477X	111847135	I, Claudius From the Autobiography of Tiberius Claudius Born 10 B.C. Murdered and Deified A.D. 54 (Vintage International)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A Literary Masterpiece	This is by far the best of Robert Grave's fictional works. A convincing portrayal of what life was like at the core of the early Roman empire.    Graves masterfully develops the character of Claudius as he ponders his life and impresses his thoughts on to his \\"autobiography.\\" The reader is then taken through the ambitions and intrigues of the Julio-Claudian dynasty from the reign of Augustus to Nero's. Through the eyes of Claudius, the reader is given a bird's eye view into the dynastic contests with wit and humor as well as the evolution of the empire from the remnants of a crumbled republic. With this insight, Claudius is soon appreciated by the reader as having a keen intellect as opposed to being dull and slow of wit. His desire for truth and his loathing of the imperial struggle gives his story clarity and impartiality. All of the characters are well developed; their actions and motivations all come to light in the course of the story.    Along with Gore Vidal's \\"Julian\\" this is one of the greatest works in historical fiction in this genre or any genre. A must read for anyone who enjoys history or just a good story full of intrigue and suspense.	2005-03-01
US	29888707	R2WRJ8YOZF3S0A	0801859905	373259821	Roman Aristocratic Parties and Families	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Prodigious Work	Despite being a republic with democratic institutions, Roman society was comprised mainly of a caste system divided between patricians and plebeians.  Although the patrician class was a hereditary nobility, each class who had at least one consular ancestor were collectively treated as nobles (nobiles.) Family ancestry and ancestral worship were therefore very important in Ancient Rome. Roman families were also extended and paternal authority was omnipotent over family affairs. A Roman father patriarch of the family had supreme authority over all matters affecting his extended family(patria potestas.)  A Roman aristocrat's duty was to bring honor to his family by achieving political and/or military fame. Although it wasn't the sole determinant, one's patrician or noble ancestry could carry immense influence in the coveting of political office or swaying public opinion in the forum. It was for no small reason that Julius Caesar claimed to be a descendant of Aeneas and so from the godess Venus.    After 70 years, Munzer is still one of the leading authorities in the study of Roman history and politics. Thanks to his contributions, historians have been able to better understand the political changes and upheavals of the Roman republic and early empire that resulted from family feuds and alliances. Munzer carefully researched historical texts and other sources to trace the family trees of several important families such as the Metelli, Claudii, etc., to study how they affected the politics of their time.    I wouldn't recommend this work as an introductory text on Roman history as its depth and scope would already require some advanced knowledge of the subject.  This book is, however, a must for anyone who seeks to have a thorough understanding of Roman history and its institutions. I strongly recommend it.	2005-03-01
US	29888707	R1MBGXAB4PD67O	0140440720	437473421	The Twelve Caesars (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Great Introductory Book to Imperial Rome	Suetonius grew up in the years following Nero's reign and wrote these histories while he was the secretary of the emperor Hadrian in the early second century A.D. His book covers the successive reigns of Julius Caesar, Augustus, Tiberius, Caligula, Claudius, Nero, Galba, Otho, Vitellius, Vespasian, Titus, and Domitian.    The stories focus on the emperors themselves more than the events which took place under their reigns and, although there's certainly some truth to those emperors, many of Suetonius' facts are anecdotal stories and rumors. Suetonius has therefore been called one of the first tabloid writers. Nevertheless, his biographies are rather concise and systematic; touching upon the physical attributes of the ruler, his background, the good deeds (if any) in his reign and then, of course, the bad deeds.    Robert Graves' translation is superb and carries the jovial mood of the writings quite well.  I can't help but be amused at some of the stories Suetonius recites on Nero and Caligula as they are definitely two of the most eccentric emperors (to put it lightly)that ever ruled the Principate. For example, when Nero first inaugurated his new gigantic Golden House with a mile-long corridor and a 130' statue of himself at the entrance, he was said to have exclaimed, \\"At last! I can live like a human being!\\"	2005-03-01
US	29888707	R289AC4EV267KC	0674994434	272380930	Caesar: Alexandrian War. African War. Spanish War (Loeb Classical Library No. 402)	Books	5	27	28	N	N	VENI VIDI VICI	Although there are many translations of this work available on the market, there are few publications that offer Caesar's work in its original Latin as well as with its English translation in one single text. Over the last century, Loeb publishers have been unique in providing their readers with the original text and the translated version side-by-side for every reader to view. Furthermore, these works were translated by some of the best classical scholars of the day in a fluid style that has stood the test of time. I strongly recommend Loeb's publication of Caesar's Alexandrian/African/Spanish War over that of other publishers: there's simply no comparison.    This sequel to Caesar's Civil Wars follows the aftermath of Pompey's defeat at the battle of Pharsallus and his escape to Egypt. Caesar comments on his pursuit of Pompey to Alexandria only to find his severed head being offered to him by the young King Ptolemy. He also explains his attempt at securing the harbor of Alexandria with the support of King Ptolemy's sister, the legendary queen-to-be Cleopatra VII. His narrative then covers his finishing operations against Pompey's remaining supporters in Africa and in Spain.  Caesar is extremely detailed as to his tactics and strategies. He presents his information in a brief and concise way without sophistry. Caesar provides his rationale for his strategies such as his assessment of the enemy's intentions and strength, the topography, etc.     Most modern scholars agree that the works were probably dictated by Caesar and written down by one or more of his subordinates. It is important to understand that Caesar's Commentaries were rhetorical and had a political agenda. Caesar dictated (he always liked dictating) his Commentataries on the Civil War to win political favor and secure a continuation of his political career. These bulletins won him support in the Senate or in the Forum with the people so that he would secure his grip on Rome's politics until the fatefulIdes of March in 44 B.C.    As with all of his other works, the reader should be cautious and approach this narrative as political propaganda. Caesar was a shrude politician and a charismatic populist. In order to obtain the broadest support in what remained of the Republic, Caesar always made sure his audience in Rome was well informed as to how he was justified in his actions and how successful he was; even though that was not always the case. He was also very careful in downplaying his dictatorial ambitions and errors in judgment while emphasizing those of his opponents. To ensure this, he dictated and disseminated these Commentaries which we treasure today as a window to the distant past.    I cannot recommend this translation enough as one of the best available today. As for the work itself, it is a direct account from one of the greatest military and political leaders in human history: a man whose fateful crossing of the Rubicon over 2000 years ago changed the face of the world like a collossus until our present time; a man whose innovative military stratagems have not only been tested true time and time again, but are still taught today in virtually every military academy. It is a priceless work that all should read at least once in their life.	2005-03-01
US	29888707	R3ABMC3S7Y9OEM	0198606419	534369956	The Oxford Classical Dictionary	Books	5	14	15	N	N	The Most Exhaustive Referrence Guide To Greco-Roman Studies	The Oxford Classical Dictionary is the most reputed if not exhaustive reference guide to every conceivable subject involving antiquity. Whether one seeks information on Julius Casear or birth-control, this book has it all. Each topic is organized alphabetically and has a detailed section with bibliographical references to contemporary works as well as classical sources.    There's simply no comparable book available other than perhaps Adkins & Adkins, A Handbook To Life In Ancient Rome and A Handbook To Life In Ancient Greece: even so, although those books are great general reference guides in their own right, they are limited in the topics they cover. In comparison, The Oxford Classical Dictionary covers Greco-Roman civilization ad nauseam; it even has brief summaries about other classical civilizations such as the Persians, Parthians, Phoenicians, Scythians, etc.     Although I wouldn't recommend this as a first book for the casual reader, this book is indispensible for all serious scholars of classical studies. It isn't cheap but the amount of information in this text makes it worth every penny. Owning one myself and having benefitted immensely from it in my own studies, I most strongly recommend this book.	2005-03-01
US	29888707	R2SH2BJ3IBVR0I	0553382047	591346591	Last of the Amazons	Books	1	14	21	N	Y	A Pretentious and Absurd Pseudo-Homeric Narrative	After reading \\"Tides of War\\" and \\"Gates of Fire\\", I found this work to be a major disappointment: almost as if it was written by another writer altogether.    The story follows the reign of Athens' legendary king, Theseus, who in his younger days had run through Knossos' labyrinth and defeated the minotaur.  Antiope, the queen of the Amazons, has fallen in love with Theseus and run off with him.  Angered by her treason, the Amazons try to unleash their revenge by declaring war and besieging Athens.    The narrative seemed to be a feeble rhetorical exercise at capturing the Homeric style but failing to deliver any passion: a pale imitation, nothing more. The characters are rather bland without any dimensions; the norms and motivations to their actions go beyond the lapse of time and become altogether unbelievable as, unlike Homer, there's simply no passion to their words. The plot seemed to be overextended in every chapter with long pompous dialogues and monologues that come off simply as bad imitations of the Homeric style: it put me to sleep.  Even if treated in the context of a novel, I find Apollonius' \\"Argonautica\\" or Homer's \\"Odyssey\\" to be a far better reading experience.    I expected more from an author such as Pressfield than this unimpressive work. I would recommend the two books mentioned previously over this one to anyone who isn't familiar with his works. If your want to read an epic narrative read Gilgamesh, Beowulf, Homer's Iliad and Oddyssey, or Appolonius' \\"Argonautica\\" instead of this dull and pretentious pseudo-epic.	2005-03-01
US	29888707	R2SJM2KRBEX07K	0674990803	760444776	Caesar: The Gallic War (Loeb Classical Library)	Books	5	54	61	N	N	Caesar's Propaganda	Although there are many translations of Caesar's Gallic War, Loeb is unique in providing the reader with not only the translation, but the original Latin text on the accompanying page. Loeb also provides translations from some of the best scholars in classical studies. As for the text itself, it is a priceless insight into the life of one of the world's greatest statesmen and military leaders.    Caesar's third person account covers his campaigns in Gaul, Germania, and Britannia (modern Switzerland, France, Belgium, Germany, and England) from 58-50 B.C. Most modern scholars agree that the works were probably dictated by Caesar and written down by one or more of his subordinates. It is important to understand that Caesar's Commentaries were rhetorical and had a political agenda. Caesar often dictated the development of his campaigns to be dispatched to Rome so that it could be propagated by his political supporters. This was done because Caesar's extraordinary command in Gaul was always subject to being terminated by his opponents, whereby he could face criminal prosecution upon his return. By the public circulation of these propagandist bulletins, Caesar sought to obtain support in the Senate or in the Forum with the people to both avoid Rome's political pitfalls and subjugate Gaul at the same time while getting filthy rich in the process.    Caesar is extremely detailed as to his tactics and strategies. He presents his information in a brief and concise way without sophistry. Caesar provides his rationale for his strategies and his evaluation of the enemy's potential. Caesar gives a detailed account of movements, sieges, river crossings, and his mastery of logistics. His best account is probably his final struggle with Vercingetorix, the fierce and charismatic Gallic chieftan who rallied all of the tribes in one final struggle against Rome and surrendered at the siege of Alesia. Ceasar clearly shows admiration for his fierce opponent and how he honorably surrendered himself at Alesia in 50 B.C. to save his followers from imminent starvation: Caesar had him garotted soon after returning in Triumph. The Commentaries also recite his unfulfilled victory/miserable defeat in conquering Britain. Caesar's commentaries are also extremely valuable in understanding the Gauls or Celts in general. As time passed after Caesar's conquest, the Gauls and most Celtic cultures became completely assimilated into Roman civilization and left little of their heritage behind. Unfortunately, Celtic culture had no written tradition and much of their culture is understood through the works of their Roman invaders or through Greek writers such as Polybius. Indirect information about Celtic culture is also obtained from studying its surviving offspring in Wales and Ireland. Thus, Caesar's writing offers a unique insight into Celtic culture, politics, and religion of druidism. As a matter of fact, Caesar probably sped up the extinction of Celtic culture by systematically persecuting the druidic sects who were the Celts' spiritual force and keepers of knowledge. A similar strategy was effectively carried out by the Spanish conquistadores in the Americas 1500 years later, thereby eliminating all essential traces of indigenous identity and solidarity. His commentaries do have some exaggerations as to troop numbers and fabled stories of the still unknown Germanic tribes; in those cases much of what he recites are rather fanciful accounts similar to those of 15th century European navigators.     As an author, Caesar is one of only three statesmen/authors from the late Roman Republic whose works have survived (Sallustius and Cicero being the others.) Along with his Civil War commentaries, his work is a priceless look into the politics, culture, warfare, and personalities of that period. Few, if any, political or militray leaders in history have had an impact on humanity as great and far reaching as Caesar. His conquests and statesmanship still resonate today inboth our political and social institutions. It is a work that everyone should read at least once in their life to better understand the world they live in today.	2005-03-01
US	29888707	R80VTKFYKMXO2	0140171991	622842279	The Greek Myths: Complete Edition	Books	5	5	10	N	N	An Insightful Theory About the Origins of the Greek Myths	Robert Graves' \\"Greek Myths\\" is an innovative review of Greek Mythology. The book provides compiled summaries for each main Greek hero and deity. Graves then provides his own evaluation as to the anthropological origins of the myths in the context of early Greek civilization. His focus is primarily on Minoan and pre-Mycenean civilizations. <br /> <br />Through etymology and historical analysis, Graves contends that Greek mythology is a compilation of two distinct religious practices that were later merged. Graves argues that cults for female godesses such Hera, Diane, Athena, Hecate, etc., were the product of early Greek matriarchal/amazonian societies. Graves argues that myths such as the castration of Kronos and the labors of Herakles refer to the practice of mock-kings who were used for ceremony in fertility rituals. Such mock-kings, Graves recites, were sacrificed at the end of the ritual by the Amazon Queen. Graves suggests that the traditional patriarchal triad of Zeus, Hades, and Poseidon was introduced later when the Myceneans invaded Greece and conquered these matriarchies. <br /> <br />Overall, the book offers a direction of study that would be useful in corroborating a facinating theory about societies in Ancient Greece and how their evolution was presented through mythology. Unfortunately, as is usual with virtually an myth, the reason events usually become mythical is because there were few hard facts left behind to corroborate the truth that lies behind them. <br /> <br />	2005-03-01
US	29888707	R9NINSZ7Z25SR	0385059418	627065254	The Iliad	Books	5	16	16	N	N	"Anger be now your song immortal one..."	The Iliad, as with other Greek poetry, was poetry intended to be recited orally as opposed to being read. Fitzgerald's backgroung in poetry brings out the lyrical passion of the Iliad so prized by the Greeks as no other translation has done.<br /><br />The Iliad represents the last phase of what is known as Greece's Heroic Age in which human events are governed by gods, demi-gods, and heroes with godlike gifts. Tales such as Jason and the Argonauts, the labors of Hercules, Perseus, Theseus, etc., are also of that period.  Fate and mortality are always the dominant themes in these tales. The setting of the Iliad is c. 1200 B.C. at the close of the Bronze Age.  The Greeks are actually Myceneans, a Greek-speaking group that dominated Greece prior to the Doric invasions several centuries later.  The story poetically recites a time of Myceanean political, economic, and military/maritime expansion across the Mediterranean and its clash with the civilizations of Asia Minor such as Troy.<br /><br />The Iliad itself starts in the 9th year of the war where all of the kings of Greece have come to fight for their chief King, Agamemnon, and his brother, Menelaus, whose wife Helen has been abducted by the Trojan prince Paris. The feuding Olympian gods won't give either side victory until Zeus weighs his scale and makes a final judgment.  Achilles and Agamemnon, Menelaus' brother, are at odds over the sharing of spoils.  Agamemnon insults Achilles' pride by taking his trophy girl, Briseis, from him.  Enraged by Agamemnon's actions, Achilles refuses to continue fighting until his honor is redeemed.  Without their champion, the Greeks begin suffering continuous defeats at the hands of the Trojans and Prince Hektor.  The story follows Achilles' refusal to fight until he lusts for revenge for the death of Patroklos, his squire and lover.  The story ends with Achilles surrendering the body of Hektor to Priam.  The origins and final conclusion of the conflict are not included in the Iliad: those stories are fragmentarily recited in other works such as the Odyssey and various Greek tragedies.  A complete story of the Trojan horse and the fall of Troy is recited in Quintus Smyrnaeus' novel, \\"The Fall of Troy.\\"<br /><br />Homer is very descriptive and graphic in his narrative.  His battle descriptions are extremely detailed such as, \\"Straight through into the skull the spearhead crunched its way demolishing the brain.\\"  12:150-152. Homer also often analogizes the action with natural settings such as, \\"The appeal aroused Aineias.  Craving battle, he charged Idomeneus... [who] steadily waited, like a mountain boar who knows his power, facing a noisy hunt in a lonely place: his backbone bristles rise; both eyes are fiery; gnashing his tusks he waits in fury to drive back the dogs and men.\\"  13:440-447.  In short, Homer's talents are not just his incredible detail towards describing and explaining the human condition or the carnage of war, but also his rich analogies comparing human situations to settings in nature.<br /><br />Homer's Iliad has been hailed as a literary jewel for the past 2900 years and there's a reason for it: it's a timeless look into the human condition as recited by a poet of immense talent.  Fitzgerald provides a good translation that isn't weighed down as those of earlier writers with your \\"thys\\", \\"thees\\", \\"shalts\\", \\"doths\\", etc. Although some his word choices can be awkward such as 'wily-nily' and such, his translation is more fluid than those of many other writers and allows the reader to appreciate the meter much better without being weighed down with either archaic or over-modern English. Although the characters in 'The Iliad' may have lived over 3000 years ago, their emotions, hopes, and dreams are still relevant to humanity today: Firtzgerald is one the best authors to bring them to life for the English reader. So enjoy this masterpiece of literature in one of the best translations available to date: your money will be well spent.pent.	2005-03-01
US	29888707	R3F9Y65TC24I1J	0195114590	553139038	The Praetorship in the Roman Republic: Volume 1: Origins to 122 BC	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Outstanding Research	Although many classical historians have focused on the Senate, the consulship or the tribunate as political posts in the Roman Republic, few have investigated the origins and development of the praetorship. Unfortunate because this office was long treated as a springboard to the consulship by Roman politicians. The position was also one of enormous influence as it involved not only judicial functions, but was a gubernatorial post to administer the provinces. Addressing these issues, Brennan has done an outstanding work in researching the evolution of this important administrative post in the Roman republican system.    Brennan studies how the praetorship evolved as purely a military post in the Early Republic to one involving judicial functions as well as the administration of the later Republic's vast domains encompassing most of Europe, North Africa, and Asia Minor. Brennan carefully sifts through historical texts and other evidence to support his conclusions as to the origins of this office, its evolution, its functions, and how it affected the republican stystem as a whole.    This is a fine scholarly work by an author who has clearly done his homework. Brennan's work is definitely a great contribution to the field and addresses some neglected areas in that still vast academic subject. I wouldn't recommend this work as an introductory text as its depth and scope would already require an advanced knowledge of Roman history. I strongly recommend this book to anyone who has more than a fleeting interest in political science, sociology, anthropology, or classical studies.	2005-03-01
US	29888707	R1KICHQPDO5XXW	0275966208	266738412	Caesar Against Rome: The Great Roman Civil War	Books	1	8	16	N	N	CAVEAT EMPTOR: An Opus of Minimal Scholarship	This book by Ramon Jimenez is limited to Caesar and his participation in the Civil War against Pompey The Great's republican forces between 49-45 B.C.  Although the book may at first appear to be informative to those who are just beginning to learn about Roman history and Caesar, don't be fooled! Ramon Jimenez has absolutely no credentials in classical studies, history, or anthropology: his background is as a civil servant in California. Mr. Jimenez didn't even begin to undertake any studies in antiquity until his later adult years and such studies amounted to nothing more than his personal pursuit of a private hobby, not a Masters or Ph.D. There's also no indication that Mr. Jimenez has any background in Ancient Greek or Latin which would be prerequisites to presenting one's self as any sort of established authority in the field of classical studies. Even disregarding his lack of academic qualifications to present any thesis or dissertation on Roman history, his lack of knowledge as to the Late Roman Republic is made plainly obvious by his cursory summaries of Roman society and politics that are nothing but amateurish and misleading oversimplifications at best. The problem with Mr. Jimenez' work is that he focuses on Julius Caesar far too narrowly because he has no competent knowledge of the society, culture, and political environment Julius Caesar lived in: his study is almost in a complete void. One cannot understand Julius Caesar without knowing much about the Roman Republic any more than one could understand Alexander The Great without knowing any significant details about Ancient Greece, Macedonia and Persia. This book is therefore fundamentally unreliable as an authority on the Roman Republic, the Civil War, or even Caesar specifically.     His broad summaries of Roman society and politics demonstrate poor academic research and ignorance of the subject matter. For example, in the first chapter of the book, he oversimplifies Sulla's motives in securing his command in Asia Minor by labeling him as a simple tyrannical autocrat. Jimenez fails to provide even a brief concise overview of the Social Wars or how its aftermath affected Sulla's politics and those of his opponents: as a result, the reader also gets a poor overview of the events and politics that influenced Caesar's later political career. The book significantly overlooks the impact of Marcus Licinius Crassus and his patronage of Caesar, on the formation of the First Triumvirate, and, how his death was essentially the single most important cataclysm to the Civil War. The rest of his text is also very general barely touching only the surface of the dynamic socio-political developments of the time. The information being so bare, one wonders why the book is so long in the first place as other more competent authors have condensed even more detail in fewer pages. These types of generalizations are rampant in this book as well as his other book, \\"Caesar Against The Celts.\\" This type of analysis shows only the author's ignorance of the broad context of the Roman Republic and his failure to grasp the significance of events and persons that influenced Caesar and ultimately led to the Civil War.    These types of incomplete summaries and false facts are rampant throughout the book and clearly indicate the author's lack of knowledge as to his subject. Mr. Jimenez' poor research is indicative of a tunnel-vision approach to only a very limited segment of Roman history that is inevitably dependent on a thourough and broad understanding of the Roman Republic specifically and antiquity in general: an understanding which Mr. Jimenez clearly lacks and results in his painfully evident demonstration of poor scholarship. I have no credentials in classical studies either and even I can see the gross inaccuracies in this work. The difference with me is that I wouldn't be so arrogant as to publish a book claiming to be authoritative when it's based only on loose knowledge I obtained on my spare time as a hobbyist. This book should be shunned as an authoritative text as to anything dealing with Rome: the only thing it's clearly authoritative on is its author's ignorance of the subject. Indeed, this book does a gross disservice to all true scholars who have committed years of schooling and dilligent work to the study of antiquity to dispel the very same misconceptions Mr. Jimenez ignorantly propagates as sound research in this poor work. Ignore this pitiful work and read Caesar's Commentaries directly or the work of qualified scholars of classics such as Gruen, Syme, Millar, or others who clearly know what they're writing about before they publish their work.	2005-03-01
US	29888707	R3A44Z34HHPKZW	1885119208	453997631	Caesar Against The Celts	Books	1	27	48	N	N	CAVEAT EMPTOR:  A Work of Poor Scholarship.	This book by Ramon Jimenez is limited to Caesar and his campaigns in Gaul which he led under an extraordinary command lasting from 58 B.C. to 50 B.C.  Although the book may at first appear to be informative about Roman history and Caesar, it contains too many serious errors and missassumptions to be anything more than a crude guide to military facts that Caesar himself more adequately and eloquently describes to the average reader already!  Ramon Jimenez has absolutely no credentials in classical studies, history, or anthropology of any sort. His background is solely as a civil servant in California. Mr. Jimenez didn't even begin to undertake any studies in antiquity until recently in which his inquiries amounted to nothing more than his personal pursuit of a non-chalant hobby.  He has neither a Master's or Ph.D. in anything remotedly related to anthropology, archeology, or classical studies.  There's also no indication that Mr. Jimenez has any background in Ancient Greek or Latin which would be prerequisites to presenting one's self as any sort of established authority in the field of classical studies.  Even disregarding his lack of academic qualifications to present any thesis, dissertation, or even lecture on Roman history, his poor knowledge as to the Late Roman Republic is made plainly obvious by his cursory summaries of Roman society and politics that are nothing but misleading oversimplifications at best. Mr. Jimenez' obvious lack of knowledge results in his work focusing on Julius Caesar far too narrowly giving the reader overly general, if not misleading, information as to the society, culture, and political environment Julius Caesar lived in.  Mr. Jimenez' study is essentially in a complete void of in terms of historical context and much of the information he does provide is misleading at best. One cannot understand Julius Caesar without knowing much about the Roman Republic and its agents any more than one could understand Alexander The Great without knowing any significant details about Ancient Greece, Macedonia, and Persia. This book is therefore fundamentally unreliable as an authority on the Roman Republic or even Caesar specifically.    A perfect example of Mr. Jimenez' poor scholarship is his explanation of human sacrifice in antiquity that he makes on page 38,  4. He recites multiple examples of ritualistic killings in Celtic culture (that are verifiable based on literary and archeological evidence) and then suggests that even Rome itself was equally barbaric in that it didn't ban human sacrifice until the 1st century B.C.: suggesting the conclusion that Rome either previously tolerated such acts or passed such a ban to prevent Romans from performing human sacrifice.  It is obvious here that Mr. Jimenez is ignorant as to the context of this ban because it had nothing to do with preventing human sacrifice by Romans nor was it an indication that Romans previously tolerated human sacrifice. The sources Mr. Jimenez relied on to make this argument could only be derived from the histories of Pliny and Plutarch as to a law that was proposed by Publius Crassus (father of Marcus Licinius Crassus, the triumvir) while Consul and approved by the Senate at the beginning of the 1st century B.C. which he put into execution as governor of Further Spain  (Pliny, HN 30.12; Plut. Quaest Rom. 83.) If Mr. Jimenez would have done some simple research, he would have found that this law applied only to Rome's Celtic province of Spain to prevent Celts of that region (Lusitanians/Portuguese in particular) from continuing their rampant practice of human sacrifice. No law was passed before that time because Rome had not yet come into extended contacts with Celtic tribes that extensively practiced human sacrifice (not all Celts practiced human sacrifice.)  Even worse is that Mr. Jimenez fails to recognize that Caesar himself in his Commentaries remarked with some perplexity and disgust as to Gallic druids stuffing victims into a wickerman to burn them alive. Mr. Jimenez then compounds his ignorance by stating, \\"[T]he heads of defeated enemies [were still]...presented to the Emperor Trajan as late as the second century [A.D.]\\" id.  Severed heads of executed tribal chieftains and their retinues after a battle don't meet the parameters of a ritualistic killing which involves clear religious ceremonies or institutions that seek to appease gods or natural forces with human victims (e.g. the Celts, Aztecs or other Meso-American civilizations.)  Roman legionaires bringing severed heads of enemies to the emperor isn't human sacrifice, it's simply an exemplary execution and the head is brought as proof of victory to the emperor or displayed to other enemies as a deterrent.  Such acts were purely political and military in purpose and had no religious significance: they simply entailed the army showing its victory and allegiance to the emperor or it carrying out a brutal but effective diplomacy in the name of Rome.  Although there are perhaps one or two identifiable incidents of actual ritualistic killings to appease the gods in the Early Roman Republic up to the Third Punic War (a span of several centuries!), they were anomalies that were not universally accepted by Roman contemporaries and that occurred in extremely desperate situations. By the time of the Late Republic, all Romans clearly considered the practice of human sacrifice as barbaric in the true sense of the word (i.e. foreign and uncivilized.) What is amusing is that, after citing all of the wrong examples as evidence of ritualistic killings in Rome, Mr. Jimenez fails to address the universally known Roman institution of gladiatorial spectacles that obviously came the closest to human sacrifice: even that however is somewhat debatable as it is a more distinctive category of blood sports which are primarily secular but have quasi-religious overtones as well but I digress and will leave it at that. In sum, as in other parts of his work, Mr. Jimenez here took pieces of information on Roman society out of context because he is plainly ignorant of the context in the first place and, therefore, not qualified to render a scholarly opinion on the subject.       Mr. Jimenez' poor understanding of Roman society and political structures is also evident when he states that freedmen couldn't vote (page 13,  3) which is unequivocally false. Unlike other civilizations of the time, Rome had very liberal policies regarding manumission and historical evidence is simply overwhelming in showing that freedmen (libertini) were given political suffrage as they were allocated among the four urban voting blocks (tribes) out of the total 35 voting blocks. The only political difference between freedmen and commoners(plebeians)was that they couldn't hold political offices or official priesthoods. How Mr. Jimenez could have come to an opposite conclusion is simply beyond my comprehension because not even a beginning student of Roman history would make such a blatant mistake.  Mr. Jimenez also makes errors as to the types of foods that existed at the time as well as the alimentary regiment for Roman legions.  He claims that the common food for Roman legions was lentils and beans on page 128,  2. Beans are typically understood as the New World crop variety that didn't come to Europe until more than 1500 years after Julius Caesar. Contrary to Mr. Jimenez' claim, the common diet for the Roman soldier consisted of lentils and corn (generally all edible cereals except for maize which also came from the Americas), not beans. If \\"beans\\" were at all included in the military diet, they were restricted to field/string beans: something which Mr. Jimenez fails to specify.  Lentils and corn were the staple rations of the Roman legions because they were highly nutritious, light to carry, and not as perishable as other foods such as string or field beans.  In these two examples, Mr. Jimenez again demonstrates his ignorance of the underlying culture, institutions, and history of ancient Rome to the detriment of the uninformed reader and historical truth.    These types of incomplete summaries and false facts are rampant throughout the book and clearly indicate the author's lack of knowledge as to his subject. Mr. Jimenez' poor research is indicative of a tunnel-vision approach to only a very limited segment of Roman history that is inevitably dependent on a thourough and broad understanding of the Roman Republic specifically and antiquity in general: an understanding that Mr. Jimenez clearly lacks and results in his painfully evident demonstration of poor scholarship. I have no credentials in classical studies either and even I can see the gross inaccuracies in this work. The difference with me is that I wouldn't be so arrogant as to publish a book claiming to be authoritative when it's based only on loose knowledge I obtained on my spare time as a hobbyist. This book should be shunned as an authoritative text as to anything dealing with Rome: the only thing it's clearly authoritative on is its author's ignorance of the subject matter. Indeed, this book does a gross disservice to all true scholars who have committed years of schooling and dilligent work to the study of antiquity to dispel the very same misconceptions Mr. Jimenez ignorantly propagates as sound research in this poor work.  Ignore this pitiful text and read Caesar's Commentaries directly or the work of qualified scholars of classics such as Gruen, Syme, Millar, or others who clearly know what they're writing about before they publish their work.	2005-03-01
US	29888707	R3RTL5X3DCM0EM	0451209044	637759864	Tribune: A Novel of Ancient Rome	Books	1	14	29	N	N	A Cheap Novela	Patrick Larkin's work on a Roman equestrian tribune wanting to set things right after witnessing the horrendous murder of several imperial envoys in Judea. As he gets closer to the truth, his duty to defend it challenges his beliefs to the core. Patrick Larkin seems to have a very hard time in making this historical thriller believable due to his plainly obvious ignorance of antiquity and, by presenting both a predictable plot and rudimentary theme.  Instead of a thriller, Larkin's work is actually closer in style to a cheap romantic novela one finds at a drug store book rack.    First of all, the theme and plot structure is an elementary and uncreative 'good vs. real bad' format that is really only suited for action films and comic books: not novels or literature.  As with comic books, the character remains good throughout the story and just becomes more than good in the end without any change worth pondering over. In short, the plot structure and theme is infantile at best as it doesn't reflect the universally present ambiguities in human motives and actions reflected in works of comparable literature such as Pressfield's 'Tides of War' or some of Ford's novels.  Although Ford can be clumsy in his arrangements such as in 'Gods and Legions', at least he knows his setting.  The book's historical setting is further eroded by Larkin's insertion of a ridiculous romantic sub-plot that cannot possibly reflect the values and characters of that period.  The ending is also quite anti-climactic in that, in addition to being completely predictable, is simply unbelievable given the background of the main character.     In terms of style, the novel fails to deliver any impression of historical legitimacy as Larkin plainly demonstrates his ignorance as to the context of his story.  The language and belief structure Larkin delivers through the main character expresses a value system that is completely inapposite to antiquity as he seems to confuse the main character's status as aRoman knight (equites) with the ethos of chivalry from the medieval period: a Christian monarch's knight and noble champion. Roman knights were hardly the romanticized notion of the medieval champion Larkin depicts in the main character as their knightly social status was determined solely by wealth. Even by the Late Roman Republic 100 years before the context of Larkin's story, their role as equestrian defenders of the state was but a fading memory; instead, Roman knights functioned primarily as tax collectors, money-lenders, merchants, and public contractors: hardly the pious champions Larkin seeks to present through his main character. Larkin superimposes a value system prevalent in the 9-16th centuries A.D. to a character who was alive in the 1st century A.D. Lots of things change in a thousand years, especially cultural and social norms. Larkin's character is presented in such a righteous manner that it would seem he's already a devout knight of the Round Table in search of the Holy Grail.  It would be as absurd for him to portray Richard The Lion Hearted as Richard Nixon. The character's values of truth, honor, and virtual saintliness are therefore completely out of place for a personnage from that period of time.    Larkin's blind attempts towards developing the main character and the setting in both Roman Judea and Syria under Tiberius are so absurd that it's laughable. They seem to have been  searched hurriedly out of general summaries taken from high school history textbooks. This flaw is also evident with how he defines the secondary characters who are so shallow and two-dimensional that their dialogues appear to be nothing more than a blurp or bubble used in a comic book. Not only does this indicate poor research and character development, it demonstrates Larkin's serious limitations as a creative writer of narrative historical fiction or any genre really. Again, these flaws make it abundantly clear that Larkin has a horribly limited understanding of the historical context in which his story takes place and that he made next to no research about antiquity in general or Roman civilization in particular: his primary reference seems to have been only The New Testament.    Save yourselves from the agony I've had to endure reading this second-class trash novel. If you like historical novels, read Gore Vidal's \\"Julian\\"; Robert Graves' \\"I, Claudius\\"; or Stephen Pressfield's \\"Tides of War\\" and \\"Gates of Fire.\\" Read Marvel Comics or some cheap romantic novela and you'll probably get more of your money's worth than from reading this laughable attempt at literature.	2005-03-01
US	29888707	R179F0DMP4NETE	0312275382	860182791	Gods and Legions: A Novel of the Roman Empire	Books	2	6	7	N	N	Dogmatic and Uncreative	Ford's second novel is on the ascension and fall of Julian the Apostate, Constantine the Great's nephew and emperor of Rome: the last pagan emperor of the Roman Empire.  Although an improvement to his previous novel \\"The Ten Thousand\\" in terms of theme, plot, and character development, the novel is but a pale comparison to \\"Julian\\" by Gore Vidal. Unfortunately, unlike Vidal's novel where Julian is presented as a tragic hero, Ford presents him as an Anti-Christ who's out to destroy Christianity and he does it badly.<br /><br />The voice in the story is that of Caesarius, Julian's friend and personal physician reflecting on dialogue and experiences with Julian.  Caesarius is a religious zealot who is distrought at Julian's conversion to paganism and his attempts at reducing the political influence of the Christian Church.  Although Caesarius being a devout Christian provides a good counterpoint to looking at Julian's paganism, it turns the narrative into an overly biased religious sermon that is tedious at best with a \\"Good vs. Ultra-Evil\\" theme, plot structure, and character development that begins to make the reader feel like he's dragging some kind of penitance.  Ford's straw-man Julian is so villified that he inadvertently turns his Caesarius into a very unsympathetic prudish and narrow-minded character sermonizing about how saintly he is and how evil the pagan world is. In the end though, despite his sermons, Caesarius turns to be nothing more than a pitiful coward and overzealous traitor at best: hardly the kind of personnage you would want as a hero in a story.<br /><br />Ford's theme of vindication in this novel is completely undermined by his own choice of plot and voice.  A third person narrative or much greater development is required for what Ford intended here.  Plot, voice, and theme have been recurrent problems in all of Ford's novels so far demonstrating his limitations as a writer of fiction. The plot runs along in a rather mechanical and predictableway and the ambitious theme chosen by Ford couldn't be filled by his poor character development or his choice of voice.  A good part of Ford's dillema is his desire for historical accuracy which comes into conflict with the theme he's trying to present.  Ford follows history in showing how Julian sought only to diminish the Christian Church's involvement in the Empire's political institutions that Constantine The Great had allowed: he didn't want the Church to continue receiving gratuities from the government or it to be part of the imperial bureaucracy in any way. Julian wanted to supplant Christianity with a variant of Mithraism and Neo-Platonism as the official state religion.  Julian never persecuted individual Christians because of their faith such as Nero or other previous emperors did which is what Ford would have needed to justify his narrator's views and actions.  Ford being unable to villify Julian enough to make him the demonic character he seeks to develop leaves the reader following the voice of an obtuse zealot who is proud of his betrayals despite his claims of personal integrity: this only means the certainty of a very anti-climactic ending.<br /><br />If you're a born-again or devout Christian who is more concerned with a divine vindication theme instead of the traditional martyrdom ones in Henryk Sienkiewicz' \\"Quo Vadis\\" or Wallace's \\"Ben Hur\\", then this poorly developed narrative might appeal to you.  If you want a narrative of the same subject handled by a talented writer who accurately reflects the events and prevailing attitudes of those times, I recommend Gore Vidal's \\"Julian\\" or reading the works of Julian himself for an entertaining read. For vastly superior historical fiction involving only pagan antiquity, I would recommend Robert Graves' 'I, Claudius', or Stephen Pressfield's 'Gates of Fire' and 'Tides of War' instead of this novel.  I don't recommend any of Ford's novels as they're all more or less plagued by similar problems.	2005-03-01
US	29888707	R36I8PW0BLAREY	0674990439	877918818	Caesar: Civil Wars (Loeb Classical Library) (English and Latin Edition)	Books	5	21	23	N	N	ALEA JACTA EST	\\"And the die is cast!\\" was the proverbial statement Caesar made as he crossed the Rubicon, thus formally declaring hostilities against the Pompeiian camp and turning the Roman Republic to its final chapter. Although there are many translations of this work available on the market, there are few publications that offer Caesar's work in its original Latin as well as with its English translation in one single text. Over the last century, Loeb publishers have been unique in providing their readers with the original text and the translated version side-by-side for every reader to view. Furthermore, these works were translated by some of the best classical scholars of the day in a fluid style that has stood the test of time. I strongly recommend Loeb's publication of Caesar's Civil War over that of other publishers: there's simply no comparison.    As for Caesar's Civil War specifically, it is one of the only texts we have whose author was a political statesman from the late republic (Cicero and Sallust being the others.) It is commonly agreed by most modern scholars that the works were dictated by Caesar and written by one or more of his subordinates during his campaigns. The style is therefore clear, succint, and unadorned. The work offers a detailed look at the final years of the Roman Republic: its politics, armies, culture, and the great conflict that would ultimately destroy it to make way for a future empire that would last over 500 years. These Commentaries cover the events that would eventually lead to the final battle of Pharsallus in which Pompey was defeated after which he fled to Egypt encountering a treacherous death as described in the 'Alexandrian Wars.'    It is also important to understand that Caesar's Commentaries were rhetorical and had a political agenda. Caesar dictated (he always liked dictating) his Commentataries on the Civil War to win political favor and secure a continuation of his political career. These bulletins won him support in the Senate and in the Forum with the people allowing him to secure his grip on Rome's politics as a benevolent dictator until the fateful Ides of March in 44 B.C.    Again, I cannot recommend this version enough as one of the best available today. As for the work itself, it is a direct account from one of the greatest military and political leaders in human history: a man whose fateful crossing of the Rubicon over 2000 years ago changed the face of the world like a collossus until this day; a man whose military startegies are still taught today in virtually every military academy. It is a priceless work that all should read at least once in their life.	2005-03-01
US	29888707	R2ALN06TTLTDIS	0679725733	111847135	Claudius the God: And His Wife Messalina	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Brilliant Historical Narrative	The second volume to Robert Grave's best known and acclaimed fictional work. A convincing portrayal of what life was like at the core of the early Roman empire. While the first novel dealt with Claudius' childhood through the reign of Caligula, the sequel starts during his own reign until his death.    Graves masterfully develops the character of Claudius as he ponders his life and impresses his thoughts on to his \\"autobiography.\\" The reader is then taken through the ambitions and palatial intrigues of his reign. Claudius reflects on the persons and events under his rule. He finds himself with a dwindling circle of friends and in the company of a devious young wife, Messalina. Claudius ponders his life with wit and humor. With this insight, Claudius is soon appreciated by the reader as having a keen intellect as opposed to being dull and slow of wit. His desire for truth and his loathing of the imperial struggle gives his story clarity and impartiality. All of the characters are well developed; their actions and motivations all come to light in the course of the story.    Along with Gore Vidal's \\"Julian\\" this is one of the greatest works in historical fiction in this genre or any genre. A must read for anyone who enjoys history or just a good story full of intrigue and suspense.	2005-03-01
US	29888707	R1BAGRXVLMUCM3	037572706X	578369457	Julian: A Novel	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Brilliant Historical Narrative	Vidal's novel is on the ascension and fall of Julian the Apostate, Constantine the Great's nephew and emperor of Rome: the last pagan emperor. A unique and powerful historical narrative depicting the clash of paganism in its decline vs. the nascent Christian religion that would inevitably change the world we live in.<br /><br />The triple narrative technique is brilliantly executed in allowing the expression of several historical norms and points of view that are not always in agreement. In the story, Julian's pseudo memoirs are interspersed with correspondence and commentaries by two of his acquaintances: a philosopher and a rhetorician. The philosopher tends to follow Neo-platonic pagan thoughts while the sophist seems more agnostic. The ascension of Christian values are objectively accounted for but are inevitably mentioned with a strong air of cynicism. Julian is shown as a true leader who chose to stand against the hypocrisy of christian thought by embracing the glorious yet fading pagan past. Nevertheless, this narrative structure gives the novel a strong sense of impartiality and legitimacy: particularly since the commentators lament and concede the fact that paganism and traditional platonic philosophy are inevitably becoming extinct modes of thought throughout the book.<br /><br />Not only does the narrative allow a strong character development, the reader is also drawn and plunged into the religious turmoil of the day. With this context well established and explored by Vidal, Julian's actions and attitudes are better understood by the reader. As with \\"I Claudius\\" by Robert Graves, the book is primarily a social and political analysis of the period with strong character development as its medium. This results in the book having only summary reviews of Julian's military exploits.<br /><br />Altogether a brilliant work as worthy of praise as Grave's \\"I Claudius.\\" This one of Vidal's best historical novels and is worth reading. Again, for those who are primarily interested in historical novels for battles or campaigns, this may not be their cup of tea: for such readers I would recommend Stephen Pressfield's novels or other similar writers.	2005-03-01
US	29888707	R2FXWY2PQOBOZA	0553381393	282597222	Tides of War	Books	5	4	5	N	Y	A Great Fictional Account of Alcibiades	Stephen Pressfield's novel covers the life and times of Alcibiades (451-404 B.C.), an Athenian pedigree who would succeed Pericles in leading Athens and its maritime allies against Sparta in the 30-year war that would be known as the Peloponnesian War.  A great novel where Pressfield's narrative style captures the reader and creates the proper mood in a way that is both easy and pleasant to read.    The end of the Second Persian War in the late 5th century B.C. left the Greek city-states as masters of their destinies as well as the Mediterranean.  Athens' building of a major navy and port under Themistocles to fight the Persians made her a dominant maritime power while its rival, Sparta, levied great influence on neighboring city-states in controlling land trade and agriculture.  It was a time of immense economic and cultural prosperity: the time of Socrates, Plato, Theucydides and the Parthenon. Despite their prosperity however, economic and political pressure soon led Athens and Sparta to clash with each forming political alliances that were detrimental to the other.  Politics during that time were very volatile with politicians or military commanders often being subjected to political attacks by rivals calling for resignations, exiles, and trials for treason.  By the time Alcibiades hit the political scene in Athens, the war had already dragged on for years and the Athenians were longing to inflict a final blow on Sparta to end the war.  A charismatic leader, Alcibiades persuaded Athens that Sparta could be defeated once a full maritime blockade had been accomplished through the conquest of Sicily and Syracuse.  Athens expanded its already enormous navy and agreed that Alcibiades should lead the expedition. Once on his way to Sicily, Alcibiades was declared a traitor by his political enemies and so he defected to Sparta.  Throughout the war, Alcibiades continued to defect betewen both city-states and even tried to arrange a side deal with Greece's most odious enemy, Persia.  Undoubtedly the wyliest politician of Western history other than perhaps Talleyrand, Alcibiades continued to offer his political and military talents to whoever would give him credence.  He was killed 404 B.C. by Athenian assassins as a fugitive hiding in Thrace.      In this book, the narratives are from an Athenian lawyer and a prisoner awaiting execution.  The lawyer happened to come upon one of Alcibiades's assassins while he was busy defending Socrates.  Knowing the trial is fixed and that his fate sealed, the assassin recites his experiences with Alcibiades as a personal friend to the inquisitive lawyer.  The book's description of the disastrous siege of Syracuse is perhaps the best part.  The narrative tries to make Alcibiades a tragic hero which, I must admit, is difficult given his treasonous tendencies.  To overcome this dillema, Pressfield presents Alcibiades as the embodiment of the Greek notion of 'Arete' or the striving for excellence.  Pressfield shows how a man striving for excellence in actions and purpose is frustrated by the corrupt and decadent politics of his period.  I believe that it is this theme arrangement that has a lot of readers turned off by this book as they may have a hard time grasping its message through the embodiment of a scoundrel such as Alcibiades.  Pressfield overcomes this problem with good character development and a double narrative technique in which one legitimizes the other.  He focuses a lot on describing what lies behind the characters' motivations and so gives legitimacy to their actions to which the reader can relate.  Many have also unfairly compared this work to \\"Gates of Fire\\" but the plots and themes of each story are vastly different:  they are the same only so far as they take place in 5th century B.C. Greece. \\"Tides of War\\" covers very different events and more characters over a greater time period. The objectives of the characters in \\"Tides of War\\" are always are multi-faceted and ever-changing.\\"Gates of Fire\\" covers a single battle and there's no political ambiguity as to who is good and who is bad.  In \\"Tides of War\\", the story is much more focused on political events than just the characters: the parties are also all equally unscrupulous as to their motives and methods.  Comparing the two works is no different than comparing a novel on the politics of the Civil War to one covering the battle for The Alamo: one is not a proper basis of comparison for the other.  In sum this book's theme and plot is much more complex than the 'Alamo' plot and theme in \\"Gates of Fire.\\"     Overall, a great book. The reader is immediately immersed into the complex politics and events of the Peloponnesian war through a narrative style that is well balanced between historical and cultural accuracy as well as its need to appeal to the modern reader.  Pressfield has truly revived the form of the classical epic with this work: I strongly recommend it along with his \\"Gates of Fire.\\"	2005-03-01
US	29888707	R2MPHLI2N1VYCO	0520201531	629797028	The Last Generation of the Roman Republic	Books	5	32	33	N	N	A Clarifying Retrospective  Of  The Late Republic	The Roman Republic was strangely a very dynamic as well as rigid institution in which the causes of its demise have baffled scholars until the present day.  Erich S. Gruen's scholarly work is one of the most concise studies on the politics and society of the Late Roman Republic. Throughout the book, Gruen exhaustively reviews the socio-political spectrum of Rome from Marius to Caesar and points to certain issues that collectively led it to its downfall. The book is also a challenge to previous works, particulary Syme's, claiming that the Romans clearly knew that the Civil War was coming.    Having no written charter or constitution to guide it, the Roman Republic relied on tradition and ad hoc enactments as precedent.  Unlike the democracies of today, Roman suffrage was collectively manifested by two voting assemblies representing either 35 geographical classes (tribes) or votes by defined classes organized on the basis of wealth (i.e. the less money your class had, the less its vote counted.) Each assembly voted on certain ranges of legislation and were further segregated by a caste structure distinguishing commoners and the elite patrician nobility whose family clans originated from the earliest days of the Republic or the Monarchy.  When the time to vote did come, suffrage was limited to the physical confines of Rome in the Forum or the Campus Martius: if you were poor and lived over 50 miles away from Rome, you probably voted little.       This system worked well in Rome for so long because, until about 90 B.C., the Roman citizenry was limited to those who lived in Rome and its colonies in Italy and overseas: other cities in Italy were treated merely as allies (socii) who had limited privileges in Roman society and no voting rights. The Roman aristocratic oligarchy thus had few problems in manipulating the needs and sentiments of these voting blocks.  Those dynamics changed after Rome was forced to enfranchise all of Italy to settle a bitter insurrection by itsItalian allies around 90 B.C.  This resulted in a sudden surge in the size and power of the traditional voting blocks which, despite their attempts to organize them to their advantage, began eroding the traditional allegiances and methods of Rome's ruling families.  The changing political dynamics gave populists and demagogues such as Clodius and Caesar much greater flexibility in projecting mass popular will on given agendas. Although corruption, plebicites, political trials, and outright violence to pass legislation was not new to Romans, these changes along with more subtle ones made them evermore common occurrences near the end of the Republic and, to a great degree, made the leadership of charismatic populists like Caesar to many an appealing solution to the woes of a failing republican system.    Through statistical analysis and references to classical texts, Gruen shows that Rome's elite seemed quite unaware of the big picture that Syme claims was so evident and, that these major changes were seen more as business as usual.  Gruen shows how all of the important political offices such as the Consulship continued to be filled by either plebeian nobles or patricians as usual and that there were no major changes or concessions made during that time.  By accurately and concisely reviewing the composition of magistracies, senatorial rolls, and tribunes from the time of Sulla to the Civil War, Gruen offers a compelling insight as to how the optimate and patrician oligarchy was continuing to do business as usual until the Republic's final years. Gruen covers every aspect of Roman politics involving each class composing Roman society from patricians to plebeans, foreigners, and slaves. He studies all conceivable social institutions, how they were used by such classes and what their implications were in the broad context.    As with any study of this period, Gruen covers much detail on the development of the First Triumvirate and its principal actors: Crassus, Pompey,and Caesar. He shows how each continued their political aims in methods that were a common staple to Roman republican politics such as strong-arming, bribery, nepotism, and patronage.  Gruen's argument focuses on how the consequences of enfranchising all of Italy into the Roman citizenry after the Social Wars may have overextended the traditional stability of the nobilitas' oligarchy and yet not altered their perception of the new political reality. Gruen suggests that these new political dynamics may have fragmented traditional family alliances and their systems of rival clientelae to such a degree that it made their effective administration of the Republic impossible. Gruen also doesn't ignore the adverse effects of Rome failing to address the dangers of its professional legions whose allegiances were only to their commanders and not its political institutions.    Altogether a brilliant scholarly work that is indispensible to the study of this most important period of not only Roman History, but of our present history as well. In addition Gruen's work, Fergus Millar's \\"The Crowd in Rome in the Late Republic\\" parallels the dilligent research and analysis on this subject with a stronger sociological emphasis on the location of the Forum as a political institution.  This book is a study in erudition and I wouldn't recommend it as an introductory text on Roman history as its depth and scope would already require some advanced knowledge of the subject. I would strongly recommend both books to anyone who has more than a fleeting interest on this subject.	2005-02-28
US	29888707	R1GYY8KANB1VWZ	0472108921	316287985	The Crowd in Rome in the Late Republic (Jerome Lectures)	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Mob Politics of the Late Republic	The Roman Republic was strangely a very dynamic as well as rigid institution in which the causes of its demise have baffled scholars until the present day. Fergus Millar's scholarly work is one of the most concise studies on the politics and society of the Late Roman Republic. His published lectures provide a unique insight into the mechanics of popular politics in the Late Republic.  Millar demonstrates how Roman suffrage was restricted to the physical location of the Forum and, how this affected the dynamics of Rome's political and legal institutions from the time of the Social Wars until the Civil War.    Having no written charter or constitution to guide it, the Roman Republic relied on tradition and ad hoc enactments as precedent.  Unlike the democracies of today, Roman suffrage was collectively manifested by two voting assemblies representing either 35 geographical classes (tribes) or individual votes valued upon wealth (i.e. the less money you had, the less your vote counted.) Each assembly voted on certain ranges of legislation and were further segregated between commoners and the elite patrician nobility whose family clans originated from the earliest days of the Republic.  When the time to vote did come, suffrage was limited to the physical confines of Rome in the Forum or the Campus Martius: if you were poor and lived over 50 miles away from Rome, you probably voted little.       This system worked well in Rome for so long because, until about 90 B.C., the Roman citizenry was limited to those who lived in Rome and its colonies in Italy and overseas: other cities in Italy were treated merely as allies (socii) who had limited privileges in Roman society and no voting rights. The Roman aristocratic oligarchy thus had few problems in manipulating the needs and sentiments of these voting blocks.  Those dynamics changed after Rome was forced to enfranchise all of Italy to settle a bitter insurrection by its Italian allies around 90 B.C.  This resulted in a sudden surge in the size and power of the traditional voting blocks which, despite their attempts to organize them to their advantage, began eroding the traditional allegiances and methods of Rome's ruling families.  The changing political dynamics gave populists and demagogues such as Clodius and Caesar much greater flexibility in projecting mass popular will on given agendas. Although corruption, plebicites, political trials, and outright violence to pass legislation was not new to Romans, these changes along with more subtle ones made them evermore common occurrences near the end of the Republic and, to a great degree, made the leadership of charismatic populists like Caesar to many an appealing solution to the woes of a failing republican system.    Millar suggests that the traditional assemblies and their physical restriction to Rome as a location to express popular will became a cause of intense political friction after the Social Wars and the enfranchisement of Italy. With previously untapped voting blocks spread out all over Italy, demagoguery became a norm to by-pass the de facto ruling power of the Senate. Specifically, Millar shows how laws such as the enfranchisement of Italy, the reinstatement of the tribunes after 70 B.C., and the ever more frequent granting of extraordinary commands through the tribunate instead of the Senate, eroded the legitimacy of the Senate and voting assemblies as Rome's traditional political institutions; turning the Forum into a scene of incessant plebicites led by charismatic leaders. These motivations increased the frequency of political trials and the use of hired mobs to control the forum. The inevitable result was the development of violent factionalism as a means to control the forum to pass legislation. Legislation now being passed without the Senate's traditional role of revision and approval, people's reliance on single charismatic leaders like Caesar to hold sway thus became the norm. Millar concludes that these are thepolitical dynamics that rendered the Senate obsolete as a governing body and paved the way for the Civil War and ultimately the Principate.    As with Gruen in \\"The Last Generation of the Roman Republic\\", Millar is very detailed in supporting his arguments; referring not only to Cicero's letters and trials but various other classical and modern sources. Along with Ward's \\"Marcus Crasssus and The Late Roman Republic\\", this book does a great service to the study of the Late Roman Republic. There are variant opinions as to what factors were primarily responsible for the collapse of the Roman Republic and Millar is one of leading scholars in this field along with Erich Gruen.  Millar offers a unique insight on the impact of the forum's physical location, how that affected Rome's political institutions and, how this interaction with socio-political events after the Social War led to the desintegration of the Roman Republic.  I wouldn't recommend this work as an introductory text on Roman history as its depth and scope would already require at least some basic knowledge of Roman history and society. This is, however, a great book for anyone who is seriously interested in Roman history, political science, and/or sociology.  I strongly recommend it.	2005-02-28
US	29888707	R5N0IY3RCWLDI	0300102984	646100574	Livia: First Lady of Imperial Rome	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Rome's First Imperial Matron	The book offers a unique insight into the life of Rome's first imperial matron, Livia. Reviewing narrative and archeological evidence, Anthony Barret succeeds in showing how Livia was perceived by her contemporaries in light of Augustus' new imperial institutions. Because there's so little information on who Livia really was as a person, Mr. Barret's analysis starts becoming rather speculative when it comes to Livia's private dispositions. The book is thus more of a review of Livia's persona as opposed to her actual beliefs and behavior behind closed doors. At the very least, he succeeds in dispelling many of the anecdotal stories of her as a ambitious master schemer and regicite. These negative qualities are mostly the product of Tacitus' biased accounts which were so wonderfully crafted into Robert Graves' \\"I, Claudius\\" books. At the very least, one gets a good picture of the political and social environment Livia found herself in when she married Augustus and how it affected her public image. The book is easy to read for the casual reader but detailed enough for the scholar.  I strongly recommend this work.	2005-02-28
US	29888707	R1ZH30JP2TZL6D	0826202160	549407162	Marcus Crassus and the Late Roman Republic	Books	5	19	19	N	Y	Light Is Shed On The Obscured Triumvir	Allen M. Ward's book is on the life and political impact of Marcus Licinius Crassus during the Late Republic. Crassus was a venerated member of the Roman nobilitas who was always a behind-the-scenes power broker in Rome and never really in agreement with his fellow patricians. He had a distinguished place in having served the consulship twice and as Censor once over the course of his life: the highest offices of state a Roman could attain. Modest and friendly yet wealthy and ambitious, he chose to remain mostly in the civil sphere as a court advocate instead of pursuing commands abroad: his service under Sulla, his command against Spartacus' slave revolt, and his Parthian expedition were the limits of his military posts.  His father and older brother had perished under Marius' sanguinous siege and massacre of Rome itself and he became a strong ally of Sulla from whom he profited immensely. Sulla's proscriptions gave him much real estate and he had ties with the equestrian class in state contracts for tax farming: his father had also left him interests in Spain where he had much clientelae and several mines.<br /><br />Distancing himself from the conservative retrenchment of Sulla's regime early on, Crassus came to follow more moderate positions by promoting poor patricians and wealthy plebeians to political offices by lending them money and, at the opportune time, asking them for political favors instead of interest as payment. Crassus following this traditional Roman custom of not levying interest with an ability to call the debt in full whenever he pleased was an extremely effective bargaining chip in getting the political results he wanted. Censors could strike someone out of political office if they were judged to be insolvent by a court enforcing a debt and a dependant political upstart would be willing to do anything to avoid the overwhelming pecuniary demands of such an influential a patron to the likes of Crassus.  The debt-burdened Caesar realized that withhis own creditors when Crassus bailed him out of a huge debt of 800 talents/19,200,000 sesterces just prior to the commencement of his Spanish governorship: a post of which Crassus probably needed help as his interests in Spain were most likely in jeopardy to Pompey's recent political encroachments there to primarily settle veterans and expand his clientelae.  Senatorial power plays such as the latter often made Crassus a bitter enemy of Pompey The Great and Cicero. Crassus therefore saw much potential in Caesar to keep them in check.<br /><br />Through incessant political machinations, Crassus and Caesar were the main force behind the formation of the First Triumvirate with a deflated Pompey at Luca in 56 B.C. Crassus' political zenith came soon after in 53 B.C. when he was campaigning in Parthia serving the proconsulship in the East he had won after very dirty consular elections involving bribery, political trials, hired mobs, and violence. Despite his strong political position in Rome, his poor knowledge of the immense Parthian empire and his overconfidence in his ten legions would cost him dearly.  Cavalry was what he needed most to protect the flanks of such a large infantry and yet he was accompanied only by a slim auxilliary cavalry contingent of 4000 Gauls on loan from Caesar along with a small contingent of treacherous Nabatean horse/camel men on loan from Pompey.  He and his eldest son perished in the parched valleys and hills near Cahrrae in modern western Iraq/eastern Syria after he and his army were enveloped by Parthian heavy cavalry and horse archers.  The archers had a limitless supply of arrows from nearby camel caravans and simply turned in circles around the legions while decimating their ranks. More than half of his army would be dead or captured while the rest would withdraw in tatters to the sole remaining leadership of Cassius Longinus, the future tyranicide, who had stayed behind in Syria.<br /><br />The death of Crassus death created a major political vacuum in Rome with the untying of his clientelae and political dependants such as senators, equestrians, tribunes, etc.  Unable to wield the influential legacy of his father, the young Marcus Crassus followed Caesar instead as with many others who would mostly go either to Caesar or Pompey: polarizing the Pompeiian and Caesarian factions against each other leading to the Civil War and the end of the Republic.  A great stigma was therefore attached to Crassus' memory and even Roman policy in the East.  Fearing a devastating loss to the likes of Crassus, all emperors until Trajan mostly limited their diplomacy in the East in small commitments to none at all. Augustus himself was happy just to bring the old captured standards received from Parthia as a diplomatic gesture back to Rome.<br /><br />By meticulously retracing classical references with a strong emphasis on Plutarch as well as Cicero's letters and trials, Ward reveals the biases and how they have been propagated by even modern scholars. He also adds new facts and paradigms as to Crassus in the political sphere.  Ward demonstrates Crassus was no different in his methods than most of his noble and patrician contemporaries seeking public office and overseas appointments.  Overall, Ward reviews the character and motives of one of Rome's wealthiest and most influential politicians by following the ups and downs of his political career.  The book offers keen insight as to how Crassus used his wealth and political influence to establish alliances and so leverage his interests against those of his political opponents.  Finally, Ward also criticizes the conclusions of previous writers such as Munzer and Syme identifying Publius as the younger son and Marcus as the older: he is of the contrary opinion and his supporting arguments are far more cogent than those of Syme or Munzer.<br /><br />An erroneous presumption in this work and many others referring to Crassus is that he was a plebeian when historical evidence is conclusive in showing that he was a patrician.  The conclusive evidence that Crassus was a patrician can be derived by his service as consul with Pompey The Great in 70 and 55 B.C. as well as Pompey's third consulship with Metellus Scipio.  The laws of the consulship required that one candidate be a patrician and another a plebeian and nothing indicates that any exceptions were ever made to that rule.  Patrician lineage had to originate from the earliest days of Rome such as with Caesar claiming that the Iuli clan originated from Aeneas' son Iulius.  Pompey was from Picenum which was a comparatively new region to have received the Latin rights granted by Rome; also, his father served as a tribune.  The Licinii clan was an Etruscan one which originated as a patrician clan during the earliest days of Rome when it was a monarchy.  Since only plebeians could serve as tribunes, Pompey was certainly one as well.  In comparison, there is no evidence that any members of Crassus' immediate family ever served in the tribunate. As for Pompey's third consulship in 52 B.C., it was shared with Metellus Scipio who as unquestionably a patrician meaning that Pompey had to be of plebeian rank.  All of the facts indicate that Crassus was a patrician and not a plebeian contrary to Ward's conclusion and popular opinion.<br /><br />In conclusion, there being perhaps only three concise studies of this most intriguing of Roman statesmen two of which are biased, this is one of those three books and is a must have for anyone who is interested in Crassus specifically or the Late Republic in general. I wouldn't recommend this work as an introductory text on Roman history as its depth and scope would already require some basic knowledge of the subject. It is indispensable to any one who wants to advance their knowledge on the politics of the Late Roman Republic.	2005-02-28
US	29888707	R12Q0XIYVQID3Y	156324599X	318175385	Spartacus (North Castle Books)	Books	1	13	28	N	N	Communist Revisionism	Compared to other authors of classical historical fiction such as Graves, Pressfield, or Breem, Howard Fast seeks to generalize certain historical events to emphasize a communist political theme as opposed to just adding life to the historical characters or events in their proper context.  As a result, the historical background and the characters come out as little more than marionettes to parade Fast's political beliefs of Marxist historicism.  His view of how the proletariat is in a perpetual historical struggle with the bourgeoisie to control the means of production.  The only reason Fast chose the Servile War for his story is because Marx had called Spartacus the first champion of the proletariat.  Readers looking for historical insight or a believable historical narrative will therefore probably be very disappointed when reading this book.<br /><br />Unlike the other authors mentioned above, Fast was never a historian and was not interested in objective historical fact or anthropology.  Fast was a fervent communist who believed in Marx's theory of historical determinism and interpreted historical events under that model: that the history of humanity and all its conflicts demonstrates only a perpetual struggle between the working class (i.e. slaves) and those who control the means of production (i.e. the Romans.)  Fast's depiction of Rome and Roman culture is therefore presented with the industrialist and socialist values and beliefs prevalent in the 19th-20th centuries as opposed to those of antiquity's pagan agrarian societies such as Greece or Rome.  In addition to using his political bias to develop the plot, Fast further dilutes the history of his narrative with his outright ignorance of the subject matter he is writing on.  Homosexuality or even pedophelia were not accepted values in the Late Roman Republic nor did the Romans practice cannibalism.  Spartacus' Slave Revolt was not a crusade of universal emancipation but instead an attempt to flee Italy en masse.  His army's cohesion was tentative at best and his mostly Celtic retinue was interested in raping and plundering more than anything else.  It is also more likely than not that Spartacus' army, had it escaped Italy, would have continued to be a marauding army of mercenaries offering its services to the highest bidder whether it were to a Celtic chieftain or the Cilesian pirates: looting and raping while selling captives as slaves as was customary.  Fast's depiction of Spartacus having been a poor son of Thracian slaves is also gross poetic license.  Spartacus was called 'Thracian' because of his gladiatorial role as a Thracian fighter and he was instead most probably an enslaved auxilliary or mercenary from Greece who got embroiled in Rome's civil wars and fell out of favor with its leaders such as Sulla or Marius.  The depiction of Crassus as a factory-owning arch-conservative elitist with dictatorial ambitions is equally absurd and completely at odds with the historical character.  Lastly, the character of Gracchus is nothing more than a ficitional composite of the Gracchi brothers who were populist agitators over 50 years before the context of this story.  If anything, the real Crassus was a lot more like the character of Gracchus portrayed in Fast's book than that of Fast's Crassus who comes out more as Sulla or Caesar.<br /><br />Historically, this book is nothing more than an absurd depiction of the society, events, and peoples of the Late Roman Republic.  Fast deserves a failing grade as a writer of historical fiction compared to Graves or other comparable writers.  This book is essentially nothing more than Marx's 'Communist Manifesto' disguised as historical fiction.  Quite frankly, for this type of socialist/communist fiction, one is better off reading Zola as the ideologies and values are at least put into their proper historical context.	2004-03-16
