US	29956171	R3V0WIYUY6KTPY	0375713182	431516818	Selected Essays	Books	5	51	53	N	N	Indispensable	I happened to pick this book up in a store because I had read one novel of Berger's, Pig Earth, which I thought was very good.  I knew he was an art critic, but I never had any particular urge to read art criticism; I didn't think visual art needed a lot of explaining.  Just reading the three page essay on Jackson Pollock convinced me that, at least regarding the type of criticism that Berger writes, I was wrong.  In a few sentences, he seems to capture the essence of what an artist has accomplished (or is trying to accomplish) in his or her work, and makes the work more vivid and meaningful than it was before.  Here is clear proof that finding words for one's experience of a work of art doesn't devalue it but makes it richer. <br /> <br />One of the things that makes these essays so gripping is that Berger is interested in something that seems to have fallen out of fashion in criticism: using art to identify the predicament of a culture. I remember, even before I picked up Pig Earth, being worried by the fact that Berger is a lifelong Marxist.  But there is nothing doctrinaire or repetitive about his explanations of phenomenon; he is a free intellect, and I would argue that just because Marx's solutions have been widely discounted does not necessarily mean that his diagnoses are also invalid.  In any case, Berger's priorities are always first exploring his subject, not imposing an orthodox framework on them. <br /> <br />The book, also, is not just about art.  Berger is a real man of letters; his essays range over every art form and subject, and in the space of a few pages he can marshall support for his points from a novelist, painter, poet, photographer, and historian.  He is never pretentious, because his primary objective is always communicating his argument with urgency.  I bought this essay on the strength of the Pollock essay alone, and I've discovered so many more that I could read again and again; this is really one of my treasured books (a good measure ofwhich is the frequency with which it comes into the bathroom with me). <br /> <br />The tight construction of Berger's essays makes it hard to quote a section and have it make sense as an argument, but here are a few samples: \\"Nobody who has not painted himself can fully appreciate what lies behind Matisse's mastery of colour.  it is comparitively easy to achieve a certain unity in a picture either by allowing one colour to dominate or by muting all the colours.  Matisse did neither.  He clashed his colours together like cymbals and the effect was like a lullaby.\\" <br /> <br />Or, in the essay on our changing relationship with animals: \\"Public zoos came into existence at the beginning of the period which was the see the disappearance of animals from daily life.  The zoo to which people go to meet animals, to observe them, to see them, is, in fact, a monument to the impossibility of such encounters.  Modern zoos are an epitaph to a relationship which was as old as man.\\"  The essay on animals had a passage on nearly every page which made me want to put the book down and think for a few minutes, and I hope I'm not doing it a disservice by quoting a fragment.  Buy the book and read it all; there are few other collections that contain such a breadth of knowledge and insight.  Seriously, this is value for money.	2004-10-29
US	29956171	R2YDKUA22ZDPP4	0071446435	420002638	Crimes Against Logic: Exposing the Bogus Arguments of Politicians, Priests, Journalists, and Other Serial Offenders	Books	4	780	807	N	N	Read it and give it to everyone you know	This book deserves the widest possible exposure in America, especially so close to the election, because it an excellent primer on how to guard yourself against the faulty reasoning that governs so much modern political discourse - and avoid adopting it yourself.  I first heard about the book because one of its points was mentioned in an essay.  The point was basically that just because someone has a motive to hold a certain position doesn't necessarily mean that the position is false.  This seemed pretty obvious, but as I turned to the media I was amazed at how often politicians use this method, and how easily I had accepted their claims if they lined up with my political preferences.      Any damaging report against either side, for example, would frequently be denounced as a \\"partisan\\" attack, with occasional documentation of how the person who presented the report was tied to one party or another, as if this were the issue at hand.  No attempt was made to address whether the report was true or not, the assumption being that exposing a bias - a motive for the potentially false information - was conclusive evidence.    Some of the things Whyte discussed in the book - for example, sample bias in statistics - are going to be familiar to many people, but just as frequently he comes up with something that all of us have probably used in an argument.  For example, in the chapter \\"begging the question,\\" he quotes a common pro-choice argument: \\"If you believe abortion is wrong, that's fine, don't abort your pregnancies.  But show tolerance toward others who don't share your beliefs.\\"    He points out that this ignores that actual position of anti-abortionists, that abortion is murder, morally equivalent to killing a live human being.  The argument for tolerance takes for granted that the fetus is not really a person, and that therefore it should be possible for everyone to only be concerned with their own behavior.  But as Whyte points out, anyone that actually wishes toconfront the issue will have to address the question of whether the fetus is a human being.  So many pleas for tolerance between certain feuding religions, he points out, have the same problem, because they skirt the genuine issue that is giving rise to the outrage - that, by the tenets of some religions, only one of them can be true.    I suspect Whyte's positions on religion will offend the most readers.  He has no sympathy for familiar arguments about the un-knowable nature of god, or that the intricacy of life on earth necessarily implies a god (already taken apart by Hume in the Dialogues Concerning Natural Religion); he also presents a simple and conclusive refutation of Pascal's gambit that I've never come across before.  Luckily, he does not exhibit the most annoying characteristic of many rationalists, smugness; instead, he seems to have a deep desire to get at truth, which I think we are more in need of today than any amount of vague piety.    The book will only take a couple of days to read, and is very clearly written.  I remember an article that dealt with similar material that I read in high school, forgotten now because it ended up as an exercise in memorizing the Latin names of various fallacies.  Whyte is conscientious about calling things by their common names.  Buy the book, give it to your friends, and try to get at the bottom of why you believe what you do (and whether you still should).	2004-10-28
US	29956171	R3BSZOBMMID91C	0374177376	691123481	The Irresponsible Self: On Laughter and the Novel	Books	4	36	37	N	N	One part stimulating, one part predictable	There are a few problems with The Irresponsible Self, but the main one is that it so clearly reflects its origins in journalism.  None of the essays have been crafted with a full length work in mind, so Wood frequently repeats himself and often has to throw in something that is clearly a later addition to make the essay fit in with the putative theme of this work, which is a certain kind of comic novel.  It is clear that this umbrella of \\"laughter and the novel\\" is an afterthought, because many of the books Wood writes about - Anna Karenina jumps out, so does Coetzee's Disgrace - won't inspire the slightest grin, as great or good as they are. <br /> <br />Wood repeats himself in two ways: the obvious one involves just telling the same anecdote repeatedly, in the manner of a newspaper columnist who is not sure to have the same audience from one week to the next.  From the essays in The Broken Estate to this book I think I have read the same couple of anecdotes about Chekhov five times.  Not a big deal, but sort of annoying to come across in a book one hopes would be more carefully edited.  The second sort of repetition is harder to avoid: in his first book, Wood was so exciting because he brought a set of critical standards that were not only sensible but seemed to have been disappearing from a great deal of reviews.  He asked basic questions like Would the character really think this way? - What is the point of this fancy language? - Is the author being true to the world he or she has created or just playing games? - and put his finger on things that had probably been bothering people who wondered why so many of the books that critics encouraged them to read were finally so unsatisfying. <br /> <br />The problem is that Wood argued for certain standards so cogently and consistently that it's easy to know what he's going to say about many books before reading the reviews.  Anyone that has read the essay on Thomas Pynchon will pretty much know what Wood is going to say about Zadie Smith and Rushdie.  Anyone who's read the essay on Updike from the last book is going to know what Wood is going to say about Updike - again - in this book.  He's right, I think, but I wish that he might have expanded his critical range a little more over the period, or not bothered to re-publish essays where he knew he was repeating himself. <br /> <br />But there are still marvels here.  Wood seems to be a voracious discoverer, from Knut Hamsun in the last book to Verga and Hrabal in this book (Svevo might be a discovery to many people as well, and such a worthwhile one).  These essays may not stand up to re-reading, like truly great criticism (see Randall Jarrell), but they will certainly lead you to books that will.  The essay I loved the most, strangely, is the one that shows that Wood's talents may have moved in the direction of fiction.  The essay on V.S. Naipaul's relationship with his father is pretty much just a summary of a book of letters, but it's also an incredibly subtle and moving character study that shows how fully Wood has entered into their relationship.  He doesn't pull out his usual set of critical tools, but inhabits the book like a writer entering into the minds of his characters. <br /> <br />Finally, for someone writing about comic novels, Wood has the singular disadvantage of not being funny at all.  The dry way he describes even the best jokes succeeds in making them boring.  The only time I laughed in this book on laughter is when Wood quoted parts of the novels.  But even with all of these problems, Wood makes me want to run out and read a book immediately more than any other critic.  And unlike the compulsive enthusiasms of most newspaper reviewers, Wood's subjects justify his praise, and that is reason enough to read any book.	2004-09-27
US	29956171	RJ9M5O3GDBVIT	0881841471	23356391	Lookout Cartridge	Books	3	28	33	N	N	Hard even on sympathetic readers	I bought this book with every intention of liking it.  McElroy has a devoted coterie of fans who consider him a genius, and this book is supposed to be one of his best, as well as his most readable.  Apparently several people think it's the best American novel of the 70s.  So I went into it with a fair amount of determination, anticipating the ego-boosting pleasure that comes with discovering the value of any talent that has been vastly underrated by most readers.<br /><br />Well, after putting this book down several times and forcing myself to read it for page after page, I'm afraid I have to join the people who don't much understand what McElroy is trying to do, and get no pleasure from reading him.  He isn't a \\"difficult\\" writer in the sense that Joyce, Gaddis, or Pynchon are difficult: the surface of his prose is fairly clear, and the occasional standout sentence shows that McElroy clearly has some sort of literary talent.<br /><br />The difficultly lies in knowing where in the world the book is going.  The plot hinges around a tedious documentary art film that the narrator has made with a few friends (and, like the other reviewer, I am baffled by who would make or fund such a movie) and its destruction by a shadowy party.  Like in Pynchon, various connections start forming, and the reader sees the outlines of a massive conspiracy the whole of which is impossible to grasp at once.<br /><br />There are several differences, though.  Pynchon is funny, and even while you're confused about the situation (which is rarely totally illuminated) you're laughing from scene to scene.  Here everything is dry as dust, and the narrator is as featureless as a camera.  Impossible scenes take place (a man runs impales himself on a car antenna, apparently by accident) and are quickly dropped - things are vivid without being truly interesting, and are soon forgotten since they aren't mentioned for hundreds of pages.  The narrator's paranoia doesn't particularly concern me, or seemparticularly convincing, because I don't care about him or his world - and really don't believe in the existence of either, since they're both so obviously constructed by the writer.<br /><br />In any book like this, one has to admit the possibility that one's just missing something, and that a closer reading will reveal the book's quality and cohesion.  I have my doubts, though: any book that doesn't offer a single character worthy of memory, or even the slim consolation of an entertaining scene, is likely to continue to gather dust.	2004-09-22
US	29956171	R1FL60WG5LE7WR	1565848748	701269570	Hatchet Jobs: Writings on Contemporary Fiction	Books	2	56	62	N	N	A waste of time	I remember the moment when I decided that Dale Peck didn't deserve my attention.  At the end of a review of a Julian Barnes novel, he said that modern British writing was awful, and then spent a single paragraph naming various writers and insulting them.  Ian McEwan's novels stink like old fish, etc.  He didn't bother explaining to the reader why he thought this was so: he just made a list and said, these people are bad. <br /> <br />And in review after review, this is his favorite way of working.  With the exception of his review of Rick Moody's The Black Veil, which is a legitimate dismantling of a bad book, Peck almost never goes into detail as to why a book isn't worth reading.  He just throws around insults.  There's nothing wrong with writing a vicious review, but back it up: quote examples, explain why the book is badly written, poorly constructed, unrealistic, anything.  A responsible critic like James Wood takes the trouble to do this. <br /> <br />But all we get from Peck are strings of denunciations: \\"All I'm suggesting is that these writers (and their editors) see themselves as the heirs to a bankrupt tradition. A tradition that began with the diarrheic flow of words that is Ulysses; continued on through the incomprehensible ramblings of late Faulkner and the sterile inventions of Nabokov; and then burst into full, foul life in the ridiculous dithering of Barth and Hawkes and Gaddis, and the reductive cardboard constructions of Barthelme, and the word-by-word wasting of a talent as formidable as Pynchon's; and finally broke apart like a cracked sidewalk beneath the weight of the stupid--just plain stupid--tomes of DeLillo.\\" <br /> <br />If you agree with Peck, then this isn't really illuminating; but if you don't - and think that, let's say, plenty of Barth is not \\"ridiculous dithering\\" - then this is useless to you, because Peck doesn't bother defending his claims.  That these writers are awful strikes him as self-evident; all he needs to do is say it,and maybe with a writerly flourish, like the bit about a sidewalk cracking under the weight of someone's stupidity. <br /> <br />But clearly, since these writers are not already forgotten, their worthlessness is not self-evident.  And if you want to take them apart you have to do it patiently, using analysis instead of playground taunts.  BR Myers, for example, also wrote an article that was a rant against the state of modern writing, and went after both Moody and DeLillo, but he took the time to quote sections of prose, and slowly built up his case.  It was clear that he had read their books carefully.  One wouldn't even have to read the books in question to write some of Peck's reviews: just say \\"incomprehensible ramblings\\" and call it a day. <br /> <br />Peck delivers these insults with a great deal of passion, and appears to want to set himself up as some sort of conscience of literature, calling for a return to the authentic.  But it's unclear just what he wants, especially when he produces lines like this: \\"But only after a work of literature has accepted its own failure--has, as it were, elegized its stillborn self--can it begin the complex series of contextual manipulations by which meaning is created and we locate ourselves as surely as the ancient navigators fixed their positions between stars.\\" <br /> <br />Ah yes, that complex series of manipulations.  I for one, unlike the ancient navigators, am having trouble locating myself in that sentence, but Peck would probably say that I am merely an idiot.  He then goes on to say \\"Contemporary novels have either counterfeited reality or forfeited it. In their stead we need a new materialism.\\"  This is his positive program.  Great: come on writers, get on that!  Start working on that new materialism. <br /> <br />I don't think Peck is dishonest; he seems to mean these things that he says.  He is merely lazy, and won't bother to tell us why he thinks so - and, more importantly, why we should think so too.  Don't waste your time on him.	2004-09-08
US	29956171	R2KM0E70O92XQO	0140183884	652475340	The Man Who Was Thursday: A Nightmare (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	3	14	30	N	N	As entertaining as thinly veiled Christian allegory gets	When I was in middle school, I started reading C.S. Lewis's Chronicles of Narnia.  Somewhere during the end of the second book, though, I got the strange feeling that the book had gone haywire.  This is the part where Aslan, the noble lion, dies and then is resurrected.  At this point, I didn't know much about Christianity, so I'm not sure if I even spotted the parallel with Christ, but I knew that something foreign to the world the author created in the first book had crept into the book, and ruined it.  When I finally figured out what Lewis was trying to do, I felt a little offended, like I had been slipped a dressed-up pamphlet and been tricked into reading it.  An honest writer, instead of writing a &quot;novel&quot;, might simply have published the single sentence: read the Bible and think about it.<br />Now, by the end of The Man Who Was Thursday, I felt something of the same annoyance, but Chesterton offers so many little marvels and jewels of observation along the way that I forgive him - mostly. An example: &quot;For he was a sincere man, and in spite of his superficial airs and graces, at root a humble one.  And it is always the humble man who talks too much; the proud man watches himself too closely.&quot;<br />The plot of the book is incredibly involved, and continually in motion: it involves a spy placed inside an anarchist council with members named after each of the seven days, the President of the organization being named Sunday.  Now, could that name have some religious significance, I wonder?  The problem with the book is that the entire plot has just been a setup to get characters to a metaphysical Christian conclusion that has no ressemblance to the reality of the rest of the book.  Now, everything that had been taken at face value so far is symbolic, and meant to represent something about man's relationship with God.  You almost feel like all of the twists and turns of the plot were a complete waste of the time; the reality of the first 170 pages of the book is devalued, despite being well-constructed and magnificently original.  As with Lewis, I felt like if Chesterton had theological points to make, he should have written a book of theology.<br />Then again, maybe the framework of the book, which lends itself to a hundred interpretations, is a more effective tool to get readers to think about the religious questions asked than a simple work of biblical exegesis.  How succesful this book is for you, then, is largely going to depend on whether Chesterton's obsessions are your obsessions: the nature of the God as depicted in the Bible, and so on.  At the moment, at least, I'm afraid that I am not, and am searching for my answers elsewhere, even though I still felt some of the grandeur of the book's conclusion.  I was pleased enough with what was here, but am still disappointed that the book I was reading turned out to be about something else altogether.s of the book is devalued, despite being well-constructed and magnificently original.  As with Lewis, I felt like if Chesterton had theological points to make, he should have written a book of theology.<br />Then again, maybe the framework of the book, which lends itself to a hundred interpretations, is a more effective tool to get readers to think about the religious questions asked than a simple work of biblical exegesis.  How succesful this book is for you, then, is largely going to depend on whether Chesterton's obsessions are your obsessions: the nature of the God as depicted in the Bible, and so on.  At the moment, at least, I'm afraid that I am not, and am searching for my answers elsewhere, even though I still felt some of the grandeur of the book's conclusion.  I was pleased enough with what was here, but am still disappointed that the book I was reading turned out to be about something else altogether.	2004-06-13
US	29956171	R3G1NKDCIFG3S6	0316919810	392375238	Oblivion: Stories	Books	4	139	164	N	N	Calm down, people	There are some writers who it becomes fashionable to read and then, when they become too popular or widely praised, fashionable to put down.  We are in the midst of the recoil that began after Infinite Jest became popular.  I think the recoil is probably going to continue (and appears to be continuing in these reviews) because Wallace is a writer whose flaws are so easy to spot, and it's simple to quote sections of his writing and hold them up as everything that's wrong with today's literary writing.  His style is frequently bloated and self-indulgent, and if you're not paying attention it's easy to get lost and call all of it nonsense.  Sometimes he tries as hard as he can to make you stop paying attention, when he throws in what appear to be irrelevancies or whatever oddity he can come up with to be more original - because god forbid that any of his writing have the taint of old-fashioned conservative storytelling.<br />This is, unfortunately, only half the truth, because there really are magical moments in Wallace's writing, and just when you're about to get absolutely fed up with him he pulls out something beautiful, or shocking, that for whatever reason stays with you.  Even in a two page story like &quot;Incarnations of Burned Children&quot; I went through all of the probable reactions to the stories in this volume: initial interest, confusion with the prose style, impatience, boredom, and then suddenly a moment where the story seems to open up and become incredibly moving.  <br />The story is about a mother accidentally scalding her toddler, and is told in the long clause-filled breathless sentences that Wallace uses - with occasional good taste.  At first, the prose is frustrating, because it seems to be getting in the way of actually enjoying the story, but eventually it falls into a certain rhythm, and as the parents are frantically trying to cool down their child it starts to imitate their panic, until both the parents and reader realize with horror thatthe hot water inside the diaper is still burning the child, and despite knowing nothing about this family, in just this little story we can start to understand what it's like to feel terrified for a child that is ours.<br />When a writer enjoys goofing around, and seems to be scared of clarity, it's occasionally hard to judge his genuine value.  Reading an early novel of Beckett's, with its incessant clowning around and self-conscious erudition, I wasn't really sure what the big deal was about him - he just seemed like an aggravatingly precocious little kid.  But there were glimmers of a profound talent there.  And I think there are here too.  Instead of complaining about the obvious surface clutter - which, who knows, might be inextricably linked to the virtues, although I hope not - I'm pleased enough with what he can give us.	2004-06-04
US	29956171	R3CLAHBEJT8B6I	0312315716	860060808	Little Children: A Novel	Books	3	37	38	N	N	Having affairs with boring people	I've always been curious about what it must feel like for people who still consider themselves young to have children and settle into suburbia, into a life that just a few years earlier they would have thought bland and unexciting.  Considering how widespread the experience of \\"settling down\\" is for people of a certain class, I've always been surprised that there haven't been more books written about this transition from youth to a more routine maturity.  A review of Little Children in the New York Times made this seem like a book that was finally exploring this territory.<br />After gobbling this book up in two days, I'm afraid it doesn't really explore that strange transition; it really doesn't explore anything at all.  It skims over the surface of too many characters and too many events, and uses that oldest of devices - an extramarital affair - to sustain interest, without arousing interest in much else.  When reading Perrotta's excellent description of a football game, I think I understood why: Perrotta writes like a movie.  His smooth, readable prose translates easily into images, the plots dovetail in a contrived and predictable way, and the entire plot of the book is split up into short scenes just like film narratives.  This book would be incredibly easy to convert into a screenplay, and I'm sure someone's doing just that.<br />Like many writers whose first exposure to storytelling was through television and the movies, Perrotta seems to write more for the screen than the page.  The problem with this is that he doesn't use the resources of the page, the most important of which is giving the characters a real interior life.  Everyone in Little Children, from the people having the affair, to the spouses, to the child molester and his mother, is given a thumbnail personality, and a sketch of their personal history, but no one feels particularly alive; I didn't feel like I knew a single one of them.  Which meant I didn't much care what happened to them.<br />Good actors, and a sharp screenplay, could make this material feel more vibrant than it is.  Election, already made from one of Perrotta's books, had incredible vitality, partially because it was more clearly satirical than Little Children, which walks the line between satire and realism, and ends up doing neither effectively.  The little humorous touches are what work best: for example, the line about JFK Jr. being the patron saint of people who have failed the bar exam, since the fact that he failed twice is sympathetically mentioned to Todd every time his inability to pass is brought up.<br />Other than these funny bits, the writing is good without ever being great.  The big problem, I think, is that none of the characters have the power to surprise us.  Todd and Sarah's affair proceeds in quite an ordinary way, the characters think thoughts that are always commonplace, and Perrotta ends with Todd's decidedly unrevelatory realization that his affair is exciting only because he is married.  The thrill comes from the break in routine, not from the relationship with Sarah; the second Sarah replaces his wife as his primary relationship, he'll feel restless again.  Well, obviously.<br />If an author wants to startle us, he either has to force us to identify with his characters, or at least understand how they think (for example, with the child molester), or depict the social forces that create these dreary people.  Or, finally, make the book so funny or entertaining that we don't care about how predictable the characters are.  Perrotta throws in some outlandish plot developments, like Sarah's husband being obsessed with an Internet pornography site, and then going off to see the woman who runs it, but someone the husband still felt like the same boring old guy; I wouldn't have cared if he'd ended up being the porn queen's long lost brother.  Now, if Perrotta's point is that these people just aren't that special, then I don't see why I should bother reading a book aboutthem.<br />The most interesting part of the book probably illustrates this.  It comes in the book club that Sarah joins that is discussing Madame Bovary, the umbrella from under which all this infidelity-as-response-to-boredom literature emerged.  Sarah says that Madame Bovary's problem wasn't that she was unfaithful, or excessively romantic, but that she committed adultery with losers, and never found anyone worthy of her heroic passion.  Now, it isn't fair to compare every novel with old masterpieces, but Perrotta might have considered his own character's statement, and thought about whether anyone in his book either had, or was worthy of, that sort of passion.  And, if not, why write about them?	2004-05-17
US	29956171	RP9FK76OW6R79	0810117959	485428272	Anton Chekhov: A Life	Books	4	33	35	N	N	Sadly, the only comprehensive biography	I say sadly because Rayfield really isn't a very good writer.  His style is clumsy, and he has no idea how to maintain any sort of narrative.  He just throws facts at you.  People are mentioned for a few lines and then reintroduced chapters later as if we're supposed to remember who they are.  All over the book sentences crop up that are near impossible to figure out.  Also, considering how much of Chekhov's personal writing survives, there aren't nearly enough excerpts from his notebooks and letters.  The few quotes that are there are so fascinating that they're worth the slog through Rayfield's masses of detail.<br />The worst sin that he commits is that he doesn't much seem to like his subject, and invests most of his energy in making Chekhov look bad.  To some extent, Chekhov needs some demythologizing, because too many people have made a saint out of him. Rayfield provides plenty of evidence that Chekhov wasn't the kindhearted conscience of Russian literature that people make him out to be - he led on a lot of women, wasn't particularly faithful to the people that loved him, and had a cruel streak.  But there are lots of times when Rayfield goes out of his way to push a certain interpretation on the reader.  \\"Chekhov's response was brutal,\\" he insists, without providing any evidence - or, on occasion, actually quoting a letter that doesn't seem to justify his interpretation of Chekhov's bad behavior at all.<br />In fact, Rayfield really doesn't know how to marshall his evidence to support his statements.  He seems also to dislike Olga Knipper, Anton's wife, and keeps insisting that the marriage was unhappy, and that Chekhov really didn't seem to love her, without showing us why this has to be true.  Indeed, much of the material that he gives us seems to indicate the opposite.<br />But now comes the Sadly.  This is really the only biography that gives you the entire story about Chekhov.  Too much about Chekhov sexual drives is left out of other biographies, andas Rayfield pretty conclusively demonstrates, this drive was a major part of Anton's life and motivations.  And, for all of his faults, Rayfield really has dug deeper and found out more than any other biographer.  From the teachers at Chekhov's school in Taganrog to, well, a host of other occasionally interesting trivia, Rayfield just has more.  Until someone else comes along and tries to animate all this material into a biography that's actually enjoyable to read, Rayfield is all there is.  Chekhov's letters provide a better introduction to his life, but anyone that really wants to go behind the mask needs to read this book.	2004-05-03
US	29956171	RUZUWGOO3U7ED	0312278284	845098483	The Easter Parade: A Novel	Books	4	6	10	N	N	The thin line between realism and disgust	I didn't like this book as much as Revolutionary Road - I don't think it's as good a book - mainly because the subject matter just doesn't seem quite right for a novel: people trapped in cycles of failure that they don't have the strength to escape just aren't good subjects for novels.  The Easter Parade has no narrative thrust: we follow this poor woman through failed relationship after failed relationship to the point where they start to blend together and all we have is a hopeless feeling - at some point, she actually started to bore me.  <br />This is, in a way, an accomplishment, because Yates has duplicated the feeling of the main character: after a certain number of breakups, Emily is probably bored with herself, too, bored with her own misery.  This is why her life is sympathetic and tragic instead of intolerable - she never succumbs to self-pity, and at the end her strongest feeling is just one of total incomprehension at the way her life has turned out.  The achievement of this book for most readers, I think, is forcing us to look around and say - these people exist, this is how life is for some people. Whereas reading Revolutionary Road was like getting assaulted: this is what YOU are like too, it said, and don't try to wriggle out of it.<br />But novels need forward drive, they need some sort of engine to move them forward, and while Yates is an absolute master at summary narration, and jumping forward in time, the material is what it is.  Imagine writing a novel about Sisyphus - how in the world could you make it interesting, even for a few hundred pages?  That's pretty much what The Easter Parade is; and it's an achievement for the attempt, and the fact that Yates writes about lives that authors usually don't bother exploring in depth.  Matthew Arnold said about Anna Karenina that we're not meant to see it as a piece of life and not a work of art; he's wrong about that regarding Anna Karenina, but the description could probably be applied here.<br />Another thing that struck me about this book was that Yates, for a realistic writer, has very selective empathy.  In this book, the descriptions of Pooky (the mother's pet name) are brutal; they show an absolute disgust, and a refusal to enter into her life, which is just as sad in its own as Emily's.  Yates keeps mentioning that there's food stuck to her face while she eats, that her legs spread as she gets increasingly drunk, exposing the crotch of her panties; her daughters find her naked after she has passed out.  It can be argued that at least some of this reflects Emily's own disgust for her mother, but sometimes I think Yates is just being cruel - shoving his disgust for these people in the reader's face.  <br />When he bothers illuminating the characters' inner lives, and dramatizing their struggles, I think that such details can be a form of respect - an absolute determination to tell the truth about his characters' lives - but when he doesn't bother seeing inside them, continually describing the squalor of their lives makes it seem like he's going out of his way to humiliate them.	2004-02-19
US	29956171	R2I71KPDY26WAD	0940322218	380608340	Jakob von Gunten (New York Review Books Classics)	Books	5	40	42	N	N	A strange wonderful book	Jakov von Gunten is not like any novel I have read before and not, despite all the comparisons, like any novel of Kafka's.  It is more like a series of first person reflections, with only the repeating cast of characters and the narrator to hold the novel together.  Kafka's novels all have a certain narrative drive, and here there is very little, although the story of the slow dissolution of the school is strangely moving.  <br />Bernard van Dieren once wrote that every original mind is a cosmos in itself: Walser gains nothing from being continually advertised as Kafka-lite.  He is his own writer.  By any standard, he is not as great a writer as Kafka, but his outlook is much more genial - less insular and more human - despite the fact that Walser and not Kafka was the one who ended up in the insane asylum.  This book is his long masterpiece.  The episodic rambling quality of the novel betrays Walser's roots in the short story, but the material never feels scattershot or forced together.<br />Something Jakob says gets at what Walser might be trying to do - he's writing about the hair of the students in the school: &quot;And because we all look so charmingly barbered and parted, we all look alike, which would be a huge joke for any writer, for example, if he came on a visit to study us in our glory and littleness.  This writer had better stay at home.  Writers are just windbags who only want to study, make pictures and observations.  To live is what matters, then the observation happens of its own accord.&quot;<br />A strange thought for someone writing in a diary!  But maybe the diary form is the closest that any writer can come to approximating the feeling of life, and letting the reader make his or her own observations.  Walser does seem to have a certain distrust of the intellect, but he is not a naive, untutored talent; what he sees, though, is the limitations of intellect, which is perhaps his closest relationship with Kafka - &quot;One is always wrong when onetakes up with big words,&quot; he writes, and produces a masterpiece using all small ones.	2004-01-08
US	29956171	RRSPKEQFDH1QH	1590170571	142663756	The Invention of Morel (New York Review Books Classics)	Books	3	64	80	N	N	a good book	I picked up this book because of the rather extravagant praise from Borges and Paz.  Apparently it was inspired by the silent film star Louise Brooks, which makes sense: the entire book is about our capacity to love phantoms.  All of us probably remember early infatuations with celebrities who never existed for us as anything but reproductions: on paper, televisions, the movie screen.<br />Essentially, this book imagines what happens when the reproductions become faithful enough to be indistinguishable from the real thing.  It is narrated by a man hiding from the police on a deserted island for an undisclosed crime.  One day people appear, and the man quickly falls in love with one of the women; strangely enough, they often disappear for short stretches of time, and seem to repeat the same conversations and actions again and again.<br />All of this is well-written, but when the explanation is given, all that preceded seems to have been time spent waiting for the a-ha twist: it's only after this point that the book becomes really interesting.  I won't give away the story, because the plot is worth getting through yourself: let me mention something that it reminded me of, though.  <br />When Apocalypse Now: Redux came out, they restored scenes of Martin Sheen's brief love affair with a French woman on the river, a storyline completely left out of the original cut.  The actress, now an old woman, went to the theatres and saw herself young and beautiful again.  And something about her youth is now eternal, or at least as eternal as film proves to be.<br />I find it completely plausible, for example, that one could find a bundle of old home videos and be so charmed by a woman in them (since I'm a man) that you fall in (some sort of) love with her, even though she is probably either dead now or a completely different woman.  But in some way the image of her is real, in the sense that it exists on the tapes and in your own head.<br />These are some of the ideas that this book plays with and, I must say, it is more fascinating for the ideas it provokes than the narrative itself.  In many ways, it feels like second-rate Borges: The Circular Ruins (or a few other stories) stretched to novella length.  What Casares should have accomplished with this length is given Faustine (the woman) some sort of character that seemed worthy of the reader's love, and not just the narrator's.  At the moment she's a non-entity.<br />So this story isn't heartbreaking, as the other reviewer (whose flimsy review, frankly, shows no evidence that he actually read the book) tries to say. The Invention of Morel is the work of a talented but not brilliant writer.  Perhaps another flaw of this book is that the ideal medium for the story seems to be film; I can see why this was, supposedly, the inspiration for Last Year at Marienbad.<br />In any case, if these ideas strike you as interesting, I recommend this book.  It's really very short, and perhaps not worth paying this much for, since I wouldn't care to have it as part of my permanent collection; I read it first in the library, where it had several short stories from Bioy (NYRB might have included those) as well as several lovely woodcut illustrations.	2003-12-16
US	29956171	R1XE5JQ5EOM8M8	0140159959	628844704	Ludwig Wittgenstein: The Duty of Genius	Books	4	13	15	N	N	A wonderful introduction to the man and the work	Aside from a quickly abandoned attempt to read the Tractatus as a pretentious freshman in college, I didn't know anything about Wittgenstein other than a few random facts.  The ones that fascinated me were that, after finished his first book, he went off to teach in a rural primary school; that he had been commended for bravery several times in WWI; and that among his last words, when his friends were arriving too late to see him on his deathbed, were \\"tell them I've had a wonderful life.\\"<br />There was something fascinating about all of this existing in one man, so when a philosophy professor I ran into at a wedding recommended this book as the place to start, I rushed to pick it up.<br />Loosely speaking, great men have two types of lives: the ones devoted to an ethical or aesthetic mission, and the ones whose lives are less streamlined, more variegated.  For the former, their lives slip naturally into a type of narrative with a few basic themes: you can see them make progress towards the goal that they have set for themselves.  Biographies of people like Gandhi, for example, can be slim and focused.  For the others, whose lives are messy and not motivated by a few basic concerns, I prefer baggy biographies, that revel in small details: Ellman's Joyce, for example, or The Life of Johnson.<br />Wittgenstein is a curious combination of the two, because he is almost obsessively motivated by a goal of religious and moral purity that directs his entire life; and yet, his actions (and choice of partners) are so cyclical that occasionally you start losing track of people, and feeling like you've read the chapter before: the same suicidal streak, another timid, gentle male partner.<br />Monk handles this well: he writes beautifully (and colloquially, in the best possible sense) and isn't afraid of passionate engagement.  The book is beautifully structured, and the themes that surface continually in Wittgenstein's life are brought up gracefully and juggled with consummateskill.  I only occasionally felt like Monk tried too hard to fit Wittgenstein's life into the framework he created.  Wittgenstein's love of pulp detective fiction, for example, is supposed to indicate how much he valued intuition instead of a deductive style of reasoning, and connects to the philosophy of the later years?  Maybe he just liked detective stories: lots of people have.<br />Monk's desire for a coherent narrative also makes him leave out parts that I thought would be fascinating. He mentions a thank you note of Rilke's that Wittgenstein really liked, but he doesn't quote it; Wittgenstein discusses a poem that he loves with his friend for a whole letter, but the poem is never quoted - it's those kinds of technically unnecessary little bits that might have illuminated a great deal (or just been interesting).  But Monk also has an eye for the wonderful detail - and he has clearly dug up almost everything that can be found on W. - like the diary of a 14-year boy whose father he visited.<br />This is also a good introduction to W's work, although not really an in-depth exploration.  I disagree with the reviewer who said that this book was a deflation of genius.  At the end of this book, I still admired the demands that Wittgenstein made on himself, his honesty, his determination, and his generosity, but I was further convinced that a genius should not be trusted for opinions on any subject but his own narrow discipline.  Anyway, read this book; I enjoyed it a lot.	2003-12-12
US	29956171	R3JHDJIDA6NT92	0198612583	341552322	The Compact Edition of The Oxford English Dictionary, Complete Text Reproduced Micrographically (in slipcase with reading glass) (v. 1-20)	Books	3	126	136	N	N	A beautiful book, but hard to use	I have no complaints about the actual content of the book - this is by far the best dictionary in the world - but everyone should seriously consider whether they want to spend this much money to look at text the size of microfiche print.  That isn't an exaggeration; each page actually looks like it has several of those little microfiche slides printed on it.  Even with the magnifying glass, the print is incredibly tiny, and anyone at all far-sighted should stay away from this book.<br />Although I appreciate the efforts of the OED to put so much material into one book, the product is just too unwieldy - to hold, to read, to carry around.  In addition to the print being tiny, the book is huge.  It's nice as an object, but as a functional dictionary it proves to be rather inconvenient - especially if you don't have a nice big stand for it to rest on, which I don't.<br />I really dislike staring at a computer screen, and prefer to get a paper copy of any text if at all possible - but for the OED that isn't economically feasible.  I didn't want the abridged version, and buying all twenty volumes is prohibitively expensive - so I really do recommend the CD Rom version or subscribing to the dictionary online if you have Internet access.  You can't really browse in those, which is too bad, but you can't really browse while trawling around this Lilliputian thicket of letters with a magnifying glass either.<br />The electronic sources have the additional feature of being searchable by multiple terms, so you can find quotes from a particular author, or book - and many other things that aren't possible with paper.<br />Buy this if you only plan on dipping into it on rare occasions, and want a lovely object, but there are better options for people really hoping to use it as a dictionary.	2003-12-02
US	29956171	RYO039MMM491M	0738201898	400797258	Mortal Peril: Our Inalienable Right to Health Care?	Books	4	28	31	N	N	Inspires agreement and argument	A fiercely libertarian roommate of mine gave me this book to read, and I was pleasantly surprised to discover that it was about more than health care.  The beginning is actually a good primer on common law, and an effective encapsulation of the philosophical foundations of libertarian thought.  Epstein effectively cuts through the platitudes that have been shaping decades of largely ineffective government policy-the sanctity of every single human life, for example-and explains how accepting these commonplaces can lead to results that are worse for everyone.<br />The section dealing with common law mostly discusses the distinction between positive rights and negative rights.  Positive rights are those that grant a people the right TO something: liberty, for example, or the right to a decent standard of living.  Negative rights give the people the right NOT to have something happen to them: infringement on their person or property, or unfair treatment by another party.  Far from being a small semantic distinction (I'm sure all of us can think of how most laws could be stated in either positive or negative form) Epstein shows how positive rights are much harder to enforce, and generally lead to a variety of perverse consequences when we try.  The rest of the book-dealing with the Clinton health care proposal, for example-has dated, but is worth reading for the application of these ideas. <br />Epstein writes an elegant but dry sentence, with occasional jargon, and except for the times when he gets passionate, the book moves along at a stately plod: I had to reread several sections to make sure I understood them.  But he is clear, and avoids the most intolerable feature of many libertarian thinkers: intellectual smugness.  He understands that government welfare policies are generally motivated by noble impulses, and that the way to convince people isn't to jump around doing the I'm-so-smart dance, but to illustrate the difficulties of turning a moral imperative into a government edict.<br />The part of the book I had the most trouble with was that dealing with charity.  Epstein points out that private charity was doing an excellent job before the government stepped in and took the responsibility off the shoulders of the individual, who now felt (often) that he had done his part just by paying his taxes.  In other sections, however, Epstein maintains that having government welfare discourages people from taking care of their own health, because they now realize that they have a safety net.<br />Now, I don't understand how a government safety net would discourage people from doing this any more than a private safety net.  Epstein could argue that a safety net based on private charity would be more selective, but in my experience this isn't true: a church asks fewer questions than the government.  The biggest problem with Epstein's argument is that, if taken to its logical conclusion, it's opposed to the idea of any effective charity at all: anything that tells people that they have help if something bad happens to them will, to some extent, discourage them from trying as hard as possible to avoid that catastrophe.<br />And not only charity, actually: this idea is technically opposed to the idea of many kinds of medical treatment.  Doesn't the existence of angioplasty make people less worried about watching their weight, in the same way that the effectiveness of AIDS medication has made people less worried about contracting HIV?  But I hardly think that anyone would want to stop research in these areas, even though the illness is - in most cases -the \\"fault\\" of the patient.<br />Now, a world where everyone is completely responsible for his or her own lack of foresight might be better than the world we live in, but I doubt that many of us would be confident enough in our own judgment to opt for it - which is probably why we leave it up to the government, despite the usual results.	2003-12-01
US	29956171	R1OEAU1K9YSO85	0142002380	263354519	The Rush for Second Place: Essays and Occasional Writings	Books	3	17	22	N	N	Okay just as an indication of what's bouncing around in	Gaddis's head, but as essays these are incredibly ineffective.  Take the longest piece in this collection - The Rush for Second Place: it pretty much starts out with the conviction that American culture is largely mediocre (revolutionary thought!) and then just lists a whole bunch of things that Gaddis considers stupid and ridiculous.  Well, I agree that there's a lot about this country that's stupid and ridiculous, but the last thing I need is a list: I'm not asking for solutions, just an argument - a point - something.  An essay: TRY to accomplish something.  No one else needs another sputtering catalogue of rage.<br />The only thing a list is useful for, of course, is exposing you to something (a book, a person) that you may not have heard of before.  And the most wonderful discovery that I got out of this book was John Holt and his books.  Read him if you haven't already.<br />As an admirer of Gaddis's fiction, though, which is full of fascinating ideas, this collection was disappointing and even a little dismaying.  The early essays contain interesting germs of topics, such as a short piece of writing on the player piano, whose ramifications aren't really developed.  Gaddis apparently considered the player piano as a sort of symbol for a culture that wants art without effort, easy mechanized entertainment for the masses - but that's just my incompetent gloss, and I wish that he'd made the effort to put together an argument himself.<br />And the later work, as I said earlier, is of the scattershot rant variety - even the interesting comparison of Erewhon with the Republican congress of the 90s jumps around and has obviously dated rather badly.<br />The reason I say this is a little dismaying is that - if an author writing essays has such trouble expressing himself in a coherent fashion - it starts to reflect on his fiction as well.  I've read A Frolic of His Own and Carpenter's Gothic - and have stalled out recently, although I hope to start again, on The Recognitions and JR - and although I still find them hilarious satires, I'm starting to doubt the penetration of the thought behind the comedy.  Gaddis's imagination is visionary, but I'm starting to feel that - like Dickens - his mind is pretty commonplace.  The standard liberal line on politics, for the most part, and moaning about the stupidity of mass culture: maybe he's right, but how dreary it is to be right in such a boring and disorganized fashion.	2003-11-21
US	29956171	R15KBVVGDLAZ69	0679747362	659610206	The Changing Light at Sandover: A Poem	Books	5	68	69	N	N	A sample	There was a lot of attention given to Merrill when his Collected Poems came out, so I went out and read it. (The fact that I hadn't heard of him before should indicate that I don't read a lot of modern poetry). What was astonishing was how effortlessly the poems read, how thoroughly Merrill had mastered the technical aspects of the craft. The poems read as smoothly as prose, but line after line stayed in the memory - and when you went back you realized what a complex and subtle rhyme scheme many of the poems had.<br />But for some reason, there was a lot I could admire but very little I could love. They didn't just feel like exercises in style, but there was something too cool and smooth about their surface: there wasn't enough humanity in them. <br />The same isn't true of The Changing Light at Sandover. Don't be put off by the Ouija stuff: the heart of this poem isn't some sort of half-baked spiritualism, but simply the relationship between two people that love each other - the poet and David Jackson. <br />Let me quote a line from The Book of Ephraim that I memorized without trying, just from reading it a few times. The same technical mastery is there, but now there's something alive in them. Enough of the other reviews tell you what the poem is about, so here's a sample of how beautiful this strange masterpiece can be in its smallest details: <br />We take long walks through the turning leaves<BR>And ponder turnings taken by our lives. <br />Look at each other closely, as friends will<BR>On parting. This is not farewell, <br />Not now. But something in the sad<BR>End-of-season light remains unsaid.	2003-11-19
US	29956171	R3G0UAWZA1JMLH	014006110X	257388093	Waiting for the Barbarians: A Novel	Books	4	16	18	N	N	the age of empire	Waiting for the Barbarians came up in a discussion we were having around the dinner table; I'm not sure why.  And my father mentioned that he had read it more than ten years ago, and certain scenes were still sharp in his mind, like he had lived through them himself.  The writing made everything snap to life.<br />Memorability isn't the best measure of the quality of a work (by the end of Anna Karenina, I had forgotten a lot of what I'd read, but still remember the palpable sensation that I had just read the greatest thing ever written) but a book that achieves lasting vividness is at least doing something right.<br />So I was actually reading this book when Coetzee received the Nobel prize.  It wasn't surprising; he's an original but accesible writer who frequently addresses questions of race in a country torn by strife and only recently ruled by a semi-authoritarian government: if that's not a lock, I don't know what is.<br />I read a quote on the back that compared Coetzee to Kafka; the comparison is apt but also brings out some of the weaknesses of this book.  The first major difference is that Kafka has a sense of humor - his two major novels are, essentially, bureaucratic farces.  Nothing in this book will so much as raise a smile.  This isn't necessarily an aesthetic flaw.  It just means that I enjoy rereading Kafka and probably won't pick up this book again.<br />The second difference is that Kafka's entire world is of a piece.  Nothing feels like phony symbolism or some sort of extended allegory that's been inserted into an essentially realistic story: you're immediately thrown into a bizarre dream world that makes a certain kind of sense, and you stay there for the entire length of the novel.  This is not true of Waiting for the Barbarians.  It reads something like a parable, since the country and the ethnicity of the people are never identified, but it has a plausible plot that could take place in any number of countries with only small alterations.  <br/>But this largely realistic story is constantly interrupted by events that cannot be taken at face value.  The magistrate's bathing of the barbarian woman didn't make psychological sense to me: it feel too obviously symbolic.  The same with Coetzee's use of one of fiction's oldest devices: the inexplicable dream.  The girl in the snow without a face - I suppose it connects with the barbarian girl's blindness, and his inability to remember her features, and his desire to smooth out the wounds on her body.  That's all great.  But I didn't read this book to write a thesis, and all of these parts felt clumsy and outside the reality of the actual events.<br />The parts of the book that were startling and original, I thought, dealt with the impact of pain and humiliation on the human psyche.  Coetzee is best when exploring human cruelty, and the position of people driven to the limits of tolerable existence: the Magistrate hanging from the tree in women's clothes, begging for scraps, starving in his room.  All of it told in prose that is unobtrusively elegant, that describes the most horrific acts without ellipses or euphemisms, and with simple and concrete physical detail.  For example, a boy has been tortured, and the magistrate wants to know how he got the scabs and bruises on his belly and groins.  Here's what the guard says to him:<br />\\"A knife,\\" he whispers back.  \\"Just a little knife, like this.\\"  He spreads his thumb and forefinger.  Gripping his little knife of air he makes a curt thrust into the sleeping boy's body and turns the knife delicately, like a key, first left, then right.  Then he withdraws it, his hand returns to his side, he stands waiting.<br />This is good writing: honest and direct without being pointlessly lurid.  The book's main flaws are in structure, not prose - after the barbarian woman leaves, one of the poles of the book is gone, and the remainder feels shapeless and disconnected from the first half.  The point of view also caused some problems.  The first person present tense gives the action a feeling of immediacy, but it also gives the magistrate's thoughts a certain false quality: while I was reading it, I kept thinking, he's having this complex epiphany on the spot?  Although he's clearly a smart guy, the book suffers from his extended disquisitions on various subjects; they feel more like essays.  But some of them are good essays.  Here's one, that I think is the book's most profound thesis:<br />The children never doubt that the great old trees in whose shade they play will stand forever, that one day they will grow to be strong like their fathers, fertile like their mothers, that they will live and prosper and raise their own children and grow old in the place where they were born.  What has made it impossible for us to live in time like fish in water, like birds in air, like children?  It is the fault of Empire!  Empire has created the time of history.  Empire has located its existence not in the smooth recurrent spinning time of the cycle of the seasons but in the jagged time of rise and fall, of beginning and end, of catastrophe.  One thought alone preoccupies the submerged mind of Empire: how not to end, how not to die, how to prolong its era.	2003-11-16
US	29956171	R20OZV8SLKJV89	0940322846	79839325	As a Man Grows Older (New York Review Books Classics)	Books	5	35	35	N	N	Compassionate and clear-eyed: a masterpiece	I don't think Svevo is an artist that can be ruined or even significantly damaged by a translation, any more than Tolstoy can be messed up by Constance Garnett - it may not be as true to the quality of their prose, but for the most part I think their rare value is communicated as long as the translation is accurate: and this one is.  The comparison to Tolstoy is apt, because I think Svevo is sort of a bridge between that tradition and Proust, where the writing starts drawing a great deal more attention to itself - and the internal workings of consciousness come to the forefront.<br />Svevo strikes the perfect balance between the 19th century's skill at construction complete characters (well, at least the Russians and George Eliot) and the 20th century's desire to focus intensely on processes of thinking, to lay bare the way they function.  What Joyce did by actually splitting up and writing Bloom's individual thoughts, Svevo accomplishes with sentences that have the precision and wit of a French aphorist, while retaining a level of compassion that can coexist with his irony.<br />I remember a passage in The Confessions of Zeno (I read the Zoete translation on that one too) where, after a hilarious sequence when Zeno ends up marrying a woman that he has no interest in marrying, he comes to realize - many years later - just how much he's come to love her.  Svevo is, I think, the most warm-hearted of great 20th century writers, even though all of his books are supposed to be merciless unmaskings of ineffectual men.<br />As much as I loved The Confessions (or Conscience) of Zeno, this is the more complete work of art.  The five linked stories in Zeno didn't really cohere (especially the last chapter), but this book is beautifully paced and constructed, the work of a young man who is already a master - funny and sad and wonderful.  A book to treasure.<br />(Incidentally: I like Joyce's title, As a Man Grows Older, but it would have been nice to have Svevo's original title back - which was only abandoned because they didn't think anyone would buy a book called Senility - certainly very few people bought Senilita when it was in Italian.  And people were, understandably, confused, since there's no one in this book who is old, or any discussion in it of aging or senility.  <br />But the whole book is filled with an atmosphere of last things: it is also about virility, and the lack of it, and the desire to both have and get away from the mental clarity that comes with intelligence.  Senility: a great writer knows how to come up with a great title.  But this is still a lovely book in a beautiful edition: another wonderful reissue from NYRB.)	2003-11-13
US	29956171	R1SJMT7KC1WDF0	0140432485	225572611	What Maisie Knew (Penguin Classics)	Books	2	5	18	N	N	Tedium, thy name is Maisie	I'd read The Ambassadors, Portrait of a Lady, and a bunch of short stories - and I flipped through two introductions that said that this was perhaps one of James's most succesful works, so I picked it up.<br />What I discovered is that those introduction writers are crazy.  This book is incredibly boring.  It is, of course, well-written, and there are no parts that I can identify as specifically bad - but it fails to live, it fails to arouse any interest.  Despite a surprisingly lurid and eventful plot, with people changing partners all the time, none of the characters ever feel really THERE.  <br />Maybe it's because the adults are the genuine focus of the book, with Maisie just the hub around which they spin, and using her perspective was too limiting: James is best when he can fluidly illuminate the consciousness of one character after another, and there's only so much of that you can do through a child's eyes.  We get the irony of knowing more about the corrupt adults around Maisie that she does, but this doesn't really allow for a full exploration of anyone.<br />All of this would be tolerable if we at least had a sense of Maisie, if we had a real sense of being inside a child's mind.  But the star of this book is by far the least convincing little girl in the history of literature.  Which means that her perspective never feels real either.  It sinks the whole book.<br />I can't think of another great writer, actually, that would be less suited to depict the world of a child than James: immediacy, physicality, animality are the words that come to mind when I think of the way children live, and they're the last words I would associate with HJ.  Tolstoy and Dickens are at one end of the spectrum and he's at another.<br />Don't bother plowing through this one: pretty much everything else is better.	2003-11-13
US	29956171	RD8WQ3F3H9GIB	0872204022	548716129	Dialogues Concerning Natural Religion (Hackett Classics)	Books	5	21	23	N	N	Profound and disturbing	I've never really been particularly religious or spiritual, but the argument that the organization of the world seemed to have a tremendous intelligence behind it always bothered me.  Dismissive explanations that matter can have it's own organizing principle that, through trial and error, could result in what we have today, were never completely satisfying.  How does randomness lead to something like, for example, the human eye?  (I think this question is supposed to have puzzled Darwin too.)<br />This book doesn't answer those questions, but it does point out that they are incorrectly asked to lead to certain comforting conclusions about the existence of god.  The operation of the world doesn't really point to an intelligent creator, the book points out, as much as a self-sustaining vegetable intelligence, the type that allows nutrients to go up the roots of a plant or that controls the cell division of an amoeba.  <br />This is presented in an elegant and frankly airtight argument by Philo who, as much as I could tell, is Hume's mouthpiece-even though Hume throws in some lame sidesteps to pretend that he's actually on the side of natural religion, perhaps to sneak this incredibly dangerous little book into the hands of people who might not otherwise read it.<br />I read this book in one sitting, and my head had a strange throbbing sensation at the end. I actually laughed a couple of times because too many ideas were bouncing around in there at once.  I press this book into the hands of all my friends who regard the evidence of god as self-evident, not to destroy their faith but to destroy the foundation of lies that it often rests on.<br />Kant regarded this book as the last word on the subject, and I agree.  Faith and reason are different things, and the only convincing proof of god's existence that this book leaves one with is: I just know that it's true, because I feel it.  The myriad other reasons that are put forth by people who don't really feel the presenceof god, but want too-that losing religion destroys morality, that is gives people nothing to live for-are demolished with disturbing precision.  Hume has no tolerance for sloppy thought.<br />The other essays aren't as profound (Hume spend years and years working on the Dialogues, although the format of it makes it seem more spontaneous and less labored over) but still worth having.  This is the edition I have, and it's the cheapest; the notes that one gets from other publishers aren't really essential.  Whatever parallels exist between this book and Cicero's dialogues strike me as of secondary importance.<br />A book of philosophy for everyone: I can't think of another one that addresses more universal concerns with such clarity.	2003-11-12
US	29956171	R28SBWA8M6OK0M	0679446591	676591963	The Happiness of Getting It Down Right: Letters of Frank O'Connor and William Maxwell, 1945-1966	Books	3	11	14	N	N	Just barely worth reading . . .	This isn't a thick book, because there just aren't that many letters between Maxwell and O'Connor.  I only picked it up because, after reading a few of O'Connor's short stories, I immediately decided that I needed to read every word that was ever written by or about this man.  Except for one lousy biography, I didn't regret the time at all.  <br />But this, honestly, isn't a great collection.  The letters start out rather dry, and even as they get more affectionate, you still don't feel like there's any meat there.  They discuss their families, and how much they like them, and how badly they want to see each other - but regarding their opinions on anything else, or an idea of how they went about writing their works, one gets very little: a lot of frustration about writer's block and some comments that are only useful if you're already familiar with Maxwell's novels (I've only read So Long See You Tomorrow, which isn't mentioned in this book) and O'Connor's later New Yorker stories.  And - except for The Ugly Duckling, a story that Maxwell inexplicably didn't like - most of O'Connor best work did not come in this period.  The most moving part of the correspondence, actually, comes when his creativity starts to dry up - and anyone that has read his Collected Stories can feel his genius exhausting itself towards the end.<br />A lot of it, too, just reads like little notes passed between friends - I imagine they saved their weightier ideas for when they could see each other, or could have long conversations on the phone.  None of them have the literary feel that Chekhov's letters do - those are works of art, as letters often were when it was hard to see people face to face or just pick up the phone.  The letters are often just summaries of events - this story is going well, this one not so well, the kids are fine - that were updates between friends: they're not interesting for an outsider, unless you're curious whether the family lives of happily married writers are asordinary as ours (yes, they are - all happy families do indeed ressemble each other).<br />The part of this book still sharp in my memory is the remembrance that Maxwell wrote of O'Connor after he died.  It's just a few pages, but the weight of years of affection and respect are there.  A beautiful piece of writing.  And one meant to be read - which is more than I can say, I'm afraid, for the letters.  Spend your time on their books: you'll get a better sense of what their lives were about.	2003-11-07
US	29956171	RXTELC7GS7W1S	0375708448	840034938	Revolutionary Road	Books	5	653	667	N	N	hard lessons	Reading the praise for this book actually made me less inclined to read it.  Another unmasking of the banality of the suburbs and the bland conformity of the 50s didn't strike me as particularly appealing or necessary.  Both of those things have been unmasked so often that I wonder why anyone bothers with either; there's nothing left to expose.  <br />The choice of target is also a little unfair: first, hypocrisy and small-mindedness are not localized in the suburbs to the extent that authors and filmmakers seem to think.  If a writer deliberately populates his story with caricatured materialistic bourgeois, then he shouldn't expect it to be a legitimate criticism of the age.   In any case, if an audience can separate themselves too easily from the people being described, the book has no sting - like American Beauty had no sting.  A real work of art should hurt a little.<br />But Revolutionary Road was not what I expected from the reviews.  Yates knows all of the pitfalls of the standard send-up of the middle class: the main characters in his story are not the usual suburban types, but people who consider themselves better than the dull people in their neighborhood; they mock the people that we, as readers, are so used to mocking, and become our surrogates.  <br />The real theme of this book is much deeper, and it transcends the era and even the plot of the book: what do people do when they are intelligent and spirited enough not to be satisfied with the conformity and blandness of their surroundings, but lack the drive to ever escape mediocrity, because they are, fundamentally, much more a part of their environment than they imagine?<br />The tragedy of this book is the discovery that you are, after all, perhaps not as extraordinary as you thought - and that has sting, because all of us, at some time, have thought that we were a bit better than the people around us, and most of us have realized with horror (although the realization doesn't always stick around) thatwe aren't as different, as far above them, as we thought.  Many of the moments in this book stick with you because they remind you of those moments when you came face to face with your own mediocrity, and challenges you to either be honest with yourself about what you are, or try sincerely to fulfill the ambitions that you have pursued so halfheartedly until now.<br />It's a hard lesson to deal with: I can tell why this book didn't sell.  The writing, by the way, is beautiful; scene after scene springs effortlessly to life, and you can't tell how much skill is involved until you go back and read it again.<br />I remember reading once that Yates - against the advice of his publishers - called this book Revolutionary Road because it seemed to him that the promise of the nation was petering out in the 50s, that the ambition and hope that had marked its founding had slowly led to a dead-end of uninspired and uninspiring prosperity (for some people, at least) - that the end of the revolutionary road had been reached.<br />This is overstated, and Yates's vision often seems to me unaccountably dark, as if he was blind to everything but his thesis.  Something about his outlook is right, though; the problem with the society isn't necessarily that it's hypocritical or conformist or mediocre, but that it produces people with such a horrible gap between aspiration and capacity - it gives them the leisure and intelligence to want a fuller life while robbing them of the backbone to get it.	2003-10-28
US	29956171	R39O17J46F7VQP	0312305060	785940945	The Hours	Books	2	14	21	N	N	A neatly constructed mediocrity	I really don't understand why this book is so popular.  Cunningham, instead of putting together three stories that play off each other, offers obvious parallels - carefully placed but without any life behind them, the work of a decent craftsman and not an artist - with a twist that kept me guessing for exactly five pages.<br />I remember reading a review that praised his impersonation of Virginia Woolf's style, but didn't seem to realize that perhaps Woolf's style was there for a reason, that it was the only way to animate the material that she wanted to write about.  Cunningham is merely aping, and for no particular reason other than the fact that he decided that one of the three stories should be about Virginia Woolf-and then, lamely, had one of the characters reading Mrs. Dalloway and another named Clarissa.<br />Woolf's suicide, incidentally, came many years (and books) after Mrs. Dalloway-and is not connected to it in the way that Cunningham implies, and only because the commonplace association exists between the madness of the soldier in Mrs. Dalloway and Woolf's recurrent mental health problems.  Placing these stories together offers nothing but surface understanding.  No novel that has receiving so much praise recently is less worth rereading.<br />The only reason this book needs to exist is to bring people to Mrs. Dalloway and, even better, To the Lighthouse.  Otherwise, it is just a bunch of wax sculptures with some pretty parts.  I don't think that Cunningham, incidentally, is a writer who should be a novelist.  He is better at illuminating small moments -- exploring types vividly, for a few pages -- than creating characters that have sustained life.  His short stories are actually very good: this book is just very average.	2003-10-20
US	29956171	R3GI5PISQW0IZN	0374518793	134708682	Auto-da-F: A Novel	Books	5	183	191	N	N	A strangely purifying book	I sympathize with the people who wrote bad reviews: this is not a book for many, many people. If you value reading books that seem to take place in the same world that we live in, with plausible human beings who act in ways that make quick sense - stay away. If you prefer to avoid the grotesque, the violent, and the disturbing, this book is also probably not for you.<br />None of these things, however, have anything to do with whether a book is good or not. A few people have said that Canetti's prose is difficult to understand: that is nonsense. You are allowed not to like this book, but if you can't comprehend prose of such clarity, the problem is yours, not the author's. The book reads like a hallucination, but the lines of the image are sharp, like Kafka's.<br />Someone else wrote that the book is a glimpse into the mind of a psychotic: this is also not true. The world that the author describes may be insane, but the characters all live and think with a strange internal logic that is completely coherent with their environment. A character deciding to become immobile to fend off the corrupting presence of his wife seems, here, to be a perfectly appropriate response. In this world, it makes sense; in our world, it does not, and if you like reading books that breathe the same air as you, don't bother with Auta da Fe.<br />But if you can accept this world, which is at a very disturbing angle to our own, then you will live through a strangely purifying experience. I can't explain why it happens, but encountering the horrible and comic events of this book, the greed and blindness of the characters, leaves you better in some way: freer of ambition and stupid vanities. Read it: you'll see what I mean.	2003-10-17
US	29956171	R1685AJJ7BAIN4	0865714487	688228440	Dumbing Us Down: The Hidden Curriculum of Compulsory Schooling, 10th Anniversary Edition	Books	3	35	40	N	N	Good, but . . .	Other than John Holt, I find most of writers on alternate education extremely repetitive, and Gatto is no exception. I can see why: they must feel like they are saying something that should strike sensible people as so obvious - and so incredibly important - that they can't understand why the world doesn't change as soon as the idea is put out there. So they say it again. And again. And the schools stay the same, as they have for 40 years or more.<br />The only place where Gatto strikes me as saying something new is his exploration of the history of education in this country. The motivations behind the system - how things actually got this way and somehow earned the consent of most of the people in this country - are his original contribution. But very little of that is here. Most of the historical material is in another one of his books which is, well, on the Internet, as well as for sale.  I think it's called An Underground History of American Education.<br />In this book, one has far too much of Gatto's memories of childhood, and insights that are taken largely from other writers - George Dennison, Paul Goodman, John Holt, and James Herndon have all covered this territory before, with deeper results.  I enjoyed Gatto a lot when I first came across him, but I find myself going back to the other writers much more frequently: you start seeing the limits of Gatto's thought very quickly, whereas the others continue to be interesting after several reads.<br />If you have money to give to a good cause and a good man, go ahead and buy this: otherwise, read his essays and agree wholeheartedly, but save your money.	2003-10-17
US	29956171	R1YT7455MNPLMZ	1560974273	582435172	Ghost World	Books	5	6	7	N	N	This book and David Boring . . .	had a lot to do with convincing me that a graphic novel could really achieve the depth and complexity of a genuine work of art.  Clowes is a subtle enough artist to get more character in a frame than most novelists can manage in a hundred pages.  I'd already seen the movie before I read the book, and I think I liked the  episodic quality of the comic much better than the movie - it suited the aimless, repetitive nature of adolescence a lot better than the more conventional narrative of the movie.  <br />I also thought the fantasylike ending of the movie was a false note: the conclusion of the comic book is much more consistent with the tone of the rest of the chapters, which are grounded in the reality of the characters and the world where they live, although I thought the movie beautifully showed how the increasingly phoniness and monotony of their town mirrored the slow separation of the friends, since Rebecca is a lot more willing to live in such an environment than Enid.<br />I remember reading an interview with Clowes when he was trying to explain why Enid and Rebecca like eating in those fake 50s diners.  He said that it was the fact that whoever made them obviously had no idea what he was doing that was attractive, because it showed the hand of a human creator, instead of some corporation that would probably take the time to get all the details right (see for example Cracker Barrel, where every store feels down home but is exactly the same) - and I felt the same way about this book: the spirit of the author is really there.  He isn't just trying to impersonate two teenage girls: he's obviously put a lot of his life and thoughts into Enid, and it's no surprise that her name (Enid Coleslaw) is an anagram for Daniel Clowes.<br />Anyway, this book is hilarious and authentic and groundbreaking, just the thing to give to friends who don't understand why you're still reading comic books...	2003-06-29
US	29956171	R2FF9TURLORROY	037541293X	104188910	The Gate	Books	3	10	13	N	N	Beautiful first half - second half wasn't as engrossing	The story of Bizot's internment in the camp, and his conversation's with Douch, are incredibly vivid and take one as far as it probably possible to go into the mind of a committed revolutionary, to try to understand how it's possible for a man who is by no means sadistic or insane to commit acts of torture and genocide.<br />The other reviews are right: this is not the book to read if one wants an overview of the Khmer Rouge years - other than a timeline and some assorted details, you don't get much - but it is valuable for shedding a great deal of light on the ideological foundations of the revolutionaries and the ensuing massacres.  I'm not sure why some people seem to praise Le Carre's introduction independent of the book: unless he has some other motive, it seems strange that a man would have the intelligence to write a good introduction but lack the acuity to actually know what a good book is.<br />Le Carre mentions Bizot remoteness in real life, and this distancing really extended to the memoir as well - although the book is filled with a great deal of conviction and sadness, I always got the feeling that the author was holding his cards close to his chest.  His then-wife keeps getting mentioned sporadically, but despite his repeated desire to see her again, we never get to know her or understand her importance to his life: the same for his daughter Helene.  We find out more about random holdouts in the embassy than we do about them, which is strange for two people who are supposedly such a huge part of his life.  You never really feel like the writer is telling you everything.<br />The second part of the book is still well-written, but something of a mess.  Lacking the twin poles of the narrator and Douch, his captor in the camp, which anchor the first part of the memoir, the book starts getting spread too thin.  Hundreds of characters seem to emerge and disappear - too many horrific events take place for any of them to have the necessary impact, which is ofcourse part of the impossibility of doing justice to any mass tragedy.	2003-06-29
US	29956171	R2ECZZUOJL7IKW	0375406921	392405614	David Boring	Books	4	5	7	N	N	If this is your first exposure to Clowes...	read Ghost World first, because it holds together a lot better than David Boring, even though this is a much more ambitious book.<br />This was actually the first Clowes that I read, and it was the first third of the book, about him courting and then losing Wanda, that had me absolutely hooked.  I was completely with him during the second third, too, but I started losing it after he kept getting involved with woman after woman, indicating that the love story with Wanda - which had my complete attention and sympathy - was just part of a desire on his part to seek out women with big rears. It made some sort of thematic sense, but Clowes gave Wanda too much character to be just another pair of cheeks and, after she departs, the book seems to move hastily through a whole series of intricately conceived but largely arbitrary adventures, with little human interest.<br />I think if Clowes had committed more time and energy - maybe another forty or fifty pages - to the end of the book, it wouldn't seem like it was rushing towards an ending that sort of came out of nowhere.  And although it lacks the emotional impact of Ghost World, the book still left me with an incredible feeling of loss, even as it seemed to be somewhat redemptive.  <br />(The artwork here, incidentally, is probably his best ever, with every frame showing the marks of care and thought.)	2003-06-29
US	29956171	R3M7I9YJITOVB8	0395860253	883499455	Dog Soldiers	Books	3	13	19	N	N	Disappointing	I'd read a lot about how prescient Stone was about the drug trade and American involvement abroad, so I picked this book up, excited about a literary author who actually seemed interested in getting the reader's blood pumping.  In any case, I was disappointed: I'm not sure how novel this was when it appeared in the 70s, but many of its scenes have become standard cliches of the movies - the torture scene, the bags of drugs, the shootouts in precarious and picturesque locations.  <br />Perhaps it isn't fair to criticize a book for how much it's been imititated, but a genuine work of art shouldn't lose much of its lustre just because of mediocre followers, and I found myself genuinely bored by a great deal of Dog Soldiers.  The only scene that showed the talent of the author was the surreal conversation between the central character and his slightly crazy mother. I haven't read A Flag For Sunrise or any of Stone's other books, but I'd certainly try those before this one.	2003-06-27
US	29956171	R1INWKY6HHSOJ8	0590685600	461773228	Teaching Reading in Middle School (Grades 5 & Up)	Books	3	15	20	N	N	There are much better books	Linda Rief's Seeking Diversity and Nancie Atwell's In The Middle offered a great deal more that was helpful and insightful.  This book had much less content - plenty of big print, lots of pictures and charts - and what was there was rather basic.  Rief's book is better for concrete activities that kids will actually enjoy, and Atwell's book has a novel and solid philosophy that I think will offer more real guidance than any number of handouts on journal formats.  I mainly used the book for some information on books that middle schoolers would like, but honestly other teachers and my own students had much more to tell me.	2003-06-20
US	29956171	RMGCVNREI3GAN	0201484021	328039694	How Children Fail (Classics in Child Development)	Books	5	89	90	N	N	Essential for anyone working with children	I was struggling to teach seventh grade reading when I came across this book.  It had been mentioned in a William Gaddis essay, so I picked it up and I can honestly say that it's changed the way I look at the world.  Like all great books, it says things that seem to always have been under your nose, that always bothered you a little, and says them with such simplicity that you're not sure how you could have missed them.<br />Once Holt's ideas are in your head I assure you that they'll become part of your mental model of the way things work: every time I was in front of my classroom I could see my students reading me for answers, and engaging in a hundred games and subterfuges based on the anxiety caused by the way my school forced me to run things - along, of course, with what I had always assumed education had to be.<br />It bothers me that this book is given to teachers who agree with its observations but declare that the solution is not to create the sort of environment that Holt recommends, but to keep schools exactly the same and just make it harder for kids to fake the answers; to engage in a battle of wits to force them to think; and provide all sorts of unrelated incentives to get the students to try their hardest.  This book forced me to look at how phony most of my teaching was, and I am confident that the solution does not involve putting a slightly new face to the phoniness.	2003-06-20
US	29956171	R19XDMBHNI1QZE	0805058370	439117283	Mason & Dixon: A Novel	Books	4	1	3	N	N	I liked it . . . and then it kept going . . . and then I	liked it some more, and then it kept going. It has passages that are hilarious and moving, and then well, something else happens: something bizarre that's described for a few pages - a glowing Indian, a talking dog - and then disappears, never to be mentioned again. What holds the book together is the wonderfully engaging personalities of Mason and Dixon, but they don't hold it together enough. It's just a stitched together collection of anecdotes, many of them brilliant set pieces but some of them just tiresome, because there's only so many mechanical ducks that can fall from the sky before I start losing my patience. Actually, the duck is great, but still, over 700 pages, not everything can hold one's attention. A picaresque only works if the adventures seem to be building towards something, for example if they keep showing new sides of the characters involved, or have a logic that ties them together that I can't see in Mason & Dixon - like the second half of Don Quixote where all the characters have read the first part, and so on. This book just kept going.	2003-06-13
US	29956171	RUP74BZPJRZOT	0140186913	630320957	Loving; Living; Party Going (Penguin Twentieth-Century Classics)	Books	5	36	41	N	N	Green tackles the big subjects	Have you ever sat and thought, man, I wish someone would write a book about living? And possibly loving? Well, Henry Green has gone out and done just that. I had never thought that a book about going to parties might be necessary, but after reading it I think that Mr. Green has indeed performed a valuable service. This wonderful collection of novels is, quite frankly, a comprehensive exploration, and no new books need be written on any of these subjects.<br />In any case, the writing made my jaw drop in spots, it was so good, and Green way of looking at things is funny and humane while being mercilessly clear-eyed. The only reason I think they've stopped teaching his books in colleges is because they don't have the sort of things one can write papers about: complicated networks of imagery and whatnot that can be dug out of the text and have a title slapped on them. Green's book are too alive to have anything particularly systematic going on in them, while retaining the structure and unity of true works of art. Amazing books, go out and read them.	2003-06-13
US	29956171	R1V6HERIYQOCQF	0226677141	78919434	A Dance to the Music of Time: First Movement	Books	4	5	7	N	N	My first slow dance . . .	was to an REO Speedwagon song in 7th grade, but that is beside the point.  This is an entertaining book: not half as good as Proust, which - if you have some time - will repay your investment tenfold.  The difference, I think, is that in Proust the quest of the narrator was a unifying force across all the pages, and you felt that he was stumbling his way towards something worthwhile - which, after finishing the first volume, I still don't feel.  Despite patches of excellent writing, it has an episodic feel that belongs neither to life nor art: he runs into people, things happen, generalizations are made about human behavior (sometimes the things seem to happen just so the generalization can be made) and the dance continues, but why isn't the music swelling, or at least changing tempo?  And why don't I care when someone else gets divorced or married?  I'll keep reading, certainly, but only for the little wonderful bits: for example, &quot;Being in love is a complicated matter; although anyone who is prepared to pretend that love is a simple, straightforward business is always in a strong position for making conquests.  In general, things are apt to turn out unsatisfactorily for at least one of the parties concerned; and in due course only its most determined devotees remain unwilling to admit that an intimate and affectionate relationship is not necessarily a simple one . . . &quot; And it goes on.  Nicely said.  I'm not a determined devotee, but I'll keep reading.	2003-06-13
US	29956171	R2YIHIG9G8GHH8	0395869463	540961512	The Bookshop	Books	4	2	2	N	N	The ideal book to give to someone locked in a room...	as it can slide easily under most doors, and is an excellent read.  It will become a precisely drawn world to live in for a few hours before devoting yourself to trying to get out of the room again.  The characters were sharply drawn, and the ending grabbed at my throat a little.  My only complaint is the same one I have about Hardy: the author, despite having a keen sense of humor, seems to think that life is inevitably a rather sad affair - which, who knows, maybe it is - but how one dramatizes that inevitability is a different story.  Here the little doomsday machine that the author creates for her beloved people doesn't seem to arise naturally from the personalities of the characters or the general state of their world, but from the author's belief that things just can't work out for people.  In a historical novel like The Blue Flower, the end is already a matter of fact, so no one can accuse her of contriving to scuttle the ship, but here I felt like maybe she had taken an axe down to the hold herself.  A beautiful piece of writing nonetheless.	2003-06-13
US	29956171	RHBWHZITFYH7R	0394710487	377678395	Collected Stories	Books	5	14	16	N	N	The best short story writer in English	There is a line from William Trevor (no stranger to the short story) on the back of the book that I think is highest praise that one writer can give another: \\"without adornment, he simply tells the truth.\\"  <br />We don't demand things so weighty from books anymore, and are probably likely to dismiss a person or a book that promises it, but I think the word at least gets at O'Connor's idea of a short story.  The truth, for him, is a live person on paper, going through a period of his or her life where they understand something about either themselves or the world.  When he taught writing, he insisted that his students write a one-sentence theme for their story: what is it saying, demonstrating - what truth is it getting at?<br />This seems an old-fashioned idea of the story, but nothing about O'Connor's work seems either old-fashioned or excessively schematic - his stories are as alive as writing can be while still having unity and weight, and they carry their truth with humor and humanity.  The Richard Ellman introduction, I'm afraid, misses this completely.  Ellman was a friend of O'Connor's in later life, but I don't think he understands his work very well.  The introduction makes O'Connor sound like some sort of genial provincial, with the primary virtue of his work being a portrait of a vanished society.<br />But no writer of fiction who is just a chronicler can survive: it doesn't matter that today Anna and Karenin could simply divorce.  The book is relevant because Anna and Karenin are both real on the page, as so many of O'Connor's characters are.  Ellman's lack of understanding influences his selection: too many of O'Connor's later less inspired work is here, and many wonders are missing.  Why did he leave off In the Train, for example?  Sadly, this is the only collection that's in print, but most of the great stories are here, and they are inexhaustible.<br />After discovering this book, I immediately went out and read everything of O'Connor's I could find, including a biography, and I copied down a passage that I think shows the way in which he looked at people and the world.  He was writing to a friend who had been estranged from his wife, and was now feeling extreme remorse as she was dying:<br />\\"On occasions like this we all feel guilt and remorse; we all want to turn back time; but even if we were able, things would go on in precisely the same way because the mistakes we make are not in our judgements but in our natures.  It is only when we do violence to our natures that we are justified in our regrets, and neither of us is capable of that.  We are what we are and within our limitiations we have made our efforts.  They may seem puny in the light of eternity but they didn't at the time, and they weren't.\\"<br />This is his truth: to discover people's natures, to see the essential in even the smallest actions, and get across the moments when people see themselves whole.  Read this book: it's one to keep for life.	2003-06-12
US	29956171	R1OGYKU8NT4KCM	0312204094	184001758	Gain	Books	4	6	6	N	N	A living company and a dead woman	I've never read a book anything like this one, and reading it forced me to throw out most of my usual methods of judgment. Most of the human characters, despite obvious effort and even empathy from the author, are ridiculously flimsy. They are carefully observed, and given a consistent group of characteristics, in the hope that this cluster of traits will somehow give them a life that they never succeed in having. The prose is excellent, but it's fussy and shows the marks of being intensely labored over, which makes it even harder to think of the people as genuine instead of words drawns from the mind of a brainy novelist. The dialogue is some of the worst I've ever read in a book of genuine literary merit, and although I applaud Powers his honest effort in trying to capture the conversational rhythms of a Midwestern family, I can honestly say that he missed it by a country mile.<br />But for some reason, this doesn't scuttle the book - the main character, a woman dying of cancer, is never fully real, and neither is her family, and somehow this isn't all that important. Powers fails in most of the things that I usually value in a novel, but succeeds in finding beauty in places where I'd never even thought to look - in places where authors almost never bother to look. The story of the Clare Corporation is one of the most thrilling pieces of storytelling in American literature and I honestly had to fight the urge not to flip past the sections dealing with Laura's struggles, which is an astounding achievement considering that in the hands of a lesser author the Clare sections could easily have read like a textbook. Powers has obviously researched this material exhaustively, but in translating the history into fiction he has given it energy as well as solidity - it vibrates with the enthusiasm he feels for the material. He genuinely feels his way into the skin and blood of a company; he understands the thrill of production and expansion and success, as well as the achievement all of it represents. A couple of reviews I read tagged this as an anti-business book, which just indicates that their perspective is much smaller than Gain's. Powers is too big an author for anything so simplistic; his viewpoint is more subtle and finally much more disturbing, and will stay in your mind long after most of his characters have been forgotten.	2003-06-12
US	29956171	R2Z13QSVG83O6V	0375726349	301023145	The Human Stain: American Trilogy (3)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Bad patches, but the good parts are essential	The long section that describes Coleman's youth, from boxing to the decision to leave his family behind, is one of the miraculously sustained pieces of writing that Roth has ever done.  There is not a single false note, and the imaginative identification is absolutely complete.  This is not a novel about the problem of race in America, but about something that Roth has always been writing about: how to be an individual actor, a free agent, when you are tied inextricably, whether you want to be or not, to a group.<br />Now, I'm not sure how a writer of Roth's talent could throw in parts like the Lester Farley monologues, where the author has clearly not really felt his way into the consciousness of the character, but outlined it with some commonplaces about Vietnam veterans, is beyond me.  I suppose I admire the effort to even try to see what's going on inside the head of such a character - more so, certainly, that his attempt, well, not to get inside Delphine Roux's head, but to create a straw woman to be seen through by the author and his readers.  She isn't taken seriously enough, given enough life, to be effective even as a satire.<br />The book loses a lot of blood when Coleman is gone, but while he is walking through its pages The Human Stain is alive and vital.  Worth your time as very few others are nowadays.	2003-06-12
US	29956171	R18KABB7VEFVW2	1573225142	106716475	The Western Canon: The Books and School of the Ages	Books	3	17	25	N	N	Essays aren't much to shout about - the list has been useful	I discovered this book in high school, and was pleased to find someone who thoughts books were as important and exciting as I did.  He also succeeded in communicating this excitement in a way that few teachers do, and pointed me in the direction of many books that proved to be genuinely great.  But honestly this book is not worth the time it takes to read.  Other than a few rants against multiculturalism, Bloom just picks some masterpiece and says, Man is this a good book.  Then he moves on to another masterpiece: Whoa, this is real good too.  They are useless as either criticism or as a guide to the books he recommends; there is little that is helpful or insightful.  The books he chooses are all classics, and I doubt many people are arguing with him about the fact that they're good.<br />As far as I can tell, most of the books he has written after this are pretty much the same.  The Western Canon is at least more useful because the list at the back contains some good information on translations of choice and other stuff I wouldn't know anything about.  Plus every once in a while I get curious about an author or a book that I'm unfamiliar with, and discover something wonderful.  Maybe xerox the list, but otherwise save your time for those books of the ages instead of The Western Canon.	2003-06-12
US	29956171	RNOYBZ0IQU5W	0815604505	402206957	An Only Child (Irish Studies)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Thank god someone reissued this book	O'Connor is rightly famous mostly for his short stories, but his criticism - both The Lonely Voice and A Mirror In the Roadway - along with this volume of his memoirs, well, they're all just really good.  I found this book in a library many years ago and there are a hundred scenes that still spring instantly to life, and sentences that are always going to be part of how I look at the world.  He betrays his greatest talent in the fact that the book reads like a collection of wonderful chapters rather than a coherent whole, but each is filled with the spirit of a generous, funny, humane man, one of those rare authors that you wish you could hang out with.  The people that assure that books keep getting read seem to be forgetting about O'Connor a little, but the pages they keep alive rarely seem to stay in the blood and brain like his do.	2003-06-12
