US	30095257	R3KIQ6RHU7S2T4	0972932933	17013041	Collecting Candace	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Not for the Faint of Heart	If reading about really twisted people just isn't your cup of hemlock, this probably isn't the book for you. In fact, this tale is so dark you may need to turn on extra lights.<br /><br />But as a trip into the warped psyche of a pair of sociopaths with no redeeming social value whatever, COLLECTING CANDACE is a brilliant piece of fiction. That Ms. Brooks can keep you reading to the end despite the fact her characters make you want to run and shower every so often is testimony to both her skill as a writer and the human fascination with anyone whose mindset is so totally alien we find it hard to believe we share the same species.<br /><br />There's no redemption here, no remorse, no rescue. Candace and her companion are no one you'd want to invite over to dinner, unless you have a serious death wish. Yet there is at the same time something fatally fascinating about them--the same fascination that draws us to watch as the firemen pull the bloody bodies from the twisted wreckage.<br /><br />It's a good thing this book is short, because you will not want to put it down.	2005-02-07
US	30095257	RTODAGPM8JTMT	1589801490	967687286	Justin Potemkin and the 500-Mile Race	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Who knew?	I'm willing to bet that most people think the Indy 500 was organized by car people. Shows what they know.<br /><br />Any addition to Peter Welling's delightful series of picture books is welcome, and his whimsical story of how a frustrated Russian hare manages to break a tsarist version of the Babe's Curse is no exception. Colorfully illustrated by the author, it contains enough puns, wordplay and his signature language lessons to entertain tots, teens and anyone else.<br /><br />Enjoy!	2005-02-07
US	30095257	R3S7UQVFGW95H9	0743466799	909395546	Verse of the Vampyre: A Poetic Death Mystery	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A Cozy Crime for Dracula Buffs	Diana Killian's latest novel featuring schoolteacher and literary scholar Grace Hollister takes on vampires and little theater, and has a wonderful time with both. Her thoroughly intriguing mystery and wonderfully diverse characters turn what could be just another cozy into a complex yet painless study of human nature.<br /><br />That Grace Hollister is relatively free of the galloping neuroses and/or quaint hobbies that seem to be required of mysteries these days is an added pleasure. Yes, she has problems, but they never intrude on the main story enough to become irritating, which can't be said about some others in the genre.<br /><br />So, if you haven't met Grace, this is a fine introduction. If you have, you already know why it's worth picking up a copy of her new adventure.	2005-02-07
US	30095257	RZLJP0O2YUKDI	1930754469	765704282	Designed to Kill	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A PI for the Older Generation	This sophomore mystery novel has a good many things to recommend it, not the least of which is the main character. Greg McKenzie is refreshing in an era when the standard for mysteries seems to be to burden the main characters with as many neuroses and life crises as possible. McKenzie's deepest angst is his effort to quit smoking.<br /><br />Mr. Campbell's McKenzie is a retired Air Force investigator who is finding retirement just a bit of a bore. Well, except for that little incident in Israel that left his wife with a bad shoulder, but that was a tale for another time.<br /><br />In this installment, McKenzie is asked by a close friend to look into the apparent suicide of the friend's son, an up-and-coming young engineer-architect who seemed to be on the way to fame and fortune. Until a balcony on a building he designed collapsed, killing several people. It was despondency over that, according to the local constabulary on Perdido Key, that led him to shoot himself.<br /><br />But neither Greg McKenzie nor the young man's family can believe he would have reacted that way. It wasn't his style. So McKenzie and his wife Jill travel to their own condo on the key, where the deceased had been living, to see what can be learned. The more they learn, the more dangerous life becomes.<br /><br />This book seems more a logic puzzle than a mystery as one reads-until the end. That's just one of the things that makes it a sure-fire delight for anyone who likes lots of suspense and characters who are a lot like the people next door. There's a wonderful solidity in both Greg and Jill, a constant sense that you've actually met them somewhere and just can't recall where it was. Unlike many cozies, which this technically is, the reader has no difficulty envisioning Greg confronting criminals and recalcitrant witnesses. These are honest, down-to-earth, church-going folks who just happen to end up in messes most people don't-and who handle it as one suspects they handle any other mess, with steady confidence and practical wisdom.<br /><br />Boomers in particular are going to enjoy this book, simply because Greg and Jill are fellow travelers whose life experiences we can share because we were there. That, however, needn't preclude younger readers from enjoying the book, which is filled with vivid and creative imagery as well as demonstrating superb writing skills. Meet the McKenzies-you'll be better for the experience.her mess, with steady confidence and practical wisdom. <br /> <br />Boomers in particular are going to enjoy this book, simply because Greg and Jill are fellow travelers whose life experiences we can share because we were there. That, however, needn't preclude younger readers from enjoying the book, which is filled with vivid and creative imagery as well as demonstrating superb writing skills. Meet the McKenzies-you'll be better for the experience.	2004-09-25
US	30095257	R1I2FXJK0HOY2G	1401030270	743105764	The Pendulum's Path	Books	5	2	2	N	N	It's Never too Late to Grow UP	How we define ourselves influences how we interact with others and what directions we take when choosing where we will journey in life. In Mr. Shields's excellent and compelling first novel, his protagonist's discovery destabilizes his entire definition of who he is. The author avoids the obvious: Tom Lewis is no drama king who dives headlong into an abyss of despair. Rather, he is a man any reader can identify with as he juggles responsibilities that seem to multiply just when he is least in a position to deal with them.<br /><br />It is this proliferation of crises that is the main driving force behind his story, and it works beautifully. The pacing and the reader's involvement with the character are so strong it is all but impossible to put the book down. Each event arises naturally from the groundwork Mr. Shields has made in the beginning, so there is never any sense of a conflict's being contrived or a reaction's being unmotivated.<br /><br />All of the characters have that deep, vibrant humanity that arouses a sense of recognition-we know these people, or wish we did.<br /><br />All this leads to an ending that grabs the reader by the throat and dares one to stop before the final resolution. The unspoken message is that even the worst possible life events can have meaning, depending on the choices we make when coping with them. Tom Lewis's response to his crisis is composed of equal parts confrontation and acceptance-a balanced reaction that is sharply reflected in the book's climax.<br /><br />Dave Shields has written an emotionally rich book that proves coming-of-age is not an adolescent phenomenon, and does it with charm and optimism that is often lacking in a time when cynicism too often prevails.	2004-09-25
US	30095257	R1WB3Y5Q23FOQ4	1564142744	905440237	Punctuation Plain & Simple (Plain and Simple Series)	Books	5	17	17	N	N	A superb quick reference	I purchased a copy of this book because I needed something easier to use than my Prentice Hall Handbook for Writers to double check during the copyediting process. It has been a godsend. The rules are presented in a clear and easy to understand manner and the examples are excellent. This is a must-have for any writer, editor, or student.	2004-07-28
US	30095257	R34B8MBEVH1GUN	1891386360	945196262	Bittersweet Christmas	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Young Man Meets Mortality	Writer L.D. Clark has more than a touch of the mystic about him, and it glows between the lines of this handsome coming-of-age novella.<br />The protagonist, 15-year-old Bruce, as young people that age often do, is fascinated by the story of his great-uncle, Jerome, who vanished after being acquitted of murdering the twin brother he killed during a quarrel over a young woman. Now, after having all but been given up for dead, Jerome has wired he will attend the annual Christmas gathering at the family homestead after an absence of half a century.<br />What follows is a penetrating and tightly controlled story of how one young man has his first serious brush with mortality and adulthood, told without any hint of moralizing. Mr. Clark has captured the flow of family interaction with consummate skill, with all its eddies and undercurrents. He also hasn't forgotten what it's like to be a boy trembling on the knife edge of becoming a man, and his portrait of Bruce is both empathetic and unblinking.<br />There is a bit of a resemblance between BITTERSWEET CHRISTMAS and James Agee's compelling A DEATH IN THE FAMILY as the members of the extended Coldthorpe family deal first with the impending arrival and then the sudden death of the clan's notorious black sheep. The contrast between the dark past and the gaiety of a family holiday celebration is deftly balanced, flavored with a hint of ghostly mystery that Mr. Clark wisely allows to go unresolved.<br />This is a superb little tale, full of all the things that make life the rich experience it is and peopled by a family that embodies all the contradictions such a unit can. It is a perfect gift for a reader, at Christmas or any other season.	2003-12-15
US	30095257	R3KG9ZY2HY3TJN	0312301758	797164449	The Queene's Christmas (Elizabeth I Mysteries, Book 6)	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Wassail! Christmas in Merry Olde England Makes Good Reading	Karen Harper's historical mystery series has two things to recommend it, for me, at least. First is the setting: I have always been fascinated by Elizabeth I, a woman who not only survived as a single woman in a man's world where such a state was considered a sign of witchcraft but who built the foundations of an empire that survived her by two centuries. The second is Ms. Harper's talent, which brings both the woman and the time to vivid life, and adds in a mystery that makes the best use of both.<br />This book doesn't disappoint. All the favorite characters are there: Meg and Ned and Jenks, caught in a love triangle the resolution of which Ms. Harper is drawing out with tantalizing slowness. Harry Carew and William Cecil complete the historical elements of Her Majesty's Privy Plot Council. Dear Kat Ashley, who has been Elizabeth's support for most of her life, is failing, and it is a credit to Ms. Harper's skill with characters that we share in the queen's sadness at the impending loss of her beloved companion.<br />As for the mystery, it is once again wrapped in the inevitable politics that were as much a part of Elizabeth's life as breathing, and if the outcome and final resolution seem somewhat anticlimactic, that in no way detracts from the reader's enjoyment. THE QUEENE'S CHRISTMAS, like all the Elizabethan Mysteries, is as much to be read for its ability to draw one into an earlier time and place, and for the true history lover that's almost more than enough.	2003-12-07
US	30095257	R3PBEO4ZPG0D3U	1593440227	990069286	Double Endorsement	Books	3	5	7	N	N	A Series with Potential	There is a tinge of MOONLIGHTING about this second novel in Mr. McAleer's PI series, the result of introducing a blond bombshell who at first glance appears to personify the cliche. Whether Sophia Blossom will turn out in subsequent installments to be more than she appears remains to be seen.<br />This book makes no pretense of being anything other than entertainment. The dialogue is snappy and silly and lots of fun, the mystery sufficiently convoluted and the pacing adequate to keep the reader engaged. No one wallows in despair or self-analysis, and the characters are as quirky as this kind of fiction requires.<br />The main drawback of the work is that it definitely would have benefited from the services of a competent editor. Various misspellings and grammar stumbles aside, the plot gapes in several places. A partial explanation of one such--the question of how our hero and his intrepid assistant managed to masquerade as grad students--does arise later but not in a way that is satisfactory. It certainly doesn't speak well of James Hilton's talent for subterfuge.<br />This series has considerable potential, as Mr. McAleer has a deft hand with the kind of dialogue that makes it work. His characters are amusing, and his economical writing style doesn't bog the reader down. Hopefully, he'll find a good editor for book three.	2003-12-04
US	30095257	R2I8NWESWHUKF6	0312304927	955786668	Barbados Heat	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A Fun Book to Watch	This was my introduction to Mr. Bruns's work, and a most enjoyable one.<br />BARBADOS HEAT is what I've dubbed a &quot;movie book.&quot; The pleasure in reading it has more to do with settling back to enjoy the action and the characters and the scenery without demanding to be anything more than entertained than with any consideration of inspiring philosophical debate. Certainly, anyone with a modicum of deductive reasoning will have figured out who killed the Congressman long before the final dramatic confrontation, so the mystery isn't its strong point. What makes this book a winner is that getting there is so much fun.<br />Mr. Bruns doesn't waste words, and his lean style is perfect for his material. His protagonist, while certainly carrying a fair load of angst, doesn't wallow in it, which might lead the less-discerning to suppose he is, thereby, shallow. However, there are just enough hints dropped throughout to eliminate that possibility. Mick Sever might not be a candidate for bodhisatva, but he has more depth than he might like those around him to know about.<br />For pure entertainment and reading pleasure, BARBADOS HEAT is a perfect choice.	2003-12-03
US	30095257	R1M9EDKT3XN0L2	0967197872	863720493	Great Spirit Horse	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A Delightful Journey into Native American Folklore	Native American tradition says that when a white buffalo calf is born and the Great Spirit Horse of the plains return, they will experience a rebirth of their culture and traditions. The first of these events occurred several years ago, and folklorist and storyteller Linda Little Wolf believes the second has as well in the form of her companion, a blue-eyed Tobiano paint named Enough Stuff.<br />To celebrate this, she has written a charming version of the story of Sunka Wakan, the Great Spirit Horse, for young readers. Her protagonist is an ugly-duckling foal who flees the scorn of his herd-fellows and takes refuge in the Black Hills, where he learns he has a proud and important destiny.<br />Although Ms. Little Wolf occasionally overdoes the anthropomorphism of her equine cast, she has down a superb job of making this traditional story both educational and entertaining. The book is a fine introduction to Native American folklore and traditions for both the youngsters it is intended for and their parents. For certain, this gently amusing book will appeal to horselovers of all ages.<br />She has subtitled her book \\"Otoka,\\" which is a Lakota word for \\"beginning.\\" One hopes this means there will be more tales like this one-and the quality of this first book makes that something to be eagerly anticipated.	2003-11-25
US	30095257	R1LBIFIQU0Q0RU	1591130956	469250059	Caleb's Daughter	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Biblical History from the Distaff Side	Books like THE RED TENT have sparked an interest in works based in Biblical settings that focus on women rather than their famous male leaders. Kay Flowers has chosen to focus her novella on the years just before and those that followed the entry of the Children of Israel into their land of milk and honey. Her protagonist, Achsah, is the only daughter of Caleb, one of Moses's greatest generals.<br />The child of Caleb's middle age, Achsah is not surprisingly more than a little spoiled. Throughout many of her early years, she is determined to have her own way, by manipulation and stealth when direct means fail-those direct means usually entailing a tantrum of one degree or another.<br />As time and life take their toll, however, Achsah comes not just to maturity but to a deep faith in the god of Israel, a faith that sustains her when tragedy and danger impinge.<br />Although clearly the work of a talented storyteller and likely to appeal greatly to younger readers, the unfortunate brevity of Ms. Flowers's work leaves the reader, especially one who has an interest in the historical and cultural background, feeling unsatisfied. One closes the book with the sense it was meant more as a morality tale than an historical one, a lesson in the importance of faith and in caring for others. The plot evolves as a series of episodes in Achsah's life, beginning with her as a young child and ending with her in the twilight years. Once she has had her moment of epiphany, what follows is little more than a denouement that goes on too long.<br />The author's attempt to justify the slaughter of innocents-according to the messages delivered from God via Moses and Joshua, the Israelites were to exterminate everyone living in their \\"promised land\\"-also lacks force. No matter how perverse the Canaanites' religious and social practices may have been, the killing of children simply doesn't quite fit with the concept of an all-loving god, and one senses the author wrestling with that issue, unable to avoid it yet unable to adequately deal with it, either.<br />Nevertheless, CALEB'S DAUGHTER is an excellent choice for young readers both for its nicely drawn details of the Israelite culture and the subtle lesson it contains. Christian parents looking for first-class reading material for their older middle-schoolers and younger teens will find it an excellent addition to their libraries.unable to avoid it yet unable to adequately deal with it, either.<br />Nevertheless, CALEB'S DAUGHTER is an excellent choice for young readers both for its nicely drawn details of the Israelite culture and the subtle lesson it contains. Christian parents looking for first-class reading material for their older middle-schoolers and younger teens will find it an excellent addition to their libraries.	2003-11-25
US	30095257	R1WDUPXJTW0XRT	1932234519	890015353	The Leopard Mask (The Guin Saga, Book 1)	Books	5	12	15	N	N	Sword and Sorcery at Its Finest	In 1979, Kaoru Kurimoto wrote the first of what was planned as a 100-episode fantasy series. Now, with 86 of those in print, the Guin Saga is a Japanese bestsller, and thanks to Vertical Publishing US fans will be able to find out what the excitement is about.<br />Anyone partial to heroic sword-and-sorcery is a shoo-in to like THE LEOPARD MASK, the first of five books in the saga to be reprinted. However, there is a richness of both story and world-building that sets this book above simple action adventure and leaves the reader eager for the next installment.<br />Fourteen-year-old royal twins Rinda and Remus are hiding in a dangerous haunted marsh from the minions of the evil Vlad, Duke of Mongauli. Vlad has destroyed their own country and exterminated their family, but the valiant Rinda is determined she and her brother will one day regain what they've lost.<br />They are rescued from a patrol of Vlad's soldiers by a mysterious and powerful warrior whose head is eerily encased in a metal mask shaped like a leopard. Other than his name-Guin-he remembers nothing, not where he comes from or how he acquired the mask. When, despite his efforts, he and the twins become prisoners in Vlad's fortress, they discover there is a greater evil behind the savage warlord than they could ever have imagined.<br />One might describe this book as literary anime, for it contains many of the elements of both that and manga. It has the feisty young heroine, a thoroughly perverse villain and a mighty hero who vanquishes overwhelming odds despite his own troubles. The complex plot, which hints at difficulties to come, never goes beyond the boundaries of disbelief, and the dangers the twins and their protector face are as often psychological as physical.<br />There is nothing simplistic about the characters, either. Although her brother is the heir, it is Rinda who has all the mystical powers that are supposed to go with that position, and Remus is understandably jealous of that despite his clear devotion to her. Worse, he perceives his lack of ability as weakness, and shrinks from danger his sister confronts headlong.<br />As for Guin, he is no mindless mass of muscle. There are emotional depths to him that are barely skimmed in this first book but which are clear nevertheless. It is the process of unearthing them, along with his missing history, that makes it difficult to wait for the second episode.<br />This same economy of revelation applies to the world Ms. Kurimoto has created, a richly modeled place full of demons and ghosts, gods and monsters, dark towers and hidden treasures. She implies an underlying complex mythology, tastes of which she doles out just often enough to whet the appetite.<br />Suitable for anyone old enough to read and appreciate a terrific imagination, THE LEOPARD MASK is a marvelous introduction to a series that has swept Japan like Robert Jordan's Wheel of Time series has the US-and for far better reason. This is basic storytelling at its finest, and could even give Harry Potter a run for his wand.is clear devotion to her. Worse, he perceives his lack of ability as weakness, and shrinks from danger his sister confronts headlong.<br />As for Guin, he is no mindless mass of muscle. There are emotional depths to him that are barely skimmed in this first book but which are clear nevertheless. It is the process of unearthing them, along with his missing history, that makes it difficult to wait for the second episode.<br />This same economy of revelation applies to the world Ms. Kurimoto has created, a richly modeled place full of demons and ghosts, gods and monsters, dark towers and hidden treasures. She implies an underlying complex mythology, tastes of which she doles out just often enough to whet the appetite.<br />Suitable for anyone old enough to read and appreciate a terrific imagination, THE LEOPARD MASK is a marvelous introduction to a series that has swept Japan like Robert Jordan's Wheel of Time series has the US-and for far better reason. This is basic storytelling at its finest, and could even give Harry Potter a run for his wand.	2003-11-25
US	30095257	R37435UM63NF1J	0345451066	145318585	Sheet Music	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Music of the Soul	Griefstricken over the death of her beloved mother and outraged at the apparent indifference to it of her father and sister, Justine Pagett fled to Paris. There, she became noted for her revealing interviews.<br />However, her last interview threatens to destroy her career when she uses pillow talk information to expose her lover, a noted chef, as a thief who stole his teacher's secrets. To salvage her career, she obtains permission to interview a famous woman composer/conductor, Sophie DeLeon, who has become a music legend. Yet even that is fraught with perils both personal and professional. One of those she needs to discuss her subject with is DeLeon's former prot&eacute;g&eacute; Austin Bell-who was once Justine's lover as well. In fact, he is the one man who was able to touch her emotionally, for she has kept her deepest feelings locked away to avoid pain.<br />But someone is sending Justine threatening email messages warning her to drop the project; and the day she is finally to meet Sophie, the composer vanishes. As the mystery unfolds, Justine is caught in a vortex of secrets and emotional challenges that threatens to shatter more than her career.<br />As with all Ms. Rose's books, SHEET MUSIC is at once a suspense-riddled tale of deception and danger and a fascinating exploration of the dark cellars of the human psyche. Justine Pagett is obsessed with control, convinced by her childhood observations that to expose oneself emotionally to another, especially in the name of love, is to be mortally wounded. As she delves into the life of Sophie DeLeon, she is forced to confront her own perceptions and the interpretations she has placed on them.<br />Tightly written, filled with exquisite details that surround the reader with a sensual setting that is almost palpable and peopled with characters whose complexities give them life even when they are at their most extreme, M.J. Rose's newest is a fitting addition to her growing shelf of psychologically rich fiction. Her books are not comfortable to read, but they are never dull.e not comfortable to read, but they are never dull.	2003-11-25
US	30095257	R2CNYKI1ABXZED	1558853987	494332743	Happy Birthday Jesus	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Compelling and Frightening	There are many reasons offered trying to explain why people commit crimes, particularly those of particular savagery. Sometimes, there is in fact a physical reason, such as the brain tumor that drove Charles Whitman and his guns into the University of Texas tower in 1966. Abused children, studies say, often grow up to be violent, abusive adults. Innate tendencies-an inborn inability to empathize with other. Social immaturity-emotional ten-year-olds in adult bodies.<br />In his fictional biography of a young man growing up in the early years of the 20th century to become a vicious killer, Ronald L. Ruiz doesn't posit any theories. Rather, he takes us into Jesus's world and lets us ponder for ourselves which factors in his life, had they been changed, might have prevented his plunge into darkness.<br />Orphaned as a toddler, Jesus is raised by his fanatically religious grandmother, his mother's mother, a woman who years for sainthood. She detests him, based on an ironic internecine bigotry that equates particular physical characteristics such as lighter complexion with superiority. There are other dynamics involved, of course, including her daughter's choice of a husband she deemed unsuitable. Her rage and contempt are expressed in physical and emotionally abusive punishment, including forcing the boy to lie in a \\"crib\\" for hours clad only in a diaper.<br />Stirred into this stew is religion: the tenets of a church with shepherds who depend on guilt and terror to keep the sheep in line. The endless sermons on sin and its eternal consequences, poured into the mind of a child already convinced of his unworthiness, lead Jesus to decide nothing he does really matters since he is already condemned.<br />In any case, the young Jesus grows up confronted by daily, unremitting oppression, a kind of Chinese water torture of humiliation, prejudice and contempt that fills him with seething rage. Eventually, that rage explodes in a moment of vicious violence, and sets him on a path from which there is really no escape.<br />Mr. Ruiz presents his protagonist's life with almost scientific detachment, which makes the impact of it all the more vivid. He neither condemns nor seeks sympathy for Jesus, allowing the reader to draw his or her own conclusions as to where-and whether-his descent might have been stopped. There is ample blame to go around in this dark tale of the destruction of a human soul, although a fair share of it must be assumed by a criminal justice system that is more criminal than just.<br />HAPPY BIRTHDAY JESUS is an unrelenting look into the making of a killer, the history of a soul lost almost from the moment of birth. It is a frightening and at times painfully ironic lesson in the consequences of extremism and neglect and the crippling effects of bigotry no matter what the source. Mr. Ruiz does not ask for sympathy for his damaged protagonist, adding a plot thread that suggests such sympathy is as harmful in its way as the abuse Jesus suffers. This is not a rallying cry for reform but a revelation of truths too many would prefer to ignore: that the appearance of good isn't the same as its real existence, that the responsibility for each human life belongs to all of us, that morality lies not in what one thinks or says but what one does.h from which there is really no escape.<br />Mr. Ruiz presents his protagonist's life with almost scientific detachment, which makes the impact of it all the more vivid. He neither condemns nor seeks sympathy for Jesus, allowing the reader to draw his or her own conclusions as to where-and whether-his descent might have been stopped. There is ample blame to go around in this dark tale of the destruction of a human soul, although a fair share of it must be assumed by a criminal justice system that is more criminal than just.<br />HAPPY BIRTHDAY JESUS is an unrelenting look into the making of a killer, the history of a soul lost almost from the moment of birth. It is a frightening and at times painfully ironic lesson in the consequences of extremism and neglect and the crippling effects of bigotry no matter what the source. Mr. Ruiz does not ask for sympathy for his damaged protagonist, adding a plot thread that suggests such sympathy is as harmful in its way as the abuse Jesus suffers. This is not a rallying cry for reform but a revelation of truths too many would prefer to ignore: that the appearance of good isn't the same as its real existence, that the responsibility for each human life belongs to all of us, that morality lies not in what one thinks or says but what one does.	2003-11-25
US	30095257	R1GFSCLDJ08EV2	0595185908	643699743	Toughest Battle	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Solid Storytelling	In this sequel to her debut novel SMALL SACRIFICES, Regina Pride follows her protagonist Brian Clark as he returns home to Akron, Ohio, seeking to repair the damage he caused with his abrupt flight five years earlier. Newly sober after a year in treatment, he wants most of all to win back his former fianc&eacute;e Pam and become a real father to their daughter Latoya.<br />Given all that has happened in those five years, this project would be a difficult challenge all by itself. In Brians case, there are people who not only want him to fail but will go to whatever lengths necessary to guarantee it.<br />It is to Ms. Prides credit that one need not have read her first book to enjoy this one. She begins by providing a moderately well-handled recap of the past, only occasionally stumbling by having characters telling one another things they already know. There are other, mostly mechanical, problems a good editor would have helped her fix, but on the whole they arent sufficiently intrusive to be a nuisance.<br />Compelling characters are one reason for this. Although they are not particular unique, they are solidly drawn, and their very familiarity is an asset. That they are all clearly middle class makes it easier to identify with them and their problems than it is with, say, the poor rich in a Danielle Steele opus.<br />Inarguably, this book is the equivalent of daytime drama, but the solid, no-nonsense writing and excellent pacing keep it from falling too deeply into predictability. One is reminded of the best of the soaps of the sixties and seventies, before they became saturated with glamour, glitz and ever more improbable plots.<br />One element that is less than successful, however, are the sex scenes. When they arent repetitive they have a rather off-putting chemical flavor that makes them seem gratuitous. It almost seems as though Ms. Pride isnt quite comfortable writing them but felt her choice of genre required them. In fact, the book wouldnt have suffered a bit had she instead opted to fade to black at appropriate moments.<br />Nevertheless, TOUGHEST BATTLE is a worthy and fully entertaining sophomore effort readers of contemporary romance are certain to enjoy.ldnt have suffered a bit had she instead opted to fade to black at appropriate moments.<br />Nevertheless, TOUGHEST BATTLE is a worthy and fully entertaining sophomore effort readers of contemporary romance are certain to enjoy.	2003-11-25
US	30095257	R2NQ3LZ0ER0UDD	0938317288	213733188	Keepers Of The Earth (Hell Yes, Texas Women's Series)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Going West to Eden	Since ancient times, the serpent has been a symbol of fertility, wisdom and, when depicted devouring its own tail, eternity. So, Laverne Harrell Clark's choice of it as an integral element of her story of a small town in central Texas in the middle of the oil boom is likely no accident.<br />Though not without flaw, this book is an insightful look into the lives of a family that has, like many in the post-1950's era, abandoned its rural heritage. When Sill Munday decides to restore the decaying farmhouse he left after his wife's death, the one his family had occupied for generations, he does so less to keep the building than to reconnect the people whose lives were once part of it. When his plan is, to some degree, challenged by other family members--his brother, Manny--who smell wealth in the possibility that oil lies under the family acres, the constant battle between roots and progress arises once again.<br />The secondary theme of the ancient hoodoo man, Cefus Jenkins, and HIS fight to preserve the earth against the invasion of the oil drills for the coachwhip snakes swarming on the Munday land, becomes then a symbol of the inner struggle of the Munday family not just to reclaim their heritage and their past but to discover themselves in the process. The journey, as with all such, travels through pain, madness and death to a triumph that may at first seem trivial yet which has implications far beyond the lives of these innocents.<br />For T.C. and Silva Lou and Vi and Cefus are innocents, living each day without any real concern for self-analysis. Life may not be perfect but, until greed poisons it, has carried them along without any serious difficulty. It is greed that brings the knowledge of true good and evil into their garden and, as always, drives them from its safety and comfort with a flaming sword.<br />Ms. Clark, however, isn't content with smug similes. With consummate optimism, she insists that it is possible to return to Eden, at least in part, provided one is willing to accept the price demanded for it, the price of self-discovery. There is a lesson to be learned in this parable of loss and redemption, one that would have been less powerful had she chosen to populate her book with anyone other than the earthy, simple working folk she renders so well one is certain one had to have known them once.<br />KEEPERS OF THE EARTH will likely appeal most deeply to those who know the world and time in which it is set, but its lesson is unquestionably universal. At a time when more and more people are seeking knowledge of their heritage, it will provide a small, bright flame of hope that you can, in fact, go home again.ded one is willing to accept the price demanded for it, the price of self-discovery. There is a lesson to be learned in this parable of loss and redemption, one that would have been less powerful had she chosen to populate her book with anyone other than the earthy, simple working folk she renders so well one is certain one had to have known them once.<br />KEEPERS OF THE EARTH will likely appeal most deeply to those who know the world and time in which it is set, but its lesson is unquestionably universal. At a time when more and more people are seeking knowledge of their heritage, it will provide a small, bright flame of hope that you can, in fact, go home again.	2003-11-25
US	30095257	R1KTZ0Y2TT6FBD	0553580078	119744907	The Years of Rice and Salt	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Succeeds Beautifully Despite the Lectures	The title of Kim Stanley Robinson's current work, recently released in mass market paperback, refers to an old Chinese list of the stages of a woman's life. The years of rice and salt are that period between childbearing and old age when one's knowledge and wisdom mature, preparing one to guide succeeding generations.<br />Mr. Robinson's characters, however, pursue their wisdom not across one life but many. They are members of a \\"jati,\\" a sort of family of souls who reincarnate together as they travel the rugged road to enlightenment. He places them in an alternate historical context in which Christian civilization has been wiped out by the Black Death, to be replaced by the world of Islam. However, the Muslims still have a major rival to total world domination-the Chinese empire, and it is the teetering balance of power between these two that serves as the backdrop for his story.<br />The book focuses on two main souls. The first arrives as Bold, a captain of Temur the Lame who is banished from his people for having entered a plague-decimated city. Wandering westward, he is eventually captured by Muslim sailors, who sell him into slavery to the Chinese. One of his fellow travelers is a 12-year-old African boy, Kyu, who is brutally castrated by his new masters.<br />The pair then journeys across time, space and dimensions as Mr. Robinson explores the nature of the concept of inevitability. Reincarnation is, in most of its variations, subject to strict, immutable rules the essence of which is that one's actions in one life determine one's situation in the next. Yet what if, he ponders, a soul were to rebel against those strictures-and against the other belief of afterlife existence that the gods will punish those who disobey divine dictates?<br />Woven around this esoteric question is a more mundane one. Much of the knowledge that brought Europe out of the Dark Ages came from the Islamic world, including writings from antiquity that were suppressed as pagan and heretical by the Roman Catholic Church. If that knowledge had been readily available to inquiring minds, might modern technology have arisen sooner?<br />Finally, the inevitable discussion of the relationship between religion and science adds a third layer to this complex story that spans centuries and cultures.<br />This is a rich and richly written epic that raises more than a few important issues for discussion. The detailed development of this alternate world is firmly and delightfully extrapolated, and there is a wicked iron in having the culture of medieval Europe come to be the focus of speculation by archaeologists who have no real means of grasping the underlying motivations for many of its elements.<br />What this reader could have lived without were the more than a little mind-numbing lectures on the forces of history and historical imperatives that grew longer and more frequent as the end of the book approached. The action of the plot is sufficient to bring these issues to mind, and giving characters summations didn't enhance that. Those intelligent enough to get the point don't need them, and those who miss the point will likely just skim over them.<br />Nevertheless, THE YEARS OF RICE AND SALT is a complex and masterfully constructed speculation on what might have been, populated with characters whose gradual spiritual growth is as important and element as the development of their world. For those whose taste runs to something a bit more substantial than SF Lite, it's a definite must-have.ical by the Roman Catholic Church. If that knowledge had been readily available to inquiring minds, might modern technology have arisen sooner?<br />Finally, the inevitable discussion of the relationship between religion and science adds a third layer to this complex story that spans centuries and cultures.<br />This is a rich and richly written epic that raises more than a few important issues for discussion. The detailed development of this alternate world is firmly and delightfully extrapolated, and there is a wicked iron in having the culture of medieval Europe come to be the focus of speculation by archaeologists who have no real means of grasping the underlying motivations for many of its elements.<br />What this reader could have lived without were the more than a little mind-numbing lectures on the forces of history and historical imperatives that grew longer and more frequent as the end of the book approached. The action of the plot is sufficient to bring these issues to mind, and giving characters summations didn't enhance that. Those intelligent enough to get the point don't need them, and those who miss the point will likely just skim over them.<br />Nevertheless, THE YEARS OF RICE AND SALT is a complex and masterfully constructed speculation on what might have been, populated with characters whose gradual spiritual growth is as important and element as the development of their world. For those whose taste runs to something a bit more substantial than SF Lite, it's a definite must-have.	2003-11-25
US	30095257	R2XQWJ8Y5F2KUA	0312309139	758693747	Die Laughing (Daisy Dalrymple Mysteries, No. 12)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Delightfully British	Newly wed to the rather longsuffering Chief Inspector Alex Fletcher, the Hon. Daisy Dalrymple is coping with a disapproving mother-in-law and a nagging toothache. Since at least one of those is repairable, she sets off for a dental appointment only to have her usual luck prevail. The dentist is discovered stone dead in his chair, the victim of an overdose of nitrous oxide.<br />Although his wife, who is with Daisy when she finds the body, assumes the death was a suicide, Daisy notices some significant signs that suggest otherwise. Neither she nor Alex is surprised when it turns out the good doctor is a victim of foul play. So, who is the most likely culprit? The unfaithful wife who is pregnant with her lover's child? Her lover, who had been told the affair was over? The dentist's own lover, who had been informed of the same? Her bad-tempered former military husband? Talk about an embarrassment of riches...<br />The Daisy Dalrymple series, set in the years following the first World War, are the sort of mysteries that these days get overshadowed by the Hannibal Lecters and Gary Sonejis. For those who just want to be entertained by amusing characters, scintillating dialogue and a good solid puzzle to unravel, that is a shame. DIE LAUGHING is not only delightfully British but has a marvelous hint of farce throughout that makes the reader wish he or she could jump right into the fun. It isn't difficult at all to envision the action taking place on  a stage or a movie screen-perhaps with Emma Thompson and Hugh Grant as Daisy and Alex.<br />What's even better-and something that is all-too-often missing in angst-ridden modern mystery series obsessed with serial killers-is that Ms. Dunn provides all the hints and information necessary for the reader to solve the mystery and identify the culprit. Half the fun of reading this latest installment is finding out if you're right.	2003-11-25
US	30095257	R7IGELLMIPVTP	1553165705	738683467	Blood Jaguar	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Past and Present Weave a Heart-pumping Adventure	Allan Serafino has a marvelous gift for bringing the vivid country in which he has sent his story of murder and time travel. Not just the mental eye but all the other senses are engaged as he describes the bustling Mexican bazaar, the dense tropical jungle-and scenes from a time long gone from memory. One can smell the incense and leafmold, hear the screech of the monkeys and the pounding ceremonial drums, feel the steamy humidity and the sting of mosquitoes, see the brilliant patchwork of tropical blooms and the shadowy figures of ancient warriors long dead.<br />The protagonist, Hugh Falkins, is a young man teetering on the edge of adulthood whose impulsive decision to run from what he prefers not to face only forces him to confront a situation he could never have imagined. Mr. Serafino skillfully conveys Hugh's sense of isolation, his sense that he lacks a place that is securely his own. His search for himself slowly unfolds as he faces danger, death and events that take him far beyond anything he could ever have imagined.<br />The pacing of this well-researched adventure is compelling and filled with more than enough plot twists to entertain readers of any age. The cast of characters are varied and all solidly defined, with most of them rarely ending up being who they were thought to be. And, as if artifact thieves and attempted murder weren't enough, the action is further complicated by the addition of an ongoing battle between the Mexican army and Guatemalan rebels.<br />This is a superb adventure-based coming-of-age novel with all the necessary ingredients to keep readers' minds off alternative forms of entertainment for the duration.	2003-10-19
US	30095257	RGWEHO37BGAP4	0312306814	492901256	A Grave Denied: A Kate Shugak Novel	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Not All the Chills Are Because of the Weather	I love a good mystery series, which is why I wish I had made the acquaintance of Dana Stabenow and the marvelous Kate Shugak a long time ago. However, that oversight has now been corrected and you may be sure I'll be eagerly looking for more. I would also urge anyone who also has failed to make the acquaintance of these two to remedy the situation immediately.<br />When a quartet of middle-schoolers discovers a body under the Grant Glacier while on a field trip, Kate is drawn in on two counts. First, her ward Johnny, son of her dead lover, was one of the four. Second, State Trooper Jim Chopin wants her help. He wants Kate, too, but that's another issue.<br />Then someone burns Kate's cabin to the ground-and would have done the same to her and Johnny if they'd been home. Jim officially throws her off the case, but now it's become personal.<br />I'll be the first to admit that, for me, Alaska is one of those places I'd like to visit but wouldn't live in. I'm too fond of being warm. But this particular visit was well worth the trip, an engrossing and multi-layered story that to a degree brought to mind the television series Northern Exposure. The people who inhabit Ms. Stabenow's book have the same unique character quirks while still never edging beyond the boundaries of reality. Meeting them for the first time, in all their fierce independence and determination to give no more to the Powers That Be than is absolutely necessary, it's not at all hard to believe that a man could live among them for decades without anyone ever learning much more about him than his name.<br />Ms. Stabenow masterfully manages to untangle the basic mystery-who killed the handyman?-while at the same time drawing the reader into the lives of the people among whom it took place, and by the time she's done and the final, shocking answer is revealed, one feels just as affected as do the members of her fictional community.<br />Those who have had the good fortune to make Kate Shugak's acquaintance will surely find this a worthy addition to their collection. Those who, like me, have just been introduced are going to want to start one.will surely find this a worthy addition to their collection. Those who, like me, have just been introduced are going to want to start one.	2003-10-19
US	30095257	R3A2ALITNPNF3C	1589800958	927800980	Child to the Waters	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Songs Without Music	The folk tale is a hybrid creature, part history, part gossip, part flight of fancy. They almost always contain characters that tie them to the myths and legends of the past while their voice and themes are tied firmly to the present.<br />James Everett Kibler has blended local stories of the South with a deft had at imagery to create a collection of stories that slip effortlessly into established folklore. Told in prose that is by turns lyrical, earthy and eldritch, his tales beg to be heard in the glow of a campfire on a warm summer night to the accompanying chants of crickets.<br />\\"Our storyteller,\\" he writes in the Prelude, \\"has decreed that here, the rules that govern the modern mind, so rigidly shaped by reductive science, neither guide nor apply.\\"<br />Rather, the imagination is called to drift into places where the evidence of the senses is not always trustworthy and is certainly no advantage.<br />Appropriately, he begins with a ghost story, based on a local legend heard in many places throughout the South: \\"The Night Her Portrait Sang.\\" Then, as if aware of the need to keep at least one foot firmly planted on solid earth, he follows with two tales of family and the enduring power of love.<br />Mr. Kibler's stories are meant to be savored, the taste of their imagery rolled over the tongue like the very best wine, their sweetness and bitterness equally appreciated because both are necessary. Filled as they are with laughter, tears, courage, desperation, fear and triumph, love is, in fact, the recurring theme. It is the root of both good and evil-love of man and woman, parent and child, love for the earth and one's heritage.<br />This book is a delightful experience that, for sheer reading pleasure, is not to be missed.	2003-10-19
US	30095257	R2IOB2Y5K015OC	1879194414	604435116	House of Broken Dreams	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Lacks sense of focus	F. Scott Fitzgerald commented that the rich are different from the rest of us, to which Ernest Hemingway is supposed to have replied, \\"Yes, they have more money.\\"<br />However, the Widdicombe's, who are the focus of this novel, are not only different but downright peculiar, whether they have money or not. The question is why anyone would really be interested in what happens to these utter snobs, who place so much importance on what they are they never bother to find out WHO they are.<br />Told in the first person by the main character whose nickname, Strut, is undoubtedly intentional, this view of a family fallen on hard times clinging to tradition tooth and nail might hold more interest if any of the characters showed any sign of depth. Unfortunately, the Widdicombes-they assume their mother's maiden name to avoid any connection with the late and unlamented pater familias who is discovered to have embezzled from his bank-despite the clear ironic difference between their perception of themselves and the shallow, arrogant reality, simply don't wear well. Once that point is made, it goes nowhere. Instead, the book leaps large gaps of time to provide what amount to little more than vignettes that repeat essentially the same theme as all the ones that preceded them.<br />This lack of any real plot isn't helped by the author's choosing to give Strut a voice straight out of Jane Austen-and then try to justify it by having Strut say he does it on purpose. All Mr. Roberts achieves is making the reader constantly aware of his presence. Worse, Strut's homosexuality seems like a plot contrivance rather than an aspect of character, thrown in to provide some modicum of tension because it was an unacceptable lifestyle for the rich and famous during the period in which the book is first set.<br />HOUSE OF BROKEN DREAMS could have been a sharp, scathing look at social snobbery and the lengths to which those for whom family name and social position are everything will go to preserve them. Unfortunately, it simply goes on too long without really getting anywhere.them. Unfortunately, it simply goes on too long without really getting anywhere.	2003-10-02
US	30095257	R33PML6C5BDQHG	0970486863	433308517	The Demon Plague	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Back to the future--with hell to pay	The writing team of Karl Joreid and Frances McFate have created an intriguing, multi-level tale of adventure and intrigue filled with fascinating characters who never turn out to be who they seem. With the pacing of a Bruce Willis movie on amphetamines, THE DEMON PLAGUE hauls the reader from page to page, from past to present to future, never letting up for a moment longer than to allow one deep breath before plunging on. Their heroine is well-blessed with intelligence, common sense and a firm sense of the ironic, and the plot is full of enough twists, turns and red herrings to keep even mystery lovers wondering who did what to whom-and when. The dialogue is snappy, clever and rings true with only an occasional lapse, and each character of any importance is instantly recognizable by his or her voice.<br />The book's single weakness is that the authors fudge on future technology, relying overmuch on equipment operated by \\"thought waves.\\" Up to that point, THE DEMON PLAGUE qualified as solid time-travel SF. The pseudo-tech of the mentally controlled computers, robots and whatnot seems too much like magic, especially given the \\"future history\\" described.<br />However, for readers who aren't as bothered by such quibbles, this is without question good, sound entertainment.	2003-10-02
US	30095257	R35Z6IZ48JJSEZ	0962197955	409370829	Portals in a Northern Sky	Books	3	10	10	N	N	More philosophy than fiction	PORTALS IN A NORTHERN SKY is a novel that seems to be a bit unsure of what it wants to be. Part science fiction, part fantasy, part historical, it wanders across two centuries introducing a plethora of characters whose interconnectedness is gradually revealed as the plot progresses.<br />The underlying thread is the invention of a machine that allows one to view incidents in the past, a window on history. James Tall Tree, a Native American and the National Science Advisor, announces the development of the system to an eclectic group of people all of whom are well-known in their respective fields: a psychologist, an evangelist, a sociologist, an antiestablishment historian and a Libertarian capitalist. Their purpose is to advise him-and, by extension, the President of the US-on how to present the discovery to the world in a way that will minimize the potential negative impact.<br />At the same time, self-made millionaire Bob Thornton abandons his life as an investment genius and sets off on a quest for enlightenment to Alaska, Tall Tree's mentor, academic Adam Whitehead, flees into the Alaskan wilderness to die, convinced he is in the early stages of Alzheimer's, and Dallas policeman Vince Terrell also plans a journey to the last American frontier-after he exacts revenge on the drug dealer responsible for his sister's death.<br />Author Charles Douglas Hayes is a firm believer in the importance of ongoing self-education. He also clearly has a deep and abiding love for the Alaskan wilderness, which he describes in vivid and compelling detail. However, his novel, despite its potential, tries to cover too many issues and ends up shortchanging all of them.<br />In fact, once one gets past the various historical vignettes that begin the book, the frame story of the \\"history viewer\\" becomes just that-a framework on which to hang lengthy philosophical discussions on the importance of self-education between Bob Thornton and Ruben Sanchez, the bookstore owner-cum-self-educated philosopher who gives him a ride to Alaska. This would be fine if their relevance to the main plot-as well as those of some of the other seemingly unrelated vignettes-were tied together sooner.<br />This isn't to say Mr. Douglas's book isn't worth reading. The roundtable about the potential impact of the \\"history viewer\\" raises some compelling questions about just how much we really DO want to know the accurate versions of our past. But PORTALS IN A NORTHERN SKY should be read for what it is: a philosophical debate rather than a true novel. It is intended to educate, not entertain.d philosopher who gives him a ride to Alaska. This would be fine if their relevance to the main plot-as well as those of some of the other seemingly unrelated vignettes-were tied together sooner.<br />This isn't to say Mr. Douglas's book isn't worth reading. The roundtable about the potential impact of the \\"history viewer\\" raises some compelling questions about just how much we really DO want to know the accurate versions of our past. But PORTALS IN A NORTHERN SKY should be read for what it is: a philosophical debate rather than a true novel. It is intended to educate, not entertain.	2003-08-16
US	30095257	R2YWIE3LSE31Y4	1589801008	2969631	Dreamweaving: The Secret to Overwhelming Your Business Competition	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Inspiring and practical	Every hour of every day we consumers suffer a barrage of advertising, each shouting \\"bigger, better, new, improved.\\" Our eyes and ears are so afflicted by claims and counterclaims that we soon learn to filter out the noise.<br />How then, can the creator or vendor of a product of service hope to gain the attention of potential customers and turn that attention into sales?<br />\\"To millions of talented businesspeople,\\" says marketing consultant Michael Chandler in DREAMWEAVING: The Secret to Overwhelming Your Business Competition, \\"SALES is a four-letter word.\\"<br />What he means, is that just because someone has a talent for business doesn't make them equally skilled in selling their product or service no matter how convinced they are theirs is the best thing since cable TV. The very thought of facing a reluctant consumer and convincing them they should spend their hard-earned cash on THIS instead of THAT gives them heartburn.<br />Fortunately, says Mr. Chandler, the most successful sales campaigns aren't. They don't sell anything. Rather, they focus on what the customer needs and wants and simply alerts them that the very thing they're looking for is RIGHT HERE. This is the fine craft of Dreamweaving.<br />\\"Dreamweavers don't think in or out of boxes,\\" he explains. \\"Dreamweavers think in circles . . .Dreamweavers understand how people feel, how they think, and what makes them tick. They know what makes people excited and what bores them to tears.\\"<br />And how to these amazing folks know all of this? Quite simple. They don't talk, they listen. In this era saturated with mass advertising, they don't try to out-shout the competition. Instead, they seek out the needs of their prospective customers and fulfill them. Successful marketing, he advises, is solely a matter of how the customer perceives the product. So, the wise marketer focuses on determining which images and ideas will allow his or her potential customers to personally relate to the product.<br />\\"Listen to what your customers want. Then give it to them,\\" Mr. Chandler says.<br />Does it work? So far, if the examples Mr. Chandler provides are any indication. And we're talking banks, where the difference between one and the next is negligible at best when it comes to services. He has consulted with several banks that have seen their assets and customer base skyrocket simply because they have offered their paid radio advertising time to promote public events and fundraisers. Why? Because the residents of the communities they serve stop thinking of them as \\"the bank\\" and start considering them neighbors, friends, people who'll come through when they're needed.<br />Written in a pleasant, ironic style that entertains as well as educates, DREAMWEAVING offers advice that can be used by businesses no matter how small or large. The principles Mr. Chandler relates are also egalitarian in that they can be adapted to just about any kind of business you'd care to mention, and his focus on customer relations rather than hard sell is refreshing in itself. He honestly admits many are put off by what they consider the \\"touchy-feely\\" aspects of his premise, but that doesn't faze him a bit. The important thing is, it works.o what your customers want. Then give it to them,\\" Mr. Chandler says.<br />Does it work? So far, if the examples Mr. Chandler provides are any indication. And we're talking banks, where the difference between one and the next is negligible at best when it comes to services. He has consulted with several banks that have seen their assets and customer base skyrocket simply because they have offered their paid radio advertising time to promote public events and fundraisers. Why? Because the residents of the communities they serve stop thinking of them as \\"the bank\\" and start considering them neighbors, friends, people who'll come through when they're needed.<br />Written in a pleasant, ironic style that entertains as well as educates, DREAMWEAVING offers advice that can be used by businesses no matter how small or large. The principles Mr. Chandler relates are also egalitarian in that they can be adapted to just about any kind of business you'd care to mention, and his focus on customer relations rather than hard sell is refreshing in itself. He honestly admits many are put off by what they consider the \\"touchy-feely\\" aspects of his premise, but that doesn't faze him a bit. The important thing is, it works.	2003-08-16
US	30095257	R3LU3PTLUMPFVA	0595238661	346432955	Love in Seaview	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Sequel doesn't stand alone	Adrian Quest continues the story begun in his debut novel, A CERTAIN DISTANCE TO CROSS, of widower Tom Claasen in this study of the trials and tribulations of relationships.<br />Three years have passed since Claasen's beloved wife Natalie died in an automobile accident and he fled the Kansas plains for a deserted island off the coast of Maine. He returns to Kansas, his goal to bid Natalie a final farewell before he takes a step that has been coming for some time-asking Ellen to marry him.<br />Tom and Ellen seem to be starting off with an excess amount of baggage. The twenty-year difference in their ages seems to have a much greater impact on them than it does on most people of middle age. Tom's unemployed status-and the potential difficulty of an academic out of the field for three years being able to land a job-is a more problematic issue, as Ellen suffered an earlier relationship where she was compelled to be the breadwinner. The real problem, however, is why, knowing all this, Tom opts to leap into marriage before he finds work-any kind of work.<br />The other is that, despite Mr. Quest's efforts to make this sequel stand alone, it doesn't, really. Oh, there's sufficient backstory so we know what's come before. What is missing is the understanding of and relationship with the two main characters one presumably would have acquired by reading the first book. This is an unfortunate weakness, as there is nothing in LOVE IN SEAVIEW to engage the reader sufficiently with the characters to make their relationship dilemmas all that interesting.<br />It doesn't help that Tom's joblessness comes across as a plot contrivance to provide a major conflict for them. Much is made of his honorable behavior in refusing to have sex with Ellen before marriage, which makes his willingness to get married knowing he has no way of contributing to household living expenses-and that Ellen's income isn't all that dependable either-seem like a major personality contradiction.<br />So, although Mr. Quest has a great deal of skill with words and paints excellent landscapes both internal and external populated with characters who all have unique and reasonably interesting voices, the simple fact is that it is difficult to feel much empathy for two people old enough to know better who enter into an intimate relationship with all the apparent indifference to reality of teenagers.hough Mr. Quest has a great deal of skill with words and paints excellent landscapes both internal and external populated with characters who all have unique and reasonably interesting voices, the simple fact is that it is difficult to feel much empathy for two people old enough to know better who enter into an intimate relationship with all the apparent indifference to reality of teenagers.	2003-08-16
US	30095257	RLP88Z3CJ70QK	031230188X	993961822	If Wishes Were Horses: A Novel	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Beautifully rendered, starkly real	Talented author Merry Whiteford explores the world of foster children in this tale of love, poverty and dreams, set in the mid-1960's and told by a young woman caught between the childhood she never really had and an adulthood she isn't at all prepared for.<br />Christened Veda by an alcoholic mother obsessed with the Joan Crawford movie MILDRED PIERCE, she renames herself \\"Star\\" when she, her brother and two other boys are placed in foster care together. Prior to that, she lived for a time in a Catholic-run orphanage, where she witnessed the suicide of another child who was punished for being pregnant. When Star discovers herself in the same predicament, she is determined to obtain an abortion, if only she can find the needed cash.<br />For Star has dreams. She is a poet, and her sights are set on something beyond the poverty and crime that surround her. After all, she notes, \\"Starting with almost nothing leaves almost everything open.\\"<br />In this beautifully rendered coming-of-age novel, Ms. Whiteford vividly portrays the sense of isolation, the knowledge of separateness not only understood but, to a degree, cultivated by a child from whom relationships are controlled by fiat. In Star Hennessey, with her yearning for a life where the creativity and the life of the mind is respected, she has created a young woman of almost militant optimism who has managed not to lose faith, either in herself or in the power of love, despite obstacles life has placed in her path. Ms. Whiteford understands as well the mixture of childish innocence and precocious maturity young people caught in the wheel of poverty and foster care acquire.<br />IF WISHES WERE HORSES subtly studies the differences between cherishing dreams, as Star does, and nursing delusions as her mother, who insists her children call her \\"Mildred,\\" clings to in the face of all common sense. Mildred has and does seek rescue, a helpless princess awaiting the arrival of her prince; while Star realizes the only one who can rescue her is herself.<br />What is particularly powerful about this book is its underlying theme that small applications of kindness and generosity-not necessarily of money but of time and experience and attention-can produce quality fruit even in soil that seems blasted and infertile. IF WISHES WERE HORSES is a superbly constructed window into a Dickensian world most people will hopefully never see, and yet one that everyone should have at least a taste of.ho can rescue her is herself.<br />What is particularly powerful about this book is its underlying theme that small applications of kindness and generosity-not necessarily of money but of time and experience and attention-can produce quality fruit even in soil that seems blasted and infertile. IF WISHES WERE HORSES is a superbly constructed window into a Dickensian world most people will hopefully never see, and yet one that everyone should have at least a taste of.	2003-08-16
US	30095257	R1GGLBNY00JMQP	0595172296	54190032	The Shattered Tower	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Trials of gods and men drive excellent fantasy series	In this second fantasy novel in his Godfall series, Kevin Morris continues the saga of gods and men begun in THE DAWN CHILD as the goddess Aurora's favored young disciple Shar is abducted by the mad, rage-filled Gihar. At the same time, Necros, god of death, resurrects the soul of the goddess Eldritch in the body of the goddess of love as they continue their plot to rule Twilight, the dwelling place of the gods.<br />Although the core of this installment is the search by Aurora and her followers for the missing child, THE SHATTERED TOWER is a multi-themed book that overcomes the inertia that is a not-uncommon characteristic of second-books-in-a-series. It is truly a transitional work, resolving some of the minor threads left dangling in the first book as it introduces a complex seine of new ones. The Primal Deity here is not Sophia, the shining Dawn Child, but her evil sister, The Entity, thus setting the stage for what will undoubtedly be a final confrontation between the two forces at a later time.<br />This is a solidly written fantasy with interesting and well-defined characters who reflect all the strengths and weaknesses humanity is heir to, even when they are supposed to have transcended them. And despite having a \\"cast of thousands,\\" Mr. Morris keeps them all firmly under control and is careful not to let any disappear long enough to be forgotten. There are some fine moments full of irony and action, and from time to time the dialogue sparks with wry humor.<br />His handling of backstory, however, is a little less successful. It would be advisable for those who haven't read THE DAWN CHILD to do so before diving into this book, as most of the major events that lead to the action described here are given too short shrift.<br />Still, both books are sturdy adventures of sword and sorcery and well worth a look.	2003-07-06
US	30095257	R1TTA46MK586C3	0971264805	113691255	On the Way to Woodstock	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Compelling and thought-provoking	It has become chic to apply words like &quot;turbulent&quot; and &quot;rebellious&quot; to the late 1960's, and the Woodstock Music Festival has become iconic as a benchmark of the time.<br />Elizabeth Warren and Sheri Davenport return to that era with this complex coming-of-age story of two young women who meet as college roommates and go one to share many of the kinds of events that earmark the Sixties. It is a story of friendship, secrets and the struggle for identity no one truly escapes, although often it is far-too-long postponed.<br />Life is wearing Jess Martin down. The only thing remotely resembling love in her life is her affair with her married boss, and she has just flubbed a major account. Then, a young woman bearing a haunting resemblance to the woman who was Jess's best friend and constant gadfly appears on her doorstep and drags Jess into a part of the past she would just as soon not have to recall.<br />ON THE WAY TO WOODSTOCK is an emotionally rich journey through the heart and mind of a woman who has always sought safety in convention, even when she outwardly seemed to rebel. The authors have created characters as diverse and complicated as any who tuned in, turned on and dropped out. Their depiction of the friendship between Jess and Holly, two young women both searching for the same thing yet completely opposite in their method of pursuit, has a verity that will resonate with anyone who ever had a best friend they loved and hated and couldn't imagine living without until they had no choice.<br />Equally compelling is their portrait of Zoe, the illegitimate daughter Holly gave up for adoption who invades Jess's life demanding to know as much as she can about her real mother because she herself is pregnant. Her unremitting insistence on information forces Jess to take a hard look at the meaning of her life and the patterns that have dominated it, and in the process both women come to grips with who they are and how they fit into their worlds.<br />Those who lived through the late 1960's will no doubt experience a sense of deja vu, so clearly are the sights and sounds of those years presented. ON THE WAY TO WOODSTOCK isn't just for them, however. It is a first-rate look into the interwoven lives of three women from two generations that will enthrall anyone who has ever looked into his or her mirror and found a stranger looking back./>Those who lived through the late 1960's will no doubt experience a sense of deja vu, so clearly are the sights and sounds of those years presented. ON THE WAY TO WOODSTOCK isn't just for them, however. It is a first-rate look into the interwoven lives of three women from two generations that will enthrall anyone who has ever looked into his or her mirror and found a stranger looking back.	2003-07-06
US	30095257	RTSI61RCESNON	1880292300	840094638	Who's Listening Anyway?: A Guide to Effective Listening	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Who says conversation is dead?	Hey, listen up! The art of being a good listener isn't determined by DNA. Dr. John Lovitt believes anybody can master the skill if they're willing to work at it.<br />In this first of a series of books aimed at teaching people to communicate well, Dr. Lovitt defines what makes a truly good listener: &quot;Listening,&quot; he writes in chapter three, &quot;is when listeners provide verbal and non-verbal responses to understand or match the intended message of the messengers.&quot;<br />True listening, he goes on to explain, requires several processes: listening for content, context and key feelings and listening and observing for non-verbal cues and behavior.<br />Most of us manage to muddle along reasonably well with our standard listening skills. However, says Dr. Lovitt, those who listen for a living need to do better, particularly if their goal is to validate and/or help the messenger.<br />Wittily illustrated by San Antonio, Texas, artist Bill Bristow, WHO'S LISTENING ANYWAY is written in clear, concise language and with an enthusiastic style that makes the lessons it contains relatively painless. Using an eight-element scale he developed himself, Dr. Lovitt guides the reader into the first steps toward a better understanding of our fellow humans.<br />&quot;The more people are listened to,&quot; he writes, &quot;the less baggage they have to store. The more they are listened to, the cleaner their attics become. The more they are listened to, the less wounded they are. Being thoroughly understood and loved for who they are allows people to take a huge step forward toward wholeness, and, therefore, wellness of mind, body and spirit.&quot;<br />Shall we talk?	2003-07-06
US	30095257	R37JEFCFE7HVJ1	1565548698	454894820	Majesty of the Mississippi Delta, The (Majesty Series)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	History beautifully brought to life	If your love of beauty and history extends to architecture but your travel budget is limited, consider obtaining a copy of THE MAJESTY OF THE MISSISSIPPI DELTA.<br />Author Jim Fraiser and photographer West Freeman traveled the 200-mile length of the Yazoo-Mississippi Delta, the heart of of the realm of King Cotton, to assemble the text and illustrations for this handsome, informative little book. The result is replete with fascinating anecdotes about times long past and splendid pictures of the extraordinarily beautiful homes, churches and public buildings that stand as a monument to an era.<br />Beginning at Port Gibson, the &quot;Gateway to the Delta,&quot; and the classic simplicity of St. Joseph's Catholic Church, Messers Fraiser and Freeman trace the history of this diverse and scenic region in both the lives of its founders and the exquisite constructs they created. The text is filled with gossipy tidbits as well as less-familiar history, like the chandelier from the famous steamboat Robert E. Lee that hangs in Port Gibson's First Presbyterian Church and the tale of the ghost of owner John Bobb, murdered by Union soldiers, that purportedly still roams the flying-wing stairway and double-tiered galleries of McRaven in Vicksburg.<br />This book is for those whose hunger for beauty extends to that crafted by the hands of man. If it has a flaw, it is that the taste of these magnificent structures it provides leaves the reader hungry to sample them first-hand. Should one be fortunate enough to do that, they could do worse than to tuck their copy of THE MAJESTY OF THE MISSISSIPPI DELTA into their tote as a reference.	2003-07-06
US	30095257	RIT63O8P1BFRH	0345451058	826289387	Flesh Tones	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A superb study of love and obsession	What is the dividing line between deep love and obsession? Who should be allowed to judge when a relationship crosses from one to the other?<br />Genny Haviland met artist Slade Gabriel in her father's gallery when she was 17. They became lovers, an affair that lasted for only weeks in reality but survived for the rest of Genny's life in her heart and soul. They meet again twenty years later, only to have Gabriel learn he has fallen victim to rapidly advancing Alzheimer's. Knowing he could not bear to live without his art, Genny agrees to help him commit suicide.<br />But a missing letter results in her arrest for murder, and a grief-stricken Genny has no inclination to fight the charge. Instead, as the trial proceeds, she reviews the past, the present and the relationship that has defined her emotional life, looking for an answer that may defy explanation.<br />In her latest novel, M.J. Rose explores yet another aspect of the relationships between men and women and how those relationships can define us even more than we define them. Child of a distant mother and a father whose love carries strange, twisted undertones, the young Genny is ripe for the kind of intense, all-encompassing passion she finds with Slade Gabriel. She is at once sympathetic and irritating, stubbornly clinging to the loss of her lover as if it will somehow compensate her for the greater loss of the emotional connections she never had -- or allowed herself to have.<br />FLESH TONES, however, is more than simply a study of one woman's overwhelming need for enduring love. It is also about creativity, and how the truly great artist will always have one small part of his or her soul they cannot share no matter how deeply they love another. Written with powerful emotional intensity and a clear, discerning eye for both the glories and the agonies of both love and passion, Flesh Tones will resonate with anyone who has ever loved what they can never completely have, but it will also provoke tough questions in those who have not.ions in those who have not.	2003-07-06
US	30095257	RDRB5PQHDFVIX	0595200869	995182937	Meditations In My Favourite Places In Southern Africa: A Travelogue For Inner And Outer Jounries	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A travelogue for the mind	With the media committed to focusing on the negative side of everything, it would be no surprise to learn that the majority of the people in the US have no idea of the beauty that is integral to the region of southern Africa. Author Gail Evans wants to change that, but her little travel book offers more than just sightseeing.<br />Ms. Evans has selected seven of her favorite spots in that vast nation and created short essays describing their wonders. She then takes her journey a step further, tying the external to the eternal as she uses the symbolism each place has for her to create a meditation exercise. Thus, we not only join her in appreciating the natural beauty she describes but can follow her inward journey as well. Hence, her subtitle: &quot;A Travelogue for Inner and Outer Journeys.&quot;<br />This is an excellent study guide for beginners in the art of meditation for several reasons. First, there are Ms. Evans's clear, concise discussions of the method and purposes of each exercise. Second, however, the places she's chosen to use as the focus for each one are of the kind that can be found almost anywhere. So, even those who can't travel to Africa may be able to somewhat duplicate the sites described somewhere near their own place of residence.<br />MEDITATIONS IN MY FAVORITE PLACES IN SOUTHERN AFRICA is an excellent book to give as a gift or to tuck into your suitcase as you set off on vacation. Ms. Evans has a gift for painting vivid pictures with an economy of words, and she communicates her delight in the joys of nature with crystal clarity. And for those who may actually be able to take a trip to the places she's been, there is a long list of web addresses that provide more information.<br />So, whether your travels are internal or external, this slender book is an excellent choice as a guide. My only complaint was that it suffered a bit from mediocre copyediting, but not enough to spoil the trip	2003-07-06
US	30095257	R10F5L7AWYVON0	1565549902	69217437	What Do We Want to Be When We Grow Up?	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Good, Common-sense Advice	Every year thousands of self-help books are published promising you can be smarter, richer, thinner, happier and/or better pleased with yourself even without all of the above. The majority of these books have one basic assumption: that the reader knows what he or she wants.<br />Authors Kenney Hayes and Marlene Hamilton, however, know there are some --women in particular -- who may have a feeling there's something missing in their lives but aren't quite sure what. What may be missing, they say, is an understanding of one's life's purpose, a dream. Everyone has such a purpose, they advise, but may have either lacked the courage to pursue it or lost faith in their ability to do so. What Do We Want to Be When We Grow Up is for them.<br />&quot;Get ready,&quot; writes Ms. Hamilton, &quot;to visualize the invisible Dream God has for you, or the one tucked down deep within your heart.&quot;<br />In a breezy, wry style, Ms. Hayes and Ms. Hamilton offer the kind of &quot;you can do it&quot; encouragement one gets from good friends, and that is totally intentional. Although both are active in church ministry, they aren't out to preach a sermon. Instead, by using events in their own lives as examples, they show how even the negative events in our lives can further our path goalward. Each chapter is followed by a single page of exercises intended to build confidence and aid in self-discovery, making their slim volume an potentially excellent group study guide.<br />WHAT DO WE WANT TO BE WHEN WE GROW UP might almost be subtitled &quot;An Introduction to Self-Help,&quot; because that is essentially what it does. It's a place to start if one is dissatisfied without quite knowing why, a first step on the road to finding out just what one is here for presented in an easily digested, uplifting way that never accuses or condemns. And it is well worth reading just for the pleasure of knowing the authors.	2003-06-13
US	30095257	R1VDW19G28NKKK	155212990X	827511859	1: The Chalk Town Train & Other Tales: The Harper Chronicles, Volume One	Books	5	5	5	N	N	This Book Isn't Long Enough	These days, anthologies tend to either be collections of the year's best something-or-other or compilations of literary short stories intended to elevate and edify. Both have their place in the scheme of things, but I suspect I'm not the only one who misses anthologies that contain just good entertainment.<br />If that's the case, may I offer for your amusement a slim little volume of tales by journalist Daniel Elton Harmon and featuring an historical counterpart of the author's by the name of Harper. Mr. Harper is a reporter for the fictitious Columbia, S.C., CHALLENGE in the almost-civilized era of the 1880's. The first compilation of his adventures, THE CHALK TOWN TRAIN & OTHER TALES, is billed as volume one of The Harper Chronicles, and those of us who like nothing better than a rollicking good yarn will be waiting impatiently for volume two.<br />The title story pits Harper against a notorious sociopath, back before such people actually had a diagnosis. \\"The Chalk Town Train\\" is a story of corporate injustice, unadulterated evil and justice administered with more than a touch of irony. Indeed, the purveyance of justice is a recurring theme in the eight stories that comprising the book, with our man Harper using his skill and insight to ferret out the truth, sometimes when no one else can.<br />Mr. Harmon has a superbly deft hand with the short story, and his characters are sharply drawn with a few adept strokes. From first word to last, each of Harper's adventures proceeds without a stumble, and the reader who can stop after reading just one must have a will of iron. His style is crisp and effortless, setting scenes with an economy of language that likely owes much to the author's own career as a journalist.<br />Indeed, the only real flaw in THE CHALK TOWN TRAIN is that it's over too soon, and before the appetite is satisfied.	2003-06-13
US	30095257	R2V9V1J6VA5NSC	0971836132	665948186	Lone Journey and Other Questing Stories	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Journey into the Human Heart	Comparing life to a journey is a natural analogy. Both trips have a distinct beginning, a time of passage and exploration and a return. Yet it isn't a perfect analogy, for if we travel in life as we ought we will likely not return to where we started.<br />L.D. Clark, in LONE JOURNEY AND OTHER QUESTING STORIES has assembled a small collection of varied tales on journeys both internal and external. Sometimes the two merge, the movement in physical space causing or enhancing the movement in emotional space. Some are firmly rooted in realism. Others stray into the side alleys of the mind and spirit.<br />Some, like &quot;Over Tall Mountain to Short Mountain,&quot; result in some tiny measure of enlightenment for the actors. Others reveal the many ways--not all of them viable--of coping with being lost, such as &quot;A Harvest of Weeds&quot; and &quot;The Mountain Lion.&quot;<br />These stories are about passages great and small, those moments in life when we choose a path for reasons that are uniquely personal. Some of those choices are life-changing, turning us in a direction totally new, for good or ill. Others seem minor on the surface, yet carry a suggestion of repercussions yet to come--not change itself, but its seeds.<br />In &quot;Over Tall Mountain to Short Mountain,&quot; a pair of middle class Anglo travelers in search of the perfect Navajo rug encounter a man who understands what they are really searching for. The title story is about a woman's own rebirth as she silently gives birth alone, her solitude her own choice as she searches for her identity apart from those who have always defined it.<br />Contrasting and complementing these sharp-edged moments of reality is &quot;The Instant of a Wreck,&quot; in which the last resident of a dead town hungers for company in the non-life to which he has faded. &quot;A Harvest of Weeds&quot; is a compelling tour of the mind of a man burning with rage and hungry for revenge who watches his preferred self-image shatter irrevocably.<br />Mr. Clark's tales are most of them rather like Godiva chocolates. Ingested one at a time and savored for their imagery and the glimpses they provide into moments that resonate even if we've never shared the experiences in which they occur, they are a delicious treat. Unlike candy, however, we can enjoy this richness over and over.r irrevocably.<br />Mr. Clark's tales are most of them rather like Godiva chocolates. Ingested one at a time and savored for their imagery and the glimpses they provide into moments that resonate even if we've never shared the experiences in which they occur, they are a delicious treat. Unlike candy, however, we can enjoy this richness over and over.	2003-06-08
US	30095257	R1H7U506C3CUIB	0595193099	634434293	Shepherd	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A Look at the Other Side of Freedom	The urge for freedom, and the courage to fight for it no matter how overwhelming the odds, is ingrained in every living thing, from the smallest seed reaching for the sun through a crack in the pavement to people suffering under the harsh restrictions of political tyranny.<br />Freedom attained, however, adds the requirement that it be maintained, and that requires choices. In SHEPHERD, Mihaela Stoica provides an insightful look at just how difficult those choices can be for those unaccustomed to having them.<br />The book is set in the tumultuous days when Communism was failing throughout eastern Europe and the tyrannical Ceaucescu regime fought mightily to maintain its stranglehold on the people of Romania. It is the story of Aurea Cioban, a young woman who has never known anyting but that tyranny. Aurea's lover, Maurice, is a lieutenant in the Romanian army and, unbeknownst to her, working with the secret police to identify political dissidents. One of those dissidents is her own brother, Alexander.<br />Ms. Stoica presents her story of love and ambition and betrayal with a keen eye for the personal flaws and virtues that lead people to make their choices. Aurea is a familiar personality. Methodical and pragmatic in her thinking, she opts to focus on the present moment rather than look into a future that, to her, seems too chaotic for comfort. Her narrow view, however, makes her take what is before her at face value, including Maurice. She yearns for yet fears the price of freedom, and clings to the belief that it can be had and held without any drastic sacrifice of emotional comfort.<br />Those of us accustomed to freedom might find it difficult to understand the effect its sudden arrival can have on those who have never truly experienced it. While SHEPHERD offers no glaringly enlightening insights into the human condition, Ms. Stoica reveals how the suppression of individuality for a lifetime can render even the most intelligent all but helpless to react to a world that changes daily.<br />The Declaration of Independence called life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness \\"inalienable rights,\\" and so they should be. But, as Spock advised his rival Stonn in the STAR TREK episode \\"Amok Time,\\" sometimes having what one desires most is not as pleasurable as wanting it. Mihaela Stoica shows just how true that is, and does it with empathy and clarity of vision using characters who embody all the humanity anyone could desire. She has rendered political headlines into a compelling work of fiction that brings to life the human side of that struggle.orld that changes daily.<br />The Declaration of Independence called life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness \\"inalienable rights,\\" and so they should be. But, as Spock advised his rival Stonn in the STAR TREK episode \\"Amok Time,\\" sometimes having what one desires most is not as pleasurable as wanting it. Mihaela Stoica shows just how true that is, and does it with empathy and clarity of vision using characters who embody all the humanity anyone could desire. She has rendered political headlines into a compelling work of fiction that brings to life the human side of that struggle.	2003-06-08
US	30095257	R7HI7JYVEHCFZ	1589800133	893531316	Bubba Whartz Stories	Books	4	7	7	N	N	&quot;...a really fun time.&quot;	Just who is Bubba Whartz? Well, according to author and journalist Morgan Stinemetz, he's a transplanted Alabaman given to wearing overalls and a red Peterbilt gimme cap who resides in the waters off Sarasota, Florida, on a sloop he constructed of chickenwire and leftover concrete.<br />He's also the epitome of the picaresque redneck in pursuit of babes, booze and bucks, a pursuit that inevitably ends up in a disaster for himself, someone else or both of the above.<br />Mr. Stinemetz created Bubba in 1988 when he was the sailing columnist for the Sarasota Herald-Tribune. For reasons anyone lucky enough to acquire a copy of BUBBA WHARTZ STORIES will quickly discover, his creation became immensely popular with the local sailing crowd.<br />Bubba Whartz is &quot;a sailor who marches to the beat of a different drummer,&quot; and the adventures in this slim volume prove that beyond doubt. Whether he's getting even with annoying jet-skiers, trashing the annual Sarasota Christmas Boat Parade or developing yet another product that will make him a millionaire, Bubba's adventures with his unique watercraft, the Right Guard, are delightfully entertaining. His encounters with officialdom, often fueled by large quantities of recreational beverages, and his utter disregard for social conventions not infrequently provide a kind of sneaky satisfaction for those of us less free-living folks.<br />You don't have to be a sailing enthusiast to appreciate Bubba. Just pop on your Peterbilt cap, hunker down with a cold one and set your course to have a really fun time.	2003-06-08
US	30095257	RI9E6U8L5TXZX	0759649928	349514419	A Road Through Mali-Kuli	Books	5	3	3	N	N	An Extraordinary Adventure...	There are those who will insist that writers who take advantage of print-on-demand technology to self-publish do so because they either lack real talent or have a book nobody would want to read.<br />In A ROAD THROUGH MALI-KULI, Agi Kiss makes liars out of all of them.<br />Carol Simmons makes an emergency trip to the small African nation of Rumara, tracking down the truth about allegations that a project her organization is funding is destroying rain forest and that the head of the project is embezzling funds. She leaves behind a disgruntled husband she is fairly sure is having an affair with his graduate assistant.<br />However, what should be a simple fact-finding mission quickly becomes a dangerous game of intrigue, beginning with a phone call in the middle of the night from a mysterious African man who insists &quot;Mrs. Simon&quot; would do better to deal directly with him rather than anyone else. That Carol has no idea what he's talking about--and tells him so--makes no difference. Something is happening here that has little to do with a village women's cooperative, and before the riddles are solved someone is very likely to end up dead.<br />An ecologist for the World Bank, Ms. Kiss knows well the region in which she places her fictional country of Rumara, and it is clear from her exquisitely detailed descriptions that she loves it, as well. However, good description is only one aspect of a well-written book. A ROAD THROUGH MALI-KULI has it all: intriguing characters, most of whom are never quite what they seem; breath-stopping action and a plot with more twists and turns than the rural mountain roads that weave through the Rumaran jungle.<br />This is a first-class thriller of the sort one always hopes to find and all too often doesn't. There are no sermons on man's depredations on the wilderness; Ms. Kiss lets her characters and story reveal that in the way it should be done. If you want a can't-put-it-down page-turner, do not pass Go. Just pick up a copy of this book, and be prepared to lose sleep staying up all night to finish it.of this book, and be prepared to lose sleep staying up all night to finish it.	2003-06-08
US	30095257	R33R0N8K1S7HLN	0595161189	29910789	I Have No Intention of Saying Good-bye: Parents share their stories of hope and healing after a child's death	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Compelling Stories from Compelling People	The death of a loved one is a harsh blow. Whether it comes suddenly, in an accident or natural disaster, or after a long battle with illness, the survivors are left with an emptiness that defies description. And when the loved one is a child--no matter how old--that emptiness, says author Sandy Fox, never goes away.<br />Ms. Fox's 27-year-old daughter Marcy was killed in an automobile accident just when life had begun to fully open before her. The driver that caused her death has never been found.<br />\\"When your child dies, you change,\\" Ms. Fox writes in Chapter 5: \\"Private Thoughts on Healing.\\" \\"The person you were before is gone. The life you had before is no longer possible.\\"<br />\\"The heartache that comes when the natural order of things is changed, when your child dies before you,\\" adds her ex-husband Jess, Marcy's father, \\"is unfathomable.\\"<br />In I HAVE NO INTENTION OF SAYING GOOD-BYE Ms. Fox has compiled the stories of 24 other families devastated by the loss of one or more children, revealing the similarity of the pain they suffer and the many and varied ways they dealt with it. It is an enlightening study of grief and redemption, of anger and epiphany.<br />This is not the first book to address the issues of mourning or the death of children. What catches the reader's attention, though, is the simplicity and honest with which Ms. Fox and those she interviewed reveal their deepest and, sometimes, darkest pain. The result is an enlightening and emotional journey that leaves one both aching for these people and applauding their strength and courage.<br />Whether you've lost a child yourself or know someone who has, Ms. Fox offers insights into the many ways people deal--or don't--with that loss. For those fortunate enough not to have suffered this particular pain, her book will provide education in how to respond when someone else has that comes from the one source that can't be refuted. I HAVE NO INTENTION OF SAYING GOOD-BYE should be on the reference shelves of any professional who confronts the grief-stricken.ves of any professional who confronts the grief-stricken.	2003-06-08
