US	30231730	R1ZWPLZD7I51E5	0345382846	905379525	Here Be Dragons	Books	5	13	15	N	N	would never have thought it would become a favorite...	I read this book under my sister's endless urging...and finally forced myself to read the 1st few chapters after she offered me a bribe that I just couldn't resist.  This isn't my first Penman book and that's why I have a few misgivings of starting another of her historical novels--not in a bad way, of course.  She has that melancholic tone which depresses me so much.  Yes, I have a hard time picking up one of her books, but once I finally started, however painful it maybe, I knew I wouldn't be able to stop.  She likes to write about fallen kings and leaders of ancient England and the broken French.  She seeks explanation for each of their sin and provide us reasons within understanding. <br />In \\"Here be Dragons,\\" she told us the story of King John, a lesser King among the shadows of Richard Lionheart or Edward of York.  She showed us not a child-slayer or a wastrel but a King who suffered bad luck, and who was betrayed a thousand times in his lifetime.  Sometimes I felt so sorry for his misfortune which often ends up to incredulous laughter. <br />Also, in this book, Penman took a stab at a deeper romance which went beyond the tragic love between Richard and Anne of \\"Sunne in Splendour.\\"  I don't deny that I am a sucker for romance, and the bond between Llewelyn and Joanna really put me in different turmoil of emotions.  I think what set this apart from another judith-mcnaught-romance-novel is not the history but the realism on their actions, betrayals, misunderstandings and their \\"undying\\" love for each other.  I'd never read about Joanna or Llewelyn in historical books and I am afraid to do so now.  I know how Penman had romanticize Joanna's character(or most of the events in the novel), on how she was really believe to be the foreign-slut-wife of Llewelyn.  Still, I want to believe so much that it is not so.  Penman is one of the authors that made me doubt the pragmatism and relevance of the historical accounts written by (possibly) biased historians. <br />Anyway, as whole, the book was well-written.  I like how she tells the story without any haste at all. On how she begun to tell the story of LLewelyn and Joanna when they weren't even on their teens yet.  It makes it more personal...that I, as a reader, can look back or forward and gives me the feeling that I really know them as I would know I real individual.	2004-08-29
US	30231730	R19T6P7XNV01XC	0380899531	800832404	Love Only Once: A Malory Novel	Books	5	0	2	N	N	getting better and better!	I have read Gentle Rogue, Magic of You and Love Only Once, in that order...and the last time I'd written a review i've said  that I liked Amy and Warren's story than Georgie' and James's...and now, I take all those back and admit that Love Only Once is now my favorite Malory Book...I dont know if it's a spruce of the moment(however the saying goes)...it just happened...<BR>But as I think about it, I wasn't really captivated from the 1st half...I started to be hooked half way through the book.  It doesn't have the humor in Gentle Rogue and Magic of you.  What I like about this novel is that it invoked deeper emotions than a usual Malory novel.  This is where the Malory brothers were united and I noticed that they were not as active on this one as they were on the coming novels,  That's why the story is more centered on Regina and Nicky.  There are a lot of holes and flaws within the plot of the story but I won't enumerate those all; OBVIOUSLY, that's not the reason I gave this a 5-star rating. I just felt good and satisfied after reading it, and I say, that's what really counts!	2004-03-23
US	30231730	R3JIQI7HZG28LD	0671744216	986944205	The Secret	Books	3	14	22	N	N	ummm, I didn't really like it...	I DON'T know why a lot of readers love this book...maybe I'm weird or I have different taste...say whatever you want, But I REALLY think this book has no originality, has very weak characters, a downhill momentum, and a cheesy ending...<BR>NO ORIGINALITY:  If u read a lot of Garwoods, you have to admit that it was the SAME thing, over and over again...I thought my first Garwood book is good, but this second time, god, I can't stomach it...I dont know if she's running out of ideas or what..<br />WEAK and AWKWARD CHARACTERS: well,good things first, I like how she makes her heroine different from her other ones by giving them adorable habits like in this novel, Judith sleep like the dead...but what I find irritating is how she keeps them childish and naive...what I mean is, she starts off when they were young like 5-7 years old, I think she does an excellent job on portraying their character as very young kids...but then, they jumped into young adulthood, and I still feel like they are 5 year old kids.  Yes, it's ok for them to have these unique talents and outspoken manners, but Garwood position them like rocks on a very flat land.  There's no smooth transition.  She can make them as beautiful or big as she wants them, but they still come out weak and AWKWARD<<< <br />DOWNHILL MOMENTUM:  All her novels starts good, I mean they hook u right into the story...Always a scottish warrior taking an englishwoman into Scotland, of course it's interesting...well, I wont really say that if it's the 6th scotman on his way to england...BUt after they brought them to scotland, the plot starts to deteriorate...The engliswoman will start to impress the laird and his people...I mean, so what? that's not new...<br />CHEESY ENDING: Seriously, I dont know how people find the ending so touching...it was so corny...One by one,  a scottish wife stands up, offer to leave everything (plus their husband) that has been her life just to go with JUdith,...I mean, all of them??? that's kinda overdone, don't u think? I mean if it is believable, yes, it will be alright...and me...Im just so disappointed.<br />If it is your first romance novel, then I think you'll love this book, but if you read 20+ other romance novels and ur not normal like me, then I think it's not worth reading...	2004-03-14
US	30231730	RG3UO32ZAJH6N	0671003364	792256877	Ransom	Books	4	0	1	N	N	It's alright	I think Garwood did a better job here than in the Secret...<br />INTRODUCTION WITH PROLOGUE:  I thought it started off pretty good.  IT begun with a tragedy and a promise of vengeance.  I like Gillian's character and I think she is the best Garwood heroine.  She had endured a lot of hardships and I find myself symphatizing with her.  Garwood has perfectly molded a courageous and brave heroine, though she's oblivious with her strengths.  I also think  Alec is adorable with his you-know-what questions.  I met Brodick in the Secret, and I like him better than Iain.<br />THE MIDDLE:  I was almost impress with this novel...but when I got into the middle, it slid off into the usual Garwood pattern...Gillian and Bridgid turned into \\"Judith\\" and \\"Frances Catherine\\"  Father Laggan was hilarious.  The mystery of the traitor's identity kept the novel from going downhill altogether.<br />THE ENDING:  Here, it started to climb up again.  Garwood has brought back the adventure and excitement that was lost in the middle part.  The ending, thank god, is not cheesy.  I thought it was funny and just right.<br />All in all, this is a good book which is worth reading.  I hoped that Garwood has written a better prequel than the Secret.	2004-03-14
US	30231730	RKYNAT5RQ8QHG	0671737635	931033724	Something Wonderful (The Sequels series)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Don't you just think McNaught writes the best romances ever?	Sometimes.<BR>And \\"Something Wonderful\\" is one of those times.  McNaught never failed to write the kind of novels that you HAVE  to read on a one-sitting arrangement.  She keeps the excitement and anticipation on every chapters without inducing boredom.  Instead, she makes me want to push and read all the way to the end just to see if everything will be sweet and dandy.<BR>It was sweet, heartwrenchingly sweet in fact that it made me cry on the last few pages.<BR>Alexandra is an innocent who made me groan from embarassment and laughter when she obliviously humiliated herself from time to time.  Jordan is the complete opposite of his optimistic child-bride--the perfect antidote for his legendary cynicism.<BR>I think this book is so well-proportioned that I didn't even find the short gap of Jordan's assumed death as frustrating as Paradise's.  Instead, I was engrossed and hooked to Alexandra's flight of re-building her dignity and standing in the ton, that I was not so bored and annoyed while waiting forthe two characters to meet again.<BR>The ending, u can expect to be a \\"McNaught drama\\" but still, prepare urself to the usual fulfillment and joy McNaught gives after reading a good book that's worth your while.	2004-03-14
US	30231730	R2F9VPF8Y7IYUF	0553802712	307510881	Late for the Wedding	Books	4	3	3	N	N	It wasn't so bad!	I admit that her first two books of Lavinia and Tobias are a little bit on the dull side, especially &quot;Don't Look Back&quot;  I read them so painstakingly in a span of one week.  But this one, I thought Quick has finally grasped Lavinia and Tobias's character.  The comedy has improved a lot and I found myself laughing a lot of times.  The mystery is a lot funner but the suspect is so EASY to guess. Gosh, it's a no-brainer!  Quick has no talent in writing these kind of mysteries. I was hoping I was wrong with my hunches, but I was really disappointed that I figured out the case faster than Lavinia and Tobias had: Im not showing off or anything, ha ha, no Im not...I wish I was, but there's no glory on this one indeed.  <BR>There are a lot of side stories in this novel: Vale and Joan, Dominic and Priscilla, Emeline and Anthony.  I dont know about others, but, truthfully, I enjoyed reading their little scenes.  I wish this is not a trilogy coz even though I have a low opinion of these 3 books, I have to say that Quick has a potential in improving the story line.	2004-03-09
US	30231730	R54E34K6MRTN1	0380800829	704647865	The Duke and I (Bridgerton Series, Book 1)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	The book that started it all...	It was very unfortunate for me to read the FIRST book in the series as the LAST one.  Because of that reason, I will never find out if I could have reacted differently if I read them all in order.  But in order or not in order, this is DEFINITELY worth the hunting I did just so I can finally read Daphne's story.<BR>Daphne is who u call \\"one of the guys\\"; the girl who boys can hang out with--period: no marriage intentions or whatsoever.  But as it turns out, there is one Duke out there that will fall for her charms nonetheless.  The only problem is, this is one of those Dukes who has a depressingly destructing childhood.  If he consulted a psychiatrist-if there is one on that time-then we won't have to go through another emotional-roller-coaster-self-conflicted-ride...but since they weren't (probably)offering any psychology courses for the ton, we have to rely to the \\"healing power of love\\", whew! that is HEAVY eh? So here we have Daphne, who wishes to have a loving husband and lots and lots of children, falling in love with Simon, who had a bastard of a father, and sweared to his death that He will never, I repeat, NEVER continue the line of the Basset's ancestry; therefore, ending the dukedom with him.  But of course, when you have the Bridgertons, what else could go wrong? You'll surely have a happy-ending.<BR>I don't know if Quinn has brothers and sisters, but I was surprised and impressed on how he completely captured the \\"barbaric\\" relationship between siblings.  I laughed so hard especially when Daphne and one of his brother get into the fighting mode--physically.  There is also a family dinner which you CAN'T miss...I mean, the Bridgertons in a family dinner...it almost killed me!hehe--Violet Bridgerton will completely crack u up!<BR>As a wrap-up, half of the book is simple and easy-going with all the charms and antics u'll expect from a Bridgerton book, and half of the book is emotional, touching and sweet as u'll expect from Quinn.	2004-03-07
US	30231730	R3N437QPNIQCMN	0380756293	758003969	The Magic of You (Malory Novels)	Books	5	0	2	N	N	A one of a kind heroine!	What's the typical heroine anyway?<BR>Well, if you're reading the usual romances, then she has to be beautiful, has sense of humor, has a way with witty comebacks, and she has enough dignity and pride to resist the hero's charms...and finally give in close to the end of the novel.<BR>Amy Malory is all that EXCEPT of the LAST criteria mentioned.  She knocked me off my feet when I first met her.  Man oh man, was she ever the most daring heroine or what??? Her &quot;brazeness&quot; irritated Warrer Anderson but she will ABSOLUTELY drive u to tears, from laughing of course, with her up-front manners.<BR>As for Warren, wat can I say, if u have the most down-to-the-point girl, then u'll have the most unrelenting man u'll ever meet.  But I think his control was too much.  It went on and on and on, I thought he'll never give up.  And then, when he finally did, wat do u know, there were only a couple of pages left.  I was not satisfied, I wished it was LONGER.  <BR>This is my second Malory book, and I have to say that I enjoyed this better than &quot;Gentle Rogue&quot;.  This doesn't mean that I don't like James and George...I DO! Especially on this novel.  The MALLORY brothers, James &amp; Anthony, are at it again!  READ IT, it was a fun ride, and I hope it will be for u too.	2004-03-06
US	30231730	R2PJJC5PCWLGMA	0671019708	691382940	After the Night	Books	4	4	6	N	N	took so long to get started	I viewed a lot of lists concerning Linda Howard's novels, and I saw \\"After the Night\\" a couple of times as their number 1 favorite.  When I finally got a copy of it, I was so excited, saying mentally, \\" this is going to be good, i know it...\\" As it turns out, it's started to be good at PAGE 172 or so.I didn't know that. And while I was reading, I was asking over and over again, am I in the good part yet?\\" That was the disadvantage of SOLELY relying to other ppol's opinions.  They have different tastes. <BR>     Anyway, back to the novel in question...It wasn't that bad.  As I was saying, the momentum began when I was halfway through it.  I didn't like Gray that much and his change of heart towards Faith...well, let's just say that all I can see brewing up is the sexual attraction between them.  Howard added a spoonful of protectiveness in his character just so it wouldn't be completely phony...As for Faith, my goodness, wat's there to doubt? She's the most \\"faithful\\" heroine I ever read.  Her love for Gray never simmered through the years and she didn't let their family feud destroy her feelings for him.  The difference between their emotions is that,  Gray's affections were rooted from lust-oh okay-a bit of that protectiveness I mentioned above...and for Faith, they started as a child's innocent admiration and were strengtened as she battled poverty and her family's legacy.<BR>     So there yo go, too cold for Gray and too hot for Faith and u have lukewarm, not the best comparison...but close enough.<BR>     Finally, if it's Howard, then u can surely put ur money that there will be a mystery.  I thought it was a good plot, but it was very easy to guess the culprit because Howard didn't really supply us a lot of candidates.  All in all, I give it a four, it was an OK read, but not best of her works, in my opinion.	2004-03-04
US	30231730	R1099K179ZI78E	0553583395	261836081	Don't Look Back	Books	3	1	4	N	N	Don't look back indeed!	I've never read her other novels except for &quot;Slightly Shady&quot; so I don't have any comparisons nor I can say that she's not capable of putting something that will spice up her novels.  So anyway, the only thing that made me read this book is because I read &quot;slightly shady&quot; and when I start a story( a series for that matter) I intend to finish them.  <BR>But let me tell u, the ONLY JOY I got from reading this novel is when I got on the last page, not because it has a good ending(it was adequate) but because it's the last page and I'm FINALLY over it.  I didn't really enjoy it, a lot of times I wanna put it down.  It was so frustrating.  I got the feeling of total detachment.  Though I'll say, she is getting better on manuevering Tobias and Lavinia to invoke more humor into them.  One more improvement is her attack on the mystery part.  It's not hooking or anything, but still, it isn't easy to figure out...but it's not that hard either.  If it's a good mystery ur looking for, I think u'll do better if u pick a Hardy Boys novel...	2004-03-04
US	30231730	RDW4JFO10SVCV	0671027573	142020743	Mr. Perfect	Books	5	2	4	N	N	should be 4.5...oh wat the heck, ill give it a 5	This is my very first Linda Howard Book, and I made a mistake of opening it on a sunday midnight, I underestimated Howard and I stupidly assumed that it will put me to sleep in a second.  I mean, there's nothing wrong with staying up all night to finish a book, but staying up all night AND then having a midterm the next day, that just sucked big time.  I found myself still wide-eyed and almost halfway through it when I mistakenly glanced at the clock and wat do u know...it's already 3:00...Believe me, if I said it almost killed me to put it down...<BR>So u might be wondering...wat is it with this book that is &quot;unstoppably un-puttable&quot; --if there's such a word--(assuming u read the synopsis above)It may sound like a typical chic mystery with a little bit of romance..well, it is NOT...The chemistry, or should I say boiling chemistry between Jaine and Sam was just all PEAKS through out the novel, yep, that's right, I guarantee u, that there's no downhill...this book had made me laugh the most times while other novels have their one big nuclear comic relief, this one is like having dozens of firecrackers strewn around the chapters.  It also achieved sincere affections not only from the main characters, Jaine and Sam, but also from the secondary characters--that's not usual, I say.<BR>It is also capable of invoking suspense even if the mystery is really out and naked--which beats the mystery part, if u know wat I mean--but STILL, there is that feeling of dread and anticipation as the psychotic loser hunts each woman.<BR>Ok, there's humor, romance, suspense...wat else did I miss? oh yah, there is drama, with all that crying and grieving, OF COURSE there is DRAMA.  But it's not straight out solid DRAMA.  There's enough humor to keep the novel on its right course.<BR>I still have some misgivings about the plot and the murder outline.  DO NOT EXPECT a Thomas-Harris-Red-Dragon type of serial killing.  It is not.  As for me, I don't care.  It is worth a couple of percentage off my midterm exam.	2004-03-02
US	30231730	R3FX7AGIFJY0S2	0380815575	722221564	The Viscount Who Loved Me (Bridgerton Series, Bk. 2)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	This novel has it all...humor, drama, and romance.	This is my 4th Quinn's novel in the Bridgerton series.  I didnt read \\"the Duke and I\\" yet and I heard it's as good as this one.  This \\"one\\" is not good at all...it is way BETTER than I'd dream it would ever be, metaphorically speaking(not that I actually dreamed about it).  I love Quinn's writing, and I mentioned my admiration on her writing on some of my reviews, so Im not gonna repeat myself.  <BR>     But this novel had pulled stronger emotions and reactions within me than the other titles in the series had not been able to do.  You know those moments, where the author puts the heroine in a really embarassing situation, and u dont know if you wanna laugh at Kate's misfortune, or slam the book, thinking that it will stop the inevitable?  There's not a single page that will put you to sleep.  BUt humor is only a part of this book.  There are also those moments that will surely tug some heartstrings or 2.  The only thing that I dont like is the obvious planned-similarity on Anthony and Kate's past.  I know that is the VERY reason that they are RIGHT for each other, but...for me, it only adds more to it predictableness(if there's such a word).  And then Quinn took it farther with the overly-dramatic carriage incident.  But enough about those observations, coz nothing will ruin this book for me.  <BR>     Contrary to the should-be's-- where Eloise's story or Penelope's story SHOULD have all the witty and smart dialogues for they are portrayed as the cleverest in the group--I find that Anthony and Kate's battle of the insults more engaging, smarter, wittier and sassier on the whole Bridgerton saga.	2004-02-27
US	30231730	R2AA3PPUIOGI54	0671795554	706034749	Remember When (The Foster Saga)	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Sophisticated and very informative	After reading her contemporary novels, I noticed McNaught is very interested with the Business World and future technology.  Like Paradise and Double Standards, Remember When is another novel where the words such as &quot;subsidiary&quot; and &quot;subpoena&quot; are sprinkled around the chapters.  I perfectly understand if some readers complained about being put to sleep and bored to death by this novel.  Im not really a big fan of tycoons or &quot;wall-street-strategies&quot; and McNaught makes it even harder to read or understand.  On some parts, I was wondering if I was reading &quot;Business Today&quot; instead of a romance novel. One of her mistakes is giving it to us RAW and SOLID.  I think she should have interwoven the technicalities with some humor or intimacy instead of dumping it all on 3+ chapters.  On the other hand, I still enjoyed reading this story because it was light and simple.  The story is based on a 2 year old friendship of Cole and Diana who had been separated and who had met again after a period of 14 years.  What I find very phony and unconvincing is the immediate intimacy that miraculously blossomed after 3(or is it 4?) DAYS of alcohol indulgence, a family dinner, and a blast from the past visit at Cole's hometown.  Still, I made excuses for McNaught's ridiculous imagination-put-into-paper by thinking that maybe there was something between Cole and Diana 14 years ago.  I mean, I have no problem with Diana's feelings, but I'm not really sure about Cole's.  I think McNaught has the ability to write dream-like romances by pouring a lot of Machiavellic themes, witty dialogues, heartwrenching love scences, and I'll say they're good but they're too much.  And then she can also create straight and intelligent romance novels by loading them with technical/scientific terms, detached intimacy, and family oriented characters, and I'll say they're lacking and very unsatisfying.  Remember When is obviously the latter of these two choices.  I hope McNaught finds a way how to write an in-between novel, where every criterias are enough in proportions.	2004-02-23
US	30231730	R1CVQR3MC3LIWJ	0380753022	43989638	Gentle Rogue (Malory-Anderson Family)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Well Written and extremely Funny!	If you are in for a light-humourous novel which lack drama and all that emotional stuff, then this is the book u are looking for.  The Malories and Andersens are two eccentric families who are devoted to their own blood with fierce determination.  Georgina is the sister of 5 Andersen brothers.  Surely, u know wat that small detail suggests=) Their protectiveness toward George will be put onto test when James dared to touch their baby sister.  Of course, we can't deny the additional fact of the presence of the Malory clan.  It will be chaos when the two families meet.  I didn't recognize Lindsey's writing in this novel.  She absolutely did a good job and this is probably her best.  If she's not good with drama, I assure u, it is because she's better on making people laugh than crying and thank God for that!	2004-02-21
US	30231730	RE91VN003YMS5	0671737791	378094364	The Bride	Books	4	3	3	N	N	from hookingly funny and touching to downright corny?	I'm not going to deny the fact that this book was ALMOST a 5 if the ending took a different route.  The novel started so differently, even dark and sinister with the funeral introduction and the italicized entries of the secret murderer/ess.  It also promised humour and wit with the welcome  scene of the Baron and his four daughters.   A forced marriage/alliance between a Scot and an English is not a new idea at all nor the Rebecca-type-of-mystery where the ex-wife was secretly murdered and the new mistress will surely put an end to the serial killing.  It is hard to write a mystery especially if u r a Romance writer and that's the kind of writer Garwood is.  I'm not gonna condemn her for not putting any effort on the mystery plot because she did her part(romance and humor)very well.  But there are still some things(details) lacking.  Garwood didn't bother to inject some culture and reality to the characters.  She didn't add the Scottish/Gaelic twist on the dialogues.  She didn't give enough descriptions of Scotland/England; for all I know I was in China.  Instead, she drowned us with dialogues.  I confess, most of the time I prefer the dialogoues instead of the internal thinking or environmental descriptions of the characters.  But too much of something is not good for one's health or in the present case, reading.  I was truly disappointed to see Alec and Jamie's story end.  It didn't satisfy me at all.  It was the kind of story that are written in sequels.  Nevertheless, it was a fun read saved for the ending, which was a little bit overdone.	2004-02-21
US	30231730	RXEZUQJ5DMF9E	0380820854	391607547	To Sir Phillip, With Love (Bridgerton Series, Book 5)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Rather Disappointing =(	After reading a couple of Quinn books, I thought she never had bad days, I guess I was wrong.  I truly love Eloise's character with her to-the-point-attitude and her non-stop bickering.  I was hoping that Quinn would team her up with another interesting character.  I'm going to ignore normal reasoning and indulge myself to  some petty and shallow thinking so if u r hopelessly obssess with JQ, I have to say stop reading this b4 u commit urself into a series of uncalled swearing. I don't really like Sir Phillip.  He's too troubled and he came out phony and unbalance in the end.  I didn't feel a spark between him and Eloise; they didn't suite at all!  I know, I know...I should give him space for his sadistic father and his psychotic wife...but Quinn didn't really succeed to create a dynamic character out of Phillip.  I can still feel that bitterness and some hole in his life.  I mean, his new-father-persona didn't really convince me at all...It's like Phillip jumped from A to E and we're left to wonder where the hell did he hide all the fillings.  I admit the &quot;E&quot; part, I mean the long speech in the ending is truly touching but Quinn didn't present enought proof or basis to create an atmosphere of sincerity.  The ONLY thing I notice and ENJOYED the most was the in dept involvement of the Bridgerton Brothers. That really saved the novel from being a complete bore.  The flower scene also didnt do it for me; that was not original.  After having said all these, Ill say &quot;go read the book&quot; because there's no way you should skip a Bridgerton novel, right?  I know my opinions are not really any encouragements but it's still worth a few hours of ur time because Eloise's brothers and even Amanda and Oliver might fill the gaps (that I was whining about) with humor instead.	2004-02-19
US	30231730	R10RQEIJPS56DS	038077352X	382195301	Dreaming of You	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A romance WORTH dreaming about!	I was filled with so much emotions after reading this book, the kind of emotions that can't be erased by releasing one BIG breath.  Kleypas's writing is very simple and straightforward.  She didn't dwell on long paragraphs nor flaunt her ability as a writer by creating a series of flowery words, metaphors, personifications, etc.  No, she doesn't need to do that.  She didn't manipulate the main characters by succumbing them into the usual-betrayal-jealousy-plots.  Instead, she settled into a simple story of a man troubled by his past who desperately clings to the riches he surrounded himself to protect himself from being aware to that one thing he lacks, that he desires.  Together, Kleypas paired Derek with Sara, a country maid who could have shamed Mother Teresa with her ideals.  At first, I was frustrated at Sara's goodness, thinking it as stupidity and foolishness.  BUt as the story progressed, I realized that Derek, for all his sorrow and cynicism, would at least deserved one thing that is pure and untainted amidst his soiled past.  Kleypas won hundreds of her readers' hearts with oblivious INNOCENCE exchanged during the occasional sweet-talks and heartwrenching moments in their marriage life.  It's also the inevitability of Derek's need and obssession for Sara's presence and love throughout the novel.  The only one thing that I could compain about is the multiple times Derek &quot;SNEERED&quot; &quot;JEERED&quot; or &quot;RETORDED&quot;.  I know the used of such words implies his bitterness, but I hoped Kleypas had used another set of words or situations.  Still, &quot;Dreaming of You&quot; had left an imprint in my heart for it is surely the SWEETEST book I read.	2004-02-18
US	30231730	R2AAP8XLJY01GE	0671742558	7794510	Almost Heaven: A Novel (The Sequels series)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	it's ALMOST heaven	I hope nobody will condemn me for what I have to say.  I already gave it a four-star-review for I know giving it less than that will gain me dozens of &quot;unhelpful-votes&quot;.  Maybe, I'll start with the good stuff.  This novel have excellent humorous dialogues.  McNaught has delivered every witty remarks with style.  I CONGRATULATE her on that part!  I thought I had read all the books that can make me laugh out loud.  I was wrong!  Here is another book that can make a person laugh without him/her doubting the author's abilities.  I also like how she created Elizabeth's and Ian's characters.  There are no denials of their love for each other.  I applaud Ian's honest confession of his feelings for Elizabeth.  It always pleases me to witness a man admits his feelings FIRST before the woman does.  In romance novels, that's surely a rare possibility, and that's one of the parts I like about this novel.  The bad parts are not really that bad.  You see, the humor and anticipation filled the beginning.  The emotions and the excitement were at the end.  I enjoyed both segments extremely well.  BUT...uh-oh...I hate to do this to a 5-star-book especially to a McNaught one, but I have to be honest...The middle is a little bit dry and slow.  I had multiple urges to put down the book and do something else.  Still, I was touched by the sweetness and sincerity of the affection blossoming between Ian and Elizabeth.  I was also impressed that McNaught had succeeded to blend the title, Almost Heaven, at the remaining lines of the novel quite properly(unlike &quot;Until You&quot; which ALMOST turned the whole thing sour for me) which gave the novel a whole new definition.  After these musings, and may I mention that I didn't really say a lot of dreadful things concerning the story line, I have to say that  it was almost good or heaven as my title implies.  That's just because I can name another McNaught novel that'll beat this one, but still, it's worth ur time and Im sure ull enjoy the book like most people did.	2004-02-17
US	30231730	R37Z7MK1MKC8LW	0380820846	788536867	Romancing Mister Bridgerton (Bridgerton Series, Book 4)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Excellent Writing!	This is my second Julia Quinn book, and my obssession to her writing is growing immensely.  In this novel, she specifically writes as if you're watching a movie instead of reading a book.  The \\"movie description\\" is not meant for the plot but for the dialogues themselves.  Sometimes it's annoying and tiresome when writers explain everything, detail by detail, as if you're too stupid to figure things out for urself.  That's what I like about Quinn; she's not worried if her readers might misunderstand some context on her writings.  \\"Romancing Mister Bridgerton\\" is not the best in the series(I'm assuming for this is just my second quinn, as metioned b4) but it was fun to read.  When I read a second novel from the same author, I usually expect repetitions or patterns on the plots.  I was surprised and pleased that it is not so in Quinn's case.  In this novel, she writes about the kind of love that \\"starts with a smile, a word a teasing glance\\" instead of the \\"thunderbolt-from-the-sky\\" type on \\"An Offer from a Gentleman.\\"  I find myself engrossed on every chapters and (shockingly) on the emotional scenes(I used to have a neutral facade when trying to read those kind of scenes on romance novels because they're so predictable), but Quinn had changed that.  She also doesn't end the novel with a make-up chapter or a marriage.  Here, she poured a part of herself that is a writer.  Colin and Penelope had learned that each of them has a talent for writing.  It made me think of the author herself, as I read the part where they are discussing one's joy when he/she find the exact words for their feelings or descriptions for their surroundings.  Of course after good things, there's always a bad thing, even a small one.  To be fair and not be called  biased, I have to say that the story is a little bit slow in the beggining.  Some of the should-be-witty comments turned out not to be witty at all.  All in all, the strong points will definitely beat these weaknesses.  It should be obvious by now that I absolutely recommend this book to everybody.  Pls dont judge the cover by the cheap harlequin type picture on the 1st page.  I almost didnt read it bcoz of that.  I hope the publishers will give Ms. Quinn's talent a little bit more credit.  But I think, Quinn, being the writer, is a 100% aware of the cover so I might as well direct my plea to her.	2004-02-16
US	30231730	R3UM3INQX7YKJU	0380815583	618770208	An Offer From a Gentleman (Bridgerton Series, Bk. 3)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	a fairy tale indeed	First of all,the novel is based on fairy tale, anyone who said that it's PREDICTABLE, well, sorry, but ur just stating the obvious fact.  I've watched and read 20+ different versions of cinderella on films, cartoons, television and fairy tale books; the first time, it was kinda enchanting and magical just like how it should be for 8-yr-old girls.  On the 10th and 11th version, it became a hobby of pointing technical alternations, a glove for a glass slipper, or a housekeeper for a fairy-godmother.  Now, as I read the nth version of Cinderella, I was getting ready on calling the shots as I usually do, and I was disappointed that Quinn didn't even try hard enough to alter any details at all. What she did was even better; she extended the time line of the story, she bent the plot inside out, and she succeeded on breathing life to the overrated kiddie-tale.  I always think the story a little bit lacking and unsatisfactory.  For when the prince found Cinderella, they immediately hit u with their happily-ever-afters.  Let me tell u, this novel didnt end there; it's the beginning instead.  Dont u ever wonder wat will happen if the prince met the pauper b4 the princess?  My wonderings ended shortly as I became engorged with Quinn's magic.  I thought I'll find it absolutely ridiculous if the writer squeezed some of that love-at-first-sight stuff.  It's either professionally disguised or Quinn is just a superb novelist for I never once cringed or bit my lip when I find myself imprisoned with the gooey-mooshy dialogues.  Anyway, this is my first Quinn book, and as sure I am that Danielle Steel's books will never be as entrancing as her studio shots on the jacket cover of her novels, this won't be my last.  It's not often that you find a writer who writes so freely and confidently.  She took hold of the cinderella-plot as if it was her idea all along and not merely a revision.  I like the way she interweaves humor on her scenes, subtle and not deliberate.  Most of all, I like how she grasps human emotions and pour them not in one big splash, but drip by drip onto the right pages, on the exact moments.  And when she knows it's enough, she stops and she doesnt ruin the effect by overdoing it.  A person is a good writer if she doesnt have to convince her readers that she is really good.  And I think Ms Quinn has convinced me completely when she transformed a universal tale of rich-boy;poor-girl type into a whole new story that even grown-ups like me, would surely enjoy.	2004-02-14
US	30231730	R495BA39WEQZ5	0441008534	486021067	Dead Until Dark  (Sookie Stackhouse/True Blood, Book 1)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	a good start	I give it to Harris, she has orginality, well a little bit.  Sookie is expecting the vampire to be an \\"Antoine\\" \\"Francois\\" and all those lovely french names, who could ever think u can also have a Vampire Bill? Harris continued to create a heroine who is a cry-baby, a little bit nutty, and a weakling instead of the usual Buffy/Anita Blake \\"tough-as-nails-vampire slayers\\".  I'm not against this part; it's very refreshing to have a more realistic woman who's not afraid to show her emotions or accept help from the opposite sex.  But she still kept on with the typical love triangle with a shapeshifter, two vampires, and probably a human on the coming series just like the other vampire series out there.  Continuing with the imitations, Sookie is gifted, not just an ordinary human, no-no, that wouldn't be interesting and I have a huge hunch her powers will grow immensely on the 3rd book or 4th book.  Nevertheless, I like how she write, it's light, not so heavy and emotional with a faint attempt on humour.  It's not laugh out loud funny but she has potential.  The mystery is a put-down.  You'll figure out the whole thing half-way through the book.  BUt I know she'll improve on it.  I'll give this 3 stars because Ive read better ones, but I encourage everybody to start the series.  I know the characters and the author will become dear to me as I continue to read and learn about their emotions, principles, conflicts, etc..	2004-02-12
US	30231730	R1XVOUBILVYLMX	0671737627	591607741	Once and Always (The Sequels series)	Books	5	2	4	N	N	good beginning	I admit that Judith McNaught has a flair for drama, and I stopped reading her books after finishing Kingdom of dreams, coz that was just SO corny for me.  But I started reading again  and found out that \\"Once and Always\\" is the perfect, new beginning for me.  Of course, as a McNaught, u'll never run out of those witty come-backs or some of her oh-god-how-i-love-you-so lines from the main characters, and an over the top climax.  When I read McNaught, I forget about realism and I get carried away with the emotions she worked up on both her characters and her readers.  But even as I love this book, there are still some flaws.  I read some stories where the father lost his son and that will be the main conflict in the story where the hero has a hard time getting over the incident.  Here, I find it difficult to believe that Jason has felt something genuine for Jamie, his son.  He didn't even cry when he died, yet he did cry when he thought Victoria died.  I know it made the plot a little easier to maneuver, but I thought that part was a little bit shallow.  Anyway, I still gave this book 5 stars not because of technical or moral weaknesses but because u'll surely enjoy this book and fall in love with it just like I did.	2004-02-10
US	30231730	RTM73X741WKQN	0380776839	687083377	It Had to Be You (Chicago Stars)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	very good movie-ish plot	This is the 1st book in the chicago stars series and I read it last, I sort of read the series backwards, so it'll probably affect my review.  I think this is a very touching book, and I like how Phillips didn't use her usual conflict.  Here both characters have the same rate on the development of their feelings for each other.  I think that's perfect, because Dan here is really looking forward to settle down as opposed to the other Phillips' heroes who marries the heroine out of honor/principles.  What I dont really like about it is the climax where Phoebe got abducted so Dan could lose the game for her. And of course the double touchdown when there's only 2 minutes in the clock.  That's not original.  I think it'll look better in a movie than in a book.  Anyway, I still like how Phillips balanced Dan scenes(point of views) with Phoebe's, especially ending the book through Dan's eyes.  It is a feel-good ending, she didn't overdone it or anything--just right.	2004-02-08
US	30231730	REOMHT94QZQRE	0316769487	862964341	The Catcher in the Rye	Books	5	0	0	N	N	wat a screw-up book	I've heard a lot of things about this book, how it was banned, or how it drove a lot of kids to commit suicide and so I went and got it from the library, to satisfy my curiousity.  I have to admit, it hooked me right at the beginning.  I didn't read this book for school though, so I wasn't forced to analyze it, but I almost wished we did.  I'd been expecting Holden to commit suicide at the very end, but his life turned out the way he feared it would be.  I think that's worst than being dead.  Sometimes, it made me laugh whenever he hit u with another of his endless wry comments.  But sometimes, it makes me wonder, if it really is like the way Holden think it is.  I mean, he views everyone as if they have an evil agenda lurking behind their masks.  He almost convinced me that everybody are like that.  It also made me think twice on how I perceived kids like Holden who get kicked-out from school.  For me, they're just another bunch of losers who doesn't care for their future or their parents' money.  But Holden, he is different.  I mean wat kind of loser who worries about his little sister and her classmates seeing the \\"F***-You\\" vandalism on the walls and who gets depressed when he only gave 10 bucks to those nuns.  And then there's the Mr. Antolini guy.  I thought he was one of those person who Holden can trust and all, and then he turned out to be a pervert.  Im not even gonna share Holden's doubts, but I was almost sure that he can't trust anybody anymore except for his sister and his dead brother, Allie.  Im still not done thinking about this book.  and that's probably why I gave it a five-star rating.  It's one of those books that leaves u baffled. Most books makes things clearer to u.  This book, well, let's just say, it cleared some things to me in a weird kind of way.  I'm not dumb or anything, and I admit I dont understand a lot of things about Holden, but I'm pretty sure it's not a happy ending for Holden.  I know how Holden feels when he told Phoebe that all he wanted to do in his life is to be this catcher of little kids on a rye field.  It really is a simple dream, yet it doesn't exist.  He has to go through all the garbage in the world, before he can find one good thing.  It's sad when that one last good thing turned out rotten.	2004-02-05
US	30231730	R1CMYVZ36BND92	0671747150	728771067	Fancy Pants	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Don't this miss this one!!! or ull regret it	They always say that the 1st written novels are the best...yet, I can't say this book is the best, nor it is the worst.  I read some of the reviews and I was kinda bracing myself for a terrible book, but instead I found a book that is about picking up yourself again after luck has turn its back on u, and yes, it's still a Phillips romance on its best...Most readers find this novel disappointing because it's not your typical boy meets girl on the 1st chapter.  They are too frustrated because it's taking so long for Francesca and Dallie to meet.  I bet they're muttering, &quot;the hell with Chloe and Black Jack, just get it on,&quot;  I didn't mind the history part, it builds the anticipation for the best parts.  You learn about their lives.  You learn to love them when u hated their guts at first.  Like Francesca, I just wanna strangle her on the 1st few chapters.  And sometimes, she's just too dumb and vain, and then halfway through the book, I just wanna cry for her and give her a little push, saying, &quot; go on, u can do it!&quot;  Phillips has once again able to pull some emotions out of her readers. A few times, I banged the book to the wall, and hated the turn of events.  But that's wat makes a good book, if it can make u scream, laugh, or hurt for the characters, I'll say it's worth ur time.  I like Phillips; she's not afraid to embarrass her characters.  Teddy is the best kid Phillips has ever written.  I assure u, Fancy Pants is another winner! Don't let others stopped u from reading it!	2004-02-01
US	30231730	R1ZBAX0PHMNF1W	0553583360	894815376	Slightly Shady	Books	3	0	1	N	N	average	This is my first Amanda Quick book, I've heard so much about her, and read her reviews on my favorite books that I tried one of her books.  For me, Slightly Shady is the kind of book that u can read when there's nothing more available.  It's not boring nor it is hooking.  This is one of those books that u can put down after reading a paragraph or so.  It is not laugh out loud funny but u can see the author's attempt on comedy.  The mystery is a little predictable.  The twist on the ending is not original.  All in all, I'm not totally disappointed. From reading her other reviews in her other novels, I know this is not her best, so I'm giving her another chance.	2004-01-30
US	30231730	RJQ103AHQ7K8N	069452493X	316913360	This Heart of Mine (Chicago Stars)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	good....but the book is better	This is the first novel I listened to after reading the novel itself.  I always believe that it's better to read a book than listen to it, coz u can imagine however u want them to sound, and then there's the abridge and unabridge part.  I'll give it to Van Dyke, She did a wonderful job in reading the novel.  She is a very good actress and knew how to potray every emotions displayed on each scene.  My only disappointment, is the way they cut some of the scenes( a lot of scenes) that should be there. Of course it's an abridge reproduction.  Just a warning to all those who read the novel and planning to buy the audio cassette, Lily's story is gone, but her reunion with her son is still there, and then there's no mention of Cal, no softball game, they also deleted the epilogue part where there's a big celebration in the gazebo with Bobby Tom, Cal, and Kenny, and a lot of more, they are all gone,as in nada.. and then, It's ok that they cut of the scence, but I dont like the way they cut it, and let the listeners assume some things that really didnt happen.  All in all, I still encourage everybody to get the novel instead, just because the story is better off itself without any deletions or alterations.  But as I said before, Jennifer Van Dyke is an excellent reader, and my opinion about of how the story came out has nothing to do with her talent.	2004-01-27
US	30231730	R1UW53GO0FDC98	0380808307	474037079	Just Imagine	Books	4	3	4	N	N	different...but I like it!	It is different from her other books but it is still refreshing.  You notice how all the other SEP's heroines proclaim their undying love at the middle of the book(except for honey moon) and the hero most of the time denies or even leave them, and sometimes it gets annoying coz u it's always the girl who do the job or it's kinda predictable, but dont get me wrong, i love them all, anyway, Just Imagine, being her first book, does not follow the pattern.  Here, both main characters are denying their feelings toward each other... they keep trying to escape it: Kit using Risen Glory as the barrier, and Baron's memories of his childhood kept him from acknowledging his true feelings for KIt. Never until the end did the question of love was mentioned.  This is one of the one-night-stand books where u can't let it go, coz u want to see when they will get along at last.  And that's the main difference from this book and all the other phillips' books--the intimacy and affection just started at the last 5 pages of the book, which is fine by me, coz the ending is surely satisfying.  Of course, just like a good philipp's novel, this is a story about family, love, God, and friendship.	2004-01-26
