US	30246703	RVBMXH2NOZIPK	067155865X	701595783	79 Park Avenue	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Delicious characterization gets lost in a meandering plot.	Okay, first of all I have to say that Robbins was probably commenting on society's obsession with the flesh and flair of a beautiful woman like Marja.  The events in her life revolve around her sexuality and her ability to manipulate others based on that.  However, she loses her purpose, and dreams trying to please them.  The money she wants so badly is important because it will provide her a life her family never had.<br />  I loved the idea, but Im sad to see that her character is a victim of her own circumstances.  I really like her character and want her to do well.	2004-07-05
US	30246703	RTNHH7GKKWOUG	0595190758	230039565	The Christmas Cup	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Ann Megan McCallie will steal your heart.	Though she is all girl, Nancy Ruth Patterson's main character in The Christmas Cup is memorable and promising.  She is smart, fun, dignified, and sincere.  For Megan, as the others lovingly call her, life's cup overfloweth with love.  Unfortunately, Megan is an uncommon personality today.<br />  Megan will definitely appeal to her real life peers because of her common simplicity.  She is realistic in so many ways.  She looks up to her grandmother and her mother.  Her appearance seems to reflect her mother's beauty, as well as capture the attention of \\"the best looking boy in her class\\".  Megan is also an inquisitive eight year old who discovers more about herself through her observance of others.<br />  Megan will appeal to adults because her character holds the keys to innocence and imagination lost in our own adolsecence.  Megan is admired by so many and doesn't even realize it.  She is the good kid that everybody likes.  She is also the loveable puppy at times because she is always questioning those around her.  She puts others first easily.<br />  Megan will appeal to the older gnereations because of her responsiblity and charity.  She considers herself unlucky but is actually gifted and blessed by a loving family, a gracious creator, and a warm accepting community.<br />  Though the story is short, I fell in love with Megan McCallie and I would like to read other adventures with her in them, if the author ever wrote any.	2003-12-29
US	30246703	R1H86W8Y55EENU	0399215328	798627887	Goodbye My Wishing Star	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Full of Missouri Charm	When I first met Jens Tucker, the protagonist of this little story, I wasn't sure I liked her very much.  She was prone to bursting into tears, getting upset about the slightest things, and as others in the story point out, a little bit bossy.  But as I read further, I found a lot of character traits I do like about her.  The fact that her character has flaws makes this story even more likeable because of it's realism.<br />  Jens is a pretty normal girl with growing problems.  When she realizes that her family is going to have to move and give up their family home, Jennifer is distraught.  It takes a picture of true poverty, and the hope envisioned by a local \\"prophet\\"  for Jens to realize that life is not always fair.  Jens' character is more loveable when seen in the relationship she shares with her father, her mother, and her best friend Marla.<br />  I strongly recommend this book to anyone who is facing the hardships that accompany moving.  While there are so many families in our world following the wind, it may be rarer than ever to find a family like the Tuckers.  Still, the importance of keeping home in the heart is a fantastic theme as well as a reminder of what really matters.	2003-12-21
US	30246703	R2OWES8SFOKWGX	0374361711	791743379	Rain Rain Rivers	Books	3	8	10	N	N	Teacher finds book sweet and charming.	I read this book nearly ten years ago, and have forgotten much of my experience with it.  Since it was one of my selections for my Children's Literature Class in college, I do have a completed review.<br />SUMMARY:  Rain patters on the window, rain patters on the roof.  Rain patters all over town on the people and in the streets.  As rain patters everything a nameless little girl imagines streams streaming, rivers rushing, and the sea swelling to swallow up the sky.  Rain falls all around, and one little girl leaps over \\"pieces of the sky\\" as she watches the world around her grow.<br />CRITIQUE:  This poetic celebration of rain is an interesting and familiar way to view a grey and gloomy day.  Using strong descriptions and watercolor pictures, the author effectively pours emotions and senses over everything throughout the book.  Though the book is geared for younger children, readers of all ages will appreciate the book's poetry and art.<br />ACTIVITY SUGGESTION:  Perfect for a rainy day.  After reading this book with a young child, especially on a rainy day, provide supplies and guideance in making Watercolor Pieces of the Sky.  Cut paper into odd puddle-like shapes before painting.  Older children should be encouraged to explore possiblities not mentioned in the book.  Since puddles are reflections of life, this may be a good time for them to reflect on something about themselves to include in their painting.	2003-07-27
US	30246703	R2JGGBMM7SHB8A	0312598130	670128180	Patterns for college writing: A rhetorical reader and guide	Books	3	10	14	N	N	This isn't just another college text.	For me, this collection of student and author essays was worth the purchase alone.  However the chapters are also helpful how-tos for writing research papers and essays in college.  The book provides a thorough look at different types of writing expected in college.<br />I remember using this book frequently.  I also remember how much I had to write in college.  The amount of paper I used in college is staggering.  It is reflective of the move to higher expectations in society for composing professional writing.<br />I can't stress enough the importance of reading and writing as a learning tool.  Through writing, students, readers and others can record their thoughts, become more expressive, and be more effective communicators.<br />Gradually the internet and the world wide web have made us more and more reckless with our writing.  Books like this can only be beneficial.  Chapters address essays, research papers, analysis , and reading responses.  Although newer editions are available, the same high quality found in this edition can be expected.  I have three editions of this book.  All have been helpful.	2003-07-26
US	30246703	R3GWSIJLH4LHXO	0891074201	845651025	Children at Risk	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Values are never obsolete.	David Porter highlights several trends and popular fads that could endanger family values in his 1987 book Children at Risk.  Though the fads, trends and threats Porter addresses were vibrant in the 80's when this book was published, many of the threats are still very real.  Parents will benefit from this eye opening book and discover just how naive they really are.<br />  Today, in 2003, a vibrant media frenzy challenging parents to get involved in their children's lives is a call to arms for families everywhere.  The media have the right idea in many respects, but don't always approach sensitive subjects from a Christian perspective.  David Porter does this.  Sex, drugs, alcohol, television, movies, cartoons, games, gangs and other threats are still lurking in our neighborhoods and public schools.<br />  While more recent publications may be more practical to today's parents, this book is still a useful resource.  It should be a part of any church or parenting library.  The values that Porter clings to are still important to families today.  Honesty, trust, respect, life, and sexual purity are all being questioned through graphic violence and adult themes.  Parents distraught over Orange County, Paradise Hotel, Eminem, Pink, Nelly, Grand Theft Auto: Vice City, Harry Potter, and Yu-gi-oh! might find reflections of their woes in this collection.  Porter also provides suggestions.<br />  This book is also a time capsule.  It depicts the popular culture that children in the 80's struggled with on a daily basis.  Today, similar threats are very real.  Though the moral climate is shifting rapidly, it's more important now than ever to remember those values that preserve family, faith, and spiritual righteousness.	2003-07-16
US	30246703	R29APH1ACSSZEA	0803786484	96625162	There Is Someone	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Imaginative and original with classic charm.	This whimsical picture book leads readers on an imaginative escape through various things a girl with an imaginary friend might see and do. She takes her friend everywhere and compares her to reality in a number of amusing little ways.<br />The illustrations, blackline drawings with 2-4 Letrafilm overlays, are very simplistic but recognizable. They do not distract from the story. Children will appreciate them because of their bold simplicity.  Small children may try to color them.<br />Each page is an illustration with a simple sentence explaining the picture. The story is written mostly in cryptic statements that make the reader ponder what the author means. The novelty of such an amusing story is this book's best attribute.<br />The kids at my library loved the story because of its absurdity. I read it to a rowdy group at tell me a story time. I enjoyed telling them the story mostly because it was fresh and unfamiliar. Though the book is older, it hasn't lost its charm.<br />This is another library book that I don't own. I hope to own a copy someday.  It is perfect as a gift either to a child with a big imagination, a timid little girl, a beginiing reader, or even as a &quot;Get Well&quot; card for someone struggling with coping.  Hopefully this book will continue to circulate with kids today.	2003-07-12
US	30246703	RKL6G1NMTJXXW	0590477439	568288946	Go Eat Worms (Goosebumps, No. 21)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Twenty First Goosebumps story tests readers' mettle.	This particular story outlines the nightmare that sixth grader Todd Barstow faces when worms appear to become a very annoying part of his life.  Todd is a worm fanatic from the start.  He even keeps a worm farm in his basement.  The creatures fascinate him and represent his interest in science.  Todd also enjoys teasing his sister Regina and her best friend Beth Baker. Todd's mischievous and \\"gross\\" pranks soon turn into his own living nightmare.<br />  As the story unfolds, Todd and his best friend Danny chuckle as they dangle worms before Regina and Beth.  They even dig them up and collect them for Todd's farm.  Eventually, Stine reveals that Todd plans to use them in a science project for school.  They continue digging for worms every chance they get until they meet Patrick.  Both Danny and Todd are shocked to discover that Patrick has a very different idea for the science fair, using worms as well.<br />  Todd begins to think that it's more than just a coincidence when the pranks he and Danny used to play on his sister start happening to him.  Patrick is Todd's primary suspect as worms turn up everywhere. They are in his homework, his locker, his bed, his shower, and even start showing up in his food.  Soon Todd realizes that Patrick is not involved and that his worms have become obsessed with him.<br />  R.L. Stine's Goosebumps books are a popular series that continue to captivate readers in primary to intermediate elementary grades.  Stine's style is creative, eerie and interesting.  Kids easily adapt to the characters who are realistic and colorful without being too complex.  (They are almost interchangeable with other Goosebumps stories because of their simplicity and realism.)  The setting usually compliments the story well and reflects ordinary places that most kids quickly recognize.<br />  The most effective element however is the plot.  Stine's stories are straight from the imagination.  The novelty of each tale is chilling and eerie with a twist of fun.  The plot lines are intriguing enough to entertain readers of all ages, yet simplistic enough to keep reluctant readers involved.  Goosebumps make a satisfying leisurely read for avid readers that can be shared with reluctant and beginning readers as well.<br />  I strongly recommend Goosebumps books for every teacher because they are adaptable to the curriculum in so many ways.  The themes, and events present many opportunities for exciting dialogue and can be utilized for a variety of different hands on assignments.  Most of all, the Goosebumps stories encourage reading.  That in itself is strong enough reason to keep at least one handy.a twist of fun.  The plot lines are intriguing enough to entertain readers of all ages, yet simplistic enough to keep reluctant readers involved.  Goosebumps make a satisfying leisurely read for avid readers that can be shared with reluctant and beginning readers as well.  <BR>     I strongly recommend Goosebumps books for every teacher because they are adaptable to the curriculum in so many ways.  The themes, and events present many opportunities for exciting dialogue and can be utilized for a variety of different hands on assignments.  Most of all, the Goosebumps stories encourage reading.  That in itself is strong enough reason to keep at least one handy.	2003-07-11
US	30246703	R2O7HH62ITMGU5	059035342X	667539744	Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone	Books	5	3	3	N	N	An exciting adventure, an incredible fantasy	It's hard not to get swept up in the Harry Potter fad with such a great story, fantastic characters and exciting plot lines. This will probably be the shortest review ever, because anything I have to say about Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone would be an echo of a thousand other reviewers. This book belongs in every reader's collection.<br />  I have thought long and hard about my Christian faith and the witchcraft, sorcery and \\"Dark Arts\\" mentioned in the novel. Rowling makes adistinction between good and bad magic. Christian belief does not. As a Christian I approach this book with a confidence in my own faith, realizing that the story is fiction. It has a place in society, and in literature. It may not have a place in the life of every Christian, but I thoroughly enjoyed it. I don't believe in practicing magic, but I don't believe this is a reason to avoid reading the novel.<br />  Rowling is fantastic in every way as an author. Characters, setting, plot, conflict, pace, and mood. All of these things contribute to the fantastic story and the craze for Harry potter.	2003-07-09
US	30246703	R2CT07KG0NI5WP	0440466334	807610489	On My Honor	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Deep, intense and probing questions for all	On My Honor is a heartwrenching story of guilt and responsibility. I read this book quickly in one sitting. It was amazing. It was depressing. It definitely deserved the Newberry Honor Medal it received.<br />Marion Dane Bauer is a great author. Her characters are rich and personable. Readers quickly fall in with the protagonist, Joel, a bright boy with a strong conscience. Joel is the source of approval for many, including his best friend Tony. As Bauer writes, it becomes apparent, that the only commonality between the two friends is the fact that they were nearly the same age and lived across the street from each other.<br />Bauer wastes no time presenting the conflict. Joel struggles to stand firm in his beliefs against Tony's taunting dares and flamboyant disregard for safety. Joel quickly realizes after tragedy strikes that even his faith in his father's good judgement isn't enough. When Tony dies, nothing can comfort Joel, who makes a rash decision to disregard his own conscience.<br />I appreciate the way the author emphasizes the role parents play in teaching their children responsibility and the joint effort necessary in sharing guilt when misplaced responsibility backfires. Joel's father, does his best to comfort Joel, and even shares the responsibility for Joel's guilt. As a teacher, I meet many parents who are unwilling to take responsibility for their children's actions, decisions, and mistakes. This book points out the importance and role parents must play in the lives of their children.<br />I really got wrapped up in this story. I was however very disppointed in the ending. Joel spends the majority of the novel struggling with guilt. In an effort to absolve himself from responsibility Joel weaves a series of painful lies that affect both families deeply. Bauer never really resolves this. When the truth comes out, Joel runs from the consequences. Though he may never escape the impact his decisions have on himself, there is no resolution for Joel's responsibility to Tony's family. The pain that both families must face will take time to heal and will have a lasting impact on all readers.<br />I was also disappointed in Bauers disregard for spiritual comfort. She brings up the ideas of God, Heaven and afterlife, only to disregard them. This probably reflects Bauer's own beliefs, however, and must be recognized as such.<br />\\"Do you believe in Heaven?\\" (Joel) asked at last. \\"Do you believe Tony's gone there?\\"<br />His father bent toward him. \\"If there is a heaven, I'm sure Tony's gone there,\\" he replied. \\"I can't imagine a heaven that could be closed to charming reckless boys.\\"<br />If! Joel felt as he were sinking through the bed. \\"What do you mean...if there's a heaven?\\"<br />\\"I dont suppose anybody knows....\\"<br />Christian readers will find little comfort, and even less familiarity in this novel.<br />I recommend this book to anyone who appreciates a very dramatic read. It is also a good book that addresses guilt, lying, death and responsibility. Joel's struggle represents the struggle all preteens face when compromising the responsibilities and confidence their parents have placed in them.responsibility to Tony's family. The pain that both families must face will take time to heal and will have a lasting impact on all readers.<br />I was also disappointed in Bauers disregard for spiritual comfort. She brings up the ideas of God, Heaven and afterlife, only to disregard them. This probably reflects Bauer's own beliefs, however, and must be recognized as such. <BR>\\"Do you believe in Heaven?\\" (Joel) asked at last. \\"Do you believe Tony's gone there?\\" <BR>His father bent toward him. \\"If there is a heaven, I'm sure Tony's gone there,\\" he replied. \\"I can't imagine a heaven that could be closed to charming reckless boys.\\"<BR>If! Joel felt as he were sinking through the bed. \\"What do you mean...if there's a heaven?\\"<BR>\\"I dont suppose anybody knows....\\"<BR>Christian readers will find little comfort, and even less familiarity in this novel. <br />I recommend this book to anyone who appreciates a very dramatic read. It is also a good book that addresses guilt, lying, death and responsibility. Joel's struggle represents the struggle all preteens face when compromising the responsibilities and confidence their parents have placed in them.	2003-07-09
US	30246703	R1BNP9TJ19E2YP	0962619701	875104560	Call of the Rainbow Warrior: An Environmental Fable	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Great story to use in oral tradition.	This book is more of a persuasive pamphlet than a work of entertaining fiction.  Three chapters of the book are dedicated to the story (declared a fable by the author) of a man in the lumber industry.  He struggles briefly against the frustration of \\"Eco Freaks\\" as the author penned it, as well as his divorce, and his weakening relationship with his own children.<br />  Twyla Dell has all the makings of an incredible plot and fantastic story.  Her hero, Rich Lawless, is the normal man struggling to cement his identity amidst his misplaced devotion to work over family, and illusion of success over security.  Several subplots are mentioned, including, Kim's (his daughter) graduation, strange and colorfully eerie nightmares reflecting his own demise as a victim of careless resource management, disgruntled employees who struggle for civil rights, and the buzz of an ever tightening economy.  However, she sacrifices these to relay the message that her book represents.<br />  The last two chapters of the book, written more like appendices, include a bibliography of ecological readings called Your Environmental Bookshelf, and a chapter that explains what one person can do to become a Rainbow Warrior.  The bibliography is full of books written by environment conscious organizations and groups; these are recommended as required fare for would be Rainbow Warriors.<br />  Overall the story was a good idea, albeit too brief.  The author's style is simple and comfortable.  Her descriptions clarify a beautiful setting.  Her characters are genuine and show potential for connecting with all of us.  If she ever expands her story to a novel I'm sure it would be a worthwhile reading.<br />  I am frustrated, however, by the lecture overtones that dominate this publication.  I believe in the message that is being presented.  I also believe that this book is not a good vehicle for persuasion.  This book will be popular with people who already do their best for the environment.  Because her story is brief, it will do little to awaken the Rainbow Warrior in any who do not sympathize with her efforts.<br />  I like the idea of publishing a piece of fiction to stir the consciousness of a greedy community of humans carelessly wrecking a fragile environment.  I just wish that Dell had put more effort into it.  Perhaps deadlines, or editorial purpose caused the brevity of her story.  It would be interesting to see if she wrote anything else.<br />  I recommend this book more for its practical value than its entertainment ability.  Give it as a gift to someone who heartily fights for the environment.  They will find it valuable and may even appreciate the story more than I did.  If you share it with others, share it as fables were meant to be shared, tell the story orally.use her story is brief, it will do little to awaken the Rainbow Warrior in any who do not sympathize with her efforts.  <BR>   I like the idea of publishing a piece of fiction to stir the consciousness of a greedy community of humans carelessly wrecking a fragile environment.  I just wish that Dell had put more effort into it.  Perhaps deadlines, or editorial purpose caused the brevity of her story.  It would be interesting to see if she wrote anything else.  <BR>   I recommend this book more for its practical value than its entertainment ability.  Give it as a gift to someone who heartily fights for the environment.  They will find it valuable and may even appreciate the story more than I did.  If you share it with others, share it as fables were meant to be shared, tell the story orally.	2003-07-08
US	30246703	RHIIAZWQWAWTT	0671042858	321732450	The Girl Who Loved Tom Gordon	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Fantastic book from a teacher's perspective.	Wow!  This is my first Stephen King read and I absolutely loved it!  I picked this book up through one of the book orders at STMS in Herculaneum.  I really loved this book.  King tampers with my emotions enough to make this book a keeper.  I think reviewers who were disappointed with this book were avid King readers, and may have anticipated more from him.  It's refreshing when an actor can adapt to different roles on the screen, so it is also fantastic that King is able to cater to the needs of varying readers.<br />  Trisha McFarland is a 9 year old girl who is very ordinary in many ways.  She is tired of her mother and brother bickering, tired of being ignored, tired of being taken for granted.  When she slips out of sight of her family, Trisha soon realizes that she may as well have been forgotten.  Lost in the deep forests of Northeastern America, Trisha must rely on her instincts, courage, and imagination to keep her alive.<br />  King practices so many qualities that I look for in an author.  His use of description is satisfying.  He reminds me so much of Ray Bradbury in his descriptive style.  King uses symbollic and imaginative descriptions that stir emotional reactions in the reader making the story very real and personal.<br />  King's ability to balance readers and characters on the narrow line between sanity and insanity is tendered by his use of suspense, and stretching the limits of the hero's endurance. He tests our tolerance for his slow and deliberate taxing of a well designed character.  It drives me crazy  to think about a ten year old girl surviving many of the things Trisha had to survive.<br />  Finally, King keeps things very real.  There is nothing in this story that could not haunt the rest of us forever because of its solubility in reality.  I don't think I've read anything more satisfying for a while.  Each barrier Trisha faces is believeable.  Her mental interpretations of these realities is reasonable even when she starts hallucinating.<br />  I fell in love with Trish McFarland as a character because she is strong, courageous, and creative.  She is a fighter and a survivor.  She is the kind of girl that inspires me to be a better teacher because she is strong and confident, always looking for ways around obstacles instead of letting them be excuses for her not to learn  or improve.  Too bad more kids can't be like that.<br />  So why realease such a fantastic book? ... Hey I'm keeping my copy!  Eventually I want it hard bound.  I'm releasing copies of this one to people who inspire me.  It is truly a practical book for a controlled release.  I'm excited to read what others have said about this book.  I know it must have been a popular title. King has always been a popular author.  Now I know why.g.  <BR>   I fell in love with Trish McFarland as a character because she is strong, courageous, and creative.  She is a fighter and a survivor.  She is the kind of girl that inspires me to be a better teacher because she is strong and confident, always looking for ways around obstacles instead of letting them be excuses for her not to learn  or improve.  Too bad more kids can't be like that.  <BR>   So why realease such a fantastic book? ... Hey I'm keeping my copy!  Eventually I want it hard bound.  I'm releasing copies of this one to people who inspire me.  It is truly a practical book for a controlled release.  I'm excited to read what others have said about this book.  I know it must have been a popular title. King has always been a popular author.  Now I know why.	2003-07-08
US	30246703	R24PIWGEHYKCDM	0399144463	305463091	Who Moved My Cheese?: An Amazing Way to Deal with Change in Your Work and in Your Life	Books	5	1	7	N	N	Ahhh...the power of  cheese.  Not just another fable.	I have to thank Kim for pointing this one out. As a teacher constantly worrying over budget cuts, and my position in this big, wide world, I confided in Kim (a first year teacher in our district) many times to find the positive in looking for something better and bigger. Honestly, this past spring was a time of searching for me. I didn't look hard, mostly because I trusted God to show me the way. God said stay put, but this book spoke to me also.<br />Kim lent me the book one spring afternoon and strongly suggested that I read this book. It was fantastic! I loved every page. I actually had the book read Friday evening before the weekend ever really began.<br />Dr. Spencer Johnson tells a modern fable about 4 creatures that handle \\"searching\\" for something important to them very differently. Sniff uses smell to find his way to the cheese (which becomes symbollic for anything the individual may deem important). Scurry, uses deliberate thoroughness but efficiency and speed to find his cheese. Sniff and Scurry are simply mice, in a maze where the cheese is hidden in various places. However they share this setting with two other characters called \\"littlepeople\\".<br />Most of us are Littlepeople. Johnson introduces us to Hem and Haw. Hem and Haw see the cheese as holding a significance deeper than the mice do. To them cheese may represent family, money, success, work, relationships, etc. Both Hem and Haw deal with the loss of cheese very differently. In the end one of them learns something very valuable that applies to all of us in our search for something important in our own lives.<br />This was a fast and fantastic read. It helped me better understand that life is full of obstacles and change. We all have to deal with these things. The way we deal with them is what is most important. Above all this book made me feel so much better about myself in my career.<br />I recommend this book to anyone who ever struggles with questions of why, how and \\"when is such-and-such going to happen for me?\\" It clarifies the thinking process needed to survive change and makes me realize that change is very important to my success as an individual.<br />I also like the illustrated blocks of cheese with motivational quotes in them. Although I didn't take the time to do it, these easily could be photocopied and hung up as reminders and personal motivators. I still recommend, however, that anyone dealing with change consult God first. I mean after all, it is just cheese.h going to happen for me?\\" It clarifies the thinking process needed to survive change and makes me realize that change is very important to my success as an individual. <br />I also like the illustrated blocks of cheese with motivational quotes in them. Although I didn't take the time to do it, these easily could be photocopied and hung up as reminders and personal motivators. I still recommend, however, that anyone dealing with change consult God first. I mean after all, it is just cheese.	2003-07-08
US	30246703	R22GA1ELUQ1LWA	0840795416	681446452	Creative Dating	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Love can be found anywhere, given the right idea.	This is a really fun book! I bought it back in 1986 when I was in high school. Ah! The girls I charmed. Woohoo! I'm the man!<br />  Okay...all foolishness aside. I really like this book. I participated in a dating workshop at a Christian camp (Windermere) that allowed me to share many ideas that I adapted from this book. It also inspired me to be a better date, a better friend, and a better Christian.<br />  Doug Fields and Todd Temple have created a fantastic book full of creative ideas, witty admirations, and several chapters that include how-tos on sending notes, buying gifts and saying \\"I love you.\\" I know this book and the authors were very popular when I was growing up, but I'm not sure how today's teens and young adults would recieve them. Still, the ideas are fantastic!<br />  Each idea is rooted in several basic principles of a loving relationship. The ideas in this book are creative and fun, which love must always be. They are sincere and honest, definitely a requirement. Each idea is rooted in principles of equality and independence of the individuals involved. A successful relationship, as Pastor Dinsmore once told me, is dependent on both members remaining independent individuals. These principles aren't the content of the book though! They are just the outcomes of some really great date ideas!<br />  Amusing illustrations by Steve Bjorkman accompany varying date ideas. These witty little cartoons make light the subject of that awkward moment when two people come together for the first time. The authors also include details of \\"Worst Dates\\". These worst dates include quotes and detail the tragic events that occurred from real readers' experiences. (The authors are renowned youth group leaders and teen advisors.) The ideas in the book can be used by both boys and girls and they are definitely appropriate for married couples.<br />  Some of the best ideas in this book are \\"Run for Your Money\\" on page 33 which suggests the mischievous couple spread \\"fifteen dimes, twenty nickles and fourty eight pennies\\" out on a sidewalk outside a movie theater \\"two minutes before the children's matinee lets out.\\" (Genius!) On page 99 \\"Day Camp\\" is a fun idea that costs a little more than $2.98 but promises to be entertaining for a group.<br />  Finally, I want to recommend everyone read this book. Unless for some reason you just can't stand communicating with other people, you will enjoy the ideas in this book. Don't save all these ideas for one date though! Have fun sharing these moments over time. I haven't been able to ever put this book down. It is definitely a keeper that will be with my family for a very long time.  I agree with the previous customer reviewer; this makes a fantastic wedding, anniversary or engagement gift!dimes, twenty nickles and fourty eight pennies\\" out on a sidewalk outside a movie theater \\"two minutes before the children's matinee lets out.\\" (Genius!) On page 99 \\"Day Camp\\" is a fun idea that costs a little more than $2.98 but promises to be entertaining for a group. <BR>   Finally, I want to recommend everyone read this book. Unless for some reason you just can't stand communicating with other people, you will enjoy the ideas in this book. Don't save all these ideas for one date though! Have fun sharing these moments over time. I haven't been able to ever put this book down. It is definitely a keeper that will be with my family for a very long time.  I agree with the previous customer reviewer; this makes a fantastic wedding, anniversary or engagement gift!	2003-07-08
US	30246703	R2XRDOVHSVTQYR	0812519566	94704216	The Lady Or The Tiger (Tor Classics)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	A fun collection of fantastic imaginative stories.	I regret waiting until I was 31 to read this gem.  It appears this book has been well read and well recognized the world over for some reason or other.  I never have heard of it until I picked it up in a second hand book store.  I sure am glad I did.<br />  Stockton wrote in the late 1800s to early 1900s.  His works, mostly fiction, tell stories of the oddest occurences and strangest events.  However, they are amusing and linger in the readers mind and heart, making his writing resilient.<br />  I haven't shared these stories with my students yet, but I certainly plan on doing so.  The title story and it's sequel are great reads, but I also found The Griffon and the Minor Canon to be just as entertaining.  Our Archery Club will also stick with me for a long time to come.<br />  Stockton's style is excellent.  He creates complex plots surrounding profound paradox and irony.  This is appealing for its witty impact and satirical humor.  His characters are genuine, colorful and memorable.<br />  Stockton also demands a little more than an attentive audience with his readers.  He penned interactive literature with the title story and its sequel, but also demands that listeners or readers be thinkers.  He tends to tuck moral and ethical principles in his stories as well, but this does not make them preachy in any way.<br />  The copy I have is an older publication of this mass market paperback edition.  I would like to find a collection of Stockton's stories in an anthology, but I'm not sure one exists.  I believe that everybody should read Stockton's work and that he should be remembered as one of America's best authors of adolescent literature.	2003-07-07
US	30246703	R165JKP8VSFRZK	0804900868	537609961	The Jungle	Books	4	4	5	N	N	A must read classic, despite the political diversions.	Sinclair did not write this novel to expose the meat industry, but that is exactly what happened when it was published.  Panic spread like wildfire through society as people all over discovered what was in their favorite dinner fare.  Today, commercials may say \\"Beef--it's what's for dinner\\" or \\"Pork, the other white meat\\" but readers beware.  Though industry standards have changed, meat still has to be processed and there simply is no pleasant way to do that.<br />  Sinclair wrote this book in dismay with the democratic system of politics in America.  His frustration with the social stratification that destroyed the family of his main character is genuine and understandable.  It is also probably a very accurate depiction of what it is like to be a immigrant in the 1800s.  Sinclair includes the explosion of the industrial revolution and shakes an angry fist at industrial monopolization.  I'd like to do the same to giants like Microsoft.  Id probably be misunderstood too though.<br />  The book begins with Jurgis Rudkus and his marriage to a young and beautiful bride, Ona Berczynskas.  The Lithuanian family gathering is incredible.  People everywhere dancing making music and celebrating the union of two young hearts swollen with love.  We meet the members of Jurgis family and realize that family is a common and indellible thread through all societies and cultures.  As they celebrate their marriage in America, it quickly becomes apparent what conflicts they must face.<br />  The young couple is working for one of America's largest businesses.  They are poor and in a foriegn land.  Processing meat is only one, albeit the main, endeavor that Brown and Company participates in.  Despite their dawn to dusk commitment, they are treated with the worst conditions and filth that any family would hate to endure.  Soon it is apparent that they are in over their heads surrounded by greed, corruption, poverty, sickness, crime, and inequality.<br />  The story tells of Jurgis' fall from the happiness of a young and loving family to despise and hatred for the economy and society that drove him away from the only member of his family to survive.  He must endure prison, debts, weather, disease, and homelessness in his quest for freedom.  He even attempts to escape society by avoiding the city of Chicago where the story takes place.  His freeloading life however is not enough to distinguish the pains he feels from losing his family.  In the end, Jurgis turns to the rallying voice of socialism that continually rumbles in the depths of the same city that killed his spirit.<br />  Sinclair leaves us with the impression that socialism would solve all of America's problems.  Inequality, injustice, poverty, disease, and crime are all very real threats that we hope to alleviate through political means.  However the reception of this novel on American society must have been a shock and a frustration.  Still, The Jungle is a classic that has a place in my heart, mind and on my shelf forever.  Everybody should read it to better understand the voices in the world today and the debts humanity must pay.l from the happiness of a young and loving family to despise and hatred for the economy and society that drove him away from the only member of his family to survive.  He must endure prison, debts, weather, disease, and homelessness in his quest for freedom.  He even attempts to escape society by avoiding the city of Chicago where the story takes place.  His freeloading life however is not enough to distinguish the pains he feels from losing his family.  In the end, Jurgis turns to the rallying voice of socialism that continually rumbles in the depths of the same city that killed his spirit.<BR>   Sinclair leaves us with the impression that socialism would solve all of America's problems.  Inequality, injustice, poverty, disease, and crime are all very real threats that we hope to alleviate through political means.  However the reception of this novel on American society must have been a shock and a frustration.  Still, The Jungle is a classic that has a place in my heart, mind and on my shelf forever.  Everybody should read it to better understand the voices in the world today and the debts humanity must pay.	2003-07-06
US	30246703	R1JNG62EVQS9VN	0515090166	103586426	The Cat Who Saw Red	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A comfortable read for LJB fans.	My mom loves these books!  She gave me this one because she thought I'd love them too.  I did enjoy reading it a great deal, but it was a bit bland for me.  I don't say that because Lilian Jackson Braun is a poor writer...she's fantastic. Her characters are adorable, loveable and genuine.  The setting is creative and chilling.  Even the plot is intriguing.  When I read, I like my emotions to be stirred a bit more than this book did.<br />  I admit this is the first I've read in the series, and I understand that may contribute to the distaste I have for it, since its actually not the first book of the series.  Conflicting reviewers say its the fourth, fifth or sixth book. To really know I think I better check out her website.  Those editorial reviews might be more helpful too!<br />  Okay, so what is likeable about this book?  Simply put, the characters make the whole series popular.  Qwilleran, a reporter with a funny name, is the man who drives the need to know for each case.  I like Qwill because he shares many similarities with me.  He writes and I've always fancied myself as a reporter.  He loves cats; hard not to for me.  He also observes people.  In this book, Qwilleran reunites with an old flame and finds himself seething at his discovery of her demise.<br />  The other two participants in Braun's whimsical mystery are Koko and Yum Yum.  These cats are as personified as Qwill himself and take as much part in the action of the story as others do.  One of them even saves Qwill's life in a round-a-bout way.  Anybody who loves cats is going to fall hard for these two adorable sidekicks.<br />  Best of all is Braun's affectionate style.  She demands nothing more from the reader than a liesurely audience.  I like her attention to details affectionate descriptions and penchant for ordinary experiences in extraordinary ways.  I also like that she uses interesting facts and victuals of knowledge to satiate the readers cravings for intellectual stimulation.<br />  On the down side, I think I want more emotional or spiritual stimulation from my readings.  I tend to cling to books with strong ties to emotional highs and lows.  Though this book provided the opportunity for that (especially when Qwill's crush becomes one of the victims), I didn't feel the same excitement I have felt reading other books.<br />  I'm not putting this book down though.  I enjoyed it enough to keep it and share with others.  My students will also enjoy it's characters.  I plan to do a book talk with it for my students at a middle school.  I don't really suspect them to read it, but it will make a nice diversion from the ordinary and will introduce them to a great popular contemporary author.he down side, I think I want more emotional or spiritual stimulation from my readings.  I tend to cling to books with strong ties to emotional highs and lows.  Though this book provided the opportunity for that (especially when Qwill's crush becomes one of the victims), I didn't feel the same excitement I have felt reading other books.<br />  I'm not putting this book down though.  I enjoyed it enough to keep it and share with others.  My students will also enjoy it's characters.  I plan to do a book talk with it for my students at a middle school.  I don't really suspect them to read it, but it will make a nice diversion from the ordinary and will introduce them to a great popular contemporary author.	2003-07-06
US	30246703	R2CJHBGDALTR8G	0394874145	193087832	Garfield: Big Fat Book of Jokes and Riddles	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Childlike Fun; Classic Popularity	Garfield has always been popular.  The biggest surprise I got came when I found out the author and illustrator were both people other than Jim Davis.  Though I haven't researched it to find out if the author or illustrator were pen names or pseudonyms for Mr. Davis, I really doubt they are.<br />  Still, the illustrator remains true to Davis's characters in my opinion.  In fact, I didn't even know the illustrations were made by people other than Davis until I read the credits.  Three colors are used throughout the book keeping each illustration bold, eye catching and simple.  The illustrations nicely complement the content and are peppered throughout the book.<br />  The content is light and fun.  Katy Hall writes silly puns, jokes, rhymes and riddles in true Jim Davis style.  Her use of witty punchlines makes this a favorite for all ages.  The book is geared for children, but as always, any age can appreciate the simplicity of a silly joke.  Cartoons, trivia, and whacky definitions are also included.<br />  I recommend this book if you enjoy light humor.  It may even complement a Garfield collector's archives.  It is a good reminder that laughter is always the best medicine.	2003-07-05
US	30246703	R1UMHWZCI4CTCN	156245305X	125352597	Social Disgraces: Etiquette for the Socially Impaired	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Disgracefully Funny	Honestly, I have no idea where I got this little tome of laughter!  It wasn't a hearty, fall out of your seat and pee your pants kind of laughter for me though.  I chuckled and mused at the funny anecdotes, tips and whimsical advice that this book offered.  It makes fun of our babaric nature and touches on all the annoying little things that make us want to beat each other over the heads with umbrellas.<br />  Sherrie Weaver writes in a tongue-in-cheek style giving advice to those who practice impolite wickedness and indiscretions that make the rest of us gag.  She limits each page to one tip, using limited graphics as accents.  This keeps the distractions to the minimum dealing a quick and light read for anybody who wants a couple of chuckles over that five minute lunch break.<br />  I recommend this book for fun but also for those who know someone who lives life in the way Weaver suggests.  Sometimes humor is a good way to point out the unlikeable qualities in a person.  Weaver does this successfully and makes this book a valuable discussion book for any member of the family or any friend.  After reading this book, people easily talk about incidents that begin with &quot;Remember the time when...&quot;. Be sure to pick this one up and pass it on.  You will chuckle at all the things that you can't stand about yourself and others.	2003-07-05
US	30246703	R17N047H81E8UF	1563976528	710423653	Secret Codes and Hidden Messages	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A fun way to hone your sleuthing and word skills!	My mom knows how much I love to play.  When I was hospitalized to have my gall bladder removed, she gave me this book.  It was so fun!  I hated lying there in that cold hospital bed unable to move for 3 days (due to complications).  But I had this book to play with!  Though the secret messages readers have to decipher with various codes turn out to be either really corny or common knowledge trivia, the bright colorful illustrations and whimsical ideas presented in this collection of nearly two dozen different codes, are fun and exciting.<br />  Some familiar codes include American Sign Language, Castle Code, hieroglyphics, and Morse.  Readers will also find uncommon codes such as The Dancing Men code adapted from The Mystery of The Dancing Men featuring Sherlock Holmes.<br />  Children are going to really love this book.  It's fun, practical and a quick read.  Kids with a penchant for solving or creating their own mysteries are going to love this collection.  An answer key is included and a brief history of code making and breaking is also included.<br />  Jeffrey A. O'Hare really did a good job with this book.  I highly recommend it because of its fun, versatility and ability to inspire children to read more.  As an educator, this is very important to me.  I look forward to sharing this book with my students in the classroom during leisure reading and writing times.	2003-07-05
US	30246703	R1LJ16S8FO8UH1	0066239338	893345490	Farfallina & Marcel	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Love and friendship beautifully recreated	Holly Keller's story of growing up and changing is a fantastic story wrapped in beautiful watercolor illustrations.  She weaves the story of everlasting friendship that we all long for and cherish in a charming and simple way.  Keller's accomplishments include more than 30 books that she has written with \\"as many illustrated (that were) written by other people.\\"  It's easy to see why she has accomplished so much.  I love this book.<br />  Keller's story opens with little Farfallina, a caterpillar, munching on a leaf during a gentle spring rain.  Her munching disturbs a handsome gosling that quickly befriends the caterpillar.  Despite the fact that they make an unlikely pair, they become the warmest of friends. Their friendship is rocked by separation however when one day Farfallina must rest.  For weeks she is gone and Marcel realizes that he must grow up without her.  A happy reunion finds them still fast friends despite the growth and change each has had to face.<br />  The illustrations in this book are fantastic.  Kellers use of watercolors, is alive with bold vibrant colors that capture the attention of any reader.  Her pictures are incredibly cute and resemble the sweet friendship Marcel and Farfallina share.  Keller's illustrations encourage readers to peruse each page liesurely.  I have always loved finding hidden pictures, and although Keller does not necessarily intend this, children can look for Farfallina's cocoon in the tree tops or note the changes in Marcel's feathers.  Without the pictures, the story wouldn't be the same.<br />  I look forward to sharing this book with little ones during story time at the public library.  Allowing the children the opportunity to visualize the colorful pictures as this heartwarming story is told will truly be a pleasure.  I hope that they enjoy the story as much as I have.  I've added it to my wish list and look forward to giving a second copy to my nieces.	2003-07-03
US	30246703	R33U57D40EA9QD	0763604666	158648860	Monkey Do!	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Monkey Do!?  Kids will too!	This rhyming tale of a mishcievous little monkey on the loose from an urban zoo depicts the adventure and fun all children live for.  Because of the simple plot, the story is captivating, fun and amusing.  The illustrations make for a colorful bonus to accent the story.  Though the story is short and simple, every read promises to be entertaining!<br />  Allan Ahlberg really did a great job writing this one.  He anchored his story around the phrase Monkey See, Monkey Do.  The mischief this monkey gets in is hilarious.  Though one reviewer claims this monkey doesn't come close to comparing with Curious George, it is the loveable monkey's character and playfulness that makes this story really rock.  Monkeys are fun characters in children's books and this one is no different.  Ahlberg even plays with the rhyme to pen a few new catchy phrases for the monkey's antics.  Keeping the wording simple captivates readers and makes this an excellent selection for group sharing.<br />  Andre Amstutz also contributes brilliantly to this treasure.  His ink and watercolor illustrations are bold and exciting.  Every page is busy with vibrant color and exciting action, befitting the characteristic of the monkey.  With every turn comes a bundles of sights for children to see.  The sights in this book encourage children to talk, identify, and engage in a lively and fun story.<br />  I have not yet read this story to children at storytime, but plan to do so next week.  I'm confident they will love it.  I also look forward to purchasing two copies myself.  One will go into my own children's book collection because it is an excellent work.  The other is a gift for my nieces.  Their love for fun and animals will be inspired by the adorable antics of another loveable monkey.	2003-07-03
US	30246703	R1BSXRA534QWCS	0613123050	103321010	Z Was Zapped: A Play in Twenty-Six Acts	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Allsburg's ABC picture book is a classic masterpiece.	This is a classic amoung alphabet picture books.  I have always loved the simplicity of alphabet books.  Sharing them with children is more fun than anything.  But Allsburg takes the fun up a notch with exciting illustrations and a witty humorous twist to the traditional alphabet book.  Though his drawings are in black and white because they were done in pencil, Allsburg captures the reader and the audience in a refreshing rendition of this beginning reader collection.<br />  As a liesure artist, I find Allsburg's work very refreshing.  His illustrations are detailed and realistic.  In this particular collection, Allsburg demonstrates mastery in shading and form.  I love his illustrations.  Any child that loves to draw will be inspired by Allsburg's work.<br />  I also love the way Allsburg's illustrations bait the reader to guess what words are used to describe what is happening to each letter.  By strategically placing the words for each illustration on the back, readers are encouraged to say what they think is happening.  Dialogue is an exciting way to learn reading.  By encouraging this kind of sharing, Allsburg has created an excellent book for children learning to read.<br />  Allsburg is an inspiration to young writers and artists.  This is not his first children's book and only adds to an already growing collection of fantastic works.  Every teacher, babysitter, storyteller and parent should keep this one handy as well as a pad of paper and plenty of extra pencils.  Once you've read The Z Was Zapped you will want to put your hands to work as well.	2003-07-02
US	30246703	R3AGVBY5J1TBSM	0027474607	543460634	Willaby	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Rachel Isadora creates a loveable character.	Willaby is all girl.  She loves the same things many little girls in the first grade like, including her teacher Miss Finney.  But when her passion for drawing accidentally prevents her from expressing affection for her favorite teacher, poor Willaby is heartbroken.  Though she tries to make amends, Willaby finds that she can't escape her guilt, until Miss Finney thanks her in a very special way.<br />  I really loved this story.  I know I've heard of Rachel Isadora before and it's no wonder.  She has poured her heart into a beautiful character with a heart of gold.  Willaby is the everyday angel that all children want to be.  She is the innocence we find in every child.  And Isadora does a beautiful job of bringing her to life both in a warm plot and in amusing illustrations.<br />  I shared this book with 16 preschool children.  They enjoyed it thoroughly and even giggled at the part about drawing on the wall.  Willaby is a familiar friend to most children because she represents the feelings many of them have for a teacher.  Though I recommend this book for anyone who wants a charming simple story, I prescribe it to every child who finds fascination in drawing, even on the desk at school.	2003-07-02
US	30246703	R33GY5JQVOPHXZ	0486266907	691105951	Ethan Frome (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Despite it's dark overtones, Ethan Frome is a good read.	I really enjoyed this book.  It is my first Edith Wharton attempt.  I read it one rainy weekend this past spring as heavy storms kept us all pent up.  I highly recommend this book to every reader.  I can't say more than other reviewers have already said nor can I say it more effectively.  To the students assigned this book, I suggest that you look at how Wharton writes.  The fascination the world has with a forbidden love is a popular theme, but Edith Wharton weaves magic into the familiar plot by adding a flair for charming description, intricate detail and symbolism that chills every reader to the bone.  If you don't enjoy Wharton's novel as I and many others have, think of reading it as an experience on your to-do list.  Ethan Frome should be on everybody's to-do list.	2003-07-02
US	30246703	RNWBL8EZTHWTP	0395366283	780094265	Curious George Goes to the Aquarium	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Curious George steals the show.	I have loved Curious George ever since I was a child.  The adorable monkey and the man in the yellow hat take a trip to the aquarium in this book.  Despite the fact that the man with the yellow hat has no responsibility when it comes to looking after a mischevious little monkey, Curious George redeems himself and is forgiven for his antics when he makes makes the fin and flipper show the best aquarium visitors have ever seen.<br />  Rey and Shalleck present a fantastic story for readers of all ages.  It caters to the curiosity and adventure every child faces.  I shared this book with 16 preshoolers during storytime at a local library.  They loved it and I enjoyed reading it to them.  The plot is simple, the characters are adorable and heartwarming.  Curious George stories are always charming and enchanting.  The illustrations, though dated, are colorful and appealing.  The stories are adapted from a series of films.  Though I have never seen the films, I know the stories are timeless and wonderful.  Curious George deserves a place in every book lovers collection and belongs on every family bookshelf.	2003-07-02
US	30246703	R3GUGWWQIWHC8C	1879085887	770867	It's Raining, It's Pouring (Nursery Rhyme)	Books	3	3	4	N	N	It's Raining, It's Pouring, but this book isn't boring!	This extension of the familiar nursery rhyme takes readers through several other verses dealing with the weather as well as the Old Mans weight problem.  Kin Eagle writes an amusing account of how grandpa responds to different environmental conditions.  Hyperbole is rampant but charm is the main ingredient.<br />  Several reviewers have commented on the \\"weird rhymes\\" used in this story.  However I extend accolades for Eagle on originality.  I've always thought there should be more to it than some old man snoring in a coma from a head injury the night before.  Now thanks to Eagle I even know the old man's name!<br />  The illustrations are what really make this book a good find.  The old man pictured in this book is a very familiar looking man somewhat like the typical grandpa stereotype.  Rob Gilbert also draws in a wife.  My favorite part of the illustrations though is the use of bright cheery colors.  A special treatment has even been given to the raindrops, snowflakes and dragonfly wings that makes them sorta shimmer and stand out from the surface of the rest of the picture.  (Library bound version).  The pictures are amusing and popping.<br />  Best of all, kids liked it.  I listened to this one as my wife read it to 16 preschoolers during story time at the public library.  They liked the story.  With a large group like the one we entertained, a story that captures the children's attention and imagination is great.  The familiarity of the song helped, but the originality of the story was probably the greatest asset to the experience.	2003-07-02
US	30246703	R23HOP1KNBA81F	0785791140	586813531	Purple Pickle Juice (Critters of the Night)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Thistle Howl grows up (just a little bit).	Wow, I loved Mercer Mayer's Critter books when I was a kid!  I never ever heard of Mayer's Critter's of the Night books though!  I loved this one.  Littlest Howl Family(Mayers version of the Addams Family)member, Thistle Howl is a little girl critter that is tired of being so small.  When she wishes she could grow, her aunt, a wisened witch in the family, goes to great lengths to grant her niece's wish.  Auntie Bell is hard of hearing though, and her attempts to replace Thistle's frown with a smile are hilarious!<br />  I shared this book with 16 preschoolers at a public library during storytime.  What a fantastic read! Mayer's little critters are just like the little critters we all adore in our own families today.  Thistle is no exception.  Her craving to be big is a familiar theme that captures the attention of every child.  The illustrations are even more fantastic and fill the story with color and amusing accents.  Even without the incredible pictures, the story is a must have for every child that wishes he or she could be just a little bit bigger.	2003-07-02
US	30246703	R15Z92ADVOQA74	0786806443	933820939	McDuff Saves the Day	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Wells' adorable Westie is a day saver.	I really enjoyed reading this book to 16 preschoolers at the Festus Public Library in Festus, Missouri.  As a storytime book, McDuff Saves the Day makes for a fun and entertaining read.  The artwork and story are beautiful and creative.  The plot is charming, simple and realistic, giving McDuff (a fluffy white Westie) a perfect opportunity to be the cute dog that he is.  This is my first McDuff story and I thouroughly enjoyed it.  All dog lovers should have this in their children's book collection.<br />  In this adventure, McDuff celebrates the Fourth of July with his family: Lucy, Fred and the baby.  A perfect day for a picnic turns into a series of mishaps that leaves the family without a picnic and a cranky baby.  By the end of the story, McDuff has found a way to have a picnic and make a new friend.  Fred still complains though, because McDuff always gets to ride in the front.	2003-07-01
US	30246703	R2PPJ8SR6Q05WW	1559770503	47559108	Team Building: How to Motivate and Manage People (2 Cassettes)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Mark Sanborn is a great Team Motivator	As a teacher in a middle school, teamwork is very important to me.  I picked up this workshop on cassette because I felt there were some aspects of our team that were dysfunctional.  Sanborne presents some very specific opinions about teams and the role of individuals in any work group.  His theories aren't just concepts out of context though.  He presents some very solid habits, practices and useful advice for making a team more effective.<br />  He begins by outlining some very basic principles of what teamwork is, and breaks down misconceptions of team work.  Then he moves to specific strategies offered to make team playing more effective.  He has advice for administrators, managers, middlemen and even the &quot;lowly&quot; intern that make effective teamwork.<br />  His tape also addresses  Risk Taking, Effective Communication, Team Recruiting, Job Trading, Management Training, Empathy at work, Goal Setting, and the effectiveness of increased responsibility.  Practitioners of his benchmarks that provide good examples of his concepts include business giants such as Wal-Mart, and McDonalds as well as others.<br />  Though the trends talked about in his tape are reflective of yesterday's corporate trends, he has very good ideas that are still practical and useful today.  I am eager to pick up the tape and listen to it again in August, just before school starts this fall because it will reinforce the practical strategies I have developed from his advice.  I strongly suggest implementing Mark's ideas because they are sound and practical.  Putting them into practice will make any team more efficient, successful and dynamic.	2003-06-11
US	30246703	R1C8Z0RX5V008G	0399143483	885954525	Toxin	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Toxin On Tape is Terrific	The first time I read a Robin Cook novel I was mesmerized.  I had picked it up at a garage sale a few years back for a liesurely weekend read.  When I visited the Festus Public Library in Festus, Missouri and found two copies of Toxin on audio tape I had to pick one up.<br />  Reader, Jason Culp brings a lot of genuine style and sincere emotion to the reading of Toxin.  Jason uses subtle inflections in voice to create a plethora of realistic characters.  He also reads at a satisfying pace, allowing me to enjoy his tape as I work.<br />  The tape also includes a few extra features not available in the book.  Helpful background effects like the skating rink music, or a country and western tavern setting also bring the reading to life.  The tenuous strain of &quot;danger music&quot;  also helped regulate my heartbeat at peaks of action in the book.  I really liked these extras.<br />  Finally, even though the recording was abridged, it holds true to the story and Robin Cook's style.  His characters are realistically human, possessing qualities that might make them a bit unlikeable in real life, but endearing us to them in his stories.  The topics of his story are haunting and surreal, sometimes reflecting real life horrors, such as E-Coli and the Mad Cow disease rampant in the news still today.<br />  I recommend this version of the book for all the same reasons Cook fans love his books.  Being able to enjoy a book in the middle of rush hour traffic or other preoccupying situations is a welcome benefit.	2003-06-10
US	30246703	R17E50WSAFQVX0	0307231321	290632336	Sherlock Hemlock and the creatures from outer space	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Cleverly fun!	Sherlock Hemlock is the quintessential detective of Sesame Street. His caseload is nothing like the real Holmes though!  When Hemlock reads about aliens from another planet preparing to invade Earth he is ready to solve the case!  Hemlock had no idea a storm would give him all the clues he needed to solve this case.<br />  I shared this book with preschoolers during &quot;Tell Me A Story&quot; at the Festus Public Library.  They were excited and wanted to know when they would get to see the aliens.  The ending was nothing they expected but warm-hearted and clever.  True to Sesame Street style and values.	2003-06-04
