US	30501489	R1ADALURN3DTC8	0262612089	733918058	The Coming Generational Storm: What You Need to Know about America's Economic Future (MIT Press)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	A good look at intergenerational economics	Since the 1992 presidential run of H. Ross Perot, there has been a growing awareness in American politics and society of the financial burden Social Security amd Medicare will have on future generations.  This book is one of several to examine this issue and to propose solutions for it.   <br /> <br />In short, this book explains how the demographic changes occurring within the US will make Social Security and Medicare very expensive for future generations to pay for.  Specifically, as the ratio of workers to retirees gets smaller and smaller, each worker will have to contribute more and more of his/her income to provide for the benefits of the retiree.  This book clearly illustrates this problem, and with some simple math, explains how this problem grows bigger with time.  The book also looks at some of the possible and proposed solutions to this problem.  These include raising the eligibility age for benefits, raising social security taxes, eliminating benefits for people above a certain income level, etc...   The book examines the pros and cons of each of these suggestions, and their efficacy and political viability.   <br /> <br />The book also forecasts what might happen to the US economy if Social Security is not reformed and how the govt might finance itself.  Overall, a good book to read.	2005-10-14
US	30501489	R2QWOIPWYLH0BZ	0813340527	259849700	Inside The Mirage: America's Fragile Partnership With Saudi Arabia	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Getting to know you	The Chinese and Indian societies are two of the oldest, continuously-existing societies in the history of man.  Both share many similarities; one of which is that in either society, when one enters into a business arrangement with another person, it often involves a comingling of families such that the spouses get to know each other, the children get to know each other, and so on and so forth.  Many Americans find this to be quite difficult to handle upon first encounters.  For example, many Americans doing business in China are quickly frustrated how their Chinese business partners request positions for their family members and friends.  Though it seems cumbersome, this type of arrangement serves a very useful purpose; it helps each group get to know the other group better, thereby reducing the chances of surprises down the road.      By this example, we can now examine the US-Saudi relationship over the past ~80 years, and specifically how it is portrayed in this book.  In short, the US has had a very special relationship with Saudi Arabia, and one that is built on mutual ignorance.  Specifically, when oil was discovered in the Saudi desert, American companies were so quick to get it flowing out and to the market, that neither side had the time to learn about each others cultures, norms, values, etc...  Yes, many American geologists learned Arabic and some even became Muslim.  Yes, many Arabs went on to work in America and send their children to American schools.  But overall, this exchange of ideas was limited to a small minority, even within the expatriate community of each side.  American oil workers lived in their own neighborhoods in Saudi Arabia, and Arabs in America tend to be concentrated in a few cities; i.e. Detroit.  The relationship was essentially all business.  But like any relationship between two persons or two countries, nothing is ever all business; politics sooner or later gets involved.  In America's case, the vast majority of Americans were soignorant of Saudi-American relations, that the terrorist attacks of 9-11-2001 came as such a big surprise.    This book shows the extent of the American - Saudi relationship at various levels in business, politics, and military relations.  It shows how Saudis and Americans related and dealt with each other's cultures and persons in both American and Saudi Arabia.  These including interesting stories of how Saudi women first learned about the bra; by seeing it on the wives of American oil executives and geologists.  This book also shows the lack of understanding between the two cultures and peoples, and how this is often the unstated goal of the governments of both countries; out of sight - out of mind.    This book does not go too much into Osama Bin Laden, Wahabism, Al Queda, or the extent of terrorism in Saudi Arabia.  Instead, it is more of a primer on American - Saudi relations.  Overall, a good book to read.	2005-10-13
US	30501489	R2Q8MB46PC03YC	0813922666	461123416	Lots of Parking: Land Use in a Car Culture (Center Books)	Books	3	15	15	N	N	No such thing as a free ride	Parking, possibly one of the most boring things to talk about at any discussion, yet this one issue has revamped entire cities, affected how localities spend money, and changed the social and business climate in neighborhoods throughout the US.  This book gives a comprehensive chronology of automobile parking in the US throughout the 20th century.  The book shows how parking, and the space required for it, is often underestimated, but once allocated for, changes the surrounding environment in many ways that are often harmful.   <br /> <br />The book shows how city blocks fall prey to parking, how the presence or absence of it affects surrounding businesses, how it affects flow of both cars and pedestrians, and how an entire business has grown up around the provision of parking to communities.  The book shows the development of parking (structures, theory, laws and regulations) throughout urban, rural and suburban areas throughout the 20th century.   <br /> <br />Significant events are included, such as the invention of the parking meter in Oklahoma City, the debate over angled versus straight-on stalls, the rise of the parking garage industry, and changes in city rules and regulations over parking.  The book also provides several case studies showing how specific cities have been changed due to parking concerns.  These include Detroit, L.A., and Boston.   <br /> <br />The book is missing several things though concerning this issue.  First, the book does not cover how cars have been designed vis-a-vis parking requirements.  Second, the book does not give firm numbers as to the costs of different types of parking lots and how this depends on the surrounding architecture, ground, cityscape, and climate.  Last, the book should provide statistics comparing how the different states and cities have dealt with parking issues, and how this correlates with rates of car theft, car accidents, automobile collisions, and automobile pollution. <br /> <br />Overall, this is a goodbook to learn about a largely unknown topic.  I recommend it, though it can be quite boring to read.	2005-10-12
US	30501489	R2P5MQBJ84N5L	0385721862	417958158	World on Fire: How Exporting Free Market Democracy Breeds Ethnic Hatred and Global Instability	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Great book on globalization	In the last 10 years there have been a wealth of literature on globalization and its effects.  Many, if not most of these, have come from white men living in Western nations who have in general benefited from globalization.  Now we have a book by a Chinese woman who has personal experience of the negative effects of globalization.  With this insight, a lot of research, and references of other works in the same genre, the author has written an intelligently argued, well written, easy to read, and comprehensive account of globalization in the 20th century with an emphasis on the decade since the end of the Cold War.   <br /> <br />In this book, she looks at the globalization that has occurred in Russia, China, Latin America, Indonesia and several other areas of the world.  She also looks at Germany prior to and during the Nazi period.  From these case studies, and by looking at the history of the US itself, she shows that the combination of free market economics and representative democracy that the US has convinced other countries to adopt in the last 20 - 30 years has led to economic and social chaos in those very same countries.  And the worse part, the US has rarely adopted these same practices that it has imposed on other countries.  In fact, it has even down the opposite.  As a clear example, she illustrates how the US adopted the New Deal as a remedy for the Great Depression.  Yet, when other countries have financial difficulties, the US, through the World Bank and the IMF, encourages those countries to trim spending, balance its budget, and tighten its financial policy.  The result, these countries have their economies screwed over for years or even decades.   <br /> <br />The added insight that this book provides over others in the same genre is how the combination of popular democracy fused with free-market economics often leads to social tensions broken down along racial or religious lines.  These tensions occasionally break out into civil strife, hence worsening the economic situation.   <br /> <br />What the book does not do is blame globalization, democracy, or free market economics.  The book does blame the policy of one-size-fits-all reforms that the US has forced onto other nations. <br /> <br />All in all a great book and worthy of reading for any history, economics, or poly sci major. <br /> <br />	2005-10-08
US	30501489	RXAXDOS2E22GW	158567348X	460811626	Greek Fire, Poison Arrows & Scorpion Bombs: Biological and Chemical Warfare in the Ancient World	Books	3	1	4	N	N	Wanna be weapons of mass destruction	Since the terror attacks of 9-11, a lot of attention has gone into the science and threat of weapons of mass destruction.  Unfortunately, there has been little history to accompany it, especially within the American popular press.  This is unfortunate, as both biological and chemical weapons have been used extensively throughout human history by many nations and armies against other nations and armies.  In this context, this is a good book to read to gain historical and moral perspective on the use of such weapons.      This book provides a history of the science and use of both chemical and biological weapons within the context of Western recorded history.  The book begins with references of these types of weapons in ancient Greek, such as in the tasks of Hercules.  The use of these weapons in warfare is then covered, such as how Roman armies would poison the water supplies of their enemies, or how white settlers purposely infected Native Americans with diseases like smallpox during the colonial era.    The book does a good job of covering the science and technology of these weapons, their efficacy and reliability in use, the decision-making and moral balancing that decided their employment, and their relative importance on and off the battlefield compared with other weapons and military tactics.      The book is lacking on one front; it completely leaves out the use of addictive drugs in war.  Whether it was opium in China, alcohol in North America or cocaine in South America, the use of addictive drugs by one group of people to weaken, enslave and even destroy another group of people is common practice in the history of man.  Granted there might not be enough historical evidence to document such behavior.  But overall, it is a good book to read and worthy of any bookshelf.	2005-10-07
US	30501489	R1ZEJ2VVLNKLJQ	0471346098	452318567	Computing Concepts with Java 2 Essentials	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Good intro textbook	I used this book in my intro to programming class that I took in college.  I already had taken a programming class while in high school, so the concepts in programming were not new to me, but Java, being an object-oriented language, was new to me.  As such the class was new and introduced a lot of concepts which I was not familiar with.  This book was good; fairly easy to understand, and the sample problems were good and balanced.  I could not find any grammatical, spelling or other mistakes, so kudos to the editors.  Overall, it is appropriate for college students and older, though I would not recommend it for high school students learning programming for the first time.	2005-10-06
US	30501489	R1VK2UAA72C6U5	0451526910	900945877	Arrowsmith (Signet Classics)	Books	2	6	23	N	N	Workaholic by any other name	I read this book as part of my participation in the high school extracurricular event Academic Decathlon.  From this book, I was supposed to learn about the medical profession, the scientific research profession, the lives of scientists and doctors and how they fared in a rural, Midwestern America populated by bible-thumpers, illiterates, country hicks, and indigent farmers.  What I got was the biography of a workaholic.<br /><br />Martin Arrowsmith, the protagonist of this book, is devoted to basic medical research, and is willing to sacrifice much in life to do it.  These include money, fame, time with his loving wife, and time to himself to do things like exercise, go on a vacation, go out for a good meal, etc...  In short, Mr. Arrowsmith is a workaholic, pure and simple.  Just because his work is medical research instead of say selling cars does not excuse his undying love of work.  In reading this book I saw the reflection of many people I know; single or divorced workaholics.  Yes their jobs are important and yes they love their jobs, but they, like Arrowsmith, lack balance in their life.  Overall, I found the book quite boring, and do not believe it should have won the Pulitzer Prize.	2005-10-05
US	30501489	R18PERE6TD3IB6	1586481886	55090513	Cronies: Oil, The Bushes, And The Rise Of Texas, America's Superstate	Books	4	5	5	N	N	The real bellwether state	It has often been said that California is a bellwhether state, in that it sets trends that are followed by the rest of the US.  In terms of culture and entertainment, this is true, but in terms of politics and economics, I would give that title to Texas after reading this book.   <br /> <br />Cronies is about the history of Texas from 1900 to now, and how this history is centered around oil.  Many events that have played out on the world's stage regarding oil have had preludes in Texas.  OPEC and its economic power was preceded by the various alliances and pacts between Texan oil men.  The 1991 Gulf War in the Middle East was preceded by fights over oil wells in Texas during the beginning of the century.  And last but not least, those who master politics in Texas often acrrue the power and wealth needed for national politics.  These individuals include LBJ and both Bushes.   <br /> <br />This book provides many insights into the history of Texas, America, and the world, and how events in one of these three spheres has affected events in the other two.  The book is well referenced, and fairly balanced in its treatment of both Democrats and Republicans.  Overall, I highly recommend it.	2005-10-03
US	30501489	R2EIKL4YHX5WU3	0679736158	333607352	The Work of Nations: Preparing Ourselves for 21st Century Capitalism	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Liberalism at its best and most accessible	The author of this book is a respected economist and also a former cabinet secretary in the Clinton administration.  Published in the early 1990's, this book provides a short economic history of the US, describes the American economy at his time (the early 1990's) and what lies ahead for America.  In it, Reich covers various topics such as: industrialization, outsourcing of labor, gap between incomes, the growth of financial markets in both the number of people involved, the sums of money involved, and the influence they have on world affairs, and the role of America in world economics.   <br /> <br />He points out trends both harmful and beneficial to America, and prescribes changes that could help America, and the world.  These include the traditional liberal stands of investing in education, securing healthcare and other social nets for the poor, protecting the environment, empowering workers, especially those at the bottom of the economic food chain, with greater power in their economic success,  <br /> <br />The book is clearly written.  Reich is clearly a Democrat, but the book is not partisan in its treatment, and he emphasizes the importance of government budgets and tax rates in economic policy.  There were several items he should have placed more focus on; privatization of utilities, the growth of intellectual property and its effects on technological growth and individual rights, the spread of credit, and the parallel rise in bankruptcies.  In all the book tends to look at the bright side, and offers many good points for political leaders current and future to consider. <br />	2005-10-01
US	30501489	R2SGNQODDW0UAF	1586483064	454148024	Soft Power: The Means To Success In World Politics	Books	3	5	13	N	N	Wisely spoken half truths.	The thesis of this book is that there are many ways to get people to do what you want, and that in world politics, the US has been good at using these various methods until recently with the Bush administration.  I am not sure whether this book was written as a sideways attack on the Bush administration, but the points it does bring out are true and worth paying attention to.  Specifically, the author states how in the past, the US has used methods such as trade deals, political favors, immigration quotas, economic investments, and other non-violent and non-confrontational techniques to convince other nations to do things the American way.  The author then shows how the current Bush administration has strayed away from these methods and chosen to use more direct ones such as trade embargoes, sanctions, ultimatums, and outright military invasions to get things done.  The consequences have been disastrous; loss of friends and allies, lack of cooperation from multinational bodies, bad press, and of course, good propaganda for our enemies.      Many of these themes have been written about in editorials throughout the web and printed press since G W Bush came to office, and this book by the dean of one of Harvard's schools just adds weight to the arguments.  The problem with this book is the insufficient coverage of all the dirty laundry of previous administrations.      A thorough comparison between Bush's foreign policy, and those of every president since 1900, will show that nearly every president used force to get other countries to cooperate when alternatives were possible.  Examples include the various assasinations and coups of foreign leaders orchestrated by the US throughoug the world during the 1900s.  These include the leaders of Iran, Chile, Indonesia, and the Congo.  Saddam Hussein himself was paid by the CIA to assasinate an Iraqi government official during his younger days.  Funny how this was not mentioned.  In general, most presidents use a combination of stick and carrot to deal with foreign policy situations.  Previous presidents were better than Bush at showing the carrot and hiding the stick.    Overall a good book, but one that tends to overemphasize the failures of the Bush administration, and skims over the failures of previous ones.	2005-09-28
US	30501489	R3CN9XQ2E6Y4EP	0345298063	451774652	Peter the Great: His Life and World	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Awesome biography, perfect script for a movie	Peter the Great is probably one of the most influential leaders in world history, and is considered by many as the one who modernized Russia.  Such a grand personage requires a grand biography, and this book delivers just that.   <br /> <br />It tells the life of Peter in chronological order, starting by showing how he was born into one of several families competing for political power in Russia.  The book continues with his family's exile from political power, his education in military and political affairs, and his rise to leadership of Russia.  The book then covers his trip west to learn from other European nations, and his return home, upon which he set upon a mission to modernize Russia.  These efforts included the building of a modern navy, the construction of St. Petersburg, mandatory government service for the aristocracy, and of course, cutting of beards.   <br /> <br />The book also describes in detail the military conquests and defeats of Peter the Great, and the political scheming and posturing he led Russia thru vis-a-vis England, France, Austria, Poland, Germany, Turkey and a host of other empires.   <br /> <br />The book was quite entertaining to read, and many comical anecdotes are recalled.  The book is also easy to read as the author goes out of the way to explain Russian terminology and culture to non-Russian readers.  Overall, a great book whether for a history class or pleasure reading.  I think it also makes a great script for a movie.  I highly recommend it.	2005-09-28
US	30501489	RIKIG8YJLW9E8	1582344779	372577569	Rats: Observations on the History & Habitat of the City's Most Unwanted Inhabitants	Books	4	2	5	N	N	Man's best friend	Dogs are often considered man's best friends, but after reading this book, I would give that title to rats.  The author of this book, Robert Sullivan, describes rats, and their relationship with humans since the dawn of mankind (rats came first).  His emphasis is on the relationship between the two species within habitats created by humans; cities specifically, and New York in particular.  Throughout the book, the author describes how rats and humans coexist together, how the former live of the excesses and waste of the latter, and how rats evolved to become totally adept at living with humans, much to our disgust and revolt.   <br /> <br />The book includes many references to the part rats have played in human history; spreading plagues, stowing away on boats, destroying crops, and even providing entertainment (rat fights).  The book also describes the life cycle of rats, such as procreation, nesting, spreading thru new habitats, and child-bearing.  Last, but not least, the book highlights the extreme similarities between rats and humans.  Both overpopulate too easily and quickly overuse the land they live on, and in both species, homosexual behavior quickly develops among males kept in a confined area isolated from females. <br /> <br />All in all a very entertaining, informative, and insightful book.  Hard to put down once you start.	2005-09-27
US	30501489	RY1Z70QBEG2J8	0380720027	218105535	The End of History and the Last Man	Books	1	54	84	N	N	Foolish ideas even when it was published	Published in the early 1990s, this book puts forth the thesis that the end of the Cold War, and its victory by the US, marked a significant turning point in history.  Specifically, mankind can see the light at the end of the tunnel of history, that the liberal democracy that is America at the end of the Cold War is pretty close to a perfect society and once every society reaches this stage, mankind has reached the end of history.  No more wars, no more revolutions, no more upheavals, etc, etc.  Of course, events in the next decade up to and after the 9-11/2001 terrorist attacks proved this book all wrong.  Mankind is nowhere near the end of history; in fact we might be staring at a very long war between established governments and multinational terrorist groups.  And the dot.com bust, the Enron and related scandals, and now the economic and social wreckage due to a summer's worth of hurricanes shows that liberal democracies like the US are not even close to being optimal societies in terms of managing people - people or people - nature relationships.  I believe this book is even more foolish; that its thesis and its premise was flawed even in 1993, and that the author should have known better than to publish such bullcrap.<br /><br />First, the human population continues to grow.  Yet the amount of arable land and drinkable water is not increasing.  This can only lead to conflicts.  It led to conflicts in the past, and will only lead to more conflicts in the future.  We are seeing it happen already; every year the SW states in the USA duke it out in courts over water access.  Every year the Jews and Palestinians in Israel bicker over water access.  And of course we have at least one war per decade over oil; whether it be in the Middle East or somewhere else.  As the world's population grows, we are only going to have more wars, and since wars make great history, a lot more history to go thru.<br /><br />Second, the author's premise that America is a liberal democracy is totally false.  America is a corporate democracy.  Pull over 100 people on any American city street (D.C. excepted) and ask them who their congressmen is, or who their state representative is, or even who their mayor is, and after a slight pause, the most common answer would be \\"I DO NOT KNOW\\".  On the other hand, ask him/her how their 401K is doing, or how is their mutual fund performing, and you will get a certain answer.  This discrepancy of awareness and involvement between civic society and the corporate world can only mean one thing; America is a corporate democracy.  An even more potent sign; many of the prisons, schools, and health care facilities in the US are increasingly run in part or in whole by corporations.  Three of the most fundamental aspects of any society; criminal punishment, health care, and education, are run by corporations in the US.<br /><br />Third, democracies don't always last.  A Roman Republic over 300 years old converted to dictatorship in under a century.  The area that is now Poland was comprised of democratic states throughout the Middle Ages.  These were successively conquered by their bigger neighbors (France, Germany, Russia) and subjected to dictatorships.  The Native American tribes throughout the N. American continent were all democracies in the purest sense of the word.  From 1776 - 1910, each and every single one of them was either destroyed, displaced, or absorbed by one nation that only allowed white males to rule; the USA.<br /><br />Last, in any given time period, the democratic nations that exist are usually expanding their possessions, usually be conquering less democratic nations.  Semi-democratic, aristocratic England conquered the Middle East and India.  Democratic France conquered N. Africa.  And of course the US has defeated or taken over various countries such as Cuba, Puerto Rico, Mexico, Spain and the Philippines, all of which were less democratic than the US.  Democracy does not put an end to man's greed, it only channels it outwards towards its neighbors near and far.<br /><br />All in all, a book of false conclusions based on false premises.  It is worthy of reading if only to see the mistakes in its logic and arguments.	2005-09-26
US	30501489	RB5LW68RI2654	1559707356	886884559	The Natashas: Inside the New Global Sex Trade	Books	4	14	17	N	N	Partners in failures	The end of the Cold War saw one of the greatest opportunities in the history of the world for one society (the US) to help another (the USSR).  The breakup of the USSR and the fall of communism provided the US with an opportunity to create a democracy where none existed, to instruct a nation on the principles of freedom, tolerance, respect for human rights, and civil society.  Instead, American exported its businessmen to Russia to teach them how to steal and cheat each other.  One result of this was the breakdown of civil society, loss of economic wealth, decline in the respect for law, and the erosion of Soviet-enforced equality between men and women.  As a consequence, hundreds of thoussands, if not millions of women, were sucked into the prostitution business and many were taken or tricked to go overseas.  These victims are generically called Natashas in the parlor of the trade; hence the title of the book.   <br /> <br />The author documents the lives and traumas of many of these Natashas.  They are sometimes quite young, in the early teens, and come from all over the former USSR, including places like the Ukraine, Chechnya, Dagastan, Belarus, and Russia itself.   The book shows the pipelines that take the girls from various Russian cities to their final destinations in brothels, stripbars, prisons, and sometimes cemeteries in places such as Japan, S. Korea, Israel, Europe, Arab capitals, and N. American cities such as New York, Chicago, Miami, etc... Many, if not most of the girls are tortured, raped, beaten, starved, and often kept locked away in small rooms, attics, back alleys, old warehouses, and other places where the sun don't shine.  The net effect of this is to destroy the Russian youth; the women who are the victims, and the men who are often the initial perpetrators.  Worse, Western countries have not been particularly helpful in stopping this trade, and some in the Russian government even benefit from it.   <br /> <br />Overall, an eye-opening bookand a must-read for those interested in modern politics and culture. <br />	2005-09-24
US	30501489	R3HZ9ZKTUOPMUA	0306457318	224633826	The Inorganic Chemistry of Materials: How to Make Things out of Elements (Plenum Series in Social/Clinical)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Good book for materials scientists	This is a good book for students and practicioners of materials science and engineering.  Unlike traditional books in materials science which focus on properties and crystal structure, this book delves into synthesis out of elements, and how the chemical composition of a material in turn determines the properties and crystal structure.  The book gives good coverage to different classes of materials such as borides, oxides, carbides, nitrides, alloys, intermetallics, and glasses.  The book also gives a good overview of the different types of materials (and their physical origins) that materials are selected for.  These include piezoelectricity, pyroelectricity, thermal conductivity, heat capacity, phase transition temperatures, elastic constants, Debye temperature, etc...  The text is accessible for engineers, chemists, and physicists, and is accompanied by many helpful illustrations and diagrams.  I recommend this as good reading for materials engineers and scientists.	2005-09-21
US	30501489	R1RMWIKQ8YU7SY	0873512189	921950864	The Way to Independence: Memories of a Hidatsa Indian Family, 1840-1920 (Publications of the Minnesota Historical Society)	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Little house on the prarie	American popular culture has been good at showing the lives of white settlers on the American frontier, but almost nonexistent when it comes to showing the lives of Native Americans.  A greaat example is the TV show \\"Little House on the Prarie\\".  This book is the equivalent for Native Americans, specifically for a Hidatsa native american family living in the Midwest during the mid 1800s to early 1900s.  This book chronicles the lives of the various members of this family as they adjust to the growing presence and dominance of white settlers and the US nation.  The book gives insights into the daily lives, including the minutae of cooking, cleaning, housing, farming, child-bearing, schooling, birth and death, and of course, dealing with various agencies and representatives of the US government.  The stories are told from the family's point of view, and often cite primary sources such as personal interviews and diary entries.  Overall, this is a good book, and gives great insights into the lives of Native Americans.	2005-09-19
US	30501489	R1G2H9GH12C0OK	1593760531	445468347	Spring Forward: The Annual Madness of Daylight Saving Time	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Time mismanagement	This short and colorful book gives a condensed history of Daylight Savings Time; specifically the history behind its use, legislation, misuse, litigation, and propaganda for and against it.  The book is written approximately in chronological order, though it jumps back and forth to pick up loose ends here and there.   <br /> <br />According to the book, it was Ben Franklin who first joked about changing times in certain locales to affect the behavior, and hence economy, of certain peoples.  One hundred years later state and local legislators in both the US and western Europe starting doing exactly this, with chaos resulting.  Within the US, Daylight Savings and related time-changes went in and out of vogue through the 1900s as each war and presidential administration brought a new change in attitudes.  What did not change was the constant opposition by farmers to daylight savings, which was contrary to public opinion.   <br /> <br />Its continued support was led by New York City's financial district, who wanted to time their financial markets opening time to the closing time of London's markets.  In turn, NYC influenced other cities to go along, often against their surrounding rural areas.  Against this backdrop, the US federal government tried to stay out until it finally stepped in with a plan that systematized Daylight Savings, and gave each state the option of in or out.  Only two states chose out as of the book's publication.   <br /> <br />All in all a fast read, a comical read, but sometimes the comedy gets in the way of meaninful discussion and I lost track of what the author was trying to say.	2005-09-19
US	30501489	R1JJ9G1D8I576A	0852968183	393518665	Properties of Group III Nitrides (E M I S DATAREVIEWS SERIES)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Thorough but outdated reference book	This book provides a compilation of articles, some previously published, on the material properties of various group III nitride semiconductors such as GaN, InN and BN.  Multiple phases are covered where applicable, such as cubic, hexagonal and wurtzitic BN.  The book is broken up into chapters, each of which focuses on a specific topic of the nitrides as a whole.  These chapters include fabrication, mechanical properties, thermodynamics and phase changes, electro-optical properties, and surface properties.  The range of topics covered is very broad for the different nitrides, and the references included in each section provide a good resource for further research.  Overall, a good book though it is outdated now and I would recommend against purchasing it.	2005-09-19
US	30501489	R18TTF5ROOJ1HQ	0669270490	301256466	Iverson Maj Probs Amer Indian Hist (Major Problems in American History Series)	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Good textbook	This is one of the classic textbooks for college classes on Native American history.  The book is appropriate for either an introductory class on Native American history, or a more advanced class.  The book covers the major topics of importance to both natives and non-natives over the course of 1700s, 1800s, and 1900s, such as tribal rights, gaming, Bureau of Indian affairs, treaties, schooling of native children, and compensation to Native Americans.  The book is divided into major sections that cover the history of native - non-native relations in the US and in the land that eventually became the US.  There is minimal mention of native americans in Mexico or Canada.  Overall, a decent book, though I would get the newer edition.  The second editor of this book, Peter Iverson, teaches at my university, Arizona State University, and is one of the most often-recognized teachers at this school.	2005-09-19
US	30501489	RRB3G0615PU5F	0631205470	591672328	History of Latin America (Blackwell History of the World)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Great book	I read this book as part of a class I took on Latin American history, and was quite impressed.  This book covers the area between the Rio Grande to the southern tip of S. America from the decades just prior to Columbus to the eve of the Great Depression.  Within its pages, the book covers the major topics of latin american history and culture such as slavery, race relations, colonialism, socialist movements, land reform, peasant - landlord relations, native rights, and civil wars.  Many famous individuals are highlighted such as Simon Bolivar, Pancho Villa, Peron, General Santa Ana, various conquistadors and church leaders, and artists and writers.  The book provides insightful discussion of long-running issues such as native rights, and economic reform vis-a-vis land reform / redistribution.  All in all, a good book to read.	2005-09-15
US	30501489	R1Z1SZ6ESIE78V	0517613506	813816257	Modern Naval Combat	Books	4	20	20	N	N	Filled with facts, figures, and lots of technical terms	I got this book when I was a boy and quickly gobbled it up as any other boy who loves guns, shooting, and war movies.  Written near the end of the Cold War, it provides a good overview of the ships, technologies, tactics, and weapons in use by the two superpowers and the various other sea-faring powers such as China, France, Argentia, the UK, and Canada.   <br /> <br />This book is broken into several sections.  The first section covers the origins of naval warfar, its evolution, and the features found in modern naval combat, such as radar/sonar, satellite communication, ship-design, electronic surveillance and warfare, intel and counter-intel, advanced materials, etc...  The second section gives a comprehensive listing of various classes of ships in use at that time.  These include surface ships such as destroyers, aircraft carriers, cruisers and battleships, and submarines such as attack subs and missile subs.  The last part of the book gives a history of naval warfare, with major battles such as Trafalgar and Midway explained in detail.   <br /> <br />The book is wonderfully illustrated, with both color figures and color photos.  The book also introduces modern terms used in navies, such as the different acronyms, officer positions and ranks, and sailing terminology.  Overall, a great read, though slightly outdated now.	2005-09-15
US	30501489	R2YANF98VOB0ZN	0394702530	963554093	The Peculiar Institution: Slavery in the Ante-Bellum South	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Solid, statistically-based study on american slavery	The title of this book refers to the American institution of slavery as practiced in the American south.  This book, when first published in the 1960s, was one of the first major studies of slavery in America authored by an American and has undergone numerous reprints and has been cited by numerous other works.  This book explores the economic and demographic causes and effects of slavery in the American south, and is extremely well referenced.  Major points are supported by numerical data where possible, and the author is careful to use primary sources whenever available.  These sources include court records, records of sales and auctions of slaves, wills and deeds listing slaves, census data, insurance records (yes, slaveowners sometimes got their slaves insured), and newspaper articles.   <br /> <br />The book goes into the intricacies of life with slavery, both for slave and master.  Topics covered include slave housing, different occupations for slaves, changes in slave population in different states over time, reproductive rates, mixing of the races, average lifespans for slaves in different areas, marriage among slaves, etc...  Overall, the book tries to give a complete picture of slave society and how it interacted with and was created by white society.  The author writes impartially though the book is not dry.  I recommend this book both as an education tool, and as a historical text.  I myself was fortunate enough to read the original 1964 printing.	2005-09-15
US	30501489	RMLQHXVNTHCNI	1591149061	506090698	Finishing Business: Ten Steps to Defeat Global Terror	Books	1	1	4	N	N	Total and absolute bullshit	This is one of the dumbest books I have ever read though I suggest you read it; only to understand its arguments and the flaws inherent in them.  The title of this book is promising: how to defeat global terror, and the book makes several very valid points that are not fully discussed in the popular media.  These points include:  1. The real cost of building Iraq into a stable democracy is quite high, and has not been fully fathomed by the Bush Administration.  2. Pakistan is quite dangerous and potentially unstable, with its political scene a couple of assasinations away from chaos.  3. The most dangerous modern day terrorism to confront America are adherents to Islamic fundamentalism primarily from Middle East countries, and the primary target of this fundamentalism is Middle East governments.      That said, this book goes on to list several steps the US must take to defeat global (Islamic) terror.  None of them will stop global (Islamic) terrorism, and their listing in this book reveals a biasness to throw more money at the problem.  On the other hand, there are several things not listed in this book that do contribute to global terrorism, and should be stopped.    First, the US should stop selling weapons to other countries.  What do people do with weapons?  They kill each other!  What happens when people grow up in an enviroment of killing?  They become extremists and resort to killing as part of their daily lives!  Look at the countries listed by this book as trouble spots; spots where Islamic fundamentalism is a growing threat; Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, Iraq, etc...  Each and every single one of them was/is a major buyer of weapons from the US or other western countries such as the UK, France, Germany and Russia/USSR.      These weapons were often sold by Western countries to Muslim countries in exchange for oil.  These sales still continue as Saudi Arabia is one of the largest purchasers of American weapons.  What do the recipient countries do with their newfound weapons?  Several things actually.  First, they can point it at their neighbors and try to intimidate each other over issues like trade agreements, water access, border disputes, etc...  This is why any diplomat from the Middle East will tell you this area is like a hornet's nest; you stick your hand in there and someone is bound to sting you.  Second, they can point it at their own people.  Specifically, nearly all of the major purchasers of US weapons are non-democratic.. i.e. the ruling clique in each country uses these weapons to keep their country's population at bay.  Both effects; hostile neighbors and a dictatorial government, generate a civil society conducive to terrorism, religious fundamentalism, intolerance, and violence.  To stop Islamic jihadism dead in its tracks, this culture needs to be changed, and one way the US can help is to stop selling weapons to these countries AND prevent US corporations from selling weapons to these countries through national legislation and effective regulation.  The question then arises: what should the US give to Muslim (Arab) countries in exchange for their oil?  Several things come to mind, primarily, the US could allow goods from Arab countries into the US duty-free and tariff-free.  This will spur job and economic growth in the Arab countries, and people are generally less likely to go jihading when they are making money.      2. Change the people who represent America abroad in the embassies and various other government agencies.  The current Bush administration highlights this problem.  If you look at the various ambassadors and other officials G. W. Bush has appointed to these diplomatic offices, you quickly notice that they got these offices out of patronage and not because of their skills and knowledge of these areas.  For example, many of our ambassadors to Arab countries are ex-employees of oil corporations whose former employers contributed to Bush's election campaign.  I wonder how many of these ambassadors know Arabic, or studied Middle East history, or are familiar with the Israeli - Palestinian issue?  None probably.  What they do know and what they will do in their government posts is grease the bureacratic wheels for oil companies and their subsidaries doing business in the Middle East.  If the USA is really serious about stopping Islamic fundamentalism, then it should appoint individuals to ambassadorships and other offices who won't concern themselves with oil reserves in the Middle East, but instead concern themselves with civil rights, freedom of speech, freedom of religion, secular education, ect, ect in the Arab countries.    3. Take Arab opinions every bit as seriously as Israel's opinions.  Throughout the Cold War Israel expanded gradually by taking lands owned by Palestinians, and pushing the natives of them.  Time and again, Arab countries and many other non-Arab and non-Muslim countries in the world put forth UN resolutions to condemn Israel.  And time and again the US vetoed these resolutions.  The message these vetoes sent to private citizens in Arab countries was that their governments are powerless against the US.  The result of this is that some Arabs have gone outside their government to help the Palestinians; i.e. form terrorist groups to attack Israel and the US.  If the US is to expect Arab governments to control their citizens and stop terrorist groups, the US can help by stop siding with Israel against world opinion in its conflict with Palestinians.    4. Hold up our end of international agreements on security, extradition, weapons inspections, and disarmament.  Throughout the Cold War, the US built up a rich web of alliances and treaties with most of the countries of thw world.  These treaties and alliances fostered cooperation in tracking and controlling the flow of money and individuals between countries, and limited the spread of many classes of weapons.  Some of these treaties also placed US citizens or US businesses overseas under the jurisdiction of foreign laws.  Under the current Bush administration, the US has exited many of these treaties, thinking they are too much of an impedance on US security and US business interests.  The result is that after 9-11, when American officials wanted to question individuals in other countries; there was minimal legal groundwork through which this could be done, and many other countries were reluctant to help.  To really defeat global terror, we need global help, and to get that, America needs to get of the top of the hill and learn to cooperate with other countries as equals.    5. Support birth control and other measures to slow population growth.  Religious extremism of any kind is a byproduct of too many people with too few jobs to go around.  One way to solve this problem is to support birth control and family planning in third world countries.  The current Bush administration will not do this because of their Religious Right supporters, and the previous Clinton administration did not do this due to opposition from the Religious Right.  Public citizens in the US starting with the President need to publicly drive home the point to the Religious Right that too many people in poor countries can only lead to trouble for America and Americans.    These five steps I listed above are five things that the US is not doing, and which this book does not include as steps to defeat global terror.  But, I believe these steps will go further in defeating global terror than anything said in this book.	2005-09-12
US	30501489	R203G0GEN7LDG0	0395518482	313380751	Lincoln: A Photobiography (Houghton Mifflin social studies)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Great history book and great biography book	This medium-sized illustrated book on the life of Abraham Lincoln covers the private and public life of one of America's greatest presidents.  The book gives good balance to the different stages of Lincoln's life; including his youth, childhood education, teenage years, early days as a country lawyer, entrance into local politics, his marriage, and finally his rise to the presidency and his death.  The book does not concentrate on the Civil War, but instead gives a full picture of the man, including his personal traits such as love of storytelling, good humor, and ability to win over people given enough time.  Overall, a great book for students in middle school or early high school.	2005-09-12
US	30501489	R5BH275IBASNT	0743234367	844003656	Stagecoach: Wells Fargo and the American West	Books	3	4	8	N	N	Too many details	This book is actually composed of two parts.  The first part traces the history of Wells Fargo from its foundings by friends Wells and Fargo in the early 1800s, to its spread through the American West in places like California, Utah, and Arizona.  It shows how Wells Fargo provided mail services first, followed by carriage, and finally entry into the banking business to satisfy the needs of miners to transfer gold to money during the California Gold Rush.  Many important facts are provided as the book gives insight into frontier life, banking and commerce in the 1800's, and the often minute separation between government officials and businessmen.  Some of this history is quite interesting; for example, Wyatt Earp, Doc Holliday and others involved at the OK Corral did business with Wells Fargo.  This first part covers up through the San Francisco earthquake of 1906.   <br /> <br />The second part of the book focuses on Wells Fargo and Norwest Bank in the 20th century.  The latter bank is included because it merged with Wells Fargo recently to create one of the world's largest banks.  The bulk of the second half focuses on Norwest such as its origins in Minnesota, its history, and major changes it and the rest of the banking world underwent.  The latter includes the change from a male-dominated business to a female-dominated business.  The book ends by describing the merger of equals between Norwest and Wells Fargo, and how both adopted the policy of retain and retrain instead of laying of workers in redundant areas.  <br /> <br />The first half of the book was very interesting, even for someone like me who has little interest in the cowboys, the Old West, and related history.  I give this part 4 stars.  The second half of the book was quite boring, and emphasized the growth of financial services, mergers, legal issues, international banking, etc...  I give this part 2 stars.  So averaging out both parts gives 3 stars out of 5.	2005-09-12
US	30501489	R91QYHW998S2H	0316372617	188188158	The River : A Journey to the Source of HIV and AIDS	Books	4	75	79	N	N	How so much could go wrong	The title of this book refers to the Congo River of Africa.  This great river became famous in Western minds in the 1800s with the journeys of Dr. Livingstone.  Later, it would be the setting of The Heart of Darkness.  Doctors and scientists in the heart of darkness indeed as The River explains in its long, well-documented, exhaustive tale of secretive, unregulated medical research.  This book's author interviews hundreds of individuals involved in this process, goes over countless documents, and from it, pieces together the following story.    After WWII there was a race to find a vaccine for polio that could be administered orally.  Numerous groups of scientists from around the world took part in this race; the prize being fame, fortune, and patents galore.  In public, these teams agreed to perform all their research in Western countries, document everything, and only conduct tests on adults who had signed written consent forms.  In reality, many of these teams flocked to the Africa Congo to perform large-scale tests on unwitting and unknowing human populations, often without oversight by the press or medical institutions.  These groups would inject various African primates with polio, extract serum from the infected primates, and using this serum to make experimental vaccines which would then be given to the local human populations.      This book contends that by this process, HIV was accidentally transmitted from certain monkeys into humans.  The author provides numerous pieces of evidence in proof of this theory.  First, the very same villages in the Congo where HIV was first discovered also happened to be the very same villages in which the polio tests were performed.  Second, HIV was diagnosed in these villages 10 - 20 years after the polio tests were performed.  Third, none of the other currently existing theories can explain how a primate virus passed into the human population, and spread so quickly, over a period of 4 decades, given that the two populations of monkeys and humans had coexisted in the same habitat since the dawn of man without any such transmission.  Fourth, during public hearings in the 1950s, the various teams presented their oral vaccines to the world scientific community.  One team found an unknown immunodeficiency virus in one of the samples provided by another team.  Hmmm, an unknown immunodeficiency virus... sounds like HIV to me...  Fifth, the scientists that conducted these trials in the Congo are unwilling to release their samples and scientific data for public scrutiny, even though all the patents and honors have already been distributed...    Overall, this is a very good book.  Even if you do not believe the author's theory, I still highly recommend it for the author covers a lot of aspects of the medical field that one might not necessarily learn in school or in the newspapers.  These include making and testing vaccines, animal testing, human testing, obtaining funding for medical research, scientific protocol, relationships between the medical community and governments, medical reporting, competition in the medical community, statistical sampling, and epidimiology.	2005-09-08
US	30501489	R11XM13Y3M4515	1859845878	848901537	Bushwomen: Tales of a Cynical Species	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Women from Bushcountry	This book gives the a short biography of six different women who have helped in either the election or presidential administration of George W. Bush.  Written in 2004, these women are Karen Hughes, Condoleeza Rice, Elaine Chao, Christine Wittman, Gale Norton, and Ann Veneman.  The first helped Bush's election campaign and provides with him PR support.  The other five served in his administration at top-level positions.  All six helped W. portray an image to voters of a compassionate conservate; someone who cares as much for \\"women's\\" issues (family, reproductive rights, labor rights, the environment, public education) as the other guy.  But, this book shows chapter by chapter, that these six individuals are just as conservative as any red-meat white man, and have helped to implement policies and laws to that effect.  For example, ex-Governor Whittman has tapped to head the EPA by Bush.  While in that post she relaxed rules governing emissions by factories, and after the 9/11 attacks, overruled EPA officials who wanted to release public warnings about the health risks in and around the crash sites.  Many in the public had viewed the appointment of these women as moderating influences on the conservative drive of Bush and his male colleagues.  This book proves this idea wrong; the women were just as conservative, and their presence only helped to mollify opposition to the conservative policies of the Bush administration. <br /> <br />Overall, a good book, though it could be a little longer with more references.	2005-09-08
US	30501489	RGMHVJ2M0A451	0393051684	584671011	Media Man: Ted Turner's Improbable Empire (Enterprise)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Method to his madness	This book provides a short but insightful biography of Ted Turner, the southern businessman known for his business acquisitions, media influence, sports franchises, and Jane Fonda.  The book lays out the private and public life of Ted Turner from his birth to his recent donation of $10 billion US to the UN.  Included in it are chapters on his schooling, his relationship with his father, his marriage to Jane Fonda, his entry into the media market culminating with CNN, and his later entry into progressive politics.   <br /> <br />The book is easy to read and filled with colorful insights into his life.  Major financial and business ventures are covered in detail, with analysis of both legal and money aspects.  The book is well referenced, drawing info from interviews with Mr. Turner, his friends and family, and secondary sources such as other books and newspaper articles.  The book can be read in 1 day or less, and I recommend reading it.	2005-09-07
US	30501489	R27OVUWK1RFQ7N	0316116726	182280380	Connections	Books	3	15	21	N	N	Connecting the dots of human progress	This book is a combination of history, science, and the history of science.  It shows how random and often accidental connections between events and individuals have fostered many of the scientific and technological discoveries and advances of mankind around the world.  The advances covered include coinage, writing, anesthesia, and modern cities, and the book as a whole is laid out chronologically.  The book mirrors the PBS television show of the same name, and hosted by the same person, James Burke; though the book and the show can be enjoyed independently of each other.  Both are quite educational in nature, though the TV show is a little more interesting than the book.  The book itself is fun to read, with a lot of facts that are well laid out.  Overall, this would be a good book to learn about the history of science, and how science has affected history.  The way the book is laid out leaves the reader hanging at the end of each chapter.  Each new discovery seems to hint to the reader that another one is sure to come, encouraging you to read on.  Overall, a good book, but not a great one.	2005-09-07
US	30501489	R2Z8F2B9XMD10S	0312264909	672566972	Khomeini: Life of the Ayatollah	Books	3	3	8	N	N	Informative reading but somewhat boring	This biography of the late Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini describes the public and private life of this man from his birth to his death.  The book begins with a description of the society Khomeini was born into in Central Iran; a wealthy, landowning family where he was one of several siblings.  The book describes his childhood, his education, his entry and rise thru the clergy, and finally his rise thru politics.  The book covers the topic in chronological order, and emphasizes his public life, specifically his years in the clergy and then in national and later international politics.   <br /> <br />The book tends to describe the evolution and changes in his society and surroundings during his lifetime.  Therefore the book is more about him the public person and his role in public life.  There is minimal information on important events in his private life. for example, the book has minimal descriptions of his courtship and marriage to his wife, does not mention when his children were born, or even how many kids he had.  Likewise, for a biography of a public man whose life spanned the 20th century, there are no pictures whatsoever, and no timelines for reference.  Both of these deficiencies are a minus, and their additions could have helped this book.   <br /> <br />The latter part of the book talks about Khomeini's conflict with the West, specifically the USA.  The author should have went into this subject more clearly and more extensively.  For example, did any Western government ever attempt to assasinate him or plot his overthrow?  Instead, the author spent too much time discussing his spiritual and mystical beliefs, and how he shared them with others. <br /> <br />Overall, a good book that seems impartial and unbiased.  But the content could have been better.	2005-09-06
US	30501489	R3H6GHSJZJUXH	0674009487	953888919	The National Labs: Science in an American System, 1947-1974	Books	3	2	7	N	N	Boring	This book describes the origins and evolutions of the National Laboratories in the USA.  These include Argonne, Los Alamos, Sandia, etc...  The book begins by describing their origins during World War II as research labs for testing and designing various components for a nuclear weapon: delivery, fission, detonation, etc...  The book shows how different scientists, businessmen, academics, and politicians played their parts in creating National Labs system.  The book continues by showing how each lab grew to become specialized in specific fields, the rivalries between different labs and their directors, and how the labs interacted with other parts of the US bureacracy such as the different branches of the US military.  In all the book is well referenced and easy to read, but this reviewer found the subject matter quite boring.	2005-09-06
US	30501489	R2HCXOK2WHSPJT	1594030618	990774266	Stealing Elections: How Voter Fraud Threatens Our Democracy	Books	3	14	23	N	N	Engaging reporting but needs better organization	Voter fraud, intimidation, ballot-stuffing and other chicanery regarding elections has long been a sin Americans laid on the doors of other countries.  But this phenomena is just as common in America, as the 2000 Florida recount and this book shows.   <br /> <br />The author shows the different ways in which cheating occurs in elections by giving concrete, documented examples from various states since the end of WWII.  Specific examples covered include voting by dead people, voting by illegals or felons, rigging of voting machines, absentee ballots that went missing, and actual ballot stuffing.  The author also provides examples at the local, state, and federal level; for both legislative and executive offices..  <br /> <br />The author emphasizes several key locales where election intrigue has a long history: Florida in general and Miami in particular, Hawaii, Chicago, Texas, and California.  The author also goes out of the way to give examples of suspected cheating by both Democrats and Republicans, though leans heavily against the former.   <br /> <br />Most importantly, the book shows how various laws have helped to increase or decrease the different kinds of voter fraud.  The author concludes with a short list of reforms that could help to reduce voter fraud and other election malfeasance.   <br /> <br />Overall, the content of the book is good, and all the examples are referenced.  The problem is that the book is primarily a series of documented case stories.  The author should have tried to be more comprehensive in his coverage.  Specifically, the author could have included tables and charts showing how documented cases of vote-rigging change state-to-state or decade-to-decade.  In the chapter on election by lawsuit, the author could have shown a timeline of how the number of lawsuits challenging election results has changed over time.  In general, the author needed to provide more statistical data encompassing the nation, along with his case studies. <br /><br />Even with these drawbacks, this is a good book to read, and I recommend it.	2005-09-03
US	30501489	R2CE7DNKVJ61AU	047167186X	168106425	Banking on Baghdad: Inside Iraq's 7,000-Year History of War, Profit, and Conflict	Books	3	10	13	N	N	Needs better temporal balance	This book sells itself as a history of Iraq over the last 7000 years, and I read it hoping to get a broader understanding of what is going on with the current Gulf War.  I was sorely disappointed.  The first five thousand years of Iraq's history are summed up in under 100 pages.  The book then slows down and spends a lot of pages on the Ottoman rule of Iraq, followed by European rule.  The book ends with a short synopsis of Iraq under Saddam Hussein and western (i.e. US) involvement through several presidential administrations.  The one subject that received the most attention was understandably oil; specifically the politics and characters involved in it from 1900 - 1950.   <br /> <br />The book misses or shortshrifts many key subjects.  These include: <br /> <br />1. Religious life before Islam, and how Islam spread throughout Iraq.  This spread involved conflict, and as such deserves greater mention in this book.  <br />2. Man's effect on the environment, and how many of the conflicts in Iraq's history pre-1900 were related to control of water, farmland and trade routes. <br />3. Iraq under the rule of the Greeks around the time of Alexander the Great, and later under the rule of the Roman empire.  This is important because many of the Jews and Christians now living in Iraq came there during the rule of the Roman Empire. <br />4. Iraq's long historical relations vis-a-vis the Persians and the Turks. <br />5. The history of Arab nationalism in Iraq starting from the 1800s up till the modern day.  <br /> <br />Overall, the book could be better balanced in the subjects it covers and the time periods it covers.  But what it does cover it does well.  The book is well referenced, and easy to read.  The relationships between Iraq and outside entities (people, corporations, and countries) are well-explained.  Overall, a good book to read, but it does not live up to its title.	2005-08-31
US	30501489	RT9QYFCNI77LU	0023781408	825389858	Electronic Materials Science: For Integrated Circuits in SI and GaAs	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Good textbook	I was assigned this textbook in a class I took that was taught by James W. Mayer himself.  Though we never used the book in the class, I read it myself and was quite impressed with it.  The book is very understandable for anyone having taken freshman physics and chemistry in college.  It gives a good introduction to the science and technology of semiconductors; emphasis on silicon and gallium arsenide substrates of course.  The pages are chock full of figures and diagrams, and there is a lot of equations that are well-explained.   Overall, a good textbook to use for learning about semiconductors.	2005-08-31
US	30501489	R3ERN9S0EPGCWA	0804713316	244189592	A Radical Worker in Tsarist Russia: The Autobiography of Semen Ivanovich Kanatchikov	Books	3	7	7	N	N	Reliving history	This short book is the autobiographical story of Mr. Kanatchikov prior to and during the Russian Revolution of 1917.  The protagonist is a blue-collar worker living in the city of St. Petersburg.  His experiences at his factory job and his poverty help to fuel his frustration with the system.  He begins going to meetings of the Communist Party and other outlawed organizations.  Soon his attendance increases to participation, organization, and propaganda.  Meanwhile, he moves from job to job as each job he goes to fires him when they discover his activities.  The book climaxes with violent protests against the czar, and finally revolution.  The book gives a good sense of what it was like to be alive at that point.  The author describes his feelings, his words, and his actions as he transforms from passive worker to active protester.  The book gives a good inside view of how the Russian Revolution occurs, and should be read by those who seek to understand communism, its roots, and Russian history.	2005-08-29
US	30501489	R1V8MF8TKIFB6Y	067972544X	300513421	Barabbas	Books	5	56	57	N	N	Tracing the footsteps of death	This short novel by Scandinavian Nobel Prize winner Par Lagerkvist fills in a little hole left open by the Bible; specifically, what happens to Barabbas after the crowd chooses to crucify Jesus and spare his life.  The book begins with Barabbas being freed.  He is in a state of bewilderment, and something within him leads him to follow Christ to the cross, where he witnesses the death.  Afterwards, he tries to pick up the pieces of his life and wanders through town.  By coincidence, he encounters some of the 12 apostles at a small cafe without knowing who they are, though they know who he is.  When he discovers their identities, he is somewhat drawn to them yet repulsed by their poorly-concealed anger.  In quick succession, he witnesses the stoning of a female friend, works as a laborer on a wealthy estate, and travels to Rome.  There he sees Rome burn down around him, discovers that this was done on orders of the emperor to be blamed on the Jews.  He is captured along with some Jews (some of whom he recognizes from Golgotha) and killed.      The story is easy to read, yet delivers a very strong emotional impact.  The different individuals Barabbas encounters are shown as very human, with faults and frailties that make the reader empathizes with them.  The apostles that Barabbas meet are not Biblical heroes in any sense of the word, but grieving friends who wrench their hearts to try and not bear ill-will towards him.  The various Roman soldiers and officials are shown as all too human; some cruel, some sympathetic towards the Jews and others apathetic.      The theme of death is pervasive throughout the book, as it starts with the death of Christ and ends with the death of Barabbas.  Death seems to follow Barabbas at every step.  He somehow feels this, but does not try to run; he has nowhere and noone to run to.  Nearly all the people he meets end up dying; often at the hand of others.  As such, the book not only portrays a man, but a society that places little value on life, less than that placed on money, law, order, revenge, honor, etc...  Death is truly inescapable in the life of Barabbas, and he comes to realize near the end of the book that it is not how or when you die, but what you die for, something Christ tried to show him and everyone else at the beginning of the book.    In all, one of the best books by this Nobel Prize-winning author.  This English translation is easy to understand; the story flows smoothly, the dialogue is simple, and human emotions are conveyed but with strength and subtlety.  I highly recommend this book.	2005-08-26
US	30501489	R3NHVX16QVGB6E	0452275695	351505275	No Telephone to Heaven	Books	3	11	16	N	N	Tied to the past	This book is about a girl, Clare, who is half white and half black.  She is born in Jamaica and taken to America as a young child by her father.  Her mixed heritage manifests itself in her skin color, thereby setting her apart from her peers in America.  Not quite fulfilled by her life in Ameica, she moves back to Jamaica and encounters the poverty and hopelessness of the native blacks, along with hatred directed at her because she is lighter-skinned than the rest of them, and comes from a more privileged upbringing.  At several points, Clare witnesses the despair and hatred breaking out into violence.  One of these is when the mansion of a rich white man is burned down by poor blacks.  Overall, the book is an interesting read, and shows how neither culture, American and Jamaican, are truly open and accepting, and what happens to someone who tries to fit into both.	2005-08-25
US	30501489	R3GCVLVO9HWDRH	0156014106	517454879	Democracy Derailed: Initiative Campaigns and the Power of Money	Books	4	0	0	N	N	our new branch of government	The government as envisioned by the US Constitution consists of three parts: the executive, judicial and the legislative.  Interestingly, the founding fathers never included any mention in the Constitution of how the state and local governments should be comprised.  For most of America's history, state governments copied the national model to some degree.  This has changed since the 1970's, with the introduction of referendums and initiatives in over 20 states and numerous counties, districts, and cities.  These two changes have allowed voters to directly influence, change, and often counteract the actions of the three established branches of government.  The Constitution defines clear checks and balances between the three branches, and ways by which individuals would be chosen to serve in these branches.  But there is no such legal underpinning for the referendum and initiative.  The resulting consequences are the subject of this well-thought out and well-referenced book.   <br /> <br />The author gives a history of the referendum and initiative in America, how these two ideas entered the public consciousness, and how they have come into legal existence in various states and localities throughout the US.  The author then proceeds to describe some of the major initiatives and referendums that have passed and failed, their supporters and opposers, and their effects, both intended and unintended, both on the political process in their jurisdiction, but on other jurisdictions.  The author shows how money often becomes the prevailing factor in the formation and acceptance/rejection of a referendum or initiative.  Specific cases are studied in detail, especially those in bellwhether states such as California.   <br /> <br />The overall image portrayed is that both the initiative and referendum are often instruments of specific industries amd business lobbies, and rarely are ever reflective of issues of general concern to the electorate.  Also, both instruments have beenused succesfully to limit tax collection, but without the requisite cut in spending.  This book also shows how use of both instruments has led to increased bureacracy, paperwork, and lawsuits as more pieces are added to the governing process, without a coherent framework of checks-and-balances.   <br /> <br />Oveall, this is a very important book to read, not just for lawmakers, but citizens in general.	2005-08-24
US	30501489	R1AT0ZOEHJKCCL	0875802230	184572677	Pierced by Murugan's Lance: Ritual, Power, and Moral Redemption among Malaysian Hindus	Books	3	0	2	N	N	Disappointing text on a very interesting topic	Every year in the city of Penang, Malaysia and in several other cities there occurs a festival known as Thaipusam.  This strange festival is unknown in most of India, and was brought to Malaysia by Indian laborers who followed their English masters from India to S.E. Asia.  Thaipusam is one of the most astounding religious rituals that exist in the modern world, with human adults undergoing body piercings that would make many surgeouns cringe.   <br /> <br />This festival is the topic of the book, and Murugan's Lance refers to a weapon used by the hero Murugan in his duel with an evil god in Hindu mythology.  The author explores the practicalities of the festival itself, its timing, organization, the participants, preparation and effects it has on the participants and the village as a whole.  The author also tries to place this festival within the context of caste society, Malaysia, and race relations.  The book is accompanied by a few pictures of improvable quality.  The subject itself is quite interesting, though the text could be better written.  The author rambles a lot, and the style could be more concise and precise.  In all, this book is worth reading because it is one of the few English-language texts on a nearly-unknown but quite impressive festival. <br /> <br />	2005-08-24
US	30501489	R3F7Z7OUPLB1TM	0852969619	271768268	Properties of Amorphous Carbon (EMIS Datareviews)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Good collection of articles on this subject	This book is a collection of contributions from various authors on the properties, synthesis, uses, and modeling of amorphous carbon.  Most of the contributions have been previously published in journals or other medium, and so have been peer-reviewed.  The various sections in the book provide a wealth of data on amorphous carbon and is a good reference for obtaining numbers for various mechanical, electrical, solid-state, surface, and optical properties of amorphous carbon.  Unlike other books on the topic, this one also includes a chapter on modeling of amorphous carbon, including Molcular Dynamics, and Density Functional Theory studies.  All in all, this is a good intro book on this subject.	2005-08-23
US	30501489	R1TCZKG0BKPM3T	3540620192	756006115	Wood - The Internal Optimization of Trees (Springer Series in Wood Science)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Good book on an important subject	Wood is one of the most important building materials known to man, and probably one of the few accessible to all humans regardless of geography or demographics.  Whether it is an old man using a cane, a child climbing a tree, or people building houses, we all use wood for structural purposes.  Because of this, the study of wood and how to use it in buildings, vehicles, and other structures is quite advanced.  But why is wood so useful?  The answer to this is that trees use it for the same purpose; structural support.  This is the topic of this short and highly readable book.   <br />The authors delves into the different shapes and sizes of trees, the distribution of branches on a tree, and of leaves on a branch.  The book also describes how and why different trees have wood with different properties, how the wood in a tree changes with position in the tree and the tree's age.  Finally the book examines how the wood in trees deflect, deform and grow to adjust to environmental stresses such as rainfall, snowfall, wind, cracks, lightning strikes, and shade.  The text is quite easy to read for anyone who has taken college level physics or mechanics.  There are a lot of figures and diagrams that illustrate the stresses trees have to withstand such as torque, load balance, wind resistance, swelling and contraction due to water absorption and loss, temperature gradients, etc... <br />Overall, this book is highly insightful, very readable, and quite interesting.  I highly recommend it.	2005-08-23
US	30501489	R1WCLJ398LROG5	1400060346	680135019	Chatter: Dispatches from the Secret World of Global Eavesdropping	Books	3	9	11	N	N	Big brother just got bigger ears	This book is a personalized account of the author's research into government sponsored eavesdropping over the last 50 years, with an emphasis on the Echelon project run by the USA, UK, and several other allies such as Canada, Australia, etc...  The sources for this book includes other books on the subject, and primary sources such as government documents, interviews with current and ex-government officials, leaks to the press, etc...   <br /> <br />As described by the author, the Echelon project is a top-secret intelligence program composed of satellites, fiber optic cables, eavesdropping equipment, numerous supercomputers and data mining software.  The supposed purpose of Echelon is to continuously scan the airwaves, phone lines, and cable lines to look for threats to the security of the nations involved, whether they be real or perceived.  That means every time you talk on a cell phone or email someone, some computer in a government lab somewhere is keeping track of your conversation.   <br /> <br />The author goes into the history of Echelon, describing those who created it, both individuals and organizations, and shows how different nations take part in it.  The book also provides examples of how this system is sometimes abused, such as the government of one country obtaining information thru Echelon, and passing it to corporations based in that country to help them secure deals, contracts, and bids when competing against the corporations of other countries.   <br /> <br />The focus of the book is one the politics, ethics, and history behind Echelon.  There is very little on the science and technology.  There is also minimal discussion on the laws and legal framework governing such organizations, though this might be due to the lack of laws and a legal framework.  In all, this is a good book to read, especially if you are a fan of X-files, James Bond, and other government conspiracy kind of stuff.	2005-08-23
US	30501489	R24S8MC9LON9Q4	0743452933	771668256	The Demon Lover: The Roots of Terrorism	Books	2	9	14	N	N	Has good points but a bad writing style	This book argues several points regarding world history.  First, the victims, sacrifices and heroes of wars have always been defined in terms of males; the victorious general, the dead soldier, the grunt in the trenches, etc.., despite the fact the primary victims of wars are civilians - women and children.  Second, the factors that demographic, economic and political causes that lead to wars can often be attributed to a male-dominated society.  Third, women by nature would probably make better rulers and do a better job of avoiding war, but the political landscape in many countries is biased against women in leadership positions.  <br /> <br />The author presents a lot of factual and historical data to support her viewpoints.  This includes interviews with war victims and criminals, citations of government documents, treaties, war plans, references to religious and historical works, and opinions by others who have explored the role of sex and gender in politics and war.   <br /> <br />The problem with the book and why I would not recommend it is the style the author uses.  Her arguments come at the reader like bullets from a machine gun, quickfire and haphazard.  Facts and examples are cited in quick succession without text to place them in context.   The text is divided into chapters, but the number of arguments and sources of arguments are so numerous and varied that each chapter should be broken into subsections.  Overall, the points in this book are insightful and I agree with most of them.  But the writing style is horrible.	2005-08-18
US	30501489	RSB56E0QE7N06	0312422261	934802705	Cocaine: An Unauthorized Biography	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Outstanding book	This book traces the knowledge and uses of the coca plant from its origins in the Incan empire pre-Colombian times to the year 2000.  The book is laid out chronological and covers the spread of coca from the Peruvian highlands out through the whole of South America, into the Caribbean islands, to the doctors' offices and high society of Europe and finally onto the streets of Mexico and the USA.  Along the way, the author details the major personas (i.e. Sigmund Freud, George Jung, Pablo Escobar), companies (Coca Cola, Merck, etc...), and governments (i.e. Germany, Bahamas, Bolivia) involved in the on-and-off spread of coca and its derivatives throughout the world.   <br /> <br />The style is written in first-person; the author spends several years researching this topic, and relates not only his discoveries, but his efforts and mishaps in doing the research.  This includes dead-ends, transcripts from other books, and quotes from his interviews with various figures in law-enforcement, academia, drug cartels, and prisons.  The writing style is a blend of travel - writing and mass - consumption history along the lines of a David McCullough piece.  Altogether, this book makes for entertaining and educational reading. <br /> <br />The book itself has no endnotes or footnotes.  Instead, at the end of the book, the author cites important studies of coca throughout history; these include medical studies of its effects on humans, economic studies of its impact in the agricultural sectors of various nations, scientific studies of its uses, and demographic studies of its usage and prevalence within societies.  <br /> <br />After reading this book, one gains a lot of insight into the history, economics, demographics and sociology in the countries of the Western hemisphere over the last 200 years; such has been the influence of coca in this world.  This book is neither an argument for or against the legalization of cocaine; the author comprehensively shows the positive and negative effects of both the use of coca and its role in local and national economies, both legal and underground.   <br /> <br />Overall, I highly recommend this book.	2005-08-18
US	30501489	R8IO0WHGMAT9C	0393037622	221540312	Blood and Guts: A Short History of Medicine	Books	3	6	8	N	N	Interesting, but badly paced and somewhat boring.	This book provides a short history of medicine within Western civilization over the past two millenia.  The text is arranged semi-chronologically, with each chapter focusing on a different topic within medicine.  Topics that are covered include the hospital, medical equipment, drugs, surgery, health care organizations and delivery, and of course, plagues.  The style of the text alternates between text-book, comedic commentary, and newspaper editorial, all of which was dry to read, suitable for someone who likes english sitcoms.  The author used very few tables or charts, so there is a paucity of numerical data.  Likewise, dates and places are not always mentioned upfront, and the chapters lack abstracts or concluding summaries.  In short, this book is meant to be read cover to cover on the beach or by the pool, but is not appropriate for someone really wanting to learn about this topic.  The facts presented are interesting, making this book worth reading, but better texts can be found.	2005-08-17
US	30501489	R6SA28M7RQ45D	0070396051	328268402	Principles of Growth and Processing of Semiconductors	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Read it but don't buy it	This book is a good book for learning about semiconductors and semiconductor processing.  It is intended for upper-division college students in materials science, electrical and chemical engineering.  The book is fairly easy to read, the math is not too complicated, and the text is accompanied by a lot of figures, tables, references, and charts.  Topics covered include crystal structures and defects, different methods for growing semiconductor crystals, analysis of semiconductors, diffusion and ion implantation.  There are homework problems at the end of each chapter, along with example problems worked out within the text itself.  There are many mistakes and typos in these examples, so I would not buy this version, but wait for a newer one.	2005-08-17
US	30501489	R37AUIM5LGE5M2	0060006412	90454348	A Thousand Pieces of Gold: Growing Up Through China's Proverbs	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Reflections of the distant and not too distant past	This book is composed of two interwoven tales: an autobiography of the author's life from the 1950s to the 1990s, and the history of China's formative years.  These two tales are joined together at crucial points to illustrate how the lessons of life, love, war, and diplomacy practiced 3000 years ago by fuedal warlords are still applicable today, in this case in the life of the author.   <br /> <br />The author has had a challenging life as she had to put up with an unloving stepmother as a child and scheming siblings as an adult.  She bore this anguish and torture quietly for most of her life until she finally quit her medical career and put her pain to words.  The result was several books, with this as the latest.  This illustrates various parts of her life and her relationships with various people, including family, friends, and people she met in her career.  This latest offering shows how her relationships had parallels in the relationships between the various warlords and politicians involved in China's synthesis from 6+ various kingdoms about 3000 years ago.   <br /> <br />The text itself is broken into chapters, each of which is named after a famous Chinese proverb.  Each chapter is then dedicated to the historical origins of that proverb, and how that proverb has applied to the author's life and to life in general.   <br /> <br />Overall, the book is good reading.  It provides insight into the foundations of Chinese culture, how Chinese think, and the mindset of the Chinese people.  To a lesser degree it also serves to illustrate the differences between Chinese and Western cultures.	2005-08-16
US	30501489	R23VQTOXM0NG7I	0881411183	641865634	On the Edge of the World	Books	3	5	7	N	N	Russia's version of our Jack London	When people hear the term Siberia, they usually think of a wasteland destination for Russia's criminals, scapegoats, and political prisoners.  What is forgotten is that this huge expanse of land is rich in life both animal and human, that the latter has existed her for millenia and have created their own cultures, languagues, and lifestyles.  This fiction book tells the story of some of these natives, as described by a Russian author with personal experience of this region.  The book does a good job in describing how people everyday interact with nature and with each other.  One of the best scenes in the book describes the experience of living through a snowstorm.  For those familiar with American literature, this book closely resembles the writings of Jack London, naturalism with an emphasis on human - nature coexistence.  I recommend this book as a good way to learn about a part of the world most of us will never see.	2005-08-16
US	30501489	RZ0XVZJQF2QA1	0471478601	312887439	Introduction to Ceramics, 2nd Edition	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Better than stock	This is one of classic textbooks in materials science courses throughout the US.  Used and taught in ceramics classes at both the undergrad and grad level, it covers all the major topics in the field: thermodynamics, crystal structures and defects, different properties of ceramics such as superconduction, piezoelectricity, ferromagnetism, etc...  Each chapter includes a few homework problems that can be worked out by hand.   <br /> <br />The book is also better than stock; its sale price is always going up.	2005-08-10
US	30501489	R2CA9PXCDOAUOA	0786886404	797105738	The Frozen Water Trade: A True Story	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Recommended for businessmen	The title of this book refers to the international trade set up by Bostonian Frederick Tudor during the 1800s.  Mr. Tudor came up with the idea that winter ice harvested from the various waterways in his home state could be transported to hotter climates (Cuba, India, etc..) and sold for a profit.  He spent the better part of his life turning his idea into reality such that by the time he died he was wealthy, and the frozen water trade was an international business involving thousands of workers and dozens of companies.  This book tells the story of the man and his idea and covers: <br /> <br />1. The scientific and technical challenges Mr. Tudo encountered in his endeavor, such as keeping ice refrigerated for long durations, transporting ice over long distances, and separating good clean ice from dirty ice. <br /> <br />2. The business challenges of starting up and running the trade.  This included incredulous doubters, copycats, fair-weather collegeaus, moneylenders who could not fathom the various difficulties he encountered, and potential customers who having never seen ice in the summertime, had to be convinced his ice was natural and safe. <br /> <br />All in all, the book tells of patience, hardwork, perseverence, resourcefullness, foresight, and ingenuity.  Mr. Tudor built his business froms scratch, with no models to follow or others to obtain counsel from.  Unfortunately, various inventions in ice-making and refrigeration (some of which Tudor contributed to) in the end doomed the frozen water trade.  His tale as told in this book would be a good text for entrepeneurs to read and learn from.  I highly recommend this book.	2005-08-10
US	30501489	R18H44VW7ERB1V	0060011416	326426426	Lab 257: The Disturbing Story of the Government's Secret Plum Island Germ Laboratory	Books	4	56	61	N	N	What your taxes help to pay for.	I found this to be one of the most engaging and astounding books I have ever read.  The author tells the story of Plum Island, an island of the coast of Long Island on which was located a US government laboratory that ran secret experiments of various viruses, bacteria, and other microbial agents.  Superficially owned by the USDA, its stated purpose was to help US agriculture by studying the different diseases that could afflict livestock, and come up with vaccines or cures for them.  The real purpose of the lab was to study those diseases to see if and how they could be weaponized for use against the livestock of other countries in a war, specifically the Soviet Union.      The experiments that went on at Plum Island began during the 1940s and continued through the 1990's.  During this time, Lyme disease, West Nile Virus, Ebola, and other diseases were imported here from various geographies and countries to be studied.  The author speculates that many of these diseases accidentally got out and of the island, and spread to the local wildlife and then to the human population.  The causes of these mishaps range from human error, technical failures of various kinds, and the occasional hurricane.     The author does a good job of covering the science that went on at this lab, along with the politics and secrecy involved, such as Congressional oversight, lawsuits from various NGO's, and conflicts with the local media and governments.  This is a great book to read, and I highly recommend it to anyone who wants to know more about where your tax money goes to.	2005-08-10
US	30501489	R3HIU8N29G332G	156584808X	209803217	Power Play: The Fight to Control the Worlds Electricity	Books	5	6	6	N	N	We are the latest generation of suckers	It has been said that each new generation forgets the mistakes of those that came before it.  This book proves this point with respect to the privatization of utilities.  The auhor delves into the history of electric and power privatization in industrial countries since 1900, with an emphasis on the US and UK, the two countries with the longest history of mass electricity usage. In this book, the author shows:  1. How the control of power generation, transmission, and usage has shifted back and forth between the public and private (corporate) sphere over the last century.  2. The times of public control saw minimal blackouts or rationing, low and steady rates, high investment in environmentally friendly technology, and high investment in research for more efficient technology.  3. The times of private control saw numerous blackouts and rationing, high and increasing rates, minimal investment in environmentally friendly technology, and low investment in research for more efficient technology.  4. The drive for privatization is always from big corporations who are either large-scale consumers of electricity, or large-scale producers of electricity.  5. The drive for public control always results from the poor service provided by privately-owned utilities.  6. Any time public and privately held utilities operated in the same geographical marketplace, the public utilities ALWAYS offer lower rates and more dependable service.  7. The switch from privately owned utilities to public control is always due to overwhelming public pressure at the grassroots level.  8. The switch to deregulate public utilities is due to propaganda put out by corporations and their sponsored think tanks.   9. The electricity industry by its nature and evolution in America is a prototypical natural monopoly and trying to privatize different segments of it leads to chaos.  10. Over the last decade, both the Bush and Clinton administrations contrived with Enron to force other countries to deregulate their utilities so Enron could buy them up and make profits on them.    Overall, this is a great book.  It shows how big corporations, primarily Western ones, have collaborated over the last century to take control of the electric utilities around the world, solely to increase their profits.  I highly recommend reading it.	2005-08-09
US	30501489	R3C6JXY6GOFUV2	0312289014	785908084	The Illustrated Story of Copyright	Books	3	1	1	N	N	A good introductory primer	This book gives a short history of copyright, the reasonings behind it, its manifestation, implementation, and enforcement throughout the last 500 years with emphasis on the English-speaking world; i.e. England and now the US.  It is written in a style accessible to those without legal training, and serves as a good introduction to this aspect of intellectual property.  The book provides many useful pieces of information such as: <br />1. The differences between patents, copyrights, and trademarks. <br />2. How someone can copyright something. <br />3. How the extent of enforcibility of copyright laws change from nation to nation. <br />4. A brief history of the laws and court cases that have impacted and defined the evolution of copyright laws within the US.   <br />5. How different industries and industry groups have dealt with and tried to change copyright laws. <br /> <br />In all, this book is a good read.  The text is somewhat dry, though not difficult to understand.  The style is somewhere between a textbook, an editorial, a history book, and an opinion piece.  The book also provides a lot of handy references.	2005-08-09
US	30501489	R1YA9ZITEW9ZWM	0807046728	99740467	The Buried Soul: How Humans Invented Death	Books	3	12	13	N	N	Insightful but slow reading	This book deals with the concept of death in the human experience, specifically how the living think of death, try to control it, demystify it, and use it as a tool to control the behavior of individuals and societies.  Medicine and the prevention of death is ignored; instead the book focuses on cultural and philosophical issues from prehistory days to modern times.   <br /> <br />Topics covered in the book include cannibalism, burial practices, worshipping the dead, exorcism and getting rid of dead spirits, sacrificial killings, beliefs in the afterlife, and vampires.  The author attempts to explore these topics for a variety of cultures and geographies, and does a good job of including examples from Islam, the West, Native Americans, Australian aborigines, and some other groups, but the book is in no way comprehensive.  Several notable examples of man's obsession with death are excluded, such as Mexico's Day of the Dead, Halloween, and the raising of Lazarus by Jesus.  Instead, the book tries to cover the topics we do not necessarily think about or are even aware of.  These include the prevalence of ritualistic cannibalism throughout the world, the long history of sacrificial killings, and the one topic still alive today, the treatment of widows in certain non-Western cultures.   <br /> <br />The book itself is written in first person.  The author is a trained anthropologist working in this field.  Each topic begins with his narration of a field dig; from there he goes on to give a lecture on what his finds tell us about culture and history; specifically death.  For example, the chapter on cannibalism begins with his description of buried skeletons that show clear cut marks where stone tools were used to separate flesh from bone.  This style of writing is engaging, though there were many times when too many words were spent relating the field dig, thereby distracting the reader.   <br /> <br />Overall, an interesting book though the reading can be quite slow at times.	2005-08-09
US	30501489	R3BVG5SO1GBZVN	0452284597	312077227	Measuring America: How the United States Was Shaped By the Greatest Land Sale in History	Books	4	8	8	N	N	The shaping of America	This book tells an important chapter of America's early history; specifically how the land west of the original 13 colonies was measured, carved up, and sold off.  Involved in this process was the contest between those who favored a decimal system for America's weights and measures and those who favored the non-decimal English system.  The former was pushed by Thomas Jefferson as more systematic, efficient, and highly organized.  Unfortunately, the French Revolution and its ensuing systemic, efficient and highly organized executions helped to kill this and many other French-inspired ideas.  Instead, the traditional method of feet and inches took hold.   <br /> <br />The book describes the mapping of the other states besides the original 13 and how this process showed a precision and efficiency that was unique to America.  A look at the US map shows that the original 13 states have highly irregular borders.  But as one looks west, state borders become straighter, cleaner, and smoother.  Essentially, the original 13 states had their border decided after people moved in and created towns, farms, and villages.  This process was reversed to various degrees in the other states, where borders were layed out first to maximize the ease by which the land could be subdivided for sale.  Such a process helped America spread westward with ease, speed, and minimal legal hassles and conflicts between neighbors.   <br /> <br />The book covers all the major figures involved in this process, from Presidents and other government officials making the decisions, to the cartographers in the wild who drew out the lines in the forests, praries, and fields.  All told, this is a good book to read with a text easy enough for most high school students.  It should be required reading in high school history classes.	2005-08-08
US	30501489	RIJMYU356MK8V	0306812681	537260526	Envy Of The Gods: Alexander The Great's Ill-fated Journey Across Asia	Books	4	3	7	N	N	Better than a movie	Each of the great societies have contributed at least one famous name to the world lexicon: Egypt had King Tut, France had Napoleon, Rome had Caesar, and Greece has Alexander.  Like others, their tales are usually grander than the truth, and the person behind the legend is often not someone to look up to.  This book proves this by looking at the life of Alexander the Great, as an adult already crowned the leader of the Greeks.   <br />The book begins with his victory over the Persians, and covers his trek east into the Himalayas and India, and then back to Babylon where he died before turning 40.  Along the way he conquers numerous tribes and forms alliances with many more.  His entourage level many cities, but also founded many new ones, including what are now the modern day cities of Kandahar and Jalalabad.   He marries a daughter of an Aghtan warlord named Roxanne, thereby introducing this name into western culture, and his name enters into the local vocabularies in various forms: Alessandra, Iskander, etc...   <br /> <br />The book shows how during this trip, Alexander changes from a leader among equals to a self-proclaimed deity.  He acquires all the trappings of wealth and power, indulges a growing sexual appetite for both men and women, and turns on and betrays many of his original Greek and Macedonian followers.  And he does all of this in his dream of uniting the known world into one kingdowm, presumably with him as its leader.  Eventually climate and defeat stop him in India and he heads back.  He dies upon returning to Alexandria.   <br /> <br />This book was great reading.  It flows like an adventure tale, yet it does a good job of explaining how Alexander's actions reverbarate throughout history.  Even today, Persians can recall the misdeeds wrought upon them by Alexander and his armies.  The book also provides a good lesson in geography, military and political strategy, and a perfect example of hubris, the attribute Greeks warned their heroes about.  Irecommend reading this book.	2005-08-05
US	30501489	R1V6JL5L7CLIGL	0521810086	40129827	Cohesion: A Scientific History of Intermolecular Forces	Books	3	4	4	N	N	A tale of why we stick together	This book provides the history of scientific thought into why things stick together.  The book begins with a review of ancient Greek science, and the concept of atoms - objects too small to be divided.  The text then picks up in the Enlightenment when scientists like Newton are pondering the question of how the physical world came about, and using experiments to guide their ideas.  The major scientific discoveries and discoverers in the field of cohesion are detailed, including both theorists and experimentalists.  These cover the fields of quantum mechanics, electrostatics, chemistry, and surface science.  Basic principles are laid out such that any college student in science or engineering can understand the text.  Overall, an insightful book, though not the most entertaining book to read.	2005-08-05
US	30501489	R3S3JZTCQKWPL8	0393038572	185021976	The Lives of the Great Composers	Books	3	10	13	N	N	Entertaining reading	There is a common perception of rock&roll stars as individuals who let their music take over their lives, who are addicted to power, fame, sex and drugs, who live life to the extreme while young, and often die early.  After reading this book, I came to realize that this is generally true of great composers for all types of music, even the classical composers like Strauss, Beethoven, Tchaikovsky, Rubenstein and others.  This book provides a listing of all the famous composers in classical music, in the Classical, Romantic, Modernist, classical jazz, and Baroque genres.  Each listing is accompanied by a personal and professional biography, and a short listing of that composer's works.  Reading this, one learns how different works were inspired, how many classical musicians were trend setters, scandal - makers, and rebels of their day.  The most interesting fact I discovered is how many of these great musicians led lifestyles that might land them in jail today. <br /> <br />All in all, a great book, and worth reading while listening to the local classical station.	2005-08-05
US	30501489	R330LGHNQ290M3	1893956474	467158532	Frontier Justice: Weapons of Mass Destruction and the Bushwhacking of America	Books	3	4	6	N	Y	Great content but bad on style	This book is a first-hand account of US - Iraq relations from the end of the first Gulf War in 1991 to the beginning of the second Gulf War in 2003.  The book is told from the point of view of Scott Ritter, a US military officer who served as a weapons inspector for the UN to look for weapons of mass destruction in Iraq.  He served in this role until his resignation during Clinton's 2nd term as president.   <br /> <br />In this book, the author shows how the weapons inspections did not achieve what they were supposed to, how and why they failed, and who was responsible.  He lays blame all around, on both European, American, and the Iraqi governments, along with the UN.  Several key points that the author highlight are: <br /> <br />1. The weapons inspectors did not work impartially under UN supervision, even though in name they were a UN weapons inspection team.  Each inspector had a home country, and often times different inspectors would do what their home government told them, instead of what their UN supervisors directed.  This sometimes led to conflicts between different inspectors on the ground, and conflicts between different governments within diplomatic channels. <br /> <br />2. Contrary to American press reports, Saddam did allow weapons inspectors into most of the suspected weapons sites.  The problem was that the US government wanted to inspect suspected hiding places of Saddam and other Iraqi government officials.  These latter sites had little miitary value and played minimal roles in Iraq's WMD program.  Saddam tried to keep these places hidden knowing that they were crucial hiding places for his safety, and their exposure might lead to his capture and death. The US, European and Iraqi governments knew this, but the public at large did not.  Therefore, when Saddam refused inspectors from entering these sites, the public at large saw an image of Saddam as hiding weapons, when in fact he was only hiding his safehouses.   <br /> <br />3. The Clinton andBush II administrations continuously put out a stream of lies about what Saddam was and was not doing.  Clinton did it to keep the Republican Right at bay, and Bush did it for less nuanced reasons; he hated Saddam, his followers wanted Iraqi oil, etc...   The problem was that the American press went along with both presidents until really after the invasion of 2003, and this book's publication. <br /> <br />All in all, the book covers a lot of history in quite a short text.  The problem is the style.  The author is clearly anti-Bush, and his sentences are often filled with as much opinion as fact.  This takes away from the effectiveness of the book's arguments.  In all, I still recommend reading it considering its content and short length.	2005-08-02
US	30501489	R33I0PXWRW81AL	0865477132	786428397	Against the Grain: How Agriculture Has Hijacked Civilization	Books	3	11	14	N	N	Insightful, nuanced, but arguments need more proof	This book looks at how agriculture has affected the history of civilization and argues several conclusions.  First, agriculture is not the optimal way for humans to draw sustanence from the earth.  Instead, a lifestyle of hunting fishing, and gathering is.  Second, the advent and spread of agriculture brings with it the concepts of social organization and hierarchy, private property, division of labor, slavery, and diseases spread to man from animals.  Third, agriculture in the industrial world has reached the point that farms produce more food than people can eat, and farm products are now tools of trade and barter.  Last, in industrial countries, agriculture and associated industries have colluded to create national policies that encourage more and more agricultural output and consumption, even though nobody starves in said countries.    <br /> <br />Being a book about the history of the world and how it has changed, the author examines several key issues relating to the subject.  These include: <br />1. The transition from a purely hunter-gatherer society to a society where hunting/gathering was practiced along with agriculture. <br />2. The transition to a purely agricultural society <br /> <br />The author argues that each of these steps was probably helpful in the short run in terms of better diet and higher sustainable populations, but in the long run they were less efficient than what came before it.  Specifically, they led to overpopulation and then famine as soils were depleted.  This in turn forced communities to migrate and come into contact with other communities, thereby leading to war.  Long term effects include the growth of government to regulate and manage agriculture, armies to guard farm land, and the division of society into different groups according to how each could best contribute to the agricultural process. <br /> <br />The arguments and conclusions provided in this book are very insightful and would be new to most lay readers.  However, there are several drawbacks to this book.  First, it is short of empirical evidence.  Many of the arguments are made using idealized models.  Second, the book argues mainly from the history of the West, the Middle East and Africa.  There is little mention of how agriculture has evolved over time and space in Australasia, Oceania, and pre-Columbus Americas.  These are crucial omissions as the geography and climate in these lands vary greatly from that found in Europe, the Middle East, and sub-saharan Africa.  Third, the arguments made in this book tend to minimize the affects due to different geographies, climates, and the occurrence of natural disasters such as earthquakes, volcanoes, etc...   <br /> <br />Overall, this book is very insightful and worth reading.  The subject matter of this book is growing in importance in recent decades, and agricultural policy is becoming highlighted as a factor in international relations, especially between Western and non-Western countries.  The book's arguments should be read carefully though, and there are doubtless better referenced texts on this subject.	2005-08-02
US	30501489	RWFTTS3EAGQEN	1591020654	841523584	The Vatican Exposed: Money, Murder, and the Mafia	Books	5	103	119	N	N	Great history book	Growing up in America, one of my favorite topics in school was history, be it American, Western, or world history.  Never in all those classes did I come across anything like the tales told in this book.  The author is a historian of Christianity, and in this book he gives an inside history of the Vatican, with an emphasis on the 20th century.  Specifically, he tells the facts that the Vatican would not like people to know.  The major events covered in this book are: <br /> <br />1. The Vatican's treaty with Mussolini and the Fascist Party in Italy whereby the Vatican would get its own land and country from Italy.  In exchange, the Vatican would support the Fascists publicly and privately.  This occurred in 1929, I think. <br /> <br />2. The Vatican's agreement with Hitler in the 1930s whereby the Vatican would pressure Catholics in Germany to not oppose Hitler.  In return, the Nazis gave money to the Vatican in the form of a church tax levied on German Catholics. <br /> <br />3. The Vatican covering up for some of its officials who took part in the Holocaust. <br /> <br />4. The Vatican helping Nazi scientists escape to the US at the end of WWII.  In return, the Allies kept secret knowledge about the Vatican's complicy in the Holocaust and private arrangements with the Axis powers. <br /> <br />5. The Vatican aligning itself with the Mafia after WWII to help secure inroads into foreign governments, and get good deals on investments world-wide.   <br /> <br />All in all, this was a very impressive book.  It is quite short, and probably as easy to read as a Harry Potter book, though shorter than a Potter book.  The book is written in chronological order, and there are a lot of references to various primary and secondary sources. <br /> <br />I highly recommend this book.	2005-07-26
US	30501489	R3TCS9LO783LVJ	1569460051	779468519	MOTOROLA (CB)- A JOURNEY THROUGH TIME & TECHNOLOGY	Books	1	0	0	N	N	Boring	This book gives a condensed history of the origins and rise of the Motorola Corporation, from its founding fathers to the 1990s.  This book: <br /> <br />1. Describes the various people involved in the beginning and growth of Motorola, both scientists and businessmen.   <br />2. Explains the scientific discoveries and engineering breakthroughs that affected Motorola, including those by its own employees, and by others <br />3. Shows how specific events like wars affected Motorola and its business. <br /> <br />The book is written in chronological order, beginning with the the beginnings of the company around 1900 to the modern-day; 1990s.  Overall, the book is fact-filled but extremely boring to read.  This is one of the most boring corporate histories I have ever read, and I would not suggest taking the time to read this.	2005-07-26
US	30501489	RERDO9EELRC2O	0802138527	978333679	Stilwell and the American Experience in China, 1911-45	Books	5	5	6	N	N	The source of our troubles with China	From the end of WWII to the present, America and China have each regarded the other with a suspicious eye.  Few have asked how did it come to this?  This book answers that question, and many more about America's involvement in China, and how this involvement helped to bring the Communists to power.<br /><br />China at the end of the 1800s was being divided up by multiple European colonial powers.  America, seeing that African and the Middle East was already lost to Europe, decided to get into the game with China.  With the Open Door Policy, America introduced a political, economic and military presence in China.  Unfortunately, America, like the European powers, allied with the wealthy aristocratic land-owning class and ignored the slowly rising power of a people's movement known as the communists.<br /><br />Joseph Stilwell, an American officer stationed in China during the early 1900s saw this and realized that the Communists would eventually take over China, with our without Western help.  Stilwell tried to convince the American government to switch sides and ally with the Communists, or at least not oppose them.  His words went unheeded in America and the US provided direct financial and political support to the Nationalists of Chiang Ki-Shek during World War II and the Chinese Civil War.  The Communists eventually won, resulting in an long sense of silent distrust between China and the US until Nixon visited there while President.<br /><br />This book tells this entire history from the viewpoint of Joe Stilwell.  Vinegar Joe, as he was called, was one of the great officers who served in the US military.  He was one of the few Americans in China at that time who went out of his way to meet the local people, learn of their culture, and try to understand their thinking and way of life.  For this, he was often left out of the loop in the political circles of Washington D.C., diagnosed as having \\"gone native\\" in China.  The result is that the man that should have been in charge of the US policy towards China was totally ignored.<br /><br />Overall, this is a great book to read.  It provides an insightful history into US - China relations in the formative years of Communist China.  It also shows how the US military and the political establishment in D.C. interact.  The book also gives a thorough and complete view of one of history's more recent episodes of colonialism; the Western occupation of China prior to WWII.  Last, the book shows how the results of certain actions often betray the intentions behind them.  America wanted a friend in China, and so supported the minority party who relied on American wealth and military might to keep them in power: the Nationalists.  They lost, and the Communists who came to power were rightly suspicious of America.<br /><br />I highly recommend this book, and suggest it as required reading for any class on US-Asian or US-Chinese relations.e US policy towards China was totally ignored.      Overall, this is a great book to read.  It provides an insightful history into US - China relations in the formative years of Communist China.  It also shows how the US military and the political establishment in D.C. interact.  The book also gives a thorough and complete view of one of history's more recent episodes of colonialism; the Western occupation of China prior to WWII.  Last, the book shows how the results of certain actions often betray the intentions behind them.  America wanted a friend in China, and so supported the minority party who relied on American wealth and military might to keep them in power: the Nationalists.  They lost, and the Communists who came to power were rightly suspicious of America.    I highly recommend this book, and suggest it as required reading for any class on US-Asian or US-Chinese relations.	2005-07-23
US	30501489	R1X1LX1F7YK5C1	1585423637	542104859	Vanilla: The Cultural History of the World's Favorite Flavor and Fragrance	Books	3	14	16	N	N	Sweet read	This book gives an ecological and cultural history of vanilla, one of the oldest \\"spices\\" known to man.  The book itself is interesting to read, and can be finished in several hours.  It covers many things of interest such as: <br /> <br />1. The book describes the plant vanilla comes from, where this fits within the botanical world.  The book also goes into a little detail of the chemistry of vanilla, why it smells the way it does, what is the natural purpose(s) of this aroma, and what are similar plants like it. <br /> <br />2. The book describes how humans probably first learned about vanilla, how the use of vanilla slowly spread around the world, and how it is treated in different cultures throughout history (currency, aphrodisiac, status symbol, etc..). <br /> <br />3. The book shows with great detail how vanilla is used in fragrances and food dishes throughout the world.  The book is replete with cooking recipes showing how vanilla can be used in salads, seafoods, soups, meat dishes, etc...  <br /> <br />4. Last, the book explains the vanilla industry, from seed to final consumer, and shows how the various industries and countries take part in this truly global trade.  The book also shows how modern agriculture and agro-science has affected the domestication of vanilla (not a lot), even though science has a fairly good grasp of where the smell comes from and how to extract it for non-edible uses; i.e. garbage bags.   <br /> <br />Overall, this is an interesting book to read, and I recommend it.	2005-07-22
US	30501489	R1HUX3R6L3T8TM	0415278996	66102917	Heroin Century	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Good treatise	Of the major drugs that Western nations routinely wage war on: alcohol, tobacco, marijuana, cocaine, heroine, the last is the youngest known to man.  First extracted in the late 1800s in England, the history of heroin is well documented, unlike that of the other addictive drugs now commonly outlawed.  This book provides the history of this drug, and man's relationship with it in throughout the 1900s and in various countries.  Different aspects of heroin that are explored in this book include:    1. The plant it comes from, its relatives in the plant world, and the physiology of how it affects the human mind and body.  2. How heroin is extracted, purified, and converted into different forms for storage, transportation, and consumption.  3. The changes in laws relating to the agriculture and business of heroin.  This part of the book emphasizes laws in the West; i.e. the UK and USA.    4. The role of heroin in popular culture, underground culture, politics, international trade, science, and medicine, again with the emphasis on the US and UK.      There are several good features about this book.  First, one of authors is an ex-user, and now works with heroin addicts, thereby adding a little personal insight into their text.  Second, the other author is trained in psychiatry, adding a scientific view to the text.  Third, the text has a lot of references, and when there are issues which have not scientifically proven or disproven, the book clearly states so.  In all, I recommend this book as a source to learn more about heroin.  I give it four out of five stars because its emphasis was primarily on the US and UK; a more global view would have been nice.	2005-07-22
US	30501489	R2L3FN7Y307H4M	1591021820	538149696	Operation Hollywood: How the Pentagon Shapes and Censors the Movies	Books	4	10	15	N	N	An inside look at government propaganda	One of the principles the USA was founded upon was the freedom of speech; no government entity can restrict the freedom of expression of a private individual.  This however does not preclude government agencies from sponsoring their own speech, or supporting those whose speech reflects favorably on the actions of said agency.  This latter intrusion of government into the mass media can be as harmful to society if not more so than outright censorship, primarily because it is less overt and more excusable.   <br /> <br />This book deals with one form of such government - sponsored speech; the US military providing support to movie producers to make movies as long as the movies reflect favorably on the US military.  The book gives a thorough and carefully-cited history of how Hollywood works with various branches of the US military to help get movies made.  In turn, the military branch(es) in question have a say over the movie script, including the right to censor or rewrite entire scenes.  The US military helps by providing access to military hardware, installations, and sometimes personnel to movie makers working on military movies.  The result is often movies biased towards the US military, with a subtle goal of increasing recruitment.  Products of this arrangement include Top Gun, Black Hawk Down, and Stripes.  The unfortunate result is that parts of military life or military history that should be known are rewritten, whitewashed, or sometimes ignored altogether.  This includes abuse of war prisoners by US servicemen, rapes of innocent women in and around battlefields by US servicemen, and substance abuse within the military.    <br /> <br />This arrangement is supported at multiple levels in both Hollywood and the US government.  In Hollywood, directors, producers, studio companies, and actors and actresses take part in this symbiosis.  In the US government, soldiers, field officers, staff officers, and presidential administrative staff also take part in this symbiosis.   <br /> <br />There are however, those who refuse to play by these rules.  Two examples cited in the book are Kevin Costner and Oliver Stone.  The military refused to support Costner's production of Dances With Wolves because the script shows US soldiers killing Native Americans...during the 1800s!  This shows how ridiculous the censorship process has become.  US soldiers killing Native Americans is a commonly known fact, and should be acknowledged by the federal government.  The US military could have taken the initiative, owned up to their actions, sponsored the movie, and at the end of the movie's credits include an apology for their actions.  Instead, they refused any help whatsoever unless all the scenes between Native Americans and US soldiers were cleaned up to protect the military's image.   <br /> <br />Overall, the primary conclusion I got from the book is that to watch Hollywood movies with a little suspicion.  The story you are seeing has probably been tampered with and censored one or more government agencies, often with the purpose of furthering propaganda of one type or another.  Another conclusion I got from reading this book is that ever since 1970, the war movies that have done the best in terms of critical acclaim and Academy Awards have been those completed without military support; Platoon and Apocalypse Now are the two best examples.  In all, I am glad I read this book.  I highly recommend it.	2005-07-22
US	30501489	R2XUKDDFSC8X5T	1552093409	890326921	Creatures of the Deep: In search of the sea's 'monsters' and the world they live in	Books	3	8	11	N	N	Engrossing	The deep sea is considered the last place on Earth that is relatively untouched and unexplored by man.  As such, the last 20 years have witnessed an explosion in the number of books, movies (think IMAX), documentaries (Discovery Channel) and other lay-man oriented exposes on the deep sea.  This book fits right in with that trend, and serves as a good introduction to the biology of the deep sea.      The book describes the different zones of the ocean, how each is uniquely different from the others, and how they interact with each other.  The book then focuses on the deep sea, that layer of water that extends from 2 miles below the surface to the very sea-bottom.  The emphasis is on the different animals that live in this part of the sea, such as anglerfish, viperfish, certain types of sharks, the denizens around undersea hot vents, etc...  There is also discussion of life cycles, the ocean geography, currents, and the food chain.      The book itself is quite interesting to read, or just to flip through.  The photos of the various deep-sea animals are quite impressive, and in color of course.  The text itself is appropriate for anyone with at least a high school education.  The entire book can be read in one sitting, the level of science is appropriate for high-school seniors, and the pages are well laid out with pictures interspersed within the text.      Excepting the color photographs, the book itself is not much better than previous texts in this same topic.  I do recommend it for reading though, as it is enjoyable and educational at the same time.	2005-07-21
US	30501489	R2THKW3TINC1ES	039475526X	423697504	Cities of Salt	Books	5	17	17	N	Y	A sorrowful repeat of history	Cities of salt is a historical fiction book set in an unnamed Arab country during the first half of the 20th century.  It describes the changes in the place, a semi-arid desert, and its local Muslim inhabitants over this time period.  Specifically, it shows how the local Arab communities are changed for the worse by the intrusion of Western individuals, Western corporations, and Western society as embodied by the oil corporations.      This society begins as an egalitarian community based on family ties and extended kinships.  Everybody knows and trusts each other.  Gates, land titles and other ways in which individuals divide up resources do not exist, and all is shared in common.  Likewise guns and violence are almost non-existent as conflicts are solved slowly and surely by long and lengthy discussions.      Then Western geologists enter the scene and discover oil.  Western oil corporations are quick to follow.  To get access to the oilwells, and to ship them out via pipelines requires control of land, which of course is communally owned and used.  To solve this dilemma, the corporations try to cajole and bribe the locals to give up rights to these lands.  This often did not work, so the corporations resort to a tactic that was used against Native Americans and Africans in the previous four centuries.  Specifically, the local tribes had nominal leaders.  The corporate representatives would bribe these leaders with modern marvels such as the telephone, repeating guns, television, ice, etc...  Slowly these local leaders would switch loyalties from their own tribes to the Westerners.  Eventually, these local leaders, and their henchman, would sell out their fellow Arabs, order locals of the land needed by the oil corporations, and back up their orders with their newly acquired guns.      Overall, the egalitarian, communal society that existed was transformed into a dictatorship propped up by Western oil interests.  A ruling class was created that was distinct from and unrepresentative of the people at large.  Oil, and the control of its acquisition, transportation, and distribution, replaced people and communal consensus as the source of power.  And this is how many of the modern Arab nations came into being.  All in all this is a great book, probably the best fiction book to read to understand the thinking of Al Qaeda and roots of Arab anger at America.  The cloest way to describe it is the Arab world's version of America's Grapes of Wrath; the destruction of a communal and family-based way of life by modern corporations.	2005-07-21
US	30501489	R3DIGEZGQYCM2H	0471031925	502121701	Introduction to Surface Chemistry and Catalysis	Books	3	11	16	N	N	Extensive and thorough	This is one of the better and more complete books on surface science.  The book devotes seperate chapters to the various aspects of surfaces, such as structure, dynamics, thermodynamics, reactions at surfaces, etc...  The chemistry and physics of surfaces are covered in detail, and many topics are explained in detail; i.e. the difference between chemisorption and physiosorption.  The various properties of surfaces (work function, electron affinity, reconstructions) are explained and literature data is provided through extensive use of tables, charts and figures.  This book would serve as a good textbook for a class on the same topic.  This book would also serve as a great reference book.  The end of each chapter contains an extensive list of references.  The book includes a large list of acronyms commonly used in surface science.  There are also extensive lists of experimental data of surfaces; an example is the list of known reconstructions for both bare surfaces and surfaces terminated with different molecules.    <br /> <br />There are four major limitations to this text.  First, it covers the science of surfaces from a non-biological point of view.  Second, there is no dedicated chapter on techniques used for analyzing surfaces.  Instead, the different techniques are described in the sections that deal with related properties.  For example, the work function, electron affinity, and techniques used to determine these properties are all described in the chapter on electrical properties.  Third, this book was printed in 1994, making it somewhat dated, especially in a field that is growing as rapidly as surface science.  Last, there is very little discussion of how computer modeling, specifically quantum mechanical calculations, can be used to study surfaces.  This last drawback is partially due to the book being published in 1994, when quantum calculations on surfaces was still somewhat rare in the scientific literature. <br /> <br />In all, I would not buy this book, but would wait for a newer edition.	2005-07-21
US	30501489	R2G6XYBX1S08XD	0070592020	389571573	Foundations of Materials Science and Engineering	Books	3	11	11	N	N	Buy the newer editions	This textbook was one the most commonly used textbooks in undergraduate materials science classes throughout the 1990s.  Though old, and written at an introductory level, it is worth reading cover to cover.  The book covers all the major material classes (metals, semiconductors, polymers, ionic materials, etc..), covers all the basic principles (diffusion, bonding, corrosion, crystal defects, etc...), and includes a lot of diagrams, tables, figures, and pictures.   <br /> <br />The text is easy enough to read for any engineering college student, and really only requires someone to have had freshmen chemistry and physics (mechanics and E&M).  The chapters and sub-sections are well laid out, with sample problems and solutions for each section.  Each chapter is followed with homework questions.  All the pictures are in black and white, thereby keeping the printing costs and hence purchase price low.  The figures themselves are easy enough to understand, and the basic rules of labeling data series, adding legends, providing units on chart axes, etc.. are followed.   <br /> <br />The principle drawbacks to this book are the numerous errors in the sample problems and solutions, and the homework problems and solutions.  For a classroom setting, these errors end up requiring the instructor to do the problems him/herself, instead of just asking the students to find the answer at the back of the book.  This might actually be a good thing, forcing instructors to devote more time to review the homework they assign, but that is another discussion.  These errors are by and large fixed in the newer editions of this book, so I would not recommend buying this one.	2005-07-21
US	30501489	R1Q3PTRGDTDOJP	0471455636	488779295	The House of Klein: Fashion, Controversy, and a Business Obsession	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Good intro to the fashion industry	This book describes the life and career of Calvin Klein, one of the more influential fashion designers in the last 30 years. The book is laid out in chronological order, beginning with Klein's childhood, education, early career, and his recent status as a fashion heavyweight and pop icon.   <br /> <br />The book focuses more on his career, and how the fashion industry as a whole has affected and was affected by him.  For those looking for gossip about Klein or his associates, this book will not provide it.  What it does provide is an inside glimpse of how the fashion industry works.  Klein is unique in that he has been involved in just about every aspect of the Western fashion industry some time or another in his life; whether it be making designs, creating supply chains, maintaining an actual clothing store, running a fashion company, selecting models, putting together ad campaigns, dealing with media, etc..  As such, this book covers all these different aspects and shows the failures and successes of one man, Calvin Klein, in each of these sectors of the business.   <br /> <br />The book also shows the conflicts between the big egos in fashion, how these conflicts play out, and how they affect employees of the fashion industry, and us the consumers.  Last, the book gives a good idea of how money is divied up within the fashion world.  Specifically, when someone buys an article of clothing at a store, that money gets divided among many different parties, and this book shows how that is done.     <br /> <br />Overall, I am glad I read it.  Nearly everyone in America is affected by the fashion industry, yet so few of us know anything about it.  Reading this book helped changed that for me.  I only give it three stars because for all the pluses of this book; I found it boring.  Maybe I am just not interested in fashion.	2005-07-16
US	30501489	R2KAVSSZH3GMF1	0385515375	460992127	Good Muslim, Bad Muslim: America, the Cold War, and the Roots of Terror	Books	5	22	37	N	N	Gives the why of terrorism	Good Muslim, Bad Muslim; this is a phrase that American leaders like to emphasize when responding to the latest terrorist attacks.  Specifically, most Muslims are good Muslims in that they are peaceful law-abiding citizens.  But there are also bad Muslims, and these are the ones to look out for.  Similar statements have existed in American history with regard to blacks, Native Americans, civil rights protesters, unionists, and any one else not in power.  In all cases, the truth of the matter is that the powers that be have/are screwing over a group of people not in power (blacks, Muslims, Native Americans) and one day, some members in the latter group (Black Panthers, Al Qaeda, Chief Crazy Horse) finally decide to strike back.  This book is about one group of people; Al Qaeda and other Bad Muslims; and why they have declared war on America.   <br /> <br />In short, the author takes the reader on a short trip through Middle East and related history, and the West's involvement in it.  This includes America's overthrow of Iran's president in the 1950's, the Israel-Palestinian conflict, the first Gulf War, and of course, America's involvement in Afghanistan during the 1980's, and subsequent disenvoment during the 1990's.   <br /> <br />From this history, the author paints a sordid picture of how American governments and American corporations have created Al Qaeda and other Bad Muslism.  First, America undermined democracy in the Middle East by publicly and privately supporting dictators as long as said dictator kept the oil spigot open and kept the communists out.  Second, during the Afghan War, America encouraged its Muslim and Arab friends to send their crazies to Afghanistan to fight the Soviets.  Most of our friends were either secular Muslims, and/or Westernized Muslims, so they sent over those they feared the most; the fundamentalist \\"bad\\" Muslims.  Third, these \\"bad\\" Muslims did not die as supposed to in Afghanistan.  Instead, they got training, skills, weaponry,and most important, they got connected with each other and formed a leadership with Osama Bin Laden as the titular head.  Last, these \\"bad\\" Muslims came home as underground heroes, and have proceeded to take on issues that their home governments have ignored.  This includes local corruption, Western influences within the local culture, and Western influence over their local government.  As a result, many of these \\"bad\\" Muslims have decided to declare war on America and all we hold dear.   <br /> <br />In all, this book is very good, and worthy reading for any American.  It is in the same line as previous works such as Dust of Empire, Clash of Fundamentalisms, and stuff by Noam Chomsky, except the writing is cleaner and faster to get through. <br /> <br />Great read overall. <br />	2005-07-14
US	30501489	R2RY3YKIXLAJGK	0060957379	223028703	Winter World	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Somewhat slow reading but very interesting	This book describes terrestrial life in the cold reaches of the world, emphasis on the forests of Canada and the Northern states of the USA.  The text is written in first person in a diary format of the author traveling thru and living in winter environments.  This format is punctuated with occassional asides to elaborate on scientific issues.  The colors are black and white illustrations which are unfortunate for a nature book, but it does keep the purchase price down.   <br /> <br />The book itself starts of somewhat slow, but is interesting enough to keep you going.  The author describes how various animals living in cold climates have evolved to survive and even succeed.  I learned many things in this book that I was unaware of.  For instance, birds and mammals are not \\"warm blooded\\" in the strictest sense of the word.  Specifically, many birds and mammals have body temperatures that fluctuate in cycles to keep track with outside temperatures.  Man has a 24-hour cycles to match day-night transitions; during this cycle our body temperature changes by 1 - 3 degrees Fahrenheit.  Bears and other hibernating mammals have seasonal cycles to match the change in seasons.  The body temperature of a hibernating bear can be 20 - 40 degrees lower than that of an active bear.   <br /> <br />Conversely, many other animals that are considered \\"cold-blooded\\" in most high-school science textbooks actually are not.  For example, a lot of insects living in cold climates will huddle together and shiver to keep their body temperature elevated above the ambient temperature.   <br /> <br />Overall, I am glad I read this book, and would recommend it to other people.	2005-07-14
US	30501489	R1OAD4SC2C85KL	1586482688	457461405	Beyond the Age of Innocence: Rebuilding Trust Between America and the World	Books	4	5	9	N	N	Two glimpses of America	This book is written by a diplomat who has seen America from both the inside looking out, and the outside looking in.  As such, he offers a glimpse of America and our actions abroad that few others can offer.  This book describes America's foreign policy since World War II, how this policy and its actions have affected the world, and how this policy and its actions were viewed by the world.   <br /> <br />The topics/events covered include the Cold War, Vietnam War, trade policies with Latin America, trade policies with East Asia, and relationships with Middle East countries.  The book itself covers the history at a brisk pace with not a lot of detail.  What the author does emphasize is how America's actions abroad affected the lives and opinions of other people.   <br /> <br />This book is correct in saying that America has held forth democracy as the optimal form of government, and that the American standard of living also backed up this supposition.  This book is also correct in saying how America's actions often do not support democracy abroad; with listed examples being America's direct support of military dictatorships.  The author also gives a good summary of the financial crises in various nations during the late 1990's, and how the actions of the US government, both directly, and indirectly through the IMF and World Bank, impoverished millions in poorer countries.  As such, this book is another in a very long line of texts critical of American hypocrisy; many of which are worth reading.   <br /> <br />There are several things that the book is incorrect about.  First, the author retells his career, and how the society and culture of America provided him the opportunities to work hard and succeed in a way that few other societies would have provided.  This is true, but the author forgets to mention that he probably came from a family that emphasized hard work and success, hence giving him the skills and personality traits to succeed.  If the author was born and raised in America, and went thru the American public education system, he would have certainly turned out differently.   <br /> <br />Second, the author fails to mention that the economic opportunites he found in America are not open to all of America's citizens.  A quick tour of the various Native American reservations throughout the US will bear this out.  Throughout the 1700's, 1800's, and 1900's, white colonialists took over the North American continent.  This was accompanied by economic growth in white America, and the destruction of Native Americans.     <br /> <br />Overall, this book is worth reading, though the points it makes are covered in greater detail in many other books.	2005-07-14
US	30501489	R1VYX872CIFH7B	B0007D9V82	81823006	I Am My Own Wife : A Play	Books	3	1	5	N	N	Interesting	This is an autobiography of Charlotte, a transvestite German, written in a play format like the works of Shakespeare.  This work won a Pulitzer Prize the year it came out, and so I read it thinking it would be interesting.  I am not sure what to think of it still, or even whether Charlotte is a man acting like a woman, or the other way around.   <br /> <br />The play is about the life of Charlotte, a person born in Germany before World War II.  (S)he grows up in an abusive family, and kills his own father while still a minor.  (S)he flees his home in the city during the Nazi's term of power to life in the countryside (I think), and moves back after the Russians move in.  (S)he then navigates life under Communism, and survives to see the end of it and the reunification of Germany.    <br /> <br />The bulk of the book takes place during the Nazi reign first and the Soviet occupation second.  Charlotte recounts how he/she survives both regimes, both of which were not known for tolerance of homosexual behavior and/or transvestites.  There are hints throughout the play that Charlotte evaded persecution in varous sordid ways.  One is that (s)he acted as a spy for the government.  Second, (s)he might have had clandestine, sexual affairs with individuals in power, who then protected him/her in order to protect themselves.   <br /> <br />There are scenes of tragedy in the book, like when certain friends are carted of by the secret police, but these scenes are not sad enough to make you cry.  There are also funny scenes, but none of them are hilarious.  In all, this was an interesting read, and being such a short book, is worth the 1-2 hours to finish it.	2005-07-14
US	30501489	R1JR2TL9412O1X	0075542234	82385320	Ho	Books	4	36	39	N	N	Know thy enemy	Nations at war like to demonize the leader of their enemy as part of propaganda.  This is fine as long as the nation's leaders themselves do not believe in their own propaganda, but instead do their homework and get to truly understand their enemy.  This crucial step was missing from America's policy makers during the Vietnam War.  Every president involved; JFK, LBJ, to Nixon, did not bother to fully understand Ho Chin Minh, the leader of the Vietnamese Communists.  This is why books like this one are so important; written by private individuals, they offer unbiased, insightful glimpses at the other's leader.   <br /> <br />This book by David Halberstam is one of his less read books, but being so short in length, it is probably the most focused of his books.  This book describes the life of Ho, both private and public, his role in the Vietnam War, and his relations with other world leaders and governments, both before, during, and after the Vietnam War.  The treatment of his private life is shorted at the expense of covering more of his public life.   <br /> <br />The book does a good job of describing his personal traits that made him a leader: patience, self-sacrifice, humility, and foresight.  The book also does a good job of contrasting his personality with others he encountered in battle; Western generals, Western soldiers, and Western politicians.  The book is also worth reading because it offers a viewpoint of the Vietnam War as seen by Vietnamese, specifically Ho and his leadership.   <br /> <br />I highly recommend reading this book; it is short and easy to read.  It is also impartial and straight-to-the-point history, as expected from an author like David Halberstam.	2005-07-13
US	30501489	R1O7RZ4LYVCJDA	1587990768	989593651	Blood, Sweat & Tears: The Evolution of Work	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Somewhat boring and missing some key parts	This book provides a history of work and tries to examine why people work the way they do, how workplace institutions came about, how work has changed over time, and how work has in turn affected other parts of societies such as art, the government, and family life.  The premise of the book is great, which is why I picked it up.  The average American will probably spend about half his waking life doing something for money: work, yet so few of us ever think about how this all came about.<br /><br />The book correctly covers the topics that probably come to mind first when thinking of this subject: slavery, work hours, labor movements, child labor, the assembly line, etc...  The book also covers subjects related to work that the layman might not immediately think of.  These include lighting and how electric lights has changed work schedules, ergonomics, workers' insurance, and pensions.<br /><br />Unfortunately, the book misses more than it hits.  First, it focuses primarily on work known primarily in Western civilization, in either the agricultural or industrial settings.  This exclusion automatically leaves out most of Asia, the Meso-American societies, and Native Americans.  This is highly unfortunate, as I am sure many people would like to know why Asians are reputed to have a better work ethic than Americans, whereas the stereotype of hispanics is the noonday siesta.<br /><br />The book also focuses on activities that were sanctioned and labeled as work by the societies in which they existed.  This automatically leaves out prostitution and soldering, two of the oldest \\"jobs\\" known to mankind.  All in all, the book is a good introductory text to the topic, though incomplete with a lot of important omissions.	2005-07-13
US	30501489	R12WI9LHRQYO7K	0810980681	600573970	Jacques Cousteau: The Ocean World	Books	5	22	22	N	N	Wonderful and complete	This was one of the first books my parents ever bought me which I read all by myself.  It is still one of my favorite books and one of the few from my childhood that I have not donated to the local library.<br /><br />This book was written by Jacques Cousteau, the famous French oceanographer, inventor of numerous diving devices and technologies and maybe one of the most famous scientists of the 20th century.  This book is actually a condensation of a series of 20+ books, each of which are devoted to different aspects of the oceans.  The original series of books were based on various documentary TV shows produced by, starred in, or otherwise assisted by the author.  The original books were very popular in libraries around the world, so the author came out with a condensed version which I am now reviewing.<br /><br />This book is probably the best source to learn about the oceans, whether you are an adult or child.  The text is simple enough for children to understand, but complete and mature in its style, and written like an introductory textbook.  The figures and illustrations are gorgeous and in color, and still match those of more recent publications.<br /><br />Each chapter in this book is short enough to complete in one day, and they cover topics like coral reefs, the N and S Poles, ocean geography, marine mammals, history of life in the ocean, etc...  Each chapter begins with a beautiful color illustration on a black page, and is labeled with beautiful names.  For example, the chapter on coral reefs is labeled \\"Pharaohs of the Sea\\" in reference to their incredible age.  My favorite chapter is \\"The Art of Motion\\" which begins with a figure of a dolphin jumping out of the water.  This chapter's emphasis is on how different life forms in the ocean move about.<br /><br />Overall, this is one of my favorite books, and a must buy for any science collection.	2005-07-11
US	30501489	R37NN3NCM5TPHN	0743260457	924900643	Against All Enemies: Inside America's War on Terror	Books	3	16	27	N	N	Where are the references?	This book by Richard Clarke offers insight into America's involvement with terrorists and terrorist groups as witnessed by a person who saw it firsthand over the last two decades.  The book begins with a recollection of events on September 11, 2001, goes back through the history and events leading up to it, and finishes with a commentary on the Second Gulf War and the Bush Administration's foreign policy.   <br /> <br />This book is worth reading for numerous reasons.  First, the subject itself is something that most Americans need to know a lot more about; their government's role in combating terrorism, past and present.  Second, the author is one of the few Americans who actually know a lot about this subject from personal experience.  As such, this book should be on the short list for any American wanting to know more about Middle East terrorism and its affects on the US.  Related to this, the author has also served under several different Presidential administrations, adding an air of impartiality to his knowledge.  Third, the book is fairly balanced in giving the views and explaining the actions of various groups and countries; the French, English, Germans, Chinese, Japanese, Russians, NATO, the UN, and of course Democrats and Republicans in the USA.  Last, the book gives a succinct but fairly complete description of how Al Qaeda came about, its goals, and how it came to hate America.  This includes a history of the Afghan War, the First Gulf War and how it provoked Bin Laden, the role of Al Qaeda in the Balkans during the 1990s, in Somalia in 1993, and in the current domestic troubles of Saudi Arabia.   <br /> <br />The primary drawback about this book is its complete and total lack of references.  Yes, the author relates a lot of events from personal knowledge, but he also states a lot of things that he himself was not involved in.  Both of these should be referenced, whether it is to government documents, press releases, trial documents, newspaper clippings,other books, etc...  For example, the author spends some time going over Reagan's deployment of Marines to Beirut, the terrorist attack on them, and Reagan's ensuing withdrawal of American military presence from there.  I do not recall the author stating that he was involved in these decisions; therefore he is stating them as second-hand knowledge.  This then calls for references to more complete texts on the subject.  For a subject matter as important and for the accusations the author makes; i.e. the Bush Administration of 2000 - onwards has done a bad job fighting Al Qaeda, the author needs should have included a lot of references to back it all up.  For such a glaring omission, I cannot give this book 5 or even 4 stars, but only three stars.   <br /> <br /> <br />But read it anyways	2005-07-07
US	30501489	R3O1UZGOYA72QN	0199264317	605543378	The New Imperialism (Clarendon Lectures in Geography and Environmental Studies)	Books	5	121	128	N	N	Right on the money, though tough reading.	In the last thirty years or so, there has been a growing body of thought and literature in the world that America is the next Empire, maybe not in the Roman mold, but surely as powerful as the old English empire.  Contributions to this train of thought have come from numerous corners; peace activists protesting the Vietnam War, anti-globalization groups protesting US corporations, French farmers protesting McDonalds, Muslim scholars and clerics throughout the world, and isolationists within American politics. These groups and their arguments have tended to emphasize the how of empire; how America came to empire, how it is an Empire, and of course, how we will fall like other Empires.  This book tries to give a why, and does so from the oldest of corners opposing the American Way: socialism, and the writings of Marx and his followers.  As such, it does an impressive job within a very short number of pages.   <br /> <br />To be brief, this book proposes several points.  First, America has gradually turned into an empire over the last fifty years.  As evidence, the author points to the dozens of military bases the US has around the world.  American now has more military installations in more places than any other nation that has ever existed.  Many of these bases are located in countries that are not democratic; i.e. the citizens of these countries did not vote to invite America's military in.  The only possible conclusions are that the local government stays in power through America's support (financial or otherwise), or are outright puppet governments.   <br /> <br />Second, this is not an empire built on the control of land and the founding of colonies in say the English mold, but instead is an empire built on opening up consumer markets for American corporations and controlling non-renewable natural resources such as oil, again for domestic consumption.  The first part of this argument is self-evident; America has no colonies in the most literal sense and our ambassadors in most countries are holed-up in concrete fortresses instead of prancing around like local kings of the hill.  The second part of this argument is also as self-evident, to those whose eyes and ears are open.  Specifically, America's aid, money, attention and soldiers often end up in places that are either important trade posts (Suez and Panama Canals), have oilfields (the entire Middle East), or have a large business community which we do business with (Japan, Taiwan, South Korea, Germany).   <br /> <br />Third, America has made this transformation to the ignorance of most of its citizens, but to the alarm and suspicion of almost everyone else.  This is probably the most important point of this book.  Pull over any American on the street, give her a map of the world and ask her to point out all the countries which have been militarily attacked (bombed, invaded, occupied, etc...) by the US since 1900 (excluding the two World Wars).  She should answer Vietnam, Iraq, Afghanistan, and might recall North Korea, Somalia and Serbia.  She will probably leave out Haiti, Cuba, Panama, Philippines, Libya and Mexico, and will surely be unawares of Russia (US troops invaded during the Russian Revolution), Cambodia (secret bombings ordered by Nixon during the Vietnam War) and China (prior to World War II).  No other nation in the history of the world has intruded upon the soil of so many other countries as has the USA.  If this does not qualify America as an empire, than nothing can. <br /> <br />Fourth, this growth of empire has been fueled by the same historical reasons and processes that fueled the growth of the British Empire, the Nazis, the Roman Empire, and other great empires.  War serves as a way to divert the public attention from domestic troubles; usually economic.  To be exact, the fruits and costs of war alleviate various economic pressures that could doom a nation's leadership if otherwise left to fester.  The centuries prior to England's Age of Empire was marked by a stratification of English society.  Most of the livable land in England passed into the ownership of a small, wealthy minority.  You were either born into it or outside of it.  Those born into it were not going to give up wealth to their less privileged brethren, so colonial expansion provided a way by which those born outside of it could achieve wealth and status in life.  Population growth was relieved by sending people off to other lands.  The poor benefited because emigration kept the labor pool small, thereby keeping up wages.  The rich benefited because English colonies provided an outlet for their produced goods, and a source of natural resources (e.g. tea from India) and cheap labor (cotton from the American south).  Similarly, war and the resulting influence of other countries economic and political policies help the US economy grow.  <br /> <br />Fifth, all of this is not unexpected.  The path America has taken was described over a century ago by Karl Marx and his followers as the path all capitalist countries take.  After the end of the Cold War, intellectuals the world over concluded that Marxist thought was over; relegated to the trash heap of history.  Actually, the historical processes described my Marx have played themselves out numerous times in the 20th century. <br /> <br />Sixth, the current Bush administration marks a watershed in the history of America, akin to the rule of Augustus in Rome.  Specifically, the latter's rule marked the official transition from Roman Republic to Roman Empire.  The Bush administration, with either the consent or ignorance of the American electorate, have quickly exited the numerous treaties it had bound itself to in the previous five decades, has openly called out enemies to oppose, and has invaded two countries (so far).  As such, the span from 2001 - 2008 is when America, in the eyes of others, has decided to transform from world leader to world bully, akin to the transition from Roman Republic to Roman Empire.     <br /> <br />Seventh, like all empires, America clothes its actions abroad (i.e. foreign policy) in morals and ethics, but they are mostly driven by self-interest.  The author does not argue this point fully, primarily because it is elaborated elsewhere.  This keeps the page count down, but reduces the impact and persuasiveness of the book.  In response to the other (incredibly ignorant) review for this book, I will take up this argument here.   <br /> <br />a. In World War II, the US declared war on the Nazis ONLY AFTER they declared war on the US.  If the US was such a high-minded nation as the other review implies, America would have declared war on Germany the moment Nazi troops entered Poland.  Related to this, millions of Jews tried to flee Europe during the 1930's and 1940's.  Many of them tried to enter the US.  The US rejected most of them and only allowed in those with political connections, those with money, and those with training in quantum physics, nuclear physics, weapons technology (Einstein, Oppenheimer, etc...), and others that could help US science and technology.  If the US was such a moral nation, it would have allowed in all the Jews.  We, America, defeated the Nazis because they declared war on us, and posed a mortal threat to us.  This is no different and no better than one street gang eliminating another street gang that steps on its turf. <br />b. During the Cold War, the US intervened militarily in other countries to prevent the spread of communism.  This was often and usually done without the explicit consent of the populations of the host countries.  Vietnam is a prime example.  Throughout the 1960s, the US military frequently held secret, mock elections in villages throughout South Vietnam.  The Communist candidates nearly always won, even when the US-backed candidates had more funding and resources to bribe the electorate.  Why?  Because the Communist candidates offered what the people wanted.  This is why there was neveran election in South Vietnam during the US occupation.  America did not care about what the South Vietnamese wanted; we only cared about what we wanted.  <br />c. During the Cold War, the US provided aid to other countries that publicly supported the fight against communism.  An example is South Africa.  As long as the white government publicly opposed communism, the US government and US corporations turned a blind eye towards apartheid.  It was only the civil rights movement, and especially black activists that brought this to a halt in the 1980s.   <br /> <br />These and other experiences in countries around the world prove beyond a doubt that America did not care about liberty, justice, freedom and democracy in other countries, but only that they oppose communists.  The question then begs as to why America was so interested in opposing communism.  This leads to the last point argued in this book.  Every empire needs an opposite; Greece had Persia, Rome had Carthage, the English had first the Spanish and then later Napoleon.  We had communists.  Communists are bad for business because they believe in communal, non-transferable rights to everything, which is anathema to the concept of individual, transferable ownership of anything, the basis of capitalism and business.  Who runs America?  Not civil rights leaders like Caeser Chavez or Martin Luther King Jr.  Not progressive politicians like Eugene Debs or Ralph Nader.  No, America is run by businessmen (current and ex) and those who cater to business interests.  It was Robert McNamara, JFK and others connected to the business world who led America and its nave president LBJ into Vietnam, not those who were fighting for freedom and liberty like MLK Jr. or Malcolm X.  <br /> <br />In all, this is a great book to read, though the text is tough and hard to work through.	2005-07-07
US	30501489	R2KHGSGEG69ZJZ	0312282761	249212598	Savage Pastimes: A Cultural History of Violent Entertainment	Books	2	6	15	N	N	Interesting but insufficient	The purpose of this book is to provide a history of violent entertainment.  A lot of empirical studies in this field have been generated out of the social sciences in Western society over the last century or so.  These texts tend to be more appropriate for college classes or scientific studies, but not for light reading.  Not so here; the length and style of the book lends itself to an easy read on a lazy afternoon, which is nice.  The text is simple to read, and there are enough references on any page to provide depth and validity.   <br /> <br />From my reading, the title is a misnomer as the book focuses more on the portrayal of violence in entertainment than violent entertainment itself.  For example, the book spends a lot of pages reprinting and commenting on passages from texts by Shakespeare, Mickey Spillane, the Grimm brothers, and others that graphically describe violence such as killing, raping, fighting, and butchery.  On the other hand, there is very little history on boxing, wrestling, gladiatorial combat, martial arts, and other forms of violent entertainment known to history.  One glaring omission is the view of war and how it has changed with time.  In the first battle of Bull Run in the US Civil War, civilians went to the battlefield with picnic bags beforehand to get good seats for watching the mayhem.  Of course once the artillery started firing and the battle became a route, the fans ran off.  But the fact that they came to watch instead of hiding in their houses tells something about their views on violence.  For these omissions, I dock one star.   <br /> <br />The book is formatted into eight chapters that chronologically describe the history of violent entertainment within Western society (Anglo-Saxon and now American) over the last 500 years or so.  This is the quite limited.  There is barely a mention of violence in entertainment within Eastern European, Hispanic, Asian, African, or even Native American cultures.  To be specific, this book looks at violent entertainment within the context of Protestant society; Germany after Luther, England after Thomas More, and America.  As such, the conclusions drawn from the text must be suspect for the limited scope of its treatment.  For this I dock another star. <br /> <br />With respect to conclusions, this book makes two, though in very subtle ways.  First, the portrayal of violence in entertainment does not lead to violence in real life.  Second, the portrayal of violence in entertainment might even be a pressure valve to release stress that in turn reduces the frequency and/or severity of violence in real life.  These conclusions, which might be true, are not well argued for by this book.  With regard to conclusion number one, the author describes trends in the display of violence in entertainment and how that correlates to rates of crime. For example, crime rates have steadily gone down in the US over the last three decades even though video games, TV, and movies that portray violence have become more available to children.  I think the drop in crime rate is due more to an aging of the population, and a rise in the use and efficacy of surveillance technology, than to any changes in our entertainment.  Also, Americans have been getting fatter over the last three decades.  Not to be demeaning, but overweight people are less likely to get into street rumbles or bar fights than physically fit people, solely because they are less physically able to.  With regard to conclusion number two, I think the author should spend more time around teenagers.  I have known several teenagers who after seeing an episode of \\"Jackass\\" were inspired to recreate some of these pranks in real life, often to the detriment of their community.  For these huge leaps to conclusions, I dock another star. <br /> <br />In all, the book is easy to read, though the depth of coverage and insight does not inspire much.  I give it two out of five stars.	2005-07-07
US	30501489	R33ZMORW74WQY0	0312325096	898448326	The Pivotal Season: How the 1971--72 Los Angeles Lakers Changed the NBA	Books	4	4	8	N	N	Interesting and funny	This book tells the story of the 1971 - 1972 Los Angeles Lakers, the team that won a record 33 games and the eventual NBA championship.  I read this book as a basketball fan, and found it to be quite interesting and entertaining.   <br /> <br />The book begins with a good background to the players and coaches prior to the season, their successes and their failures.  The book also gives a short history of the NBA up to that point.  <br /> <br />The meat of the text focuses on the season itself, with a short summary of each of the 82 games played during the regular season, and each of the playoff series the Lakers went through to become champions.  The text discusses both events on-court, off-court in the locker-room, and outside basketball altogether.  Therefore, we get a glimpse of life in the NBA; the parties, the traveling, and of course the interactions between the media, players, and management.   <br /> <br />In all, this was an enjoyable book to read, taking about three hours.	2005-07-05
US	30501489	RJW3ESZENBQSF	0415272491	511379106	Electronic Structure of Alloys, Surfaces and Clusters (Advances in Condensed Matter Science) (v. 3)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Good book on advanced modeling subjects	This is one of the better books on the use of first-principles calculations to examine solid-state properties.  The emphasis of this book is the analysis of non-periodic systems such as free surfaces, clusters, and both ordered and disordered alloys.  The book is worth reading for several reasons. <br /> <br />1. There is good coverage of the various ab initio techniques used in electronic structure calculations: tight-binding, plane-wave psuedopotentials, LMTO, LAPW, KKR, Green's Functions, and Car - Parinello molecular dynamics.  This coverage includes a thorough listing of important equations without too much math, and comparisons between different methods.  The book does assume a basic knowledge of quantum mechanics, specifically operator algebra, so reader beware.   <br /> <br />2. There are thorough definitions of the various properties that can be obtained by ab intio calculations.  These include good descriptions of the density of states, cohesive energy, and configurational entropy. <br /> <br />3. The book is written more like a textbook than a publication of results.  Each chapter focuses on a fairly narrow subject, but includes a thorough overview of the science involved, before getting into the simulation results.   <br /> <br />4. The references given at the end of each chapter are very comprehensive, and often include other books written on materials simulations, electronic structure.  <br /> <br />The only drawback I could find was in the chapter on recursion methods.  This method is not used as often in quantum calculations, and was extremely difficult to understand.   <br /> <br />Overall, this was a good book to read, though it is fairly expensive for 370 pages.	2005-07-04
US	30501489	R3BKU7MMG6YJPG	1400054664	734009986	The Enduring Revolution: How the Contract with America Continues to Shape the Nation	Books	3	7	18	N	N	Incomplete and subtly biased	The aim of this book is to explain the origins of the Contract with America and its effects on the American political landscape.   <br /> <br />It succeeds on the first goal; the book provides the who, what, when, where, how, and why in explaining the origins of the Contract with America.  This includes naming people within and outside the GOP, at both the federal and local level.  There is also sufficient coverage of how individuals outside of government contributed to different parts of the Contract, such as Ross Perot and various influential members in the media.   <br /> <br />The book also provides a detailed account of how the Contract was received by Democrats, the media, and the public in general both before and after the 1994 mid-term elections.   <br /> <br />On the other hand, the book does not cover all the effects of the Contract with America.  Specifically, the book emphasizes effects at the federal level, which have actually been quite limited: notice the spending growth from 1995 - 2004 in most of the departments and programs that the GOP wanted to cut or eliminate in 1994.  Instead, the Contract with America has inspired the biggest changes at the state and local level.  I will list and elaborate on these below. <br /> <br />1. The Contract emphasized the importance of a balanced budget.  In contrast with the Republican - controlled Congress, numerous state and local legislatures have taken this to heart.  After the dot.com bust, tax revenues across the nation dropped.  Many state and city legislatures have responded by cutting spending, often in social service programs such as education and health care.  Witness the newest trend in the nation's high schools: fees for extracurricular programs.  This cost-cutting is new; in previous downturns legislatures often would just go into the red or raise taxes.   <br /> <br />2.  The Contract with America emphasized low taxes.  Since 1994, laws, referendums, and initiatives have passed in various states, counties, and cities that limit the government's ability to raise and collect taxes.  But the public's desire for public goods has not subsequently reduced.  The result is two unintended consequences.   <br /> <br />First are fees.  From 1994 to now, American society has witnessed an explosion in the number, frequency and variety of government fees.  There are fees on everything: phone bills, airplane tickets, student loan applications, etc...  This fee-craze has spilled over into the private sector also: fees on home applications, ATM fees, credit card fees, phone card fees, fees on gift certificates, etc...  Basically voters told their governments to keep a lid on taxes AND maintain a balanced budget, but did not keep a lid on their own desires, so governments respond by raising fees.  <br /> <br />Second is personal debt.  The emphasis on low taxes and a balanced budget has restricted the ability of local governments to provide services such as health care and education, which many people use and desire.  Many of these users would not and could not be able to afford these services on their own.  The result is that a larger percentage of the US population is in debt in 2004 than in 1994.  A large percentage of this debt is due to medical and educational (college) expenses.   <br /> <br />3.  The Contract with America specifically left out social issues such as abortion, flag-burning, prayer in schools, teaching of evolution, gay marriage, etc...  Congressional Republicans as a whole have tended to follow this line, though Democrat opposition has a lot to do with this.  But a side-effect of these exclusions is a rise in social conservatism at the state and local level.  This is exemplified by the fact that several states have included bans on gay-marriage in their state Constitutions.   <br /> <br />4. The Contract with America emphasized deregulation, specifically fewer laws to restrict businesses and individuals.  This included environmental, financial, business, and other areas of the law.  The immediate result of all this was greater freedom for individuals and organizations to do what they like - make money.  The long term results are more disheartening, and I will provide an example.  From 1994 - 2004, the world saw an explosion in Internet business, and specifically the use of credit and debit cards to purchase products online.   <br /> <br />European legislatures acted in concert with this trend by passing numerous laws to prevent identity theft, credit card theft, etc...  Legislatures and governments in America did not follow suite, primarily because of the deregulation emphasis brought about by the Contract with America.  The result is that a much higher percentage of Americans have and will be victims of identity theft.  American legislatures are now playing catch up in this field; after hundreds of thousands of Americans have been victimized... <br /> <br /> <br />These four trends that I have listed are just the tip of the iceberg.  The Contract with America and those who were elected on its platform have brought about a lot of changes to this country, both at the national and the local level.  Some of these changes were intended, but as I have tried to show, most were unintended and probably unforeseen by both Republicans and Democrats.  Because of these important omissions, I dock 2 stars.   <br /> <br />Contrary to what some other reviewers have said, this book is not impartial.  It is biased conservative, though in a quite subtle manner.  Several times in the book, Democrats are referred to as simply liberals, or liberal Democrats.  Reading this book, I could distinctly hear traces of Rush Limbaugh or Sean Hannity speaking through the words.  <br /> <br />In all, this book is worth reading, but it omits a lot more than it covers, and for that, its content must be taken with a grain of salt.	2005-06-28
US	30501489	R2X4V6MPXQ3DNU	9810231490	173101173	Topics in Computational Materials Science	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Readable and understandable	This is one of the better books to read to learn about atomistic simulations of materials.  The book is divided into chapters, and each chapter is authored by a different set of authors.  The different chapters cover topics such as tight-binding, plane wave pseudopotential calculations, algorithm and software development, modeling of alloys, photonic band structure, and modeling of growth mechanisms (specifically semiconductors).   <br /> <br />Given the topics of the various chapters, there is a heavy emphasis on quantum mechanics (QM) and the different varieties in which QM calculations are carried out: DFT, Green's functions, tight-binding, Car-Parrinello, the variational principle, etc...  The principle drawback of this book is that all of the chapters relating to QM calculations spend time going over the fundamentals of their calculations.  Due to limited space, these reviews are always short, superficial and brief.  This approach leads to much wasted space.   <br /> <br />A better organizational style would be to have an intro chapter on QM emmphasizing the variational principle, mean-field and Born-Oppenheimer approximation, and how these are used in Hartree and Hartree-Fock theory.  Follow this up with dedicated chapters on DFT, tight-binding, and advanced methods such as Green's functions.  Then the remaining chapters could focus on specific applications such as photonic band structure, algorithms, and alloys.  In this way, there would be less repetition of material.   <br /> <br />One plus of this book is that the mathematical level is easy enough to understand for someone with background in linear algebra and differential equations.  The equations and the text also complement each other very well, and this book's explanation of tight-binding is one of the easiest to understand out there.   <br /> <br />Another plus is the dedicated chapter on software and algorithm development, and how computational cost scales with various simulation parameters.  Unfortunately, this chapter pertains to plane wave pseudopotential calculations principally.  This chapter would have been more applicable if written in terms of how scaling and software relate to generic processes found in most types of simulations: Ewald summation, matrix diagonalization, implementation of the conjugate gradient method, sampling techniques, self-consistency, etc... <br /> <br />Overall, I would recommend the reading of this book, though not the purchase.  <br /> <br />	2005-06-24
US	30501489	R2NXNP4SDHAV1F	0470091827	142311569	Essentials of Computational Chemistry: Theories and Models	Books	4	46	49	N	N	Excellent treatise	This book is a follow-up to a previous release and is a great textbook for learning how to simulate atoms, molecules, and fluid mixtures using a variety of techniques.  Its positive attributes includes the following: <br /> <br />1. The author makes it a point to explain the various phrases, acronyms, and terms common in the field, but which may confuse the novice or outsider.  For example, the first chapter explains the concept of a potential energy surface, how it can be obtained, and the information that can be gleaned from it.  These are simple concepts to those experienced in atomistic modeling but can be mysterious to newcomers.   <br /> <br />2. The mathematics in the text are simple enough to be understood without the reader having to resort to proving things herself, but they are complete enough to understand how physical concepts are represented and solved.  The equations are also set apart from the text such that they are easy to read. <br /> <br />3.  There are a lot of diagrammatic figures that explain what is going on; i.e. how atoms interact via certain empirical potentials.  One can also tell that the figures were made specifically to teach a concept, and are not reproductions from a publication.  <br /> <br />4.  The text is appropriate for first-year graduate students in physics, engineering, and chemistry, and the book provides chapters dedicated to quantum mechanics and thermodynamics, the two topics science and engineering students have the most difficulty in.   <br /> <br />5.  The case study at the end of each chapter are well laid out and do a good job of illustrating the concepts taught in that chapter.   <br /> <br />6.  There are a lot of flowcharts that show the process by which a calculation is carried out.  See for example the appendix on determining the point symmetry of a molecule.  Flowcharts are essentiall to understanding how software works, and is probably the biggest difference between computer science and all the other sciences.Computers execute instructions and programmers use flowcharts to decide how a software is put together.  Classes and books in the other science and engineering majors are often devoid of flowcharts, so the use of flowcharts in this book helps the reader get into the computational mindset.   <br /> <br />7.  The list of references at the end of each chapter are primarily to review articles and articles that introduced important concepts.  This provides the reader alternate sources of learning.  Gone are long lists of case studies and published data.   <br /> <br />With so many pluses, why did I give four stars instead of five?  Four reasons mainly. <br /> <br />A. There is almost no coverage of the algorithms used to do the mathematics, whether it be diagonalizing the Hamiltonian, or an Ewald summation of interatomic potentials.  For example, I do not recall reading anything about the conjugate gradient method anywhere in the book, yet this algorithm is coded into most major codes in computational chemistry like VASP, SIESTA, ADF, etc... <br /> <br />B. There was minimal discussion of techniques for modeling solids.  There were chapters dedicated to modeling gases and liquids, but nothing on solids.  This is especially disheartening considering that most of the funded chemistry (theoretical and experimental) going on today involves solids; whether it is designing new polymers, hydrogen storage for fuel cells, or examining surface catalysis.   <br /> <br />C.  A lot of the research going on today in chemistry is in the properties of surfaces and interfaces.  Yet there is little mention on modeling of the concepts related to this; such as surface and interface energy, interface lattice msimatch, symmetry of slabs, etc... <br /> <br />D.  The book emphasizes the theories behind doing a calculation, such as the Hartree-Fock method, DFT, force fields, etc..  But there is only some mention on the data that can be generated by a simulation software, and how to use them.The examples I can recall are bond orders, population analysis, radial distribution function, and charge density.  Other items that should have been included include density of states (vibrational and electronic), electron localization function, and optical properties such as refractive index or dielectric constant.   <br /> <br />Overall, it is still a great book and one worth reading.	2005-05-18
US	30501489	R3JJ7LV9URZ8AO	0815512783	989358650	High Performance Thermoplastic Resins and Their Composites	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Good, but outdated and way too expensive	Throughout the early and middle 20th century, thermosets have traditionally been preferred over thermosets for high temperature, high strength applications.  This began to change in the 1970s as thermoplastics such as PPS (polyphenylene sulfide) and PBI (polybenzimidazole) came to market.  These new, high performance thermoplastics often had properties as good as, or better than most thermosets, and their property densities (i.e. strength to weight ratio) made them more economic to use over many metal alloys and ceramics.   <br /> <br />The production of many of these new polymers were kept under tight wraps by companies, hence the amount of literature on their properties is scarce compared to materials such as polyethylene or polystyrene.  This book helps to remedy this problem by providing a summary of these new thermoplastics, along with tables of data.  Unfortanetely, much of the property data cited in this text are from the manufacturers themselves.   <br /> <br />Overall, this book is a useful text, and a good introduction to the new thermoplastics that are becoming available.  I would not recommend purchasing this book though; it is expensive, and being published in 1990, is very much out of date.  A lot of literature data has been published since 1990, and newer books on this topic are becoming available every year.	2005-02-19
US	30501489	R3667A1XROAZ9S	081551235X	643138437	Handbook of Polymer Coatings for Electronics: Chemistry, Technology and Applications (Materials Science and Process Technology Series)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Concise and thorough	This book provides a broad overview of polymer coatings used in the electronics and semiconductor industry.  The first several chapters go over the major classes of polymers used in electronics.  The subsequent chapters cover the manufacturing and properties of polymers as it relates to electronics.  The final chapters cover different electronic applications polymers are used in.  <br /> <br />The text itself is easily readable by engineers or scientists, practicing or in training.  The math and relevant equations are kept at the level of algebra.  There are a lot of pictures and diagrams that show the structure of different polymers, and how they are formed.   <br /> <br />The book includes a lot of references and literature data that has been compiled into easy-to-read tables.  A typical example is a listing of dielectric coatings, their trade names, dielectric properties, and their suppliers.   <br /> <br />This book serves as both a good textbook, and a handy reference.  I would not purchase it though; it is somewhat dated by now, and similar texts are published on a yearly basis.	2005-02-17
US	30501489	RX95XZIH4R14L	354064377X	798794980	Computational Materials Design (Springer Series in Materials Science)	Books	1	2	2	N	N	Not worth the money or the time to read it	The goal of this book is to show how computer modelling can be used to aid the design and selection of materials for different applications in science and engineering.  These include designing of metal alloys for structural applications, designing compounds to obtain specific magnetic properties, modeling radiation damage of different materials, and calculating phase diagrams of ternary mixtures.  The different modeling techniques covered include total energy ab initio calculations, molecular dynamics, finite element analysis, and thermodynamic modeling using the CALPHAD approach.  <br /> <br />The book is laid out in chapters, with each chapter written by a distinct group of authors showcasing a distinct way computer modeling is used to aid in materials design.  Therefore, the book is example-driven, with a lot of references to industrial and academic publications.  The book's goal is noble, and worth the cause, but the book itself has numerous shortcomings which I list below. <br /> <br />1. Modeling of real phenomena and processes requires an accounting of finite temperature affects.  These effects can be explicitly included in the model itself, or data obtained from the model can by corrected for the exclusion of temperature effects.  This is extremely important since many properties are temperature dependent / activated.  This book consistently failed to address this issue in a quantitative sense.  Yes, rate equations and other temperature-dependent formulas are included in the appropriate spaces, but there is minimal mention of how temperature affects are incorporated into a simulation. <br /> <br />2. Size effects are barely mentioned.  Calculations of bulk properties of perfect (elemental or stoichiometric compoud) crystals represent the only case where size convergence is not needed.  For all other systems, whether it be alloys, free surfaces, interfaces, or thin films, there needs to be convergence of some property (energy/atom, force, etc..) with respectto the size of the system.  This is generally missing from the examples given in the text, which is especially disconcerting seeing that the book is example-driven. <br /> <br />3. Comparison of different methodologies. There are various methodologies available to model a given structure or phenomena.  For example, to determine the vacancy formation energy in bulk aluminum, one could use DFT with the LDA/GGA, the embedded atom method, Green's functions, lattice Monte Carlo, etc...  These different methods differ in their computational cost, precision, accuracy, and robustness.  Specfically, different methods come closer to reproducing electron behavior and hence bonding.  The different chapters in this book generally failed to give a thorough explanation of why a specific method was used over others, and what are the limitations inherent to that method.  This is especially important if the model is being used to select materials for applications. <br /> <br />4. Clarification of precision, accuracy, and applicability.  In the chapter on designing metal alloys, atom-atom interactions between different elements were calculated using Lennard - Jones potentials!  Any good modeler can tell you that Lennard - Jones potentials should only be used for modeling noble gas solids, and maybe ionic solids.  LJ potentials should never be used to model metallic systems, especially alloys.  These examples should have been examined using DFT + LDA/GGA, or maybe EAM / EMT at worst.  This book was published in 1999, so the examples included in it were probably worked out over the previous 5 years.  Computing hardware and software had advanced far enough by the early 1990s for the relevant authors to do their modeling at a higher level than LJ potentials.    <br /> <br />5. Lack of simulation details.  The book was heavy on the science and the simulation results, but lacking on the simulation procedure.  This is a big no-no.  Experiment or simulation, the accompanying write-up should be detailed enough for somebody else to reproduce the results.  I do not think anyone can reproduce the results given in this book using only this book and the references given herein. <br /> <br />Overall, the aim of this book was good, and the mix of topics was diverse and appealing to a wide audience.  But the treatment of the subject matter was horrendous.  I advise against buying or reading this book.	2005-02-16
US	30501489	R2B28K9PGSJK1W	0130181684	216426317	Polymer Science and Technology (2nd Edition)	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Easy intro to polymers	This textbook provides a good introduction to polymers, their processing, applications, and properties.  The book assumes minimal prior knowledge of polymers, and begins with a simple intro to properties such as glass transition temperature, molecular weight, thermoplastic versus thermoset.   <br /> <br />Electrical, mechanical, and chemical properties of polymers are discussed and related to the structure and composition of the material.   <br /> <br />The book is organized very well.  It includes dedicated chapters on synthesis, processing, degradation, and for the different classes of polymers.  Each chapter is short and can stand alone by itself.  A short list of references is also provided at the end of each chapter, and these are organized according to the different sections in each chapter.    <br /> <br />The level of the text is appropriate for juniors or seniors in engineering or chemistry.  The math is kept at a simple level; nothing harder than integral calculus, and there are a lot of pictures and diagrams.  The amount and scope of information also warrants purchasing this as a general reference for polymers.   <br /> <br />I recommend this book for those who are learning about, or teaching about polymers.	2005-02-10
US	30501489	R1LBIMB7KVNCPI	0521620058	380389758	Electronic Basis of the Strength of Materials (Cambridge Solid State Science Series)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Great book on understanding solids	One of the big \\"interdisciplinary\\" subjects in science and technology today is using atomic-scale simulations and high-end characterization techniques to determine the electronic structure of materials, and understanding reactions at surfaces and between molecules.  Such research is especially prevalent in the (bio)chemical, pharmaceutical and semiconductor industries where the drive is to know how electrons move between adjacent atoms to form/break bonds, and carry current.       One topic that often gets shorted in terms of publications of both journals and books is how the electronic structure of a material can be used to understand its mechanical properties.  This is unfortunate, especially considering that mechanical properties are often easier to measure, calculate, visualize and understand than electrical, optical, or magnetic properties.  This book addresses this deficiency, and for this I give it one star.      The book begins with introductions to quantum mechanics and deformation mechanics that undergraduates in science or engineering can understand.  From there, the book shows how the electronic configuration of different atoms can be used to deduce the type of solids they will form, and their mechanical properties such as bulk and shear modulus.  The different types of intermolecular and intramolecular bonding are also discussed, and how each is attributable to different electron configurations.      The overall level of the book is appropriate for upper-division undergraduates in physics, chemistry, materials or mechanical engineering.  All equations are accompanied by at least one paragraph of explanation, and the reader is never lead on complex derivations from one equation to another.  Models to illustrate theories are always explained in conceptual terms first, then in mathematical terms if space allows.  Therefore, this is the easiest electronic structure book to understand and follow mathematically.  Also, most major models for use in simulatingsolids are covered.  These include empirical models such as the Morse potential, Lennard-Jones potential, etc., and the models that account for electrons: HOMO-LUMO, VSEPR, free-electron, etc...  I give this book a second star for addressing bonding from so many different viewpoints, and a third star for keeping the math simple and readable.    A fourth star goes to this book for its the simplified use of group theory.  Many books on electronic and atomic structure introduce group theory, and then incorporate it via matrices in the rest of the text.  This is appropriate for a complete understanding, but can be quite challenging to follow.  This book takes an alternate course; for many concepts it simplifies the true 3-D picture to 1-D or 2-D thereby simplifying the symmetry considerations.      I give this book its fifth star for its simple, yet elegant pictures, tables, and graphs.  I illustrate with two examples.  First example is the comparison of moduli values for different materials.  The book does this with 3-D plots that show how the moduli changes with one trend (e.g. ionicity in bonding) versus it changing with another trend (e.g. atomic weight).  Beautiful!  The second example are the pictures showing the different types of plastic deformation at the atomic-scale: edge vs shear dislocation, twinning versus gliding, etc...  Excellent.  Dr. Gilman, if you are reading this review, I suggest you show your pictures to the UK people who write the MATTER software.  They should use some of your pictures.    I highly recommend this book to anyone who uses computer simulations or experimental techniques to examine the physical and mechanical properties of solids at the nanoscale.  I also recommend this book to materials scientists in general, and metallurgists in particular.	2005-02-03
US	30501489	R2CG5VRKOHEMZF	3540426760	419770452	Numerical Modelling in Materials Science and Engineering	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Modelling at the continuum scale	With the increased power and availability of computers, computer aided modeling is becoming more prevalent in various fields of engineering.  One important example is modelling of stress, strain, and flow (plastic solid and liquid) at the continuum level.  Examples of this are finite element analysis, finite difference analysis, Monte Carlo simulations, and the random walk. This book covers all of these topics and generally serves as a good introductory textbook to learn about modelling at the continuum scale.  The mathematical treatment is very brisk though, and requires prior knowledge of linear and partial differential equations, linear algebra, and basic computing.	2005-01-27
US	30501489	R76ZROWKEVCWU	019855883X	283856710	The Theory of Intermolecular Forces (International Series of Monographs on Chemistry)	Books	3	2	7	N	N	Comprehensive treatment	This book provides a comprehensive examination of the forces between atoms and molecules, specifically in finite systems such as gases and clusters.  The different types of bonding are examined, and a strong mathematical treatment accompanies the whole text.   <br /> <br />I did not give five stars to this book for two reasons.  First, there could be more figures to aid in the understanding of the text.  Second, the text emphasizes the Hartree-Fock (HF) approach to understanding the quantum mechanical origins of different forces, even though by 1996 (the book's publication date) density functional theory (DFT) calculations were often as accurate as HF calculations for molecules, and were systematically better for extended solids.  Therefore, the text should have used less HF theory in explaining different phenomena.	2005-01-24
US	30501489	R1X5JYOPRDF8H6	0521523397	43697279	Atomic and Electronic Structure of Solids	Books	5	30	30	N	N	Splendid work	As analytical and synthesis techniques become more powerful, it is now possible to examine and fine-tune materials at the atomic scale.  Likewise, continual advances in computer hardware and software have allowed more people the ability to model processes and materials at the atomic scale.  Consequently, there is a growing need for good textbooks on the atomic and electronic structure of solids.  Alas, most of the relevant textbooks suffer from one or more of the following drawbacks:    1. There is too much math and physics for most people.  In other words, there are too many equations, proofs, and derivations.  This usually manifests itself in sections on quantum mechanics and ab initio modeling.      2. The texts become less an educational tool and more a showcase of the latest and greatest achievements by the author(s).  This negative can often be spotted by looking at the book's table of contents.  If each chapter is written by a separate author, then you can be sure that the text often end up as extended reviews of that author(s)' publications.    3. Not enough coverage of background information.  The study of solids at the atomic level is being approached by multiple fields that usually have NO interdisciplinary overlap in education institutions.  Examples include geology, electrical engineering, biochemistry, tribology, materials science, etc...  Therefore, a book to serve members from all these fields should have a lot of background information in topics such as thermodynamics, quantum mechanics, crystal structure and defects, group theory, etc...     4.  Lack of pictorial representation.  A picture is worth a thousand words; and even more so if you are trying to understand microscopic phenomena such as bonding, dislocation motion, etc...   Too many textbooks have too few, well-explained pictures.      This book by Kaxiras does not suffer from any of these drawbacks.  I consider it the best book so far on this topic.    First, it is written entirely by one author, yet I could not find a single reference to any of his publications within the book.  There was absolutely no feeling that this book was trying to review someone's work, or some body of work.  Instead, the book read like a well writtent textbook.    Second, the topics are written for a general audience, with enough background information that undergraduate science and engineering students can understand it.  Specifically, the first chapter of the book starts with the Periodic Table of Elements and explains why different elements form different types of solids.  This is extremely valuable information for anyone who has never had a course in materials science, which probably means most chemists, electrical engineers, biologists, etc...    3.  Lots and lots of review literature is cited- WITH explanations of why it was suggested to the reader for further reading.    4. I counted 1 picture per every 2 pages.  That is astounding.  Even though the pictures were B&W, I understand all of them.  Every one had axes labeled, a legend, a descriptive header, etc...    5. Thorough and basic explanation of band structures.  Too many texts spend too much time explaining the different methods of obtaining band structures (LMTO, LAPW, pseudopotential + plane waves, APW, PAW, etc...).  This book instead provided a whole chapter on understanding a band diagram, correlating a band diagram with the geometry of a material, and the physical origins of band structures.  This is prerequisite knowledge before any further attempts to understand the electronic properties of materials.    6.  Justification of each approximation, along with accompanying successes and failures.  This book examined the mean-field, Born-Oppenheimer, frozen-phonon, pseudopotential, and other approximations commonly used in atomic-scale modeling, and provided thorough, well-organized justification of each one, along with a listing of their successes and failures.    In all, I recommend this book to anyone as a prerequisite reading before attempting to do research on the atomic or electronic structure of materials.	2005-01-18
US	30501489	R3SVZS37M8V4XL	3540210512	798077167	642: Computational Materials Science: From Basic Principles to Material Properties (Lecture Notes in Physics)	Books	2	5	5	N	N	Difficult and dense	This is the most difficult book I have ever read on computational materials science.  I do not recommend this book for anyone that has not previously taken classes in solid state physics, quantum mechanics, statistical mechanics, partial diff equations, linear algebra, and computer programming.   <br /> <br />The book's title states \\"... From Basic Principles to Material Properties\\".  This is a major misnomer.  When I read the term basic principles, I think of Hartree-Fock, classical MD with empirical potentials, EAM, and maybe tight binding.  These basic topics are not covered in this text.  Instead, the book begins with a short introduction to DFT, and quickly goes into Green's functions, ab initio molecular dynamics, calculation of optical and magnetic properties, and other quite advanced topics in the field.   <br /> <br />The text is very advanced and includes a lot of complicated equations.  Trying to follow some of the equations I quickly discovered that variables were often used that were not defined; a major no-no.  The language itself seems written by professors to be read by other professors.  Additionally, this is a very expensive book for only 300+ pages of material.  I believe this high price is to cover the occasional color figures.  I would not purchase this book, unless you have several years of experience doing ab initio modeling, and wish to learn about the more difficult techniques out there.	2005-01-18
US	30501489	R3RNLLHSHNMF26	0313325286	267660447	Genghis Khan and Mongol Rule (Greenwood Guides to Historic Events of the Medieval World)	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Good reading	I had went to the library to find the book Genghis Khan and the Making of the Modern World, by Jack Weatherford, after hearing about it on NPR.  That book was checked out, but this one caught my eye, so I took this book instead.  I enjoyed this book; it is fairly easy college-level reading.  The book covers the life of Genghis Khan and his family, from one generation before him to 4 generations after him.  In this time, the Mongols conquered the Eurasian landmass from Korea to the Baltic states.  The book highlights the major battles of course, and also goes in depth to show how Mongol rule affected the local cultures and peoples, and vice versa.   <br /> <br />The book includes reprints of primary documents (translated to English of course), provides a short biography of all the major Mongols, and is replete with references to other works.  The book also does a good job in explaining how the same person / tribe / or place could go by different names, or several different spellings of the same name. <br /> <br />In all, I recommend this book.	2005-01-13
US	30501489	R118E8TD8QL9Q2	9810224931	284792334	Electric-Dipole Polarizabilities Of Atoms, Molecules, And Clusters	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Comprehensive, boring, but needed reading for all scientists	Many phenomena that humans experience in everyday life are due to the polarization of atoms and aggregates of atoms.  Some examples include dust sticking to surfaces, being able to look thru a window but not thru a wall, rainbows, static electricity, etc...  These consequences of polarization are usually explained in separate texts on optics, surface science, electromagnetism, etc...  This book explains all of these effects in one dedicated, mathematical and visual treatment of polarization.  The science of polarization is extensively explained, both time dependent and independent.  Ways to measure polarization, and methods of modeling it are also covered.  The book also highlights areas in which knowledge is scarce and more research could be done.  The text is tight, with short summaries and relevant equations in each section.  The mathematics are quite advanced, requiring knowledge of linear algebra, PDE, and transforms to fully grasp it.   <br /> <br />Overall, this book is a good reference, but a bare-bones textbook which would probably require a lot of supplemental material.	2005-01-08
US	30501489	R2BRJAEXMU11HN	1575001861	627611236	One Foot On the Floor	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Better than television	The title of this book refers to the standard censors used in the 1950's and 1960's to determine whether a love scene in a TV show counted as sex or not.  If one foot of either lover was still on the floor, it didn't count as sex.  What about sex standing up you might ask?  I guess TV producers back then hadn't caught up with the sexual revolution yet.  Oh well.   <br /> <br />Anyways, the book is a great read, and took me one day to finish.  It covers the history of sex on American television, from Elvis to Friends, in chronological fashion, with about 1 chapter per decade starting from the black & white days of the 1940s and prior.  There are also timely asides on how sex was being portrayed in TV in other countries; such as Germany, England, and Japan.   <br /> <br />The focus was good; a subject such as this can easily devolve into gossip on what the actors/actresses were doing off-camera, but this is avoided here.  Instead, there is thoughtful discussion on how sex in TV was related to ratings, TV set sales, advertising, popular music, politics, and the general society at large.   <br /> <br />This book was published in 2000, thereby leaving out some more notable recent events: Jackson's wardrobe malfunction and Madonna - Britney Spears onstage kiss.  But all in all, it was worth the time to read it.  I highly recommend it especially to the recent immigrants to America who are initially shocked at American TV.	2005-01-03
US	30501489	R2O0UHJRDMEJQD	3540030832	97243872	A Primer in Density Functional Theory (Lecture Notes in Physics) (v. 620)	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Mostly theory, few applications	Springer - Verlag has lately been publishing books related to materials simulation.  One of their recent products is this short book on density functional theory, today's workhorse of atomic-scale solid-state simulations.      For someone who wants to know DFT, its origins, principles, and future, this is probably the best, and most condensed work currently out.  There is minimal discussion of other techniques, and one chapter (the last) on implementing a DFT code.  Everything is else is pure theory, but kept at an understandable level.  The major publications in the field are cited and their importance to DFT's development are explained.  The math is extensive, and the prospective reader should have taken at least one quantum course before reading this book.      Separate chapters are devoted to the three areas of DFT that are presently rarely seen in commercial codes: relativistic DFT, time-dependent DFT, and orbital-dependent functionals.  This serves to show the reader probable advances in the field.    Unlike Martin's work on Electronic Structure, or Finnis' work on Interatomic Forces, this book concerns itself with DFT and its implementation, and not the use of DFT to obtain any properties.  I would suggest buying this book as a complement to the two previously mentioned.	2005-01-03
US	30501489	R39PUXVRITB3PS	0786713518	210257276	Churchill's Folly: How Winston Churchill Created Modern Iraq	Books	4	36	46	N	N	H. Dean should buy one of these for each Gulf War veteran	This book gives a fair explanation of how the country of Iraq came to be.  Specifically, the Middle East was under the control of France and England in 1910.  Over the next 50 years, both masters would haphazardly carve up their desert empires into nations with very little consideration as to what the locals wanted.  A primary example is Iraq's formation by Winston Churchill, who like Donald Rumsfeld now, probably did not put as much time and care into it as required.  The formation of Iraq was made partly out of financial reasons (England not wanting to maintain a large presence there) partly out of strategic reasons (buffer regions against not-so-friendly neighbors in the Middle East) and partly out of political reasons (devolution of the colonies was becoming a serious political issue in England).  The author addresses all of these issues and their effects on Churchill.    <br /> <br />For those who want a solid introduction to modern Iraq's formation, this is the best book to read.  I would not suggest this book for learning about Iraq in general.  Unlike other books on this subject, there is minimal discussion of Iraq after the British left, and even less on Iraq's history before English colonization.	2005-01-01
US	30501489	R1J2SY65LAG3X6	0873394615	562226898	Iridium: Proceedings of the International Symposium : Held During the 2000 Tms Annual Meeting in Nashville, Tennessee, March 12-16, 2000	Books	2	0	0	N	N	Lacking in basic information	This book is a collection of articles that cover the processing, properties, applications, microstructure, and compounds of iridium.  Unfortunately, it lacks a summary chapter that gives a comprehensive listing of its properties.  Specifically, there should be one chapter listing known values of its electrical, magnetic, optical, and mechanical properties.  This book should have included a chapter that summarized the known compounds of this element, be they ceramics, intermetallics, or coordination complexes.  As such, I would not recommend purchasing this book.	2004-12-27
US	30501489	R3SGQR0IYK2D2L	0824702395	589620137	Adhesion Promotion Techniques: Technological Applications (Materials Engineering)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Fair coverage of a broad subject	The adhesion between different materials is something people rarely consider when they think of science or engineering, yet few subjects are more important to practicioners in so many fields such as biology, materials science, chemistry, construction, medicine, etc...   This book takes a big stab at trying to describe the studies of adhesion between different classes of materials such as polymers, metals, ceramics, and even biological organisms.  The book also includes a chapter on the modeling of adhesion at the atomic scale.  As such, it is worth reading... but the problems arise in that each chapter is written by a different author(s) and one clearly notices the biasness of each author towards the research they do.  Each of the different topics end up focusing on a few test cases.  For example, the section on metal - ceramic adhesion deals with really one ceramic, alumina, even though many metal - ceramic couples are being studied quite extensively.   Because of this, I would not recommend this book as an introduction to the field.  It does make a good reference for those who work with adhesion.	2004-11-15
US	30501489	R1LOT3Q2NZI7UB	0873393899	956853742	Hard Coatings Based on Borides, Carbides and Nitrides: Synthesis, Characterization and Application	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Solid textbook on a growing subject	Advances in deposition technology has facilitated the increasing use of hard ceramic coatings based on borides, carbides, and nitrides.  This trend has been accompanied by an increasing literature on the subject.  This book is an attempt to synthesise some of this literature together into a standard book by taking articles authored by different groups, and collating them into the appropriate sections.  Each individual article is useful and the level of the text is appropriate for even undergraduate engineering students.  But the text as a whole does not flow well, and there is too much emphasis on nitrides, specifically boron nitride.  A better balance could have and should have been achieved, especially given the amount of literature on the various carbides such as SiC, TiC, WC, FeC, etc...   <br /> <br />	2004-11-09
US	30501489	RKRF0TF353KT8	1402071930	494247088	Chemical-Mechanical Polishing of Low Dielectric Constant Polymers and Organosilicate Glasses: Fundamental Mechanisms and Application to IC Interconnect Technology	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Good textbook on the subject	This book gives a solid, easy to read introduction to CMP and all the different factors associated with it.  The text is accessible to any undergraduate in engineering, yet contains a lot of information that makes it handy as a reference.	2004-11-07
US	30501489	R3HEG953WL3SP5	157498148X	778324619	Ceramic Armor Materials by Design (Ceramic Transactions, Vol. 134)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Interesting read	When on thinks of literature on military technology, pictures of jet foils, nucleared powered subs, and ultra-fast tanks usually come to mind.  But one of the oldest and most important technologies in the martial arts is armor and protection against projectiles.  This book is a comprehensive treatise on the latest materials used in armor and protection: ceramics.  The design, development, testing, and use of various ceramic materials used in armor protection is explained here.  The materials focus is on alumina, silicon carbide, boron nitride, silicon nitride, and boron carbide.  The book is divided into many small chapters, with each chapter emphasizing the properties/applications of a specific material.  Each chapter is chock full of references, and the entire text is replete with figures, tables, charts, with some in color!	2004-11-01
US	30501489	R3FQNGLCEOAVG2	1558992863	95082670	Mechanical Behavior of Diamond and other Forms of Carbon: Volume 383 (MRS Proceedings)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Diamonds are forever	The different phases of carbon, such as graphite and diamond, with their unique and often contrasting properties, has continuously intrigued scientists and engineers throughout the last century.  This fascination and interest is often manifested in the form of conferences dedicated to the element.  This book is the proceedings from one such conference that took place in 1995.  The text itself is quite easy to read, as its focus is on mechanical properties; hence little mention of quantum mechanics and band structure.  I read through it to glean for useful data and references for my Ph.D. thesis.	2004-11-01
US	30501489	R3G3NYQHPS5XKX	0387553169	958048716	Corrosion of High-Performance Ceramics	Books	3	0	0	N	N	A needed work in an important field	In many engineering applications, the usefulness of metal alloys has been maximized, and the search is on for alternate materials.  A growing option is ceramics.  This growing use of ceramic materials requires a growing knowledge of their behavior under many conditions.  One of this is corrosion.  The knowledge of the corrosion and oxidation of ceramics is especially important given the fact that ceramics are often used where metal alloys cannot be used: high temperature applications where all sorts of chemical activation barriers are surpassed.  This book, though old, provides a useful introduction to the corrosion of commonly used ceramics such as alumina, silica, silicon carbide, silicon nitride, boron nitride, and aluminum nitride.	2004-11-01
US	30501489	RYJ104K4RWEJD	0521575885	781823656	Computational Physics	Books	3	18	19	N	N	Good book for the price	This book was assigned in a class I took on the computer modeling of materials.  The text itself was slightly above my understanding; but thats fine, I just was not prepared for it.  The problem is that there are many exercises that require the reader to download software from the author's web site, and use it to perform calculations.  Many times the software did not work as intended, and so the professor had to spend time correcting the code, or writing his own version.  And of course there were the usual problems of installing the code properly, compiling it, and executing it.  This idea would have worked much better if the necessary code was put onto a CD-ROM that came packaged with the book.  For the software problems I dock one star out of five.    The introduction states that this text is intended for graduate students in physics, chemistry, materials science, or electrical engineering, and who have taken classes in numerical analysis.  I think a more appropriate wording is that this text is for someone versed in all of these listed fields.  There is extensive use of thermodynamics, symmetry and crystal structure, linear algebra, statistical mechanics, quantum mechanics, etc...   This book should not be used as an introductory guide to computational physics or related fields.  The necessary prerequisite knowledge is quite extensive.      The intro should specify at least 2 college classes in computer programming as a prerequisite for this book.  The programming assignments included at the end of each chapter are quite challenging, and should not be attempted by someone without previous experience in writing mathematical codes.  This here lies another problem with the approach taken by this book.  Most science and engineering majors will take 1-2 courses in programming as part of their university education, but these classes often emphasize business applications such as reading / writing to a text file, creating and using databases, formatting of screen output,linked lists, etc...  These skills are not very useful in writing a code to do computations.   For the latter, needed skills include parsing data, recognizing patterns, using built-in functions, importing and using algorithms from online libraries. utilizing large matrices and vectors, etc...      What the author should have done for each computational homework problem is to write out the solution (code) himself, add in the documentation, and then removed the code while leaving the documentation intact.  The student can then use the documentation to craft his/her own solution.    For the difficulty of the computing problems, and of the text in general, I dock another star.    Therefore, I rate this book 3 out of 5 stars.	2004-09-22
US	30501489	R3D7FZ1NZI4ADP	1402076967	345184614	Advanced Thermally Assisted Surface Engineering Processes	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Wait for the second edition	This book explores the topics of fabrication and properties of engineered surfaces.  The emphasis is on mechanical properties at the macro scale of surfaces.  There is little on atomic structure, surface reactivity, and electronic properties.  Hence, this book is unique; a surface science book devoid of mention of catalysis, work function, surface plasmons, relaxations and reconstructions, etc...      The book itself is very easy to read, and is appropriate for both students and practicioners in mechanical, aerospace, chemical and materials engineering.  There is minimal math and derivations, and a lot of figures and charts.  All necessary concepts are explained in the text, with little need to obtain supplemental reading material.    There are several negatives about this book.  First is the exceedingly high price for what is actually not that big a book.  The suggested price of ~$150 is on par with many ASM Handbooks, which usually have 2-3 times the amount of information as this work.  Second, there is very little discussion on analytical techniques for surfaces.  Third, the grammar, spelling, and punctuation could be dramatically improved.  An observant reader will catch at least one typo per page of text.  Last, this book is limited by the absence of practice or example problems.  As such, it reads more like a compendium of review articles than as a textbook in the field.    In all, I would recommend reading it, though not buying it at the full price.  I also hope the author puts out a 2nd revised copy that cleans up the grammar and English mistakes.	2004-09-04
US	30501489	R1C7O7WAZUUO5V	0140093265	517769659	Move Your Shadow: South Africa, Black and White	Books	2	6	14	N	N	Did not deserve the Pulitzer Prize	I like reading works by Nobel Prize winning authors, and works that won the Pulitzer Prise.  They usually are very good.  But this one was a disappointment.  The aim of this book was to portray life in South Africa under apartheid, for both blacks and whites, rural and urban.  It accomplishes this, but after ~350 pages of extremely dense and boring text.  I had read other books on South Africa and apartheid prior to reading this one, and found this to be the most boring.  The text is incredibly long-winded, and dry at times.  This is probably why the book is out of print.  There are too many instances when the author interjects the text with his own reflections and opinions.      I would not recommend this book to someone who has no prior knowledge of apartheid.  The book's method of explaining the institution is quite roundabout.  I also would not recommend this book to someone who already knows about South Africa apartheid, and wants to know more.  The book is more like an extended diary of a journalist in the land than a formal treatise or history text.	2004-07-12
US	30501489	R1LLPJZJP6I58F	0412412705	889882507	Materials Interfaces: Atomic-level Structure and Properties	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Thorough study of materials interfaces	All the different topics are covered here: interfaces between different classes of materials, defects at interfaces, adhesion/cohesion, electronic structure, segregation and diffusion, grain boundaries, etc.  This book is complete in its treatment.  The problem is that each chapter is written by a different set of authors.  As such, each chapter emphasizes specific topics and examples within that field.  There is little flow from one chapter to another.<br />The chapters are organized in a fashion such that they should be read in order.  This is one of the books that could be volunteered as a general textbook on materials interfaces, if a 2nd edition was produced whereby one author or group of authors streamlined the text, made all the symbols consistent, and updated the examples with more recent and reliable data.<br />The book is somewhat dated by now (2004), especially in a field where both theoretical and experimental research is progressing quickly.  As such, it is not worth buying, especially at the cost of $400+.	2004-07-12
US	30501489	R2G52W4UC2C3EJ	0521782856	957893558	Electronic Structure: Basic Theory and Practical Methods (Vol 1)	Books	5	39	40	N	N	Outstanding	This book was recommended to me to help me in my research, and has turned out to be one of the best recommendations I have ever received.  This is a great book; by far the best I have come across on the topic of computing the properties of condensed phase materials by quantum mechanical simulations. Here are the reasons why.<br />1. The chapters are well laid out and one chapter flows neatly to the next.  <br />2. The math is kept to a minimum; the author makes a point of communicating important principles and ideas in concise sentences without resorting to derivations.  This is ideal for engineers like me; who by training do not know that much math as compared to physicists who specialize in the solid state.<br />3.  Important ideas are clarified up front.  Many texts will lead the reader through long and windy paths of proofs and logic before arriving at the conclusion; thereby losing their reader in the process.  Not here; important points are stated clearly at the beginning and at the end of each section.<br />4.  Compare, contrast, and context.  There are many ideas, models, approximations, and theorems that have been developed in the past century related to electronic structure.  Many of these are closely related to each other in their inspiration, derivation, practice, and/or applications.  This book makes the connections between the different concepts.  For a non-expert reading through the electronic structure literature, terms like APW, OPW, PAW, LAPW, LMTO, etc... can be quite confusing if not placed within an overriding context.  This book provides that context.   <br />5.  Good use of appendices.  Electronic structure is a lot like politics; most practicioners in either field did not receive formal educations in the subject, but instead got into it under the apprenticeship of other people.  This is reflected by a lot of literature by those who succeeded in the field; most of it good in showing of the authors' achievements, but generally useless in preparing the next generation of practicioners.  For electronic structure, this is manifested by the many books that require prior knowledge of quantum, thermo, crystallography, mat sci, etc..  In effect, these books were written by experts to be read by other experts.  Not this book.  Basic ideas are kept in the text; and specific proofs and derivations are kept in the appendices.  The result is a text that is much easier to read than most others.<br />6. The book is concept driven; not application driven.  Most texts in materials simulations are actually a compilation of chapters written independently by multiple authors.  Each chapter might be given a general title; but the text will be bias towards the research of its authors.  For example, a chapter on surface calculations might focus entirely on adsorption, or relaxation/reconstruction, or optical properties; but surely not touching all these subjects.  This book does not do this; each chapter is driven by basic concepts, and one concept leads to the next.<br />In all, this is a great textbook and a handy reference book.  I highly recommend it.	2004-07-06
US	30501489	R2KA5X8UB3CDXH	1591021367	254820497	Cremation in America	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Funny, entertaining, and enlightening at the same time	I read this book out of personal interest.  My fiance and I had discussed what to do when either of us dies.  We both agreed on cremation, so I naturally wanted to learn more about it.  I am glad I picked up this book.  For a non-fiction book, it is very funny and entertaining.  It provides a good history of cremation within Western Society.  It also provides a lot of &quot;case studies&quot; that highlight the ups and downs of this progress.  The chapters flow tightly from one to another; and the text is easy enough for both adults and teenagers.  There are also several chapters that focus on recent events; such as the Ted Williams fiasco, the crematorium scandals in Georgia and California, and of course JFK Jr.  I believe every person who intends to get cremated should read this book.	2004-06-30
US	30501489	R1M622YGMEOK5X	3540639616	327713286	Computational Materials Science: From Ab Initio to Monte Carlo Methods (Springer Series in Solid-State Sciences)	Books	3	1	1	N	Y	Up to date but not much better than other texts	I read this book to learn more about my field of study; computational materials science.  I found it thorough; it covered all the major aspects for modelling of condensed phases at the atomic scale: Monte Carlo, Moleculary Dynamics, statistical thermo, and ab initio methods.  <br />The strong point of this book compared to others on the same subject is that the amount of space devoted to the various subjects closely corresponds to the amount of work done in those subjects.  Therefore, a lot of space is spent on empirical and semi-empirical methods.  <br />Density functional theory, which is the workhorse of today's high-end simulations, gets shorted here.  Only a couple of pages are spent on it.  This contrasts strongly with other books on the same subject, like the books by Raabe, or Catlow, or Finnis, where DFT gets at least a whole chapter to itself.<br />Likewise, there is not much on electronic structure.  There are a fair number of examples in this book, but few are simple enough for the first-timer to follow.  The examples tend to show of the abilities of simulations; and not the nuts and bolts of how to do them.<br />As such, this book is great for an introductory course on computer simulations of materials; assuming the reader has a background in materials science.  It is not a good book for a course on DFT, computational quantum mechanics, or solid state calculations.	2004-06-27
US	30501489	RFZAWAML4YFXC	0306458349	296226531	Electronic Density Functional Theory: Recent Progress and New Directions (Contributions to Global Historical)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	well written	This text covers a broad range of topics in the current forefront of research related to DFT.  These include van der Waals forces, polarization, calculations for excited states, and non-local corrections.	2004-06-26
US	30501489	R1XZE4CTLDB5ZX	0198509774	456940443	Interatomic Forces in Condensed Matter (Oxford Series on Materials Modelling)	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Great content but could be written in a simpler manner	I read this book as preparation for my Ph.D. comprehensive exams.  Specifically, I wanted to improve my understanding of materials modelling and density functional theory.  This book did accomplish this.  It provides a very comprehensive study of how interatomic forces are calculated in solids.  Density functional theory, tight binding, empirical potentials, linear response theory, phonon calculation, and elastic constants were all here.  <br />The focus was tight; with minimal straying into related topics such as electronic structure, Monte Carlo, or modelling of gases or liquids.  As such, this book is great for materials engineers and scientists, but is useless for chemists and probably most physicists.  <br />The book leans towards the theoretical side; minimal discussion of how the different equations would be implemented into code.  Hence don't use this book as a guide to writing a simulation software.  But do use it as a guide to understanding how to use a simulation software to obtain results.  Suprisingly, the text does not require a lot of prior knowledge in thermodynamics, crystallography, quantum, or solid state; thereby making it more readable for people from a wide range of technical backgrounds.  <br />I recommend this as a textbook for a course on atomistic scale modeling of solids, with one reservation.  It is short, well organized, and since it is written by one author, the text flows much better than many other textbooks in materials modelling which are usually written by a team of authors.  But it is not written in the simplest manner possible.  Many of the concepts are explained in purely mathematical terms; i.e. derivations and proofs.  This is great for the mathematically inclined but death to everyone else.  Instead, many of the concepts should have been accompanied by figures and diagrams to help the reader visualize what is going on.  This is especially true in the chapter on elastic constants.  The text delved right into matrix math, whenit should have used figures showing how crystal cells of different lattice types can be deformed along different crystallographic directions.	2004-06-21
US	30501489	R27CZXHLZPG91G	0826415407	275167905	Superman on the Couch: What Superheroes Really Tell Us about Ourselves and Our Society	Books	3	24	25	N	N	interesting light reading	I am a fan of comic book superheroes; I try to see all the major Hollywood movies on superheroes like X-Men, Batman, Superman, etc...  I am also a fan of the Sunday comics.  But I have never read a comic book.  So I picked this book up last month thinking it would be a good way to learn about comic book lore and history.  This book accomplishes that.  It covers the origins (and conclusions) of all the major comic book heroes.  It also goes a little into the history of the authors / creators / publishers of these comic books.  <br />The pace is quick, the book is short, and most teenagers should be able to read the whole book in a weekend.  But as a piece of literary criticism, it is okay.  This book to the comic book genre is like having one Cliff Notes book for all of Shakespeare; you sacrifice depth for breadth.  Overarching themes are emphasized over storylines of the individual comic book heroes.  There are a lot of interesting facts though; such as Harry Potter being an orphan, just like Batman, Superman, and the Hulk.  In all, this book is worth reading if you have the time to spare.  I definitely would recommend it as reading material for a college class on say 20th century American culture, or Mass Media / Entertainment.	2004-06-21
US	30501489	R1Y103D11U6LG3	3540639373	307928150	Density Functionals: Theory and Applications: Proceedings of the Tenth Chris Engelbrecht Summer School in Theoretical Physics Held at Meerensee, near ... 1929 January 1997 (Lecture Notes in Physics)	Books	2	0	0	N	N	OK guide to DFT	I read this book to help me study for my Ph.D. comprehensive exams.  It is slightly outdated for this field (published in 1997), and I would not recommend someone to read this book.  The topics in it are covered in more detail in other texts.  As a proceedings of a summer school in theoretical physics, the level of math and physics is probably beyond most non-physics majors.  This book is not suitable for someone who is learning DFT, which I find surprising since this book is from a summer school.  This book is more suitable for experienced hands; people who have several years of DFT simulations under their belt.	2004-06-21
US	30501489	RP6I3J0NM3QDU	0387964789	302064502	Composite Materials: Science and Engineering (Materials Research and Engineering)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Great textbook	I read this book as a textbook for a class I took on Composite Materials.  This is one of the best textbooks I have read and is a great introductory text to Composites.  It is small for a textbook, but covers all the major topics in Composites, thereby making it a great textbook for a one-semester class.  It is easy to understand and is suitable for both undergraduates and graduate students.  The book contains a lot of figures, graphs, and charts that make the subject matter easy to understand.	2004-05-05
US	30501489	RXBBJEDXY2AQW	1402072627	670105670	Ceramic Matrix Composites: Second Edition	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Good, easy to read textbooks	I read this book as a supplemental textbook for a class I took on composite materials.  This is a very good book.  It is very easy to read.  The text is at a level any engineer can understand, yet there is enough data for practicing composite engineers.  There is a wealth of data, and full lists of complete references at the end of every chapter.  There are many pictures and diagrams, and they are very easy to interpret and understand.  I highly recommend this book.	2004-05-05
US	30501489	R2NMUS4A2INHS0	0865311382	956891250	Thailand: Buddhist Kingdom as Modern Nation-State	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Good text on Thailand	I read this book for a class I took in college on Western influence in non-Western countries.  I chose Thailand because it is the only nation in east Asia that has never been conquered by a European nation.  I chose this book to read about Thailand because it gives a concise but comprehensive look at Thailand's history starting from aboriginal times to the modern day; post Cold War.  The book also addresses the role Buddhism has played in this country's history.  This book is easy to read, and worth reading.  I learned many things from it, including the fact that the percentage of Thai women engaged in prostitution is less than most of its neighbors.  It just happens that it is legal in Thailand, hence the international reknown.	2004-03-16
US	30501489	R2KDNFKWBGQZL8	0080421466	699562059	Wettability at High Temperatures, Volume 3 (Pergamon Materials Series)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Okay book for a niche subject	Wetting of materials at elevated temperatures is a niche subject that most engineers and scientists do not encounter.  As such there is a dearth of appropriate texts.  This text attempts to cover the subject with a mix of science, theory, and applications, with a handy list of references.  It is a decent text; easy enough to read for the undergraduate engineering student, yet covers all the related topics.  <br />However, I would not recommend purchasing it for three reasons.  First is its high price.  Second, this text is getting dated in a subject that is continually advancing. Third there is no almost correlation or comparison between experimental methods/results and simulation/modeling.	2004-02-14
US	30501489	R1XYGFC6NH2XMC	3527295410	650294533	Computational Materials Science: The Simulation of Materials Microstructures and Properties	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Handy textbook	This book is one of the few texts dedicated solely to computational materials sciece; exclusive of topics in computational chemistry/physics (spectroscopy, band structure, brillouin zone scattering, diffraction, etc...).  As such, their is only a brief coverage of quantum mechanics and related topics such as density functional theory, quantum Monte Carlo, Green's functions, etc... This is why I gave it four stars instead of five.  With this exception, the book does a great job of covering simulations across all time/spatial scales from dislocation dynamics, finite element modeling, cellular automata, etc...  <br />This is a perfect textbook for a senior level/graduate computational materials science classes that exclude quantum mechanics.  The amount of math is enough for readers to know the important equations; but there are no tedious derivations.  <br />The book also lists important applications and publications for each type of modeling.  I would not purchase this book though because it is authored in 1998, which is ancient history compared to when I am writing this review (2004)with respect to the field of computational materials science.	2004-02-04
US	30501489	R3HW2KP7WQ931K	0471330604	805486129	Surfaces, Interfaces, and Colloids: Principles and Applications, 2nd Edition	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Great introductory text	My Ph.D. research involves surface and interface science, so I read a lot of texts in this topic area.  This book is one of the best introductory texts I have seen to surface and interface science.  It is geared towards the undergraduate student in science and engineering who has little knowledge of quantum, solid state, or thermodynamics.  The text flows cleanly with lots of simple pictures and diagrams to illustrate ideas.  Important equations are included, but the amount of math is kept to a minimum.  All the key ideas in surface science are mentioned, such as adhesion, tribology, wetting, oxidation, catalysis, etc.  There is adequate mention of applications, technologies, and how they are related together.  The book is organized such that each chapter covers a specific topic, and they can be read independently of each other, making it a great reference.  I highly recommend this book to anyone who wants to know more about surface or interface science.	2004-01-15
US	30501489	RAWPLFUJX9H53	0471999032	509248169	Chemical Modeling: From Atoms to Liquids	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Adequate attempt at introducing modeling	The stated goal of this book is to introduce the science of chemical modeling to newcomers.  It assumes the reader has little knowledge of crystallography, thermodynamics, quantum mechanics, or computer programming; the four fields upon which chemical modeling is built upon.  As such, the book does an adequate job.  The math is adequate and well-documented.  There is even coverage of the numerous techniques used in chemical modeling.  And there are relevant examples of how modeling is applied.      The book could be written better though.  The text is written in first-person, and would flow better written in third-person.  The figures and tables/charts are good.  There are adequate references to other sources that expand upon what is covered in the text.  All in all, this is a good text to use in undergraduate chemistry / materials science courses to introduce students to atomistic scale modeling.	2004-01-02
US	30501489	RYVW6PWI9NRTA	1402009062	642235769	Applying Molecular and Materials Modeling	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Comprehensive review of the atomistic simulations field	This book attempts to do two things.<br />1. Introduce the reader to the science, techniques and applications of atomistic simulations of crystalline and molecular systems.<br />2. Compare and contrast the quantity and quality of atomistic simulations in different geographies (US, Japan and Europe primarily).  <br />This work succeeds on both counts.  There is enough scientific background on the simulation techniques for people in related fields (chemistry, physics, materials science) to understand.    <br />Overall, the text is easy to read, there are many references, all data that can be put into tables/charts has been, and the math is kept to a minimum.  There is good coverage of techniques, algorithms, and software codes used in simulations.  This book also provides a needed history of atomistic simulations; citing related Nobel Prizes, scientific breakthroughs, major software developments, and important test cases.  <br />This book should not be used as an introduction to doing atomistic modeling though.  It is best used as a reference text by people who either do atomistic simulations for a living, or have to rely on its results.	2004-01-02
US	30501489	R1IJ01Y1EESTCS	0132628171	891872313	Mechanical Behavior of Materials	Books	5	5	7	N	N	One of the best textbooks available	I read this book in preparation for my Ph.D. Qualifying Examinations in Materials Science Engineering.  It is one of the best textbooks I have ever read, and the only one I have read from cover to cover.  The material is covered at an even pace, with lots of equations and figures to help the text.  The page layout is great with text, figures, and other data spaced evenly throughout.  The book is easy enough for undergraduate students to read, yet it contains enough data for practicing engineers to use as a reference.	2003-08-22
US	30501489	R39AP4O6UAIYPG	0533134722	66962242	Belles of Shangri-La, The	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Funny and entertaining	This short read is highly entertaining though with a high degree of raunchiness.  It shows the side of military life not shown on the news.  In short, the author was an American World War 2 soldier stationed in the jungles of Liberia. His 1000-man contingent was assigned with defending the Firestone Rubber plantations from Nazi attack.  The soldiers broke up the monotony of jungle life with run-ins with local wildlife and villagers, especially the local women.  The ensuing tales of prostitution, debauchery, nonsense, and high jinx make this one of the more entertaining theatres of WWII.  I highly recommend this book for light reading.	2003-08-21
US	30501489	R1GT0SZF61UUM	3540413286	62699151	Disordered Materials	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Rigorous but not complete	I am a materials science engineer and read this book to learn about diamond-like carbon, which is a disordered material.  This book covers a lot of topics, and ues a fair deal of equations and figures.  It adequately covers most topics about disordered materials, though I could not find much information about diamond-like carbon.  I would not recommend this book as an introductory text on the subject, but it is good for a reference.   The text assumes the reader has fairly good knowledge of geometry, math, and solid state science, along with materials science.  Much of the text could be rewritten to make it more readable, without reducing content.	2003-08-20
US	30501489	R2WR79S67ZKR3U	019850375X	200431426	Chemistry of Atmospheres: An Introduction to the Chemistry of the Atmospheres of Earth, the Planets, and their Satellites	Books	3	2	8	N	N	Solid and engaging read	I read this book as part of a class I took on environmental chemistry.  It is thorough and extensive in the subject matter it covers, and was not too difficult to read.  Alas, I find the subject matter boring before reading this book, and left with my opinions unchanged.	2003-08-18
US	30501489	RQ4DWCND2N8T5	0471830844	64908165	Friction and Wear of Materials	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Great text for learning and reference	As a student in materials science, this is one of best books I have ever read in materials science.  The text is kept to a minimum and is easy to read.  The figures are large and easy to understand, and the equations are all well explained.  Just about every topic in friction and wear is given at least a cursory glance along with listings of more focused literature.  This book should be read by all who deal with friction and wear as part of their work or education.	2003-08-18
US	30501489	R2NWS9UWMDEJSD	0333802543	616447622	Health Impacts of Globalization: Towards Global Governance	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Easy to read introductory text	As someone who has traveled around the world, I am interested in global issues, such as health care around the world.  I read this book and found it interesting and informative.  Though the title has a liberal tilt to it, the book is very impartial, and provides a lot of insight into how global forces and institutions affect the health and health care of various people around the world.  It is well referenced, and easy to read.  I recommend it.	2003-08-18
US	30501489	R9H9AB3YBE8NI	0674716086	827899970	Prophets of Regulation: Charles Francis Adams; Louis D. Brandeis; James M. Landis; Alfred E. Kahn	Books	3	4	7	N	N	Good but could be better	Government regulation of business is always a topic of controversy, but few people know anything about its origins.  This book provides a  history of the origins of government regulation in the US, by specifically focusing on four important individuals and how they shaped US regulations.  Though they are important, their influence was primarily through the executive and judicial branches of the federal government.  The book should have included a great legislator along with the four individuals it focused on.<br />The book is tedious and dry, but not difficult to read.  The topic matter is well explained with lots of references, but a lot of text could (and should) have been replaced with charts, graphs, flowcharts, and timelines.  I would not recommend this book as an introductory text to government regulations, but more for the well-read observer.	2003-08-18
US	30501489	RLQB5OFML849T	0306805367	659386850	Slavery: A World History	Books	3	17	34	N	N	Adequate introductory text	This is a good introductory text to the topic of slavery, but not great.  It is incomplete because it overemphasizes slavery in pre-industrial times, and nearly ignores slavery in the 20th century, especially in regards to prison labor.  The book does have a wide geographical reach, and touches on slavery in many parts of the world.  I suggest this book as a good introductory text to those without prior knowledge in the subject.	2003-08-06
US	30501489	R3V0KPTPUKVNJ1	0226345858	703652848	Serfdom and Social Control in Russia: Petrovskoe, a Village in Tambov	Books	3	3	7	N	N	Better than expected	Westerners have a view of the Russian Revolution as an uprising of downtrodden peasants against their rich landlords, like a replay of the French Revolution, and tend to ignore the uprisings of city workers.  This book helps to refute this view.  The Russian countryside in the 1800s was quite egalitarian, probably more so than the rural Deep South of 1800's America.  The author extensively uses primary data such as census numbers, business transactions, tax records, etc. to show that the Russian countryside was not akin to slavery, but actually a patriarchal society with lots of small landholding families.  Many of the peasants actually had little or no relation with the aristocracy, and therefore would have had little incentive to rebel against them.  The push to communism could not and did not originate in the countryside, and this book shows why.	2003-08-06
US	30501489	R2MRGTEWRS8VQ1	0801874254	792364372	Why Survive?: Being Old in America	Books	3	12	22	N	N	Good reading, though slightly out of date now	I read this book because I have never read anything in this field.  This book was published in the 1970s when conditions for elderly people were bad.  High inflation was reducing the value of the nest eggs of many.  Large lay-offs also meant that many older people could not depend on their children for financial support.  As such, this book was important in that it addressed all issues, major and minor, that elderly people have to deal with in this country.  These issues still exist, but I dare say the elderly population are the most privileged class in this country this decade.  The last 3 years have seen reduced public funding for education, as taxes have been reduced, primarily on savings, sales of securities, and property.  Programs to help the future (children) are being cut to fund tax cuts for the middle-aged and elderly portions of America.  <br />Yes health costs are going up, but if one looks at medicine over the decade, one notices that most of the advances have been in treating adult and elderly diseases like Alzheimers, cancer, Parkinson's, and heart disease.  Almost no advances are being made in treating diseases of young people.  Most importantly, inflation over the last decade has been extremely low, which is great for people living on fixed incomes.  This book is good reading, but the problems it highlights are ones that every individual has a lifetime to prepare for.	2003-07-06
US	30501489	RT618LYIEH754	0593050789	264716684	1421 - the Year China Discovered the World	Books	4	24	31	N	N	Required reading for all history buffs	This is a great book for many reasons.  First, it is a great adventure story.  The author takes the reader along the voyages of China's great treasure fleets in the 1420s as they sailed around the world.  Second, it clearly illustrates how history depends on who is around to tell it, and not on the truth.  Third, it is a great detective story.  The author shows how different clues have to be pieced together to create a coherent story.  And last, it is a perfect example of how achievements are easily forgotten or erased from memory.  The flow of the text is good; there are enough references in the text to keep it honest, but not so much as to break up the reading.  <br />The only reason I did not give this book 5 stars is that there should be more pictures and diagrams explaining the various sailing and navigation terms; like how latitude is measured via stars, how a ship sails into the wind, how distance is measured on a sailing vessel, etc...	2003-06-28
US	30501489	RHFQ1LB3Y9LPG	0674007719	582198744	The Questions of Tenure	Books	3	4	7	N	N	A must read for current and future academics	I am a doctoral student who plans to seek a job as a professor when I graduate.  As such I picked up this book to learn more about my intended career.  It is well written, easy to read, highly informative and very balanced.  It addresses the variations in tenure across the US and the world, its history, pros and cons, uses, and possible changes to it.  Tenure is one of those political hot potatoes that always remains under the media's radar, even though educational institutions across America and their funding sources are wrestling with it.  I recommend this book to anyone who intends to pursue a career in higher education or academia.	2003-06-23
US	30501489	R3O5CHMX49U5QK	0691086788	355626671	Principles of Animal Locomotion	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Unique piece of literature	This book is one of those niche books that gives a thorough comprehensive overview of a topic few people bother to think about. In this case, the various modes of how animals move are explained using words, pictures, and equations. There are many books about how birds fly, or how fish swim, or how felines run, but this book gives a good overview of all these modes of locomotion and more.  It covers the mechanics, kinetics, and thermodynamics of the different kinds of motion.  For example, one learns how the metabolism, oxygen consumption, and weight distribution changes for a horse as it accelarates from a walk to a full sprint.  I recommend this book to anyone interested in biomechanics, biology, or mechanical engineering.	2003-06-17
