US	30652561	R2UE8HVHEUJKBW	0312282990	383312801	The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier & Clay	Books	4	1	1	N	N	The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier & Clay	Josef Kavalier is a young Jewish refuge, dislocated to America thanks to the encroaching viciousness of the Nazi regime in his home country of czechoslovakia. Sammy Klayman is his cousin, a dreamer, a thinker, a boy who lives more in the world of his imagination than he does in the city of New York, his home. Kavalier meets Clay one quiet night, when the refuge arrives in New York scared, lonely and desperately missing his parents and brother, Thomas. They share a bed and form a friendship, sensing a kinship of souls that will soon reveal itself as a complex, compassionate and loving relationship that extends from their work into their personal lives. <br /> <br />While the book does chronicle the adventures of Kavalier & Clay as they struggle from being lowly workers at a novelty store, to creators of some of the most popular comic book heroes during WWII, the true hero of the novel is Josef Kavalier, Joe. We are 'inside' his head through most of the chapters, it is for him that we have the most compassion because of his immigration, his Jewish heritage - which Sammy does share, but his religious beliefs are certainly secondary - and his almost obsessive love for his lost brother Tommy, and his young love, Rosa Saks. <br /> <br />Josef is an interesting character. He studied under a magician, an escapist, for a time whilst in Europe, learning the tricks of the trade: Card tricks, picking locks, escaping. Through a number of - unfortunate - story telling contrivances, he is forced, again and again, to draw upon these skills. More positively, the first very comic character that the two create - The Escapist - is based upon the skills Josef has learned. This is a satisfying use of his background, I felt, rather than the sloppy device of yet another lock to pick or person to steal from. <br /> <br />Apart from this, though, is his love from his brother. For the better part of the novel, he is driven to succeed, purely so that he can save up enough money to get his brother out of Europe, and into the safety of America. When he is enjoying life - such as when he falls in love - he rails at himself, arguing that he should not experience fun, laughter, happiness, until Tommy is in America, and not a second before. When he does fall in love with Rosa Saks - the inspiration for Luna Moth, another famous creation of Kavalier and Clay - he is torn between his duty to his family, and the first flowerings of his love. To watch this is a fascinating experience, and possibly one of the highlights of the novel. <br /> <br />Another highlight is the way the story is told. While Josef is the focus, the narrative is able to step back from him and observe other characters in varied situations. The narrator, while never too personalised, is an omniscient, declarative chronicler. He mentions events in the future to further reinforce the current situation. He speaks of Kavalier and Clay with reverence, and when he is 'merely' discussing the actual people behind the team, he is no less respectful. As stated above, I did not feel that the language was this amazing: '...sentences so cozy they'll wrap you up and kiss you goodnight', but they were enjoyable. There is a never a sense of over achieving, or trying too hard, or anything like that. No, the prose is confident of its limits and its abilities, and works within that. Throughout the novel, I felt that Chabon was aware of what he could and could not do, and I felt confident in where he would take me and how he would get me there. This is as much a strength as the floweriest of prose, I believe. <br /> <br />Apart from Josef, there is Sammy, the other member of the great comic team. He is not in the spotlight very often, but nor would he want to be. Sammy, like the boy helpers he loves to create for his superheroes, is content as a sidekick. Another theme of the novel is him coming to terms with his homosexuality, and this is played out in a delicate enough manner right until the very end, when crudity takes over. Sammy is not a homosexual character, he is a character who happens to be a homosexual, and that, in my opinion, is the best way to handle him. Take away his sexuality - which is developed naturally, especially considering the difficulties imposed upon a young gay man in the 40s - and he is as deep and vibrant as any other. For a very long time, he is the ideas man of the two, the pusher, the confidence man, the kid who wants to be a man atop the mountain. Without Clay, Kavalier would never have extended his art into comics; he probably would have languished, sad and alone, never drawing for anyone but himself. <br /> <br />After the partnership of Kavalier & Clay crumbles, unfortunately so to does the story. We jump years, introducing new characters never fully developed, speeding through plots and ideas, dropping some and ignoring others. An interesting side story about comics as a negative medium is picked up, but then used in probably the most crude display of plot advancement I have ever seen, then dropped. Based on the quality of the rest of the novel, this was unforgiveable. The fact that it set in motion the ending was worse. <br /> <br />But, a few grave misgivings aside, this novel was very enjoyable. There is a lot of comic book history, a raft of interesting characters, and Chabon, I think, captures the way a young Jewish refuge would feel as he enters the vast world of American opportunity.	2005-02-11
US	30652561	R37O0GDQTP6SKE	0140188592	468027632	Gravity's Rainbow (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	5	32	41	N	N	Gravity's Rainbow	Gravity's Rainbow.* Those two little words are enough to make even the most hardened of readers shake. There is a dullness to the eyes upon hearing Pynchon's name, an instantaneous reverie-inducing magic word of Kabbalah among the literary aware. Yet there are a few people, scattered amongst the ley lines of the world, a few here in Australia, a few more there in America, a handful in Europe, perhaps, maybe, two or three in China, I don't know: but they exist. Some people have read the book. Some people have even - gasp - re-read. And for these, Gravity's Rainbow is the Ultimate, the Absolute, the All. <br /> <br />Happily, as of the 23rd of January, 2005, I can count myself among the tiny but growing portion of people who have completed Gravity's Rainbow not once but twice. The first read through, it was a nightmare, a mish-mash of vivid, hyper-real images, of chaotic, disastrous encounters, of haphazard, unrealistic, unbelievable absurd and comic characters and situations, of sex, of drugs, of violence, of midgets, of plastics, of Rockets. It had everything, but I couldn't grasp the novel - what was it about? What was it trying to tell me? Why - why why why - was I forced to read countless diversions into African history, metaphysical ramblings about the sun, the Grid, the Gods, excursions into Pavlovian psychology, octopus attacks, sado-masochism, rocketry, physics, witchcraft, Nazi ideology, English sweets, American limericks, Japanese Haikus? The answer wasn't obvious, nor did I discover why, once the last page was finished. The why, the when, the where, and most importantly the how of the novel were not revealed. <br /> <br />But the second read through. Ahhh, wasn't that different. Familiar with the characters who were to play larger roles in the unfolding of the 00000, I was able to focus my energies to the right places, and 'merely' enjoy the rambunctious cavortings of the rest. I knew that trying to make sense of a man swimming about in a toilet looking for a harmonica wasn't integral to the story, so I could just enjoy enjoy enjoy - let the beauty of the words and the crazy wonder of the imagery fall over me. Brilliant, amazing sentences were mine to enjoy, to savour. And I did. Slothrop, Rocketman himself, I knew was to fade, and I could be with him until the Zone absorbed his ten thousand selves. Roger Mexico was mine until Jessica said goodbye. And maybe, if I was careful, I could get a glimpse of Byron the Bulb. <br /> <br />So. What is Gravity's Rainbow about? I suppose it is about a rocket. No, a Rocket. THE Rocket. The 00000. A-and, the Rocket is fired, an arrow to the heavens, where it falls, nobody knows. Tyrone wants to know, thought he doesn't know that just yet. Pointsman wants to know. So does Teddy Bloat, Katje, Tchitcherine, Enzian, Weissman, Duane Marvey, and of course, of COURSE They want to know. They want to know everything, They do. <br /> <br />Beyond that? Imagine every little scrap of history, mathematics, science, art, literature, social criticism and psychology rolled up into a little parcel, mixed about with a liberal dose of paranoid plot (see proverb 5), and sprinkled liberally - oh so liberally, five to a page, more! - amongst a 760 page book that arguable is all about a single rocket shooting into the air and falling to the ground. <br /> <br />(If I could, I'd insert a song here, but alas, my singing capabilities are a great deal lesser than my desire. Maybe next time through the Wheel) <br /> <br />The setting, ah yes, that fickle, meandering, evasive creature. WW2, sure, London, sure, the Zone, sure. But also Africa, Mauritius, Japan, Space, underground with the Titans, in the air with the custard pies, on the sea, dancing about with those midgets a-and over there, in the Grid, can't forget the Grid! We jump about, we jump here, we jump there, back and forth, around and around, in a sentence we jump, in a paragraph we jump, mid WORD we jump. But the thread is held together by the Rocket, that simple, phallic symbol we can all identify with, that we all want. It is ours, if we let it embrace us. <br /> <br />But really, what is it about? A Rocket, we've mentioned that. A critique on the social setting after the war? No, too superficially deep, if you catch my drift. They don't like that, no They don't. A love story between Mexico and Jessica? Can't be, that'd be silly. 500 pages between scenes hardly constitutes a love affair, but wait! the main character disappears in the Zone, so what can I say? <br /> <br />You like songs? So does Pynchon. You like mathematics? So does Pynchon. You like midgets, bondage, feces, sex, physics, chemistry, plastics, magic, history, psychology, mythology, foreign languages, conspiracies, Capital Letters, puns, narrator jokes, chorus lines, reefers, the word sez, recursion, coincidence, nightmares and girls? Yeah, so does Pynchon. Funny that. Open the book, pick a page, any page, doesn't matter which, you are bound to find at least half of those. <br /> <br />Sentences are so confident, so unbelievably aware of themselves as to strike awe. Any quote would be out of context, and thus meaningless. A .... serves to connect everything, it is all connected, all. Will Rocketman save us? He can't even save himself... <br /> <br />*For the more serious minded - I haven't summarised this novel. I can't, you can't, nobody can. I can't summarise Finnegans Wake, either. The novel is a journey through the idea of what literature could be if we just let ourselves go and write what is within us. Pynchon demolishes the concept of what a novel should be, he tears the towering edifice that began with Cervantes and ended with Joyce - even if only a temporary ending - and rebuilds it in his image. The modern novel owes as much to him as it does to any of the Great Authors, this novel is an amazing, incomparable epic of...of everything. Its scope is so vast, its range so sure, its breadth so detailed that...I can't even finish this sentence. An amazing achievement. A brilliant novel. A fundamentally essential author.	2005-01-30
US	30652561	R2U1RA50QWZGGM	0385720955	850910906	The Blind Assassin: A Novel	Books	4	17	23	N	N	The Blind Assassin	The Blind Assassin opens with death, the young Laura Chase plunging off a bridge to her doom, which is ruled as an accident, but possibly a suicide. Her sister Iris discovers a collection of notebooks in her possession, notebooks that Laura had left specifically for her to find. Inside these notebooks is, among other things, a novel. Posthumously published, it creates a strong reputation for the deceased woman, critics considering it a tragedy of letters that Chase died so young. <br /> <br />From here, we wander through several chapters of Laura's novel, interspersed with excerpts from newspapers cataloguing other family member's deaths. Laura's novel concerns two young lovers, doing what young lovers do, but between that, the man - nameless for a very long time, an author of pulpy science fiction, and a clear, obvious story-link 'enigma' hook - tells the woman - also nameless - a story about the people of Zycron, a fictional planet. He outlines the customs, beliefs, habits, inserting the details she wants - zombified women, for one - and embellishing upon his own ideas. The story is much, much more interesting than the relationship between the two people, which is hardly understandable. It deals with a blind assassin and a mute young girl, the assassin sent to kill the girl, the girl sentenced to death in a grisly annual ritual to appease the many Gods of Zycron. This fantasy/science fiction blend is quite interesting, and is told through the voice of the male lover, which works to great effect. Rather than slogging through pointless side-story exposition, he and the woman banter, joke, discuss the particulars of the story, enjoying the creating as much as the creation. <br /> <br />Most of the novel is Iris' autobiography, and at the time of narration, she is an old woman. 'The temptation is to stay inside; to subside into the kind of recluse whom neighbourhood children regard with derision and a little awe; to let the hedges and the weeds grow up, to allow thedoors to rust shut, to lie on my bed in some gown-shaped garment and let my hair lengthen and spread out over the pillow and my fingernails to sprout into claws, while candle wax drips onto the carpet.' She feels helpless, tired and useless, or thoughtful and curious and, in many ways, jealous of her dead sister whose memory taints everything in her life. Far from being Iris, she is Laura's sister, a title which chaffs, even at eighty years old. She is a bitter old woman, bitter and alone, which can sometimes be annoying to read - twenty pages of anger directed at the world is quite tiresome to read - but for the most part is enjoyable, the language 'historical' in a sense, and sad. <br /> <br />Unfortunately, the next 80 pages or so are wasted on a history of Iris's family, from her grandfather <br />down. This is an interesting section, it is true, but after the intriguing opening, it feels like a robbery. Why would I care about such things when my appetite for the fictional story of Laura has been growing? Perhaps if this section was placed later, or earlier, it would have been more warmly received, but as it is, the insertion seems a mistake. <br /> <br />We are then taken through the particulars of Iris' life, and the reason for the preceding history becomes clear. Clear, but still not appreciated. It is a shame that, with such an interesting opening, we are then forced to ignore and forget about it while a hundred, two hundred pages of family history go by. Happily, this sensation leaves us two hundred or so pages in, as the 'Blind Assassin' chapters come back with great regularity. If this had been kept up for the entirety of the novel, perhaps the problem of the Chase family history would not have existed. <br /> <br />The novel is filled with trite little one-liners to keep us reading, keep us guessing. A shame, because Atwood's writing and plotting is perfectly functional without this. Why do I need to read lines like, 'Aimee's death was not my fault', or'Compared to where he might be, it's a palace'. The answer is: I don't. And yet there they are, right in the text. It's unfortunate that she felt it was necessary to insert these meaningless foreshadows. As a literary technique, foreshadowing is fantastic, and she uses it often in subtle and clever ways. But keep-me-guessing lines such as these are simply not good enough, and were probably the biggest disappointment of the novel. <br /> <br />But the writing is, for the most part, simply enjoyable to read. Who could not appreciate this: 'We pass a few more franchises - smiling chickens offering platters of their own fried body parts, a grinning Mexican wielding tacos.', or . But then there are less pleasant lines such as: Did I snore? ...I couldn't bring myself to ask. In case you're wondering, vanity never ends.' I hadn't asked; I don't care. But then a passage like this comes along: 'Why is a honeymoon called that? Lune de miel, moon of honey - as if the moon itself is not a cold and airless and barren sphere of pockmarked rock, but soft, golden, luscious - a luminous candied plum, the yellow kind, melting in the mouth and sticky as desire, so achingly sweet it makes your teeth hurt.', and Atwood is well and truly forgiven. <br /> <br />The novels moves along, chronicling Iris' life. It is unfortunate that the young Iris is presented as so vapid, so unaware so - stupid. Thankfully, the older Iris realises this, it is something for which she is quite apologetic and sad. She never fully understood the implications other people had on her life, or the lives of her sister and father. By the time she did, it was far too late. The older Iris is bitter and sad, but she never really descends into angst or insincere emotion - there are times when she chides herself for being melodramatic. This is an interesting way of presenting the story, because frankly, I had no sympathy for the young Iris - whatever happened to her was her own fault, and as the pampered, never-worked-a-day-in-her-life lazy wife of a rich man, the reasons for being 'on her side' are few - but the older Iris is very sympathetic, a sad, sorry woman who demands - and deserves - respect and caring.	2005-01-15
US	30652561	R1UFN0MB7AI7RR	0140443150	161113842	Bel-Ami (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	5	8	N	N	Bel-Ami	Georges Duroy is working as a railway clerk, earning a miserable 1,500 francs a year and 'not a sou more'. While debating between having two lunch meals before going hungry, or two dinner meals, he runs into an old friend, Forestier, who has gone from thin to healthy, poor to wealthy, and inquires as to how this could be. Forestier explains that any man can have any job, but he must have the drive and be 'pushing' enough about it: <br /> <br />'If someone mentioned the name of Cicero or Tiberius, would you know what they're talking about, roughly? <br /> <br />Roughly, yes. <br /> <br />Good, that's all anybody knows, except for a couple of dozen silly idiots who are quite incapable of doing anything about it. It's not difficult to appear bright. ...All men are stupid oafs and ignorant nincompoops.' <br /> <br />Forestier invites him along to a social gathering, urging him to be as witty and charming as possible. He notes that the young Duroy has a handsome way with the ladies, and encourages him to play on that advantage as much as possible. At first, the night is not a success, with Duroy merely drinking wine and becoming drunk, the conversation flitting from topic to topic, idea to idea, and he is left behind, unsure. But then the words turn to Algiers, a topic he is familiar with, and he begins to speak. Forestier pounces upon this, declaring that Duroy is writing an essay, and a rich older man, editor of La Vie francaise, a newspaper, commissions an article. Duroy's career in high society is born and his confidence grows, he flirts with women and dazzles older ladies with his charisma and good looks. <br /> <br />Duroy very, very quickly learns that the world he has entered is not as easy as all that. His first article is published, but the sequel is rejected day after day. His friend, Carpentier, wants little to do with him if all he is going to do is stammer and fail. People are curt and cold unless he excels, so excel he must. Slowly, he learns the tricks ofthe trade, all of the sordid little details of being a reporter. At first horrified to learn that most of the stories are made up, or embellished, or riddled with hidden advertisements, he soon puts aside that qualm, joining the ranks with an emphatic glee. <br /> <br />He tumbles into a romantic liaison with a married woman which, beginning well, soon sours. He finds himself spending far too much money, borrowing from friends and other newspaper staff, and lying and cheating. When his affair ends, instead of learning from this mistake and starting afresh, he plots ways to cuckold his boss' wife, twirling his moustache with satisfaction at this idea. This eventually succeeds, but it takes Carpentier's death to make it so. With his new marriage underway, Duroy - now styled Du Roy de Cantel - find himself over his head, his wife's ambition towards his career and ambivalence towards their amorous relations being something he is unprepared for. But, he succeeds in virtually all the areas he has defined as being of worth: His career, his marriage, his social liaisons. Within a very short space of time, Duroy has become a socialite of Paris. <br />  <br />Maupassant's writing is, for the most part, smooth and affective, although the actual word usage does not often venture into flowery passages or philosophical musings, but when it does, it is certainly worthy. An older character, walking home with Duroy one night, muses on death and time, on his life, on what it means to be alive and what it means once you are dead. While these diversions obviously cannot hold up to a full philosophical treatise, they are not supposed to, and are handled with enough grace and skill as to be thought provoking, honest, and valid. Similarly, when exercising his authorly muscles, Maupassant can write a might fine sentence. An examples of this is when describing a great fleet of ships: 'They were enormous, strange, deformed objects with excrescences and towers and rams plunging into the water as if trying to take root in the sea.' Or there is this particularly contemptuous account of an older woman's desire for him: 'Since she had hitherto been a completely honest woman, a virgin at heart, and as impervious to feeling as she was ignorant of sensuality, this prim woman, whose staid forties were like a wan autumn after a cold summer, had all at once been thrust into a sort of faded spring, full of tiny, sickly flowers and frost-bitten buds, a strange blossoming of adolescent love, a late-flowering love both passionate and naive, full of unexpected raptures, girlish squeals, embarrassing billing and cooing and outdated airs and graces that had never even been young.' <br /> <br />An interesting and not entirely agreeable decision of Maupassant's is to, very occasionally, slip into the thoughts of a periphery character. While, for almost the entirety of the narration, we are firmly lodged within the mind of Duroy, there are brief occasions, when the young man has done something to provoke a firm emotional reaction in another character, that we are able to spy, however briefly, on their desires, ideas and expectations. The problem with this is that it happens so rarely, every fifty pages or so, that the decision to include such an excursion seems quite odd. Whenever it happens, we are thrust outside the flow of the narrative, rejected from the world and mind of Duroy, to inhabit the alien considerations of a character who, by virtue of not being the main in such a character-driven novel, is hardly as interesting. However, these journeys are quite brief, a paragraph or two at most when they occur, and feel like more of a miss-step rather than a full blown mistake on the author's part. <br /> <br />The latter half of the novel sees Duroy becoming bitter at the failure of his success. That is, while he is promoted, inherits money, gains status and wealth, it never seems to be enough for him. He compares his own success to that of much wealthier, older men, andfind that he often comes up trumps. This disgruntles him, and he is consumed with jealousy, which has the unfortunate effect of making him a less sympathetic character. But, as he becomes a little older and a little wiser, he mellows, understanding that patience and intelligence will gain him the status of the men he so envies, and that not everything can come to him at once. In a series of brilliant coup's, he manages to place himself in an incredible social position, admired and loved by all - except for the toes he stepped on to get there. <br />  <br />It is quite curious to note that, for such a meteoric rise, there is never a fall. Modern novels seem to require a fall from grace, so that the character can learn from his experiences and be happy with the life they have always had, not so with Bel-Ami. Duroy rises and rises and rises, and with it, he grows as a person and a character. Some rough edges are worn smooth, other insignificant aspects of his personality become jagged and sharp, if only for a moment, before rounding out as well. He becomes an admirable, intelligent, wealthy young Parisian socialite, accepting of his status and considerate to those around him. Once his goals are achieved, he is content, and without malice towards others. And, excepting the few women whose heart's he broke, he does not have any enemies or difficulties as such. No, he is an accomplished young man, successful in his own way, and satisfied with himself. We are allowed to observe his journey from peasant to success, and it is a wonderful, interesting and thought-provoking experience.	2005-01-09
US	30652561	R2J7BD40MC3U3W	0374525285	828207438	Hunger: A Novel	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Hunger	The narrator begins the story with almost nothing to his name. He is behind in rent, has pawned most of his possessions, has virtually not furniture and clothing. He is mad at the world, at his fortune, at a snaggle-toothed old lady in a butcher's shop who passes him by. He considers that the world has rejected him, cast him down, declared him to be no good. And yet, when walking later on that same day as the encounter with the old woman, he spies an old man, who begs for money for milk, and he pawns a piece of the clothing he is wearing to help him out. <br /> <br />He does have a few possibilities, however. On occasion, he is able to earn some money writing articles for newspapers, small things, of little value, but they feed him. He has the idea of an essay, 'Crimes of Futurity', which he considers will earn him a nice sum. But then, as the day grows, he discards this idea, 'I could no longer be satisfied with writing an article about anything so simple and straight-ahead as the 'crimes of Futurity'', and decides to work on a treatise, a 'Philosophical Cognition', which would, 'give me an opportunity of crushing pitiably some of Kant's sophistries'. But, he has lost his pencil, and cannot write this opus. <br /> <br />The narrator is a man who is happy that he is unhappy. He considers that the Creator is against him, but then finds himself humming and in good spirits. He teases a poor young girl for no reason whatsoever, and is glad while recollecting the sensations he felt. He is certainly a strange character, as the following shows: 'I half rise and look down at my feet, and I experience at this moment a fantastic and singular feeling that I have never felt before--a delicate, wonderful shock through my nerves, as if sparks of cold light quivered through them--it was as if catching sight of my shoes I had met with a kind old acquaintance, or got back a part of myself that had been riven loose.' Often, he wants to give random people something, and is upset thathe cannot. He is, for the most part, a positive narrator, enjoying the sights and sounds, the flora and fauna. However, with what seems to be for no reason whatsoever, he will fly into a mental rage at something or someone, spewing out venomous thoughts - or even words and deeds, if he is worked up enough. But tis feeling passes quickly, and then, it is almost as though the narrator is uncertain as to why the person attacked would feel offended or put out. An interesting character, indeed. <br /> <br />As the story progresses, and his lack of money continues, a burning hunger - both physical and mental - grows. He becomes weak through lack of food, and this has the affect of causing his oddities to expand, become more random, intricate, strange. One night, when so hungry he can hardly stand, he checks himself in as homeless at the local police station, then spends the night worrying about a hole in the wall, 'a downright intricate and mysterious hole, which I must guard against!'. He descends into a hungry madness, sucking on woodchips for sustenance, and speaking to God: 'Yes, you should say, I have invoked God my Father! and you must set your words to the most piteous tune you have ever heard in your life. So--o! Once again! Come, that was better! But you must sigh like a horse down with the colic. So--o! that's right.' <br /> <br />The narrator's madness is certainly interesting to observe. He experience dizzying highs - such as when sitting on a bench, or deciding to cut off his buttons to sell at the pawnshop - and terrible lows, whenever he thinks about food. He dashes between exuberance and despondency, up and down like a yo-yo, his reactions all the more bizarre, absurd and exaggerated as his hunger grows. Within all this, there is sympathy for the character. He is by no means a bad man, just a victim of unfortunate circumstances. The novel begins with the narrator focusing upon describing places and sights, but as it progresses, everything becomes internalised. He talks to himself, arguing, haranguing, pleading, cajoling. His thoughts are punctuated with exclamation marks quite often, giving them an added urgency or absurdity, depending on the sentence: 'The green blanket!'. It is interesting that, even though the character is thinking wrong thoughts and performing bad deeds, he is still an exuberant, jolly fellow, and that is what makes him such a joy to read. <br /> <br />The ending is expected, but does not suffer because of this. We witness the massive fall into madness, then brief spurts of lucidity followed by further plunges. Inexplicably, a young girl falls in love with him, which allows the narrator a madness of a different sort, but only for a short time. He does not overcome his 'hunger' as such, but this is unnecessary. The hunger within him is something that is not fully sated by food, it is more of a spiritual, mental hunger that can only be assuaged by thoughts, by feelings, by writing.	2005-01-08
US	30652561	R1XEOBFA58IKI5	0140186255	12084147	The Street of Crocodiles (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	5	22	23	N	N	The Street of Crocodiles	The Street of Crocodiles is the story of a year of Schulz' childhood, an obviously fictional year, but a time that was mundane yet fantastic, commonplace and bizarre. Through his child's eyes, events, sensations, ideas and thoughts are conveyed with brilliant, dazzling imagery, vivid, almost too-bright pictures are painted with words in a way that is both surreal, magical and ordinary. <br /> <br />The novel is split into thirteen chapters, each of which focuses on a different part of the Polish city of Drogobych, or on an aspect of Schulz' home life. 'Birds', for instance, is the story of his father's obsession with the winged creatures, beginning with the importation of rare bird's eggs from Africa, Holland, Hamburg, and ending with a vast aviary in the attic, with arranged marriages between different species of birds and, finally, with his father joining the birds, perching and squawking and flapping his wings. Or, 'The Street of Crocodiles', the false namesake of the book - which was actually titled 'Cinammon Shops' in Poland - a decadent, dirty arrangement of streets and buildings where anything and anyone is a commodity for purchase and use. However, The depravity, the immorality, the cheapness of the Street of Crocodiles is so great that they fail even at being depraved, revealed to instead be a mockery of a corrupt suburb, a sham crudity, a false crime. The other stories are similarly bizarre, by turns brilliantly insightful - The Birds chapter, while suitably odd, could also quite easily be read as a man's attempt to occupy himself upon a forced retirement, and failing because he doesn't know of any other life but work - or delightfully, guiltily weird and interesting. <br /> <br />As an author, Schulz had an amazing gift for painting pictures with words. In addition to each little story having a main, plot-driven theme, they all have a secondary, emotional theme. An early chapter, describing Schulz' wandering through an abandoned part of his home which opens up into a field of flowers - yes, you read that correctly - is brilliantly depicted: the golden field of stubble shouted in the sun like a tawny cloud of locusts; in the thick rain of fire the crickets screamed; seed pods exploded softly like grasshoppers. Or there is, in a later experiment of Schulz' father gone awry, this homage to animals: Animals! the object of insatiable interest, examples of the riddle of life, created, as it were, to reveal the human being to man himself, displaying his richness and complexity in a thousand kaleidoscopic possibilities, each of them brought to some curious end, to some characteristic exuberance. The narrator's useage of adjectives, verbs and nouns - or more specifically, the selection of these words - changes as the focus of the chapter changes. While awaiting a dirty train in The Street of Crocodiles, the vocabulary changes from a mild array of purely cataloguing words to 'snake', 'squat', 'coal dust' 'heaving breathing' 'strange sad seriousness'. The 'Gale' chapter, about, unsurprisingly, a fierce gale, is an elemental delight, the words ravaging us just as the weather ravages the characters. It allows Schulz quite possibly his most brilliant line: They blinked in the light, their eyes, still full of night, spilled darkness at each flutter of the eyelids. <br /> <br />It is interesting, when reading The Street of Crocodiles, to see just how much Schulz anticipated both the magic realism of Gabriel Garcia Marquez, and the fantastic whimsy of Italo Calvino. Their style, techniques and ideas are found here, in juvenile form, intermingled with a skill that takes the breath away. Schulz' pen was unfortunately darkened much too soon, thanks to a case of petty internal politics between SS soldiers, which resulted in the Polish Jew's death, and it is our great loss.	2005-01-07
US	30652561	R3MVKU6PN9HDKC	0802134211	54225560	Fado Alexandrino (Antunes, Antonio Lobo)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Fado Alexandrino	Late one night in Lisbon, Portugal, five army men are reunited on the tenth anniversary of their battalion's return from Mozambique. Since the horror of Africa, some of the men have been promoted, some divorced, married, remarried, demoted, fired, started a business, looked after family members, buried family members. They discuss their lives over wine, tongues loosening as the alcohol flows. In a few hours, one of the men will be dead, murdered, stabbed in the back by one of the other soldiers. <br /> <br />To boil down the plot to its very essence, the above paragraph encapsulates Fado Alexandrino. But this sprawling, extravagant, difficult novel covers so much more with every one of its nearly five hundred pages. The impact of this novel is not what is said, but how it is said, the way Antunes manages to weave five very different lives together into a coherent whole, spanning more than a decade of time. <br /> <br />Antunes uses an interesting style of extremely long paragraphs, broken up by the very rare period, but littered with commas. In one paragraph - this is not rare - a character will begin thinking about something, his thoughts triggered by an off-hand comment, and his mind will wander back to five years ago, or ten, or yesterday, and the focus of the paragraph will switch to this new scene, with new characters, without changing tense, staying in the 'present', and then another character will begin thinking, and they will take over the scene, they will direct the paragraph to another place and time, they will be the focus. This happens again and again, we constantly change from early times, when the soldiers were young and inexperienced, to the moderate years, with wives and children, unhappy or not, to the 'present', the reunion, when some are old and some are older, but all are weary in their own way. Yet somehow it works. It is a testament to Antunes literary skill that we are never completely lost, that there is always a thread to hold the path, that even with rapid, unflagged changes of point-of-view character, or scene, of time, of focus, we can stay on par with the course and understand what is happening. A good example of this shifting focus: What sad pusses dead people have, the soldier thought, what soft rubbery mouths, like a sick clown's, and their hands, Captain, so quiet like that, hanging down, pale, whether it was from the vitamin pills or the ampules, I was soon able to stand on my pins and shuffle along from room to room without any help, the day after tomorrow the little man with the briefcase will dump the furniture into the street and take over the house, the day after tomorrow, the soldier thought, they're going to kill my uncle for good, Odete stopped visiting me, waving, smiling, I'm fine, he remember Olavo in the apartment in Cova da Piedade, newspaper open on his knees, staring at him a little unwillingly with furtive eyes that tried unsuccessfully to congratulate themselves, to be happy, the ferry shaking and leaping on the waves, the trip of the truck to the town, the following day, in the afternoon, he got dressed and sneaked out of the buildings while the concierge went to pay the electric bill, he walked two or three... And so on, and so on, and so on. This paragraph continues on for another page. <br /> <br />The primary reason that all this works is because of the Revolution, a turbulent time in Portugal's history, when socialism and communism threatened to take over, when violence, raping and slaughter were commonplace. The novel is split into three section, Before the Revolution, During the Revolution, and After the Revolution. Generally, when jumping around, we are able to tell what is happening because of this time, this character, this situation's proximity to the horrible events in Lisbon. Granted, although the time can change so sudden and dramatically, during the 'Before the Revolution' section, most of the jumping is contained to a time that is before the Revolution, and the same with the other two sections. It is almost as though the primary character of the novel is the Revolution itself, a great maelstrom that sucks in the five soldiers, twisting and turning their lives about. <br /> <br />Antunes has a fantastic sense of imagery, an ability to describe situations and localities unlike anyone else I have experienced. He is very organic with his descriptions, a woman's mouth is 'an orange pulp', her thighs open 'like a marine polyp', and so on. Considering that the focus of the novel is the Revolution and its terrible, deleterious effects upon the nation of Portugal and, in particular, the city of Lisbon, the themes of death and decay are primary in the writing. So that in the daytime, with the sun cruelly exposing the mends, the filth, the lack of paint, and the sores of poverty that the lights disguised, everything seemed smaller, uglier, very depressing, and desolately poor. Unfortunately, this diseased, dirty quality of the writing - so effective when portraying a nation gone to rot - is difficult to read when referencing women. There is not a single positive female character in Antune's Lisbon, they are all selfish, or vapid, or dirty, or rotting, or old, or meek, or domineering, or... the list continues. However, it can be argued - quite correctly, I believe - that these negative qualities are not inherent in women so much as a part of the perception that the soldiers carry within themselves. In Mozambique, they were accustomed to raping and prostitution - male or female - and it is easy to imagine that they would have gained a low opinion of females and sex because of this. <br /> <br />There is one misstep in this book, and it is worthy of mention. The second to last chapter is the only chapter that completely focuses in upon one character, and is the only chapter where the narrator is a woman. The chapter is reminiscent of Molly's soliloquy, as in Joyce's Ulysses, with huge run-on sentences that take up an entire paragraph, long, detailed descriptions of sex and lust, wandering thoughts and ideas, etc. The chapter is written with fantastic skill, but the problem is that it does not really fit the rest of the novel. The tone is different, the pacing is different, the style is different, and it didn't seem to serve much point. Yet, it was an enjoyable read. An interesting dilemma. <br /> <br />By the end of this dense, difficult novel, there was a sense of relief that it was over, a feeling of accomplishment. However, there was loss, because, with Fado Alexandrino, I was able to fall into a decadent, violent world so completely that getting out again was a difficulty, and this is a rarity in a novel. The effect was powerful, almost physically so while reading, and I would recommend to no person reading two Antunes' novels in a row. Beautiful, morbid, complex, difficult, structurally amazing and intricately detailed, Fado Alexandrino is well worth the effort.	2005-01-06
US	30652561	R3C15C5JQFYDL9	015600254X	488398806	The Following Story	Books	5	11	11	N	N	The Following Story	Herman Musset, a quiet, introverted teacher of Latin and Greek, and who spends all of his time reading. He writes travel guides under the name of Dr Strabo, and calls it 'a moronic activity whereby I earn my living'. In his spare time - when he is not reading - he translates Ovid's Metamorphosis, a translation he wants nobody to see because, 'Our modern languages are altogether too wordy...the traffic jam, the jumble of words, blathering chaos.' <br /> <br />He falls asleep one night in his home in Amsterdam, and awakens in Lisbon, twenty years previous. He is unsure if he is dead, or has been transported back through time, or whether he is hallucinating. Or, maybe, some other possibility that he cannot imagine. All he knows is that the room he woke up in, the room in Lisbon, is the very same place where he slept with another man's wife. <br /> <br />In waking up in this room, he remembers the actions of all those years ago and the people that were affected. Lisa d'India, a talented, beautiful student, he remembers the best. She was loved by all for her intelligence, loved by Herman for the ideal she represented. He admired her, appreciated her skill with Greek, but he did not love her in the carnal sense, the way every else seemed to. For Herman, sexual love '[has] more to do with the animal kingdom than with human beings, who concern themselves with the less tangible aspects of existence.' <br /> <br />Lisa d'India is loved, most especially, by Arend Herfst, a poet and basketball teacher. He begins a relationship with the girl, and it seems that everyone but Herman is aware of this. Arend's wife, Maria Zeinstra, begins an affair with Herman, an affair of revenge, not love or lust, and Herman is completely unaware of this fact. Happily, the plot never moves into confusing betrayals or empty, 'romantic' gestures. Instead, we follow the events through the absent-minded, bewildered eyes of Herman. His affair with Maria Zeinstra, an affair that he did not plan and didnot really want, is somewhat beyond his talents in people interaction. He does not know how to handle her, and luckily, does not have to. Herman is used merely as a piece in the strategy game that husband and wife are playing. Yet, Maria's relationship with Herman is not malicious, as far as we can tell, and is oftentimes quite gentle. <br /> <br />The clandestine cum love story plot is one that can easily be ignored, and indeed is for most of the novel. The true focus is Herman. He is an amazing character, a learned, intelligent, gentle man, who is 'as ugly as Socrates'. He quotes Ovid, Tacitus and Shakespeare in his meandering confessions, he considers this philosophy or that author, wonders about the state of art and culture, comments on everything with a wry wink to the reader. Herman is a man who enjoys words more than anything else in this world, he enjoys reading them and - while he considers his own talents to be of a poor quality, and useless when compared to the Latin and Greek greats - he loves writing down his thoughts. Through the sarcasm and the negativity towards popular culture, there is a timid yet kind man who just wants to love his books in peace. <br /> <br />An explanation for Herman's sleeping in Amsterdam and awakening in Lisbon twenty years earlier is given, but I will not reveal it. Towards the end of the novel, when Herman has relived the most vivid, alive experience of his life, when he has finished recounting an episode when the real world intrudes on his careful, closed existence of words and rhyme, he boards a ship, travelling with six other people, swapping dream-like stories of time and reality. In this section, the sardonic, witty narrator - Herman - all but disappears, replaced with a lazily beautiful chronicler of events of the mind. The transition is seamless and works very well, building up a sort of confused, dreamy tension until the last two amazing pages, and then the final, perfect sentence when the cloud of unanswered questions are blown away and we are left with a brilliant clarity and understanding.	2004-12-27
US	30652561	R3TISXD99B725S	037570387X	923633349	The Autograph Man	Books	2	3	6	N	N	The Autograph Man	Autographs.  They are little snippets of immortality, a tiny scrawl of fame that you can own for your very own self, as long as you cough up the money.  Some people, we are told, signed just about everything, Ginger Rogers being a notable example.  Greta Garbo was difficult, her signature worth hundreds of pounds.  But the gem, the prize, the jewel in the scepter, was Kitty Alexander.  And Alex-Li Tandem, the hero of the tale, has been obsessively searching her down every since the day when he was first introduced to the wonder of autographs, the day his father died.<br /><br />The novel is built around a pretty sketchy premise, but that shouldn't matter, as it is a post-modern jaunt into the wiles of humanity.  Apparently.  Unfortunately, however, Smith just doesn't seem able to come up with the goods.  All of the typical po-mo ideas are there.  Autographs are a fantastic symbol of the shallow culture of mainstream entertainment, of the willingness of so many to spend hard earned money on some ink and some paper, and this could be used as a great social commentary tool.  Admittedly, Smith tries.  But there is a forced nature to this book, as though she was, while writing, desperately searching for some grasping statement, but nothing came.  Empty sentences abound, empty sentences which are not doubt supposed to impress and surprise with wit and clarity.  'Alex watches Joey watching Kitty watching the huge flickering faces of people she presumes to be gods.', is the close to a chapter, a sentence that the author presumably considered insightful and intelligent.  But it isn't.  We know that people can be obsessed with movie stars, and we know that this is - in some ways - an escape for the mundane reality of our own lives, that we can, through this or that actor, gain a tiny piece of fame and wonder.  We know it.  It has been commented about countless times, ever since movies began.  And yet, through the novel, we have the idea of fame and the hollowness of our own lives, hammered at us with each page.<br /><br />Alex-Li, as a character, is not very sympathetic.  After the prologue, he spends the next 350 pages being drunk, feeling sorry for himself, being rude to his girlfriend and friends, and generally being the type of person you wouldn't want to know.  This is unfortunate, because Alex is present on every single page, Alex is the hero, and Alex is the person we are supposed to feel sorry for, because of his deceased father.  Perhaps if there had been a hundred pages or so of character building, where we were able to see Alex being nice, being generous, being anything at all that justified the actions of his friends during the remainder of the book.  At every turn, after every mistake, every lie, every disappointment, his friends are there, inexplicably, to help him out and pick him up.  Sure, that is what friends do, but in a novel where caring about the character is what draws the story along, this isn't good enough.  We need a rounder character, a more balanced character, a real character.  I couldn't buy into the Alex fan club, yet the novel demanded it of me to succeed.  And the ending, the great big build up to the annual Jewish mourning of his father, the ending that had been building since almost the very first page: I didn't care.  Why should I?  Alex wasn't a person I would want to spend a day with, so why do I care if he can lay a ghost to rest?  I don't, and that is the novel's biggest failure.<br /><br />There are some interesting po-mo techniques used.  There are captions, self-referential in-jokes, and the (tiresome) use of the 'International Gesture' for the various gestures and movements of the characters.  Actors names are, sometimes, written as though with a pen, as though it were an autograph.  The whole character of Adam, a Kabbalah-obsessed dope fiend, was quite interesting, and worked really well, but for the most part, these extra elements fall flat.  They take away from the novel's main thread - which was never very strong to begin with - and the whole thing falls apart.  Additionally, I didn't find Smith to be particularly funny.  The jokes were telegraphed, were obvious, or just weren't funny.  Perhaps this is a cultural issue: She is British, I am Australian.  But I doubt this, for I have enjoyed many British comedies.  I think that it is, unfortunately, simply a case of her not being a humorous author.<br /><br />Throughout this review, I have been quite negative.  There are, however, positives.  The book reads very fast.  It is casual and can be interesting in some areas - for I knew nothing about the 'Autograph business' before this novel, and now perhaps I know some more.  There are times - rare - when the novel picks up the pace and things actually happen, which is exciting as well, but for the most part everything is quite flat.<br /><br />It should be noted that a better author could have very well succeeded where Smith has failed.  A good author can turn just about any topic, any setting, any idea, into a Statement, into a song.  Joyce, for example, wrote about one day in the life of a couple of people.  Yet the sum of the parts far exceeds the whole, thanks to the genius with which he writes, and dedication to his craft.  Herman Melville wrote a story about the Pequod hunting down a whale, and it works on so many levels as to be amazing.  So what happened with Zadie Smith?  Did she, after a triumphant first novel - which I have not read - a first novel that won awards, praise, respect, did she then not know where to go with her next book?  Is this the classic sophomore slump?  I think the unfortunate answer is yes.  There are moments when Smith's writing is good - the prologue is fantastic - but for the most part, it is a messy, unnecessary waste of time.ng to begin with - and the whole thing falls apart.  Additionally, I didn't find Smith to be particularly funny.  The jokes were telegraphed, were obvious, or just weren't funny.  Perhaps this is a cultural issue: She is British, I am Australian.  But I doubt this, for I have enjoyed many British comedies.  I think that it is, unfortunately, simply a case of her not being a humorous author.    Throughout this review, I have been quite negative.  There are, however, positives.  The book reads very fast.  It is casual and can be interesting in some areas - for I knew nothing about the 'Autograph business' before this novel, and now perhaps I know some more.  There are times - rare - when the novel picks up the pace and things actually happen, which is exciting as well, but for the most part everything is quite flat.      It should be noted that a better author could have very well succeeded where Smith has failed.  A good author can turn just about any topic, any setting, any idea, into a Statement, into a song.  Joyce, for example, wrote about one day in the life of a couple of people.  Yet the sum of the parts far exceeds the whole, thanks to the genius with which he writes, and dedication to his craft.  Herman Melville wrote a story about the Pequod hunting down a whale, and it works on so many levels as to be amazing.  So what happened with Zadie Smith?  Did she, after a triumphant first novel - which I have not read - a first novel that won awards, praise, respect, did she then not know where to go with her next book?  Is this the classic sophomore slump?  I think the unfortunate answer is yes.  There are moments when Smith's writing is good - the prologue is fantastic - but for the most part, it is a messy, unnecessary waste of time.	2004-12-26
US	30652561	R3LRBCLM78VW8Q	0156904586	902708233	Too Loud a Solitude	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Too Loud a Solitude	Hant'a works at the controls of a trash compactor, pulping books, newspapers and magazines for the paper mills. Occasionally, he spots a rare or interesting book and takes it for himself, obsessively reading and re-reading his treasures. His entire house is filled with books, 'the only space free is a path to the window and stove.' <br /> <br />He has so many books, in fact, that he fears he will either die by being crushed - thanks to the precariously stacked mountains of books around his bed and toilet, or he will go mad from the sheer amount of words trapped within his skull. Indeed, madness is, in its own insidious way, creeping up already. Books to him give off a magical light that reveals the thoughts and ideas locked within the pages, a light he believes he can see. Hant'a fears he is shrinking - a hasty measurement compared to a few years ago reveals that he is - but more importantly, he starts to fear fresh air and the company of others. He decided that, when he retires, he will take the trash compactor with him, to pulp books all day long, in the order he desires, pulping the books he wants to pulp. <br /> <br />While working or reading, Hant'a remembers, because remembering is all he has. Whether imagining Hegel and Lao-Tze, Schopenhauer and Jesus, or reliving an event in his own life, he remembers. Some of his stories are strange, like the armies of black and white rats he fears are warring underneath the city of Prague, or achingly sad, like his long ago love, 'a tiny Gypsy girl whose name I'd never quite known', a girl who disappears one day to die in a Nazi concentration camp, and who was afraid of kites. <br /> <br />Hearing rumours of a fancy new compactor, Hant'a visits a nearby town to investigate. He is horrified at the impersonal nature of the machine, of the carelessness of the destruction. With every bale of compressed paper that Hant'a creates, he places a much loved book of his own, a ritual of passage, a blessing for the machine. This new compactor does not allow for such quiet poetry, nor could an enterprising employee fish out a rare book caught in its great gnashing maw. He is even more shocked to learn that his bosses are considering a similar machine where he works, and that from now on he will be pulping blank pages, not lovingly crafted books. <br /> <br />There is a sadness to this book, a quiet, impotent sadness at the casual destruction of words and thoughts. Hant'a loves books for what they represent - ideas - and while he admits that he may not understand Kant, he can appreciate the beauty with which the man wrote. Virtually all of the books that Hant'a destroys are old and rare, and barring the ones that he keeps for himself or sends to libraries for safe-keeping, are destroyed with respect and care. Almost all of these books are very old, the most recent book having been published seventy years ago. It is almost as though Hant'a does not understand - or wish to understand - these new books, these mass-marketed crowd pleases. He has fallen for the beauty of the Talmud and Erasmus, and he cannot understand that another would not feel the same way. It is not hard to make of this story one big metaphor for the love and pleasure of ancient texts, it is there in the twenty or so references to Aristotle - and this in a 98 page novel. Too Loud a Solitude is sad, it is quiet, it is furiously impotent. A beautiful way to spend an hour or two, curled up in a quiet bookshelf, reading.	2004-12-21
US	30652561	R2WWJDZW9R4ILW	0192833928	178013325	Fathers and Sons (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	4	13	14	N	N	Fathers and Sons	With Fathers and Sons, Turganev shocked the Russian literati with his portrayal of Bazarov, the self-described 'nihilist'. Rejecting everything and recognising no single authority, Bazarov was a kick in the teeth of the aristocracy's grand old men, a rebellion of the son against the father. <br /> <br />Evgeny Bazarov is a young man, with ideas that he believes are the only rational, reasonable way to live and behave. He is contemptuous of love, of sentimentality, of tradition and of the aristocracy. Yet he is intelligent and capable, and believes the way he does not through a sense of hostility and outrage, but because it seems right to him. His younger friend, Arkady, considers Bazarov his 'mentor', and though the two disagree with the depth of nihilism that is necessary for accurate living, they are for the most part in agreement. <br /> <br />Bazarov's nihilism is argued amongst the characters at several different stages of the novel. Turganev chose not to make the hero an unassailable target - both the negatives and the positives of such an outlook are admirably explained, discussed and dissected. The characters are intelligent in their own field or experiences, and all are willing to add to the argument. Obviously, the title should reveal to all that it is the father's of the two main characters, Arkady and Bazarov, who have problems with the younger generations ideas, though the 'fathers' of the story do try to understand Bazarov's thinking, rather than merely stamping him down with their experience and wisdom. <br /> <br />The characters are very well realised. Pavel Petrovich is the typical Russian aristocrat, unable to fully understand the scope of change that the emancipation of the serfs will bring. Arkady is the eager student, a man who wishes to embrace the concepts of nihilism, but who finds himself drawn into sentimentality towards his family, and who falls in love. Katya, Arkady's love, is one of the shallowest characters, but even she works on a level beyond being merely a foil to Arkady's belief. Anna Sergeevna, Katya's sister, is a tremendous character, being both passionate and intelligent, and able to duel equally - and sometimes better - against Bazarov's wit. <br /> <br />A word on the translation by Richard Freeborn. For the most part it is good, and the dialogue is very good, but there are moments that feel awkward or amateurish. An odd turn of phrase or - more common - an inexplicably placed colloquial term of slang phrase lessens the impact of a scene. Bazarov referring to his 'mates' in conversation tends to decrease the impact of the ideas set forth, and while would not have been so noticeable if the entire novel was constructed in such a matter, the rest of the writing is quite formal, and as it is, the narrative structure suffers somewhat. Regardless, Fathers and Sons is a very interesting examination of the conflict of ideas that parents and their children necessarily experience, and has the admirable quality of being fair and honest to both sides, with very little in the way of bias on either side, even considering that Bazarov is the main thrust of the narrative.	2004-12-21
US	30652561	RZIU1JJG2N5FF	0374521352	689616208	The Dwarf	Books	5	7	7	N	N	The Dwarf	'I am twenty-six inches tall, shapely and well proportioned, my heads perhaps a trifle too large.' <br /> <br />With this, Piccoline the dwarf begins his tale of hate and murder. He is the special servant of the Prince, and is devoted to the man like no other on this Earth. For Piccoline hates, despises, denies each and every single living thing, human, dwarf, animal: it does not matter to his hatred. He delights in his hate, lavishly describing his distaste for this or that person, or for this or that emotion. <br /> <br />Consider: <br /> <br />'I seized the opportunity to sneer...' <br />'They are buffoons, though they do not know it, and nor does anybody else...' <br />'I stood there defenceless, naked, incapable of action, though I was foaming with rage.' <br />'My hatred was so alive that I almost thought I should lose consciousness...' <br /> <br />All this and more within the first fifty pages. He is consumed by his hate. Yet, at least in the beginning, there are occasional flashes of some other emotion - not love or kindness, but at the very least some sort of neutrality. He admires the paintings of the 'genius' Bernardo, and still later admires the weapons of war that the man designs, but would never call him a friend. There is, of course, the love for the Prince, but this is a white love ringed with black, for he only loves the Prince when the Prince is commanding him to do bleak things, or when the Prince holds him visibly higher than the other servants. <br /> <br />Towards the middle of the book, a war begins with a rival kingdom, and it is here that Piccoline almost succumbs to an ecstasy of negative emotion. He revels in the violence and terror, killing another dwarf he finds merely to be part of the destruction. He compares this murder to the time when he killed the little Princess' cat, and the comparison is dispassionate and intelligent. Later, the dwarf sets into motion his greatest triumph, an orgy of death and despair that ruins both kingdoms,perhaps forever. <br /> <br />It is difficult to recommend this book, yet I believe it is a necessary read. A diligent reader would not deny himself the pleasure of a treatise on love, so why not dip into the opposite, a dirge of hate? We all suffer from the emotion, whether cold hate or fiery, rational or not so much, and through Piccoline, we are able to view every terrible aspect. <br /> <br />In a telling section, Piccoline describes the creation of dwarfs as such: '...Our race is perpetuated through them, and thus and thus only can we enter this world. That is the inner reason for our sterility.' It is here when it is made clear to the reader - if it is not already - that Piccoline is a metaphor for the hate that we all carry within ourselves. He is hatred unleashed, unrestrained, and unapologetic. We may feel remorse after our actions, Piccoline never does. Strip away all positive qualities from a human being and you are left with this terrible creature. He embodies the desires we should not give in to, indeed, he executes them with glee <br /> <br />The end is as expected as it is chilling, and serves as a lesson to us all. At the risk of spoiling, I will say that Lagerkvist does not take the easy way out by killing the dwarf. No, he is left alive, though suffering, and this is an important choice. While incarcerated, the two kingdoms set about rebuilding their shattered empires, forging ties of peace and harmony, and Piccoline seethes. He knows that one day, perhaps soon, perhaps far away from now, but one day, he will be summoned again to do his master's bidding. He will be set forth on the world, to spread his seeds of hate and torment, and until that day, he is content to lie silent, forgotten, hating.	2004-12-19
US	30652561	R1QAWIMB3L8RU	0525475400	20930023	The Book of Sand	Books	5	62	63	N	N	The Book of Sand	The Book of Sand has thirteen stories - an accidental or fatal number, the author tells us, but not magical - and they all, more or less, deal with the same theme. While, in each and every story, there is a mystery, an enigma, a puzzle that may or may not be solved, the answer is always the same. Borges wants us to look beyond the artifices of our lives, beyond the linguistic, economic, political and religious restrictions we have given ourselves, and see the world for what it actually is. <br /> <br />One of the - many and varied - literary techniques that Borges uses is that of the literary reference. Always, the narrator uses an obscure reference to better make a point, or to expand the depth of a scene or image, using Tacitus, Sigurd and Brynhild, Ibsen, more. Yet, nestled quietly in between real authors and works are fictional creations, authors that are clever combinations of existing writers, works with titles that are pure fancy. The point that Borges is making is, I believe, that, with the passing of time and the simultaneously corrupting and enhancing efforts of language and culture, it does not matter if these works ever existed or not. To be affected by them it enough, to make a point or drive home an idea is enough. Four hundred years on, invoking the 'fighting windmills' phrase, does it matter if Cervantes ever really existed? Does it matter if I have or have not read the exploits of the man from La Mancha? In Borges world, the answer is no. <br /> <br />In one story, 'Utopia of a Tired Man', Eudoro Acevedo is transplanted from his home in the 20th century, to a place many thousands of years into the future. He meets a man, who explains the fall and rise again of mankind, who reveals the future history until 'now', when everything is different. He explains: <br /> <br />'The planet was populated by collective ghosts - Canada, Brazil, the Swiss Congo, and the Common Market. Almost no one knew anything of the history that preceded those platonic entities, but, of course, they knew every last detail of the most recent congress of pedagogies, or of imminent breakdowns in diplomatic relations, or of statements issued by Presidents...These things were read to be forgotten, for, only hours later, other trivialities would blot them out.' <br /> <br />This lengthy quote is perhaps Borges' most blatant and clear attack on the culture in which he lived. He quite obviously has a love of nature and literature and life, and bemoans the seeming lack of interest that most other people display. While the rest of the story is an interesting look at the future, it is clearly fanciful, and not an ideal world for Borges. Rather, it was written to make us think, something we just don't do enough. <br /> <br />The stories, composed when Borges was over 70, are for the most part an exercise in memory. A narrator of one - Ulrike - will remember a fleeting love. Another story has a group of men conversing on the problem of knowledge, which inspires an old man, 'a bit lost in metaphysics', to share a story of his youth. This is fairly typical for Borges, but is especially poignant here. The characters are remembering sad or strange or horrifying times, and nearly every single narrator mentions needing to share the tale before they die. Borges, at seventy, probably shared this opinion. <br /> <br />I have not taken the time to summarise Borges' short stories, for to do so would be to lose the point. Borges is capable of compressing a vast myriad of ideas and thoughts into a seven page short story, and to further reduce such themes and suggestions would be to lose them. Instead, I have commented upon what they meant to me, and what, I believe, they meant to him. Perhaps I am wrong, perhaps not, but that is the genius of Borges. He is infinitely interpretable, and should be: For each of us, there is an interpretation that fits, and for each of us, it is the right one.	2004-12-19
US	30652561	R3TKCC1FF6TQ3P	0618257306	332854827	Coming Soon!!!: A Narrative	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Coming Soon!!!	Coming Soon!!! (Or End Time, or The New Show) is a joyous post-modern romp, a witty, intelligent mash of ideas hovering around the central conceit of a showboat, an author, and another author.<br /><br />The plot is difficult to explain. John Barth - the author - wrote, as his first book, The Floating Opera, a novel that was loosely about The Original Floating Opera, a showboat on the Chesapeake. Johns Hopkins Johnson is an aspiring young author, and for his master's writing thesis, he wishes to create a sequel to The Floating Opera, a sequel that involves Johns writing his version of the sequel, and John Barth - the fictional character - writing another at the same time, in a competition. John Barth (A) reads this thesis submission and is intrigued, deciding that he would like to write the same novel, in a competition as well. So. We have the real author writing a story where the author 'John Barth' is writing a sequel to his previous novel while a young wannabe author attempts it as well, and while this is happening, a young wannabe author is writing a sequel to John Barth's novel while a character of John Barth is doing the same. Confusing.<br /><br />But it isn't, really. Barth manages to handle this story-within-a-story gimmick quite well, and in fact he does it in a few other ways on top of that. At the beginning of the real, physical novel, we are assuming that we are reading the Novel Emeritus' - the real John Barth - version, but by the end of the novel, there have been enough scattered hints to suggest that maybe Johns Hopkins Johnson won the challenge, and we are actually reading his novel. Maybe it is both? The question is never conclusively answered, and couldn't be, really, as the answer would lie in the universe outside the novel.<br /><br />Post-modern plot aside, Barth absolutely revels in playing with the English language. He capitalises words to add emphasis, combines words, rambles on, inserts commentary about his own personal life, et ceteras, abbreviates and just has fun: 'Detour now, is it, O Opter of the Options, Clicker of the Clicker, Mastress of the Might Mouse? Detour it is, then, even as Mlle Sherry Singer directed back there in (my) Chap. 1, 'Commencement' - Where last we saw your Novelist Aspirant & Apprentice narrator hip-hopping south and east and south again on wings of desire,...' and so on and so on. There are puns: On the The Original Floating Opera II, there is a character, the Phantom. Phantom of the Opera. Get it? Hilarious. Well, it is, in the narrative structure that Barth has created. He throws in the the elements for a joke, then, several paragraphs later, puts it all together. If you can catch it before he does, you win, if not, you get to giggle at his cleverness.<br /><br />The plot largely focuses on The Original Floating Opera II, with expositionary detours of what the Novelist Emeritus (Barth) is doing over the five years of the story, and then the Novelist Aspirant (Hopkins) gets a turn, introducing us to his love, Sherry, his parents, his ideas and dreams, and of course, the showboat. They both write the same chapters, a '1995.1' and a '1995.2', but there are little 'off-story' sections as well, including a Cast of Several, which explains all of the characters and their roles. 47 pages into the novel.<br /><br />The novel can be a difficult read. Barth is very, very clever, and he knows enough of the English language and grammatical structure that he can mix it up and mess it about with ease. And he does. If rambling, largely irrelevant plots coupled with trickery for trickery's sake and a penchant for look-at-me cleverness is not your idea of a rip-roaring novelistic experience, then pass by the pastiche of witticisms. If it is, then settle down and enjoy the work of a master at the top of his game.	2004-12-18
US	30652561	RHTEJSGQ4NG1O	0684801221	737092002	The Old Man and The Sea	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The Old Man and the Sea	Santiago is an old man. He was once a great fisherman, but no longer. The other fishermen ridicule him, or ignore him. Eighty days without a fish, and the parents of the small boy who helps him, Manolin, have forbidden him to work with Santiago any more. He is unlucky, they say, and the word is echoed around town. <br /> <br />But the old fisherman does not mind. He knows that life is difficult, that not everything goes the way you wish it would. On the eighty-fifth day, he sets out into the water, alone, and hooks a great fish. 'Never have I had such a strong fish nor one who acted so strangely', he muses to himself, early on in the battle. For it is a battle. The fish he has caught is strong, has great endurance, and a cunning that Santiago admires. <br /> <br />As time passes, he starts to talk to himself more and more. He muses on the strength of the fish, and how they are brothers. He desperately wants to catch it, so that he can return to Havana with some glory and enough money to sit and listen to the 'great DiMaggio' on the radio, in peace. But he also admires the fish, and gradually, he becomes unsure as to whether he has made the right decision in trying so hard to kill it. <br /> <br />'Never have I seen a greater, or more beautiful, or a calmer or more noble thing than you, brother. Come on and kill me. I do not care who kills who.' <br /> <br />Santiago is an old man, a man who has accepted his weaknesses and failures, but who also knows his strengths. He has a great confidence in his own abilities, but it is a weary, hesitant confidence that is difficult to explain. On the one hand, he knows that he has the capability to capture the fish. He has caught large fish before, and, thanks to the raw fish he has been eating, considers that he has the strength to keep going, for ever if necessary. But he protests and cajoles and pleads at his individual body parts to work, for them not to fail. 'Hold up, legs. Last for me, head. Last for me. You never went.' He knows he can do it, but, because of his age and the majesty of his 'brother', he is worried that maybe this time, this fish will be the one that got away. <br /> <br />Hemingway's writing is sparse and effective. Sentences are short, sharp, and have very little in the way of flowery words or fancy punctuation. The writing suits the story very well, because Santiago is an up and down man himself. What you see is what you get, both in the characters, the setting, and the writing. There is also the interesting effect where, due to the simplicity of the writing and the sparse selection of characters, the story can be interpreted on many levels. On one, it is the story of man struggling and fighting for something that, once achieved, we cannot hold on to. On the other, it is the sadness and inevitability of age. Or the insignificance of the single man in today's group-action world. Or many other interpretations. <br /> <br />The ending is sad, beautiful and completely appropriate. Could the novel have ended any other way? Yes, but I argue that if it had, then the message, the electricity, the purpose that Hemingway had been building for the previous 90 pages, this would have been lost with the easy, happy solution. Instead, we have man's failure in success, and Santiago's calm acceptance, and it is inspiring.	2004-12-18
US	30652561	R2GPHVZOLHX26X	0805210415	393259245	The Periodic Table (Everyman's Library Contemporary Classics Series)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	The Periodic Table	In the third to last chapter of The Periodic Table, the narrator - Levi - goes to his 25th University Anniversary. He meets a colleague of his, one that he did not know too well during university, and they swap stories on chemistry, a passion and an occupation both dear to their hearts and the thorn in their side. Levi informs the man of the latest book he is writing, a small book, one that, he hopes, will convey the quiet satisfaction he derives from chemistry, because it 'did not seem fair to me that the world should know everything about how the doctor, prostitute, sailor, assassin, countess, Ancient Roman, conspirator and Polynesian lives and nothing about how we transformers of matter live.' <br /> <br />That sentence sums up very well the thrust of the novel. Split into chapters named after a different element of the Periodic Table, Levi takes us on a journey through his life, from boyhood to adulthood, the primary preoccupation of which being chemistry. There is a very large section that he glosses over - the trauma he experienced in a Nazi concentration camp - and this is because he has, in his own words, more than adequately dealt with that subject matter previously. No, this book is not an upraised fist at Nazi Germany, but it does not shy away from the topic, either. First and foremost, it is a series of essays on chemistry. Not the grandiose, world-changing chemistry, but the small achievements, the humble failures, the baffling oddities. <br /> <br />First, is Argon. Argon is an inert gas, resistant to change. Just like his family, Levi muses, rapidly jumping back a century and recounting his extended family history from there, with liberal doses of Jewish linguistics and customs thrown in for good measure. Now, acquainted as to the sort of man Levi is, we wander through his college years, each chapter focusing both on his growth as a chemist and a person, but also on the element for which it is named. Interspersed throughout are a few, largely unrelated short stories that deal with a specific element in an interesting way, the story of lead being a particular highlight. These are stories that he composed as a young man, polished and presented in an easily consumed fashion in this, his endstone book. <br /> <br />The second last chapter briefly touches on Levi's World War II experience. Through a 'typical' chemistry story involving Vanadium, he engages in correspondence with a man who is later revealed to have been one of the many German officers in Bruno, where Levi was incarcerated. This story is sad, and for me was the most powerful of the fifteen or so on offer. Levi is frightened at the idea of meeting this man again - not because the German was specifically cruel, but because it brings back a life since over. The German, Dr Muller, is anxious to be forgiven, trying to 'settle his accounts with the past and they didn't tally'. For Muller, this meeting might even the score, for Levi, it could never. This chapter is one of the shortest, but carries with it the full weight of experience, sadness, and forgotten terror. <br /> <br />For the most part, however, the novel is not depressing or bleak. Rather, it shows the small joys allowed to a chemist who truly loves his occupation. Chemistry puzzles are solved, there are adventures involving chicken excrement and lipstick - don't ask - and throughout, there is a sense that chemistry can be fun, can be enjoyable, can be exciting. No, it is enjoyable, fun and exciting, but only for certain people. And for these people - Levi obviously included - it is a passion, a friend, a lover, and he wishes to share this joy with us, the sadly ignorant reader. I thank him for that.	2004-12-18
US	30652561	R14494S244IOVN	0879237996	160952490	Badenheim 1939	Books	5	39	40	N	N	Badenheim 1939	Badenheim is a quiet, idyllic holiday town in Eastern Europe. The 'leader' of the town, Dr Pappenheim, is busy preparing for the annual festival, writing letters and sending telegrams to beg and plead for musicians and artists from Vienna. <br /> <br />While the preparations are under way, the Sanitation Department begins quietly undertaking a rigorous inspection of each and every house and shop in Badenheim. Among the many questions asked is how many and who of the residents are Jewish. The vacationers and locals alike think nothing of the questions, nonchalantly confirming or denying their religion, and returning to their food, their wine, their entertainment. Here and there, a few people discuss the increasing powers of the Sanitation Department - they have just recently closed the Post Office - but nobody seems to mind. Badenheim is quiet and peaceful, and that is how they like it. <br /> <br />Time passes. The impresario, Dr Pappenheim, is still writing letters, but he senses that they are going off into the void, never to return. A few - very few - letters are still allowed into Badenheim, but for the most part, the Sanitation Department has closed off the city. Guards are posted to deny entry or exit to any man, woman or child of Jewish descent. It happens so slowly that nobody really notices, but at one stage, almost all of the non-Jewish people have gone, and of the tiny trickle of visitors allowed into Badenheim, every person is a Jew. <br /> <br />There is a quiet horror to Badenheim 1939. Throughout this very short book, it seems as though with each page, the oppression and terror of World War II is approaching the Jewish people of Badenheim, but they never see it. With every freedom slowly being denied - the shops are closed, the gates are sealed, outside communication is forbidden - the reader is left to wonder if this time, if this time when the Sanitation Department closes the pastry shop, say, will they understand? But they never do. Everything happens over such a long period of time, and so quietly, that nobody really seems to realise when they are suddenly trapped, except for a few minor characters who are slowly going mad, the cracks in the calm facade they have wrapped themselves in widening with every minute. <br /> <br />This book is most effective because we know what happened to the Jews post-1939. We know where they are going, and what will likely happen to them. The Sanitation Department assures them that they will be transplanted to Poland, and everything will be fine. They believe because they have to believe. Towards the end of the novel, the razor wire, the guns, the dogs all make an appearance. To ignore what is happening is suicidal, and yet they do. After all, how could a race of people imagine that they would be persecuted in such a terrifying manner? Surely, their minds would shied away from such horrible information, from the mere idea that a man - a country - wanted to eradicate six million of them? And yet, that is what happened, and that is how the novel ends, a perfect, bleak, dark ending that is all the more horrifying for how completely reasonable every single tiny little step leading up to their incarceration inside a derelict train, headed, presumably, for Auschwitz. <br /> <br />Badenheim 1939 is a powerful book because it shows how easy it is to accept something unacceptable, if it is presented in small, reasonable, easily palatable pieces. None of these characters are overly bad, or good - they are absolutely normal. They squabble, they argue, they love, they laugh, they sing, they cry. In fact, throughout the entire novel, nothing untoward happens to any of them - except for the encroaching holocaust.	2004-12-18
US	30652561	R2XCBL0GHP1V36	0143035002	289712823	Anna Karenina	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Anna Karenina	Anna Karenina is a rich, young, beautiful socialite. She has a successful, respected husband, a large group of wealthy and influential friends, and an intelligent young son. Yet she is bored, and feels as though her life is empty because she has never known love. While visiting her brother, she meets the dashing Count Vronsky, and an affair begins that deeply affects her family and the people around her.<br /><br />The novel, Anna Karenina, is founded on a problem that by today's standards would not be as destructive as it was in 1880s Russian society. When the Vronsky-Anna affair deepens from a merely physical attraction to love and eventual pregnancy, the main problem for the principal characters lies in the difficulty of divorce in Russia, a problem which has no equivalent in today's looser society. As such, Anna's plight unfortunately loses a lot of its weight, and we are forced instead to treat the novel as a social statement, a cross section of Russian morality and thought, a glimpse at a way of life long since gone.<br /><br />Because of Tolstoy's impressive range and ability to portray each character in an almost totally unbiased manner, this is not so much of a problem. Levin, the somber land owning aristocrat, given to farming and pining for the woman Vronsky spurned to be with Anna, is arguably the novel's other primary focus. His storyline deals with the difficulties the landed aristocracy faced as wealthy commoners began to prove themselves capable of making a profit using American capitalism as a tool, something the nobility had rejected as vulgar. It is through Levin that most of the ideas of the novel are explored: That of religion, serfdom and nobility, elections, the 'new' morality of the younger aristocrats, and so on.<br /><br />A flaw of the novel - although I will put it down to social differences rather than technical mistakes, as Tolstoy shows no lack of talent in most areas - is that Anna is not very sympathetic. I did not care for her problems, and found her a vapid, irritating character. She complains, she whines, she pouts. She is horribly jealous. She did not care at all for her second child, nor was she interesting in anyone else's interests, problem or desires. Yes, we the reader are made aware that she is beautiful and interesting and intelligent, but in all of her dealings with the other characters, she comes across as either selfishly manipulative or airily vacuous.<br /><br />However. The 'Levin' sections of the novel are wonderful. Levin, the helpful introduction informs me, is Tolstoy's greatest self portrait. They shared the same occupation, the same wife, the same ideas. On Tolstoy's wedding day, he forgot his shirt, so too does Levin. Perhaps this is why the character of Levin is so realised, so sympathetic, so endearing. Of course, he has his unpleasant moments, but these serve to round out his character, rather than annoy. There was a scene, about five hundred pages into the novel, when a gun was accidentally fired by one of the characters. At the time, I stopped reading, put the book down for a moment, and felt a sense of dread that one of my favourite characters might have died. They hadn't, but I think this is one of the greatest recommendations for the novel that I have to offer. I genuinely cared about this man - Levin - and I did not want to see him come to harm. The same could not be said of Anna.<br /><br />As a social statement, Anna Karenina is amazing. While I found the 'problem' of divorce a difficulty to reconcile with my own social upbringing, the way it was discussed, argued, condemned and praised within the wealthy circles of Russia was extremely interesting. All of Tolstoy's characters were intelligent and articulate, able to give reasoned, attractive arguments to either the positive or negative side of Anna's actions.<br /><br />Is Anna Karenina to be recommended? Yes, a thousand times yes. There is a richness, a full, created identity of the world in which the characters live that is difficult to find in another piece of art. Tolstoy's world is fully realised, because it is the world - or was. A problem in many works of fiction is that it is hard - if not impossible - to believe that the characters and situations could exist once the pages have finished turning and the story is over. Not so with Anna Karenina. The characters, and most importantly, the settings, are allowed to breathe and live. It is as though we are seeing a slice of a full, coherent reality, and while it is not necessarily the most important slice of life for everyone, it is a significant piece. Before and after this slice, the characters live, even though we do not see it, and this is felt within the pages.ch the characters live that is difficult to find in another piece of art. Tolstoy's world is fully realised, because it is the world - or was. A problem in many works of fiction is that it is hard - if not impossible - to believe that the characters and situations could exist once the pages have finished turning and the story is over. Not so with Anna Karenina. The characters, and most importantly, the settings, are allowed to breathe and live. It is as though we are seeing a slice of a full, coherent reality, and while it is not necessarily the most important slice of life for everyone, it is a significant piece. Before and after this slice, the characters live, even though we do not see it, and this is felt within the pages.	2004-12-13
US	30652561	RDJ20JBWB82T8	0375703829	22806037	Silk	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Silk	In 1861, an epidemic swept Europe. Silkworms, formerly a source of great wealth, were diseased, the eggs rotten, and nobody knew why. Lesser quality eggs were to be found in the Middle East, or - with great danger - in China. But the greatest eggs were to be found in Japan, a country all but isolated from the world, voluntarily secluding itself from everyone and everything. Recently, a small port has been opened by the government, for very limited trading. Silkworm eggs are not allowed. Herve Joncour has been commissioned to travel from France to Japan, a three-month long expedition, to smuggle eggs from Hara Kei, a famous - infamous - smuggler, thief and warlord. In Japan, he falls in love with a girl whose eyes are not slanted. <br /> <br />Baricco's novella is a beautifully written piece, dripping with magic and charm. Sentences are short, sharp and insightful, yet they focus upon events and descriptions that would not normally warrant a mention. We never learn the colour of Joncour's hair, or how tall he is, yet we are told the colour of the handkerchief he wears in his suit. There is a strain of magic realism running through the novel. One character, with no reason given, stops speaking. Baldabiou, the man who introduced the Japanese silkworms into France, speaks with the wisdom of the world, unable to communicate in the mundane way of ordinary people. 1861 is `the year Flaubert was completing Salammbo, electric light remained hypothetical, and Abraham Lincoln, beyond the Ocean, was fighting a war of which he was not to see the finish'. By using short sentences, Baricco is able to make grand statements, quiet pronouncements and immensely small insights into people and places. It is an interesting technique, and one that is used to great affect. Joncour's wife is described as, `She was a tall woman, she moved slowly, she had long black hair that she never put up. She had a most beautiful voice.' That is what we learn of her early on in the novel, that is how shestays: elegant, soft, feminine. <br /> <br />When Joncour is in Japan, the novel's language becomes more flowery, the sentences longer and with greater detail. Perhaps this is because Joncour is familiar with his own land, yet an alien to this new country, so the narrator needs to be more descriptive. As the years pass, he becomes more familiar with Hara Kei and his township, and the lavish details decrease and slow until they are no more. There is a young girl, nameless, voiceless, and captivated with the Frenchman. They avoid eye contact one year, then share glances the next. A note is passed, then another. The courtship is long, ultimately fruitless, and achingly beautiful. Whole pages - of a 100 page novel - are devoted to her grace, her physiognomy, her manner. When he first sets eyes upon her, the narrative becomes disjointed, as though the narrator - and Joncour - is too shocked by this beauty for coherency. There is a passage, a dense, long paragraph with description and internalised thought, but then: <br /> <br />Suddenly, <br />Without the smallest movement, <br />That young girl, <br />Opened her eyes. <br /> <br />The narrative resumes, but Joncour is shaken. Love blossoms, for both, instantly. <br /> <br />There are other characters, mostly in France. There are to be considered more as aspects of the story than real characters. They exist to help clarify - or obscure - the mysteries of Japan and the nameless girl. The nine months when Joncour is home in France are covered in a page, the week in Japan laid out in detail. His life revolves around his trip, as does the narrative. The affect is nothing short of amazing. <br /> <br />The ending is both sad and lovely at the same time, and not to be lessened by the description of `bittersweet'. The magic remains until the very last page, and stays once the book has been closed. For Joncour, and the other Frenchmen, Japan is a mystery, an enigma, a riddle. For the novel, it is the same: something to be described with loving detail for its wonders, but never to be understood.	2004-12-10
US	30652561	R1YFK6092WUAJE	0140449124	73897934	Madame Bovary (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	19	27	N	N	Madame Bovary	Charles Bovary is a struggling Doctor, married to an older woman he supposes he loves, living out his daily life as one must: working, sleeping, eating. Mediocrity is what he has strived for, mediocrity is what he has attained. Though possessing a mild respect from his patients and immediate social circles, he is a nobody, a ghost: the sort of man you would not notice if, one day, he was to disappear completely.<br /><br />One day, he is called to the farm of the wealthy Pere Rouault, though he is hardly a shrewd businessman. He sets the injured man's leg, and while he is at the farm, he meets a young, beautiful woman, Emma Bovary. Previously a candle without a flame, Charles sparks into life. Ignoring his wife's carping, he visits the farm, again and again, happy if all he sees of Emma is but the slightest of glimpses. Months pass this way, until finally, his wife grows sick of his behaviour, sharply restricting his freedoms to enjoy once more the role of dominant spouse.<br /><br />Conveniently, Charles' wife soon dies, and he is free to court Emma. She - and it is from here that the story mostly stays with her - believes that what she feels is love for the young doctor, although the sensations in her heart and soul where not exactly what her romance novels told her they would be. But she accepts his proposal all the same, and they are married. Charles' passion, brought to life so suddenly, stutters and all but dies when his goal is achieved. Emma stifles under his routine, boring lifestyle, wanting more, wishing she could be as glamorous as the fine ladies she reads about in novels or hears about from Paris.<br /><br />After Emma suffers from a self-inflicted series of fainting attacks, the doctor and his wife travel to the small town of Yonville, hoping that a 'change of air' would help fix her problems. It is in this small town that the story truly begins, and we begin to learn who and what she is.<br /><br />Emma Bovary! The novel is a song to her, for no matter how deplorable her actions, how base her thoughts or behaviours, the faceless narrator never ceases his love affair with her. Clothes, gestures and facial expressions are lavishly described, and she is always portrayed in a sympathetic light. There is a sense that the narrator is as in love with her as most of the primary male characters are, and that, by encompassing her entire life in his reach, he possesses her more fully than Leon, or Rodolphe, or Charles.<br /><br />The small village is not exactly what Emma had expected, but she learns to live there. Recently giving birth to a little girl, she is friendly and warm to the other citizens. Too warm, perhaps, for one young student, Leon, takes a fancy to her. He is forever sending smoldering looks her way, or lacing his sentences with passionate meaning. At first, she is repulsed by his advances, then curious, then aroused to passion herself. Their love grows through stolen glances, the slightest of touches, shared letters of love and lust. But it is not to be. Leon leaves, and Emma's heart is broken.<br /><br />Enter Rodolphe. A dashing, charismatic man, he actively pursues her. There is a very brief scene, from his point of view, where he muses over the winning and discarding of Emma Bovary: 'Three words of gallantry and she'd adore you, I'm sure of it. She would be tender, charming...Yes, but how do we get rid of her afterwards?' Over a festival and a horse ride, he succeeds in seducing her, and they become lovers.<br /><br />For Emma, Rodolphe is all she could want. Like a couple truly in love, they have clandestine meetings, they share secrets that would destroy them should another discover the truth, they have hidden crannies for letters. She is happiest when they are sneaking through fields to be with one another, because to sneak and hide and scheme is to live and to love. She deifies Rodolphe, placing him high above every other man. She is alive with him, in love with him, she is his. He enjoys the attention until she becomes too clingy, and this, her second adulterous relationship, comes to an end.<br /><br />Throughout the novel, Emma's behaviour deteriorates from a respectable, upstanding wife of the local doctor, to a secretive, conniving woman who owes thousands. She steals, she lies, she cheats, but manages to rationalise it all because she loves so passionately. What matter for money, if there is love? And if there is money, what better thing to spend it on, than two people who have fallen for one another? She is unwilling - and perhaps unable - to appreciate the reality of what she is doing, as she turns her husband's carefully managed business into a financial wreck, a house of cards that is oh so fragile, waiting for that one tiny breath to send it all tumbling down.<br /><br />When it does, the novel is at its very best. Emma Bovary is simply unable to accept what is happening to her, and flits from friend to friend, searching for a way out of her troubles. In her idealised romantic world, the heroine never experiences financial ruin, so why should she? In the novels she has read, the leading man and leading lady always triumph, so surely she will too. When this does not appear to be the case, cracks start to appear, and the ruin of her life escalates.<br /><br />Madame Bovary is a fantastic study of the secret affects of an affair. What we have here is a woman unaccustomed to reality, treating everything as though she is the main character, as though the world is for her, that her will is the ultimate, and that, in the end, love conquers all. It is interesting that even her lovers cannot keep up with her, all eventually growing tired of her constant amplification of what is being experienced. And yet, Emma remains believable. Flaubert keeps her from stumbling into caricature, something that would be all too easy for a lesser author. She is a heroine, she is the star of the show, and though the storyline of the novel may not allow her to achieve what she desires, the beauty of description and the tenderness with which the narrator handles her does. A tremendous achievement.enjoys the attention until she becomes too clingy, and this, her second adulterous relationship, comes to an end. <br /> <br />Throughout the novel, Emma's behaviour deteriorates from a respectable, upstanding wife of the local doctor, to a secretive, conniving woman who owes thousands. She steals, she lies, she cheats, but manages to rationalise it all because she loves so passionately. What matter for money, if there is love? And if there is money, what better thing to spend it on, than two people who have fallen for one another? She is unwilling - and perhaps unable - to appreciate the reality of what she is doing, as she turns her husband's carefully managed business into a financial wreck, a house of cards that is oh so fragile, waiting for that one tiny breath to send it all tumbling down. <br /> <br />When it does, the novel is at its very best. Emma Bovary is simply unable to accept what is happening to her, and flits from friend to friend, searching for a way out of her troubles. In her idealised romantic world, the heroine never experiences financial ruin, so why should she? In the novels she has read, the leading man and leading lady always triumph, so surely she will too. When this does not appear to be the case, cracks start to appear, and the ruin of her life escalates. <br /> <br />Madame Bovary is a fantastic study of the secret affects of an affair. What we have here is a woman unaccustomed to reality, treating everything as though she is the main character, as though the world is for her, that her will is the ultimate, and that, in the end, love conquers all. It is interesting that even her lovers cannot keep up with her, all eventually growing tired of her constant amplification of what is being experienced. And yet, Emma remains believable. Flaubert keeps her from stumbling into caricature, something that would be all too easy for a lesser author. She is a heroine, she is the star of the show, and though the storyline of the novel may not allowher to achieve what she desires, the beauty of description and the tenderness with which the narrator handles her does. A tremendous achievement.	2004-11-22
US	30652561	R3SZBKTDJ836DY	0140447954	198612908	A Hero of Our Time (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	41	42	N	N	A Hero of Our Time	While out travelling, the narrator - who we can assume is either Lermontov himself, or a fictionalised version thereof - meets an old soldier, Maxim, who is more than happy to share a tale or three of his life. 'Lermontov' is an appreciative listener, taking notes and jotting down places and names. This is why he is travelling, this is why he talks to people: For their stories, theirs lives, their experiences that you 'cannot find in the romances of Russia'. Maxim tells him the story of Grigory Alexandrovich Pechorin, another soldier who once shared his quarters. <br /> <br />The picture he paints is an interesting one. On the one hand, he declares this Pechorin a great friend, but on the other, comments on his lack of emotion and coldness. He is capable of great generosity, and equally great hostility, the choice of which seems more a whim than for any reason. Maxim admires his education, wit and talent with women, but is offended by his lack of accountability. <br /> <br />In the story Maxim tells, he and Pechorin travel to an Asian warchief's home, where Pechorin is infatuated with the leader's young daughter, Bela. Through a series of manipulative events - all arranged by Pechorin, without remorse or even satisfaction - the daughter is kidnapped and the young soldier falls in love. The story ends tragically, though not unexpectedly, and serves to whet our appetites for who this man really is. <br /> <br />As narrated by Maxim, these stories are colorful, eventful, and written with great, broad strokes. Maxim is not a very educated man, and as such he is unable to properly paint the picture of Pechorin. But he has an admirable flair for description, which in his own, simple ways, are very effective. The narrator is more intelligent and inquisitive, commenting playfully on characters and situations, and viewing the world with an almost child-like glee. Everything is interesting, every road is worth travelling. The road he does happen to stumble upon is Pechorin's,and because the man being described is so different to the airy views of the narrator, it is interesting to watch him struggle with this enigma. <br /> <br />The next section - which forms the meat of the story - are three short pieces written by Pechorin that the narrator managed to acquire from Maxim. Taman, the first piece, is probably as interesting as Maxim's story, although it reveals little of Pechorin's character. The third piece, The Fatalist, serves as a rounding out of who and what Pechorin is, and acts well as a finisher, being only 9 pages long. <br /> <br />But it is the story of Princess Mary that is by far the most interesting.  Set over a month, it chronicles the events of Pechorin's holiday at the Elizabeth Spring, a place where hopeful socialites mix with distinguished military men to secure strong marriages, or engage in clandestine affairs.     A man Pechorin knows - not a friend, because, 'of two friends, one is always the slave of the other...I can never be a slave, and to command in these circumstances is too exacting', is in love with Mary, the daughter of a wealthy but socially poor Princess.  For no reason other than it would amuse him, Pechorin sets out to make young Mary fall in love with, enjoying himself immensely while the spa descends into a chaotic, backstabbing pit of secret looks and pistol duels. <br /> <br />Through his journal, we come to know Pechorin.  He is very casual in the way he writes, trailing off with thoughts he finds distasteful, commenting slyly on everyone, including himself, and willing to analyse everything and everybody.  He is witty, cultured, and bored with is life.  Toying with people amuses him, dispelling the ever-present melancholy of his life.  Yet - and this is something that is initially difficult to believe, but thanks to Lermontov's skill as an author, works very well - Pechorin is not malicious, nor does he do what he does out of anger.  He tends to work at people's emotions, playing them out moreartfully than they would themselves.  When events escalate, and he finds himself in a rigged duel, Pechorin is not contrite, but is willing to let it all go and have everyone go back to the spa, with all forgiven.  When this request is denied, he doesn't mind very much, and if he is to die, what matter?  'After all, the worst you can do is die, and you've got to die sometime.', he comments.   <br /> <br />Pechorin is not a sympathetic character, but he is not trying to be.  Through Maxim's story, and the narrator's subsequent efforts to discover more about this interesting man, our curiosity is aroused.  How could Pechorin be the way he is?  What man would enjoy the suffering of others, but be equally amused by the lack of excitement?  Why would anyone risk life and limb for a woman, then spurn her when she offers herself to him?  The journals of Pechorin both answer and do not answer these questions.  Pechorin is Pechorin.  Self-consistent, and absolutely accountable to himself, he is assured, intelligent, and charismatic.  To others, he is a mystery, but, as he muses, it may be because everyone is attracted to evil, and for him, it is more interesting than being good.	2004-11-21
US	30652561	R1RM90NM75LY42	0374522839	599734264	The Death of Artemio Cruz: A Novel	Books	4	42	43	N	N	The Death of Artemio Cruz	Artemio Cruz owns a vast empire in Mexico, encompassing newspapers, land, construction and more. He has a beautiful wife and daughter, both of whom he cannot stand, nor they him. His aide, Padilla, a man he trusts with his empire, and one he has grown to love as the son he lost so many years ago. He is so important, so respected, so necessary to the Mexican country that the President tries to impress him, rather than the other way around. But Artemio Cruz is dying, painfully and slowly, and it is while dying that he has a chance to evaluate his life, to take a good look at himself and what he has achieved. <br /> <br />Cruz is a complicated man. As a youth, he fought in the various, chaotic revolutions and counter-revolutions that periodically caused Mexico to cease functioning as a nation, becoming little more than a series of loosely connected fiefdoms. Using his intelligence and daring, he was able to secure a command in the fight against Pancho Villa, but more importantly, he also knew when to leave the life of a soldier for a more solid existence. As a young man, he met Regina, the woman he was to love until his dying day. <br /> <br />As an older man, he is respected and influential, but also cold and distant. Gone are the passionate, poorly thought-out heroics of his early adulthood. He no longer loves like it doesn't matter, or cares much for the reality of another person. At his annual New Year's party, Cruz retires early to a comfortable leather chair positioned so he can watch everyone else have fun. The unspoken rules of the party forbids guests to talk to him at all, other than to pay their respects. His wife lives in another city, and a prostitute shares his bed this night, as she has every other night for the past eight years. <br /> <br />The three technique Fuentes uses in painting Cruz's life are quite interesting. In the present of the novel, when Cruz is dying, the narration is first person, disjointed, and very, very personal. No physical details are omitted, no matter how disgusting. Thoughts are fragmented, jumping from place to place, from time to time. The first few instances of this are difficult to follow, because we do not yet know Cruz's life, but as the novel progresses, the chaotic mental ramblings of the present become clearer, if not for Cruz but for us. <br /> <br />The second stylistic method used are the second person sections. These are generally short, but are the harshest and most self-critical. It is as though Cruz has stepped back from himself, created a 'you' for him to pour forth his bile, resentment, anger and also satisfaction about himself and his own life. These sections are just as personal as the first-person chapters, but in an emotional sense. He probes at the reasons he did this, or why he would think that. These sections are almost entirely devoid of other characters, it is simply Cruz with himself, condemning and praising, remembering and trying to forget. <br /> <br />The third - and most plentiful - type of chapters are in third person, dated, and taken from various times throughout his life. It is here we learn of Regina, here we learn why the phrase, 'We crossed the river on horseback' is so important, why his wife hates him, and more. In these sections, we are almost never shown his thoughts, nor those of anybody else. They are very detached, expositionary scenes, helping to explain the intimate thoughts and ramblings of the second- and first-person chapters. <br /> <br />Towards the end of the narrative, as Artemio Cruz approaches his death, the 'you' and the 'I' narratives start to merge, fuzzing and growing indistinct. He rails against himself, then defends his decisions over the years, then praises himself for the love he has, even now, for Regina. The sections - interspersing the 'you' and 'I' and even 'he' of Cruz within the space of four sentences - could be confusing if done earlier, but because we are familiar with his life and thoughts, they make sense. There are pages long sequences of broken thoughts, flitting between time and place without warning or explanation, and surprisingly, these are effective and do not come across at all as a gimmick. Rather, it is the character of Cruz - presented elsewhere as so strong and stable when old, so mercurial and romantic when young - breaking apart, unable to accept his death, unwilling to leave his life, even if it will mean re-uniting with Regina. <br /> <br />In the end, what we have is a character study. The setting - early 20th century Mexico - is rich and colourful, although at times, it does fade into the background as Artemio Cruz's character takes over. This is by no means a negative, as Cruz is a wonderful diverse man. He has weaknesses and strengths, and the novel spends as much time of his flaws as it does on his achievements. It is a credit to Fuentes that the vibrancy of Mexico shines through in what is, primarily, a journey through the mind of a proud man, a lonely man, a dying man: Artemio Cruz.	2004-11-20
US	30652561	R33AIAI50D7ZCI	0140440402	237769681	Oblomov (Classics)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Oblomov	Oblomov is a lazy man. He is a reasonably well off - but not rich - Russian aristocrat, enjoying the labour that his three hundred serfs provide, but not really aware of either the scope of his holdings, or exactly what it takes for the town of Oblomovka to produce the thousands of roubles he is provided with each year. Once an energetic young man, ready to change the word with ideas and action, he has faded into a fat, lazy slob. <br /> <br />He has a very few friends. All but one of these friends visit Oblomov to leech money and food from him, and he happily allows it because he knows there will always be more. They sit around all day talking of nothing, or sleeping, or eating. That has been their life, thanks to the hard work of Oblomov's serfs, for the past decade. Oblomov's only useful friend, Stolz, tries desperately to coax him back into the real world, attempting to interest him in plays, opera, socialisation, anything at all. But Oblomov is not interested, content to while away his life inside his dirty rooms, eating and sleeping, sleeping and eating. <br /> <br />And yet, Oblomov is a sympathetic character. Perhaps this is because we have all had feelings of laziness, we have always questioned the reasons for living an active, energetic life. Oblomov reasons that a man could spend thirty years working hard to provide himself ease and comfort in his old age, or he could simply begin the ease and comfort now, when he is a young man. He internalises at great lengths over the path he has chosen, and surprisingly, his ideas and choices seem valid. Perhaps not something an ordinary person could choose - we don't all have peasants and villages in our name - but if we did, why not? Why not choose a life of easy living, of good meals and (arguably) good company? <br /> <br />Soon into the story, Oblomov is dealt the twin blows of having to move from his apartments, and finding out that his village is no longer providing the level of money he is used to. Here he shows his true colours, seemingly unable to act, unable to do much of anything. He puts the signing of papers and the writing of letters off until tomorrow, always tomorrow, and it is almost too late when Stolz saves the day. He implores Oblomov, telling him that his current lifestyle is unhealthy, and that he will be dead within the decade if he continues such activities - or rather, no activities at all. <br /> <br />It it not Stolz who awakens him from his slumber. No, he meets a young woman, Olga, and falls in love. To be honest, when this thread of the novel began, I wasn't too impressed. It seemed as though the moral of the story would be that love conquers all, an answer that I did not think would be within Oblomov's character. Thankfully, Goncharov did not use this easy solution, instead keeping Oblomov true to himself. The results are sad, but satisfactorily inevitable. <br /> <br />Throughout the novel, Goncharov introduces various side plots to illustrate how easy it is to take advantage of an idle aristocrat who has simply no idea of his own finances. The text makes it seem as though most of the nobility had no real concept of what is involved in getting from fallow earth to grown wheat to money in their hand. Oblomov comes across as the 'ultimate' aristocrat, one so removed from the reality in which he exists that he does not, for all intents and purposes, have any reality at all. Were Oblomov to suddenly die one day, his serfs would never know, his family are dead already, and his leeching friends would simply move on to another fool. As the perfect man of culture, Oblomov has nothing at all. <br /> <br />Towards the end of the novel, events become rushed, with years being skipped with almost every paragraph. But this serves to heighten the point Goncharov is trying to make. Oblomov's life is seen to be as ineffectual as possible, and even when he does make some small changes, the ripples quickly fade away. After his love affair is over, Oblomov considers his way of life validated, sinking even further into the stupor he had been carefully cultivating for years. <br /> <br />There are moments of humour within the novel. Oblomov's servant, Zakhar, is as pathetic as his master, and the interactions between the two are quite hilarious at times. Similarly, the scenes of love between Oblomov and Olga are touching, and accurately capture the naive adolescent love that everyone endures, only realising after the fact how ignorant those feelings really were. Almost all of the characters are very well done, with the possible exception of Stolz, who, as Goncharov himself said, is 'too good to be true', 'the idea peeping through him too nakedly'. He is, however, still an interesting enough character, but the times when the narration turns to him are admittedly weaker than when on any other character. <br /> <br />In the end, Oblomov is an interesting look at Russian aristocracy in the 19th century. While some elements are obviously caricatured, and Oblomov himself is - almost - too pathetic and oblivious to believe, the novel is definitely worth a look.	2004-11-15
US	30652561	R3CBH3CT7HH6W	0449911659	437546793	Rabbit, Run	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Rabbit, Run	Harry 'Rabbit' Angstrom was once king of the high school world, a star basketball player, tall and handsome, and able to get the girls. Now, several years on, he is married, frustrated and unsure as to how it all ended up this way. One day, arriving home to his alcoholic, dreary wife and his meager home, he snaps. He will leave his wife, his responsibilities, his child. He will run. <br /> <br />Rabbit turns to his former coach for advice, the old lecher introduces him to a part-time prostitute. He moves in with her the same night and they develop a dominant-submissive relationship, his affection existing only because it allows him to demand, hers because she knows no better. Like most of the other events in the story, this one is sad, gritty, and very real. Ruth, the plump good time girl, is a sympathetic character, and there are enough flashes of hard iron in her make-up that any sensation of her being a caricature or place-holder character fades. <br /> <br />What Updike has done here is to create the dreary reality of a life that turned out not quite how you expected. Rabbit is a man at turns puzzled, the confident, then angry, then confused, but his emotions are never directed at himself. It is almost as though he is unable to analyse what lies within for fear that he will find something he doesn't like or - worse - nothing at all. When he acts, it is quick and unpredictable, but oddly, never out of character. Because he rarely internalises in the narrative, for the first half of the novel he is as much an enigma to us as he is to the other characters, but as the story develops, we begin to learn what makes him him, and while his actions never really lose that exciting touch of randomness, they always feel right in hindsight, justified. <br /> <br />While evading his marital responsibilities, Rabbit and his wife's priest, Jack Eccles, form an unequal friendship. The priest is there to save Rabbit, to return him to the fold, to where he should be, but it is clear that the young man is as unsure about his world as anybody else. He doubts himself, he doubts his God. It is interesting that Rabbit actually draws strength from this indecision, allowing him to help as he is helped. It is made very clear that if Eccles had of been secure in his faith and in himself, he never would have been able to relate to Rabbit. <br /> <br />When the novel was first printed, there was a lot of discussion about the overt, explicit sexuality of it. Forty years and more later, it is both difficult and easy to see why. Rabbit is a conscious sexual predator, an animalistic man who thinks about sex often, and loves women for being women. But today, that sort of outlook from a twenty-one year old man is not surprising, and is all but expected. Perhaps what still has the capacity to shock is his domination of women, his calm, measured attempts to make them submit - and they do. I can't help but wonder if that is another taboo that in a few decades will fade, just like the rest. <br /> <br />Eventually Rabbit returns to his wife, but not in a triumphant, 'all is resolved' plot twist at the end of the novel. No, Updike does not take the easy way out, instead reuniting the pair a little over halfway through. And for what? A birth. His wife Janice is pregnant, to a little girl they name Rebecca. The events immediately preceding Rabbit's return to his wife are both sad and delicate, happy and horrifying. <br /> <br />There is one scene that deserves special mention. I won't reveal what it is so that the plot can remain a surprise, but I must mention its power, both on the novel, the characters, and the reader. It is an urgent scene, horrible in its inevitability. From the opening paragraph, it is clear what is going to happen, and the fact that we, the reader, knows about it, makes it all the more terrible. I cannot praise Updike's skill as an author in this particular section, and it is worth the price of admission alone. <br /> <br />To continue on that, Updike is an amazing wordsmith. He captures the unfriendly reality of everyone's life with ease. Only rarely dipping into lengthy sentences and almost never using literary tricks, Updike keeps his sentences short and sharp, his metaphors clear and crisp. Yet he never strays from what is real. Nobody is 'luminously beautiful', instead we have, 'Her hair in sunlight sprays red, brown, gold, white, and black across her pillow. Smiling with relief, he gts up on an elbow and kisses her solid slack cheek, admires its tough textures of pores.' In those two sentences, we are introduced to both the beauty and the reality of this sleeping woman, and it is wonderful. Throughout, Updike concentrates on reality, never fancifying or making a scene glib because he can. For every positive a character reveals, he shows us a - not a negative, never - but a neutral, a real, a grey. If a character was perfect, why would we care? <br /> <br />The ending was, unfortunately, a little confused, and I am uncertain as to how he could have extended the story of Rabbit to three more books. However, based on every page, every sentence, every word that Updike used to create his marvellous narrative, I am convinced that he can pull it off. He was only twenty-nine when he wrote this book, but there is a wisdom and sensitivity throughout that many never touch - truly a stunning author.	2004-11-09
US	30652561	R1NTFT10KN4VOE	0312422180	713832506	The Time of Our Singing: A Novel	Books	4	4	5	N	N	The Time of Our Singing	Jonah Strom has the voice of an angel. Classically trained, he is capable of lifting his audiences to heights they could not even dare to dream of. As a small child, hearing him sing was a cause for celebration, as an adult, the only valid response was to weep. There is, however, one small problem. Jonah is a half-cast, born of a black mother and a white father, a young adult during the time when America was at the height of racial tension and violence. <br /> <br />Three siblings. Jonah, the oldest and lightest, is the angelic singer. Joseph, a muddier cream, is the pianist, sometime singer, and the narrator of the story. And Ruth, darkest of the three, joins the Black Panthers, angry at the white world for what they have done to her people. Jonah and Joseph - or JoJo as their mother called them both - are musical prodigies, travelling the country and playing together to progressively larger audiences. They suffer the twin indignities of performing a dying music genre, and being the 'nice little Negro boys' who have 'risen above' their race to join the cultured whites. Jonah uses this as a platform to spring even higher in the musical world, constantly challenging himself to greater successes and risk. Joseph is a miserable man in search of an identity, unable to step out from under his enormously talented brother's shadow. <br /> <br />The Time of Our Singing weaves back and forth in time, though it does for the most part follow the linear progression of Joseph's life. We learn about the Strom parents, one coffee, one cream, two very different people together in a time where marriage between race is illegal in a third of the American states. The father, David, is largely oblivious to colour, losing himself in the pure world of mathematics. Delia Daley comes from a proud black family, one that has grown in respect and wealth over the generations by never giving in to how the white men expect them to be. They are united by a love of music, a love they pass on to their children, hoping that it can rise above the difficulties of colour and race. <br /> <br />As could be expected, the book is very musical. Metaphors are often musical; important scenes are described in terms of crescendo, libretto, tenor, piano, Bach. When the focus shifts from music, we are introduced to physics and time, the loves of the father. Powers is at his very best when he mixes the two disparate passions, creating sentences, paragraphs and whole scenes that move effortlessly from D Minor to non-Euclidean geometry. At times the effect stumbles as the mixed imagery fails to create a spark, but thankfully these times are rare, and for every mis-step, there are ten amazing sections, perfectly combining the heritage of Strom and Daley. <br /> <br />The plot quite often moves forward through dramatic scenes of great racial tension. Very early on, there is a lengthy scene describing the horrific beating and murder that a fourteen year old black boy suffered simply because he had the audacity to comment on the good looks of a white girl. In the space of a few pages, we go from a young, slightly cocky boy proud he has a girlfriend and happy to be alive to, 'The face is a melted rubber model, a rotting vegetable, bloated and dis-figured. Below the midline, there's nothing but a single flattened bruise.' The scene is shocking, brutal and sad, serving as an indication of some of the deeper themes running through the book. <br /> <br />The Strom boys - for young Ruth discovers the truth at an early age - must learn that no matter how well they can sing, how high their voices can soar, in the end, they are nothing more than a black slave in a white world. Jonah, when he finally, truly understands, flees to Europe where classical music has not yet died and where colour isn't as much of an issue. Joseph fades into obscurity for years, tinkling away on his piano in a tired Atlantic City bar, loved by a woman he does not love in return. <br /> <br />Powers is, for the most part, in complete control of his narrative, effortlessly creating a passage of deep insight, then a sentence of great technical proficiency, then a summarised page of such scope as to make other writers shied away. Unfortunately, these passages of genius are - perhaps too often - tinged with a 'look at me, I'm smart!' attitude. At times, this is forgivable, because Powers is very clever, both at the intricacies of classical music and time theory, and also has a deep insight into what makes people real. But then there are other sections that aren't as polished and sure, when the cocky smartness of his writing grates. I will say, however, that this negative aspect of his writing is one that is decreasing in percentage to the good writing with every new book he releases, something which certainly bodes well for the future. <br /> <br />Every character is believable and realised, though Ruth does suffer through most of the novel, first by being too young to make much of a splash, then by disappearing for hundreds of pages. Delia Daley and David Strom both come off as amazing people, brought together by a love so strong that all the different influences pushing them apart can't hope to touch. Joseph is the narrator, and it is into his mind that we are pushed the deepest. It is to Powers' credit that, although Jonah is the clear star of the family and the focus of the novels themes, Joseph remains an interesting and important character. So much so that when the two are separated, there is little reason to wonder what Jonah is doing with his angelic voice, because we'd all rather watch Joseph fumble with the realities of his life. <br /> <br />Another unfortunate aspect of the novel is its length. It feels 150 pages too long, and almost all of that blame can be placed upon the ill-advised trip to Europe that Joseph undertakes on the behest of his brother. When this occurs, Joseph has mostly come to terms with himself and his failings, and all the Europe trip does is send him back to square one and waste our time. Throughout the novel a climax has been steadily building and this side journey does nothing to help it. <br /> <br />Happily, Powers handles the difficulties of a thematically race-based novel with great skill. The trials and tribulations of black against white and white against black is captured from many different view points with sensitivity and believability. It is interesting that we never really see a white person's perspective throughout the novel, rather, we are presented with the full spectrum of emotions - from anger to acceptance to defiance to denial - through various black characters. The easy way was certainly not chosen with this novel, and it shows. Not all of the black characters agree on what should happen to their race, how it should happen, or even when. <br /> <br />So in the end, what we have is a novel that tackles some pretty hefty themes, and for the most part succeeds in its aims. I can't help but think that a 400-page novel rather than a 600 would have presented the message in a better way, but what we have is still enjoyable, relevant, and very powerful.	2004-11-08
US	30652561	R3D8N3UT30Y1JY	0670032778	702279087	In the Shadow of Young Girls in Flower	Books	5	39	44	N	N	In the Shadow of Young Girls in Flower	For the second book of Proust's masterpiece, 'In Search of Lost Time', his attention turns away from the black and white realities of childhood to the greyer realms of adolescence, and with that, the deep, burning sensation of unrequited love. In essence, the second book is a 530-page essay on the different forms of young love, from deep obsession to airy neglect, from the savage loneliness of rejection to the dizzying heights of a love returned. <br /> <br />The book is split into two rough sections, the first of which is called 'At Mme Swan's'. Here we are introduced to Gilberte, Proust's first great love. The feelings he harbour's for her are ridiculously exaggerated, and oh so reminiscent of most people's teenage years. Every action, every word, every glance is analysed, studied, explored for meaning and intent. If, one day, Gilberte invites him to tea, the implications and potential meanings behind the invitation are debated internally for pages. If not, then even more pages are spent examining the pit of despair that Proust' soul fall in to. On top of this unhealthily obsessive love, we have his infatuation with Mme Swan, Gilberte's mother. There is almost a sense that Proust loves Gilberte because she is his age and he 'should' love her, whereas his affection towards Odette Swan is more real because there is no obligation or pressure from anyone, but less likely because she is twenty years older than him, and married. <br /> <br />When Proust's love for Gilberte is over - as it inevitably must, in those tender years of a boy or girl's life - the terrifying lows to which his emotions descend is as remarkable as the highs of his spirit not twenty pages previous. He obsessively analyses the ways in which he will get revenge, plotting to make her love him again, just so that he can reject her, to let her know how it feels. He tortures himself emotionally, visiting Mme Swan and purposely avoiding Gilberte. <br /> <br />What we have in this first part is a fascinating study on the tormented, melodramatic loves of early adolescence. Proust is too young at this stage to understand that love may not be forever, and can speak only in grandiose, exaggerated terms. If not for the fact that the prose is written with such grace and intelligence, his despair would come across as teenage angst at its very blackest. <br /> <br />In the second part of the novel, 'Place-Names: The Place', Proust and his grandmother retire to the beach to aid in the recuperation of his body and mind. Always a frail child, the rigours of new love have taken their toll on the young man. He rejects love, deciding that he shall become a writer once more, a passion that he had denied himself when his love for Gilberte had seemed so real and assured. He is introduced to a variety of characters which, we are told during the narrative, will come to play a great part in his later life: Robert de Saint-Loup, the Baron de Charlus and of course Albertine. <br /> <br />It is in this second section that Proust falls under the shadows of young girls in flower. He meets a group of girls, a 'gang' he calls them, and befriends first one, then all of them, reasoning that out of four or five girls, at least one would be worthy of love. Keeping with the true spirit of adolescence, he falls in and out of love with them all, needing only a stray glance or a casual smile to move from one girl to the other. Only two of them, Albertine and Andree, seem to return his emotions, and even then, everything remains chaste. <br /> <br />Interspersed throughout, we have long, insightful remarks on what love can do to the body, to the mind, and to the relationships we have with other people. Speaking as a male recently finished with his teenage years, I can say that Proust has captured the depth of feeling, the obsessiveness, the surety that everything in the universe will be perfect if only the love is returned, the electric thrill of acceptance, the deep darkness of rejection with such skill that perfection is a word that springs to mind. <br /> <br />Other topics are touched on throughout the novel. Early on, Proust is introduced to an author he holds in high esteem, one Bergotte. He is crushed upon discovering that the man does not exactly coincide with the image he had created while reading Bergotte's books, and ruminates on the fact that a man need not display the same intelligence and wit in reality as he does on the page. We must all focus our attention on achieving either a great reality or a great fiction, for Bergotte, his attentions were focused upon the fiction, and his personality and demeanour when interacting with flesh and blood people suffer. For Proust, it is an introduction to the idea that people can have two - or more - identities, and that a certain one is presented to a certain group of people. <br /> <br />The writing is, of course, typical Proust. Sentences are long, paragraphs are longer, and not very much happens. Dialogue is scarce, action scarcer. The reader is there to observe Proust's thoughts, not to use him as a mirror to the world he inhabits. Luckily for us, Proust's thoughts are never dull or boring. He says early on in the novel, 'For genius lies in reflective power and not in the intrinsic quality of the scene reflected', and Proust's reflective power more than reveal the truth of this maxim.	2004-11-03
US	30652561	R2R06N2B2CPGX3	0679748261	74645873	Goodbye, Columbus : And Five Short Stories (Vintage International)	Books	4	19	19	N	N	Goodbye, Columbus	Goodbye, Columbus is a coming of age story, a summer romance between a poor boy and a wealthy girl. Many themes that were to show up in much more detail in his later works are presented in embryonic form in this novella, his first major work. Being Jewish in America, sex, class boundaries, the American Way: All Roth subjects, all handled with intelligence and compassion. <br /> <br />Neil is the typical poor Jewish boy enamoured with Brenda, the classy, self-assured, rich girl. He shows a rare spark of confidence when he calls her for a date after first meeting her at a swimming pool, when she accepts and they meet, he finds that he really doesn't know what to do from there. But, they bumble through the beginnings of a relationship, mutually attracted physically, diametrically opposed socially. Neil has a few 'poor' ideas and thoughts that Brenda cannot relate to, while she accepts such luxuries as a maid or 'getting her nose fixed' with such ease and complacency that we - and Neil - are amazed. Over the summer, their relationship develops further, with the typical ups and downs of love colouring the journey. <br /> <br />Neil is the 'I' character of the story, and it is through his point of view that we watch the story unfold. However, even though the story is in first person, there is never much of his personality revealed through contemplative thought or reflection. Instead, we learn who he is from the way he interacts with Brenda and others, and from the way he studies the events in which he is involved. By the end of the novella, we (mostly) understand his motives and ideas, and though, admittedly, it is a little difficult to imagine Neil existing outside the scope of the novel, that actually plays into the theme of the story. Neil is searching for meaning, for a reason to keep on existing, and he considers that in Brenda, he has found it. Whether this is true or not becomes a large focus in the novel, particularly when, later on, she repeatedly reveals to himthat she is in fact her own person, with her own ideas, and that sometimes they won't mesh with his. <br /> <br />Brenda, on the other hand, remains a complete mystery to both the reader and Neil. Because we are never allowed to see her thoughts, and because her and Neil have such a different social background, she is someone who we try to understand, but inevitably fail. At times, Neil will say or do something and she will become upset, or tender, or both, and Neil will be so confused that he simply accepts. This can be frustrating for the reader, because Brenda is an appealing character, and it would be nice for him to have the gumption to search deeper within her for meaning and thought, but unfortunately he rarely does. Interestingly, this doesn't come off so much as a failing on Roth's part as an author, but Neil's as a character. <br /> <br />As stated above, the typical themes and ideas that Roth was to develop more fully in his later works are present here. There is the same easy insight into the mundane reality of life, and the same simple joy in, say, eating a piece of fruit or swimming in a pool. Goodbye, Columbus is a story that focuses on one single idea, that being the summer romance between two people that could not have a relationship in any other situation, and it explores it in a remarkably fulfilling way. Admittedly, the very Jewish quality of the writing and ideas may not be as identifiable for a non-Jewish person, but speaking as a man of no faith, I didn't find it to be all that much of a problem. Also, the casual racism towards African-Americans may be off-putting, but again, it didn't upset the flow of the novel. <br /> <br />To conclude, what Roth has done here is to introduce himself as an author, and for a twenty-six year old, it is an impressive introduction. Having read other works of his, I would recommend it as a good starting point. If you like Goodbye, Columbus - and I am quite certain everyone would - then you will love his later works. If not, not. And at only 140 pages, it is worth everyone's time to check out.	2004-10-31
US	30652561	R3CVSYZ8SWF8TI	0156001314	444581246	The Name of the Rose: including the Author's Postscript	Books	4	18	18	N	N	The Name of the Rose	The year is 1327. A young novice, Adso, and his respected master, Brother William, are invited to an ancient abbey in Italy to discover the truth behind a curious suicide - or murder? - that has recently taken place. On top of this, two rival clerical factions, debating the legitimacy of a vow of poverty, are soon to be arriving at the abbey, and William's learned opinion is requested. <br /> <br />We view the unfolding events through the somewhat naive eyes of Adso. He is a youth plagued with the natural doubts and desires that afflict most every teenager, and on top of this, as the number of murders mount and the political intrigue heightens, he must tackle what seems to be an evil force of destruction, perverting the seven trumpets of the lord, and comes to terms with the not-so-perfect realities of life as a monk. There are times when Adso is unable to handle the unfolding events, retreating into visions and dreams, and occasionally breaking down. William is a strong guide, helping the young man face the realities that we all must face eventually - that our elders are not always our betters. <br /> <br />The murders take place at roughly one a day, each one more gruesome than the last. William and Adso are able to figure out that the murders all seem to be connected with the abbey's library, one of the richest and oldest in the Western world at the time. But unfortunately, the library is off-bounds, as per the abbot's instructions, and even when they do manage to enter the forbidden areas, the library reveals itself to be a labyrinth, filled with danger, mystery and knowledge. <br /> <br />Because we are viewing events 'as Adso', the young novice is a fairly passive character. He serves mostly to bounce questions off William so that the wise brother can solve the various puzzles he faces. William is an extremely intelligent man, able to solve difficult riddles with apparent ease, and we hold him in as much awe as does young Adso. Of course, the downside to thisis that we, as the readers, are along for the ride, rather than helping to discover the mysteries for ourselves. <br /> <br />Which raises another problem. Eco is obviously a very intelligent man. Too many authors, writing in medieval times, 'cheat' by either poorly researching the times in which they are writing, or they gloss over places and events. Not so with Eco. He has an intimate knowledge of the time in which he is writing, and he is not afraid to share it with us. Whole chapters will be little more than history lessons, as we watch the Catholic churches in the final throes of its great power. Passages in Latin are casually thrown about by the narrator and the characters, and are not translated. Also, many of the logical puzzles are based heavily around obscure writings and scriptures, which has the unfortunate consequence that, unless you possess a Master's of medieval history, you will never figure the mysteries out on your own. Which, in a lesser author, might be a problem, but Eco manages to walk the fine line of intelligent writing and 'look at me, I am smart' literary boasting. We know he is smart, but we feel as though we are being warmly introduced to the knowledge he has, not beaten over the head with it. Adso functions as a fantastic foil for this sort of writing, as he is nearly as ignorant as we would be. Without the careful explanations of Brother William, we would both be lost. <br /> <br />The sub-plot dealing with the political intrigues of the church are very interesting, but unfortunately, they at times distract from the main story. It is quite possible to be so caught up in the debate on whether Jesus was poor or not that the murders piling up are forgotten, and when they return, with the requisite young monk screaming about the halls, it can seem forced. But at the same time, were these sections to be removed, the novel would suffer from not creating a full enough picture of fourteenth century Catholic life. <br /> <br />The ending is satisfying, and not entirely impossible to guess - though for perhaps the wrong reasons as those that William reasons - but again the problem of Eco's use of obscure medieval terminology and culture raises its head. For us, there can be no shared satisfaction in capturing the villain together, rather, we must sit back and congratulate William on his wisdom. <br /> <br />The main negative of the novel - Eco's intelligence - should not really be viewed too harshly. He is smart, and he does let us know that, but we are welcomed, not rejected for being ignorant. It is a delight to read the intelligent, witty conversations between monks who are extremely knowledgeable in their fields, and perhaps we can learn from that. And happily, through Adso, the comfortingly human, young and naive character, we are able to see this world with fresh eyes, and to be introduced to it rather than closed off.	2004-10-25
US	30652561	RIL7XHC8NE8QT	0879514256	757042144	Titus Groan (Gormenghast Trilogy)	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Titus Groan	Castle Gormenghast is a monstrous edifice, steeped in ritual and decay. The seventy-sixth Earl of Groan, Sepulchrave Groan, follows the intricate customs of his daily life; he is the embodiment of Groan, the black heart of the castle. Today, his son, the seventy-seventh Earl of Groan is born. <br /> <br />And so opens the first book of The Gormenghast Trilogy. More books were planned after the third, but the fourth remained unfinished and however many else there would have been were not even begun after Peake's mental breakdown and subsequent removal from the world of literature. The Trilogy has, some fifty years after first publication, attained a legendary status within the realms of fantasy, and after reading this first book, it is not hard to see why. <br /> <br />The characters in the novel are few, and the action is almost entirely located within the dark walls of Gormenghast. Thanks to the oppressive, slightly mad nature of the castle, each of the characters has a quirk, or an oddity that makes them stand out, enhancing the oppressive nature of the story. No character is completely normal - in fact most of them are caricatures of a particular emotion or fault - but because of the rigidity and monstrosity of Gormenghast - a point that is rammed home at every possible occasion - we can accept this. Thus Flay's character being little more than of mix of Devotion and Taciturn with a dash of Creaky Knees, we are able to identify and even feel sympathetic with the pathetic man. Fuschia, the neglected and only daughter of Groan, is teenage-angst personified, but again, thanks to the skill and grace with which Peake writes, we are able to look past these stereotypes and instead appreciate the characters for who they are. As the story unfolds, we are allowed deeper into the minds of the primary characters, and while they never really stray from the broad strokes with which they are initially painted, they do develop and grow, the plain shades of archetype deepening tothe lush hues of characterisation. <br /> <br />Peake has an exceptional talent with words. Sentences and whole paragraphs are marvels of literary concentration. While writing Titus Groan, it is clear that he picked a primary theme - despondency, oppression, darkness - and these unhappy emotions cover the narrative like a dark, heavy cloak. Yet - and herein lies his skill - the writing never degenerates into third rate, melodramatic angst. It always manages to remain of a very high quality. Peake is an author who manages to capture the sick beauty of darkness with grace. <br /> <br />The story involves the first few years of Titus Groan's life. In the steady, unending ritual of Gormenghast life, the birth of a new Groan is a major event, and this sets the castle in motion. Perhaps unused to change, the characters are slowly presented with an increasing number of new and dramatic events, and some of the stalwarts are unable to handle such times. Steerpike, a young upstart - in every sense of the word - takes advantage of the events at Gormenghast, insinuating his way up through the ranks of the major servants and minor Groan family members with horrifying efficiency. While his story is not resolved within the first book, it is clear that the cunning young man will play an important part in the trilogy. <br /> <br />What Peake has created with the first book of his trilogy is a crumbling edifice of decay and torment, a monstrous, dark epic that is harrowing in its beauty. While the genre of fantasy may turn off literary purists - I myself had trouble at first - there is really no excuse for not plunging yourself into the disturbing halls of Gormenghast.	2004-10-18
US	30652561	RW1XAC5OFSM2B	0805210407	377046405	The Trial	Books	4	7	9	N	N	The Trial	On his thirtieth birthday, Joseph K wakes up to find that two men are waiting for him in the living room, and that he is under arrest. They won't tell him why he is under arrest, what he has done, under what authority he is being charged, or how to do anything about it. The two men joke at him while eating their breakfast, telling him that it doesn't really matter if he is arrested or not. K is understandably confused by all of this, considering it to be all one big joke arranged by his fellow boarders and friends. <br /> <br />The two warders take him to the Inspector, who explains the details of K's arrest. Again, K is more confused and repelled by all this discussion, not taking what he is being told seriously, treating the three men with no small contempt. He considers that in the country he lives, which has many laws to make certain that people are free and justly treated, such a thing as an arrest without a reason could never happen. <br /> <br />As the story progresses, K goes to court, where he makes an impassioned plea against the absurdity of the proceedings. He is told that what he did will only hurt his case, that he is behaving foolishly. K comes to meet various layers of Court officials; all of them appear to him to be petty and small, without power or influence over anything but themselves, and, it seems, him. He acquires an Advocate who works hard for him, toiling long into the night, for no benefit that K can see. Indeed, it seems that no matter what he - or anyone - does for his case, nothing is progressing, and nothing will ever progress. The Court system is designed to keep people occupied, to shuffle them around endless layers of bureaucracy, where every small step is made insignificant by the unknown thousands of steps still to go. <br /> <br />Joseph K is a not particularly sympathetic character. On the one hand, there is the natural sympathy that comes from a seemingly innocent man being arrested. On the other, K is curt, rude, governed by passions difficult to identify with, and since he considers everything to be an elaborate joke (at least at first), he can be quite flippant. This is unfortunate, but is also a staple of Kafka's characterisations. K will often react violently or out of proportion to an event, for example, when given a minor rebuke by a minor official, he would fall into a rage and start banging walls. So to for other characters in the story. Most of the time, this came across as extremely improbable, but oddly, it didn't exactly detract from the story. Because it was such a surreal experience for Joseph K, these massive outburst of emotion - usually negative - were understandable. <br /> <br />Another point worth nothing is the treatment of females in this book. Throughout, they fall into one of two categories. They are either shrivelled up old sticks of women, pathetic and ineffectual, such as K's boarder, or they are young girls who all but fling themselves at K for no reason whatsoever. One girl about halfway through the novel, after knowing K for an hour - and during this hour he was verbally rude to her and almost physically violent, she sits on his lap, caresses his hand and declares her undying love for him. And she is not the only one. I found this handling of female characters to be extremely uncomfortable. Not once was any woman portrayed in a positive light, even when she loved someone, it was a shallow, stupid love, or at least it was as described by K. <br /> <br />But the story is the most important part of the novel, and this story is near perfect. Kafka captures the essence of a man unjustly arrested with great skill. There is a feeling of claustrophobia all throughout the novel, very often we are left in the dark, just like K, searching for answers to a question that we haven't even been given. Adding to the claustrophobic feel, the paragraphs are very long and very dense, it feels as if there is no escape from the great big walls of text. Speech is not usually brokenup into paragraphs, which adds to the feelings. Whatever else his flaws, Kafka was a master of creating atmosphere and mood, and The Trial is one of the better examples of this.	2004-10-13
US	30652561	R2K5YFQ37XCIHB	0156439611	466126836	If on a Winter's Night a Traveler	Books	5	4	4	N	N	If on a Winter's Night a Traveller	If on a Winter's Night a Traveller opens with a familiar scene. You are sitting down, reading a book just bought from a bookstore. Which book? Why, it's If on a Winter's Night a Traveller! And 'you' are the main character - the Reader - gradually becoming comfortable in your chair, immersing yourself in the story. <br /> <br />With such an interesting beginning, it is difficult not to be intrigued. Unfortunately, the full text for Calvino's novel is not available, and the burgeoning story breaks. We, the reader, are frustrated, but Calvino has thoughtfully supplied us with the beginning of another novel, and then another, and another...each story very, very compelling, each one breaking off just before the mounting tension of the carefully crafted build-up peaks. Chapters are alternating between 'you' the reader searching for the missing ends of the books, and the beginnings of the books themselves. <br /> <br />Each 'new' novel seems to build upon the themes of the previous, that is, themes of truth and reality, and the inherent flaws in our beliefs of these two fundamentals. Recursion plays a heavy part throughout, we are pulled deeper into stories that are completely, absolutely different on the surface, but deep down, at their core, it is the same story, or an extension of the previous, or a beginning to the last. The novel reaches its height of confusion when the 'normal' chapters of the reader searching for the novel begin to interact with the snippets of books found, but it is here where Calvino is able to pose the most difficult questions. He prods at our ideas of the reality around us, and the subjectivity of truth, and there is little we can do but nod and smile as we are taken on this metaphysical journey. <br /> <br />Calvino's writing style is hard to pin down. The different novels are from authors scattered all over the world: Japanese, Spanish, Italian, more. He also inserts a few made-up nationalities. Because of this, the novels are written in verydifferent ways. They are almost samples of that cultures literature. A recurrent theme is that of 'awareness'. The characters always seem to know that they are characters in a story, and act accordingly. They mentally discuss plots points and actions, observing that it is of a benefit to the story that they do such an action or talk to such a person. This is a refreshing and interesting approach, and helps ensnare the reader - or the Reader - within the tightening plot. The sections where 'Calvino' is talking to 'you' are for the most part written in a familiar, intelligent style. At times 'you' seem to be governing the narration, at others, Calvino. <br /> <br />While the novel may sound very confusing - and occasionally it can be - there is a very great pay off. Too often with post-modern novels there is a tendency to leave the conclusion to the reader, or for the point of the novel to be that there is no point. Not so with this book. Halfway through we are aware of what the point is, three quarters of the way we fully understand, appreciate and agree with the ideas behind it, and by the end, on the second or third last page, we are left in absolute awe at Calvino's genius as he brings everything together in a way that is so absolutely perfect and right, there could be no other logical resolution. He gives us the ending and the closure that we deserve and that the book demands. It is almost as though he has told us a Truth, one that we always knew before, but he had to explicitly show us first. And I am glad he did.	2004-10-12
US	30652561	R2IZS207IEW37C	0060803177	840557570	Eyeless in Gaza	Books	4	17	18	N	N	Eyeless in Gaza	Eyeless in Gaza is both a character study and a contemplation on the important issues of life that everyone must either spend time considering, or consciously ignore in favour of the easy pleasures. The two very different main characters and forever shifting time frame allow for clashing perspectives, immature and mature reasonings on familiar problems, and the comfortable, satisfying sensation that we 'know' everyone in the story. <br /> <br />Anthony Beavis is a man given to solitary thought. While he does occasionally succumb to his carnal desire, he has a marked distaste for intimacy, both physical and mental. He is the character we experience the most, from boarding school encounters with bullies to young adult relationships and middle-aged jaunts off to India to fill a hole in himself that he is only just realising exists. Diaries, essays, letters and 3rd-person narratives reveal the workings of Anthony's mind, and while he can be admired for his intellect and wit, he has a cowardly, almost shallow side to him that is distasteful to say the least. Any event requiring a high level of emotional commitment or of adult responsibility, he shirks from, making vague excuses to the people in his life who matter, or simply running away, metaphorical tail between his legs. <br /> <br />Helen is spontaneity incarnate, allowing herself every impulse that enters her head. She likes to test people, pushing them to the limits of their opinions, desires and manners. Her husband Hugh, she especially torments, making a very public event out of what should be a clandestine sexual relationship with Andrew - and others, while Hugh sits alone in his study, writing an ode to her but virtually unable physically consummate their relationship. <br /> <br />Huxley allows us to see these two people - and others - change from children with typically childish ideas and outlooks, into full grown adults. He is unflinching in showing us their deep, real flaws, but he allocates an equal amountof pages to their positive qualities. In essence, we are given a complete and accurate portrayal of two people. By the end of the novel, we can understand Helen's behaviour, and we know why Anthony so desperately wishes for a solitude of thought. <br /> <br />Parties and conversations are plentiful, and it is here that Huxley is able to show his character's - and by default, his - impressive depth of knowledge. Major and minor characters discuss deep philosophical question with ease, comment on the absurdities of social existence, discuss the previous and upcoming World War, and so on. While it is clear that Huxley's level of knowledge is perhaps greater than most of his readers, we are never made to feel inferior, that is, he is not writing 'smart' to impress the academics. Instead, we are able to enjoy the intelligent, witty conversations of the characters without feeling as though it is all flying high above our heads. <br /> <br />The rapidly changing year - one section will be 1914, the next, 1935, after that, 1924, and so on, are at first confusing, but soon fall into an easy rhythm. By using this technique, Huxley is able to foreshadow events extremely well, and a perhaps rounder picture of the character's are created as each layer of their personality is peeled back. <br /> <br />While Huxley could be considered a dry author, the book is a very enjoyable, clever read. There is an easy wit to it that is quite admirable. The characters - even the most horrid - are all identifiable and because of that, lovable. There are no huge plot twists or shocks, which may be off-putting for some people, but the book never tries to be what it isn't, instead relying on its strengths - fantastic characters.	2004-10-09
US	30652561	R2Q08UCDTDEGZF	0486268705	167266492	Dubliners (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Dubliners	Dubliners is Joyce's first paean to his native city, a quiet, gentle look at the peoples and places that make up the identify of Ireland. Through 15 short - some very short - stories, we are introduced to a wide variety of people, from sad schoolboys to priests to dried up old aunts to merry young women to carousing drunks, as they go about their lives. <br /> <br />The stories are presented more as brief snapshots of a man or woman's life, than as a complete story with a beginning, middle and end. Throughout, there is very little conflict, no bangs, no explosions, and no horrific or unexpected twists. Rather, we see a boy obsessively in love with a girl, or a man sad that a love he rejected years earlier has died, or a woman plotting with some friends to bring her husband back to the Catholic Church. Because of these mild plots, we are able to delve deep into each character, exploring what it means to be an Irish person at the starts of the twentieth century. <br /> <br />While not obviously connected, most of the stories have minor similarities in characters or references. Very often, a throwaway line concerning a previous or upcoming story will make its way on to the page, which serves to create a cohesive whole from the disconnected stories. And of course, the city of Dublin joins them all together into a great song. <br /> <br />The writing style is not typical Joyce. There are mild patches of density here and there, but for the most part everything is straight forward. Ulysses this is not. But instead of tackling the scope of that enormous work, Dubliners is more concerned with chronicling the daily activities of ordinary people. A Catholic background would make certain sections of the novel more enjoyable, but is by no means necessary. <br /> <br />What Joyce has done here is to create a certain mood for a city. While grim - or more accurately, poor - there is an undercurrent of joy, perhaps not for the events taking place, but for the people in the stories.We are presented with reality, unflinching, unapologetic reality. And it is beautiful.	2004-10-07
US	30652561	R1CECJU7CHFBJU	0765341611	554191539	Three Men in a Boat: To Say Nothing of the Dog (Tor Classics)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Three Men in a Boat	J. is a very sick man. To his horror one day, while reading a medical encyclopedia, he realises that he has every single disease, ailment and injury detailed in the book excepting housemaid's knee. At first he is a bit put out that he isn't suffering from that as well, but then the realisation hits him: He is the sickest man in the world and soon he will die. Fortunately, two friends, George and Harris, and of course Montmorency are all there to cheer him up and they decide to go boating. <br /> <br />Three Men in a Boat is portrayed as a sort of touristy travel novel, but it is so much more than that. J. is a hilarious narrator, constantly remembering past adventures or encounters that almost without fail end with a great punchline. He is a straight-faced absurdist, pointing out the casual failings of humanity to make sense, and this of course includes himself. <br /> <br />While the three man bumble about on their trip, sailing from place to place, J. thoughtfully fills us in on some of the history, colouring these sometimes dry patches with stories of his own, or of George or Harris. There is even the occasional story from the perspective of Montmorency, my favourite perhaps being his unfortunate encounter with a very mean, very large cat. <br /> <br />A problem at first with this book was that I, in my ignorance, was a bit unsure that a 19th century Englishman could be funny. Perhaps tainted by an echo of Victorian England, I was expecting dainty tea parties and self-deprecating foppery. I couldn't have been more mistaken. Jerome is a hugely funny author, and there were many times when I actually laughed out loud. But perhaps the greatest part of this novel is that, throughout the comedy, there is the more serious historical sections, and then, here and there, hidden away between a joke or seven, are quiet, contemplative passages that really hit home with some insights into people. <br /> <br />A fantastic read, and short, at only one hundred and fifty pages, itis highly recommended.	2004-10-04
US	30652561	RO3OVQ2V2O0JG	0811201880	942112163	Nausea (New Directions Paperbook)	Books	5	195	205	N	N	Nausea	With his first novel, Sartre began to explore what would later come to be known as existentialism, or the philosophy that: 'Holds that there is no intrinsic meaning or purpose, therefore it is up to each individual to determine his own meaning and purpose and take responsibility for his actions'. While this line of philosophical thought does have its origins in Kierkegaard, it was in the writings of Simone de Beauvoir, Albert Camus and Sartre that these ideas were fully developed. <br /> <br />Antoine Roquentin is a solitary man, recently afflicted with a recurrent feeling, one that he terms 'the Nausea'. At times, he feels that life is repugnant, a vapid, shallow game between mindless people who have no real idea of their own purpose or consequence, himself included. At first he dismisses these feelings as the typical lonely thoughts of an ageing academic who is unable to complete the book he has been researching for years, but as the feeling continues and he is able to examine himself with greater and greater clarity, Roquentin begins to learn that maybe he has stumbled upon one of the great truths of our reality. <br /> <br />He discovers that there is no essence, no importance in motion or in the petty labels that people like to attach to themselves and others in a bid to catalogue the world and everything in it, and by cataloguing, to control. He reasons that we are essentially impossible to control, that each person exists because they exist, and for no other reason that that. The terms of our existence are unspecific, but clear. We do not exist to be pawns to a god, or to move the path of humanity forward. Instead, we exist simply to exist, we are an end unto ourselves, and the inherent absurdity in our lives means that a meaningful existence is impossible and even blasphemous. Through clear-eyed, coherent thinking, we are able to control our lives as we choose, and it is up to every man and woman to independently reject suicide. For those that do not, the meaningless quality of our lives makes no different when compared to those that do, thus there is no dishonour or achievement in either. <br /> <br />During the novel, there are a few side stories involving an ex-lover and a child-molesting friend, but these characters are used mostly as foils for Sartre's philosophy. In presenting arguments to Roquentin, Sartre is able to adequately satisfy the objections to his philosophy. There is a sense, however, that while the elements of existentialism presented in Nausea are powerful and compelling, the picture is not yet complete and no real answers are given. Later on in his career, Sartre was able to provide a large number of these answers, but even this early on, with his first novel, the depth of his thinking and the power of his message is quite simply amazing. Nausea is a stunning book, an intellectual delight, and is recommended to all.	2004-10-03
US	30652561	R2W8ZXZ4DY64WW	067003245X	674102062	Swann's Way	Books	5	45	50	N	N	The Way by Swann's	With the famous dipping of the madeleine into his tea, Proust begins his fictional/auto-biographical journey through memory and time, alternately seeing his world through the eyes of a younger, more innocent Proust and the weary old man he has become. Random comments on people or places morph into paragraph- and page-long memories, coloured with the rosy tint of time and age, or not, as sometimes is the case. Throughout the novel we are generally confined to the time period of Proust's childhood, but the narrator is very loose with the time frame, effortlessly jumping back and forth through the memories of his boyhood, from the thrill of a mother's kiss to the beauty of flowers and grass along the way by Swann's.<br /><br />The writing is flowery and beautiful, with long, flowing sentences that seem to evoke places and times buried within us all. Proust is a master of mental imagery, and through the mostly universal experience of his childhood - and while the particulars will not be identical for us all, the thoughts and ideas certainly will - we are able to relive our own childhood, our own desires and dreams, our own gradual awakening and loss of innocence.<br /><br />While reading Proust, there is a sense that we have settled ourselves within his skin. The writing is so personal and intimate that we, for just a moment, become the little boy Proust, we share his feelings, we understand his pains. This can be uncomfortable at times, but the pleasure of such an intense journey far outweighs the 'warts and all' intimacy. While reading, it seems that nothing - not one thought or feeling - has been held back, and that Proust is willing and almost joyous at the prospect of baring his soul to the world in his six book masterpiece.<br /><br />Halfway through the first volume, there is a short novella describing one of his father's friends, Swann, and his jealous courtship of the woman who would later become his wife. The change from an intimate 'I' to a less personal 'he' is at first dis-orienting, but thanks to the strength of the writing, this worry is soon dispelled. Of course, by the end of the novel, the purpose of Swann's interlude has become clearer, and it can be imagined that later volumes will shed more light on these mysteries.<br /><br />There is not much to be said about Proust that hasn't been already, except that the sheer size and density of his work should not be an intimidating factor when reading. Take your time, be slow about it, and read him as the mood takes you. The rewards are there, on every single page, but they will also be there a year from now. And perhaps, when you are that one year older, the search for memory will be that much more desperate, and Proust's own search will be all the more rewarding.l 'he' is at first dis-orienting, but thanks to the strength of the writing, this worry is soon dispelled. Of course, by the end of the novel, the purpose of Swann's interlude has become clearer, and it can be imagined that later volumes will shed more light on these mysteries. <br /> <br />There is not much to be said about Proust that hasn't been already, except that the sheer size and density of his work should not be an intimidating factor when reading. Take your time, be slow about it, and read him as the mood takes you. The rewards are there, on every single page, but they will also be there a year from now. And perhaps, when you are that one year older, the search for memory will be that much more desperate, and Proust's own search will be all the more rewarding.	2004-10-03
US	30652561	R300JK8GC7YAV0	0140187073	638068452	JR (Penguin Twentieth-Century Classics)	Books	5	36	36	N	N	JR	On a school excursion to New York, a small group of eleven year old children are introduced to the American way of life.  A hurried business man, constantly on the phone or bothered by his secretary, gives a hasty explanation of the stock market, and what it means to 'purchase a piece of America'.  The children are suitably awed, especially when their excursion moves from theory to practise with the purchase of one stock from a communal kitty.   <br /> <br />One child, JR, is particularly enamoured with the whole process.  He asks complicated questions about futures, buybacks, depreciations, interest, tax write-offs and more, flustering and intriguing the man in charge of the tour around the company.  JR is so curious, in fact, that upon arriving home, he begins to study and plan ways to make his piece of America work for him.   <br /> <br />He meets up with Edward Bast, a struggling composer, and they strike a deal.  JR will be the thinking man of the operation, Bast - as an adult - will be the face of the company.  Soon, Bast is traveling back and forth from paper mill to Indian reserve to banquet to meeting room as JR creates an empire from 'worthless' stock and inventory obtained through mail order and telephone deals.  <br /> <br />JR is written almost entirely in dialogue.  People speak, radios chatter, conversations begin and end and trail off, some in the main focus of the novel, such as Rhoda and Bast's discussions in the increasingly cluttered apartment he lives in, some off to the side, little snippets finding their way into the book, shedding light on minor characters or putting a different perspective on what is currently happening.  Gaddis, as always, writes flawless dialogue that in no way reads like the 'perfect' diction of most novels, instead having trailing sentences, unfinished words and thoughts, and poor punctuation.  When speaking, a character is almost never identified, but through Gaddis' grasp of speech, it is generally pretty easy to tellwho is who and what is going on.  There are large paragraphs of description scattered about, but these generally serve as bookends to conversations between characters. <br /> <br />The novel JR is an extremely interesting look at the world of finance.  Seen through the eyes of the oblivious musician Bast, we are horrified as JR's empire grows and grows, always obeying the law, always being correct and accurate, but at the same time, perverting the true spirit of business and money.  Perhaps because he is eleven, JR is unable to see the companies he buys, sells, underwrites and reconstructs as actual tangible realities, the employees are little more than vast bottomless money pits in terms of salaries to him, and nothing is sacred.  He has no understanding of the realities of what he is accomplishing, all he is concerned with is, 'If you are going to play, play to win.'	2004-09-28
US	30652561	R32CGFLBRVQ0AJ	0375703845	939433309	Glamorama (Vintage Contemporaries)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Glamorama	Victor Ward is the It Boy of the New York modelling scene. He has a steady, super-model actress, an endless procession of equally beautiful women falling at his feet, a steady 'other woman', who also happens to be the fiance of his boss, an up and coming modelling career, easy access to drugs, alcohol and money, and thousands upon thousands of shallow, vapid celebrity friends. In Victor's world - and the world in which he circles - he is a King among Kings, one of the beautiful, perfect people we see on the covers of magazines and sometimes wish we could be like. <br /> <br />Not all is perfect, however. It is established pretty early on that Victor is a boor. He manages to (mostly) hide this from everyone with a facade of idle stupidity and the firm belief that everything is 'just cool'. Happily for him, the social circle he is involved with is just as shallow as he is, allowing him to rise to the top of an extravagant, ultra-glamorous group of people whose main concern is the next party, the next hit, the next affair, the next 'tragic' death. Gossip is the new bible. <br /> <br />A trip to England is required after an unfortunate turn of events involving his girlfriend, his mistress, and his boss, so Victor troddles off, puzzled by a few random events that had begun happening while he was still in New York. From here, the hazy confusion of the novel kicks in to full force. Victor, never an intelligent man to begin with, retreats into himself, creating - or is he? - a group of camera-men and a director to follow him around, seeing his reality as a series of camera shots and takes. By doing this, he is able to reject the more horrifying aspects of his life because it is 'all just a movie', a movie that unfortunately he never knows the script too. <br /> <br />In Europe, events become more intense. Through Victor's faulty 'movie-vision', we are introduced to more and more models, all of whom are vicious, brutal terrorists. Scenes of increasing violence are juxtaposedwith page-long sex scenes, most unnecessary. Victor's confusion grows, and everywhere he sees confetti. Towards the end of the novel, he is a blubbering, confused mess of a man; all he wants to do is return home to the shallow lifestyle he was used to. Here, in Europe, with people being killed or brutally tortured, he is unable to cope with the reality, a reality he is increasingly helping come into existence. <br /> <br />Ellis' satire perfectly captures the shallow, vapid lifestyle of the model world. Nothing is real, it is all ephemeral. Everyone loves each other until backs are turned. Everyone is a friend until the next drug rehab. Everyone is cool. Everyone is beautiful. Victor, a shallow, stupid, vapid blob of ego, is the culmination of such a social group. Through his very confused eyes, we watch the world he knows disintegrate around him while all he can do is seek refuge in the world cool.	2004-09-01
US	30652561	R2VYM770405661	1400030382	321194841	The Piano Tuner	Books	3	9	9	N	N	The Piano Tuner	Edgar Drake is a quiet, introverted piano tuner living in nineteenth century England. He is considered one of the best in the field, and is an expert on Erard's, a particularly expensive and intricate style of piano. Following a short, hurried letter from Surgeon-Major Anthony Carroll to the British Army, he is located and commissioned by the army to travel to the remote village of Mae Lwin to tune the piano that was just as hastily requested a few months previous. Edgar accepts the mission, journeying to the unfamiliar lands of Burma for reasons that he is not entirely sure are accurate. Once there, he realises that the scanty information given before he left in no way illuminated the intricacies of the British occupation, and some difficult choices must be made. <br /> <br />This is Mason's first novel, and as such there are a number of amateurish errors throughout the novel. Perhaps in a private piece this would be acceptable, but in a published work, the reader putting down his money deserves better. A group of passengers are describe as boring one paragraph, then extraordinary a few later, with accompanying stories. People reveal secrets and motives to Edgar with little or no prompting. Many times, letters and communication is used to provide largely unnecessary background information, and too often, these begin with the words, 'As you may already know...', a phrase which any basic-level writing instructor will tell you is an absolute no-no when writing. Also, the treacheries and betrayals in the end of the novel are ridiculous and contrived, seeming almost to be a way out for an inexperienced novelist who has written himself into a corner. <br /> <br />There are moments of beauty in Mason's writing, however. Lush passages are devoted to the peoples and environments of India and Burma, vibrant, rich sentences that evoke a time and place probably unfamiliar to a lot of people. Much folk-lore and history is revealed to the reader, all of it interesting, though atleast half suffers from being presented in letter form. One wishes that the author would have spent the time to refine his writing so that these wonderful stories could have been introduced in a more natural manner. As it is, those parts sometimes read like encyclopedias or textbooks, coming off as unnecessary additions to both pad out the novel's length and wow the reader with the author's depth of research. A particularly glaring error in this vein is the multiple-page exposition on the history of Erard piano's, a completely unnecessary waste of space. <br /> <br />The characters, too, lack anything to make them memorable. Edgar, the main character, never spends the time to analyse his own thoughts and feelings, and thus we are left cold. When he falls in love with Mae Lwin and the people in the village, it is difficult to understand why, because we have seen no growth within his character. The love story is equally simplistic and requires a too-large suspension of disbelief. There are only really three characters of note within the novel, and by the end of it, two of them have been rendered so confusing due to poor pacing and plot, that it is difficult to feel attached to anybody. <br /> <br />Various literary techniques are strewn throughout the novel, often in a haphazard manner. Tenses are changed mid-paragraph, the narrative moves from third person to first as it wills, and the point of view character often changes at the very last sentence of a chapter or section so as to add more weight to Edgar's clumsy fumblings through this alien world. There is a curious sense that, had Mason spent the time to put more stylistic techniques in the novel, it would have actually worked, but since he did not, the addition is yet another nail in the coffin. Very much a case of not enough but far too much, the same could unfortunately be said of the entire novel. While there are passages of great beauty, and while the novel is interesting simply because it describes so wella place unfamiliar to so many, beyond this, there is not much to recommend. A well-written history of Burma would be more enjoyable, much more informative, and not need to worry about an artificial plot with the requisite 'shocking' plot twists that so many novels rely on.	2004-08-29
US	30652561	R10AU1E9MZC0Z5	0451526562	365726027	A Tale of Two Cities (Signet Classics)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	A Tale of Two Cities	A Tale of Two Cities is Dickens' vision of the French Revolution, a character drama given much extra weight by the enormous social, political and economic upheavals that were happening in France in the late eighteenth century. While the beginning of the novel is languorous and meandering, skipping half-decades and years as it sees fit, the end of the novel focuses upon the tumultuous time in Paris when the citizens took back the reins of power from the aristocracy. Because of this, there is an undercurrent of danger and urgency that perfectly matches the danger and urgency of the main plot, as Charles Darnay's heritage is revealed and his fate is sealed while his horrified wife and father look on, impotent.<br /><br />Because of the sheer magnitude that is the backdrop to a Tale of Two Cities, it is easy to forget the quiet, measured conversations of the main characters and focus upon the brief episodes of carnage, confusion, destruction and death, scattered throughout the novel as the Revolution picks up speed, decimating the lives of everyone involved - peasant and aristocrat alike. Whole chapters are a cacophony of sounds, actions, weapons and blood, in the reading, it is almost as though the reader themselves are lost within the time period described, fighting alongside the men in the streets, knowing only what they know, but realising it in the full, deadly detail that such an occasion. demands.<br /><br />Lucie Manette, a young British woman, has found her father years after he disappeared - presumed dead. They re-unite and he is a vague, confused shell of the man she knows only through the stories of Mr Lorry, a banker. But the goodness of her love is enough to win his mind back, and the two are re-united properly. She eventually marries and has a child, then the Revolution begins and her husband, Charles Darnay, the man who swore on his wedding day to Dr Manette never to reveal his secret to his wife, is recalled back to Paris to account and atone for the mistakes of his family. Another friend, Sydney Carton, a lonely, self-deprecating but brilliant lawyer who wants more than anything else to share in the rainbow of love that Lucie offers to Charles, travels to Paris as well.<br /><br />In Paris, Madame Defarge and her husband, important elements in the Revolution, live their lives peacefully and quietly, all the while plotting for the eventual success of the 'common man' against their oppressors. Her heritage is linked inextricably with Darnay - at least in her mind - and it is through these two families - one in England, one in France - that the story unfolds.<br /><br />When not exploding into violent prose concerning the endless bloodshed in Paris, Dickens is content to have his characters slowly wander through life, stopping often for leisurely conversations and lofty ruminations. Even towards the end, the scenes which are played out seem so minor when compared to the calamity around them, and yet, at the same time, are indicative of the world in which they live. In all bloody times, there are intimate family dramas being played out, some more or less significant, but all important to those involved.<br /><br />Throughout the novel, subtly, the guillotine is deified and the sweet rustling of Lucie Manette's dresses fade away into the background as the symbols of war become more important than the people. This is perhaps one of the most important themes in the book, and one that is well and truly made evident by the end. In the final few scenes, in which one of the characters make a heroic, unbelievably sad sacrifice for his friends - who, even sadder, do not appreciate or even realise, some of them - an important statement is made, a poetic song to the unspoken stories of war is sung: That the people are, as always, more important than impossibly epic events happening around them, and that once this is forgotten, as it inevitably is, then the cause is lost, and everyone suffers.e mistakes of his family. Another friend, Sydney Carton, a lonely, self-deprecating but brilliant lawyer who wants more than anything else to share in the rainbow of love that Lucie offers to Charles, travels to Paris as well. <br /> <br />In Paris, Madame Defarge and her husband, important elements in the Revolution, live their lives peacefully and quietly, all the while plotting for the eventual success of the 'common man' against their oppressors. Her heritage is linked inextricably with Darnay - at least in her mind - and it is through these two families - one in England, one in France - that the story unfolds. <br /> <br />When not exploding into violent prose concerning the endless bloodshed in Paris, Dickens is content to have his characters slowly wander through life, stopping often for leisurely conversations and lofty ruminations. Even towards the end, the scenes which are played out seem so minor when compared to the calamity around them, and yet, at the same time, are indicative of the world in which they live. In all bloody times, there are intimate family dramas being played out, some more or less significant, but all important to those involved. <br /> <br />Throughout the novel, subtly, the guillotine is deified and the sweet rustling of Lucie Manette's dresses fade away into the background as the symbols of war become more important than the people. This is perhaps one of the most important themes in the book, and one that is well and truly made evident by the end. In the final few scenes, in which one of the characters make a heroic, unbelievably sad sacrifice for his friends - who, even sadder, do not appreciate or even realise, some of them - an important statement is made, a poetic song to the unspoken stories of war is sung: That the people are, as always, more important than impossibly epic events happening around them, and that once this is forgotten, as it inevitably is, then the cause is lost, and everyone suffers.	2004-08-25
US	30652561	R1IB52RQV228N2	0802139590	179693822	Gould's Book of Fish	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Gould's Book of Fish: A Novel in Twelve Fish	One day a young man discovers a strange book, a Book of Fish, written by the convict, William Beulow Gould, as he waits in solitary confinement for the day of his hanging after being convicted of, among many other things, murder. The book is written in all different colours and styles, with pages running into one another, when the author finished writing on the last page, he picked up again on the first, continuing the story between the gaps of the previous words. The young man - Sid Hammet - after a series of minor adventures involving the true identity of Gould - accidentally loses the book. But his mind cannot escape the wonders he read inside, so he decides to recreate the book as he remembers it. Thus begins the true meat of the story, a rollicking, picaresque adventure set on Sarah Island, a destitute, disgusting, decadent mess of an island, only a square mile in area, but filled to the brim with the worst convicts of the early stages of Australia's life. <br /> <br />Flanagan writes with vivid flair, scenes seeming to jump off the page and into the mind with consummate ease. The memorable characters were very much brought to life, while the throwaway men and women used to advance the story were exactly that: forgettable and poorly created. If we consider, however, that Gould is an artist and forger, an adventurer of the high sort, given to Villainy wherever it takes him, but ever happy, a criminal Candide, always looking on the bright side of things, then we can forgive this slip as a stylistic device rather than a weakness of the author. Gould is a perfectly realised character, and nowhere does the narration slip, or the author's true voice show through. Gould has a few stylistic tics that help to further create him as a person, replacing 'and' with '&', running words together and chopping them apart. <br /> <br />Thanks to a mis-spent childhood in a monastery, Gould is knowledgeable and confident in the classic literary works of his time and the ancients, sprinkling references liberally throughout his writings. Also, it seems as though many of the people he comes across in his flashbacks were actually rather famous - or more accurately, became famous after associating with him. Keats and Thomas De Quincy come to mind, among others. Many of these references are noticeable, but quite a few were obscure, as though a sly wink to those readers paying attention. <br /> <br />As the story progresses, a narrative pattern forms. The story progresses in waves; first, there is the build-up, where a future plot point is alluded to, then the rising crescendo as the tension mounts and Gould foreshadows both the event in question and the aftermath, using epic, dramatic language to heighten anticipation. Lastly, there is the inevitable crashing of the wave as the event enters into actuality and does not live up to the hype created. Gould is never revealed as a liar, more as a man who cannot separate the idea of what should happen to what actually did happen. His twin talents of painting and forgery - though it should be noted that both really only extend to fish - spill over into his life. Bright, vibrant colours and used to create scenery, people, places, but in the end, they are revealed to be nothing more than a cheap knock-off. This technique works very well, which is perhaps surprising, and it should be noted that the very last page, the afterword, is absolutely essential to the novel and makes everything click - something which, before reading the afterword, didn't seem necessary, but afterwards, changed the entire meaning of what came before. <br /> <br />While perhaps this work isn't a 'work of genius', as the front cover of the book attests, it is certainly an imaginative, evocative work that, thanks to the strengths of the imagery and of the characters, especially the narrator, stays in your mind long after the last page has been turned and the final words are read.	2004-08-22
US	30652561	RONY5UMVK3K4E	0312187548	613949143	Praise: A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Praise	Gordon, having recently quit his job at a pub, has nothing to do and no-one to do it with. At 23, he is as aimless as he was when he left high school, with no future, no money, hardly any friends. He doesn't really have any ambition for changing this, either. He is, however, cynical and contemplative, melancholy and detached, able to view his life as though looking at it from afar, through a telescope, a tiny little Gordon running around in a great jar. <br /> <br />He lives in Brisbane, near the city, and knows the area well. For me, also living in Brisbane, it was refreshing and interesting to trainspot places and events, times and people. A few things have changed since 1992, but a lot of things have not. While Gordon, the narrator - or more accurately, McGahan, the author - never spends all that much time describing places or scenes, there is a general feel of things which, to me, seems quite right. <br /> <br />A few days after losing his job, an ex-workmate, Cynthia, calls him on the phone and invites him over to her place. They begin a relationship, almost entirely sexual, revolving around both explicit, meaningless sex and a cornucopia of drugs and alcohol, most of the drugs being a new experience for Gordon. At first, the story seemed like it was going to plunge into the now-familiar abyss of drug addiction and redemption, as Gordon tried heroin, acid, marijuana, and more. Happily though, this did not happen. Instead, we are invited to observe the deepening relationship between Cynthia and Gordon, as well as the growing frustration that the two experience. Cynthia, perhaps due to her past - which involved heroin addiction, mindless sex with many partners, homelessness and so on - is in the relationship almost purely for the sex, considering that she loves Gordon while he gives it to her, and not while he doesn't. Gordon has his own problems: he is too removed from himself and his emotions to offer her anything more than what she asks, something which is initially enticing but begins to bore them both. <br /> <br />The first hundred and fifty pages are little more than party after party, pub after pub, drug after drug. It does become tiresome, and the point is driven home a long time before McGahan stops giving it to us. Soon though, the couple has to face a few tough experiences, including an abortion and genital warts. Through this, Gordon stays mostly emotional, which is unfortunate. What worked as a narrative tool in the beginning begins to fail in the middle and the end as we demand some sort of response from Gordon beyond simple acceptance. This never happens, and unfortunately, the story degenerates from there. The ending is expected, and while there is a sub-plot involving the previous love-of-his-life Rachel, this feels tacked on and the handling of it is fairly trite. By the end, Gordon has not changed, but we have: We've come to see the meaningless life he leads and wish something better for him. He, however, does not see this, or if he does, he doesn't care. This is frustrating, which perhaps shows that McGahan has successfully achieved his goal - if I am frustrated with a character, then I have emotionally connected with him. <br /> <br />The story ends with a whimper, something to be expected of Gordon. The writing style was, at all times, the perfect voice for the character. Sentences were short and sharp, and never flowery. 'Big' words were never used, as they would not have fit the character. There is a sense that the author could do more if he wanted, but wisely chose not to so as to better personify the character in words. For a first novel, this is a great achievement, even though I can't help wonder if a lot of my emotional attachment to the novel comes from place-recognition. Either way, it is worth picking up and having a read, at just below 300-pages, this book is able to make its message without bogging the reader down.	2004-08-14
US	30652561	R1HN4SO5PUOJPI	0140440356	125142565	The Devils: The Possessed (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	12	13	N	N	The Possessed, or, Demons	Demons opens up with a brief exposition on the two decade long relationship between the reckless, impulsive poet, Stepan Trofimovich, and the woman who keeps him, the rich, aloof, forever exasperated landowner, Varvara Petrovna. Theirs is a strange relationship, but perhaps not so uncommon then as it would be now. Stepan Trofimovich's reputation lies on the creativity of his youth, now, approaching fifty, these glory days are all but behind him. He has become little more than a celebrated scholar. Varvara loves him, but is waiting for him to declare it, something he will never do. While much given to spouting romantic phrases in both French and Russian at the drop of a hat, he is a flighty, inconsistent man. He loves her very much, but prefers to reveal his feelings to the mostly nameless narrator with moans and groans about his fate. <br /> <br />During this long 'Not an Introduction', we are introduced, also, to the many and varied inhabitants of the small Russian town. Most of the characters - and even many of the very minor ones - are fully fleshed out, with families, backgrounds, desires, thoughts, hopes, dreams, motives. A few in particular stand out. There is Krillov, the man who is determined to end his life not through depression or melancholy, but through a choice, allowing himself to be the first man to have free-will, and thus to become God. But he is burdened with this responsibility, endlessly philosophising with himself through sleepless nights. Shatov, the bitter student, a man who wants to fight God but cannot, who tried his luck in America and failed. Karmazinov, the once-great author, losing his talent and perhaps his mind, inflated by an unjustifiable sense of self-worth. Lebyadkin, the drunken captain with the lame sister, a secret shame he never reveals. Through these characters and more we are able to ascertain the political, philosophical and economical feelings of the times, and every one becomes a fully realised, three dimensional character. <br /> <br />Nikolai Vsevolodovich and Pyotr Stepanovich, a son each to the two characters mentioned above, return to the town after years of being away. Stavrogin (Nikolai) is respected and feared, he carries a dark secret. Verkhovensky (Pyotor) is a mystery, and seems able to worm his way into upper society with ease. As the book develops, the two are involved in ever more intricate schemes, always hinted at and never revealed, while all about the Russians are living their lives. Tracts are written, political meetings are held, Verkhovensky and Stavrogin seemingly the masters of this game, however, in their meetings, it is uncertain which one really knows what is going on, and who is the true power. <br /> <br />In typical Dostoevsky fashion, all emotions are felt perhaps too well, with people moaning and crying and fainting and falling to death from shock. This romantic touch adds greatly to the drama of the story, more so as the plots thicken, intertwine, and begin to be revealed, and as the body count increases, so too does the tension. One of the last chapters, involving Verkhovensky and Krillov, is perhaps the greatest, containing such a breadth and depth of ideas about reality and God as to make one step back and reflect on what he has read. The ideas presented, all throughout the book, are lucid, coherent, and undeniably powerful. Add to this the completely realised characters, and what is left is a brilliant book that looks at the social forces of an ideological revolt under false pretenses, and just what man is prepared to do to gain power. The only negative is that the second to last chapter is a - necessary - disappointment, flatly written and seemingly tacked on, but apart from this, it is one of the greatest books I have read.	2004-08-12
US	30652561	R3SHVE32G2HJSY	0140444300	996904481	Les Miserables (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Les Mis&eacute;rables	Les Mis&eacute;rables is less a novel of Jean Valjean's life and death than it is a swan-song for 19th century France, an unflinching look at the underworld of Paris, and a vast, epic monument to man. Spanning a little over 1,400 pages, this book does not shied away from the task of writing down humanity - from a mildly socialist perspective, if nothing else - and while it may not succeed - and what author could? - the effort itself is a marvellous, wondrous creation that is worthy of its immense literary reputation.<br /><br />Jean Valjean has spent the last nineteen years in the gallows, a convict serving his time for stealing some food to eat. A strong spirit, his initial gaol sentence is lengthened from five years to seven, then eleven, fifteen, then finally nineteen after a series of failed escape attempts. When he is finally released, he is an angry man, an emotionally stunted man, a man whose soul is on th precipice of a great yawning chasm, the bottom of which is the darkest abyss. He manages to find lodgings with a gentle, elderly bishop in a small town, but is unable to cope with the kindness shown to him and he steals some silver wear. Quickly apprehended, he is returned to the bishop's home by the police, but the bishop tells them that everything is fine, that he gave the silver to Valjean. The ex-convict is stunned, amazed that anyone would bother to save his worthless life, and is still more amazed when the bishop leans in to tell him that 'You belong no longer to evil, but to good. It is your soul that I am buying for you. I withdraw it from dark thoughts and from the spirit of perdition, and I give it to God!'.<br /><br />From this point onwards, Valjean's life has changed. He struggles to do good, becoming the Mayor of a small French province. Here it is that he meets Javert, a police officer suspicious of the new Mayor's silent ways. They tangle, and Valjean's true identity is revealed. For the next 1,200 pages, the cat and mouse game of Javert andValjean moves to Paris, the heart of France, the heart of the cultural and artistic world, if Hugo is to be believed. Along the way we meet the sad Fantine, the delightful Cosette, the evil Th&eacute;nadier, the cheerful Gavroche, the...<br /><br />...But the characters do not matter, nor really the plot. Many critics have bemoaned Hugo's thin characterisations, an accusation hardly believable, given the size of the book and the relative scarcity of characters, but it is true. Cosette is the perfect French maiden, and that is all she ever is. Marius is the typical troubled youth, Enjolras the brooding philosopher-leader. Jean Valjean and Javert can be seen as mythical prototypes, a night and a day that require one another to exist. The plot, too, is flimsy, and while it contains delights, it is nothing ground-breaking, and the extensive use of coincidence was, even then, considered a lazy way of writing.<br /><br />But the strength of Les Mis&eacute;rables lies in the dramatic, almost operatic pacing and tension that Hugo creates. And spaced between these, we have lengthy diversions into Waterloo, the Parisian sewer system, gamins, religion, convents, art, history, the underbelly of Paris, and more. Hugo is not afraid to spend time addressing a subject he considers important, even if it is on the extreme periphery of the story. Eighty pages might be spent discussing an event or an idea that lasts only ten of 'real' story. This, however, is not a weakness, and serves to add a sense of grandeur to the novel, a sensation that the books and its ideas are bigger than the set pieces or the plot, that to create Paris in text the author must be able to divert himself where necessary so as to create the biggest painting on the finest canvas available. If this story was to be pared down to its constituent parts, so much of the rich texture and depth would be lost. The essays into the true nature of man, into the fallibility's of justice, politics, governments, wealth, all these add to the colour of the story. Without them, we have an urchin-novel of redemption, truth and love. With them, we have a 19th century masterpiece, a snapshot of Paris and France in the 1830s, and an overwhelming monument to humanity, but most of all, to the poor, the sad, the destitute.	2004-07-29
US	30652561	RZURZMT7037R5	0374521972	731014487	The Kingdom of This World: A Novel	Books	4	22	25	N	N	The Kingdom of This World	The Kingdom of This World loosely traces the life of Ti Noel, a solitary Negro who is a slave first under the yoke of a heartless white man, then under the infinitely more brutal reign of a former Negro slave, and finally, upon attaining old age and discovering the voodoo magic that is inherent in all Haiti men, he becomes a slave to his own flesh, to the ideals of humanity, and to the artificial thoughts and designs of man.        Carpentier's writing evokes an older time, we can practically feel the sun-drenched lakes and the harsh yellow earth of Noel's homeland. The French are the masters here, they herd Negroes about as cattle, using them to build, to tend, to feed, to nurture. Unmarried French men have no problem with using a Negro woman for a 'bed-warmer', and even less with throwing her to the meanest and darkest jobs available once their marriage is secured. Uprisings are common, and carry the hint of the magical about them, but eventually, the French always seem to prevail. Until the one armed insurgent, Macandal. Using ancient magic, he poisons the French, killing hundreds in an unseen storm of death that spares no-one, not the women, not the children. When he is finally apprehended, he uses magic to escape and the Negroes laugh at the hopeless French, while the white men look on, puzzled, at the 'callous black men' laughing as their leader dies.        Noel manages to secure freedom from slavery when he is an old man, and he returns to the place where he was first a slave, where he first met Macandal, to see what has become of this place. There, King Henri Christophe, a self-proclaimed Negro king who does little more than imitate court-life of the Europeans, is building a towering citadel with the blood of other Negroes. Noel is horrified that a black man would enslave another black man, and what is worse is that the King's dealings with the slaves are much more severe and unforgiving than the white men ever were. It is here that a mirror is placed up tothe Negroes, Noel does not like what he sees.        The writing is very illustrative; scenes and times are painted in our mind's eyes with ease. The narrator manages to place himself very far away from the narration, unwilling to pass judgment on either the black men or the white, instead reserving this to the reader. Noel himself is never used as a mere mouthpiece for the author's ideas, instead he is the observer, from youth to old age, from sadness to sadness. When he discovers magic and tries to introduce himself into the animal's way of life, he does not succeed, and is instead forced to learn how to be a human living amongst humans, no matter how unfair, how violent, how short-sighted they may be.         But this distance hurts the novel, too. Since the narrator never really enters the minds and hearts of the characters, we are left with largely ambiguous motives. Also, the voodoo of the Negroes is something that was lost on me, and I was unable to ascertain whether this extensive witchcraft was used as a writing tool to display good, evil, or neither. The shortness of the novel is actually a hindrance, as too little time is spent fleshing out scenes that might benefit from it. However, in the end, this novel serves as a wonderful fable of what it is to be a man living in a world that he may not agree with, as well as illuminating some of the darker periods of history that we have experienced.	2004-07-29
US	30652561	R2HDHEXVC3DXMW	0679722769	705442339	Ulysses	Books	5	28	30	N	N	Ulysses	On June 16th, 1904, a young James Joyce met his future wife for the first time. Ten years later, in 1914, he began what would become one of the greatest epics of modern language, Ulysses, setting the entirety of the events within that one special day shared by him and his wife, offering it to the world in an alternately joyous and tragic, comical and dense tribute to life and to living.<br />The story cannot be summarised without reciting the book itself, an exercise that goes beyond the scope of this review. Suffice to say that the novel follows Leopold Bloom as he makes his way about Dublin, and Stephen Dedalus as he wanders from place to place. The two eventually meet, and the book finishes. Then again, that description is like saying Moby Dick is about a whale and Gravity's Rainbow is about a rocket. Technically true, but how much detail and texture do you miss with such a soul-less description?<br />Ulysses has since grown beyond itself, garnering a reputation that scares away most readers. Considered an 'ivory tower' book, a 'professor's dream', it should be admitted that there are very difficult sections. Whole chapters - most of which are quite long - can be extremely tedious to read, becoming bogged down in medical or legal terms which serve mostly to confuse and distract the reader. But then there are chapters of amazing insight, clarity, wisdom and skill - thankfully more than there are difficult. The Cyclops chapter is sheer genius, a 120-page play that moves from bizarre to hilarious to sublime and back again. By itself, it is almost worth the price of admission, but there are many more that are just as amazing. The question and answer chapter of Ithaca is sheer genius, and Molly's monologue, right at the end, while texturally dense, flows and runs like a river.<br />The language used ranges from flowery to technical to simplistic to overly complicated to deliberately obscure to beautiful. 'Wavewhite wedded words shimmering on the dim tide' is beautiful, whereas 'What selfinvolved enigma did Bloom risen, going, gathering multicoloured multiform multitudinous garments, voluntarily apprehending, not comprehend?' is difficult. Of course, there is always the famous 'The heaventree of stars hung with humid nightblue fruit', quite possibly one of the most gorgeous sentences written by man.<br />Another interesting technique Joyce uses is his willingness to deny the luxury of perfect sentence structure or grammar to better convey the mood of the characters, or to greater achieve those wonderful sentences. He merges words, removes words, adds words, mirrors sentences within themselves, juxtaposes letters, words, paragraphs, all in an effort to create passages of absolute delight. Tens of pages will fly by, each one filled with wit, insight, beauty, depth. At times, it is safer to simply let go and trust that Joyce knows what he is doing, that you will be taken where you should go.<br />However. This book can be very difficult, as I said above. Fifty pages of dense, verbose prose with little to no indication of what is happening, who it is happening to, or what sort of reference can be applied so as to make sense of it in the greater scheme of the novel, is common. These parts can be tricky to get through, but I strongly advise you to continue. Happily, the first few chapters are very easy, and very beautiful. It is only around the 210 page mark that Joyce ramps up the difficulty, which culminates in the Wandering Rocks and Siren chapters. But bear with it, and enjoy it for what it is.<br />In the end - and I hope I have made this clear - the novel is a difficult one, requiring a lengthy time commitment, but in the end, the efforts are more than rewarded. Having just turned the last page, closed the book and put it aside, I am itching to take it up again, to follow Bloom and Dedalus once more through their beautiful, wonderful day.	2004-07-07
US	30652561	R3E9OD21EZ0NXM	0316290238	741461517	The Collector (Back Bay Books)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	The Collector	Ferdinand is a quiet, mild mannered clerk who has recently come into a large amount of money. Unsure what to do with it, at first he wanders about Europe with his deformed Aunt Mabel and his prim and proper Aunt Annie, satisfying their desires to be rich and cultured, but not his. They travel to Australia and he attempts to figure out what to do with his life. He has no friends, no social skills, and no desire to better himself through education, culture or life experiences. All he cares about is his butterflies, which he collects with obsessive meticulousness, and with being proper and respectful, not at all 'immoral like most nowadays'.<br />Miranda is a young art student brimming with ideas and thoughts, creativity and wit. She is graceful and beautiful, with many friends, and has a close relationship with an almost caricature pretentious art-snob of a man, GP. Her world is full of color and vibrancy, she wishes to experience everything, to learn everything, and most of all, she wishes to escape the small minded 'New People' way of life that so encompasses the existence of everyone she grew up with. Through her paintings - youthful and young, she will admit, but alive! - she strives to learn about the world she has been thrust into, not to reject it but to embrace. Having open eyes is, to her, the greatest of all gifts.<br />She goes to a college near where Ferdinand lives in London. He first noticed her at work, her house was right opposite the Annexe, but after he wins some money, he begins to follow her about, learning the patterns of her daily life, where she works, where she studies, who her friends are. On a whim, Ferdinand purchases a house with an intricate cellar far out in the country-side, miles away from anywhere. Telling himself he would never use it, he sets about making the cellar all but impenetrable with locks and bolts and sound-proofing. He buys furniture and women's clothing, and tries his hardest to break out of the cellar he has created to see if it is possible. Satisfied it isn't, he takes the next step and captures Miranda, locking her in the cellar until she can learn to love him as he loves her.<br />Forty pages into the novel we have a kidnapped woman, a love-obsessed man, and two cellar rooms. First, we are thrust through the experience of Miranda's capture through Ferdinand's hopeless eyes, with his yearning love and his down-trodden way of thinking about himself. It is plain, to him, that he is the only man - no, the only person - ever capable of loving Miranda the way she deserves, and all he wishes is to show her this truth. He is chilling in his politeness: making her breakfast every morning - whatever she wants! - buying her nice things, having coffee with her, chatting, talking, letting her paint for him. He is also incredibly thorough, thwarting the few escape attempts she makes at the start with ease. All he wants is love, to be able to love her, and to know she loves him.<br />The second part of the novel is Miranda's diary. She is a wonderful woman: Alive, energetic, intelligent, exploratory - a true modern woman. Through her diary we learn of her friends, her passions, her interesting relationship with GP, and more. She begins to consider her captivity to be a positive experience in how it is changing her way of thinking, and she desperately pities Ferdinand - her 'Caliban', she calls him, echoing the hopeless love of Caliban for Miranda in the Shakespearean play 'The Tempest'.<br />The novel ends as it should, heart breaking and sad. Throughout, we learn a great deal about the two characters, developing a sad, hopeless pity-love for Ferdinand much like Miranda does, and we love Mirand for who she is. It ends on a chilling note, a tone of unbelievable inhumanity, but no less satisfying for that.<br />One of the best books I have read this year.ee if it is possible. Satisfied it isn't, he takes the next step and captures Miranda, locking her in the cellar until she can learn to love him as he loves her.<br />Forty pages into the novel we have a kidnapped woman, a love-obsessed man, and two cellar rooms. First, we are thrust through the experience of Miranda's capture through Ferdinand's hopeless eyes, with his yearning love and his down-trodden way of thinking about himself. It is plain, to him, that he is the only man - no, the only person - ever capable of loving Miranda the way she deserves, and all he wishes is to show her this truth. He is chilling in his politeness: making her breakfast every morning - whatever she wants! - buying her nice things, having coffee with her, chatting, talking, letting her paint for him. He is also incredibly thorough, thwarting the few escape attempts she makes at the start with ease. All he wants is love, to be able to love her, and to know she loves him.<br />The second part of the novel is Miranda's diary. She is a wonderful woman: Alive, energetic, intelligent, exploratory - a true modern woman. Through her diary we learn of her friends, her passions, her interesting relationship with GP, and more. She begins to consider her captivity to be a positive experience in how it is changing her way of thinking, and she desperately pities Ferdinand - her 'Caliban', she calls him, echoing the hopeless love of Caliban for Miranda in the Shakespearean play 'The Tempest'.<br />The novel ends as it should, heart breaking and sad. Throughout, we learn a great deal about the two characters, developing a sad, hopeless pity-love for Ferdinand much like Miranda does, and we love Mirand for who she is. It ends on a chilling note, a tone of unbelievable inhumanity, but no less satisfying for that.<br />One of the best books I have read this year.	2004-06-28
US	30652561	R1HU4INWS7VKJ	0142437239	655554658	Don Quixote (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	16	19	N	N	Don Quixote	Considered by many to be one of the first modern novels, it is a hilarious exploration of 16th and 17th century Spain, all through the eyes of the chivalrous knight errant, Don Quixote, and his ever faithful squire, Sancho Panza.<br />Around the age of fifty, there was a man who, after reading countless chivalric romances, decided to adopt the name of Don Quixote and explore the world, righting wrongs, rescuing maidens and slaying giants. Deluded by the grandeur of his favourite stories, Quixote sees the world differently to normal men. An inn is not an inn but a castle, a monk not a monk but a wandering vagabond to be slain, a life-worn prostitute not a whore but a beautiful princess. After a rapid series of events, Quixote returns home, battered and bruised from the fights he has lost, in his mind a glorious knight errant returning from many victories. He convinces his neighbour, Sancho Panza, of his prowess, and the two set off once more, the first adventure they experience together being the famous windmill fight - the windmill that Quixote took to be a giant.<br />Over the next nine hundred pages or so, the relationship between Quixote and Panza develops into deep affection. The greatest pleasure is to be derived from reading their addled conversations, how they twist ordinary events into epic circumstances, and how willing Panza is to believe Quixote's exaggerations. He is promised early in the book that he will one day govern an island, and holds on to this for many months through ridiculous adventure after ridiculous adventure. Throughout, he shows an amusing level of stupidity, but also a staggering insight, seemingly able to change between the two within a sentence. And the proverbs!<br />Don Quixote is a very intelligent man, when he is not discussing chivalry. He is able to converse at great length of all manner of subjects, and every word he says seems wise and true. But turn the conversation to being a knight, or the never-seen love of his life, Dulcinea del Toboso, and he becomes a raving mad-man, spewing forth opinions and ideas that could never be believed. He is much given to grand gestures, turning a simple apology into a two paragraph discourse, highlighting ancient instances of forgiveness and sadness. The amount of references that he crams into his speech is simply amazing, and I am thankful that my Penguin Classics translation saw fit to explain them. From the bible to Greek mythology to current day (at the time) events and people to fictional giants and sorcerers to characters from books, Quixote is willing and able to place them in his speech in a way that feels effortless.<br />The book is in two parts, of roughly equal size, and the first is the best. In the second, the first part of the book has been published, and everyone is aware of who Quixote and Panza are. Consequently, many people take advantage of them, and it isn't so funny to see the two being ridiculed so harshly. Also, the narrator becomes a little too self-referential for my liking, a technique that wasn't present in the first book and feels awkward in the second.<br />But the beauty of this book is in the friendship. Sancho Panza is one of the greatest characters I have ever read, I truly feel a fondness for him and wish there were a thousand more books written of him. Don Quixote is larger than life, a caricature of a caricature, and it is a delight to read his rants. There is a sense that - if Cervantes hadn't killed off Quixote at the very end of his book to prevent further stories being written - that the two men would, even know, be travelling the countryside of Spain, bickering and chatting, secure in the knowledge that Don Quixote is an amazing knight, and that Sancho Panza is his ever faithful squire.ea del Toboso, and he becomes a raving mad-man, spewing forth opinions and ideas that could never be believed. He is much given to grand gestures, turning a simple apology into a two paragraph discourse, highlighting ancient instances of forgiveness and sadness. The amount of references that he crams into his speech is simply amazing, and I am thankful that my Penguin Classics translation saw fit to explain them. From the bible to Greek mythology to current day (at the time) events and people to fictional giants and sorcerers to characters from books, Quixote is willing and able to place them in his speech in a way that feels effortless.<br />The book is in two parts, of roughly equal size, and the first is the best. In the second, the first part of the book has been published, and everyone is aware of who Quixote and Panza are. Consequently, many people take advantage of them, and it isn't so funny to see the two being ridiculed so harshly. Also, the narrator becomes a little too self-referential for my liking, a technique that wasn't present in the first book and feels awkward in the second.<br />But the beauty of this book is in the friendship. Sancho Panza is one of the greatest characters I have ever read, I truly feel a fondness for him and wish there were a thousand more books written of him. Don Quixote is larger than life, a caricature of a caricature, and it is a delight to read his rants. There is a sense that - if Cervantes hadn't killed off Quixote at the very end of his book to prevent further stories being written - that the two men would, even know, be travelling the countryside of Spain, bickering and chatting, secure in the knowledge that Don Quixote is an amazing knight, and that Sancho Panza is his ever faithful squire.	2004-06-27
US	30652561	R1QMDZ8U05MUPJ	0671201581	635633775	A History of Western Philosophy	Books	5	8	8	N	N	History of Western Philosophy	History of Western Philosophy is Russell's attempt to reduce the breadth of intelligence, wisdom, creativity and thought of philosophy throughout the last two and a half thousand years. While in places the book is weak, and his personal bias shines through often, this is still a monumental work, and should be read by anyone interested in learning philosophy but unsure where to begin.<br />The book begins with an introduction stating Russell's intent in very clear language. He is not interested in providing a detailed thesis on each of the major philosophers, nor is he willing or able to give enough of a background so that the casual reader will become conversant in his philosophers of choice. Rather, the intent is to give an overview, to whet the appetite, to stimulate the mind with what higher thinking is capable of. From there, we are given a brief account of the history and importance of the Greeks before plunging into a chapter by chapter exposition of major authors.<br />It is an important part of this book that Russell allows us a look into the historical, economical and political aspects of each period. A proper understanding of a particular philosopher's thinking us not possible without at least some background in the conditions and prevalent thinking of the time. Without knowing of the huge importance of religion in the 15th and 16th century, is it so easy to appreciate Machiavelli's philosophy on power at all costs? No.<br />As I said earlier, there are faults. Obviously, Russell has his own personal philosophy, and where there are other philosophers who disagree either in part or totally, he gives them short shrift. Kant and Nietzsche in particular are dealt with harshly, I feel, and this is mostly because Russell's views are almost completely opposite. However, importantly, he does not hide this point. He always refers to his opinions as his, and you are allowed to disagree. From the introduction it is clear that he is a person with an opinion, where youagree, perfect. Where you don't, he gives a clear enough appraisal that it doesn't really matter.<br />In the end, this book serves only as an introduction. If you want to learn more, read the actual texts discussed as well as commentary from specialists. The goal of this book was to give a broad history, a coherent starting point and an easy access catalogue of great thinkers. In all of these goals Russell succeeds, and nowhere does he truly fail.	2004-06-24
US	30652561	RNVV8D036OM8Y	0312278497	51063647	The Glass Bead Game: (Magister Ludi) A Novel	Books	4	6	8	N	N	The Glass Bead Game	The Glass Bead Game is the pinnacle of intelligence, wisdom and learning that the 23rd century Castalia has to offer. Students are plucked from their families and lives at a young age to become 'elite' pupils, gradually inducted into the Order and the Game to carry on the traditions and ceremonies of Castalia. The Order's purpose is two-fold: One, to protect the sanctity and accuracy of knowledge from the current time down to antiquity, and two, to showcase the talents and minds of the elite with dazzling, lengthy Glass Bead Games.<br />But there is a problem, and only Joseph Knecht, the Magister Ludi - Master of the Game and hero of the story - can see it. The Glass Bead Game, while being the pinnacle of intellectual achievement, has no creativity side, no ability to move beyond what it currently is. Philosophy, music, art, mathematics, sciences: All these are condensed into symbols representing, say, a piece by Bach or a mathematical equation. However, no new symbols are allowed, or if they are, the process is so mired in bureaucracy that it may as well be impossible.<br />We follow Joseph from childhood to Magister Ludi, and we learn through him what Castalia is and is capable of. A supreme intellect, his life culminates not in the appointment of Magister Ludi - as so many other great player's would consider it to be - but rather with his famous 'circular letter', addressed to the other members of the Board, highlighting his concerns with the Glass Bead Game.<br />The plot of the book is minimal, and we are all but told it at the very beginning. Rather, we are invited to take a look at this could be-world of Hesse's. Castalia, however, is not the entirety of the world, as much as the inhabitants would like to think. No, they are 'merely' an enclosed, fully-supported (but not self-supported) university like establishment, churning out works that may or may not have any real use outside of their walls.<br />At first, the book mercilessly attacks our time, with itscommercialism, its way of turning men intelligent in one field into minor celebrities in another, its way of asking movie stars or musicians to comment on the state of the world even though there talents lie elsewhere, its way of putting wealth above all. It seems at times as though Hesse was caricaturing his own time, but the frightening thing is, in 2004, we have become this caricature. After this attack, the beauty of Castalia is revealed, as explained above. But then, as Joseph Knecht learns and discovers and becomes Magister Ludi, we learn that Castalia is not so important, not so wonderful, not so essential as first presented. It is difficult for him to accept this, but easier for us.<br />In the end, no solution is given. Hesse emphatically states that our present time is too shallow to be the answer, but so is the staid environment of Castalia. It is worth noticing that no character beyond Knecht has a personality; even his is poor. Females do not play a part, and there is no conflict. Is Hesse saying that a world without creativity becomes a lifeless, boring world capable of beauty but incapable of appreciation of this beauty?	2004-06-15
US	30652561	RXI0QA4BBOX23	0679720219	764255828	The Plague	Books	5	6	7	N	N	The Plague	'So the only thing for us to do was to go on waiting, and since after a too long waiting ones gives up waiting, the whole town lived as if it had no future.'<br /><br />The small city of Oran is an ordinary city filled with people who possess ordinary values. That is to say, the make love, they work hard at their jobs, they attend church or swim in the nearby bay - the swimmers far outweigh the churchgoers - they drink wine, they laugh, they live. They could be the people of any town, though the narrator admits early that in Oran the pursuit of money outweighs the pursuit of happiness, but isn't that, as well, indicative of a normal city, a normal people, a normal time?<br /><br />Dr Rieux has recently said goodbye to his wife, who is traveling to a sanitarium as a last ditch effort to cure her ailment. He is a calm, mannered, thoughtful man who does not want to show emotion at her parting, because he needs to be strong. After she is gone, a dead rat is found on his balcony, something the manager, M Michel, declares must surely be a prank on behalf of the local schoolboys.<br /><br />But soon, other rats are found in other areas. Not just the hotel now but elsewhere, all around the city, rats are bleeding and dying. In a matter of days, thousands of rats are dead.<br /><br />Dr Rieux continues his rounds as normal, checking up on his patients and discussing the rats. He does not know what has caused their death and agrees that it is unpleasant, but for the moment there is nothing more to do than burn the bodies and continue living. Returning home from a patient, he finds his manager, who is very sick and has developed ganglia on his neck, as well as two black patches on his thighs. 'It's like fire,' he whimpered. 'The bastard's burning me inside.'<br /><br />The next day, the hotel manager is dead. In the words of the narrator, 'Michel's death marked, one might say, the end of the first period, that of bewildering portents, and the beginning of another, relatively more trying, in which the perplexity of the early days gradually gave place to panic.' And he is right - the deaths, few and far between, steadily rise. Soon, people want an answer and, along with a committee of other doctors, it is decided that, although they will not admit the epidemic is plague, they will treat it as such and quarantine the city. Whatever has arrived shall be treated as plague, which is the same as saying that the plague has entered the city of Oran.<br /><br />The narrator allows himself the luxury of chronicling not so much individual stories of plague victims and their problems as the story of Oran itself. Long, thoughtful stretches of text discuss the implications of plague and quarantine, and what it means to the community as a whole. If the entire population is involved in the same problem, has no goal other than that of surviving through he plague, then what is there that a man can do? What can call him forward to act and live as a man should?<br /><br />If we consider that a person living under the spectre of the plague can have no future, then it is up to them to determine the course and flow of the present. But with death everywhere, how is it possible to plan? Too often, we push aside our needs and wants and dreams to an undefined future, a point in our lives when we are free to do as we wish, a hazy 'then' that may never come. When plague strikes - and the narrator argues, quite firmly, that the plague will never be defeated, that it will always come back, when we least expect it and when we are least prepared - our endless future is limited to the abrupt, defined point of tonight. If we wake up alive and plague-free, we may continue living, but our only hope can be to last until we fall asleep and the cycle repeats.<br /><br />While the large majority of the novel is involved with the philosophical aspects of plague - and it would be a weak reader who cannot stretch the metaphor of the plague to that of war, or, more broadly, that oflife and living itself - there are characters and situations. There is Rambert, a young journalist who is desperate to leave the city, to be with his fiancee. Or Grand, an old, worn civil-servant who spends his nights composing a novel such that, upon reading the first sentence, his publisher will declare 'Hats off, gentlemen!'. There are deep implications in the character of Grand, for he has never progressed beyond that first sentence, instead refining and enhancing the sentence such that the rest of his work suffers. Again, the metaphor is clear and honest.<br /><br />A note should be made of the friendship between Tarrou and Rieux. At first theirs is a compatibility of thought, a shared understanding of the dogged forward movement of life, but their relationship grows beyond that to become something quite special. Tarrou, it is revealed, has dealt with the plague all his life, has dealt with the different aspects of a plague that is present in all people, and potentially in all situations. When God is not the answer, when hope is not the answer, when there doesn't seem to be an answer at all, they understand that the answer can in fact be something as simple as doing what you consider your best, no matter how terrible the odds.<br /><br />Camus writes with a steadied, sure hand. He is as capable with writing the 'grand overview' sections of the novel that deal with the overall impact of the plague, as he is in developing the friendship of Rieux and Tarrou. At no time does the novel stumble, there is a clear flow and progression of both though and plot, as the culmination of the plague becomes the culmination of the philosophy Camus is expounding. The end of the narrative is both sad and amazingly uplifting, if we consider that, through an unbelievably difficult time, man was capable of rising above and beyond the shroud of plague, and becoming good not for its own sake, but for the sake of goodness itself.<br /><br />The message he has is one that is timely, important, and utterly necessary. The plague is our lives, for we are under the eternal plague of an absent death that is approaching rapidly. Given that we know we shall die, the question becomes, how shall we live? Camus argues through his characters that living is not about when we die but the right now in which we are alive and breathing. We should not do the good in life, and be good purely because of an external reward or for the praise of others no, we should do good because in itself, it is a worthwhile endeavour. Consider: if we praise a man for doing a good deed, aren't we then implying that this good deed is out of the ordinary for the character of man? Is it possible to live in a time when goodness itself is an extra-personal characteristic, and not one that is inherent within all people? Camus says yes, goodness is inherent, and if, in a city ravaged by the plague, ordinary men and woman can do good things, then there is hope for our now - we don't have to relegate it to a distant future that may or may not come to pass.ere is Rambert, a young journalist who is desperate to leave the city, to be with his fiancee. Or Grand, an old, worn civil-servant who spends his nights composing a novel such that, upon reading the first sentence, his publisher will declare 'Hats off, gentlemen!'. There are deep implications in the character of Grand, for he has never progressed beyond that first sentence, instead refining and enhancing the sentence such that the rest of his work suffers. Again, the metaphor is clear and honest.    A note should be made of the friendship between Tarrou and Rieux. At first theirs is a compatibility of thought, a shared understanding of the dogged forward movement of life, but their relationship grows beyond that to become something quite special. Tarrou, it is revealed, has dealt with the plague all his life, has dealt with the different aspects of a plague that is present in all people, and potentially in all situations. When God is not the answer, when hope is not the answer, when there doesn't seem to be an answer at all, they understand that the answer can in fact be something as simple as doing what you consider your best, no matter how terrible the odds.    Camus writes with a steadied, sure hand. He is as capable with writing the 'grand overview' sections of the novel that deal with the overall impact of the plague, as he is in developing the friendship of Rieux and Tarrou. At no time does the novel stumble, there is a clear flow and progression of both though and plot, as the culmination of the plague becomes the culmination of the philosophy Camus is expounding. The end of the narrative is both sad and amazingly uplifting, if we consider that, through an unbelievably difficult time, man was capable of rising above and beyond the shroud of plague, and becoming good not for its own sake, but for the sake of goodness itself.    The message he has is one that is timely, important, and utterly necessary. The plague is our lives, for we are under the eternal plague of an absent death that is approaching rapidly. Given that we know we shall die, the question becomes, how shall we live? Camus argues through his characters that living is not about when we die but the right now in which we are alive and breathing. We should not do the good in life, and be good purely because of an external reward or for the praise of others no, we should do good because in itself, it is a worthwhile endeavour. Consider: if we praise a man for doing a good deed, aren't we then implying that this good deed is out of the ordinary for the character of man? Is it possible to live in a time when goodness itself is an extra-personal characteristic, and not one that is inherent within all people? Camus says yes, goodness is inherent, and if, in a city ravaged by the plague, ordinary men and woman can do good things, then there is hope for our now - we don't have to relegate it to a distant future that may or may not come to pass.	2004-06-05
US	30652561	R2AYNHF64W6LMJ	0802130208	161411385	A Confederacy of Dunces	Books	4	0	2	N	N	A Confederacy of Dunces	Ignatius J Reilly is fat. Ignatius is lazy. He is slothful, arrogant, condescending, self-obsessed, self-absorbed, incapable of empathy, calculating, ignorant, deluded and did I mention obese? After all but causing a car accident thanks to his tendency to 'aid' people with their driving, his mother demands that the unemployed, thirty-year old get a job. He is horrified, certain that gainful employment will disrupt the sporadic work he does on his masterpiece. And of course there is the problem with his valve.<br />So he finds himself a job. He breezes into the Levy Pants company and demands more pay, later starting time, and then spends his days carefully painting a cross to cheer everyone up. Then he incites a riot. Then he gets fired.<br />This first job sets a lot of events in motion. Characters are introduced and frequently we enter their lives to see what is happening. This has the effect of diluting Ignatius' presence from the story - but only slightly - however the compromise here is that we know it will all tie in together - we just don't know how.<br />There is Jones, the black floor-sweeper at the Night of Joy, quite possibly the worst strip-club in all of New Orleans. Mr Levy, the disillusioned son of the original - and best, if we can believe his wife - Mr Levy. George, the mysterious package deliverer. Mancuso, the down on his luck detective, and more. Excluding Jones, these characters all have sub-par development as character, and serve mostly as caricatures. This goes even more so for the lesser characters I have not mentioned.<br />Events do tie themselves up a little too neatly. There is a sense that every little action, no matter how inconsequential, builds towards a whole, which doesn't really reflect the reality of life, but this is a moot point. Ignatius is an amazing character, so awful, arrogant and just plain mean to every other person imaginable that you will have to fall in love. Who cannot enjoy his Working Boy Journals? Or his love/hate relationship with Myrna? Don't necessarily read this book for plot - which, though strong, plays out like a 1 hour crime special - read it for Ignatius.	2004-06-02
US	30652561	R3S3V4HPZ7E9ZQ	0060932139	104524934	The Unbearable Lightness of Being	Books	5	6	7	N	N	The Unbearable Lightness of Being	The Unbearable Lightness of Being is an interesting mix of social commentary, history lesson and relationship examination all rolled into one novel that is told, not by a narrator, but by Kundera himself.<br />The lightness of being is at the focal point of this novel. We are first presented with a brief essay-like section on whether life is a light or a heavy experience, and if it differs for others. He uses historical figures as evidence as to the weight of life, some, like Parmenides, consider life to be a light burden, as 'lightness' is positive and so is being alive, and Nietzsche appears to agree, though for very different reasons. Throughout the novel, Kundera takes over the narration to discuss, contrast and compare the actions of the characters as regards to the philosophy of great men, trying to determine whether life is in fact light or heavy. The conclusion he seems to come to is that it is up to the person themselves to decide, and after that, to decide which out of light or heavy is the negative aspect.<br />In terms of story, most of the activity centres around Tomas and Tereze, who met through a bizarre sequence of activities. In another show of polarity, Tereze considers these amazing coincidences proof that they should be together forever, whereas as Tomas thinks it means that their relationship will be as fleeting and ephemeral as the chance of them ever meeting. We also get to see on of Tomas' (many) mistresses, Sabine, although the details of her life are presented more to understand Tomas.<br />About halfway through the novel, we are taken on an excursion into the way life was in Czechoslovakia, with the threat of the Russians and communism, and the way people were deluded. This part is interesting from a historical and social aspect, as our heroes are involved in the proceedings, but thankfully the author does not let his own political ideology take over the narrative at the expense of the characters.<br />Since we are being told this story byKundera and not some nameless, faceless narrator, the writing is very playful, tangential and casual. Many things are explained then further explained in brackets (like so), which might seem like the author is bashing our head with the point he is trying to make, but it never comes across as this. Rather, we are thankful for such personal insight.<br />The book can be very sad, and very weighty, but most of the time it remains light-weight and playful - thus mimicking the subject matter and narrative structure of the story itself. The insight into the Czechoslovakia as a nation and as people is quite interesting also, but as said above, the focus remains on Tomas and Tereze's relationship, and through that, an analysis of all relationship's is made.	2004-05-30
US	30652561	R28LKU6T1KKRJ4	0060936231	429116202	Soul Mountain	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Soul Mountain	Soul Mountain is the story of one man's quest to discover the truth about himself, or, if you interpret it differently, it is the struggle of two men, or three men, or three men and a woman. In the quest for meaning he stumbles across many truths about humanity, the culture of China, and the effects of man on the environment.<br />There are two main threads through this novel. First is the 'I' character, he is a writer, wandering through the small towns and farm-lands of China in an effort to find Lingshan, 'soul mountain'. Then there is 'You', another person searching the rural areas of China for Lingshan. Chapters alternate between 'I' and 'You', and there are a lot of parallels between the two. In one chapter, the 'You' character might have a run-in with some explorers searching for pandas, then, five chapters later, the 'I' character interacts with the same or similar people. There is a sense that these two are in fact the same, that they offer different perspectives on the same events, and how, to two different people, the same thing can have such different meaning. Later, a 'She' is introduced as an accompaniment to 'You', 'She' is represented not as a coherent female character, but rather as all females; her personality changes radically from chapter to chapter while still retaining a common thread.<br />There is no real structure beyond that, however. Plots lines are taken up, then mysteriously discarded by the time we return to the character, never to be mentioned again. Small details change, and lots of story-lines are repeated. There is a lot of exploration into the mostly forgotten culture of China - or more accurately, a lot of the culture that was all but eradicated by the Cultural Revolution of the 50s and 60s - and with all of these sequences there is a sense of sadness. So to with the meditations on the effects the spreading, more technologically able population of China is having on the wilderness.<br />There are a lot of passages which serve onlyto explore the mind and soul of the author. A lot of these occur in the 'You' sections, which serve to bring us, the reader, into the dilemmas and solutions presented. Without this technique, a lot of these chapters or paragraphs might have seemed self-indulgent.<br />A primary concern of mine was the way the 'She' was treated. I don't know much about how women are treated in China, but in almost every instance, 'She' was either madly obsessive, fragile, weak and pathetic, or hopelessly domineering. Also, every sex scene had the woman become limp 'like a fish' and say 'no, no, no'. For me, this was disturbing to read.<br />In the end, this book is for people willing to search within themselves and ask the hard questions. Solutions are offered, but just as easily rejected. By having a 'You', we are drawn into the story quickly, and without this, it would suffer as there is no real cohesive thread throughout the 550-odd pages. With it, we are sent on a journey through the soul of a man contemplating his own life, and through that, our own.	2004-05-26
US	30652561	R22CAKFJM8A6M3	0451450523	22804953	The Last Unicorn	Books	5	2	4	N	N	The Last Unicorn	She is the last of the Unicorns. For centuries, she has lived within her forest, at one with nature and her surroundings. Immortal, she has been unconcerned with the fate of the other Unicorns, for surely, if they were all gone, she would know of it? But it is not the case. Feeling curiosity and doubt for the first time in many years, she sets off to find out what has happened to the other Unicorns, why humans don't even seem to see her, and just what the mysterious Red Bull is.<br />Beagle writes beautifully. Metaphors and similes are used with ease, and almost without exception they evoke images of verdant forest, shimmering lakes or crashing seas. Nature is a well-used tool for poetic license, and fits the theme and setting of the book perfectly.<br />Along the way, she meets the bumbling magician Schmendrick after being captured by a dark, evil witch, then Molly Grue next befriends her. Together the trio explore the land, venturing deep into the mean King Haggard's domain in search of the Red Bull.<br />Characters are either very black or very white. The Unicorn, we are told, is the most perfect, beautiful creature of all, and this lofty description is met and matched and every opportunity. We believe that she is perfect because her actions are perfect and the words to describe her are perfect. There is a sense of great sadness when she walks through a human town and is considered to be only a white mare, she cannot understand how the villagers seem unable to even see her horn.<br />There are mis-steps along the way, but not many. Some of the dialogue between humans is too anachronistic for my liking, and the opening to the second part of the novel in Haggard's castle dragged a little bit. A few too-clever modern day references were made as well, but really, all of these are minor. The writing is beautiful, capable of evoking sadness and joy, and the characters are a lot of fun to be around. The ending, while tidy, was expected almost from the start and is thussatisfying.<br />On a last note, the butterfly near the start was probably my favourite part of the whole novel, what a great character!	2004-05-26
US	30652561	R11PB7SL2ZOG8T	0142437298	303427184	Herzog (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Herzog	Moses E Herzog is going mad. He's aware of this, doesn't seem to bother him too much, though he can sense that it worries his friends and families. He begins to write letters, first to people he knows, then to celebrities, dead philosophers, himself; letters he never intends on sending but that act as a therapeutic activity for his troubled mind. By the end of the novel, we know Herzog, understand him, sympathise with him, even love him.<br />His second wife Madeleine recently ran away with his best friend, taking their young child with her. Herzog is filled with hatred towards her, but, strangely, it is an oddly amiable hatred. He recognises her good qualities, wishes her well in life, and generally doesn't want to ever see her again no matter what. The breakup with her is certainly the pivotal point for his madness, most of the events and thoughts in the novel surround her or the marriage.<br />Through his letters, Herzog explores his past and previous relationships. A letter to an old school friend will trigger memories of his failed crook of a father, a letter to a favoured philosopher will trigger memories of sleeping late with Madeleine and making love. We are rocketed back and forth, from Europe to America, childhood to adulthood with ease and skill, it never jars, but flows naturally.<br />Herzog is a very complicated character. He is aware of his own weaknesses, but only some he tries to fix. Others he is comfortable with, safe in the knowledge of what they are. He is a man who, while lacking confidence in some areas, has supreme confidence in who he is as a person. He does come off as arrogant sometimes, but he is aware of it, and to an extent enjoys the mild prestige of being the wise, in-print professor.<br />The narrator is mostly separate from Herzog, but he follows the professor's erratic, excited, jumpy speech. Occasionally the narrator will slip into the first POV, referring to Herzog as 'I', but this is rare. For the most part, the narrator is fresh, exuberant and in love with life - much like Herzog himself.<br />By the end of the novel, Herzog is complete. He breathes, lives and walks among us. There is no problem with believing that this is a real person. He has flaws, he has problems, he perhaps philosophises a little too much to be of any practicable use (his words), but by the end of the book, I wouldn't have him any other way.	2004-05-20
US	30652561	R36JVTR52IXESG	0679746633	346903693	Kangaroo Notebook: A Novel	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Kangaroo Notebook	Kangaroo Notebook is a darkly surreal novel, at turns bizarre and ridiculous then just as easily becomes normal and calm. While lacking a sense of continuity through a few odd narrative choices, Kangaroo Notebook remains an interesting experiment into imagination.<br />One day, our nameless narrator wakes to find that he has radish sprouts growing from his knees. Not particularly alarmed at this, he soon discover to his pleasure that they are edible and quite tasty. A doctor's appointment lands him in the hospital where he is knocked out with drugs. From there, using his trusty Atlas bed as a transportation device, we are led through bizarre scene after bizarre scene, from hairy American martial arts experts to the souls of aborted children who perform plays on the banks of the river Sai for charity.<br />The narrator is on one hand an interesting fellow - he IS growing radish sprouts from his knees, after all - and his adventures are quite entertaining, but there is a lack within him. He show no great curiosity as to why everything is happening to him, nor does he really seem interested in getting everything back to normal. He is content to go with the flow, and throughout the novel, he acts more as a spectator than an actual character. Almost, but not quite, he is an omniscient narrator, in the sense that his voice does nothing more than record what is happening. Not quite though, because he does participate in a few interesting conversations along the way. Unfortunately, his lack of personality is a definite crutch.<br />The nameless narrator ricochets from bizarre sequence to stunningly normal locale, then back to bizarre with a speed that is at time dizzying. Often, scene changes are precipitated by the narrator being knocked unconscious, a fairly weak literary device that is used far too often here. The end sequence is the most bizarre of them all, juxtaposing the lengthy normal hospital scene that proceeds it.<br />The novel ended, to my mind, abruptly and without closure. There is a cryptic message at the end - which, I'll admit, I was expecting something of the sort - but I couldn't really decipher it at first. But, after thinking about the novel for a few hours after I had finished, I realised that the ending was, in fact, perfect.<br />To my mind, appreciation of this book comes down to a personal choice. If you enjoy bizarre series of events that don't seem to be going anywhere but suddenly illuminate at the end, then by all means read it. If however, you don't like barely connected scenes with a personality-less narrator, steer clear.	2004-05-19
US	30652561	RKUYPUTDE6J74	0060930217	233688105	V. (Perennial Classics)	Books	4	11	11	N	N	V	What is V?  Is it Vogt, the night-time Austrian spy?  The (possibly) mystical country Vheissu?  Or perhaps Venezuela?  The mountain Vesuvius?  Veronica the rat, wannabe priestess?  Vera Meroving?  Veronica Manganese?  All of these, none?  Does V even exist?<br />Enter Benny Profane, self-proclaimed Schlemihl and human yo-yo, ex Navy, down on his luck, slightly fat, afraid/entranced by inanimate objects and seemingly incapable of having sex, no matter how many girls blatantly offer.  Soon he is entangled with the Whole Sick Crew, a bunch of disillusioned wanna-be artists content to spend their days and nights drinking and discussing the finer points of a society they claim to disdain.  Stencil, a middle-aged Crew member on the fringe, is obsessed with tracking down V, linking seemingly obscure, random facts from around the world and throughout time to hunt down the enigmatic...person? Place?  Event?  <br />In true Pynchon style, we are mercilessly rocketed from location to location, time to time, character to character.  Sentences can begin in 20th century New York and end in 19th century France.  Chapters can start in Africa and, through a series of bewildering but carefully placed changes, visit Germany, Italy, America and other areas of Africa during the forty-years previous Herero massacres.  <br />The present time events, focusing on Profane and the Crew, are fast-paced, witty, and for the most part, hilarious.  Almost every scene is a party, one notable exception being a hideously graphic nose job.  Brief forays into the sewers of New York city near the start of the book are another welcome exception.  <br />Certain ruminations on something v-related (and boy are there a lot!) can trigger whole chapters in the past, some of which are entertaining and meaningful, others of which are unfortunately a drag to read.  On the whole, a little over half the extended flashbacks succeed, which isn't a good enough percentage for my liking, but thankfully there is enough here to keep anyone interested.<br />It is important to note that this is Pynchon's first book, and he was very young when it was written.  While the trademarks we've come to love are there: hilarity, songs, extreme tangents, ridiculous character names, the flow just isn't as strong as later books.  It does suffer from a feeling of being disjointed, and unfortunately a lot of the sections ONLY link to the 'main' storyline is the letter V, a link which is just not strong enough at times.  Still, this is a Pynchon novel; his weaknesses are the strengths of lesser authors.	2004-05-17
US	30652561	RPPPD495QOFY2	0060930217	233688105	V. (Perennial Classics)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	V	What is V?  Is it Vogt, the night-time Austrian spy?  The (possibly) mystical country Vheissu?  Or perhaps Venezuela?  The mountain Vesuvius?  Veronica the rat, wannabe priestess?  Vera Meroving?  Veronica Manganese?  All of these, none?  Does V even exist?<br />Enter Benny Profane, self-proclaimed Schlemihl and human yo-yo, ex Navy, down on his luck, slightly fat, afraid/entranced by inanimate objects and seemingly incapable of having sex, no matter how many girls blatantly offer.  Soon he is entangled with the Whole Sick Crew, a bunch of disillusioned wanna-be artists content to spend their days and nights drinking and discussing the finer points of a society they claim to disdain.  Stencil, a middle-aged Crew member on the fringe, is obsessed with tracking down V, linking seemingly obscure, random facts from around the world and throughout time to hunt down the enigmatic...person? Place?  Event?  <br />In true Pynchon style, we are mercilessly rocketed from location to location, time to time, character to character.  Sentences can begin in 20th century New York and end in 19th century France.  Chapters can start in Africa and, through a series of bewildering but carefully placed changes, visit Germany, Italy, America and other areas of Africa during the forty-years previous Herero massacres.  <br />The present time events, focusing on Profane and the Crew, are fast-paced, witty, and for the most part, hilarious.  Almost every scene is a party, one notable exception being a hideously graphic nose job.  Brief forays into the sewers of New York city near the start of the book are another welcome exception.  <br />Certain ruminations on something v-related (and boy are there a lot!) can trigger whole chapters in the past, some of which are entertaining and meaningful, others of which are unfortunately a drag to read.  On the whole, a little over half the extended flashbacks succeed, which isn't a good enough percentage for my liking, but thankfully there is enough here to keep anyone interested.<br />It is important to note that this is Pynchon's first book, and he was very young when it was written.  While the trademarks we've come to love are there: hilarity, songs, extreme tangents, ridiculous character names, the flow just isn't as strong as later books.  It does suffer from a feeling of being disjointed, and unfortunately a lot of the sections ONLY link to the 'main' storyline is the letter V, a link which is just not strong enough at times.  Still, this is a Pynchon novel; his weaknesses are the strengths of lesser authors.	2004-05-16
US	30652561	R34U03RQ9VXO86	1582431612	122266781	The Visitor	Books	4	5	5	N	N	The Visitor	Twenty-two year old Anastasia's mother has just died and now, six years after leaving, she returns to Dublin to live with her grandmother, the years apart not dulling the bitterness and regret of an old woman obsessed with her dead son.<br />After a messy divorce, Anastasia's mother left her father, breaking his heart and sealing away any sense of sympathy or pity from her grandmother forever. With nowhere else to go, she is accepted into the purposely old-fashioned, stagnating household where time is whiled away drinking tea and remembering times when everything was better. Every character exudes a sense of existing only to remember the past; nobody has a future, nor do they have a desire for one. Not even Anastasia, the youngest character by fifty years, is interested in moving her life forward, she wants to regress to a time when she could be looked after and protected, unwilling to seek a future that involves taking care of herself.<br />The novella is very sad. One character loved a man in secret forty years ago, and, on her death-bed, requests that she be buried with a wedding ring he gave to her but that she could never wear. Another exists only to aid Anastasia's grandmother, helping here and there and making sure that everything is the same as it was ten, twenty, thirty years ago. Change itself is the enemy here, the grandmother's only desire is to be buried with her son, no more, no less.<br />There is a sense of completeness with the character's that is odd to find in a story. There are no great quests - physically, mentally or otherwise - nor are the characters given a chance to grow. In their minds, they have grown as much as they wish to - but not as much as they could - and that is enough for them. For now, they are dead without knowing it, waiting patiently for the time when God will call them up to Heaven.<br />The writing is grey and cold - at least, that is how I felt while reading it. Sentences are short, crisp, and wonderfully indicative of thementalities of the characters. Very rarely are there any excursions into contemplation, everything stays very much in the moment, analysing in great detail the all-too-easy stagnation of a life where the reasons for living are gone, forever.<br />This novella is very short - 81 pages - but worth the read. It is unhappy, but not in a sense that the reader will become unhappy. Rather, we are able to examine the fruitless lives of four different people happy to wait and wait and wait. In them we can see a reality we do not want, and thus avoid.	2004-05-16
US	30652561	R3GDR9Z646M1BU	0140152741	435955476	Mao II: A Novel	Books	3	13	14	N	N	Mao II	Mao II is a reasonably short book that is by turns about a reclusive writer struggling with a book he knows that will never be finished and the people around him, and the struggles of terrorism and the middle east, cults and brain-washing.  At times, this book written in 1991 is strangely prophetic of the September 11 events, and as in the other Delillo book I have read, New York city is a prominent location, the World Trade Centres ominous characters, prescient in their apparent eternity.<br />Bill is a writer who has been working on his third novel for decades.  It has been finished, years ago, he now obsessively edits and reviews each and every page, never being completely satisfied with the results.  In a lot of ways he enjoys being the faded recluse, enjoys being a writer who is not a commodity.  Two other people live with him, Karen - a previous cult member - and Scott, once just a fan of Bill's but now a friend who helps tend to his affairs.  In addition to this, Karen provides Bill with physical satisfaction, but the reasons for this are never really discussed or some into the story, in fact, I'm not entirely sure why that particularly subplot even existed.<br />A photographer, Brita, enters the cosy world the three have setup, and Bill allows her the first photos of him since he was a young man.  They hit off, but more importantly, Bill's awareness of his place in the world is sparked once more.  Soon he is meeting with his old editor and events take an odd and not exactly satisfactory turn, becoming more focused on the middle east and terrorism, and less on the life of a writer who is unhappy with himself.<br />From here, the novel deteriorates.  While remaining technically enjoyable to read, I was much more interested in Bill's life than I was with Middle Eastern politics.  The ending was unsatisfactory, and answered no questions - but then, what questions were raised?  The plot involving Bill's redemption was dropped, and a subsequent development with aSwiss poet captured by terrorists in a bid to help raise the profile of the newly formed terror group and a literary community was not developed enough.  Even Karen's cult background wasn't fully used.<br />Delillo's strengths are his prologues and his dialogue.  The prologue was tight, forceful, and ended with a perfect sentence.  It would have made a fantastic short story, and I felt that, once it was finished, I was in for an amazing ride.  Dialogue is authentic, flows just like a real conversation, and contains many of the unfinished sentences and stray ramblings that people use when they talk.  Both the prologue and the dialogues throughout felt as though they had been worked on, again and again, to get it right, while long stretches of plot or of description felt almost like an after-thought.<br />To conclude, I greatly enjoyed the first hundred and twenty pages or so.  I didn't like the shift of focus, but a premise was built up that look promising, then that, too, was dropped.  The result is an unfortunately hollow book.  But perhaps I am missing something.  It has received a lot of praise, and won awards, and I can't understand why.  While written well, it just couldn't live up to the amazing prologue.	2004-05-06
US	30652561	R4KLPIEN93EO2	0553213113	551860371	Moby-Dick (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Moby Dick	'Call me Ishmael' - thus begins a novel that the author describes thus: 'It is the horrible texture of a fabric that should be woven of ships' cables and hawsers.  A Polar wind blows through it, and birds of prey hover over it.'  Perhaps the first sentence is better known than the novel, perhaps not, but either way, Moby Dick is a sprawling epic on life in the 19th century, whaling, religion, good and evil, and more.<br />The story is familiar to even those who have never read it: The whaling ship, the Pequod, led by the obsessed, monomaniac Captain Ahab, are searching for the Great White Whale over the oceans of the world, in part to avenge the loss of one of Ahab's limbs, but also because some other force drives the Captain, a dark force to his mates, but to him, the obsession that pushes him to chase the whale over half the world is nothing short of divine.<br />The novel is broken into three rough sections.  The first introduces us to Ishmael, and for the first hundred pages or so, we are firmly ensconced within his head, seeing what he sees, doing what he does.  We meet Queequeg and board the Pequod, and for a time, all is calm, serene.  The second section - called boring by many - focuses on the day-in day-out life of a whaling ship, with lengthy discourses on whales, how to kill them, the spermecetti that they produce, etc.  In this day and age, with whaling illegal in most places - and even if it wasn't, the call for sperm oil has markedly decreased with the discovery of crude oil - the essays (as essays they are) on the facets of whaling life were interesting, if only because it is a life that neither you nor I will probably ever experience first hand.  <br />The third section, the final hundred pages or so, is the final climactic struggle with the whale.  Moby Dick himself does not actually appear until the last forty pages, but he hovers like a spectre throughout the entirety of the book, always there, present, waiting.  For the more aware crew he is a shade over their heads, a folly they cannot understand.  For the pagans on the ship, the whale is an adventure, a rollicking good time that could very well net them the gold doubloon Ahab has nailed to the main mast.  But for the captain, it is an obsession that overshadows all else, often to the exclusion of another man's life.  The final section of the book in punctuated with lengthy monologues from Ahab, detailed, insane ramblings of a man who believes that his ever action is foredained, that the clash between the whale and his harpoon has been decided a 'billion years ago'.<br />An interesting writing technique that Melville uses is having Ishmael slowly disappear over the course of the novel.  At the start, he acts and reacts to events, speaks to people, visits places, but once the whaling begins, he assumes the task of learned scholar imparting his wisdom, lecturing on the ins and out of whales.  By the time the hunt really begins, Ishmael hasn't been mentioned in hundreds of pages, becoming more of an omniscient narrator than a whaler on board the Pequod.<br />Many, many biblical and historical references are littered throughout the book.  Many things have obvious symbolism, and with a greater knowledge of the Bible, I wouldn't be surprised if I would've picked up on more.  At times, Ishmael will discuss the impact of whaling, the virtues of good and evil, the horrors of the colour white, and more; this is no simple book about a man chasing a whale.  It has staggering depths and dizzying highs, and while only a very few characters have been fully fleshed out - though I dare say Ahab is one of the better characters I have read in recent memory - the book transcends a mere ship adventure, instead trying to - and in some ways, succeeding - encompass the entirety of morality and logic.  Tremendous.	2004-05-05
US	30652561	R28TP5W6UNS13C	0679742115	826671409	Vox	Books	5	63	66	N	N	Vox	Vox is the novella length discussion between Abby and Jim, two relatively lonely people inspired, late one night, to call a sex phone line to make a connection with someone, anyone. They find each other, and as the novel progresses, through a series of neatly spaced erotic stories, they begin to develop a friendship, marvelling at the strange wonders of technology, the phone, and how it could bring two people together who would never otherwise meet.<br />The entire story is in dialogue, with only a very few 'he said' and 'she said's to allow us to remember just who is speaking - which due to the quality of the writing and characterisation is rarely necessary. At first, Jim is mostly interested in one thing, but early on he realises that he has found someone who is perhaps worth more of a time investment than a 'normal' call to this particular chatline, and for a very long time, there is only very minor sex talk. They discuss the little oddities of life that everyone discusses in quiet moments, sharing thoughts about mundane items or events in ways that would no doubt sound instantly familiar to anyone, anywhere. A huge positive of this novella is that Baker writes both characters with a sense of awareness, just like any other normal person. There are a lot of things that the two characters just plain get, and a lot that they don't. They can talk about the casual immediacy of events, or the metaphysics of those little lights on stereo sets.<br />A few questions. Have you ever, when talking to someone, wanted to travel through the phone? Yes. Have you ever spoken to someone, and you know that if, through any circumstance whatsoever, there is a break in the conversation, the magic will be gone and that will be that? Yes. Have you ever taken a sick day off from work and then felt so guilty about it that you just had to spend the rest of the day being 'pious'? Yes. Abby and Jim discuss these little truths about the world, and more, though to be honest, most of the rest tend to the explicit. Those conversations are, I think, handled tastefully, without resorting to vulgarity, which is surprising, considering the nature of the call and of the story. To be sure, quite often explicit conversation will begin, but it is of a 'warm' nature, I suppose, not vulgar and shocking and crude - they even make a point about that fact in adult movies.<br />Nicholson Baker writes with the heart. I've had conversations like this. You've had conversations like this. Whether or not they tended to the erotic doesn't matter, the point is: we've all spoken to another person that we've been interested in, and they've returned the interest, and we know the way we talk and what we talk about. This novel perfectly captures this, and by the end of it, I felt utterly sad that these two, imperfect, beautiful, interesting and sexual characters were just that...characters. Never have I felt so cheated before, or so thankful that I had been, if only for a moment, able to glimpse into the minds of these two extraordinarily ordinary people, through one simple phone conversation.	2004-05-04
US	30652561	R1R36REEBU34M8	031242163X	364025620	The Scheme for Full Employment: A Novel	Books	2	1	5	N	N	The Scheme For Full Employment	In the Scheme For Full Employment, Mills has taken an exaggerated satirical look at providing work for the unemployed in what is an extremely British novel that unfortunately fails to make much of a point, neither lauding the advantages of such a scheme or pointing out the obvious flaws.<br />The novel begins with a short page or two monologue on how the Scheme failed - serving at once to make us curious as to what the Scheme is, but also destroying any sense of wonder at the ending of the story. From there, we are slowly introduced to the workings of the Scheme through the eyes of the nameless narrator; little snippets of information divulged between lengthy detours involving cakes and new recruits and a whole lot of tea.<br />Univans are the name of the game, the drivers drive them, the engineers fix them, the managers oversee them, and they are used to transport parts for...more univans. Completely self-contained, we are told that the public honours and values these Univan drivers, though we are never told why. Surely the public would understand that the Univans do not actually produce a single thing, and thus are a greater strain on the economy than simply paying the workers an equivalent amount of money? Roads, Univans, uniforms, food, equipment, buildings - these all have to be paid for, and are a huge expense when you consider the alternative of simply paying the unemployed to sit at home. <br />Unfortunately, the social angle of the Scheme is never explored. Rather, we are soon involved in a debate between the 'flat-dayers', men who wish to work the full eight hours, and the 'early swervers', those who think it is alright to have an early exit when the situation calls for it. Considering that these men have an extremely leisurely job - and we are told many times that the afternoons consist of reading newspapers and sleeping, in short, wasting time - the early swerver's position is never really understandable. Nor are matters helped by the narrator remainingfactionless throughout the novel - by having no strong opinion either way, the narration suffers from a lack of urgency. <br />The book ends as it must - with the Scheme collapsing. The reason for it being disbanded is ridiculous to the extreme and completely, absolutely unbelievable. We are, however, given hints that the Government was waiting for an excuse to shut the project down, and the ending does give it that excuse, but as the novel seemed so against social commentary or the ramifications of the Scheme earlier, this ending seems tacked on and is a let down. <br />In the end, I was left asking myself why this book was written and why I had read it. Everybody knows that there are problems with social welfare, but this book neither offers a solution nor poses any hard questions. In the end, we know what we always did - that work can be tiresome, that people enjoy the easy route over the hard, and that getting all that you paid for isn't always a guarantee.	2004-04-27
US	30652561	RIWQD6VBY5TM	0140296409	929204920	Disgrace: A Novel	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Disgrace	Disgrace is one of the more recent works by our latest Nobel Prize winner, an unassuming book that chooses to quietly extol the virtues and limitations of the main character, Professor David Lurie.<br />David has always been something of a Casanova, able to seduce women into his bed with the most practised of gazes and, with an artful phrase or two, the conquest is his. Now, however, he is growing older, and finds himself unable to catch the beauties that seemed so easy to woo a decade ago; he finds he must resort to prostitutes for sex.<br />Enter Melanie. A student, he seduces her - rather forcefully, rather roughly - and a brief but intimate relationship begins. Here the first few flaws of David's character are exposed, he truly believes that Melanie's resistance's and tears are all part of a subtle flirtation on her part. Inevitably, the relationship crumbles, David is expelled from the University, and he travels to his daughter's tiny farm. His fall complete, David must now rebuild his life, discover what about himself he considers worthwhile, and act on the negative aspects. This 'self-help' is shattered when three African men attack the farm, with terrible consequences.<br />The book is written with a crisp, clear style; there are no needless embellishments, no overstated metaphors or similes. Literary comparisons and Latin sentences are scattered throughout - though mostly at the start - and these are clearly David's influence. A classically educated man, he has no problems with comparing himself to Byron, or a casual lover to Byron's Therese. <br />Often, it feels as though the book was first written as a 400-page book, then pared down to the slim 221 it is now. This works extremely well, giving the book a sense of depth and clarity it may not have had if it was always 'just' a 200 page book. <br />For David, the lesson of this story is not one of a fall from grace and a return to providence. No, for him it is learning how to be complete. Never do we get the feeling that David is sorry for what happened between him and Melanie, or that he thinks it was wrong, or in any way his fault. There are no crisis of conscious to be found, rather David learns to fit his round hole into the square peg of farm life. He ends complete, but not necessarily completed, as though, while his every want is satisfied, there is a better completion out there for him, but he does not need it. Consider a box full of apples versus a box full of diamonds. Both are full, but it could be argued that the box of diamonds is filled 'better'.<br />I recommend this story, it is short and quick, quietly elegant in its prose and style. As a young man, I perhaps don't understand the depth of David's fall from grace and subsequent satisfaction with a life that, two months ago, he would never have envisioned himself capable of.	2004-04-27
US	30652561	RR46LNV5XAJQ	0802130305	563004784	Ficciones	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Ficciones	I'll put it as bluntly as I can: Jorge Luis Borges is an absolute genius, a staggering mind of supreme proportions, and I thank the gods of literature that he was able to compress his ideas into these seventeen short stories for the betterment of anyone willing to read and learn from them.<br />As a writer, Borges is not particularly interested in the reader having empathy with the characters, he doesn't really set the scene, and the storylines - when there are one - are generally fairly weak. His strength lies in the depth of thought placed within the short pages, and the general mysteries of the infinite and reality.<br />I'll admit, the first few stories I didn't really 'get'. I read 'Tln, Uqbar, Orbis Tertius', a story of an encyclopedic entry about a fictional world, and while it was enjoyable, seemed a mere flight of fancy. The second story, 'The Approach to Al-Mu'tasim' seemed to be a short variation on the theme, and by the time that one was finished, I wasn't particularly impressed. But then I read 'Pierre Menard, Author of Don Quixote', a treatise on why the 20th century scholar and writer Pierre Menard has written a better version of Don Quixote than Cervantes, even though the two versions are identical, and everything clicked. I realised that Borges was not trying to entertain me - and the language used and obscure literary/historical references thrown about certainly don't aid casual enjoyment - rather he was exercising my mind. By considering the ideas he presents about reality and infinity under the careful tutelage of his examples, I was, by the end of the book, struggling with concepts that I perhaps previously wouldn't have considered.<br />The seventh story, 'The Library of Babel', was perhaps my favourite, dealing with a library that had the every single possible combination of letters within its hallowed halls. The story was an essay on life in the Library, but in actuality it was about the nature of infinity and what it means when it is applied to something tangible, like a library, or a garden.<br />The second part of the novel, Artifices, had more of a story-telling flavour, but generally these fictional setups were used mainly to get two characters talking to one another so that they could discuss reality. While they were all amazing and essential reads, I enjoyed the more abstract pieces in the first part, 'The Garden of Forking Paths'.<br />Borges is a difficult writer. He has an extensive vocabulary and enormous literary and historical knowledge to draw from, and he uses both without hesitation. The ideas he presents are deep, the fact that he is willing to share them in the way that he has suggests to me that he is aware that his readers are intelligent people capable of greater thought. Don't let the dry tone fool you though, while this book can't be said to be enjoyable in a swashbuckling, rolicking sense, Ficciones is a phenomenal, mind-blowing, absolutely essential read, I recommend it to everyone.	2004-04-20
US	30652561	R1BUR52WSKAM6R	0060931671	183823737	The Crying of Lot 49 (Perennial Classics)	Books	4	10	12	N	N	The Crying of Lot 49	The Crying of Lot 49 was Pynchon's response to people who considered his first novel, V, to be too difficult, too complex and just plain old too weird to stomach.  It is considerably shorter, clocking it at only 152 pages, but each one is jam packed full of patented Pynchon weirdness, with zany characters, ridiculously implausible scenarios and plots within plots within plots.<br />Speaking of plot, there are two ways to describe it.  One is to say that it is about Oedipa Maas wandering California trying to figure out a conspiracy that seems to involve everyone she knows.  The other is to read the book.  There really isn't any middle ground. The problem with that is that the former doesn't mention Vatican cover-ups, child movie stars, highly lethal cans of hair spray, horn symbols, a band by the name of the Paranoids who aren't, LSD-addicted radio announcers or archaic postal systems trying to destroy American society, while the latter would take up just over 150 pages, far beyond the scope of this review.<br />The writing is typical Pynchon.  Some sections meander into ruminations on a character's psyche, or page-long sojourns into plays, conspiracies, wanderings, etc.  Other paragraphs are so fast paced that if your mind wanders for a second,  you'll miss something important and have no idea what is going on.  Often these crucial sentences are buried within a morass of extraneous information, so readers should pay attention at all times.  <br />The names are fun and ridiculous.  Mike Fallopian, the duchy of Squamuglia, Yoyodyne, Wharfinger, Chiclitz, Dr Hilarious, the list goes on.  Settings are predictable only in the way that they will be completely unpredictable, in essence, you never know when or where the story is going to take you next.<br />Does it end satisfactorily?  Can Pynchon recover all the myriad threads into a cohesive whole?  No.  But then, if he did, the story wouldn't make sense.  By being about paranoia and conspiracy, an actual concrete resolution would hurt the book more than it would help.  The closing sentence is a perfect example of this, and will probably seem frustrating to a casual reader, but if you sit back and think about it, no other ending would suffice.  A masterful work, one that is extremely accessible for those people who are (rightly) intimidated by the monster that is Gravity's Rainbow.	2004-04-17
US	30652561	RAW8Z33YZISR1	014100200X	751870359	The Royal Family: A Novel	Books	4	7	7	N	N	The Royal Family	The Royal Family is Vollmann's sprawling, epic examination of life on the streets and the depths that it can drive people to. It could also be considered a study on addiction, drugs, death, love and family. The book looks at its subject matter with such clear, uncensored eyes that some readers will find it simply too offensive to read, this book is NOT for the faint of heart.<br />Henry Tyler is a private eye hired to find the Queen of the Whores, an almost mythical wanderer of the streets that the more law-abiding portion of San Fransisco consider a legend, if they even know of her existence at all. Through a series of events involving a suicide and many, many trips to various prostitutes, Henry discovers the Queen and is brought into her underground world of drugs and prostitution. The 'Inner Court' of the Queen is the focus of much of the book, we see the world through the eyes of Tyler as he descends further and further into the murky depths of the black underbelly of civilised society.<br />The characters are surprisingly sympathetic. 200 pages into the book, I was in love with all of the 'inner court' prostitutes, if only because they are shown with such an unflinching sense of humanity that it is impossible not too. Sure, these women sell their bodies for money - and, in plumbing the depths of prostitution, we understand just how much the word 'sell' is apt for what they do - but they still have their dreams and fears, hopes for the futures and regrets of the past. Many are hopeless, considering the physical gifts they have to offer as their only positive aspects, while others have wearily resigned themselves to a life they hate because it is all they know. Above them all stands the Queen, she is their protector, their nurturer, their mother. Often, the novel looks at this relationship in a religious light, the characters themselves referring to each other as being united through the 'Mark of Cain'.<br />As events progress and Tyler falls obsessively in lovewith the Queen, he begins to fall further and further, eventually becoming everything his rich, successful brother John - who, interestingly, is just as unhappy with is life, although the bleak honesty with which Tyler begins to live allows him to see this, but not John - has always feared he would: homeless, diseased, poverty-stricken. I felt that the book did wallow too long in Tyler's disgrace, the last two hundred pages were somewhat of a struggle because, by that stage, I got the fact that falling into black was the only possible hope for him, but it seemed as though the author really needed to hammer this point home.<br />This book is extremely graphic and offensive. It looks unflinchingly at an unhappy way of life, and inside these pages you will find rape, murder, torture, pedophilia, incest, etc. There are very few rays of sunshine to be found, and for me, when I read it, I often felt depressed and unbearably sad for a few hours afterwards. However, I think that that is the books greatest strength. I have never had to even consider that section of the populace before, but because the book forced me to, I was able to come to a better understanding of 'the life', to sympathise with the struggles a person in that situation must face. I am now able to look at them as people rather than whores, as experiences and lives rather than useless shreds of humanity who sell themselves for money. And that is a wonderful thing, in my opinion.	2004-04-17
US	30652561	R16SW5FLWG3XFX	0140132708	903668876	Midnight's Children	Books	3	190	216	N	N	Midnight's Children	Midnight's Children is considered to be Rushdie's masterpiece; it won the Booker Prize, and then, in 1993, it won the 'Booker of Bookers', ie the best book to have won the Booker Prize in the first 25 years of the award.  In addition to this, Rushdie's reputation is not built upon his literary merits so much as the surrounding controversy of another book, The Satanic Verses, which all but condemned him to years of hiding and constant moving about in an effort to escape fundamentalist Muslim assassination-attempts. <br />The premise for this novel is amazing.  At the stroke of midnight on August 15th, 1947, India achieved independence and became a valid country, free from the shackles of Britain.  One thousand and one children were born in the hour from midnight to 1am, one thousand and one children with magical powers, the potency of which increases the closer the child was born to midnight.  <br />The narrator, Saleem Sinai, was one of two children born on the exact stroke of midnight, and throughout the novel various allusions to yin and yang, good and evil, up and down, et cetera are made between Saleem and Shiva, the other child, but unfortunately nothing really comes from this.  Although mentioned often and with great vehemence on the part of the narrator, Shiva never really came across as a 'bad guy', or even someone that should be worried about at all.<br />The story meanders through thirty odd years of life before Saleem's birth, detailing the lives and idiosyncracies of his parent's and grandparent's adventures, which, admittedly, are described with great sweeping motions and tantalizing literary strokes.  Sentences marvel, paragraphs sing with wit or beauty, but...what was the point?  After Saleem is born, events take an incredibly epic turn, as the implications of the children of midnight are revealed, but then, the narrator just sort of forgets about it and rambles on about things that, given the immensely intruiging concept of the children, just doesn'tspark any interest.  <br />The narrator is an interesting writer.  He repeats reiterates recapitulates words in threes, often, and that works.  He used parentheses artfully, and well.  But the narrator foreshadows everything and anything, so that we are always reading about events that will come to pass, soon or otherwise, and in cryptic ways, 'He kept himself in the background of our lives, always, except twice...once when he left us; once when he returned to destroy the world by accident'.  It is an exceptionally annoying literary technique, serving only to make the reader wish that events would hurry up so that the portentous-sounding episodes will occur, but...even they are marred by fore-shadowing and never really live up to the promises, anyway.<br />The last one hundred and fifty pages drag, seemingly without cohesion, in an effort to combine the plot-threads, to actually make the children a part of the story - and, disappointingly, they really aren't very predominant - but it doesn't work.  Then, in a whirlwind twenty pages, everything is tied up neatly, the children are dealt with, and the book ends.  The fantastic premise never really lived up to its promise, and the book suffers.<br />Is Midnight's Children a failure?  No.  As a story, it is enjoyable, written well, and at times, beautiful.  Certain passages are crafted with amazing skill, and the narrator is a pleasant enough fellow.  But the concept of the midnight's children should have been ditched - the story would have worked well enough without them because they never really played a part - and the book would have been greater as the spectre of great things to come would not have existed.	2004-04-14
US	30652561	R2IGXRBI5YHK25	0312421273	647099960	The Corrections: A Novel	Books	4	2	4	N	N	The Corrections	The Corrections is the over-hyped novel by Franzen, the man who famously rejected Oprah's request to include his book in her off-again on-again Book Club. At its most basic, this book is about a woman trying to get her family home together for Christmas while her husband falls apart. At its deepest, it is a look at the lives of middle-America, the failings, the hopes, the achievements, the sadness. Ultimately, it is about the corrections that everyone puts into place in their lives, but that can never truly be achieved.<br />Enid Lambert wants to bring her family together for one last Christmas before her husband, Alfred, crumbles to pieces from Parkinson's and Alzheimer's. The novel briefly touches on this in the beginning, then spends 400-odd pages examining and summarising the lives of each Lambert - From Gary, the no-nonsense, successful older brother, to Denise, the sexually uncertain, confused youngest daughter, to Chip, Alfred's favourite and the intellectual, who runs to Eastern Europe to solves his problems. We also experience the world through the eyes of Enid and Alfred at various points in time, learning just why and how everyone turned out the way they did.<br />The way the Corrections is written is interesting, but hardly unique. In one section, we are 'made' to dislike another character, but of course by the time we have walked a hundred pages in their shoes, we now appreciate them also. This means that, by the time Christmas does come around, we understand the position of every family member, and nobody is a true 'bad guy'. Perhaps Chip received the least amount of treatment, but this may be because his 'story' is dealt with at the very start and the very end, so we never really get a chance to see him in the entirety of the others. By the time an emotional commitment to the novel has been made, Chip's part is over. <br />So does the book live up to the hype? No. Could it? Not really. By declining Oprah's invitation, the book entered the minds of people who normally wouldn't care, thus it has more of a general awareness than any other book I can think of in recent memory. But it is a worthwhile book, and highly recommended. Watching Alfred's disintegration is unbearably sad, the second to last section is probably the saddest piece of writing I have read in a while. I was a little disappointed by the very last section, which served as a summarising, 'what are they up to now' exercise, but I don't really have all that much to complain about. Highly recommended.	2004-04-14
US	30652561	R1HZQIR3EDJFSR	0375719180	211821642	The Miracle Life of Edgar Mint: A Novel	Books	3	12	23	N	N	The Miracle Life of Edgar Mint	The Miracle Life of Edgar Mint is a reasonably short book that feels long, unfortunately dragging in the mid to end sections after a promising beginning. Not without its charms, the book eventually fails from the lack of ambition in what, at the end, is revealed to be an utterly simple and forgettable story.<br />Edgar Mint is an unlucky boy who gets his head run over by a truck when he is seven. He survives and wanders about in hospitals and boarding schools, gets adopted and finds out the truth about himself. That is pretty much the entire plot. He is a likeable enough character, but we never really get inside his head at all - No reasons are given for any of his actions, which is odd considering the book is written from the first person perspective.<br />The author uses an unusual technique, one that I think doesn't work, it serves only to jar the reader out of what is happening. Presented as the writings of an older Edgar reflecting on his youth, occasionally the narrative slips into third person, for no real reason, with no explanation, for maybe a paragraph or two, then goes back to first person, without even acknowledging what happened. I don't know why this technique was used, and it frustrated me every time it happened, which was often.<br />Plot-wise, it isn't very strong. Edgar wanders about getting into adventures, the consequences of which are, once he moves on to the next place, never dwelt on, and don't even seem to exist. Sure, a few characters make an appearance from earlier times, but it seems tacked on as merely a way to give Edgar some closure.<br />A particular annoyance was the character of Barry, a doctor who saves Edgar's life when he is run over by the truck. For some reason - never explained - Barry decides to devote his entire life to helping Edgar whether he wants it or not, breaking the law for him, giving him anything he wants and generally acting very creepy. I expected a sort of child-molestation storyline with Barry, but that never eventuated - Apparently Barry wanted to waste 8 years of his life trying to help a kid he met once. Sorry, not plausible.<br />In the end, everything wraps up neatly and Edgar has a happy life. Problem is, he isn't strong enough a character to exist outside the framework of the novel. For a book to work, the characters need to exist as well offstage as they do on, and Edgar wouldn't. He seems to have no feelings, no thoughts, nothing: He is a reactive character, not an active one. So, naturally it doesn't work when, at the end, he is supposed to have become an upstanding citizen - an active participant in life.<br />I couldn't really recommend this. It wasn't a bad book, but at the end, 'what was the point?' is the only question I could muster.	2004-03-20
US	30652561	R2YHF6RY4S0ZTS	0805037586	439117283	Mason & Dixon: A Novel	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Mason & Dixon	How can I possibly summarise and explain a Pynchon novel and give it any true justice? I can't, but I'll try. Mason & Dixon is about two guys making a line separating Pennsylvania from Maryland. Of course, that description is about as apt as saying that Moby Dick is about a man searching for a whale. Simply put, the fun is in the journey, the minutiae of their adventures, and the beautifully crafted sentences and paragraphs.<br />Mason & Dixon is constructed in a style that was apparently all the rage in the late 18th century - the time which this novel is set. Here is a taste: 'Found this down at that Market near the Gallows, -'tis a Fiji Islander's Guitar, first introduc'd there two hundred years ago by Portuguese Jesuits, according to the Malay that sold me it.' Random (to my knowledge) capitalisation of words and strange contractions run rampant, but once you get used to the rhythm, it really works, and sets a distinct voice for this story that many other novels lack.<br />Plot-wise, it is about Charles Mason and Jeremiah Dixon plotting the Line that separates two states: Maryland and Pennsylvania. Naturally they don't even begin doing this until about page 350, but that is beside the point. Along the way, they get into many crazy adventures, a lot of them happening in or around taverns and pubs. For example: A mechanical duck that becomes sentient and, angry about years of organic ducks being cooked in France, takes out his revenge on the premier cook at the time, but eventually falls into an obsessive love with him. Getting stoned with George Washington and having good ol' Martha help out when the munchies arrive. Inventing pizza. Visiting a travelling freak show where the prime attraction is a pickled ear that listens to wishes and sometimes grants them. A man swallows a clock, which turns into an immortal, vegetable-clock that drives everyone nearby but him insane with its tick-tocking. A worm thrown into a well soon grows so huge it makes its nest around acastle. A man who turns into a beaver at every full moon. <br />Pynchon writes exquisite sentences, some of which run on and on, and it can be a real challenge to decipher their true meaning. Some, I'm sure, serve only to show just how obtuse and elegant the English language can be, and as with Gravity's Rainbow, Pynchon is rather fond of using mathematical descriptions to get his point across.<br />Of particular note is the ending, when Mason and Dixon are older, their adventures over, the only events remaining in their lives being reminiscing. These conversations, between two men who shared years over several continents, is poignant and truly touching. Which was especially odd considering that, during the novel, I didn't really feel much of a connection to either of them, though that can perhaps be attributed to the difficulties of their language.<br />The greatest problem with Mason & Dixon is that it doesn't compare to Gravity's Rainbow. And while a book should be evaluated in its own, in the face of such a behemoth, it simply wasn't possible. For all intents and purposes, Mason & Dixon is a very straight-forward novel with a mostly pre-determined plot: that being the lives of Mason and Dixon. The only room for deviation lies in the adventures of others, or the recollections around a bar table, while enjoyable, unfortunately don't hold a candle to Gravity's Rainbow's frantic change of time, scenery, characters, narrative voice, and so on. <br />So is Mason & Dixon a disappointment? Certainly not. If you've got the patience and the will, there is a fantastic adventure, laden with magick and mathematicks (the k is purposely included), and the book is dense, running at 772 pages. But is Mason & Dixon a disappointment in light of what the author has done before? Unfortunately, the answer is yes.	2004-03-14
US	30652561	R2F8RGEGMP628C	0156453800	817453848	Invisible Cities	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Invisible Cities	Invisible Cities is, at its most basic, a constant dialogue between Marco Polo and Kublai Khan as Polo recounts his journeys throughout the lands and describes the cities that the Khan will never see himself. At its most complex, this book is about the make-up of our own lives, the level of insight wrapped around the fantastic cities is simply amazing. <br />A recurring theme through the novel is that of the sadness associated with life, and the general melancholy awareness that afflicts any place. Octavia, the spider-web city, is a city hanging between two mountains, existing entirely through a system of webbing and nets. The inhabitants, Marco Polo writes, do not live in fear of their existence like other city-dwellers, for they know that the netting will only last so long. Almost every city carries with it a similar lesson, a similar warning, a similar metaphor. None of the cities are truly happy, their single exception serving not to highlight their uniqueness, but to instead show that where they are not strong, they are weak.<br />Here, to show an example of the sheer originality and wonder of these cities, are some examples:<br />A city replicated many times, and when the occupants become disillusioned with their jobs and wives, they all simply get up and move to the next city to take up new occupations, new wives or husbands and new lives, and the cycle begins anew, but the cit, of all the invisible cities, remains always the same. A city where there is nothing but the water plumbing making up the dwellings, and naked women bathe in bathtubs and showers suspended in the air by nothing but their piping's. <br />To me, the point of this book was to highlight a good or a bad side to human life and embody this within a particular city. Then, each aspect can be examined and shown to be lacking, or sufficient, based entirely on its own merits. No single city could truly exist, but instead each aspect of the cities exist within those we live in today, and by isolating and examining these we can perhaps make our own lives - and the lives of others - better for it. The constant dialogues between Kublai Khan and Marco Polo serve only to reinforce this belief; the two men often speaking at each other in metaphors and life-lessons. In particular, the city of Eusapia is amazing, I won't describe it though, I'll just say that its description alone is worth the price of admission.<br />This book gets my absolute highest recommendation.	2004-03-14
US	30652561	RRKF8U1MYDI27	0375725784	381316770	A Heartbreaking Work of Staggering Genius	Books	4	4	7	N	N	A Heartbreaking Work of Staggering Genius	AHWOSG is a post-modern memoir, a look at the life of Eggers, some of it real, some of it fiction (we're told), mostly real, though, with events condensed and paced better for a book, and, wait-<br />I'm writing a review aren't I? I'm probably going to go on about the plot of the book, then the way it was written, mentioning how it is self-referential, then references the fact that it is self-referential in an acknowledgement of the fact that it is a book and that you, the reader, are reading it, just like this review. Then I'll talk about what I liked, say, for example, the conversations between Toph and Dave, or the whole Might Magazine story-lines, and then what I didn't, that being, well, the tendency to drag on in some bits, especially the end, which went forever, much past the time when it could have stopped, and satisfied.<br />That, above, is indicative of the sort of experience present in the book. It opens with a neat little how-to-read guide, the acknowledgements section goes for pages and pages (and can, apparently, be skipped), and in my version at least, there are addendums, which I didn't read at the start of the book because it might have spoiled things for me, and which I couldn't be bothered going back and reading now. <br />The whole thing is an enjoyable read, if you can handle the self-referential, gee-whiz I'm writing a book that you're reading aspect, and while nothing earth-shattering happens outside of the first 50-pages or so, it is the voice of the main character that holds everything together. You get a real feel for him, and yes, he does ramble a bit, like I said, the end in particular suffers for this, but on the whole, he is fun to read. Toph is great, though he isn't really a 3d character so much as a sounding board for the narrator's problems, or a way for him, and us, to relieve the stress of a tense moment or a melancholy recollection.<br />Something worth noting is that, without the gimmickry, this book would have still worked, afact which doesn't always apply to other books with literary tricks. That in itself is pretty high praise for a book that does, especially at the start, rely heavily on gimmicks and wow, can a book do that? moments.<br />Recommended, but you should probably read the start to know what you are getting into before you buy it. It could easily not be your cup of cake.	2004-03-14
US	30652561	R2AR74C62WJGB6	0374511713	180455749	Aura: A Novel (English and Spanish Edition)	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Aura	Aura is a short story that is written beautifully, capturing the magic and horror of an old widow living with her niece and the secret that binds the two. <br />The plot is fairly basic, as there isn't really much time to get deep into any of the characters. There are only four, although that is debatable as one is only known through diary recollections. The prime focus of the story is Senora Consuelo, the ageing widow, as the young historian, Felipe Montero, hired to re-assemble her dead husband's memoirs learns more and more about their dark past. Felipe becomes obsessed with the ethereally beautiful niece, Aura, his dreams are filled with feverish images of her and him, together, declaring their love.<br />The novella is written in an interesting style, using 2nd person perspective (You did this, then you did that), and it works well. It means that we never really get an insight into Felipe's thoughts, but at the same time we only experience things through his eyes. The writing itself alternates between dark imagery involving religion, flowers, cats, and the house the story takes place within and obsessive beauty and fragility, as when Aura is described or mysterious things are occurring. Particularly haunting are the descriptions of the gloomy house filled with the refuse of fifty years of isolation. <br />The ending of the story wasn't expected, or at least, while I had an idea of what was going to occur, Fuentes took my expectations and extended them to a direction I hadn't predicted and was horrified with - but in the good way. This is a very dark story, and while there are flashes of beauty, these are generally shadowed by the somber tone and melancholy whisperings present throughout the novella. Highly recommended.	2004-03-07
US	30652561	R1XMZVOUL5KBEE	0380815923	418329284	Blackberry Wine: A Novel	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Blackberry Wine	Joanne Harris has created a wonderful story that isn't pretentious in the least, instead focusing on what she obviously considers the finer points in life - wine, food and the company of others. The story is fairly simple, but that is half the charm and happily the narrative flow stumbles only once, towards the end, but the mistake is rectified and I was left feeling satisfied by the turn of the last page.<br />Jay Mackintosh is a writer famous for his first book, Jackapple Joe. Since then he has had writer's block, producing by-the-numbers pulp sci-fi under a pen name to take care of his debts and to keep him in the lifestyle he enjoys. He is widely considered to be the writer who doesn't write, his girlfriend in particular contemptuous of his choices. He receives six bottles of wine from an old friend from his childhood, and here his adventures begin. For the first half of the book, each chapter jumps between his childhood and the challenges he coped with and the friendships he made, and the present day, where he becomes progressively unsatisfied with his joyless life. He eventually buys a property in a tiny little town in France that reminds him of 'the good old days'. He begins to write again, becomes friends with the residents and rediscovers the beauty of life.<br />And it works really well. Harris has a real gift with words, in particular when describing earthy scenes and food and drink. I felt like I should be drinking a bottle wine while reading, everything was just so rich and tangible. The childhood scenes are tinged with nostalgia and probably aren't as enjoyable as the present day events, which eventually take over the entire book anyway.<br />The only problem was when his girlfriend visits from London to take back her man. I found this section - mercifully brief but unfortunately it hampered the conclusion - as tacked on, in a way. I understood that it was necessary for Jay to truly learn his lessons, but I didn't like it at all. For a book that had pretty much coasted along with the characters enjoying each other and their surroundings, to suddenly have this conflict mar the pace of the novel, well, it didn't work. Thankfully this section is resolved fairly quickly and we can go back to the sedated pace of before. The ending is expected, but welcome, I could see it coming a mile away, and when it did, I was satisfied.<br />Overall, I would recommend this to someone who wants to take a relaxing wander through the vineyards of rural France. Nothing is hurried, no great life-truths are unveiled, but it never tries to do this so that can be forgiven. Highly recommended.	2004-02-29
US	30652561	R3B0IXGMZ2U0JG	0156011484	913706808	Some Rain Must Fall: And Other Stories	Books	3	4	6	N	N	Some Rain Must Fall	There's no denying that Faber is a good writer - not great, just good - but is that really enough? I enjoyed all of the short stories in this book, but only two or three really made me sit back and reflect on the quality of what I had just read. <br />The stories take one of two paths. They generally open up with something weird, a weird first sentence (After fours hours and seventeen minutes there was a raindrop, and Ivan sprang to life) then become normal, or they start out normal (Upstairs, a strange man was going through her things) and end up weird. Not a bad thing, certainly, but it was sort of depressing to know what style the story would take based upon its first sentence, or at the very least, the first paragraph.<br />The weird stories were enjoyable, but the normal ones were better. Faber has a very down-to-earth grip on reality, the dialogues, internal thoughts and actions of the characters all reflect this. Even when something very strange is going on (fish flying through the air, for example), a mother still has enough sense of order to want to arrange her daughter's clothes properly. At times this works really well in the weird stories, but it generally works phenomenally well in the normal ones. Probably the most normal - a sweet story about a man falling in love with a woman while working at a porno shop - was the best. The second last story, I put it down and said, wow. It wasn't earth-shattering, it didn't want to and won't change the world, but it was very nice and would resonate with most adults.<br />My main complaint would be the inconsistency. Faber has a flair for description and a broad imagination, surely then he could have written a 'weird' short story book and a 'normal' one, keeping the two flavours distinct? But they were all bunched together and I felt myself jarred out of the reading experience at the sudden and absolute change of tone, pace and style, which is never a good thing.<br />Overall, I enjoyed it. There were flaws, to be sure, but I never regretted a new page. Not a single story struck me as boring, or superfluous, and apart from the weird/normal inconsistency, the book was a good adventure into Faber's mind. I'm curious to see if he can pull off a larger book (especially considering one of his books is huge), as a lot of the stories didn't have traditional endings at all.	2004-02-25
US	30652561	R3ESVGXZGOVOKQ	0393319296	728974914	Invisible Monsters: A Novel	Books	2	3	6	N	N	Invisible Monsters	Give me a cheap literary trick.<BR>Give me redundancy.<br />Oh, Chuck, why do you do this to yourself? You find a neat little saying, a nice trick, a clever play of words and then you ram it into the ground until what's left is beyond dead, beyond interesting, beyond taste. Pile on sex, drugs and twists-a-plenty and you have Invisible Monsters.<br />The story is reasonable, I suppose. Definitely enough there to keep the page turning. A mildly successful model has had half of her face shot off, by her best friend, her ex-fiance, who knows? She has to learn to cope with being horribly ugly, a monster. She meets up with a pre-op trans-sexual and they have adventures together, stealing drugs from people's homes with another friend.<br />But the twists are ridiculous. We are shown various tid-bits of the mostly nameless narrator's life and every single character brought into the story ends up twisting and turning about until they are all in this tight little web of lies. The problem is that life isn't like that. People can disappear from your life and never, ever show up. They can appear, change your life in a certain way, then disappear, and then resurface years too late. But they don't become ever single focal point of your entire adult life. Everyone you meet is not directly affected by and affecting every other person you meet. Life just doesn't work like that, but in Chuck's world, it does. Which makes for some not very believable writing. <br />The characters are all one dimensional caricatures. Perhaps that is the point, and I think it is, but it leaves me unsatisfied. I honestly couldn't imagine a single one of these characters living outside the fairly tedious storyline. They couldn't breathe and live on their own, they don't have enough substance.<br />Unfortunately, in the end, the twists make or break this book. And they aren't even that interesting. Once you see the first one coming - and it isn't too hard to figure out - all you need to do is extrapolate and you have the entire book. Hell, the first chapter is the end sequence, it's like there is a huge, neon sign pointing you where to go and what direction to take, so your mind does, and when you find out that you were right, the disappointment is immense.<br />Overall, I guess I wasn't happy with this book. It read too much like Choke, another Palahniuk story, and his writing techniques are repetitive and redundant. It was a quick read though, all it took was a Sunday afternoon, and I guess my time was better spent than if I had sat around doing nothing. I guess.	2004-02-22
US	30652561	R289DOPPMYQ44O	0312280122	106059277	Plowing the Dark: A Novel	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Plowing the Dark	An hour after I have finished reading Plowing the Dark, my feelings are still mixed. On one hand, Powers' prose was simply wonderful with detailed, intricate sentences spilling from every page. The two alternate sections were cut to and from in such a way that I never felt like I was reading the 'wrong' part of the storyline, and I was always anxious to return to the other thread. On the other hand, the storyline pretty much didn't exist, it was more of a two year chunk of life, which is fine normally, but when the ending - as such there was - seemed as tacked on as it did, I was a little disappointed.<br />But first the two plots. One deals with a virtual reality room being created, the 'Cavern', and we watch as the main character, Adie, learns about it and comes to terms with it. The premise for it is very interesting, but it never really went anywhere: They simply sat around making the Cavern better for two years. While the interaction between people was certainly interesting, and the little comments on society that Powers allowed himself were insightful, I was left wondering what the point of it all was.<br />The second seems completely unrelated, and for the most part it is. A teacher, Tai, has moved to the Middle East to teach willing students conversational English, and soon after he arrives, he is kidnapped and held as a political hostage. Each of these scenes - and there were many - involving his capture and incarceration were written from a 'you look over there, you do this' type perspective, which really worked. Because it is natural for a reader to expect that he will be freed by the end of the book, his section certainly had a clear beginning, middle and end that I could hold on to while the other thread of the story meandered.<br />But then, at the end, the two storylines come together in a way that to me, seems completely impossible and contrived. The end existed merely to bring an end to the book and to connect two completely disparate lives. Which is a shame, because by the end of the book I was fully immersed into both Adie and Tai's lives, what they had been and what they wanted to become. In a way, I felt cheated by the tenuous link forged between them, but to be honest I had no idea how the author could possibly put the two ideas together. They are not even remotely similar: an artist working on the age's greatest technological achievement and a captured Muslim-American. I certainly couldn't link the two together, and clearly neither could the author.<br />But the writing was good, very good in some parts, and the philosophy behind the Cavern was interesting. I'd recommend it for a reader who wants to enjoy what is happening, but not to expect anything meaningful in terms of story.	2004-02-22
US	30652561	RR7AZUG54DUQ3	0802133908	163605681	Pedro Paramo	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Pedro Paramo	Short review - Amazing<br />Long review - I was very impressed with this book. The story - if it can be summed up so simply - is of a man who goes to the town where his father lived on the request of his deceased mother. He wanders about the dead town, running into the ghosts of previous residents, discussing his father with them and getting a glimpse into their lives.<br />The story soon shifts focus away from him - and the 'I' narration - and instead moves about from person to person, each little experience illuminating the life of his father, Pedra Paramo, in greater detail. In some people's minds he was a villain, in others, a good man, in others, simply a rich man who did what rich men do. Occasionally little snippets of conversation float through the book, often these aren't attributed to anyone and would require a re-read to recognise as the reader becomes more familiar with the characters.<br />Later, the narration moves away from 'he said she said' back to 'I', but this time the 'I' is Pedro himself. Here he pines for his dead wife, Susana, and his thoughts are only of love and glorifying her image. Yet, generally in sections immediately following it, we witness scenes where he either takes part in or is a silent witness to horrible deeds, so we are left to wonder just what sort of man Pedro Paramo is? And the best part of the book is that it does not try to answer this for us.<br />Gabriel Garcia Marquez lists Rulfo as one of the two great influences of his life, as well as Kafka's Metamorphosis, and it shows. In Comala, people who die never really leave and an air of magic and realistic exaggeration (if that makes sense) permeates every person and every action. The seeds of Macondo (from 100 Years of Solitude) are more than evident here, in some ways this seems like the skeleton novella for Marquez's masterpiece. Often this was a bad thing, in that I felt I was getting a watered down version, but in other ways it was simply amazing to read another take -and the original Latin American take - on magic surrealism.<br />This book is short, 124 pages, and a quick read. I highly recommend it, particularly if you enjoy Marquez.	2004-02-18
US	30652561	R39Q5SVLMFOWLH	0140231900	361422595	Mr. Vertigo	Books	2	1	5	N	N	Mr. Vertigo	I wanted so much to like this book.<br />The premise is awesome: A crazy old Hungarian called Master Yehudi picks up a mostly homeless boy from St Louis with the promise of teaching him to fly. What could be greater than that? So for the next one hundred and fifty pages we go through the lessons and teachings of the master as he tries to teach Walt to be everything he couldn't: a boy capable of flying up and down and left and right and swooping and spinning and somersaults.<br />The narrator is, for the most part, told in the voice of a down on his luck boy, with appropriate slang and cadence that I would expect from a kid in the late twenties. It is a joy to read because of that, it really is. Very stubborn character to, the things he puts up with from master Yehudi is simply amazing. And in the end it pays off: he can fly and they set off to make their riches.<br />The next fifty pages or so recounts their travels and mishaps, fortunes and predicaments. Still an enjoyable book. The front cover of my book shows a Ku Klux Klan member, so I was predicting the direction the book would take, and I wasn't happy that it was going that way. But then it didn't, and the KKK played a very very minor part. <br />So what went wrong? *spoilers but you really shouldn't read this book anyway* Walt can't fly any more, master Yehudi recommends he should stop. Everything is still ok, the stage is set for the perfect scene where master Yehudi reveals how he learned the knowledge of flight and what the problems are. But that never happens. Instead they have cook up a stupid plan to go to Hollywood. Then that fails. Then Walt becomes a criminal. Then he owns a nightclub. Then he poorly explains to the reader why he wants to kill some random baseball star and goes to war. Then he returns and marries someone. Then she dies thirty years later and he meets up with some old friends. Sounds a bit rushed? That's how it felt for me reading it. All that happened in a hundred pages, and this wasa very quick hundred pages where important events were glossed over and the narrator started rambling on about things I didn't care about. <br />To sum it up: the author sums it up. That is as good as I can tell it. The book went from a well-narrated story about a boy being able to fly to a rambling memoir that rushed to complete the end (if fifty years of a person's life can be called the end) of a boring person's life. <br />I was so disappointed by this. I can't recommend it, not at all. Maybe Paul Auster is a good author - and, technically, he is - but I'm going to be wary about reading something by him any time soon. I'd still like to look at the New York Trilogy, but after this...	2004-02-17
US	30652561	R3C0M2YBQCU1QV	0330261568	988003254	Our Ancestors: "Cloven Viscount", "Baron in the Trees" and "Non-existent Knight" (Picador Books)	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Our Ancestors	Calvino writes with a child's sense of wonder. Each of the stories within - and there are three, which I'll review separately in a minute - Each one has improbable story lines and magical situations, but at the same time these events can be accepted as reality easily because everyone else does. When Cosimo ascends to the trees for his entire life, people are confused as to why he would do it but the sheer ridiculousness of it all is never questioned. <br />He is an easy author to read, and an entertaining one. All three of the stories seemed somehow elemental, enduring, as though he did not create them so much as found them. The stories were waiting for him like a statue waits for an sculptor or a painting for a painter.<br />The Cloven Viscount<br />The shortest of the three stories, The Cloven Viscount is about a man who is split in half by a cannon ball. One half returns to his kingdom where he rules, it is the evil half and goes about terrorising the peasants. The other half wanders about for a few years doing good deeds until it comes to its kingdom of birth. Naturally the two halves dislike each other, and even more naturally they both fall in love with the same woman. The ending is predictable, but it is the writing that makes this story worth it. The peasants and everyone simply accept that their lord is half a man, and an evil one at that (He goes around halving everything he finds: Pears, trees, butterflies, mushrooms, etc), and they accept as well when the 'Good Un' shows up. <br />Baron in the Trees<br />My favourite, and the longest. At twelve, Cosimo decides in a fit of anger to climb up into the trees and never return. We follow his adventures in the branches - finding friends, surviving, reading books and even falling in love - and this is just wonderful. Every page was a joy to read and the whole thing was remarkably believable. The writing was so amazing that I myself didn't want to walk around while I read it (I was reading it on a couch) becauseI felt like it wouldn't be right. The book is worth buying for this story alone.<br />I did have a small problem with this story, though. There is a fairly large section to do with a war and rebellion that, for me, went on too long. Even though the focus remained on Cosimo throughout all this, I felt that the main thread had moved away from him too much. Either way though, this story is amazing, and the war bit really isn't that long.<br />The Non-Existant Knight<br />I liked this one, but not as much as the other two. I think I was still so much in awe of the Baron in the Trees that I didn't fully appreciate this story until ~50 pages in, but once I had gotten that far I was hooked. Agiluf, the Non-Existant Knight is an entertaining enough character, and he does get into adventures, but I did get bored in certain patches. The narrating nun I found to be tiresome and I thought she broke the story up too much. And Rimbaudt? Uninteresting until the end.<br />But what an ending! Everything tied up neatly, and sadly, but humorously at the same time. In retrospect, the ending was predictable, I guessed it before it was announced, but that didn't change its impact or the sense of satisfaction I felt. Interestingly, even the rambling was described to an extant that I'm comfortable with and now, twenty minutes after I finished it, I've decided I enjoyed it a lot. <br />In conclusion, this book is highly recommended. I haven't read anything else by Calvino, but after this I most certainly want to.	2004-02-15
US	30652561	R2XI4Y45HMFN9P	0140187081	262422883	The Recognitions (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	26	32	N	N	The Recognitions	This book is long, really long, clocking in at about 950 pages, not including a worthy introduction by William Gass. And dense. Oh my is it dense. The first hundred pages in particular, with references to thousand year old religions/gods/spirits/rituals just thrown about as descriptive terms, which is obviously nice and easy to understand.<br />Gaddis writes amazing dialogue. His party scenes are the most memorable of all. Using the '-' to show new speakers could be confusing for some, I suppose, but for me it helped pull me further into the pages. For some reason, dialogue just seemed more natural. And it allowed him to have random comments from people in the periphery (Which he used a lot). I loved how a main character would mention something in passing, or discuss something with another character, and then, three hundred pages later, a random string of dialogue would mention/discuss it. Just brilliant. It'd be even more fun to go back through it and pick up the ones I undoubtedly missed.<br />I didn't get a lot of closure on anyone except Stanley, which was unexpected because I considered him a very minor character. Towards the end, however, Gaddis must have decided that using names was a bad idea, so who knows, I might have found out what happened to Otto, Wyatt, Esther, Esme, etc (Though I think I know what happened to Esme). Definitely need another read, but I'll put that off for at least a year or two - This book sucks you in, and well, I feel sad for leaving the highly educated world of the characters, but it also feels like a weight has been taken from my shoulders.	2004-02-08
US	30652561	RS0BIUHGXYB1S	0156027321	843703088	Life of Pi	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Life of Pi	I read Life of Pi in August 2003 and since then it has stayed close to the top of my ten favourite books of all time.  I honestly can't recommend this book highly enough.<br />The story is simple: A boy is stranded in a lifeboat with a tiger.  But it is the themes that the book deals with that make it so great.  By the end of the book, I was pondering the true nature of truth and the different branches of reality.<br />Truth - What is truth?  Is it something we know, or something we say?  If nobody knows the real truth behind something, is it better to believe the most desirable truth?<br />Religion - All have a different path to a heaven of some sort, so does it really matter which is right?  Are they all right?  Is the Islamic religion the road up the mountain while Christianity is the escalator?  <br />These are the questions that were in my mind at the end of the book.  Martel wisely does not give the answers (Are there really any?) but instead allows the reader to think it out for himself.  <br />I *highly* recommend this book.  The story is told well, the subject matter is refreshing enough, and the underlying tones will make you think long after Richard Parker has left your mind.	2004-01-27
US	30652561	R2RMODSI5LUIK7	0375701427	79852712	American Pastoral: American Trilogy (1) (Vintage International)	Books	5	13	14	N	N	American Pastoral	With American Pastoral, Philip Roth came pretty damn close to writing America after WW2. While I was reading Underworld, I thought Delillo had pulled it off, but now I know better. I'll admit, at the start I wasn't hooked in, but by about page 11 I became aware that I was reading greatness. You know that tingly feeling you get when you realise that the book you are about to read is special? That's what I had.<br />The story is fairly straight forward, but it is told in an interesting way. It seems that the narrator (Zuckerman) had an infatuation with the school sports hero who had everything: girls, success, looks, all that jazz. Later on in life when Zuckerman is a successful author he meets up with The Swede, who wrote him a letter asking to help write a biography of his father. Zuckerman is intrigued by this, mostly because of the power his high school years had over him, so he accepts. But the Swede doesn't tell him anything, then, at a reunion a few months later, he learns that the Swede died of cancer.<br />So, Zuckerman decided to recreate the Swede's life, find out where it went wrong and what happened. He has a few clues from the Swede's brother and from his own memories, but most of it is imagined. It is a good way for Zuckerman to meander on about how life affects you and how you affect it, what happens to people behind closed doors that we just don't know about and, touchingly, how a father can love his daughter so much when she disappoints him at every turn - and tragically at that.<br />The ending wasn't particularly punchy, but it finished well with a nice tie-up of the few threads that needed to be tied up at all. Like life, not everything ends on the point of a period, and American Pastoral reflects this. I feel that a younger man couldn't have written this book, that it really did need the weight of years and experience to create, and I feel better for having read it. <br />Highly recommended.	2004-01-19
US	30652561	RAWSXONTMIHTL	1841954608	701095379	Vernon God Little: A 21st Century Comedy in the Presence of Death (Man Booker Prize)	Books	2	7	12	N	N	Vernon God Little	Vernon God Little won the Booker Prize for 2003 which is pretty much the only reason why I bought the book. It is about a serial killer - or more accurately, someone who is implicated in school shootings - and the effects this has on the town. Doesn't sound too appealing to me, and the little bit I know about the author didn't help either.<br />The story starts the day after the school killings, the actual killer committed suicide and his only friend, Vernon Little, is accused of being an accomplice. For some weird reason, nobody in the town really seems to be affected by the killings (sixteen in total, I think). From what I remember there is only ONE mention of a grieving parent, and none of the kids seems to hate Vernon, his mother doesn't receive threatening letters, nothing. Not even her friends treat him different, which to me seems a little incorrect.<br />Time passes and the town doesn't change. Nobody seems to care except everyone wants Vernon. Nobody cares about the actual killer, just Vernon. A few subplots are picked up, then dropped. Finally *SPOILERS* Vernon goes to Mexico to get away from it all and in the WORST plot twist ever, is captured and put on death row. A fifteen year old. Then, *BIG SPOILERS* he is pardoned at the very end in the stupidest, most implausible chain of events ever. In fact, I'm not even sure how these events resulted in him being pardoned. And naturally the *MORE SPOILERS* ungainly girl that loves him at the start becomes amazingly beautiful at the end. Pathetic.<br />So yes, I wasn't too impressed with this book. There was a lot of swearing, which I guess is fun, but it seemed more for shock value than anything else. The writing was ok, the plot was horrible and the wrap-up left me feeling so cheated that I sat around for the rest of the weekend doing nothing. Disappointed.	2004-01-18
US	30652561	R190TEZH96A6ZZ	1400033543	555874448	You Shall Know Our Velocity	Books	4	2	4	N	N	You Shall Know Our Velocity	Not too sure about my thoughts on this book just yet. I absolutely loved the beginning, before the two left on their trip. After that, though, I kind of got a bit sick of it all, mainly because at times I felt the author was concentrating on describing the landscape and people's of the various countries than on the story - and the story certainly wasn't about how pretty/ugly Africa looks.<br />I enjoyed the way he wrote the story, certain parts were just fantastic (the jumping between trees part springs to mind especially), and the way the narrator internalised most things really worked. I felt that maybe he played up the attack and Jack's death a little too much - In the end, their emphasis on the story wasn't as great as it could have been. I also thought that he never properly explained the reason why he wanted to go around giving money away to poor people. Sure, it explained but not in a way that I felt was explicit enough.<br />I did get the feeling at times that Eggers was trying to be too subtle or too obscure with his character's reasons for their actions, but that could just be me not picking up on it enough. Who knows.	2004-01-16
US	30652561	R1D24ZS012PTBQ	0345310020	615857333	Chronicle of a Death Foretold	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Chronicle of a Death Foretold	Yet another gem from Marquez. I'll admit though, at first I was a little bored with it, but I think that is more because I just read three novellas by him in two days.<br />Chronicle is basically the story of a man who wants to find out just why the town in which he lived allowed Nasar to be killed by the Vicario twins, even though they made their intentions clear to almost everybody, and with hours of warning. The story is filled with Marquez' trademarks: sadness, solitude, love and effortlessly magical sentences that just seem to come out of nowhere and are beautifully nestled between more mundane efforts. <br />I think, at its heart, that this story is about how it is easy for everyone to just let someone else handle the problem, and that until something happens, it is almost impossible to believe that it will, no matter how much evidence there is before you. Literally over a dozen people had ample and easy opportunity to warn Nasar before the event, and in fact many were going to, but then they were distracted by something that seemed more important at that instance but in fact wasn't, and the chance was lost.<br />It is interesting the way he wrote it. As usual, he jumps back and forth through time, but it is easy to keep a handle on what is happening because, for the most part, the events in the past (Nasar's murder) are spoken about, whereas events in the present (roughly twenty years after the death) and described. It is worth noting that almost everybody who had the opportunity to prevent Nasar's death, and those intimately related to him, they all have lived the rest of their life in sadness, and so has the town in which the murder occurred. It is almost as though the very town itself has to pay for the crime, not the murderers themselves, they get off scott free (mostly).	2004-01-16
US	30652561	R39SSPVNKOTI33	0060907002	559469913	No One Writes to the Colonel and Other Stories	Books	5	17	20	N	N	No One Writes to the Colonel	This story, about an old, sad Colonel who spends his time waiting for a pension that, deep down, he knows he will never receive, is simply heart-breaking. Every paragraph is laced with sadness - sadness that his circumstances are how they are and sadness that it won't ever really change, not even in the promised January when the rooster will finally pay off for him and his wife and they can finally put the memory of their dead son behind them.<br />It was a short story, only ~60 pages long, so I'd highly recommend it to anyone who wants to read something quickly. It is rather depressing, probably made more so by the fact that the Colonel is a dignified man and that he knows that the misfortunes of his life are not his fault at all. Unfortunately, even at the end, there isn't any real hope. It does end with a great last line, but there is no retribution, no deliverance, no satisfaction to be had for the Colonel and his wife. I think that if Marquez had solved all of the Colonel's problems, it would have been a weaker story, so I'm not too upset about that.	2004-01-16
US	30652561	R1MR13KWDDA4TD	0060997028	542955149	Life Is Elsewhere	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A quiet meditation on life and art	Life is Elsewhere is the first novel by Milan Kundera that I have read, and it was the first he wrote. The edition I have, however, was edited and touched up to confirm to the more accurate French translation with the help of the author, so I am assuming it contains a little more maturity than when he wrote it thirty years ago.<br />The story is very simple, it is about a struggling young poet's first twenty or so years of life, from birth to death. He is the only named character (excluding Xavier, but don't worry about that), and this adds to the sense of familiarity we feel with him. <br />Another important character is his mother, and we are often privy to her emotions and thoughts away from her poet son. She is quite obsessive about him and wants to make sure his life is how he wants it poetically, but as he grows older, she becomes rather jealous of his growing attraction to females that aren't her.<br />I really enjoyed the narrator's tone of voice, at times he was an impartial observer, at other times he made little comments about the characters/predicaments, and at other times he threw all that away and started having a one-sided discussion with the reader - even indulging in little flights of fancy away from the main story. I have no idea if this is a Kunder staple or not, but it really worked in this story and I wouldn't mind seeing it again.<br />The poet is a selfish character, moreso as he becomes older, and this can sometimes be hard to read. He treats his girlfriend very poorly, and looks at life and love with the obsessive attitude of a teenager, which can sometimes be a little difficult to read. He considers his art and drive to be greater than any others, and this makes him arrogant, but he truly is a great poet so this is moderately understandable.<br />In summation, I very much recommend this book. It was very sad in places, and when it wasn't sad, it was a great meditation on life.	2004-01-16
US	30652561	R1O50FFM63AT0L	0679775439	730850906	The Wind-Up Bird Chronicle: A Novel	Books	3	2	8	N	N	Wind-Up Bird Chronicle	I finished this book last night and my feelings are mixed. On one hand, I absolutely loved the first three hundred pages or so, but the last three hundred...ugh, they just got too weird.<br />The story starts off simply enough. A young couple have lost their cat, probably in the nearby alley. Things start to get a bit weirder when the man (who is unemployed), starts receiving explicit phone calls and encounters a number of strange people with odd stories. This part was all good. I liked how it was getting steadily weirder, but still remaining anchored in reality. At this stage, nothing was implausible, just very weird.<br />Then. The author must have gotten too caught up in making things weird, because it started to get really stupid. The main character followed a random guy around for a while and then beat him up. For no real reason (the reason was there, but it was weak, I think), a woman started spending lots of money on him, his wife disappeared under increasingly stupid circumstances, he developed...ugh...psychic powers. Etc and etc. Not too impressed with all that.<br />But. I was waiting for it to be all neatly wrapped up. And it wasn't. One of the main characters at the start, May, she was relegated to little more than a letter writer at the end. I didn't see the point at all of the old man telling his long (but interesting) stories about Russia/Japan hostilities in WW2. <br />And the *BIG SPOILERS* big bad guy at the end being his wife's brother? Sure, that was obvious, but it was never really explained just how he managed to get all these psychic powers, or what he intended to do with them, or why he was such a threat. And the psychic dream world place was never explained, not at all.*/BIG SPOILERS*<br />So in the end I was disappointed. But I loved the start. I can handle weird, but not stupid weird.	2004-01-16
