US	30808172	R2GLPHE1TJ3WXK	059039696X	286261882	Shatterglass (Circle Opens, Book 4)	Books	3	6	7	N	N	A disappointement...	Shatterglass is the fourth and final book in The Circle Opens quartet written by Tamora Pierce. Like all the other books in this series, it focuses on young mage (Tris) who discovers an ambient mage and ends up teaching him/her. However, this book is different than the others because Tris must teach a grown man. At the same time, a murderer, nicknamed, the \\"Ghost\\" is killing yaskedasi and Dema must find the culprit. How are these events related? Read the book and find out! <br /> <br />Even though Tris is the least likeable out of all the mages, she is my favourite character. Tamora describes her very well and her sarcastic comments often make me laugh. Chime, the glass dragon Tris adopts, is another perfect example of Pierce's skill. Chime was such a strong and vibrant character that I immediately fell in love with her. Another great asset was that the book deals with social classes, which made it very realistic.  <br /> <br />However, I didn't like the fact that we heard very little of Nikaren Goldeye, Tris's teacher. He was rarely present and Tris and Niko didn't really seem to bond and their friendship didn't seem to evolve. I was very excited to find out more about wind scrying, but I found the concept was very badly described and uninteresting. I was also hoping that the murderer's personality would be as complex as that of the arsonist in Cold Fire, but I found he lacked dimension.  <br /> <br />I supposed I was just excpecting Shatterglass to be as good as Cold Fire, or even Tris's Book, but I was disappointed. However, if you have read the other books in the series, I suggest you purchase this one anyways to complete the quartet.	2004-10-29
US	30808172	R2AQ5EXT047FDW	0590396560	933360538	Cold Fire (Circle Opens, Book 3)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Cold Fire: The best book in The Circle Opens series!	Cold Fire, the third book in The Circle Opens quartet, is written by Tamora Pierce. In this book, Daja Kisubo and her teacher, Frostpine, are staying in a northern city of Namorn, Kugisko, to learn more about metal work. They are staying at the Bancanors, who have two twin daughters. During her stay, Daja discovers that Nia and Jory, the twins, are ambient mages and must consequently teach them the art of meditation and find teachers for them. While visting the city, Daja meets many people, some which are nicer than others. She encounters a sympathetic firefighter named Ben Ladradun. Ben is determined to teach civilians how to stop fires, especially since Kugisko's houses are made of wood. However, Daja soon realizes that someone is deliberately setting fires. Who is to blame? <br /> <br />This is the longest book in the series, and I think it will be the best (I am in the process of reading Shatterglass). Pierce describes the wintery atmosphere of Kugisko magnificently, leaving me anticipating the holiday season. Tamora's writing style has definitely matured. We discover Frostpine and Daja's personality in depth, and the new characters are described in such a way that I feel as if I know them. Mrs. Pierce's description about the arsonist left me intrigued and excited, especially since I am interested in forensic science. Even the most unpleasant character, Morrachane, is an excellent example of characterization. I hated her with such passion that I often felt like screaming at her.  <br /> <br />There is nothing in this book that I can criticize. Everything was perfect. This is an essential addition that every Tamora Pierce fan must have! Two thumbs up! <br />	2004-10-15
US	30808172	R3ML52PDXKMSPQ	0590396439	96459624	Street Magic (The Circle Opens, Book 2)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Even better that the previous quartet!	In Street Magic, which is the second book in The Circle Opens quartet, we are transported to Chammur, where Briar Moss and his teacher, Rosethorn, are helping farmers with their crops. As Briar was wandering through markets, he noticed a young girl named Evvy who is gifted in stone magic. Thus begins the story of Briar's coming of age as he tries to teach a stubborn girl about magic he has never even heard of. However, that is not the only problem Briar encounters. The former street rat, who thought he would never have to deal with gangs again, is now in a delicate position. The Vipers are ruled by a rich, powerful female named Lady Zenadia who wants to use Evvy's magic. Briar refuses to let Evvy live with her, yet Lady Zenadia will do anything to get what she wants... <br /> <br />I found this book was filled with great descriptions of Chammur and great character development. Briar's maturity is obvious throughout the book since we are continuously sharing his thoughts. The dialogues are witty and well thought out. This book shows that Tamora Pierce is not only gifted in making likeable heroines; Briar is just as interesting as Alanna, Daine or Kel.  <br /> <br />Since the book deals with gangs, the reader must expect to come across quite a few violent scenes. However, this just makes the story even more realistic and believable. Pierce obviously informed herself about teenage gangs and how they work, and she shares her knowledge with us. She never preaches, and makes us judge for ourselves whether being in a gang is good or not.  <br /> <br />The only criticism I have to make is that the book's plot is very similar to that of Magic Steps. I found, though, that Street Magic is better than Magic Steps, and I strongly recommend this book. However, I think you should read The Circle of Magic quartet first, to be able to appreciate Briar's evolution from a street rat to a responsible mage.	2004-10-02
US	30808172	R1LQOY57IQ07SZ	0590396056	787807638	Magic Steps (The Circle Opens, Book 1)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A truly magical experience!	Magic Steps, written by Tamora Pierce, is the first book in The Circle Opens series. It takes place in Summersea, where fourteen year-old Lady Sandrilene fa Toren is staying with her great-uncle, Duke Vedris. It is during her stay that she meets Pasco, a boy with a particular type of magic. He is able to perform magic by dancing and since Sandry discovered him, she must now become his teacher. Though this poses a bit of a problem, there are more important things going on at Summersea. A group of murderers have been killing many members of the Rokat family. These murderers are very hard to track down though because they are manipulating a mage who is gifted in \\"unmagic\\", which is the abscence of magic. Unmagic is impossible to defeat using magic, but Sandry and Pasco, with the help of Lark and Yazmin, have found a way to stop these murderers.  <br /> <br />Though I was expecting this book to talk about all four young mages - Sandry, Briar, Daja and Tris, I still liked the fact that it was only concentrated on Sandry. This enables the reader to get to know Sandry a lot better. However, I was quite surprised with Sandry's character. She doesn't have the strong character that Pierce's other heroines have. She is more docile and peaceful and even though this is a refreshing change, I'm not too fond of Sandry and I have a hard time sympathizing with her.  <br /> <br />It seems to me that Magic Steps wasn't a very logical continuation with Briar's Book. I felt as if I missed something in between the two books. At the end of Briar's Book, all four young mages are at Discipline. However, at the beginning of Magic Steps, Sandry is at the Citadel, and Daja, Briar and Tris are nowhere near Winding Circle. Needless to say, I was quite lost during the first few pages or so. I feel as if a prologue would have been quite appropriate. <br /> <br />I found the whole concept of a dance mage quite interesting and I became very attached to Pasco. I looked forward to reading any passagethat involved Pasco or his dancing teacher, Yazmin. Both were very loveable, strong characters in contrast to Sandry's more passive one. I also liked how Pierce introduced unmagic, and the mage was a very interesting character, as were the murderers. <br /> <br />To summarize, this is an excellent addition to my growing collection of Tamora Pierce's numerous books. It is more mature than The Circle of Magic Quartet, and though it can be at times quite gory, it is a very exciting YA fantasy book that will transport you to the very heart of the Duke's Citadel.	2004-09-04
US	30808172	R2R6S7KPVBHOHX	0440418321	994627826	The Golden Compass: His Dark Materials	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Read what everyone's raving about...	The Golden Compass, written by English author Philip Pullman, is the story of an eleven year-old girl called Lyra Belacqua. At the beginning, she is living at Jordan's College, where she and her best friend, a kitchen boy named Roger, play in the streets of Oxford with many other children. Suddenly though, children start disappearing. Rumours say that \\"Gobblers\\" are bringing the children to Lapland, in the North, where they are performing terrible experiments on them. Lyra isn't really bothered by the Gobblers, until Roger is taken by them. Lyra is then determined to go to Lapland to save her friend and the other prisoners. Little does she know that a very dangerous adventure awaits.    This is by far one of the best fantasy books I have ever read. I gave this book four stars because, like in all books, there were some things that I didn't quite like. One of those things was Lyra. Pullman does a great job in characterizing people, but I found Lyra to be a bit too smart for her age. It was very hard to believe everything she accomplished and understood, especially since she is quite young. However, I liked her stubbornness, determination and her strong character. Pullman is talented enough to make the reader feel the same emotions Lyra does, which is great. I also liked the fact that the author doesn't only develop the main characters - I was impressed when I realized that I knew the secondary characters, such as Ma Costa and Lee Scoresby, pretty well.  Now, back to some of the things I didn't like in the story. I would have liked Pullman to describe the world Lyra was living in a bit better. I found it confusing at times because I wasn't sure whether Lyra was living on Earth or in a completely different world, since there are many similarities (such as the names of cities, countries, etc.) yet lots of differences as well. I think it would have been better if Pullman completely changed the names of places and created a whole new world in order to prevent this confusion. The only other thing I disliked was the fact that his sentences were sometimes long and confusing, and I found myself having to reread some sentences twice. Overall though, it was a very good book and I would definitely read it again because there is so much to learn and discover. I strongly recommend this book to those who like YA fantasy novels. The Golden Compass is a very original, fast-paced, and poignant book about heartbreak, disappointment, and betrayal but also about friendship, loyalty and courage. I cannot wait to get my hands on the second instalment, The Subtle Knife.	2004-08-23
US	30808172	R1TOKL9AUTUB4F	0439531640	208757740	Inkheart	Books	3	7	12	N	N	Still waiting for the book to develop...	Meggie's father, Mo, is a bookbinder. Meggie thinks Mo has no secrets, but she's wrong. Mo has a special gift that Meggie is unaware of: he can make characters in a book come to life. Meggie and Mo led a peaceful life, until a mysterious character called Dustfinger shows up one night and tells Mo that Capricorn is looking for him. Capricorn is an evil man that is aware of Mo's powers and he wants to use these powers to his advantage. Mo and Meggie immediately head south to Meggie's great-aunt, Elinor's, house. However, Capricorn finds out where Mo is hiding and a dangerous adventure unfolds... <br /> <br />I really liked the book's idea - it was very original and the book seemed promising, especially since I enjoy The Thief Lord. However, while reading the book I came across a few downsides. For the first part, the characterization can sometimes be poor. Meggie and Elinor don't have any specific traits, and it seems that Cornelia Funke developped the secondary characters more than the primary ones. I also found that Mo's role as a father isn't very convincing. He puts his daughter in great danger, and I found this very unrealistic. Last but not least, I found the story to be repetitive - Meggie, Mo and Elinor get caught, escape, get caught and escape once again.  <br /> <br />However, there are also some good sides to the book. The writing/translation is very good, the cover is more than appealing, and I enjoyed the quotes at the beginning of the chapter. Funke also manages to be quite convincing at times, and at a certain point I actually felt as if I was living in this magical world. In the end, I think that Funke's major mistake was that she wanted to try writing a very lengthy book (just like J.K. Rowling) but she didn't succeed. She should have cut the book down to around 350 pages, which would have avoided too much repetition.	2004-07-23
US	30808172	R2M1LEUNK8FWMO	0316666343	784206304	The Lovely Bones	Books	4	0	0	N	N	The Lovely Bones: a must read!	When 14 year-old Susie Salmon is raped and murdered by her neighbour, Mr. Harvey, everyone is affected by this loss. Her father Jack is determined to solve the case, her mother Abigail denies the fact that Susie is gone, her brother Buckley tries to understand the concept of death and her sister Lindsey hardens herself in order to move on. But what of Susie? In Heaven she is watching the reaction of her family and friends, the police trying to find the murderer, and Mr. Harvey covering up his crime. <br />This book was very realistic and Alice Sebold does a wonderful job in portraying the everyday life of those who must try to move on and accept the fact that a loved one is gone. I am not a very sentimental person, yet I have found myself shedding a few tears while reading some intense scenes in the book. Sebold's concept of Heaven is a refreshing one after having heard about angels, clouds and wings so many times before. The members of the family each have a different way of coping with this tragic loss, which is one reason why this book seemed so realistic. <br />However, there are two reasons why I gave this book four stars instead of five: the first reason is because Alice seems to be too random. She oftens jumps back and forth from the time after Susie was murdered to the time when Susie was little. At the beginning, this was confusing and I often found myself wondering what date Susie was referring to, but after a while I started to enjoy this randomness, and it gives the story more style and a more realistic feel: I felt as if I was actually in Susie's mind, looking back on the memories she shared with her family. Nevertheless, it is still confusing and takes some getting used to.<br />The other thing I didn't like about the book was the impact Susie sometimes had on people. Sebold describes how her father saw Susie's ghost and how Ruth sometimes felt Susie's present. I don't believe in ghosts, and therefore this made the book quite incredulous at times, which was a shame.<br />All in all though, I found The Lovely Bones to be a very good book and I recommend it to anyone who wants a fresh new insight on Heaven.	2004-07-18
US	30808172	R2RGUPRZ3HMB65	0060528737	962868136	Abhorsen (Old Kingdom)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Even more than I was expecting...	In this continuation to Lirael, the young woman along with Prince Sameth and their two loyal companions, Mogget and the Disreputable Dog are at the Abhorsen's House. Alas, they must head to Red Lake, where they are trying to stop Hedge and his team of Dead Hands and other faithful servants from joining two silver hemispheres. If the two hemispheres are reunited, Orannis, the Ninth Bright Shiner, will be unleashed and all Life will be destroyed. In their quest to prevent this from happening, the reader is transported from the Abhorsen's House all the way across the Wall to Ancelstierre. The path Lirael and her friends take is filled with many dangers, and this book is filled with action and suspense that will leave you on the edge of your seat and always begging for more. However, the end of the book is a little bit disappointing. Even though Mogget and the Disreputable Dog's identities are finally revealed, I kept hoping Garth Nix would introduce a bit of romance between Nicholas and Lirael, and many of my questions are still left unanswered. I also found that Sabriel and Touchstone were not present enough. Apart from these almost insignificant disappointements though, I thoroughly enjoyed this book. It is impossible to put down and makes me hope that there will be some sort of continuation to this story. Abhorsen is a must read!	2004-06-19
US	30808172	RKCFHBUXINMS1	0590554115	381788485	Briar's Book (Circle of Magic #4)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Definitely the best one in the series!	In this book, Briar and Rosethorn head to the Mire to help out at Urda's House, a low-class hospital. While he is there, Briar's friend Flick catches a mysterious disease called the blue pox. The disease continues to spread and Rosethorn and Briar are stuck in quarantine, where they care for the sick. After a while, Briar and his teacher are allowed to go back to Winding Circle, where they work with Crane and his team to find a cure for the blue pox. However, just as things are starting to go well, Rosethorn gets the blue pox. What will happen to her? Will Crane and his team find a cure for the blue pox? More importantly though, will the cure work on Rosethorn?<br />This book is definitely the best one in the series. It is packed with suspense and action, and it is a great end to The Circle of Magic series. Pierce's writing skills have developped since she started off with Sandry's Book, and the young mages' teachers, particularly Rosethorn, are also starting to evolve and take shape. If you weren't sure about continuing the series with The Circle Opens quartet, Briar's Book will definitely convince you. Two thumbs up for this excellent ending!	2004-06-12
US	30808172	R25X6HT4NTTSMH	0590554107	822378783	Daja's Book (Circle of Magic, No.3)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Yet another excellent addition to the series!	After Winding Circle got rid of the pirates, the four young mages, their teachers, and Duke Vedris (Sandry's uncle), are headed to Gold Ridge. A drought in this part of the country has caused many problems, and grassfires are now burning constantly. While they are there, Daja has been assigned to make nails. However, something goes wrong and she accidentally creates a magical iron vine that grows just like a normal plant. Upon seeing such a creation, one of the Traders wants to buy it off Daja, yet this Trader refuses to speak to Daja because she is Trangshi. During her encounters with Traders at Gold Ridge, Daja starts to yearn for the life she used to have. Finally, she is given a choice: she must either return to Winding Circle with her \\"new\\" family, or stay with the Traders. <br />This book is a very good read and definitely has a lot of action going on. However, I didn't like it as much as Tris's Book because I found some passages about magic confusing. Overall though, I think it is a great read and we get to know more about each character's personality, especially the teachers.	2004-06-08
US	30808172	R1AS7MUM1JU685	0590554093	782516599	Tris's Book (Circle of Magic #2)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A great continuation!	I found this book was even better than the last one! This book is mostly centered on Tris, the weather witch (hence the title). When pirates attack Winding Circle, the four children are very scared. The pirates definitely have an advantage, and things get quite dangerous. This book definitely has a darker air to it, but it also contains more action and a greater understand of Winding Circle and the young mages' magic. <br />Overall, I think this book is excellent, and even though I had some doubts about this series after reading Sandry's Circle, they have now vanished. I hope Daja's Book will be as good as, if not more, then Tris's Book.	2004-06-03
US	30808172	R1C6V9EE8SWJRE	0439436559	677996251	Grim Tuesday (Keys to the Kingdom, Book 2)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Didn't quite meet my expectations, but good anyways	Grim Tuesday, which is the sequel of Mister Monday, starts off when Arthur Penhaligon gets a phone call from the Will. The Will tells Arthur that Grim Tuesday wants to claim the Lower House as his in order to pay off all of Monday's debt. A little while later, things start going from bad to worse for the Penhaligon family and Arthur has no other choice but to enter the House and try to defeat Grim Tuesday. <br />Though the plot is a bit better that Mister Monday, I find Arthur's role a little too cheesy. Though he does encounter some problems, I find that he always ends up defeating the enemy no matter what and this is starting to become a bit too repetitive. However, I guess that if Arthur were to die, there would be no point in continuing the story, so this heroic act is acceptable. <br />Overall, the book is quite good, and I'm definitely looking forward to Drowned Wednesday.	2004-05-16
US	30808172	RX4VKE2K6F92C	0439551234	361348146	Mister Monday (Keys to the Kingdom, Book 1)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Garth Nix has done it again!	After reading the Sabriel series, I was hoping this book would be just as good. Though this series isn't one of his best, his style and vivid imagination is still very present. Garth Nix creates a whole new world for us to explore.<br />The story starts off on a Monday and it is Arthur Penhaligon's first day of school. While running during gym class, he gets an asthma attack. Gasping for breath, two strange men visit him and give him a book and a key. Using these two mysterious objects, he learns about a whole new world. Weird and dangerous creatures are hunting him down, trying to retrieve the key. A couple of days later, his town is invaded by a Sleepy Plague, and Arthur has no other choice but to enter the House and try to save his city. <br />I strongly recommend this book, even though it lacks the depth and maturity that was found in the Sabriel series. It is a great book for children ages 10-13 and Garth Nix creates a captivating and exciting world.	2004-04-12
US	30808172	RUIVXBIE6E4UF	043942089X	708788000	The Thief Lord	Books	4	13	14	N	N	The Thief Lord	After Prosper and Bo's mother dies, their Aunt Esther says she would like to adopt five-year-old Bo and send twelve-year-old Prosper to boarding school. However, the two brothers refuse to be separated from each other so they decide to move to Venice, the place their mother had always talked about. After meeting a young homeless girl that goes by the name of Hornet, they are introduced to Riccio and Mosca. All three of these have escaped from home or from the orphanage and are now living in an abandoned old movie theatre. With the help of Scipio, the Thief Lord, they have enough money to eat and to clothe themselves. Meanwhile, Esther suspects that Prosper and Bo are hiding in Venice and she hires the detective Victor Getz to track them down. However, things start getting tricky when the Thief Lord is hired to steal something for the Conte, and Victor discovers Prosper's and Bo's secret hide-out. <br />The Thief Lord, a book written by German author Cornelia Funke, is a mystery book that is sure to keep you on the edge of your seat during the whole story. Though many people compare this book to Harry Potter, I am tempted to compare it to Artemis Fowl, though it is, in my opinion, much more suspenseful. Even though the plot is a bit weak, it is nonetheless well thought of and Cornelia surprises readers' by revealing the mysterious Scipio's real identity. This book is very well written and is sure to please children that are around ten years old.	2003-10-18
US	30808172	RUGYHL3JH3BHN	037581471X	9616282	Lady Knight: Book 4 of the Protector of the Small Quartet	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Lady Knight	The Protector of the Small quartet has come to an end. After Kel was knighted, she received a quest from the Chamber of the Ordeal. She had to find Blayce, the man who was creating these killing devices, and kill him and his bodyguard, Stenmun. However, it seems that Lord Wyldon has another plan for her. Instead of participating in the war against Tortall and Scanra or going after Blayce, the Nothing Man, she will be the leader of a refugee camp. <br />Though the ending isn't that surprising, it's quite a good story and I have come to like Kel more and more. She is less of a hero and relies more on her friends to help her out. She is simple and, unlike Alanna or Daine, does not have powers or too much of a strong character. She is also a very independant woman, and I think she is more realistic than Tamora's previous heroines.<br />All in all, a very good book and the fans won't be  disappointed about the way this quartet finishes.	2003-10-13
US	30808172	RPU9EDQ8JYA3K	0060005424	895619710	LIRAEL: Daughter of the Clayr (Old Kingdom)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Lirael: Daughter of the Clayr	This book is the sequence to \\"Sabriel\\". In the book Sabriel, Garth Nix takes us through the basics of Charter Magic, the Old Kingdom and the responsibility of the Abhorsen. If you haven't already read \\"Sabriel\\", then I suggest you do so right away before reading this book because if not, you will be missing out on some very important facts. <br />Fourteen years after the Abhorsen defeated Kerrigor, a greater source of evil is at work once again. Sabriel and Touchstone are doing everything the can to stop a necromancer from continuing to pursue his plans of destruction. However, little do they know that they will not be the only ones that will be trying to stop this necromancer.<br />Lirael is a Daughter of the Clayr. The Clayr's main characteristic is to See the future. However, at age 14, when most of the Clayr's have already received the gift of Sight, Lirael feels like an outcast. Added to this is the fact that she has dark hair and brown eyes, unlike the Clayr's blond hair, and blue or green eyes. Lirael, depressed and ashamed, decides to commit suicide. After a couple of coincidental encounters, Lirael is still alive when she is nineteen, but she still has no Sight. She thinks that the Sight is the only thing that matters, but that is until she is assigned a task where she will have to fight many Dead and where she will discover her true identity.<br />\\"Lireal\\" is an excellent fantasy book with so much action that reader's will just speed through the pages. It is just as good as Sabriel and Garth Nix is very faithful to his style of writing. There is never one boring part in this whole book, and that is quite an achievement for a book as long as this one. I cannot wait to get my hands on a copy of the final book in the trilogy, \\"Abhorsen\\". I highly recommend this book, especially to fantasy lovers and adolescents or even young adults.	2003-09-21
US	30808172	R3EL2QOV7353P2	0064471837	962868136	Sabriel (Old Kingdom)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Sabriel	18 year-old Sabriel was raised in Ancelstierre and her dad, a necromancer, only came to see her during the holidays. It was during these rare visits that Sabriel read parts from The Book of the Dead, which is like a necromancer's Bible. However, Sabriel is not ready to become the Abhorsen and fight a Dead so great she never could have imagined actually existed. But when her Father is trapped in Death, she has no other choice if she is to save him from passing through the Ninth and final Gate of Death. By taking the necromancer's bells and her Father's sword, Sabriel is in for an exciting and dangerous adventure.<br />Since the book \\"Sabriel\\" takes place in this new world, it is a bit hard to understand the concept of Death and Charter Magic. However, Garth Nix pulls it off beautifully and explains these things without making the story boring and adding too much description. \\"Sabriel\\" is, in my opinion, an excellent book for fantasy lovers. Though it could be a bit dark at times, this just creates a scarier atmosphere. This is great book that might make you shiver in fright or disgust at times, but always keeps you coming back for more.	2003-09-21
US	30808172	R3EU9X44LZA5HI	0590554085	552681243	Sandry's Book (Circle of Magic, Book 1)	Books	4	14	14	N	N	Sandry's Book	The Circle Opens Quartet is yet another successful series written by Tamora Pierce. However, this is not the normal heroine Tortall-set story that fans have learned to love. In this book, Tamora Pierce changes the setting of her story and instead of writing about one main character, there are four, one of them being a boy. This story was written for a younger audience, however this does not lessen Pierce's imaginative and colourful stories. The presence of a masculine character, Briar, as one of the most important ones in the story, is quite different compared to Tamora's previous series, and I welcomed this change. <br />Sandry's Book, being the first book in the Circle Opens, is basically an introduction to all four of the characters: Sandry, Tris, Daja and Briar. All of these children are either orphaned or have relatives that do not wish to have them. Since they all come from different social classes and they all have different beliefs, their meeting is an awkward one, but since they were chosen to live in the same house, they must learn to at least respect each other. While they are staying at the Winding Circle Temple, they each discover that they have their own magical gifts: Sandry is gifted in working thread, Tris in changing the weather, Daja in working different types of metal, and Briar in taking care of plants. Since they were not born in an environment that was able to favour these magical gifts, they must now learn how to understand and control them.<br />I recommend this story to any Tamora Pierce fan, however those who are older than twelve-years-old might not enjoy this series as much as her previous ones, especially if they are avid readers. However, even though this book is destined to pre-teenagers, what the book lacks of in maturity and complexity is gained in the discovery of a whole new world. Enjoy!	2003-09-14
US	30808172	R1KPSZU4ISVTVW	0374480095	551852778	Tuck Everlasting (A Sunburst book)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Tuck Everlasting	Tuck Everlasting is a timeless classic, and is about an eleven-year-old girl named Winifred Foster...Winnie for short. In a rebellious attack to run away from home, Winnie meets Jesse Tuck in her parents' woods. Jesse is a seventeen year-old boy who claims to be over 100 year-old. When she sees Jesse drinking water from a spring that was covered by pebbles, she asks if she can drink some too.<br />This is where the adventure begins. Jesse, his brother Miles, and his mom Mae, then explain to Winnie a secret that they have kept to each other for eighty-seven years: if you drink the spring water, you become immortal. However, what the Tucks and Winnie did not realize was that a man overheard every bit of their conversation.<br />In a sudden turn of events, Mae is in jail and will certainly be hanged. Only the Tucks and Winnie know the disaster that will certainly arise if she is hung in front of a crowd of people. How will the people react when they realise that Mae did not die? Winnie and the Tucks then proceed to save Mae from prison.<br />The stories ending takes place many years after this all happened, and Winnie's choice was very surprising and quite sad. The only advice I can give you while reading this book is to read carefully all the parts concerning the music box and the toad. Or else, the only other thing I can tell you is to enjoy the book!	2003-07-28
US	30808172	RRZ1G3WLKFHT1	1558747613	300485624	Chicken Soup for the Teenage Soul III: More Stories of Life, Love and Learning	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Chicken Soup for the Teenage Soul III	Yet another Chicken Soup for the Teenage Soul has been put on the shelves for teenagers' to read and enjoy. These stories are even more heartfelt than the previous ones and talk about even more issues that teenagers have to face every day. Stories ranging from how to deal with handicaps and sicknesses, such as bulimia and depression; standing up for what you believe in; coping with your parent's divorce, the death of a close one and the ever-so-popular stories about love, friendship and family.<br />Though Jennifer Love Hewitt and other role models did not contribute stories, what compensate for this is that more and more stories are realistic basically because a big majority of them have been written BY teens and these young authors have kept in mind that this book will be FOR teenagers. <br />I strongly encourage any teenager going through tough times or pre-teens that want to prepare themselves for the tough times ahed of them, to read this book. Whether it is to give you hope and courage, to mend your broken heart, or simply to share the happy stories with your best friend, it is a book that can be read at any occasion and it is sure to help you and comfort you.	2003-07-27
US	30808172	R3ANDAHFBYZC5V	1558746161	300485624	Chicken Soup for the Teenage Soul II	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Chicken Soup for the Teenage Soul II	For those many readers who liked the first edition of Chicken Soup for the Teenage Soul, here comes yet another helping, with 101 more stories on subjects such as love, friendship, random acts of kindness, etc. This volume contains even more poems that you can read quickly when you just need a boost of self-confidence. This book has even more stories on relationships, how to overcome obstacles and learning important lessons. I have to say that I liked this Chicken Soup for the Teenage Soul better than the previous ones, because there is even more stories dealing with tough stuff such as anorexia, divorce, etc. Each story is unique in its own way but one thing is for sure: each story touches the reader and makes them stop and think about how all of their actions have consequences, some good, some bad.<br />Jennifer Love Hewitt contributed yet another story for this book, as well as Andrew Keegan and Elisa Donovan. I strongly encourage teenagers, pre-teens and even adults to read this book in order to better understand the feelings teenagers' are experiencing, and how to deal with these often confusing emotions. Lovers for the Chicken Soup for the Teenage Soul will not be disappointed, especially when they learn that a Chicken Soup for the Teenage Soul III is also in stores.	2003-07-27
US	30808172	R2YOW62T61ATME	067988291X	961849318	The Realms of the Gods (The Immortals #4)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Realms of the Gods	In this last book of The Immortals series, Daine and Numair are transported to the Realms of the Gods, where Daine meets her mother, the badger, and, finally, her father. However, Daine and Numair's hearts lie in Tortall, and since Sarah cannot bring them back to their beloved homeland, they must find a way to go back and the only way to do that is by asking the dragons to bring them.<br />Down below, war has erupted in Tortall: a war that will be known through history as The Immortals war. Daine and Numair are getting more and more anxious as time flies by because they must head back in order to try to save Tortall. <br />The last adventure is just, if not more, suspensful than the rest, and the unexpected budding romance between Daine and Numair makes the reader want to keep on turning the pages in order to find out what happens.<br />Though the series ends quite abprutly, fans of Daine and the mage Numair will be glad to find that these two lovers have a minor, yet nonetheless present role in Tamora Pierce's next series, Protector of the Small.	2003-07-24
US	30808172	R21DX93DJ7GC35	1558744630	300485624	Chicken Soup for the Teenage Soul: 101 Stories of Life, Love and Learning (Chicken Soup for the Soul)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Chicken Soup for the Teenage Soul	Chicken Soup for the Teenage Soul is a book dedicated to help teenagers' make it through the difficult times they face in high school. No subject is taboo; this book deals with relationships, friendships, suicides and death of loved ones. It is a great book and does not put down teenagers', yet values them for what they are and could be. However, even though the subjects they dealt with were very important to teens I found that the last chapter, \\"Going for It\\" was not as touching and motivating as the others. The death of loved ones, the loss of a best friend, are all subjects that sooner or later, teens will face. However, though some stories were less touching and inspirational then others, it was nice to have a book almost completely written by teens, as well as some stories from actresses such as Jennifer Love Hewitt. I think that every teen that is going through tough times or that is afraid of what the future holds should turn to this book for advice and a look at what people have been through and how they have gotten through it.	2003-07-23
US	30808172	R10GUNSV9LUBW8	0440229499	859351214	Gathering Blue (Readers Circle)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Gathering Blue	This is a book set in a futuristic time where disabled babies are brought to the Field and are left to be eaten by beasts. What a surprise, then, that Kira, a girl with a twisted leg, is still alive at thirteen years old. Kira's father was killed by beasts before she was even born and her mother fought to keep Kira alive. However, things seem grim for Kira's future; her mother died of some unknown sickness, which leaves Kira an orphan. When she comes back from having watched the spirit of her mother leave the body, a group of women led by Vandara want to turn the space where Kira's house was into a pen to keep chicken and tykes out of trouble. <br />Kira and Vandara then go to the Council Edifice and have a trial. If Vandara wins, Kira will have to go to the Field like she was supposed to. If Kira wins, Kira can rebuild her house and keep working at the weaving shed, where she was picking up scraps. However, Jamison, one of the Guardians, has a different idea in store for her. Though Vandara will have Kira's land, Kira will spend her time in the Council Edifice, working on repairing the Singer's robe, which tells the history of the people.<br />This is a well-thought out story and, though it is said to be the companion of The Giver, does not necessarily need to be read after The Giver. This book definitely needs a continuation since Lowry ended the book quite suddenly, and, just like in The Giver, Kira's future is uncertain. Lowry talked about writing a book where Kira and Jonas meet, which would therefore make a bridge between the two worlds. If you were a fan of The Giver, you will not be disappointed by this new book, which is not at all a utopia, but a world where betrayal, lies and plots to get rid of the weak are present.	2003-07-22
US	30808172	RFVSXKJKNSENM	0440237688	55490378	The Giver (Giver Quartet)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	The Giver	Jonas started off as being an eleven year old boy in a community where there are no colours, feelings or thoughts about sexuality. Jonas is nervous about the Ceremony, where he will become a Twelve, and, consequently, be assigned the role he will play in his community. Jonas does not know what he will be chosen to do. Will the Chief Elder make him become a Recreation Director or maybe a Nurturer, like his father? However, he is suddenly assigned the role of Receiver of Memory. The present Receiver of Memory, called The Giver, is getting old and it is his duty to transmit all of his memories of the past to the new Receiver before The Giver is released. <br />Through the lessons of The Giver, Jonas learns about warmth, tranquility, serenity and love. However, The Giver must also give Jonas memories of hunger, loneliness, war and death. After a startling discovery about what happens to the old and sickly newborns, Jonas prepares a plan with The Giver. But when Jonas's plan suddenly burns to ashes, he spontaneously decides to take matters into his own hands. What he does and his journey after his decision will surely startle readers' tremondously. The incertain future of Jonas will make readers' like me wonder whether there will actually be a light at the end of the tunnel for Jonas and whether Jonas's community will finally change and let people have their own feelings.<br />The Giver is a beautiful story filled with morals that will make humans understand that pain is sometimes necessary in order for us to enjoy the happiness that comes afterwards.	2003-07-13
US	30808172	R3PLYH31FUWEUC	0679889191	133881695	Squire (Protector of the Small Quartet, Book 3)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Protector of the Small: Squire	Squire is Keladry of Mindelan's last book before she becomes a Lady Knight. She gets sponsored by Lord Raoul of Goldenlake and Malorie's Peak, and rides with the Own to many different places in Tortall to deal with raiders and robbers. When she left the palace, Kel thought her teasing days were over, but Kel must prove herself once again that she is as good as, if not better than, most boys. Her blossoming relationship with Cleon makes Kel a young woman with more depth to her feelings that just becoming a knight. However, times aren't always easy; now that she must follow the King's Own, she is not always with her lover and misses him avidly. Raiders in Scanra try to defeat the King's Own by bringing in killing machines to help them, and some of the men Kel knew must pay their life as a price for battle. The most troublesome thing, however, must definitely be the thought of Kel's upcoming Ordeal. With two squires that failed the Ordeal last year, Kel is worried that she might never become a Knight.<br />The third book in the quartet is just as good as the last two and will make readers' want to devour the +/- 400 pages all in one day. The biggest surprise in the whole book, however, is definitely the revelation of Kel's anonymous benefactor that has been showering her with gifts' for eight years. Goddess bless!	2003-07-11
US	30808172	R6BGRPP1PNQ9K	0679889183	237644619	Page (Protector of the Small Quartet, Book 2)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Protector of the Small: Page	In this new and exciting adventure, Kel starts off by being an eleven year old, second-grade page. After proving to everyone that she is here to stay, she does not think that Joren and his gang of bullies will bother her or other first-year pages again; however, the beginning of the term sees Keladry getting into yet another fight. Following this fight, she makes a new friend, Owen.<br />However, he is not the only new addition to Kel's group of friends. Kel soon comes to love Jump, a palace dog, who is old and has lost an ear and bears many scars. Kel also hires Lalasa, Gower's neice, as a maid, thinking that by doing so, Lalasa wil stop being mistreated by men. Kel teaches Lalasa how to defend herself, at first against her maid's wish, but Lalasa soon evolves into a strong, independant young woman who is not afraid to let men know the meaning of the word \\"no\\". <br />Lalasa is not the only person that evolves. Now that Kel has reached puberty, she must learn to deal with her new feelings for Neal, her best friend, and she learns the joy - and hardships - of entering womanhood and getting her menstruation. She must also learn to conquer her fear of heights, which she thinks is necessary in order for her to become a knight. <br />While things aren't always easy at the palace, Kel manages to pull through it all and, at the end of the book, she finally becomes a squire. This book was highly enjoyable and just as good as the previous one. I cannot wait to read the continuation, rightly entitled Squire! I am not at all disappointed and I thoroughly believe that Tamora Pierce has managed to write yet another fantasy story, filled with adventure and action. Congratulations Tamora!	2003-07-06
US	30808172	R1JN9S7LQGVHEV	043935806X	667539744	Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (Book 5)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix	This is the fifth book in the Harry Potter series, and Harry, now 15 years old, has been left all alone at the Dursley's house for the summer. No news of Ron or Hermione, or even his godfather, Sirius Black. But after two Dementors were sent to attack Harry in Little Whinging, Harry starts to wonder what this is all about.<br />What I found was a bit of a drawback was that the story took an extremely long time in developping and it was only during the 150 page or so that the book really started to get interesting. <br />J.K. Rowling creates more depth into the Harry Potter character. As he grows older, readers come to realize that Harry is no longer the self-controlled and happy boy he used to be. In fact, it seems that all of his anger is bubbling up inside of him, and he has to get it out somehow. Harry seems more and more realistic, and teenagers will often be able to relate to his realistic side. In fact, his personality is becoming more and more like one of an adolescent: Harry no longer cares if he gets into detention, all he wants to do is scream at Professor Umbridge, the new Defence Aginst the Dark Arts teacher, who does not believe that Lord Voldmort has returned. Even though this was an interesting aspect of Harry's, at times I found that it was a bit annoying and I really felt like shaking Harry and screaming at him myself because he was just wallowing in self-pity. <br />A new relationship is also starting to develop between Harry and Cho Chang, and this creates an even more realistic Potter; in fact, I was able to penetrate inside his skin more than ever with his new rebellious attitude.<br />This book is full of new discoveries for Harry about love, death and a shocking discovery about his father. Harry soon comes to realize that people aren't always what they seem to be, and as the readers' plunge deeper into the wizard world, Harry becomes more acquainted with his true feelings and his connection with He Who Must Not Be Named. <br />J.K. Rowling portrayed Umbridge beautifully and I think that she perfectly transmitted all of the hate Harry felt towards her to the readers'. She was a most despicable character and I think that is what made the story much more interesting.<br />However, as a new villain enters the story, another enemy of Harry changes roles. My favourite chapter was when Harry got to see Snape's worst memory. Rowling makes the readers' have more pity upon Snape and, by doing so, makes us learn the truth about James Potter and Severus Snapes' relationship and why Snape hated Harry so. <br />Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix has been highly anticipated, and it definitely does not let the fans down even though it is not as suspenseful and intriguing as the previous books. I was also a bit disappointed by the ending. The \\"big revelation\\" that Dumbeldore was going to tell Harry wasn't as big as I thought it was, though it certainly was one more clearing in all of this mystery. Overall, it was a very good book, but I am still debating whether the three year wait is all that worthwhile.	2003-07-01
US	30808172	R3GQB14BH47Z1L	0679882901	559159018	Emperor Mage (The Immortals, Book 3)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Emperor Mage	Daine and Numair, along with other of her royal friends such as Alanna and Duke Gareth, are sent to Carthak's as diplomats. They are hoping to sign a peace treaty with Carthak and, in the process, Daine must also heal the Emperor Ozorne's birds. However, the gods are angry at Carthak, especially at Ozorne, since the inhabitants no longer take the time to worship them.<br />While in Carthak, Daine discovers new places and customs and must always be on the lookout for her manners while she is visiting this foreign place. During her trip, she makes new friends, such as the Emperor's heir, Lindhall Reed and a marmoset named Zek. However, some people proove to be quite troublesome: the Graveyard Hag, one of Carthak's gods and Ozorne among them.<br />This beautiful, exotic vacation turns out to be a living inferno for Daine and her friends. Ozorne's treacherous ways soon puts Tortall in great peril. However, with the help of Daine's faithful friends and her close connection with animals, she manages to save Tortall and her friends...for now.<br />This new adventure is filled with new characters and a new place. Discovering Carthak was a real pleasure and very adventurous as well. Tamora Piere fans will definitely not be deceived by this new addition to The Immortals series.	2003-06-22
US	30808172	R2XPN6SUE3EJHD	0679882898	325062218	Wolf-Speaker (Immortals)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Wolf-Speaker	Veralidaine Sarrasri, commonly called Daine, receives a cry for help from the wolves of the Long Lake Pack. They tell Daine about the tree-cutting and awful amount of noise that is scaring away all of the prey in Dunlath Valley. When Daine and Numair finally arrive in Dunlath, they realize that there is much more going on then that. They find out that Lady Yolane and Tristan, Numair's old classmate, are planning something that will jeopardize Queen Thayet's throne. <br />In the second book of The Immortals series, Daine learns many new things that she can do with her magic. Accompanied by Kitten and her faithful horse, Cloud, Daine makes new friends, some of which are human, and some, which are immortals. Daine's personality is also evolving, and this book is more personal since we learn more about Daine's thoughts and feelings. Animal and Tamora Pierce lovers, this book is for you!	2003-06-14
US	30808172	R14LAQ8Q88MXVV	0312201656	477658660	I Capture the Castle	Books	5	12	12	N	N	This book definitely captured my heart!	This book was recommended to me and I am forever thankful that I bought it. Through the diaries of a teenage girl named Cassandra Mortmain, the reader has the opportunity to discover the Mortmain's style of living in their old, broken-down castle. James Mortmain, reknown author of Jacob Wrestling, suddenly stopped writing and spends his days in the gatehouse, reading detective novels. After Cassandra and Rose's mother died, James decided to marry a woman who was at the same time excentric, peculair and overly obsessed with nudity: Topaz. Topaz posed for artists', but did not really enjoy it and rarely received any money for posing. With no income whatsoever, it would take a miracle for the Mortmain family to continue living.<br />However, thing slowly changed: Stephen, the Mortmain's servant and Cassandra's admirer, received a job at Four Stones. This gave the family a bit more financial freedom, but nothing major happened until they met the Cottons'. Simon Cotton took possession of Scoatney Hall, and, in this case, the castle, since the Mortmain only had a 40 year lease on the castle. But Simon didn't mind that the Mortmain's couldn't pay their rent; in fact, he was so honoured of meeting James Mortmain that Simon frequently came to the house to talk to the family. Neil Cotton, Simon's brother, was also there, but less present then Simon was.<br />As the story unfolds, things seem promising for the family: Rose is engaged to Simon. However, things suddenly go wrong, as first love often does. A surprising ending, with a witty and lovable narrator and a perfect length for the book. What more can a reader ask for?<br />I find this is a great book for teenagers and prepares them for the often deceiving ending of their first relationship. It was very well written and inspired me to start a journal, just like Cassandra did. It makes readers who have never experienced love realize that it is not as beautiful as is often perceived to be in fairy tales. With a zest of rustic, mediaeval feel snd a modern twist, this book is something that will be cherished and passed on from generation to generation.	2003-06-08
US	30808172	RTZ8OGAT1L5GA	0553577123	636860937	The Diary of a Young Girl: The Definitive Edition	Books	5	3	4	N	N	The best edition of Anne Frank's Diary	This complete edition of Anne's diary makes us realize how hard it was for Anne to live in her \\"Secret Annex\\", hiding from the Nazis. During the WWII, it wasn't easy for Jews to survive, so Anne, her family, and a couple of friends, decided to hide in a building, which they renamed the \\"Secret Annex\\". While the other editions omitted Anne's more private thoughts, this edition is more complete and Anne's private thoughts about sexuality are also included. Her fear about being caught by Nazis is overwhelming, however she soon ignores these fears and must face constant famine and the challenges of becoming a woman. Often disagreeing with her mother, she runs to Peter, a boy of her age, for advice. It is then that she slowly discovers she is having mixed feelings about this boy whom she rarely paid any attention to. She starts discovering what love is, but how can she continue her relationship with Peter when she hears Nazi airplanes throwing bombs in the city every night?<br />Anne was a very strong person and, day after day, was glad she was alive, even though things didn't always go her way. After a while, she got used to her routine and never thought the Germans would one day discover her secret hiding place. However, as the Nazis got stronger, they one day discovered the Frank's secret hiding place, and Otto, Anne's father, was the only one out of the eight people in the annex who survived the concentration camps. When he returned to the Secret Annex after his liberation, he found Anne's diary and passed on her message to the world. This book is a good way towards a better understanding of what Jews had to live through during the second World War.	2003-06-01
US	30808172	R3HNYY3MCDYQRT	0679889175	948974113	First Test: Book 1 of the Protector of the Small Quartet	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Protector of the Small: First Test	The story is about a young, ten-year-old girl, named Keladry of Mindelan. She wants to become a knight, just like the King's Champion, Alanna. After having read her letter saying that she would want to train at his school, Lord Wyldon tells Kel that she will have to be on probation during the first year in order to see if she can keep with the other boys'.<br />As unfair as it is though, Kel is determined to prove to everyone, especially Lord Wyldon, that she could be as good, if not better, than some of the boys'. However, she must surpass many obstacles in order to prove this. Not only does Lord Wyldon not approve of her wanting to become a knight, but Joren, an older boy, seems to do everything that is in his power in order to poison Kel's life and discourage her from becoming a knight.<br />Kel also starts receiving gifts from a secret benefactor. I think that the person giving Kel those gifts is Alanna, the Lioness, because even though Lord Wyldon said that Alanna was not allowed to ahve any contact with Kel, I have learned that Alanna always gets her way when she wants something bad enough. Sending gifts that will help Kel improve her training is a way for Alanna to tell Kel that she believes that Kel can become a knight. <br />In this brand new series, many beloved characters return. Among them are Daine, Numair, Alanna and Tkaa, the basilisk. This seems to be a very promising series and fans of Alanna or Daine will not be deceived.	2003-05-18
US	30808172	R24OQJED4MOMNQ	067988288X	173668273	Wild Magic (Immortals #1)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Wild Magic	Wild Magic is the first book in The Immortals series and is set in Tortall. It tells the story of a thriteen year-old girl named Veralidaine Sarrasri. Veralidaine is an orphan: she never met her father and her mother recently got killed by raiders. Veralidaine, alias Daine, makes her way to the fair in Corus, where she gets hired by the horse-mistress Onua, who works for the Throne. Working with animals makes Daine realize that she can actually communicate with them better than most people can. That is when Onua realizes that Daine possesses wild magic, which is a form of magic that, unlike the gift, cannot be shut off.<br />This book concentrates on making Daine learn more about her wild magic thanks to the help of her teacher, Numair. However, Tortall is not as peaceful as it seems: a mage broke the spell that was keeping the Immortals locked up in the Divine Realms. Though this means that some peaceful mythological creatures are now free, this also means the release of foul creatures such as the Stormwings, who keep on pestering the young Daine. This is the beginning of a series that will lead to a war with these Immortals and with Carthak, Tortall's enemy. Though this is a completely new series, the author introduces some characters that were also in the Song of the Lioness quartet, such as Alanna and George.	2003-05-18
