US	30875466	R2W0EMXNOGT7H6	0394563956	851901498	Broadway Bound	Books	5	6	6	N	N	The Jerome Trilogy's Poignant Finale	With 1986's BROADWAY BOUND, Neil Simon brought to completion the semi-autobiographical trilogy he began with BRIGHTON BEACH MEMOIRS (1983) and continued with BILOXI BLUES (1985).  For those coming to BROADWAY BOUND never having read or seen the two preceding plays, a bit of context is needed.  Eugene Morris Jerome is Simon's alter ego in all three plays, while Stanley Jerome, Eugene's older brother, is Simon's older brother, the TV writer Danny Simon (who died in July 2005).  Eugene is the protagonist/narrator of all three plays.  BRIGHTON BEACH MEMOIRS shows him struggling to find his identity among his large family in Brooklyn, New York.  BILOXI BLUES depicts his first break with the family as he joins the Army.  And BROADWAY BOUND, set in 1949, dramatizes a pivotal period in his life, made up of his efforts to launch, with Stanley, a comedy writing career - a career which would enable both him and Stanley to leave home permanently.  As the decision to leave home is a major theme in BROADWAY BOUND, this comedy is arguably sadder in its tone than the two which precede it, or than nearly any other work by the playwright whose name has, in recent decades, become virtually synonymous with the term \\"Broadway comedy.\\"   In terms of the Jerome trilogy, BROADWAY BOUND is a fitting culmination.  It is an unusually complex comedy, alternating humor and gravity, and scenes involving three generations of family members:  the elderly (Grandfather Ben), the middle-aged (Kate and Jack Jerome; Kate's sister Blanche), and the young (the sons, Stanley and Eugene).  During the lengthy two acts, each character is \\"spotlighted\\" in turn:  for example, Eugene in his monologues addressed to the audience and Kate in her long scene with Eugene in which she tells the story of how she once danced with movie star George Raft.  In terms of Simon's output up to 1986, BROADWAY BOUND is a culmination in that it includes elements of his previous comedies.  Examples:  Eugene and Stanley are, like Al and Willie in THE SUNSHINE BOYS, a show-business team whose real-life interaction is funnier than the material they produce (the brothers actually come to base their comedy sketches on their lives); like Felix Ungar and Oscar Madison, they are an \\"odd couple.\\"  BROADWAY BOUND can even be viewed as a tribute to American drama before 1986, since Simon's habit of emulating classic American plays is present in BROADWAY BOUND, which alludes unmistakably to both Clifford Odets' AWAKE AND SING! and Arthur Miller's DEATH OF A SALESMAN.  Finally, BROADWAY BOUND was the play that changed many critics' opinions of Neil Simon, whom they had previously thought a superficial playwright; the play has even been called the finest of the 1980's.  BROADWAY BOUND, then, is in several ways an important play, one which must be read and seen by anyone who loves American theatre.	2005-10-04
US	30875466	RO7IKJEI57ES7	0906399513	848130093	Pack of Lies (Plays)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	The Tragic Effects of Deceit	Hugh Whitemore's 1983 play PACK OF LIES is a sensitive study in how repeated lying can undermine even the closest of friendships.  Whitemore dramatizes the true story of Bill and Ruth Search, who in 1960 began to allow their home in Ruislip, England to be the location from which members of MI5 (the British intelligence agency similar to the United States' FBI) monitored the home of the Searches' good friends, Morris and Lona Cohen, whom MI5 suspected of passing on secrets to the Soviet Union.  In PACK OF LIES, the Searches become the Jacksons and the Cohens the Krogers (their alias in real life, as well).  A pivotal figure in the play is Mr. Stewart, the MI5 \\"civil servant\\" who visits the Jacksons and persuades them to shelter two police girls, Thelma and Sally, in their home so that they may watch the homes of their neighbors - the Krogers' house in particular.  From this point the MI5 agents increasingly invade the Jackson household; meanwhile, the ordeal of cooperating with them while lying to the Krogers begins to take an emotional and physical toll on the sensitive Barbara Jackson (Ruth Search).   <br />On beginning PACK OF LIES for the first time, one might think it simply mundane, \\"kitchen-sink\\" realism.  But, starting with the introduction of Mr. Stewart, one is increasingly drawn into the mystery of who the Krogers really are and begins to ask questions such as the following:  Whose power is greater, the individual's or the state's?  Can an individual be \\"a criminal\\" but still have admirable qualities?  How does guilt affect a person?  Finally, one sees that the purpose of the play's initial scenes is to establish the close friendship between Barbara Jackson and Helen Kroger - a friendship that is ultimately destroyed by lies.  I recently saw a superb local production of PACK OF LIES and am glad to have discovered this great play. <br /> <br /> <br /> <br /> <br /> <br /> <br /> <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-03-07
US	30875466	R2DO3OSY97CD10	081120765X	446331567	A Streetcar Named Desire	Books	5	4	4	N	N	"Don't -- don't hang back with the brutes!"	Tennessee Williams' 1947 masterpiece A STREETCAR NAMED DESIRE features one of the most infamous characters in modern drama, Stanley Kowalski (created on Broadway by Marlon Brando).  Stanley caricatures the masculine:  he is loud, rough, crude, and handsome in a rugged way; he would also guard at all costs those things which belong to him -- including his gentle wife, Stella.  But, like a stereotypical male, Stanley has no sensitivity, being concerned only with hard facts and given to violent behavior - even lashing out at Stella - when he cannot have what he wants.  Stanley's animalistic qualities are summed up in his famous, primal cries of \\"Stella!  Stella!\\"  Blanche du Bois, Stella's sister who shares her and Stanley's New Orleans flat after losing her job as a high school English teacher in Laurel, Mississippi, is Stanley's polar opposite.  Blanche is soft-spoken and pretty in a fair, delicate way; she is a romantic and given to illusions.  Thus, when she and Stanley find themselves living together in close quarters, passions become heated and it eventually becomes clear that the fragile Blanche must be destroyed by the brutal Stanley, as their world views are directly opposed to each other and cannot coexist.  In the play's later scenes, Williams dramatizes unforgettably the destruction of Blanche.  An additional, important fact about STREETCAR's dramaturgy is that it influenced both Williams' contemporaries and his successors.  For example, Arthur Miller was so struck by STREETCAR's expressionism - its visual demonstration of the fevered workings of Blanche's mind, as in the \\"shadows and lurid reflections\\" of the scene leading up to the climactic rape - that he emulated it to brilliant effect in his DEATH OF A SALESMAN (1949), while Neil Simon subtly alluded to STREETCAR's male camaraderie in his hit 1965 comedy THE ODD COUPLE.	2005-02-24
US	30875466	R2W6GGRDZQ8B9N	0140481346	826622434	Death of a Salesman (Penguin Plays)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Arthur Miller's Most Brilliant Play	It is a difficult task to review one's favorite play.  I have known and loved DEATH OF A SALESMAN since I was sixteen years old; I am now twenty-five.  Let me just say that, whether or not one considers DEATH OF A SALESMAN a tragedy, it is unquestionably one of the greatest dramas of the twentieth century; it is also the late Arthur Miller's greatest play.  Like his ALL MY SONS (written in 1947, two years before SALESMAN), and like his subsequent THE CRUCIBLE and A VIEW FROM THE BRIDGE, DEATH OF A SALESMAN brings together the themes of familial responsibility, man's role in relation to his society, and the possibility -- or impossibility -- that an individual can lead a normal life after having committed a crime.  Whereas in Joe Keller's (the protagonist of ALL MY SONS) case this is a crime against the \\"human family,\\" Willy Loman, the titular salesman, betrays his own family.  To the above-mentioned themes DEATH OF A SALESMAN adds one more:  the dehumanizing effect of capitalism.  Willy, having reached the retirement age without having achieved the success in his profession of which he always dreamed, has become a mere object to be discarded by the company for which he has worked for twenty-five years.  (\\"You can't eat an orange and throw the peel away -- a man is not a piece of fruit!\\"  Willy protests to his boss, Howard.)  Where SALESMAN differs from ALL MY SONS is in its seamless integration of expressionist techniques, showing that Miller had learned from Tennessee Williams' 1947 play A STREETCAR NAMED DESIRE.  Under stress from guilt over his past \\"crime\\" as well as from the knowledge that he will soon be \\"thrown away\\" by the selling firm, Willy's mind wanders increasingly back to a past, happier year (1928 -- significantly, the year before the Great Depression began).  Thus in SALESMAN past and present exist onstage simultaneously, and the stage itself is a map of Willy's mind.  This is the true brilliance of the play.	2005-02-16
US	30875466	RQJ2HOPM57OCP	0425129608	692503064	Evil under the Sun (Hercule Poirot)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Evil at the Jolly Roger Hotel	Set at an English seaside summer resort, EVIL UNDER THE SUN is one of several Hercule Poirot mysteries involving a \\"love triangle\\" that is not quite what it appears to be (DEATH ON THE NILE is another and the most famous).  In EVIL UNDER THE SUN, beautiful but brainless Arlena Marshall is strangled on a beach, and the most obvious suspect appears to be Captain Marshall, her husband, who was jealous of her relationship with young, handsome Patrick Redfern.  While the police are eager to convict Marshall, Poirot (as usual) concerns himself with the case's psychological aspect, asking himself who at the resort is the true focus of evil:  Arlena (as everyone else assumes) or somebody else?  When Poirot finds the answer to this question, then he will have found Arlena's killer.  As always, Poirot's logic is brilliant; in fact, the dialogue contains a very funny line about Poirot's eternal competition with the dim-witted \\"local police.\\"  Agatha Christie's one flaw is neglecting to explain the drug-smuggling thread of the mystery in tying up the loose ends of the plot in the novel's final pages.  Two bits of trivia:  EVIL UNDER THE SUN was filmed in 1982, with Peter Ustinov as Poirot, and the more recent TV adaptation of \\"Triangle at Rhodes\\" - another \\"love triangle\\" story - starring David Suchet as Poirot, borrows some dialogue from EVIL UNDER THE SUN. <br /> <br /> <br /> <br /> <br /> <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-02-01
US	30875466	R1PK6F0HVEDMKN	0822204568	782020937	Golden Boy: Acting Edition	Books	5	6	7	N	N	A Golden Drama	Though it is rarely performed today, Clifford Odets' Depression-era play GOLDEN BOY was for quite a while the gift that kept on giving.  The original 1937 production helped launch the careers of Frances Farmer, Lee J. Cobb, Howard Da Silva, Karl Malden, and Elia Kazan (who acted the role of gangster Eddie Fuseli).  The 1939 film version featured William Holden in the title role, with Cobb (who had created the small role of Mr. Carp) as his father.  Only thirteen years later, the play had a major Broadway revival, with a cast that included John Garfield, Cobb, Jack Klugman (as Garfield's brother, Frank), and Jack Warden (in the bit role of Mickey).  In 1964, GOLDEN BOY was turned into a musical by Charles Strouse and Lee Adams, with Sammy Davis, Jr. in the lead.  Odets' rhythmic, emphatic way with words inspired many later dramatists, among them Rod Serling, while his moral themes anticipated those of Arthur Miller.  The \\"hero\\" of GOLDEN BOY, Joe Bonaparte, faces a particularly Miller-esque dilemma.  He is caught between his Italian father's wish that he pursue his musical talent and become a violinist, and his own desire to become a prizefighter.  In essence, the choice is one between spiritual \\"wealth\\" and material prosperity.  Joe defies his father and enters the athletic arena, where he achieves money and fame but also powerlessness and an increasing feeling of worthlessness.  A sudden tragedy finally causes Joe and his girlfriend, the world-weary Lorna, to see the spiritual bankruptcy of their lives.  But can they redeem themselves before it is too late?  GOLDEN BOY is a tautly written drama in which every character, every event, and every line is vital.  It deserves a modern revival.	2004-11-26
US	30875466	R2NXEIRGW6QJVI	0198320175	43217624	The Merchant of Venice (Oxford School Shakespeare Series)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Perfection	THE MERCHANT OF VENICE is a perfect play, a romantic comedy with a memorable tragic hero and a fairy tale element, as well.  Venetian merchant Antonio and his best friend, Bassanio, find themselves in trouble with the Jewish moneylender Shylock over a sizeable unpaid debt.  Bassanio had borrowed the money on his friend's credit, and Antonio had been confident that he would be able to repay Shylock.  But when Antonio's ships miscarry at sea, and when Shylock's daughter, Jessica, elopes with Lorenzo, a Christian, taking much of her father's gold with her, the moneylender vows revenge:  he will insist on his right to extract, in court, \\"a pound of flesh\\" from Antonio.  Bassanio had used the money to woo Portia, a witty and beautiful lady who lives in idyllic Belmont and who must, according to her late father's wishes, marry whichever suitor chooses the one casket out of three that contains her portrait.  One of the caskets is made of gold, another of silver, and the third of lead.  Bassanio's realization that the leaden casket is the one with Portia's picture in it proves the old maxim that appearances are deceiving and that \\"[a]ll that glisters is not gold.\\"  In the end, it is Portia who saves the day by impersonating a lawyer in court and using the letter of the law itself to defeat Shylock and save Antonio's life.<br />Considering the general anti-Semitism of his era, Shakespeare gives Shylock marvelous depth that itself repudiates any charge of anti-Semitism on his part.  Shylock's greatest moment is, of course, his speech beginning \\"Hath not a Jew eyes?\\" and continuing, \\"If you prick us, do we not bleed?...If you poison us, do we not die?\\"  Furthermore, Shakespeare makes it clear that the Christians in the play - even including the honorable Antonio and the likeable Bassanio - have publicly insulted Shylock by spitting on him and calling him a \\"dog.\\"  As a consequence, we understand Shylock's hatred of Christians and sympathize with him, even as he mercilessly prepares to take Antonio's life.  Only Shakespeare could have so successfully placed such a complex tragic figure at the center of a comedy.pares to take Antonio's life.  Only Shakespeare could have so successfully placed such a complex tragic figure at the center of a comedy.	2004-08-19
US	30875466	R2FVP0HX39FGF3	0802845371	91041925	Choosing the Right College: The Whole Truth About America's 100 Top Schools	Books	5	8	11	N	N	Magnificent!	I got this book when I was in high school as an aid to colleges, and I could not put it down. It was so entertaining and enlightening that I found myself reading every article for the sheer fun of it! Long after I had chosen my college, I still<BR>continued to read this book for pleasure. Most college guides are superficial fluff; this book takes you inside each college, exposing its cultural and political atmosphere. Yes, the book is written from a right-wing perspective; that's why I personally found it so refreshing. Anyone who picks up this book should be warned of the book's orientation; perhaps the title should be changed? At any rate, I hope the editors of this wonderful college guide continue to issue updated versions in future years.	2004-06-23
US	30875466	RQ4MZRFGHDFG4	014009766X	823772714	The Complete Father Brown (Father Brown Mystery)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	A treasure trove!	Other authors may have excelled in the detective story, but it was G.K. Chesterton who elevated it to a higher intellectual and literary level. His writing combines wit, humor and whimsy with deep insights into psychology, philosophy, and even theology. While others viewed the detective story as a mere entertaining puzzle, G.K. treated it as a serious art form, with potential for symbolism and allegory. Father Brown is one of the classic fictional detectives of all time, a character more &quot;real&quot; than many living people. How wonderful to have all the Father Brown stories under one cover! Keep this volume by your bedside or near your favorite armchair, so you can dip into it on a rainy weekend, before you go to bed, or at any time you like. All confirmed Father Brown devotees must have the Penguin COMPLETE FATHER BROWN, and those who have not yet discovered this detective genius could find no better way to become acquainted with him.	2004-06-21
US	30875466	RTO7ROLZF9NW8	189209102X	68737159	Bob & Ray: A Night Of Two Stars (Two Compact Discs--2 Hours)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Bob and Ray's swan song	If you do not already know who Bob and Ray were, I would be hard-put to sum them up briefly. They were a brilliant comedy team who came of age in the golden age of radio and whose sketches endlessly satirized radio braodcasting itself. They created a large cast of comic characters, stretching their pliable voices a million different ways. Their humor was subtle and refined - they were two of the greatest deadpan comics of all time.  <br />Bob and Ray's main medium was radio - they were shy men who did not generally work well on stage or TV. But they did do two stage shows - the first was a Broadway show in the 1970's called &quot;The Two and Only&quot;, and the second was in the 1980's and was called &quot;A Night of Two Stars&quot;. I recommend this recording only to those who already know and love Bob and Ray. It is not a good introduction to Bob and Ray's work as a whole. Some of the sketches are not very well chosen, in my opinion. But Carnegie Hall is here packed with Bob and Ray fans - people who grew up on this wonderful duo - and the atmosphere is infectious. Bob and Ray bring out some of their classic characters, and the audience cheers them on as if they were old friends. What a wonderful way to end their remarkably long career (Bob and Ray did comedy together from 1946 to Ray's death in 1990). What a wonderful farewell to these remarkable gentlemen of comedy. Also be sure to get CLASSIC BOB AND RAY, BOB AND RAY: THE LOST EPISODES, (both of which show B &amp; R in their prime) and the award-winning BEST OF BOB AND RAY (from their public radio show in the 1980's)	2004-06-21
US	30875466	RL21YKMWLM6BJ	189209102X	68737159	Bob & Ray: A Night Of Two Stars (Two Compact Discs--2 Hours)	Books	5	18	18	N	N	Bob and Ray's swan song	If you do not already know who Bob and Ray were, I would be hard-put to sum them up briefly. They were a brilliant comedy team who came of age in the golden age of radio and whose sketches endlessly satirized radio braodcasting itself. They created a large cast of comic characters, stretching their pliable voices a million different ways. Their humor was subtle and refined - they were two of the greatest deadpan comics of all time.  <br />Bob and Ray's main medium was radio - they were shy men who did not generally work well on stage or TV. But they did do two stage shows, one of which was &quot;A Night of Two Stars&quot; from the 1980's (the twilight of their career). I recommend this recording only to those who already know and love Bob and Ray. It is not a good introduction to Bob and Ray's work as a whole; some of the sketches are not very well chosen, in my opinion. But die-hard Bob and Ray devotees will love this. Carnegie Hall is packed with Bob and Ray fans - people who grew up on this wonderful duo - and the atmosphere is infectious. Bob and Ray bring out some of their classic characters, and the audience cheers them on as if they were old friends. What a wonderful way to end their remarkably long career (Bob and Ray did comedy together from 1946 untill Ray's death in 1990). What a wonderful farewell to these remarkable gentlemen of comedy. And best of all, we get the wonderful Al Hirschfeld caricature on the cover! Also be sure to get CLASSIC BOB AND RAY, BOB AND RAY: THE LOST EPISODES, (both of which show B &amp; R in their prime) and the award-winning BEST OF BOB AND RAY (from their public radio show in the 1980's).	2004-06-21
US	30875466	R1GRDN2YZ8932U	0486298590	627120326	The Annotated Innocence of Father Brown	Books	5	4	4	N	N	The beginning of the Father Brown series	Anyone who would like to become aquainted with the great Father Brown could do no better than to start with this, the first-published collection of stories about the clerical sleuth. It has two of my all-time favorites - &quot;The Hammer of God&quot; and &quot;The Eye of Apollo&quot;. These are two stories that will boggle the mind with their incredible plot twists. &quot;The Blue Cross&quot; was the first Father Brown story ever published, and it shows Flambeau still in his criminal stage. When British film-makers decided to make a movie of Father Brown in 1954 with Alec Guinness, this is the story they chose. I had a tough time getting through some of the other stories in this collection; but the good thing about this series is that there is no continuing plot, so you can pick and choose. The footnotes by Martin Gardiner are interesting and stimulating, but are a bit too much at times. If you don't like distracting annotations, then buy another edition.	2004-06-18
US	30875466	RQETIMDY0IWGX	0573016402	748392699	Lend Me a Tenor (Acting Edition)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	An Operatic Comedy	I read LEND ME A TENOR and soon afterward saw in onstage.  Ken Ludwig (who also wrote MOON OVER BUFFALO and the libretto for the hit musical CRAZY FOR YOU) creates a madcap comedy that cleverly incorporates Italian opera into the action.  The setting is Cleveland in the 1930's.  The city's Grand Opera Company is presenting Giuseppe Verdi's OTELLO, to star world-famous Italian tenor &quot;Tito Merelli.&quot;  Max, a young novice tenor who works for the company's cantankerous manager, Mr. Saunders, himself dreams of singing the title role.  After Tito arrives in Cleveland, he gives Max a singing lesson and the two quickly become friends.  But when Tito's wife leaves him suddenly, he becomes distraught and drugged, and it is up to Max to save the performance!<BR>While TENOR is a laugh a minute, it is more than a farce.  The friendship that quickly develops between Max and Tito is very touching.  (For those of you who are wondering, the duet from Verdi's DON CARLO that they sing together in Act I is also known as the &quot;friendship duet.&quot;)  In addition, Max is a multi-dimensional character:  much more than just a &quot;wimp,&quot; he WANTS to sing in public, but his nervousness and fear hold him back.  What he needs is confidence, and this is what he finally gains.  Though TENOR is Max's story, the other characters are just as clearly delineated with funny dialogue and stage business.  In my opinion, TENOR ranks with Larry Shue's THE FOREIGNER as one of the finest comedies written during the 1980's.	2004-06-15
US	30875466	RZKDRWPICEGE6	0786100168	671044766	The Secret of Father Brown	Books	5	4	4	N	N	One of the best in the series	THE SECRET OF FATHER BROWN is unique among the Father Brown books because of its unusual integrated structure, which is somewhat reminiscent of the CANTERBURY TALES. The eight stories are framed by a prologue and an epilogue in which Father Brown is seen visiting Flambeau's house in France along with an American traveler, Mr. Chace. Chace wants Father Brown to explain his &quot;method&quot; of detection, the supposed &quot;secret&quot; which has made him famous. Brown attempts to demonstrate that unlike the modern science of criminology, he treats criminals not as remote monsters but as something familiar. Rather than than &quot;inspecting&quot; the criminal from afar, he tries to get &quot;inside&quot; the criminal, to understand what motivates him. This he does by discovering those qualities which he shares in common with the criminal and his own human potential for evil. Father Brown explains that his &quot;method&quot; is really like a religious exercise. The eight tales which follow are actually memories which pass through Father Brown's mind as he sits conversing with Flambeau and Chace, and which demonstrate Father Brown's unique &quot;method&quot;. Father Brown fans may find THE SECRET OF FATHER BROWN to be their favorite in the series, for its artful, ingenious structure and its intelligent discussion of the great priest-detective's technique.	2004-06-15
US	30875466	R2TJHKOKZGKEAB	0573615969	601882782	The Sunshine Boys (Acting Edition)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Brilliantly Comic Paean to Friendship	Critics have lately been calling THE SUNSHINE BOYS Neil Simon's masterpiece, and with good reason.  The play seems to be the comedy to end all comedies.  Its main characters, Al Lewis and Willie Clark, are elderly, retired vaudevillians who were a beloved team onstage but bicker over trivialities in real life.  Their interaction in the play - as well as Willie's interaction with his nephew and agent, Ben Silverman - is almost entirely in the form of sight gags and one-liners; this is the most flamboyantly theatrical of all Simon's comedies.  Yet, like THE ODD COUPLE, THE SUNSHINE BOYS is ultimately a celebration of friendship, as it eventually becomes clear that Al and Willie love and need each other, just as do Felix and Oscar in the earlier play.  Their final scene together is one of genuine pathos, and this is, after all, another essential ingredient of fine comedy.  As much as I love THE ODD COUPLE, THE SUNSHINE BOYS is my favorite Simon play, because, even more so than THE ODD COUPLE, it touches your heart as it makes you laugh out loud.	2004-06-09
US	30875466	RBGHA6E6TM30Q	082220911X	443837991	The Price: A Play	Books	5	4	4	N	N	THE PRICE Is a Gem	In Arthur Miller's 1968 play THE PRICE, two brothers, Victor and Walter Franz, meet in their late father's house to dispose of his property.  In the process, they confront old grudges, relieve guilt over past wrongs, and learn the difference between material success and spiritual fulfillment - all major themes in Miller's output as a whole.  Symbolism, a technique seen in such previous Miller plays as ALL MY SONS and DEATH OF A SALESMAN, is very important in THE PRICE, as well:  different objects in the Franz home represent different ideas.  What is unusual for Miller is the inclusion of a comic relief character:  the ancient dealer Gregory Solomon, who comes to set a price on the furniture.  Wise Solomon's appearances provide highly amusing commentary on the essential conflict between the brothers.  THE PRICE is a fascinating gem of a play that only seems more so with repeated readings.	2004-06-08
US	30875466	R22L9PE406S0N4	1892091240	764393978	Bob & Ray the Lost Episodes, Volume 1	Books	5	2	3	N	N	The world's greatest dead-pan comics!	Bob and Ray's dry humor will send you to dizzying heights of laughter. Anyone who doesn't know the work of this brilliant comedy team must start with CLASSIC BOB AND RAY, VINTAGE BOB AND RAY, or THE LOST EPISODES.	2004-06-02
US	30875466	R28CN6FODO3C71	014009766X	823772714	The Complete Father Brown (Father Brown Mystery)	Books	5	9	13	N	N	Read Chesterton!	I wish to comment on George Orwell's denunciation of Chesterton, quoted by one of the other reviewers. I think this comment is unfortunate coming as it does from a writer who was supposedly a champion of freedom and democracy. Orwell regrettably confuses sincere expounding of religious faith with political propaganda! Then he implies that being a Catholic is incompatible with being a man of intellect! I suppose that to Orwell the Catholic Church was just another big, bad  totalitarian organization like Communist Russia. Fortunately, the Church's &quot;propagandists&quot; like Chesterton use the weapons of reason and logic to win people over. While he denounced dictatorships in his writings, Orwell appears to have turned into a little dictator himself with this little quote. Read Chesterton, including his wonderful detective stories! In becoming a spokesman for the Catholic Church, he did not suppress his intellect, but on the contrary used it to the fullest.	2004-05-30
US	30875466	RICHBQQYZQLQF	1892091100	419494969	Classic Bob & Ray: Selections from a Career, 1946-1976: (Volume One: 4 Cassettes, 4 Hours (75 Selections))	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Bob and Ray fanatic says: Long live Bob and Ray!	In my opinion, Bob and Ray's stuff from the 1950's is by far their best. Then they were young, fresh - and often  improvisatory! Classic Bob and Ray Volume 1 includes four episodes of &quot;Matt Neffer, Boy Spotwelder&quot;, which has to be the most surreal, dream-like, (and utterly pointless) series ever conceived. There are also episodes of &quot;One Fella's Family&quot;, another of B &amp; R's great pieces. The bits with &quot;Arthur Sturdley&quot; <BR>(a take-off on radio personality Arthur Godfrey) are priceless!<br />B &amp; R's capacity for voices and characterization is amazing.<BR>This little-known comedy duo will bring you endless laughter, joy, and emotional health. Long live Bob and Ray!<br />Note: I know that &quot;Family&quot; was a parody of the popular soap opera &quot;On Man's Family&quot; and of the show &quot;Vic and Sade&quot;. But what was &quot;Matt Neffer&quot; based on, if anything? I'd be interested to know.	2004-05-29
US	30875466	R1TXCQSHTPKZ7C	1892091100	419494969	Classic Bob & Ray: Selections from a Career, 1946-1976: (Volume One: 4 Cassettes, 4 Hours (75 Selections))	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Bob and Ray fanatic says: Long live Bob and Ray!	In my opinion, Bob and Ray's stuff from the 1950's is by far their best. Then they were young, fresh - and often  improvisatory! CLASSIC BOB AND RAY VOLUME 1 includes four episodes of &quot;Matt Neffer, Boy Spotwelder&quot;, which has to be the most surreal, dream-like, (and utterly pointless) series ever conceived. There are also episodes of &quot;One Fella's Family&quot;, another of B &amp; R's great pieces. The bits with &quot;Arthur Sturdley&quot; <BR>(a take-off on radio personality Arthur Godfrey) are priceless! So are the episodes of &quot;Insomniac Theatre&quot; and the reports from Wally Ballou and Artie Schermerhorn. B &amp; R's capacity for voices and comic characterization is amazing. This little-known comedic duo will bring you endless laughter, joy, and emotional health. Long live Bob and Ray! And don't forget to buy THE BEST OF BOB AND RAY and BOB AND RAY, THE LOST EPISODES as well!<br />Note: I know that &quot;One Fella's Family&quot; was a parody of the popular soap opera &quot;On Man's Family&quot; and of the show &quot;Vic and Sade&quot;. But what was &quot;Matt Neffer&quot; based on, if anything? I'd be interested to know.	2004-05-29
US	30875466	RT61GVQK3M8GF	1892091100	419494969	Classic Bob & Ray: Selections from a Career, 1946-1976: (Volume One: 4 Cassettes, 4 Hours (75 Selections))	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Bob and Ray fanatic says: Long live Bob and Ray!	In my opinion, Bob and Ray's stuff from the 1950's is by far their best. Then they were young, fresh - and often  improvisatory! Classic Bob and Ray Volume 1 includes four episodes of &quot;Matt Neffer, Boy Spotwelder&quot;, which has to be the most surreal, dream-like, (and utterly pointless) series ever conceived. There are also episodes of &quot;One Fella's Family&quot;, another of B &amp; R's great pieces. The bits with &quot;Arthur Sturdley&quot;<BR>(a take-off on radio personality Arthur Godfrey) are priceless!<br />B &amp; R's capacity for voices and characterization is amazing.<BR>This little-known comedy duo will bring you endless laughter, joy, and emotional health. Long live Bob and Ray!<br />Note: I know that &quot;Family&quot; was a parody of the popular soap opera &quot;On Man's Family&quot; and of the show &quot;Vic and Sade&quot;. But what was &quot;Matt Neffer&quot; based on, if anything? I'd be interested to know.	2004-05-29
US	30875466	R1BEKHOU3EGGUF	0142000159	446043681	Brunelleschi's Dome: How a Renaissance Genius Reinvented Architecture	Books	5	2	2	N	N	An enjoyable read	This was a thoroughly enjoyable book. It combines serious technical discussions of architecture, biography, history, and amusing anecdotes. The scope of this book is particular enough to be manageable, but it also paints a broad canvas of  Renaissance life. Reading it while visiting Florence this spring helped me appreciate the story behind the dome a lot better. What I find amazing about this story is that the architects were largely improvising their modi operandi, and taking enormous risks along the way. No one was sure whether they would succeed in theis enormous feat, or whether the dome would collapse! All in all, it was a remarkable and  astonishing acheivement. Two  complaints about the book, however: the technical descriptions were a bit complicated and hard to grasp, especially without many diagrams - maybe, though, the problem is with me. Secondly, the author or editors need to correct the various misplaced accent marks in Italian words (eg. \\"felicita\\", \\"trinita\\", where the accent should go on the final letter). This may have been corrected in later  editions, but in my edition the accent marks are on the wrong letters.	2004-05-28
US	30875466	R2ZBHJS2WMJZB8	1892091062	918044087	The Best of Bob & Ray: Excerpts from the Bob & Ray Public Radio Show (Volume One: 4 Cassettes, 4 Hours (64 Selections))	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Brilliant Comedy!	Bob Elliott and Ray Goulding were a pair of brilliant and all too little-known comedians who came out of the golden age of radio. Their comedy was quite simply an endless satire of radio broadcasting itself. Actually, &quot;comedians&quot; sounds two obvious for their deadpan, parodistic humor - I think perhaps &quot;comic artists&quot; is more approriate. Instead of telling jokes, this comedic duo performed little plays where humor is created through characterization, irony, and word-play. This is verbal wit and high comedy at its best. Bob and Ray were too subtle to ever become really popular, but they always had a small and devoted following. Their dry, offbeat humor is impossible to adequately describe - you have to experience it to understand it. This award-winning compilation comes from the twilight of their long career - the 1980's. These particular performances come from Bob and Ray's Public Radio Show, and were recorded in front of a live audience, which only adds to the fun. There are dozens of B &amp; R sketches here, including numerous installments of their hilarious mock-soap opera, &quot;Garish Summit&quot;. Many classic B &amp; R characters make apperances. Buy these cassettes and be prepared to become delirious with laughter!	2004-05-25
US	30875466	R3AAZMWNZXPUW3	0573613311	743367206	The Odd Couple: A Comedy in Three Acts	Books	5	5	5	N	N	The Original &quot;Odd Couple&quot;	Being a huge fan of &quot;The Odd Couple&quot; television series, I finally decided to read the play on which the TV show is based. THE ODD COUPLE, which premiered in 1965, was Neil Simon's first big success. His writing is consistently amusing and often flat-out hilarious; I laughed especially hard during the first scene, in which Oscar Madison and his poker-playing friends are trying to prevent Felix Unger, just thrown out of his home by his wife, from committing suicide! This &quot;episode&quot; was, of course, the starting point for the TV series, but unlike the show, the play has a single plot: Felix and Oscar get together, quarrel, date the Pigeon sisters, quarrel again, and ultimately &quot;break up.&quot; Though the play is a comedy, there are interesting parallels to A STREETCAR NAMED DESIRE in Oscar's poker games, particularly the one in the last scene during which Felix leaves. THE ODD COUPLE is an excellent example of Simon's wit. Next, I would love to see it onstage!	2004-05-18
US	30875466	R1WIZ532UY2D5C	0312082738	523700689	Not Since Carrie: Forty Years of Broadway Musical Flops	Books	5	9	12	N	N	I can never put it down!	I have read NOT SINCE CARRIE from cover to cover several times.  Ken Mendelbaum's writing is witty, entertaining, and informative.  The first chapter, entitled &quot;Catastrophes and Camp,&quot; is the most hilarious, conjuring up &quot;ineffable mental pictures&quot; (Mendelbaum's words) of such all-out Broadway fiascos as KELLY, LEGS DIAMOND, and PRINCE OF CENTRAL PARK.  Later chapters, especially &quot;Missed Opportunities&quot; and &quot;Heartbreakers and Cream,&quot; are both funny and fascinating, describing musicals that might have been hits but, for whatever reason, were not.  The fifth chapter, &quot;Don't Let This Happen To You,&quot; is the most interesting, explaining in depth the reasons WHY particular shows failed.  Likewise, the book's epilogue examines the infamous CARRIE and finds that, after all, Stephen King's novel is not so bizarre a subject for a musical.  Because Mendelbaum is such a knowledgable theatre historian and gifted writer, NOT SINCE CARRIE, riotously funny as it is, is also a valuable piece of musical theatre scholarship.	2004-04-01
US	30875466	RY7FX3KE5JAVE	0141185465	239341529	All My Sons (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	An Early Example of Miller's Genius	This 1947 play contains all of the basic themes that would figure prominently in such later Miller masterpieces as DEATH OF A SALESMAN, THE CRUCIBLE, and A VIEW FROM THE BRIDGE.  Joe Keller is a former airplane part manufacturer who during WWII allowed defective parts to be shipped out -- in order to save his own job -- then blamed his partner, Steve Deever, for the \\"oversight\\" when the planes crashed.  A particularly disturbing aspect of the drama is that Joe's wife, Kate, knows the truth about her husband's crime but chooses to keep silence for the sake of her own belief that Larry, the Kellers' elder son who went missing in action, is still alive.  The essential  themes in ALL MY SONS are the individual's responsibility to his family versus his responsibility to society at large, and the possibility -- or impossibility -- that a man may lead a \\"normal\\" life while knowing that he betrayed his own family.  It is chilling the way Miller has Keller's guilt gradually force itself to the surface during the course of the play, until we at last see him in all his guilt and shame as a tragic figure.  I  encourage you to read this excellent, early Miller work.	2004-03-21
US	30875466	R3820VEA0XBM8C	0553269151	813629861	Inherit the Wind	Books	5	17	17	N	N	One of the Modern Theatre's Best	Though it is based on the Scopes Trial, which took place in Tennessee in 1925, INHERIT THE WIND is essentially a work of fiction; even the names of the principal characters have been changed (John Scopes is now Bertram Cates; Clarence Darrow is Henry Drummond; William Jennings Bryan becomes Matthew Harrison Brady).  In addition, the setting of the play is non-specific:  a certain southern town, \\"not long ago.\\"  IDEAS are what the play is about, and like most great works of art, INHERIT THE WIND does not offer simple answers.  Just as Drummond argues for \\"the right to think,\\" so does the play allow the reader/audience member to consider many possibilities.  For instance, in the play's final moments Drummond places both a copy of Darwin's book and a Bible in his briefcase, then leaves the courtroom.  This suggests the possibility that  science and religion might be compatible.  Because he is willing to consider both theories, Drummond is very unlike both Brady, who believed in a literal interpretation of the Bible, and the cynical reporter E.K. Hornbeck (originally H.L. Mencken -- the \\"Greek chorus character,\\" or commentator, who speaks in free verse), who completely rejects Brady's ideas.  It is in fact Brady who emerges as a true tragic figure; it is also Brady who undergoes change and is therefore the most complex character in the play.  INHERIT THE WIND has everything:  a tragic hero, colorful characters and dialogue,  gripping courtroom scenes, and a skillfully foreshadowed, climactic death.  Also recommended:  the 1960 film version, starring Spencer Tracy as Drummond and Frederic March as Brady.	2004-03-20
US	30875466	R5471GS1YBDT2	1558748989	832262211	Chicken Soup for the Jewish Soul: 101 Stories to Open the Heart and Rekindle the Spirit (Chicken Soup for the Soul)	Books	5	5	7	N	N	It really IS like Jewish penicillin!	The Larry Trapp story is amazing, and I was deeply touched by the Billings, Montana, the \\"Rabbi's blessing,\\" and the Ed Koch/Mother Teresa stories and the Anne Frank excerpt.  These are stories about the power of human kindness and about the value ALL people have to God.  I am not Jewish myself, but I loved this book.  It shows that (in the words of Voltaire) \\"prejudice is the reason of fools.\\"	2004-03-09
US	30875466	R9LXBEJ2QWXPP	0811214044	259104259	The Glass Menagerie	Books	5	0	0	N	N	From the Golden Age of American Drama	THE GLASS MENAGERIE, written in 1944, is a painfully poignant drama about a crippled girl, Laura Wingfield, who is so shy and insecure that she spends her days in her mother's house, playing old phonograph records left by her father, who deserted the family long ago, and caring for her collection of glass figurines (\\"the glass menagerie\\").  Laura's mother, Amanda, is an old-fashioned \\"southern belle,\\" charming but emotionally weak; though she finds fault with Laura and her shyness, Amanda lives in her own world of illusions.  She dreams of a business career for Laura; when this fails, she dreams that Laura will find a handsome \\"gentleman\\" to marry.  Aside from the \\"gentleman caller,\\" the other character in the play is Laura's brother, Tom, who also dreams - of being an artist, another \\"Shakespeare.\\"  Tom is both a character in the drama and its narrator; in this way, THE GLASS MENAGERIE is a \\"memory play\\":  its action is RECOUNTED by a narrator, Tom.  The similarities between this play and both A STREETCAR NAMED DESIRE and Arthur Miller's DEATH OF A SALESMAN are striking.  All three of these works deal with the contrast between illusion - dreams -and reality.  In STREETCAR, Blanche du Bois is a delicate, refined \\"southern belle,\\" who prefers to live in a dream-world; in this way she is like both Laura and Amanda Wingfield.  But I find the parallels with SALESMAN even more interesting.  These begin with the opening stage directions, which describe the set of the Wingfield's house as having transparent walls (so that Tom can narrate, then walk through the walls into \\"the past\\" to become a character in the play) and as being located in an overcrowded section of town.  In SALESMAN, the Lomans' home has transparent walls for the very same purpose - so that the characters can exist both in the present and in the past - and is at the same time shown to be \\"boxed in\\" with many other houses, showing the desperation and helplessness of the family's situation.  Like Willy Loman, Amanda has great but unrealistic hopes for her children.  And like Biff Loman, Tom Wingfield is bored with his menial job and dreams of being free to create and to go where he likes.  Jim, the gentleman caller, also resembles Biff in that he was a success in high school but now, six years later, is only a shipping clerk - yet he believes in the myth that a winning personality will eventually make him a success.  That  MENAGERIE and the later SALESMAN resemble each other in so many respects means that Miller must have admired and learned from Williams.  Indeed, the twentieth century was extremely fortunate to have had these two great dramatists writing practically simultaneously.  THE GLASS MENAGERIE is certainly one of the jewels from that golden age -- the 1910's to the 1950's -- of American drama.	2004-02-25
US	30875466	R27ZMZ3CBRT8D8	0822204185	736742017	The Foreigner	Books	5	12	13	N	N	A Marvelous Modern Comedy	I saw THE FOREIGNER in two different productions, and they were two of the most enjoyable evenings I have spent in the theater yet.  We also studied the play in a university English course, which really made me appreciate Larry Shue's skill and subtlety as a playwright.  Charley Baker is a shy Englishman traveling in rural Georgia with his friend, \\"Froggy\\" Le Seur, a member of the British army.  The two men visit an inn run by Froggy's old friend, Betty Meeks.  Charley is in the midst of marital problems, so Froggy decides to leave him at the inn for a few days so that he can enjoy some peace and quiet.  But Charley is terrified of having to make any conversation at all with the   inhabitants of the inn, who besides the gregarious Betty include a (crooked) Reverend and his (pregnant) fiance, Catherine, and her slow-witted little brother, Ellard.<BR>So Froggy has an idea:  he will tell Betty that Charley is a foreigner and speaks no English.  This gives Charley the peace he wants, as well as providing excitement for the others, who have never seen a \\"real live foreigner\\" before.  It also leads to many hilarious situations - and eventually to a run-in with the loathsome Owen Musser and his Ku Klux Klan boys.  But Charley, through sheer cleverness and courage, defeats the Klan and all ends happily.<BR>THE FOREIGNER is a one-of-a-kind play.  It deals with serious problems, like racism and the Klan, by looking them in the face and laughing at them.  Shue is not at all afraid of humor.  He is also not afraid of villains, of whom this play has two:  Owen and the Reverend, David Marshall Lee.  Too often modern playwrights simply make a villain of \\"society\\" or some other institution.  It is a harder job to create convincing individuals who are evil - but Shue does this marvelously.  He is also an intelligent playwright:  he includes in this modern comedy such classical character types as the \\"tricky servant\\" (Froggy), a \\"humour character\\" or a character with an obsession (Charley) - and, of course, the villains, who are so well-drawn that they seem like real people rather than like mere mouthpieces for the Klan.  Shue had extraordinary talent, and I would like to thank him for leaving us THE FOREIGNER, a comedy good for all time.	2004-02-19
US	30875466	R192UM6E9KG6P5	0425091805	653534023	Three Act Tragedy (Hercule Poirot Mysteries)	Books	5	22	22	N	N	A Tragedy in Three Acts	THREE ACT TRAGEDY is one of my favorite \\"Hercule Poirot\\" novels.  Its characters are intriguing, and the solution to the crime is amazingly clever.  Agatha Christie establishes an atmosphere of foreboding in the very first chapter, as the likeable Mr. Satterthwaite (who here fills the role of the absent Captain Hastings) sits on the terrace of the Crows Nest resort, remarking on the personalities and the actions of the people around him, who include the retired actor Sir Charles Cartwright and the respected doctor Sir Bartholemew Strange.  From here, the novel takes the form of a \\"tragedy in three acts,\\" with a new murder in each act and a series of clues, both real and \\"staged.\\"  While some readers may be disappointed to find that the great Poirot is absent from the novel for chapters at a time, there is good reason for this -- and he does indeed play a starring role in the \\"final act.\\"  I believe that anyone who loves Christie and Poirot will love THREE ACT TRAGEDY.	2004-02-04
US	30875466	R31KZ0ZMKAU78B	0425173895	121809515	The Murder of Roger Ackroyd (Hercule Poirot Mysteries)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Ingenious!	Having been gripped for two days by THE MURDER OF ROGER ACKROYD, I can say that it is a superbly written novel.  It certainly is ingenious the way Agatha Christie conceals the identity of the murderer from the reader until the final chapters.  The last chapter of all is chilling.  As a narrative and as a mind-puzzle, THE MURDER OF ROGER ACKROYD is a great detective story...possibly one of the greatest ever written.	2004-01-20
US	30875466	R2FKSYWR76SL9A	0140481389	907196342	The Crucible (Penguin Plays)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Miller's Masterpiece?	As much as I love DEATH OF A SALESMAN (my favorite play), A VIEW FROM THE BRIDGE (a gripping modern Greek tragedy), and ALL MY SONS (a sadly underrated play), I am sometimes convinced that THE CRUCIBLE is Arthur Miller's masterpiece.  It is Shakespearean in structure and has a large cast of intriguing characters, the most fascinating of whom is the protagonist, John Proctor.  Unlike SALESMAN's Willy Loman, Proctor is a true tragic hero, because his \\"fall from grace\\" - his adultery - makes it necessary for him to face a series of trials that test, with ever-increasing severity, his moral character (hence the play's title).  In the end, Proctor loses his life but saves his soul - or his \\"name,\\" as he calls it.  I find the final image of Proctor tearing his false confession and following his friends to the gallows extremely moving.  Proctor is a hero because, though flawed, he is a basically good man who is tested to his limits and ultimately passes the tests.  Proctor does what is right even when it means he must sacrifice his life.  Having read the play four times and seen it twice, I do think that some may find it a bit too \\"cerebral.\\"  This is because Miller has so many IDEAS about the meaning of good and evil and of honor, justice, etc., and his characters spend a lot of time TALKING about them.  There is a lack of action in THE CRUCIBLE if one compares it to (say) A VIEW FROM THE BRIDGE.  However, the theatricality of the sequences in which the girls of Salem seem to be possessed by demons more than compensates for static stretches in which the characters talk only (for instance, the scene in which Reverend Hale is questioning the Proctors).  Is THE CRUCIBLE Miller's masterpiece, after all?  I haven't decided yet.  But it is a fascinating drama with a great tragic hero, John Proctor.	2004-01-19
US	30875466	RXMNEXCILEA82	1579120199	378911431	Madama Butterfly (Black Dog Opera Library)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	One of the Best Recordings of BUTTERFLY	Renata Scotto, Carlo Bergonzi, and Rolando Panerai make a superb team, both in their singing and in their acting, for MADAMA BUTTERFLY.  Another advantage of the recording (made in 1966) is the stereo sound, which allows all the details of Puccini's rich orchestration to be heard.  Listening to this BUTTERFLY is almost as good as hearing a live performance of the opera.  The accompanying book is very informative about Puccini, the opera itself, and the artists.  It also has lush illustrations and includes a complete libretto in Italian and English.  In short, this is another exceptional \\"Black Dog Opera Library\\" set.	2003-10-24
US	30875466	R3OJQUDACD9QWU	0140481354	406245049	A View from the Bridge (Penguin Plays)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	A True Tragedy	I have loved A VIEW FROM THE BRIDGE since the first time I read it, three years ago.  It is a tautly written, exciting drama in which one can practically see the tragic end coming, \\"step by step, like a dark figure walking down a hall toward a certain door\\" (in the words of Alfieri, the lawyer in the play).  But as well as the play \\"reads,\\" it is absolutely ELECTRIFYING when seen on stage -- as I found out just yesterday, when I saw a production of it.  The actor who played Eddie Carbone, the protagonist, made the character very sympathetic; as a result, the play's ending was truly tragic.  Read A VIEW FROM THE BRIDGE, but also try to see a production of it, if you possibly can.  I will admit, though, that it is not performed that often -- not nearly as often as it deserves to be.	2003-10-20
US	30875466	R3PRUKLR991VR6	1884822835	911612620	La Bohme (The Black Dog Opera Library)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Beautiful Book with Fine Recording	I bought this book and CD set a few years ago to learn the opera LA BOHEME.  The beautifully illustrated book includes a history of the opera and of Puccini's career, a clearly printed libretto in Italian and English, and information on the conductor and the principal singers.  The recording is a fine one, dominated by the partnership of Nicolai Gedda and Mirella Freni as Rodolfo and Mimi.  Gedda has a firm, pure tenor and a delightful sense of humor too often missing from portrayals of Rodolfo.  I also like his sad sigh in the last act just before Mimi dies:  it's a refreshing change from the outright weeping usually heard at this point in the opera.  Freni lights up the performance with her luminous, youthful lyric soprano.  The supporting cast are all-Italian and make a good team, and Maestro Thomas Schippers paces the opera nicely.  This book and CD set is a wonderful bargain for anyone wanting to learn LA BOHEME.  Check out the other Black Dog Opera Library sets, too.	2003-10-18
US	30875466	R2SSK2WZHZ6HQ5	0140432159	479545350	Clarissa: Or the History of a Young Lady (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	I couldn't put it down	I decided to read Richardson's CLARISSA after having so enjoyed his PAMELA in an eighteenth-century literature course.  As excellent as PAMELA is, CLARISSA is truly Richardson's masterpiece.  The author's technique of &quot;writing to the moment&quot; is at its most riveting here, not least during the title character's death scene.  I found this scene in particular (as well as the entire section of the novel that leads up to it) extremely moving; for me it is the novel's highlight.  If you enjoy novels, eighteenth century ones especially, you must read CLARISSA; it does take a long time to read, but it is definitely worth it.	2003-07-15
US	30875466	R39JZWF7XESEJ	0140437428	596871917	The Old Curiosity Shop (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Immerse Yourself in This Haunting Work	I have long been an admirer of Charles Dickens, but I had never read THE OLD CURIOSITY SHOP until fairly recently.  I read the novel over the course of two weeks, completely immersing myself in it (I've found that this is the best way to read Dickens).  Words fail me to describe this novel, so I'll quote from Dickens scholar Norrie Epstein:  \\"If Italian director Frederico Fellini had been an English novelist writing in the age of Victoria, <BR>THE OLD CURIOSITY SHOP could have been his LA STRADA.  Dickens' novel is a curious work, by turns a circus and a funeral.  Like a reverie, a nightmare, and a vision -- and the shop itself -- the novel brings together startling, contradictory themes, images, and objects\\" (THE FRIENDLY DICKENS, p. 120).<BR>THE OLD CURIOSITY SHOP, in other words, is a typically  Dickensian work, combining the morbid, the sentimental, and the absurdly hilarious.  The young protagonist, Nell Trent, is a sad and pathetic figure who faces trial after trial until she is finally worn out and dies a premature death.  As sad as Nell's story is, I also found myself laughing out loud at the roguish but essentially good-hearted secondary character of Dick Swiveller.  At the same time, the dwarf Quilp is both comic and menacing:  his (implicitly stated) aim is obviously to defile the innocent young Nell.  Only Dickens, it seems, can so successfully alternate tragic and comic scenes and characters in the same novel.  If you're an admirer of Dickens' \\"tragi-comic\\" style, you should read THE OLD CURIOSITY SHOP.	2003-07-15
US	30875466	R26H0OUAU2DQT1	0192839438	470650888	An Enemy of the People; The Wild Duck; Rosmersholm (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Three Wonderful Plays by the Master of Modern Drama	A professor of mine told me that AN ENEMY OF THE PEOPLE is not a very good play, so I read it myself to find out...and I disagree with my professor!  I think AN ENEMY OF THE PEOPLE is a powerful play on the timeless theme of the individual's relation to society.  The \\"mob scene\\" in Act IV is a particularly intense piece of dramatic writing that reminded me of the \\"trial scenes\\" in such later, American plays as THE CRUCIBLE and INHERIT THE WIND.  Several years ago I saw an outstanding local production of THE CRUCIBLE; I would love to see AN ENEMY OF THE PEOPLE onstage as well.<BR>THE WILD DUCK, however, is my favorite play by Ibsen; I definitely agree with those critics who say that it is his masterpiece.  I have read it three or four times, and each time I am amazed at Ibsen's skill.  The play is a painful, poignant exploration of lost innocence, embodied in the character of Hedvig, a young girl on the verge of womanhood. If I could see only one more Ibsen play onstage (I've already seen HEDDA GABLER and THE LADY FROM THE SEA), it would be THE WILD DUCK.  In fact, I'd love to direct it myself someday!	2003-07-02
