US	30994630	RC2IOSSQJO9L5	0380815583	618770208	An Offer From a Gentleman (Bridgerton Series, Bk. 3)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	a Regency Cinderella	Although this story is unbelievably close to the traditional story of Cinderella, it's still a must-read!<br />Benedict thought he'd never find the one until he saw a splendid vision in silver...and he just KNEW that she was the woman that he belonged to. But he had let her slip through his fingers that long ago night. After months of searching for her, he has nearly given up hope, though he still has dreams about her. Then, saving a pretty servant from a party, Benedict once again feels the emotions that he had experienced only one other time in his life, with the silver siren. This time, he refuses to let go, even though she can be nothing more than a mistress...<br />Which is a position that Sophie Beckett refuses to fill! Benedict was the Prince Charming that had filled her dreams ever since that magical night when she had slipped away to the Bridgerton masquerade. An earl's [illegitimate] daughter, she had once had the privilege genteel ladies of the ton had...however, after her father remarried and died, she is left to do the work of three maids. After she is kicked out, she meets Benedict again as he saves her from near rape. But how can she be his mistress when she has vowed never to bring an illegitimate child into this world to suffer as she did? She can only accept marriage, but Benedict being who he is, the possibility is nil.<br />A heartwarming story to the end, especially the end!	2004-03-29
US	30994630	R2UE5I8P7ZZTCF	0380820846	788536867	Romancing Mister Bridgerton (Bridgerton Series, Book 4)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	great regency romance	Colin Bridgerton is without a doubt, THE most charming man in all of London. One look at his devilish grin or his beautiful green eyes and the women fall at his feet. And with his glib mouth, he can get out of almost anything. Until one day, speaking out of frustration, he claims that he will never marry Penelope Featherington, in PUBLIC. And Penelope heard!    Now years later, after having travelled extensively throughout Europe, the irresistable Mr. Bridgerton is back in London for the season, at the age of 33, while Penelope has become a spinster at 28.    But somehow, things aren't the same. When Colin looks at Penelope, he's struck by how big her eyes are and what a dreamy shade of brown they appear to be and how voluptous her body is. Not to mention how intelligent and funny and witty and kind she is.    Penelope, on the other hand, has known how amazing Colin was since 2 days before her 16th birthday. And she is surprised that he would even express such interest in her, let alone ask for her hand in marriage! But Colin's determined to make Penelope his, and he is willing to prove his love to her.    The mysterious identity of Lady Whistledown is revealed here, even though I think that any avid reader of the Bridgerton series would have figured it out by the second book.    It's a pleasure to read.	2004-03-29
US	30994630	R3OOGSJQ1PFO5O	0380800829	704647865	The Duke and I (Bridgerton Series, Book 1)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	refreshing introduction to Quinn	The Duke and I is a splendid book and a great introduction to the writing style of Julia Quinn!<br />Simon Basset has never been perfect in his father's eyes, and having failed, he's decided to thwart his father forever by being everything his father never thought he would be, including refusing to marry and continue the long and mighty Hastings ducal line. And however much he wants Daphne Bridgerton, he refuses to go back on his vow.<br />Daphne has always been friendly...so friendly in fact, that potential suitors never consider her a likely candidate for marriage. That is, until Daphne meets Simon. Even though he tries to be aloof, not only because of his vow but because Anthony Bridgerton (a long-time friend of Simon's) threatens his neck, Simon cannot help but be attracted to Daphne during the span of their pretend courtship.<br />Caught in a compromising position, they are forced to wed, and both are at the beginning of a journey to learn more about themselves and each other. Of course, included is a healthy dose of humor. Julia Quinn is IMHO, one of the best writers of witty dialogue, not to mention the incredible Lady Whistledown! Her books are bound to make you laugh out loud.	2004-03-29
US	30994630	R30V52V4LOS9NZ	0380815575	722221564	The Viscount Who Loved Me (Bridgerton Series, Bk. 2)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	funniest romance i've read to date	The Viscount Who Loved Me is one of the best books in the series, filled with dry and witty humor, making the storyline sparkle!    Anthony Bridgerton needed a wife and heir before he died prematurely just like his father before him. He's picked out the perfect bride, a diamond of the first water, the Season's Incomparable. The only problem is her older sister Kate, a wilted daffodil, who is certain that Anthony's rake reputation will not make him suitable for her sister.    Anthony refuses to let this little obstacle stop him and sets to make certain Kate knows that, even though everytime they're together, sparks and insults fly. However, Kate slowly begins to see Anthony's innate goodness and realizes that she can't refuse his suit any longer. But now that Anthony is free to woo Edwina, he finds that he misses Kate.    An unfortunate though hilarious incident force them to marry, though Kate is still under the impression that Anthony wants her sister. But as usual, they slowly realize their deep love for each other. What's even better is that this discovery happens amongst numerous hilarious scenes involving other members of the enormous Bridgerton family!    It's a book to treasure!	2004-03-29
US	30994630	R389N8C4F8F53K	0425194566	883260134	Souvenir of Love (Berkley Sensation)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	enjoyable...	Souvenir of Love is the sequel to Novins' Souvenir Countess. Though I have to say that these are superb first books, this story lacks a bit in the love department and leaves many questions unanswered. In this aspect, the Souvenir Countess dealt better with these problems.<br />Elizabeth Harcrest is eligible, beautiful, rich, and reckless. And in love with James Dinsmore, the future Duke of Dinsmore. What she doesn't know is that he's agreed to help his sister plot her bitter revenge against the Harcrests by seducing then exposing Elizabeth to the elite of the ton, thereby ruining her reputation forever.<br />What James doesn't expect to feel is a crushing guilt that lays heavily on his conscience, resulting in him becoming a spy in order to escape from it. As he is conferring with Rafe (Elizabeth's brother and the hero of Souvenir Countess), Elizabeth's hears through a thin wall and demands that he bring her on this \\"adventure\\". With no way out, James reluctantly lets her tag along as his pretend bride.<br />The romantic aspect of the plot is very weak as there are barely any scenes in which the hero and heroine experience sexual tension. Bedroom scenes that have great potential are skipped over with haste and the scene where she loses her virginity to him is far too short considering how long the reader had to wait for it. I could hardly see the emotional growth between that led them to fall in love with each other. Several times, I felt Elizabeth too selfish and spoiled while James is too weak and subversive.<br />The ending of the story is a cliffhanger of sorts which I didn't appreciate...I feel that an epilogue would have made the book much better.	2004-03-11
US	30994630	R1NUF78FSH5GW3	042519387X	622220743	The Souvenir Countess (Berkley Sensation)	Books	5	2	4	N	N	great first!	The Souvenir Countess is one of the best non-Regency romances I've read up to date. The plot is intriguing and the characters are three-dimensional.<br />Rafe Harcrest is a man who likes to plan out his life and future. Therefore, as he's decided to have a family, he's chosen out the perfect, poised, passionless bride. However, as he's about to propose, he develops a sudden impulse..to run away to France...<br />Where he meets the lovely, yet frustrating Alix de Rabec de la Brou, a fugitive aristocrat. Having given his word that he would see her safe, he has no choice (at least in his opinion) but to marry so that (since they discovered her mother fled to London) when they arrive in England, they would not be fodder for a scandal.<br />Yet he never counted on wanting the marriage to last...or that Alix may be in yet more danger. As these two stubborn blue-bloods clash in a match of wills, the fun begins, with a delightful sprinkling of laugh-out-loud dialogue and internal monologues (esp. of jealousy).<br />This book is a joy to read, filled with passion, witty dialogue, and just the right mix of danger/intrigue. Don't miss the sequel, A Souvenir of Love.	2004-03-07
US	30994630	R3D6J62BK3XOE0	0449006352	249824558	Prince Charming (Ascension Trilogy (Paperback))	Books	5	1	1	N	N	amazing!	Prince Charming is, in my opinion, the best in the trilogy.<br />Rafe the Rake, the charming crown prince of Ascencion, has never been taken seriously, but when King Lazar fears that he might soon die and decides to travel to Spain to visit Serafina (Princess), Rafael di Fiore becomes the Prince Regent. An opportunity Rafe has waited all his life for, but with it, come all the responsibilities that no one trusted him to have the abilities for and a secret conspiracy that he is in danger of falling victim to.<br />Daniela Chiaramonte is the infamous Masked Rider, whose brave Robin Hood-like adventures have won her the heart of Ascencion's people. From the day Rafe saw her, he knew that he wanted this innocent, stubborn woman.<br />So, proposing marriage when she is captured, Rafe tells her that he is only hoping the Masked Rider will help sway the public's opinion of him. However, as they fight to keep their marriage and the throne of Ascencion, they discover just how far each will go to protect the other, and the depth of their love.<br />However, there were a few parts where Rafe gets a bit pushy, though, the prince that he is, he always remains a gentleman. This truly fantastic story moved me to tears. Don't miss it or the rest of the Ascencion trilogy!!	2004-03-05
US	30994630	R3CTUVTNWZUKWB	0449002462	10369433	Princess: (Book 2 in the Ascension Trilogy) (Ascension Trilogy (Paperback))	Books	5	2	3	N	N	another foley great!	The Princess is the tale of a jaded, lost hero who rediscovers the joy of love with the princess of his dreams.<br />Darius Santiago has been in love with Princess Serafina, his protectee, since she blossomed into a beautiful, young woman. But he knows that King Lazar (who adopted him as ward) would never approve of such a match, especially since Serafina is engaged to the mighty Prince Anatole in order to save Ascencion from Napolean's attack.<br />Serafina has always been in love with the darkly handsome Santiago. But having been rejected once, she believes that his recent attraction to her is only because she is forbidden fruit.<br />Darius risks death in order to keep Serafina in her protective, little bubble world, uncovering dangerous evidence against her fiance and her failed kidnappers. But as he finally succumbs to his feelings, he realizes that only by unveiling his darkest secrets to her can he hope to keep her forever as his bride.<br />This is a fantastic sequel to the Pirate Prince and even though some reviewers seem to think that Lazar and Allegra aren't stellar parents, I can only see their love for Serafina and Rafael. Lazar dotes on her constantly, wrapped around her little finger. As always, Foley's books are filled with interesting plot twists and devious villains that I've come to enjoy as part of her romance book experience.	2004-03-02
US	30994630	R2O37XR39IYL1F	0449002470	900263604	The Pirate Prince (Ascension Trilogy (Paperback))	Books	5	5	5	N	N	spectacular	The Pirate Prince is one of the best Foley books out there...and Foley is not a second-rate author! It will take you on a fantastic voyage that you'd never expect in a romance book.<br />Lazar di Fiore was cheated from his rightful throne as king of Ascencion and Allegra is the daughter of his archenemy.<br />As he fights to conquer his inner demons and find the strength to return to his kingdom and continue his family's seven hundred year rule, the connection between him and Allegra grow deep, with Lazar revealing nearly all his secret anguish.<br />Allegra, now knowing what a traitor her father is, is determined to help Lazar gain back his pride, honor, and kingdom at any price...even if she has to give up her heart.<br />As always, Ms. Foley brings a whole new dimension to romance, faultlessly bringing her characters to life and weaving an intricate tale that involves so much more than your ordinary fairytale, yet there is no denying that the characters' love for each other is soul-binding and everlasting.	2004-02-29
US	30994630	R36CD1TL3DU587	0449006379	734231472	Lord of Fire	Books	5	1	1	N	N	another great by foley	Lord of Fire features the younger twin, Lucien, who is a soldier-turned-spy...and alone. In order to obtain enemy information, he forms a secret &quot;club&quot; in the Grotto...until one night, when an innocent walks in on his party...<br />Alice Montague, prim and virtuous, is shocked to discover Lucien's underworld, yet needs to find her sister-in-law in order to bring her back to her son. This is fine, until she finds herself trapped in Lucien's ultimatum, to live with him for a week.<br />Add on action scenes like no other and a sneakpeek into his twin's life and it results in a well-rounded, carefully thought out romance novel that is definitely not your average roll-in-the-hay. So far, Foley has not disappointed me. Her books broach subjects that other authors maybe are...afraid...to approach in a romance novel, but I feel that she integrates it seamlessly into her stories. Bravo!	2004-02-27
US	30994630	R32KLNRHAAS4BK	0449006360	894257952	The Duke	Books	5	2	3	N	N	the duke and the courtesan	Wow...I decided to try Foley after reading the wonderful reviews and boy, is she every bit worth the 7 dollars!<br />The story captivating, enchanting, devastating, and emotional. It truly captures your heart as you journey through Bel's life.<br />Belinda (Bel) Hamilton is a gentlewoman turned courtesan. Robert is the Duke of Hawkscliffe, the &quot;Paragon Duke&quot;. Together they strive to solve the mysterious death of Robert's love and along the way, the paragon discovers that Bel isn't the vain harlot he took her to be and also discovers that society's rules should not always be followed.<br />As these two embark on their physical as well as emotional journey, they discover a deep wound in themselves that only the other can heal in addition to realizing that there is a deeper secret to the death of Robert's former love.<br />Surprising twists and turns that I would not expect of a romance novel make this one of my top picks! I'm glad to have discovered Gaelen Foley!	2004-02-13
US	30994630	R1WM6G1D07OYC2	0451210654	801353308	Winter Fire	Books	3	5	8	N	N	dull and unbelievable	I picked up Winter Fire before I got on the plane for an 18-hr. ride. After a few chapters, I was snoozing. On the way back, I tried to pick it up again, and still didn't get through more than half the book. I finally finished it yesterday after a month and a half. For someone who stays up till the crack of dawn to finish various other romance books, I think this says a lot.<br />The Marquess of Ashart needs to marry money in order to save his estates. Genova Smith has no money. But they pretend to be engaged so that Ashart can go to his cousin's (aka mortal enemy) mansion for Christmas, in order to get revenge for an age-old mystery involving the two families. And of course, Genova and Ash end up together. However, Ash only wanted her to be his mistress because he needs to marry money. Then, the next day, he decides that he wants to marry her and the story ends.<br />I would say the beginning third of the book was pure, undiluted dullness. Basically nothing happened except that the main characters meet and get caught in a \\"bad\\" position and decide to be engaged. Ashart is definitely NOT my idea of a romantic hero. He is under his grandmother's power for most of the book and figures that there's no other way rather than to marry a rich heiress. He has no control of his own destiny it seems, and the hate that he has against his cousin appears to me as no more than a childish grudge that he's been brainwashed to believe by his grandmother.<br />Genova on the other hand, is attracted to Ash, but still hesitant to be physically close to him. However, when Ash suggests that he would give her a guinea for every kiss with her, she is not hesitant at all to provide him with those kisses (albeit the money is for Ash's so-called bastard son).<br />All in all, the hero is a meek man who was under the full control and influence of his grandmother until the last two pages of the book. His grandmother takes care of his estates and he basically has nothing to do. Someone who isn'this own man and doesn't have his own mind is not appealing to be in a hero. And with the addition of the murder intrigues (which haven't really been solved) and other subplots, the story had no time to develop real emotion and was a disappointment.	2004-02-07
US	30994630	RFP79RZCZBTIN	0671776800	218610853	Paradise (The Paradise series)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	extraordinary	This was actually my introduction to romance novels instead of just 100-pager stories. But I have to say that the second time around was better.<br />Matt is intelligent, dominating, intense, sinfully handsome, determined, sweet, loving, and from the wrong side of the tracks. Meredith is gentle, kind, heartstoppingly beautiful, elegent, intelligent, and is a rich heiress of a nationwide, exclusive department store chain...with a father who refuses to let her do anything because he thinks that she will take after her mother, who he believed, had cheated on him all those years ago.<br />The night they meet, a bond was automatically established...a kiss shared...and her father witnessed it. Seething mad and claiming that she is no better than her mother, he tears Meredith apart. Full of hurt, she gives herself to Matt to get back at her dad...and becomes pregnant. Matt agrees to marriage and they live with each other for six days before Matt has to go to Venezuela to work in the mines (he needs the bonus as investment for his future plans). But they have already fallen in love...until Meredith's father tears them apart...and causes them to hate each other for the next eleven years...<br />As they meet again, Matt one of the world's most eligible bachelors, Meredith engaged to be married in two months, there is still an undeniable attraction and connection and when Matt finds out that they are still married, he plans to use it as a way to embarrass both Meredith and her father, the people who have caused him so much hurt and anguish. Halfway through this, they both discover their father's part in their separation, and Matt no longer wants a divorce, forcing Meredith to spend time with him in order to rekindle their love. As suspicions are planted into her head again by her father, Meredith has to decide whether she will trust Matt wholeheartedly.<br />It's an extremely touching story, with side stories that I wish were more developed (between her father and her mother,between her best friend and her fiance). Matt is the ULTIMATE man and Meredith the PERFECT woman. They are a pair made in romance-book heaven! He is her match in every way. And the love that he has for her is so true and pure. When he discovers the truth, he determinedly wins her back, though his heart is trembling every single step of the way. And while Meredith tries to resist him, the flame that had never really died, roars back to life...and she is powerless not to fall in love all over again...or fall in love harder than before.<br />I HIGHLY recommend this story!	2003-12-17
US	30994630	R2OAZXVJFCPYTF	0380811065	920055797	Lady Sophia's Lover (Bow Street, Book 2)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	a bit dull...(some spoilers)	Lady Sophia had come to avenge the &quot;death&quot; of her beloved brother, the now notorious Nick Gentry...the same man that Ross (the man she thinks killed her brother John) is trying to catch.<br />Sophia waltzes into Ross's office, practically seducing and forcing him to give her the job of secretary and Ross finally agrees. However, her plan to seduce and incriminate him falls apart as she finds out that he is not the man she thought he was. And they begin to fall in love...with a few VERY steamy scenes which had me blushing like crazy (Sophia is not a virgin).<br />Then Sophia receives unexpected and expensive gifts from a stranger. As Ross investigates who his ladylove's stalker might be, the truth comes out as Sophia is &quot;captured&quot; by Nick Gentry. But how can Sophia marry Ross when him and Nick are sworn enemies? You'll have to read to find out!<br />The book overall was ok, though it was not the best thing I've ever read. The storyline was a bit weak, her plan to seduce him falls through rather quickly. Sophia's previous lover appears for one page and then disappears and Ross's brother's cameo seems unneccessary to the entire novel. Just a lot of secondary characters that were trivial and flat. And some parts were written, in my opinion, as if the author was just trying to find some way to squeeze in some love scenes.	2003-12-15
US	30994630	R1Q9JE15XB7VEH	0671742566	546443686	Tender Triumph (Sonnet Books)	Books	4	25	27	N	N	not as bad as reviews make it seem	I was very afraid to read this book because of the horrible reviews that it received. BUT, while it was not her best work, I felt that it did not deserve such a scathing review.<br />Katie, daughter of an owner of a supermarket chain and Ramon, ex-one of the most powerful men on earth...meet as he saves her from a gropping ex. He asks for a date and Katie agrees...only to be surprised by the force of the emotions that this one man can evoke in her, when so many others have failed.<br />As Ramon is ashamed that he is now a failure since his business is filing for bankruptcy (because his father is a jealous and evil man), he lets Katie believe that he is only an ordinary farmer with a cottage in Puerto Rico and not a man who had once owned an island, several mansions and villas, and one of the most successful conglomerates in the world.<br />Katie, who has been married before to a man who she sensed was not himself, is afraid to trust Ramon as she senses that he also is not revealing the whole truth. Because of this, she tries to stall marriage to him, by paying for half of his expenses, making the cottage look like a bachelor pad, and unintentionally demeaning him by asking if he could swim or dance and giving him a $5 bill in compensation for him driving her home.<br />Not until the truth is discovered, does she realize the depth of Ramon's love for her and how much she wants that in her previously empty life.<br />He is not chauvinistic and if anyone had read the book closely enough, it is even explained in the end when Katie asks Ramon if he really thinks that a wife's &quot;place&quot; is at home. And Ramon responded by saying that the only reason he said that in the beginning was because he was trying to make her &quot;settle of rless than she has a right to expect&quot; since he barely had anything to offer and desperately didn't want to lose her. I felt that he had a right to be angry with her for spending money on their cottage because 1) he was already seenas a failure by the villagers for losing his company and now it seems as if he has a sugarmama paying his bills and 2) his entire house had not one drop of her personality to make it her space...meaning that she didn't plan to stay.<br />All in all, my problem was not Ramon's supposed chauvinism, but rather with the palpable hurriedness of the book. Though Matt and Meredith fell in love in a week in Paradise, this time, the length of their acquaintance was stressed a lot more, making it hard to ignore that they had only known each other for less than a week. Also, the ending felt too hurried as all of a sudden, everything was right again. Not enough detail was made to secondary characters, making them seem flat. These reasons made me want to flip through many of the pages so that I could get to the crucial moment when Ramon would reveal who he really is.<br />It's a fast read, but there is no chauvinist pig in Ramon, so if you were deterred by that, don't be. Not as enjoyable as many of her others, but still a decent read.	2003-12-13
US	30994630	R2HI7MQ6TJ2QHS	0671737619	535195561	A Kingdom of Dreams (The Westmoreland Dynasty Saga)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	really 4.5	A Kingdom of Dreams is an extremely touching JM book. However, I would consider Almost Heaven and Something Wonderful superior. Therefore, it only gets 4.5 stars.<br />Jennifer Merrick is a reckless, impulsive, courageous Scottish girl, the daughter of one of the most powerful chieftains in Scotland. The cheiftain who hates the man she is about to marry...<br />The Wolf is feared throughout the land where stories travel of his ruthlessness. Royce's men capture Jennifer and her stepsister while they are strolling along the hill in the back of an abbey where they have been put by their father. To be used as hostages to force a peaceful surrender from Lord Merrick, Jenny and Brenna are forced to stay under constant surveillance of Royce's army.<br />They plot an escape attempt and fail, riling Royce's embarrassment and anger. However, it is also then, at the height of both their anger, that Jenny and Royce realize they are attracted to each other. However, Jenny still tries to get away in order to make her family proud of her. <br />Brenna becomes ill and Jenny begs Royce to release her and he agrees if Jenny returns the favor with her body in his bed. However, this isn't just something physical. Afterward...Royce finds that he cannot keep her as just a mistress. Even after Royce gives her his trust and believes in her word, she escapes just when he is about to propose to her...escaping into the forest with her brother. That really upset me, considering the fact that I knew Royce had trusted her. Moreover, Royce treated Jenny and Brenna better than any prisoner has a right to be treated.<br />Royce, made a laughingstock because of his inability to successfully contain two women and angered by Jenny's abuse of trust (he naturally thinks that everything Jenny told him that night they were together were lies), tells the King that he wouldn't wed her if she were the Queen of Scotland and only upon his head, did he agree to the match. On the other hand, rumors have been swirling unbridled, twisting the truth so that Jenny thinks that Royce has called her the Merrick slut...her reputation ruined throughout two countries.<br />There are many...too many...misunderstandings that I began to become a bit sick of it. Then just as they were falling in love, unexpectedly, Royce does the one thing guaranteed to break Jenny's trust and heart. Don't want to ruin it for you though, so check out the story for the devastating thing that occurred. Because of this, Jenny's waning loyalty to her unloving and cruel father restores itself and she again allows herself to be tricked by him into harming Royce emotionally while he and his clan harms him physically during a tournament, for Royce gave Jenny his word that none of her family members would be hurt.<br />Having finally realized the ruthlessness of her family, Jenny finally sees how much Royce loves her and how much he went through to get her to forgive him...and the ending is familiarly sweet and touching.<br />Out of all the other JM books that I have read, I felt the most for Royce because there were so many moments when he is tender and caring and loving. In Almost Heaven and Something Wonderful, the heroes always had so much pride that it would take them so long to see reason...usually after they've already hurt their love's feelings. For Royce, even after everything she accuses him of and after all she did to humiliate him out of some misplaced loyalty to her clan, he still thinks that he's been blessed with her and that he doesn't deserve her love and loyalty, taking her back even though he almost died at her family's hands. Out of all the heroes, Royce is the most compassionate and loving. =)	2003-11-25
US	30994630	R21ZYZ0HIUZI5U	0671737635	931033724	Something Wonderful (The Sequels series)	Books	5	9	11	N	N	as usual...a great romance	Alexandra is still a child-woman of 17 when she is seen entering the local inn in the arms of Jordan Townsende, the duke of Claymore. Her reputation ruined, her mother demands that the duke provide for her by marrying her. Of course he could refuse, but something in the little girl's countenance triggers a sense of possessiveness in Jordan and he weds her, though he still plans to keep the roguish life he led back in London.<br />Alexandra is head over heels in love with this handsome devil and worships her new husband, thinking he is perfect in every way...until one day, he is torn from her life...and is missing for 3 months. During that time, Alexandra has to face British society where her idealistic notions of her husband are brutally shattered as she learns of his reputation with the ladies and that he intended to keep her at one of his homes while he goes off with mistress after mistress. Heartbroken and jaded, Alexandra decides that Jordan is no longer deserving of her affection and tries harder to fit into London society.<br />Rotting away in a faraway land, Jordan is now a prisoner and the only thing that keeps him alive, is his refreshing young wife who he thinks must be pining away for him at home. She is his driving force and the jaded Jordan believes that after this episode, he'll let her show him her world...one of hope and optimism because this capture has made him grateful of everything he has.<br />But he returns only to discover that his wife is now the most sought-after female in London...and that she's getting married!! After preventing the wedding from happening, Jordan makes a deal with Alexandra. In return for three months with him as true man and wife, if Alexandra still wants to leave him (because she still thinks him a rogue), then he will offer her half a million lbs. to be comfortable. As they begin to spend more time together, Alexandra's heart starts to melt towards him again, as they spend idle afternoons fishing and picnicing...until Jordan receives word from his P.I. that his very wife might be an accomplice in a plot to murder him!<br />This misunderstanding leads to a climax that made me cry for an hour. It took 2 min. to read. Then I went back to read it again. It's the most heartbreaking piece of literature I've ever encountered in a romance and it just tears you apart.<br />Naturally, the hero and heroine end up together. And what a pair they are. I can feel their love, pain, compassion, courage, and anguish through every page, even though I thought the beginning was a bit slow. But everything else was wonderfully written. Big two thumbs up!	2003-11-25
US	30994630	R1XC0YEST2Z391	0553571591	112078493	Mystique (Bantam Books Historical Romance)	Books	5	30	31	N	N	fabulous read	Mystique was my first Amanda Quick book and it has certainly encouraged me to read more. I would give it 4 and a half stars, but I decided to round up.<br />Alice is a strongheaded strongwilled young woman bent on escaping her uncle's guardianship and helping her brother establish a future. Hugh the Relentless provides a means to that, so regardless of his reputation, Alice makes a bargain with him. Hugh wants the green crystal to make his people see that he is the true lord of his lands and Alice can find the crystal for him. In return, he has to make sure Alice gets away from her uncle and her brother can study abroad.<br />This all sounds very nice until Hugh decides that he needs a real betrothal for he has to find someone to oversee the household (he's very picky about food and cleaning) during the winter and to prove to his people that he is ready to settle down. Alice, thinking that it's temporary agrees. But then the unexpected happens...they fall in love.<br />Hugh is an amazing hero. He cherishes Alice deeply and never loses his temper with her. Even when she helps his lifelong nemesis, he doesn't embarrass her in public and declares that her word is his word and that he will always support her.<br />The only complaint that I have about this book is how easily and quickly the green crystal was found. However, the mystery at the end makes up for it...partially.<br />Overall, this book is a joy to read and you'll laugh reading about how she &quot;controls&quot; her husband and &quot;brings him to heel&quot;. Amazing woman. =)	2003-11-17
US	30994630	R1BU925CW9SDT9	0451208145	739044355	Lord Harry (Coulter Historical Romance)	Books	2	12	15	N	N	very tedious story	Lord Harry seemed very interesting in the beginning as it's a great idea for a story.<br />Henrietta dresses up as a man to avenge her brother's death, which she thinks is caused by Jason the Marquess of Oberlon. Henrietta devises various schemes to bring Jason to anger so that he might fight a duel with her. This part took up 2/3 of the book.<br />It would not have been so boring if Jason had an inkling of who she was. Henrietta was described to be beautiful and feminine. Therefore, I couldn't understand why Coulter couldn't have had Jason see the resemblances and figure out Harry's real identity.<br />Throughout the first 2/3 of the book, Jason encounters Harry numerous times, each time ending in anger. He also sees the lovely Henrietta three times, once at a masked ball where she is dazzling as they waltz, and two other times when she had deliberately \\"uglied\\" herself up to a point where he doesn't recognize her at all.<br />Then, as the long awaited duel finally came, Henrietta is hurt and this is when Jason discovers that she is a girl. He brings her to his home and nurses her back to health. When she first wakes up however, she is still full of hatred for him. Then all of a sudden, after Jason explains his side of the story, Henrietta decides that this \\"murderer\\" must be telling the truth and directly proceeds to fall in love with him. And Jason, having met the \\"real\\" Henrietta only once at the masked ball, decides right then and there that he loves her. I know that stories are a suspension of reality, but I couldn't do it here. It just seems so impossible that they would be in each other's company for a week, most of that time was spent with Henrietta sleeping, and once she wakes up and hears Jason's explanation, ALL her hatred goes away and they are in LOVE? It's a bit hard to swallow.<br />Also, the romance was short enough as it was, but it was cut even shorter by unnecessary side stories including one where Harry goes to a whorehouse and saves one of the girls.<br />There's a sense that Coulter just ran out of interest in the book and finished it as fast as she could. Lots of underdeveloped characters and feelings, particularly between the hero and heroine, and lots of unneeded scenes and events. I was disappointed as it was my first from Coulter. A bit reluctant to read another...girls.<br />There's a sense that Coulter just ran out of interest in the book and finished it as fast as she could. Lots of underdeveloped characters and feelings, particularly between the hero and heroine, and lots of unneeded scenes and events. I was disappointed as it was my first from Coulter. A bit reluctant to read another...	2003-11-17
US	30994630	R3941FME7R7TB0	0671742558	7794510	Almost Heaven: A Novel (The Sequels series)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	heartwarming	Almost Heaven is my first Judith McNaught book. Having been a Julie Garwood fan, I had run out of her books, so decided to try Ms. McNaught instead and I can't say I was disappointed. Now I have to get Whitney, My Love and already have Something Wonderful and A Kingdom Of Dreams, which I can't wait to read.<br />Elizabeth Cameron had once been the most sought-after debutante in London history, blessed with indescribable beauty. Needing to make a successful union in order to save her beloved country home from creditors, she has agreed to marry whoever her brother chooses. One night, however, she meets the intriguing and handsome Ian Thorton at a party of more \\"experienced\\" ladies and gentlemen. The innocent deb comes to Ian's defense time and again when other gentlemen called him a cheat and challenged him to duels just because he wasn't a noble like them. This causes Ian and Elizabeth to become closer as he opens his heart to this brave young woman...and they fall in love, with Ian offering marriage. Except everyone finds out due to a trick and now Elizabeth's reputation has been torn to shreds by gossip and Ian has disappeared after finding out that she was already betrothed. There is no longer any chance of marrying well in order to save her beloved Havenhurst. On top of that, her brother has also disappeared after having tried to Ian twice.<br />Two years later, with Elizabeth's uncle as her guardian, she is shamelessly offered to all suitors who had once sought her. Ian Thorton was one of them! Elizabeth hurt and betrayed, no longer wants to marry and tries to dissuade each and every suitor. Ian, finding her in his Scotland cottage, begins to soften toward her once again. He remains remote until Elizabeth is summoned home to marry a disgustingly perverted old man...realizing from his uncle, Duncan, the trials and tribulations that Elizabeth endured the past two years because of their scandal, Ian races to marry her...in order for her uncle to accept his offer for her hand, he must be titled. And so, after two decades of avoiding his grandfather, Ian reunites with the Duke of Stanhope, becoming his new heir.<br />Ian then rushes to London to find Elizabeth and save her from the gossipers who will surely tear her apart if she tries to enter society again. Elizabeth has no other choice but to show herself in society in order to avoid marriage to a lecher...and though she's championed by one of the most powerful women in London society, everyone either laughs at her or ignores her...that is, until the new Marquess of Kensington and his grandfather the Duke of Stanhope step in and make things right. Ian then goes through the traditional courting methods to win Elizabeth's hand in marriage, even though the contract had been signed long before. After the marriage, all is happy as the characters confess their love...until one night, her brother Robert returns...and opens Elizabeth's ears to a horrifying story. She runs away leaving Ian to believe she has taken a lover, and also leaving him on trial for her and her brother's murder since Robert has disappeared for two years. Elizabeth comes back...but will she be able to earn back his love?<br />This book is a treasure. I especially liked the ending because I believe that the ending ties everything together and no matter how well the story is woven, if the ending is lacking, then you will still be disappointed. However, this ending is so tender and sweet and the words spoken by the characters are so full of love, that I couldn't help but smile and wish I was ELizabeth. This book has made me laugh and cry, love and hate (esp. her uncle Julius and her brother Robert)...and I hope that you will enjoy it as much as I have. It's a definite keeper! You will want to read it time and again.	2003-11-16
US	30994630	R3ESCMK2NAKLQY	0515136190	33317848	Once Upon a Midnight (The Once Upon Series)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	magical	I divide this four story series into two parts. The good part...and the bad.<br />Nora Robert's The Witching Hour was enchanting...very well developed. The evil Lorcan has killed Aurora's parents and proclaimed himself king of Twylia. Now...as Aurora's birth and identity is revealed to her, she must follow destiny in order to reclaim her kingdom and heritage...and find her love, the seemingly cowardly Thane, who she spent time with in dreams since they were children. Thane also has this power to dream and they were in love long before they actually met. Now...they must see past the misconceptions each has of the other to rediscover each other. Very charming!<br />Jill Gregory's Mirror, Mirror is also very interesting to read. Fiona, a healer, was sworn to protect the heir to the kingdom of Grithain, who is currently a child and in hiding from those who wish to have the land to themselves once old King Mortimer dies. With a magic mirror that sees into the past, present, and future, she is able to save a brave warrior, who isn't who he seems to be. Once Fiona finds out that Conor is the illegitimate son, who is rumored as wanting to kill the heir, she regrets saving him, until he convinces her that he wants to protect the heir...and they fall in love (unwillingly on Conor's part)...He has to conquer his wrong notion of love. Great story.<br />This is the bad part:<br />Dream Lover started out as a very interesting story. Allison is betrayed by love and Heath has no love. They meet on the plane to Scotland and the chemistry begins. Ally nurses the injured Heath and it turns that they are both going to similar places so Heath offers to drive her there. &quot;Unfortunately&quot;, the car leaves Heath behind while he goes with Ally to discuss business with the owner. However, there are many missing pieces...the author does not explain the concept of midnight, since that is the topic of the book. Also, Ally and Heath's love is developed within a day, with the help of a certain kindred spirit. Finally the story ends abruptly, leaving the reader to wonder when the author would explain all the little quirks throughout the story.<br />The Midnight Country also started out to be very compelling and I had thought that I would enjoy this story the most. Beaumont Foret was a fairytale told to children. A castle surrounded by wolves, but Jenna is determined to prove them wrong...her ancestors were all born in Beaumont Foret. She finds the mystical village, and finds out a genetic secret that Philippe, the owner, has been keeping from her. Philippe also finds out Jenna's genetic secret. I didn't enjoy this story because though I thought that they would find a cure to their genetic flaw and become humans permanently, they decide to forgo that and even make love while they are not humans...a bit disturbing. But after a while, I can accept it a bit more. Still was a bit disappointed.<br />Overall, nice read because of the first two stories.	2003-11-09
US	30994630	R3G82KT7H0PE1E	055358183X	623737680	The Bride and the Beast (Once Upon a Time)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	lovely introduction to medeiros	This was my first Teresa Medeiros and it was a pleasant surprise!<br />Gwendolyn is a chubbier than average girl who is made fun of by the entire village...personally, I think she is just a curvy beauty. Ever since a young child, she has been in love with the laird-to-be Bernard MacCullough. But alas, she will never see him again because he was killed in a surprise attack by the English, which destroyed his whole family, while the village not only didn't come to their laird's rescue, but there was also a traitor within. A traitor who told the English that Bernard's father was hiding a refugee prince and received a thousand pounds as a reward.<br />Or is he really dead? Recently, a dragon has inhabited the old castle of the MacCullough, demanding food and drink...and a thousand pounds. Unable to come up with so large an amount, the villagers offer Gwendolyn as a virgin sacrifice. As she becomes a guest of the dragon, who keeps his face hidden in shadows and his name a secret, a tension and chemistry develops...overcoming appearance and name. They fall in love with each other, until the dragon's identity is revealed...<br />This is the part I enjoyed because normally, when the identity is revealed, the story is quickly over. However, TM incorporates many more twists and turns, amazing me. Every time I expect the story to have reached a point where the end is near, another turn of events parts the main characters yet again. Very nice...very compelling. I recommend it!	2003-11-09
US	30994630	R94V05UJ34VRH	0515122416	542607629	Once upon a Castle	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Enchanting	I admit, I like this better than Once Upon a Rose. These four stories are very well-written.<br />Roberts' Spellbound was...nice. But I would have to say that it was the worst story in the lot. Calin travels to Ireland to meet Bryna, who he'd been seeing in his dreams since he was born. They were lovers, or they were the reincarnations of lovers, a thousand years ago and he must go back in order to save her and their love. I'm just a bit surprised that they would find that they love each other in a day.<br />Gregory's Castle Doom was nice. Arianne's brother was kidnapped and his castle sieged. It turn's out that their distant cousin Julian is planning to spread his rule. Arianne knows that the only one who could help her is the exiled Nicholas, Julian's older half-brother. I liked the ending because everything is solved. And Nicholas gains back the kingdom he was born to rule. I'd say this was my favorite of the four.<br />Langan's Falcon's Lair...was ok, but a bit weird in the end. It started out fair enough and the rest of the story was well-written. Felicity travels to England in order to help his father's old friend, who is under a &quot;curse&quot;. When she arrived, she met a spirit...that of the first lord of Falcon's Lair. They fall in love...even though they know there is no hope. He dies (I don't know how because he's already dead) while protecting her. And she finds &quot;him&quot; again in the current lord's oldest son, Chandler. Which is why I'm iffy about this story...I personally think she's transferring her love from Gareth (the first lord and spirit) to Chandler...and is that real love? But then none of the stories are based in reality, so I accept it.<br />Willman's Dragonspell is somewhat like Castle Doom in that both involve princesses trying to gain back their castle and kingdom. Except in this one, Tressalara teams up with a rebel. She is headstrong and feels that she doesn't need a man to rule her kingdom wisely. One of her late father's advisors overthrows and rules...killing her father himself. Tressalara disguises as a boy to find Cador, the rebel. Together with the power of the Andun Stone, they try to overthrow the evil advisor and his wizard.	2003-08-10
US	30994630	R1TENZNVQD9VEM	0671670069	631599251	Guardian Angel	Books	4	0	0	N	N	funny and entertaining	Garwood has done it again.<br />Jade is a notorious thief and liar and she gets the love of a lifetime in Caine, the man who she is lying to.<br />Caine is trying to avenge his brother who was killed by the pirate Pagan until Jade comes and he feels the need to protect her.<br />What Caine doesn't know is that Jade is really trying to protect him. And while they keep going at crosspurposes, they, of course, fall in love, with some extremely hilarious conversations on the side that had me doubling over with laughter.<br />I won't give too much else away, so you'll have to see what happens yourself.	2003-06-12
US	30994630	R1O6IU4ZGB5HCU	067173783X	366170390	The Lion's Lady	Books	5	7	7	N	N	very funny...another Garwood great	The story is about a girl named Christina, who was raised by the Native Americans. Her mother died when she was 2 while trying to escape from her evil husband. She kept a diary and Christina would read it when she got older.<br />Lyon is a jaded man whose dead wife had cheated on him with his brother. He is enchanted with Christina and her strange way of thinking.<br />They meet when Christina is forced to go to England with her aunt. All along Christina avoids telling him about her past for fear of putting Lyon in danger because her grandfather left her a whole bunch of money and both her real father and her aunt wants it.<br />I thought that the way she started most chapters with an entry from Christina's mother's diary was very nice. There were lots of witty conversations between Christina and Lyon, although I did find it a little annoying that Christina waited so long to tell Lyon about her past. And I love the ending! I think it was her best ending out of all the books I've read.	2003-06-08
US	30994630	R2GBZAX8QSU14	0515131660	361521223	Once Upon a Rose (The Once Upon Series)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	ehh...ok	It started out well enough with \\"Winter Rose\\", but, as many other reviewers have said, it had a lot of eery parallels to \\"Beauty and the Beast\\". Also, towards the end, I was confused at how the turnaround came so fast, without reason. How did summer all of a sudden come to the island?<br />\\"The Sword and the Rose\\" I liked, except for the fact that it ended way too fast. I thought that they would have spent more time finding the Rose staff or whatever it's called. And the climax was very short and the story cut off right after. It made me think that they thought they were in love because they went through an ordeal. I wasn't at all sure of their feelings for each other.<br />\\"The Roses of Glenross\\"...wow...that majorly sucked. I really hate to be this blunt, but the storyline could have been much better. First of all, I don't believe that they would have everlasting love from seeing each other for one second on the battlefield. And making love before they're married in a convent?! That was misplaced in my opinion. It just seemed that the concept of roses was too forcefully tied into the main storyline.<br />\\"The Fairest Rose\\" is ok. However, I didn't like the fact that Deirdre died and that Rosaleen didn't get to live like a princess. At least not in the story as written. The bit about them going for the phoenix was too mythological. It weirded me out. I don't get why the King doesn't feel more sad for finding out that the Queen killed his love. That was disappointing. He just stated that Rosaleen was his daughter and that Deirdre's death had something to do with the Queen, but dammit!! There was no punishment, no anger, no expressing his lasting love for Deirdre. And I still wasn't sure if the guy really loved Rosaleen because he seemed VERY infatuated with the princess. But all of a sudden, he finds Rosaleen irresistable. Who knows if he'll decide that that's an infatuation too?<br />Confusing, a bit flat, but overall enjoyable.	2003-05-29
US	30994630	R3F1QUM2PF3VE3	0671737848	920359075	Rebellious Desire	Books	4	2	3	N	N	not her best...	The storyline of this book is only so-so and in no way measures up to her other books, such as Ransom, The Bride, and The Secret. Everything was flat out in the open so much so that there was no real desire to keep reading to find out what would happen, because you already know.<br />I had really thought there would be an actual killer that wanted Caroline's life, since that's what the prologue suggests. However, I was sorely disappointed. Ever since the middle of the book, it's been hinted who the evil-doer is. And doesn't that just take the fun out of everything? I think so. I gave this 4 stars instead of 3 because there were a few portions where the conversation between Caroline, Bradford, and Milford was quite entertaining and made me laugh.<br />Nevertheless, although it passed the time, I found my eyes closing more than once.	2003-05-23
US	30994630	R19FD8HK1I6X19	0671702505	721186357	The Gift	Books	5	3	4	N	N	ha! get ready to laugh	This is one of her most entertaining books.<br />Sarah and her mischievous ways will make you laugh until you cry. The things she does to Nathan's ship...haha.<br />They were wed when they were very young, Nathan 14, Sarah 4. As the years pass by, Sarah still longs for her husband to come fetch her. Nathan, on the other hand, intially comes for her because he wants the money that the marriage promises, should Sarah provide an heir. He brings her and her aunt on his ship set sail for her aunt's island.<br />And of course, there's the happily ever after. Go read it. I'll say no more because I don't want to give everything away. Get it now!	2003-05-23
US	30994630	RNCRJE29IETT3	0671744216	986944205	The Secret	Books	5	3	3	N	N	she did it again!	Wonderful story...and if you haven't already read it, go ahead and pick up Ransom also.<br />Judith is a young, innocent woman who's been mistreated as most of the heroines in J.G.'s novels are, but each story has its own appeal. Her childhood friend is pregnant (this prologue isn't bad at all) and Iain Maitland is sent to pick her up. A Scottish laird, he detests the English, but he's totally captivated when he looks into her eyes. And so are two of his other warriers, Brodick and Ramsey. Their stories are told in Ransom.<br />Judith captivates the Scots. Even the elders, who are set in their ways, warmed to her. I felt that the story lacked a big climax, even though Judith meeting her father was definitely important. However, I was hoping for a big shabang! Perhaps a gathering of the Macleans and the Maitlands.<br />DEFINITE READ!	2003-05-18
US	30994630	R131UW6M5IMOBG	0671003364	792256877	Ransom	Books	5	1	1	N	N	great...wish it were longer!	Julie has done it again! The sequel to The Secret was amazingly done, if it did end a bit quickly. I guess she got tired towards the end and just decided to cut it.<br />The beginning was so heartwrenching I couldn't help but cry. Two helpless little girls. Such loyal soldiers. A kind and loving father. It was so devastating. They were torn from their home and Gillian had to witness the murder of her father.<br />Forward to the future and she is saving little Alec Maitland from death. Alec's talkativeness is very heartwarming and you can't help but smile. Once she runs away with him toward Scotland, she enlists the help of Brodick, Laird Buchanan, to bring the boy back to his parents. Along the way, they fall in love.<br />All through the story, Gillian tries to find her estranged sister, who is said to live in the Highlands, with the Macphersons. Ramsey Sinclair is also in this story. He falls in love with the beautiful Bridgid. Since his land borders the Macphersons, Gillian travels there with Brodick after parting with the Maitlands. On their way there, Brodick tricks her into marrying him.<br />Gillian and Bridgid become fast friends, and since Bridgid had blond hair, I thought that she might have been Gillian's long-lost sister. But that was an anticlimax. Gillian's sister didn't want her. It was very disappointing that Gillian couldn't have had a perfect ending.<br />Some of the shortcomings of this book were the fact that Gillian kept on retelling the story of how she was abused by Baron Alford, the same one who captured Alec. There were so many instances where she repeated part of the story or it was written that she repeated the story. Garwood even made Alec repeat what happened to them over and over again. I got so sick of that. Another thing was how they never returned to Buchanan land. I really wanted a description of her home and how the people accepted her. In Ramsey and Bridgid's love story, the details were few and far between. I had no chance to seetheir relationship develop and throughout the book, it was frustrating how they never came together as a couple until the very end, and even then, all I got was them talking for about two pages, and then it ended with him proposing. Garwood didn't even show me her response. It just skipped right over to Brodick and Gillian, with Brodick narrating that Bridgid and Ramsey went home to get married. I felt that the author could have further developed Ramsey's story. <br />But don't despair. Despite the drawbacks, the good still outweigh the back, and I would definitely read this book again. It has a lot of appeal and emotion. Well-written, if a bit abrupt.	2003-05-18
US	30994630	R9AC9N3YWBMX5	0671737791	378094364	The Bride	Books	5	2	2	N	N	WOW...	This was my first Garwood book and it gave me such a wonderful impression of her writing! If you want something refreshingly, buy or borrow this book because you'll get hooked on her!! It's been a week or so since I read it and in that time, I've read four more of her books. This one's still my fave though! And I'm reading it again just as soon as the weekend comes.<br />Alec Kincaid is magneficently portrayed. He wants the girl and he's going to get her. You can see them falling in love. From first sight, he's already so protective of her. So sweet. And the reactions he has to the &quot;changes&quot; she made to his fortress are hilarious!<br />Jamie, a man's name, is about the most spunky, beautiful girl on earth, or so you would think after reading this. She is quick to &quot;defend&quot; her husband.<br />J.G. has everything. Romance, comedy, and suspense. That's why it's so interesting! I love how the suspense is there, but in the background, so the love story still has centerstage without being boring and drawn-out. GREAT READ!!	2003-05-18
US	30994630	R1V32WBXKRYM3D	0671870963	378094364	Prince Charming	Books	3	10	15	N	N	could have been better...	Honestly, I was thinking of putting this book down numerous times, but I just didn't want to do homework.<br />The beginning was confusing. I had no idea what was going on and how they came to know each other because from the descriptions given when they saw each other, I was given the impression that they had never met before and it was instant attraction. Apparently, they were already married.<br />For J.G., it wasn't her best. There were just too many things going on at the same time. What with her almost getting raped, the abduction of the twins, Victoria and Hunter's romance, Lucas' hatred for Caulder, Malcolm, William, Callahagn. It was all very distracting. The final scene was very anticlimatic because after all the suspense of wondering what her BAD, BAD uncle would do, it was over in a second. And the issue between Lucas and Caulder never did get resolved. It was just too messy. Unlike with her more organized books, such as The Bride and The Wedding, the extra events only seemed to clutter up the story instead of enhancing it.	2003-05-13
US	30994630	R3SVPE44J2YMUP	0671871005	65713554	The Wedding	Books	5	3	4	N	N	bride 2!	Great storyline. I didn't particularly care for the prologue though. I thought the part when she was little was [bad] because it had no relevance anywhere else in the story. It read as if she was forced to put it in there. And I did NOT like the going on and on about the piglet she was trying to catch.<br />The rest of the story though?? A TREASURE. It was a great sequel to The Bride. But then, I didn't like the part where she kept on trying to suck up to the stepmom. It was a bit excessive and I was surprised that she never spoke up, since J.G.'s heroines are usually very outspoken. And I thought Connor should have taken care of his stepbrother. I really wanted [him] suffer...Need I say more? Go read it now. And I really hope J.G. gives us a book about Quinlan and Faith!	2003-05-13
US	30994630	RBZXBQYLIZ4QB	0671744208	407222975	Castles	Books	4	2	3	N	N	not for cowards	Yeah, ok, so I expected a romance, but because it's from J.G., I also expected a bit of suspense, mystery. HOWEVER, since I'm such a little fraidy-cat, I am still a little afraid that Morgan's going to come get me. His death was too graphic. And I read it in the dead of night so that I could finish it in one day.<br />But overall though, I thought it was a pretty nice book. I didn't give it 5 stars because the threat of the general could have been explained a bit more, expanded upon. Also, there were a lot of minute details that were never resolved nor was an explanation supplied.<br />The part where Colin finds something wrong in everyone one of the guys on her list and then how he traps her into marriage...MUCHO HILAIROUS! My brother thought I was crazy, I couldn't stop laughing.<br />All in all, a good book to read and I would read it again, but I'd skip over a quite a bit of pages.	2003-05-13
US	30994630	R2PXWPZ14P329	0671870114	215596206	Saving Grace	Books	5	2	4	N	N	My fave...	Out of the 12 Garwood books that I read, I definitely have to say that this one is my all-time favorite. And it's for all readers. No matter if you're a feminist and you submissive or if you're a romance freak. It empowers women.<br />Johanna is a wife of a recently-proclaimed-dead English baron. Having been abused by Raulf for the three years that they were married, Johanna is wary of all prospects of a new marriage. However, her foster brother Nicholas insists that she remarry for if she doesn't King John will force her to wed a hated baron. The twist is that Johanna knows something the King doesn't want known.<br />Gabriel is a Highland laird, who hates the English. But he agrees to marry Johanna so that he can get the Scottish land that she owns after her husband's death.<br />Yea, yea, so they fall for each other. But surprise, surprise, her husband isn't really dead.<br />But what really makes this book so unforgettable is the conversation between the characters. And boy, is this book full of it. I laughed the most in this book, the things they say are so hilarious, people on the bus looked at me as if I was crazy. This definitely has the best humor of all her books.<br />Everyone should really really REALLY read it!	2003-05-13
US	30994630	R1YX1746M5PTDO	0671737821	177598856	Honor's Splendour	Books	4	3	4	N	N	great book, wish it was longer	This is a great book, although I felt the beginning was kinda hard to get into. But like all J.G. books, you're soon pulled in. I thought that maybe there could have been less of an impact from Louddon. The ending was too abrupt. I really enjoyed the part where her fever made her hallucinate! HAHA! But I thought they should have told her what she had done. I hate characters being left in the dark!! Maybe the author could have elaborated a bit on Rhinehold since Madelyne did find out that he was her father. The Henry and William bit was unnecessary, in my opinion. And I felt so sorry for the younger brother because he wanted her too, but Duncan took her for his own!<br />I think there could have been minor improvements that could have made this book better, but overall, it's still a joy to read!	2003-05-13
