US	31055952	RE8GDW3T9O2EP	0743228685	21626273	Boss Lady: A Novel	Books	5	1	7	N	N	PREDICTION:  FROM "FLYY GIRL TO BOSS LADY"  IS GOING TO THE BIG SCREEN!	I hate to say this, but as a true-to-life psychoanalytic therapist I must say that one reviewer is a man posed a woman on here who is obviously a fresh out the batch author competitor. It is so obvious and I can't guess which author. I am getting use to these kind of posts. Secondly, there may be some old heads here who have grown out of Omar Tyree's  writing style which draws the 15 year olds to 21 year olds. Sometimes readers reach a cap limit on what kind of music and books they can still appreciate. However, every young girl aspires to be that Boss Lady. I address them at workshops all the time. Thirdly, some reviews seem like personal attacks or character assasinations from folks who have met Omar Tyree. Nevertheless, here is my honest review and minus my own biases, judgement and personal preferences.READERS SAY BOSS LADY BY OMAR TYREE HAS WHAT IT TAKES FOR THE BIG SCREEN BASED ON MY BOOK WAVE DROPPIN' POLLS.	2005-07-28
US	31055952	R2HR193WF44JCA	0974226947	490390440	Man Killer	Books	5	0	5	N	N	You know you liked the book !	I personally know Denise, and she is a fabulous writer. Her editor did a terrific job and I have that copy to prove it, but somehow the author trusted in a proofreader with evil intentions and botched her work all the way through. The completed book went to the printer and unfortunately, most authors just can't pull off print runs like that. I am an English Major. You should stick to forensics, instead of judging the content of the book and not things that can be corrected in second print runs, but unfortunately, when predator editors like you who missed their calling leave reviews like this, they stick for ever with talented authors. This book will undergo another revision someday. It served its purpose and the author is on to a new book. Denise is one author whose talent speaks for itself. Folks think she can be the next top author.As a reviewer, I use to focus on editing flaws in a book like a fool, but it just is not that important when it comes to work people want to read and enjoy. These kind of reviews are substantial for acquisition editors or publishing houses and of course that is what they are paid for, to revise and edit a book. If readers can't read a book due to errata, they can always not buy it, but is it the buyer who has the power to purchase or return books the person we are trying to support or the author promoting literacy and literature? I know whose side I am on. In my opinion, either a reader likes a book or does not like it at all. If I like a book, it's getting 5 stars, and if I don't, a review is not issued at all. There is no in between. Amazon does not even have a  rubric rating to go on and that is just how silly we all are for using a star system. The only rating should be 5 stars or no stars. Don't be a hypocrite to yourself reviewer a few spaces down from mine. And-- I will be looking for your book soon and there had better be absence of typos least you will have betrayed yourself. You know you liked the book a lot!	2005-07-28
US	31055952	R3SLOBWTIG6XZD	0670031445	336077606	The Interruption of Everything	Books	5	3	6	N	N	BUY THIS BOOK!	Go get 'em Marilyn. I love how she just up and took off to find herself. She is like many women who realize that their lives are stagnated with present conditions, and if only more women would be brave enough to take off and conquer their dreams. Terry still has what it takes to create those stories fit for the movie screen. I love the cover, the whole concept of obstacles in her way from family to friends. Her husband is so typical.  The Interruption of Everything is everything readers will want to read this summer. I enjoyed it. Some parts were a little slow, but Terry's style of multi-layered themes makes the book a page turner. I don't know why I was laughing all through the book, but there are some serious situations that at least do not overwhelm  the reader to the point that one will have to put the book down and continue on another day. I read the book straight through and would recommend it for every kind of reader. I think Waiting to Exhale is still my favorite read from Terry, but her maturity in her writing is appreciated. Also, I think that her mother-in-law should be played by Ruby Dee, and Leon by, oh well, Leon, the actor in real life when this book is converted into a movie.	2005-07-28
US	31055952	RDK2XUPLWAIQY	141200473X	213689645	Secret Dramas	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A YOUnity Reviewers Book Club 5 Star Review	Secret Dramas by Angela Wallace is one of the most intense novels of the year!  Meet high drama rolling girlfriends like Alexis Stewart, Jaylin Saunders, Adrienne Chambers and Sheri Thomas who are flawlessly described with masterful execution by this extremely talented and gifted writer.Their characters are intense, bold, daring, off the edge, large and in charge. The ladies are all holding down big time positions, but Ms. Angela  Wallace has added a beguiling and life threatening twist to  each one's lives that become dangerously entangled with secrets and lies that hide drugs, prostitution, mob affiliation and perhaps, even murder.Alexis is the television producer of a popular daytime soap opera.     She has major issues with Stephan, an ex-lover who thinks he can take advantage of her and block her from succeeding. Jaylin Saunders is a publisher and unfortunately is tangled in a mess with an unsavory business partner.Adrienne is an office manager, but her affiliations with the mob may lead her to self destruction.     Sheri has a high profile job as an investment manager, but her secret habit of abusing drugs may get the best of her. The story keeps boiling to a dramatic ending filled with plenty of  action and riveting dialogue that may be the first novel to place women in control of their destiny  and all for the love of money. However, are they willing to risk it all to have it all? Secret Drama is a fast turning novel and biggest surprise of the year that will claim the author's reign to fame as the \\"Goddess of Upscale Chic-Lit Drama.\\" The novel is a winner, and ready made for the movie screen.     There is no doubt that the fast paced drama will land itself into the hands of a big time producer. A new drama queen is born.  The author's passion for writing is evident in this masterful and seasoned work from beginning to  end and as if she has been writing her whole life.    Reviewed by Heather Covington/(...)	2005-07-28
US	31055952	R2AJGDEGGGXOEB	0345477219	67682831	G-Spot: An Urban Erotic Tale	Books	5	2	4	N	N	A YOUnity Book Club: This one is for keeps!	I finally got a chance to read G-Spot and it should be at the number one spot. Loved this work!	2005-07-17
US	31055952	R3G2R4EZ9X29WL	159309020X	261455969	Whispers From a Troubled Heart	Books	5	1	1	N	N	SPLENDID WORK!	****5 Stars! The DLNA! A YOUnity Reviewers Book Club  <br />Whispers From a Troubled Heart by Rique Johnson is an explosive serial murder mystery set in the town of Virginia City, a place the author knows well as a Virginian. The main character, Detective Jason Jerrard, has just come face- to- face with a past flame named Julie who unexpectedly reappears to claim Jason as her lover at all costs and even if it means turning a gun on his new love, Sasha, and perhaps himself.  <br /> <br />What happens next is devastating enough to turn Jason's life upside down, but he hasn't time to breathe or morn the circumstances of an ill-fated love affair gone deadly haywire. Virginia City men are now showing up dead one- by-one all around town. The murders catch the attention of Mayor Blake who insists on hiring Jason as a private investigator to solve one of the most bizarre series of incidences to face men in the town. The men are brutally beaten, and authorities are bewildered by a chain of events that will entrance readers from chapter to chapter. The rich dialogue, scenic imagery, twisted plot, and masterful story line make Mr. Johnson a veteran in the genre of mystery.  <br /> <br />Suddenly, two woman by the name of Crystin and Monique come into Jason's life. One reminds him of his murderous and deceased ex-flame and the other a possible replacement of a woman in his life who was relentlessly killed. Between these two women and heated moments of intense romance, he needs to find out who is beating up and killing the Virginia City men. <br /> <br />Can a woman perform these murders? There is an element of revenge scathing and hinting at an anticipated ending. Mr. Johnson delivers without disappointment. Readers will become engaged in this modern day thriller mystery that questions if Detective Jason Jerrad is sleeping with the enemy, and will he find out before it's too late? Explosive, vivid, concise and well written are just a few words to immaculately describe, Johnson's summer literary blockbuster, Whispers From a Troubled Heart. \\"A new page-turning mystery writer with an intelligent writing style is born.\\"	2005-07-17
US	31055952	R1LL6PJEHY4I01	0972751998	741768741	How to Be an Entrepreneur and Keep Your Sanity: The African-American Guide to Owning, Building and Maintaining Successfully Your Own Small Business	Books	5	3	3	N	N	AN OUTSTANDING WEALTH OF INFORMATION FOR ENTREPRENEURS!	How to Be an Entrepreneur and Keep Your Sanity is a wonderful, informational tool of success for power speakers, motivational seminars and organizations with ideal goals in mind for helping the entrepreneur to excel beyond one's proximal business goals and truly succeed. It is also a power handbook that prepares entrepreneurs to take realistic steps before starting a business, analyze one's personal strengths with helpful self-check lists,  make sound investments upon researching all possibilities for assistance and support, create a sound power plan for advertising and marketing, and it provides valuable contacts, investors and resources.  Paula has devised a well constructed manual for today's entrepreneur who wants to grow and prosper. I highly recommend this title and will make reference to it in my own power seminars. I only take along less than a dozen books, and How to Be an Entrepreneur and Keep Your Sanity has made the list. There is an incredible and OUTSTANDING wealth of information in one book by Paula McCoy Pinderhughes.	2004-11-25
US	31055952	RFV7M2CFXZF1G	0385511361	315387370	The Blackbird Papers: A Novel	Books	5	3	4	N	N	One of the Most Intriguing Works To Date!	There is something about The Blackbird Papers by Ian Smith that I found methodically fascinating and refreshing and different from today's trends in literature. I was captivated from beginning to end and hope this one makes it to the big screen. I love mysteries, and the motive for bizarre bird killings and a surprise murder from the beginning were justified. The Blackbird Papers is one of those must read books.	2004-11-25
US	31055952	R24YDQNZNSPP2J	096722490X	678006027	True to the Game: A Teri Woods Fable	Books	5	0	0	N	N	True to the Game is a masterpiece!	Teri Woods is doing her thing. True to the Game is one for keeps!	2004-11-07
US	31055952	RQELIUF1O6FFZ	0974406619	196675144	Anonymity: A Tale of Suspense, Seduction & Revenge	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A STAR IS BORN!	Anonymity by Margie Gosa Shivers <br /> <br /> <br /> <br />From the moment I read Anonymity by Marge Gosa Shivers, I breathed a sigh of relief. My eyes were immediately taken on a roller coaster ride from start to finish as Cara Fleming is hastily chased by her husband like in a scene from the movie hit, Sleeping With The Enemy. Anonymity leaves the reader with a palpitating heart and anticipation for the worse builds to a climax.  <br /> <br />Cara has just found out that her handsome husband, Mario, has received an anonymous message for some peculiar and deceitful reason accusing her of the unthinkable. Yes, an anonymous caller has revealed over a phone conservation that Cara, the perfect wife, is cheating on her husband. Who would do such a thing, is it true, and what is the anonymous callers' motive are questions that ponder the reader during this fast paced drama that is another work that The Disilgold Network predicts will reach the screen and we can't wait.  <br /> <br />Readers want to be able to chase through the most engaging plot ever to hit the literary market, but will find the need to slow down to not miss one exciting detail from this masterful storyteller's work. Anonymity will leave you breathless. If you're in a relationship, you'll question if your lover would attempt to kill you if he ever found out that you were cheating.  <br /> <br />The very scene happened right here in The Bronx as a man chopped his wife into pieces with a sword for expressing her desire to leave him for another man. What is so intriguing is that Cara must fight to the finish to prove her innocence in a tale that becomes more dangerously and intricately interwoven in a puzzle that only Cara and the lucky reader of this book can find the answers to. Anonymity is a perfect title for this 5 Star work. Only you can help Cara before it is too late so it seems. She actually thinks like the reader and the reader will become Cara, anticipating her next move to save herself. You'rein for a mesmerizing modern day thrill ride from Ms. Marge Gosa whose work will make your emotions literally \\"Shiver.\\" Why she's no other than, Marge Gosa Shivers, a modern day suspense novelist on the Disilgold Hit List.  <br /> <br />Dive into a Marge Gosa Shivers book today. A star is born.  <br />	2004-10-31
US	31055952	R1ZA1CMPARGJ74	0452283329	197881398	After Hours: A Collection of Erotic Writing by Black Men	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Erotica with a Twist: Originality	After Hours: A Collection of Erotic Writing by Black Men By Edited by Robert Fleming is a clever book of erotica that is more than an after hour depiction of hard core lust and passion, but a cleverly well put together episode of short stories that challenge the reader to think, stop and read on as Black men tell the tales of love and romance in ways that have never been written before. It's like looking into the minds of how real black men think about love, sex and romance. The Black male psyche is finally exposed. Step inside and take a look. Over 19 Black men leave nothing to the imagination with this anthology of erotic tales and fine quality writing.\\" <br />	2004-10-31
US	31055952	R1FL251MDBOBHV	046506891X	793130887	Another Day At The Front	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Another Day at The Front by Ishmael Reed	He graces BIBR Magazine with a solemn, and angelic look, but is literally at the forefront of exposing race wars, truth, contradictions, fallacies, and injustices that leave little room to ponder or question, and all while running a publishing press. <br /> <br />This is ironically, one sided propaganda at its best you'd think, and after reading the book, the reader will not question the latest domain on bookshelves filled with rich facts and research. It is a boring read for the unchallenged , non intellectual reader, but soulfully gratifying and innocuous for the prolific reader thirsty for knowledge like only Ishmael can deliver. I thirst for Ishmael's work. He is a martyr. You can count on the fact, that the non challenged reader will be forced to read it as a student in any university studying Black History or urban studies. This is the one! Poet's & Writers issues him an award in 2003. How much greater is great? <br /> <br />Fragments of a picture of division between races within the Black race are evident here. This is the biggest issue since \\"Black on Black\\" crime. The questions formulated ask,\\" Are there Black racists within the community? Is your black neighbor your true neighbor during a crisis? Was W.E.B. DuBois a Nazi supporter in being blinded with overwhelming kindness from Germans upon his visitation to Germany, and which caused him to wonder if America was hiding the truth of race relations back then? Is this still the same question of modern day race relations that may cause war? Are Hispanic Blacks subdivided? Do Black Woman authors male bash? (Guilty: Read PerSOULnalities: Poems For Every Kind Of Man). Do some racist radio hosts get a slap on the wrist while Blacks accused of anti_Semitism are literally castrated? Are The Turner Diaries fueling hate? I began to wonder about many of these issues, my own place in society, and having ounces of blood from white, black and Indian culture. Who's side am I on having loved every dimension of my intricatemixed family, but having held on to my Cherokee Indian dominant traits of my ancestors, red like Georgian clay, while relatives, creamy white like butter. I am ordinarily a calm person who can dismiss any reaction of indifference toward my sensitive soul as sheer ignorance on behalf of the offender, but have never respected a disrespectful person by fueling my anger toward a comment, or gesture racially inclined to the point of reaction. I am in awe of this man's work, and believe that his formula for writing it is a masterful one. No one's book has spurred these kind of emotions and confessions. Thank you Mr. Reed.  <br /> <br />  <br /> <br />	2004-10-31
US	31055952	RI2FE674P2MN5	0972571302	465485713	The Birth of a Criminal	Books	5	0	5	N	N	AUTHENTIC,  & REFLECTS A TRUE IMPRISONED SOUL!	\\"Asante Kahari delivers a powerful autobiographical reincarnation of his life as a true gangster of the streets in Harlem, with a crime ridden past that is thankfully all behind him. What is amazing is his determination to turn his life around as a writer. The book reads like an actual memoir from a true gangster and thus editing is an issue, the book is authentically synonymous with Asante's beginning steps as writer who sought to write a novel to change his life. This book is a gut wrenching depiction of a hard core life, and even readers are left with hope for Asante to stay on track. One of the most captivating memoirs to date! I had to ignore the grammar problems. I watched this well groomed gentleman sell books to hundreds of Harlemnites at an event I invited him to. He followed all of my directions. He stood out in the middle on  <br />the street as I requested despite cars veering left and right. anyone would stop for that bright yellow shirt he had on.  People in trucks and cars did finally stop to get the man's books. Some hoods stole a few with swift talking distractions. He was confident he'd sell all of his books, and I could tell he would make it regardless of what obstacles will stand in his way and do not realize that the man is an authentic author. No one can take this away from Mr. Kahari. He will write and sell more books, I'm sure. He has the heart and determination. I have never heard from him since.   There are things he revealed. I am not sure if I am the only person who knows these things, so I will wait until the media discovers the genius of this author. Then there is this powerful manuscript he wrote. I think this author will be a millionaire very soon and is sorry for his past escapades, but to show emotions would be a sign of weakness. Urban authors never show weaknesses.\\"  <br />	2004-10-31
US	31055952	R1NZWAKVTAEBJN	0974783226	406134789	Be My Sorority Sister: Under Pressure	Books	5	1	3	N	N	5 STAR YOUNITY GUILD REVIEW!	Dorrie Williams-Wheeler's \\" Be My Sorority Sister Under Pressure,\\" boldly takes on the story of Eva Perkins, who goes through great length to become a sorority sister while pledging on line for the fictitious Beta Gamma Psi sorority on a journey that results with one of the most powerful and gripping novels to date that successfully infiltrates how peer pressure to belong and gain acceptance among a Greek Organization dangerously lures college students to risk their lives and even break the law to become a member. Eva's life spins out of control as a very unfortunate incident lands Eva in front of authorities facing questions about the death of another pledging member. The question of sisterhood and loyalty unfolds as all members and those on line get caught under fire to reveal the truth. Readers will be surprised by the outcome, and left pondering if whether or not one would risk everything to indeed become a member of a Greek Organization. The book flows with intriguing characters like Ursula, Carmen, Tazmyn, Connie, Janette, Ashley, and Cassidy who are unforgettable. Dorrie Williams- Wheeler''s self designed book cover leads to the mystique as it is clear and evident that one of the arms of the character on the cover is disfigured. There are many disturbing revelations in Be My Sorority Sister Under Pressure, and by no means is Dorrie lightly unveiling or mocking the truths of hazing crimes hidden under the surface of bogus Greek Organizations who defy the true meaning of those committed to helping communities, promoting social change and that can never be tainted by the actions of a few hazing crimes. Thanks to responsible authors like Dorrie bringing these issues are at the forefront and perhaps those entering college should read a book like Be My Sorority Sister Under Pressure to understand that hazing is a crime, and no amount of pressure is worth risking one's life and disgracing the foundation that Greek organizations have been built on. I highly recommendthis book for its aesthetic value, responsibility and overall high interest and well written format that makes Dorrie a favorite among many readers. Sparkle Doll Productions is on the rise. Look out for this author.	2004-10-31
US	31055952	R2Y4UABRPBJT1Y	0972751955	116908912	Your Body's Calling Me:  The Life and Times of "Robert" R. Kelly - Music, Love, Sex and Money (An Unauthorized Biography)	Books	5	1	3	N	N	An Incredible book that explores everything about R. Kelly!	Knock, knock! Walk right in to the life and times, and under the cover scenes of R. Kelly without retakes, censorship or cover ups. R. Kelly is exposed in this bare-it-all unauthorized documentary by Jake Brown that is so explicit, raw and accurate, not even R. Kelly has stepped up to his own home plate to challenge the issues he's been battling from music, love, sex and money. It seems as if the song balladeer crooner/ hip hop R& B sensation has a musical overtone on the Black community with hits like \\" I Wish\\", \\" I Believe I Can Fly,\\" \\"The World's Greatest\\" from the Muhammad Ali Soundtrack and\\" You Saved Me,\\"that have washed away his crimes of passion and won over the Black African community and even mainstream worldwide media, but not so fast...there are unbelievable up front and close pictures that depict four sides of the singer from explicit and controversial to scandalous and possibly the most revered R& B singers of the millennium. Take your pick. Finally, the real story is revealed to put the rumors to rest. Your Body's Calling Me: the Life and Times of Robert R. Kelly by Jake Brown is better than your front news headlines and a must read. Don''t wait for the movie, read the book. <br />	2004-09-12
US	31055952	R193NKS0JB8L0X	1574780204	13747680	What Next: A Memoir Toward World Peace	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A 5 Star Review that is finally listed from Disilgold Soul	When I got on the chat room with The AALBC. com founder, Troy Johnson, Thumper and Linda, author of Althea, our topic of discussion was \\"What's Next\\" by Walter Mosley, a cleverly interwoven essay designed to encourage African Amercians to take action and bring the world to peace, among all of the latest world issues and tragedies evolving from September 11.     I am merciful that this world renown writer survived the tragedies and caught the glimpse of horror in New York on the eventful day from his high rise posh apartment in Manhattan. I am resolved that he tributes his book to Haki Madhubiti.     Okay, the man has clout, we're in for a conversation, and all is touching. Kudos go out to Mr. Mosley for listening to his grandpa who shares the irony of war, and plight of Black Americans being faced with the realization that even if Black and in American uniform, are discriminated against, shot and forcefully killed by opposing forces with the same anger and resentment toward White soldiers during World War 2 as an \\"American.\\"     The question of Americanism fuels the reader's daunting emotions, who Mosley seems to sheepishly but intentionally question, \\" Are you proud to be American?\\" A gulp of hot fiery tension develops in the base of the readers neck, emotions fly, and before you know it, you too are lashing out at the brilliant writer with menacing anger, but it's really the issues you've been waiting to quell.    This isn't a conversation that unfolds, it's a war between those who debate the issue. After the debate is over, you cleverly realize that as an African American you have fallen into Mr. Mosley's trap which unveils the issues within the Black Community and even how we relate to one another.     The question is no longer, \\"Are you proud to be American?\\" but do you really love and respect your fellow Americans no matter what culture, ethnicity, race, upbringing and race enough to take pride in being an American citizen even with the tragedies bestowed uponBlack America from slavery to social upheavals.     After all, many Black Americans are living the dream, and financially stable. Are these folks, like White America responsible for helping those not as well off? Are we asking for reimbursement from within our own community of successful Blacks in America to digress from retribution owed to Black America for the injustices and inequitable land bartering reminiscent of the sell out of Manhattan to Native Americans? Questions, questions, questions unfold, and the question of what do we do is so earthshaking, that between all of our responses on the chat room, cause the transcript to be lost forever. My computer also froze.    My last thought, \\"Did someone freeze my computer? Only being humorous. I hope Thumper, and I can make up, and I thank Troy Johnson for being a mediator of cyber war. I would have to blame Walter for this fateful mishap and forbid him to keep his questions to himself.    However, expect your heart to palpitate, emotions to fly, and true forgiveness of the eloquent Mr. Mosley, who only asked a question. Calm down, enjoy this thorough and poignant read. I hope you didn't think this question would be answered in one read? Expect many more debates and emotions run amuck from those who have missed the message. I hear you Walter. What is next?    Question: Was that Walter Mosley featured live on C-Span during The Harlem Book Fair 2003 blending in with the questioners of the panelists and just as charming as ever? Who would know the man is a humorous and light-hearted soul who can stir up controversy around the world with such powerful strength to affect a whole nation?	2004-09-12
US	31055952	RR63LQARBW9BB	0743470214	680942558	Wendy's Got the Heat	Books	5	2	6	N	N	Da Bronx loves Wendy's book, and we made sure they sold out!	No doubt, Wendy's got a hot book in the Bronx, my hometown.It's back with a whole new cover. We made sure to that because she's a down to earth, no nonsense radio personality whose got the guts to be controversial, and holding it down as a woman where  men give no love back to black woman or today, nor respect. Wendy's Got The Heat of the radio world, and her sister in the Bronx is holding it down as the heat of the literary world. Okay, we're not related, but the self respect is there. After reading her book, I was too proud of the reigning queen of hip hop radio. I now understand what is goin' on and my goodness, her gossip is all true so it seems. So far, 12 rumors are right in the news and validated. Much props to the lady despite situations. Should have had great friends to steer her away from past troubles, but that isn't a given when you're in the entertainment industry. \\"Wendy's Got The Heat\\" begins with this author's daring reflections on what it takes to get to where she's at, and shuns those who have gotten to where they are at by disrespecting their values and integrity. She is definitely an authority on the air, and whether folks like her raunchy and controversial \\"National Inquirer\\" style personality, her book let's you know that she should be one of the most respected and glorified radio talk show hosts in history. This is a book you will enjoy for the raunchy appeal of it all. I think a little Wendy, Amy DuBuois from the former Honey Magazine that may be hopefully making a comeback, and myself starting up a magazine for da ladies in the Bronx would rule. It would be over. For now, you go Wendy! Hold your head up high and do your thing!	2004-09-12
US	31055952	RUM5KOXJVL3VM	1930586965	707445657	Soaring on Clipped Wings	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Disilgold SOUL rates Soaring On Clipped Wings 5 Stars!	Soaring On Clipped Wings is an uplifting story about human potential, told through the lives of Zaddik Freedman and Tahiri Meroe. In this work of fiction the two main characters are fully devoted to the pursuit of \\"purpose\\" in their lives. As a result, destiny causes them to meet and unite in a plan to use their individual lives to foster positive societal changes. For this African-American hero and heroine, the road to success has been an obstacle course, paved with less-than-perfect personal choices as well as traumatic circumstances. Yet, they have soared above these conditions to become exemplary achievers.   Tahiri Meroe, a free spirited divorc with a young son to rear, is managing to carve her niche in the thriving Houston metropolis as a freelance producer. Zaddik Freedman is a single-parent father. For each, the attainment of material wealth does not equate to the wealth of their souls that radiate with hope for the youth of a community at risk of destruction.   Exchanging glances caused more than the flutter of two hearts when Tahiri and Zaddik met. Unaware of the depth of meaning for the term ``soul mate'', Tahiri did not know the lasting impact that such a chance meeting would have on her life. From a love for jazz, gospel, dance, theater and African heritage to the appreciation of early morning dew on flowers awakening to the sun, Tahiri and Zaddik share like minds. A cultured man, soft-spoken yet intense in his involvements, Zaddik held an alluring appeal for Tahiri. They relate with one another from a mystical approach that allows them to explore intriguing, new possibilities for their human potentials.   While they work to better the quality of life for disadvantaged youngsters, their romantic relationship propels both individuals to deepening awakenings of spiritual insight. Through their faith they gain greater grace for personal relationships and to benefit the human condition. Soaring On Clipped Wings is, at its core, a redemptive work that glimmers with hope for the future of all humanity.  A BEAUTIFUL STORY!	2004-05-12
US	31055952	R2IMMDAPJRFU4Y	0525947760	878004829	Naughty or Nice	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Never Settle For Less Ladies!	Naughty &amp; Nice is everything right. I loved this book for one reason, I can't stand folks telling me to settle for anything. I want it all! Eric is royalty and has written the kind of book on the issues I can always relate to and knows how to keep his loyal readers coming back for more. Loved it! Terrific and fresh!	2004-04-03
US	31055952	R3OGXSFESVKMVS	0452285127	325270168	The Angry Black Woman's Guide to Life	Books	5	4	4	N	N	An entertaining book!	Indeed the book is a quick read, but I found it entertaining. You really don't have to be angry to read ABW, and men will love this book too. Cute, and different.	2004-04-03
US	31055952	R3IMADAWY2P670	0974533602	149997818	Rap Superstar	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Very Entertaining Book!	I enjoyed Debra's book. I would highly suggest bookstores and booksellers stock this book. It is a very hot book and creating a major buzz wave with noteworthy bookclubs.	2004-03-21
US	31055952	RSIWHZHIIR4MQ	1403354227	988941418	PerSOULnalities: Poems for Every Kind of Woman:  The Complete Trilogy Series	Books	5	0	0	N	N	PerSOULnalities has taken over with subtle grace or warning!	From publicist: \\"Who is this Native New Yorker who has created an ocean of fictitious caricatures about every kind of woman, who she affectionately calls, \\"PerSOULnalities\\" in her latest poetry trilogy series, PerSOULnalities: Poems For Every Kind Of Woman? Why, it is no other than the Poetical Princess of the Bronx herself, Heather Covington. Don't be fooled, readers will feel enchanted, tossed, displaced, restored, nurtured and validated all in one after meeting these zany and off-your-seat caricatures from neighbors, and strangers to friends and co-workers. No one is left out. Heather's new genre of neo-perSOULnal poetry is an eclectic whirlpool of emotional fury, despair, greed and envy as told by the caricatures and restored nuances, of which a few will splash readers with positivity and renewed hope. Don't be surprised if some of her comical urban twisted to philosophically political caricatures remind you of yourself. She's even added an encore of poems about herself and a reading group guide that will challenge readers to search for their own treasures and challenge those who try to rob folks of their inner jewels. Find out if you've been robbed, and how you can get your treasures back today by reading these poems.\\"	2004-03-18
US	31055952	R1J2KMGVC7NK6	097446130X	52074910	Twisted	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Possibly one of the best young adult Christian books!&quot;	Not only is Tim Everett's book one of the most beautiful book covers I have seen this year for young adults, but it is a  heartwarming Christian story that is written with the kind of genius that made me shut down Disilgold, Inc. to understand the mind of this author. The story plot centers on a mysterious break in to an historical estate that leads to the disappearance of ancient artifacts. The plot unveils as three children try to discover the mystery of the stolen ancient artifacts that turn out to be a journey even adult readers will never want to leave. The story teaches family values along the way, is quite humorous, and at other times an educational motif that must be read by every soul who enjoys a heartwarming story. Where is Steven Spielberg? I am enchanted by this author's work. Upon finally touching base with the southern writer, I discovered that his entire home had been burned down, and car. Amazingly, his book manuscript was left unscathed. In my opinion, there has to be some kind of symbolic gesture behind the retrieval of Tim's story, and it may be just one of the greatest Young Adult Christian stories ever told! I will never stop talking about this book until I see it as number one for Christian adult fiction.	2004-03-18
US	31055952	R3H3SOB7RPXL0Y	1414022182	246790699	The Disilgold Way: Countdown 101 From Writer to Self Publisher	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Welcome to The Disilgold Way! Readers rate it 5 STARS!	About the book from publisher: \\"The Disilgold Way: Countdown 101 From Writer To Self Publisher is a motivational novel by Heather Covington about how a young CEO of the Bronx built a publishing and publicity company, plus one of the largest online infused networks, The DLNA. She also, reveals the making of The Disilgold Soul Literary Review, an award publication, and The YOUnity Reviewers World Wide. Heather gives \\"The Writer\\" step by step details on writing a book, copyright basics, obtaining a business license, tax and book keeping information, how to self publish, the pro and cons of print on demand, setting up an office, marketing tips, and creating a media setup kit that helped the CEO to earn awards, rave reviews, interviews on radio and plus newspaper, magazine and top website spotlights without conventional bookstore sales. Not only can this book offer just as much as most books on self publishing, but it acknowledges hundreds of people in the literary world who inspired Heather. The Disilgold Way is a treasure of inspiration for \\"The Writer\\" who desires to enjoy the process of becoming a self publisher.\\"	2004-03-18
US	31055952	RPI32OEKLLYIJ	1929279035	959442162	Vengeance is Mine	Books	5	1	2	N	N	5 STARS! THE DLNA YOUNITY REVIEWERS WORLDWIDE	\\"Keesha Smalls has been out of passion's game for a long time until she takes a second look at her best friend's son. The dashingly gorgeous Chris Walker brings more than flaming romance to Keesha's bedroom. Their illicit romance is perfect until Christine, Chris' mother finds out.\\" A thriller classic and quite possibly, Hope's most captivating  novel to date.	2004-02-10
US	31055952	R2SOBNK3TBH5WT	0743228677	700234701	Diary of a Groupie: A Novel (Tyree, Omar)	Books	5	0	2	N	N	Most worthy of 5 Stars and Bronxites agree!	Mr. Omar Tyree's book does not play into the fanatical desires of readers who have been overly exposed to so many eye candy books that it is hard to believe that the diary entries of a normal woman would be void of entertainment for the reader. I was able to believe this story and envision it as a movie. Afterall, no one would write real diary entries to entertain the reader, and this comes after reading so many reviews on the issue. This is one of those books that comes with the aftermath of  erotica and urban fictionalized garbage that is designed to insult the reader without authenticity, but America buys it anyway. Shannon Holmes and Zane are by far the best at these genres, but some of these books lack a real story plot and substance which Omar gives for the intelligent reader and perhaps why The Bronx, (buying middle class folks who did not fill out the census bureau because they work so hard)have welcomed Omar's latest book onto their bookshelves. This book is ready for the big screen, and then  folks will see that they need to go back and reread this book from beginning to end and not skip any pages. I was just as engaged in this book as I was upon reading In My Bedroom by Donna Hill. I can envision Tabitha becoming entangled with a world that overpowers her and where men can be ruthless and coniving, but she utilizes the sword with which she writes with to decipher all reasoning  and doubt of adversion with reasonability and wit. This game is not over, and I don't doubt that the sophomore version of Diary of a Groupie  II perhaps, from a real lady's perspective  this time will set this book back on track as a favorite once again on the best seller list. I commend Omar for not getting carried away with using sterotypical elements of any kind of women for the most part. I found the story engaging.  I certainly don't condone of Tabitha's life style, but she is intelligent, and I was able to read this book with sheer enjoyment from beginning to end. There are broken areas that actually kept me engaged, but that is what you call masterful writing and  what a true reader follows to make inferences and draw one's own conclusions. When a book is able to leave you grasping for answers, it is a success. I don't doubt there will be a part 2, and I am predicting a straight face look from Tabitha draped in  Black satin this time on the cover! I am astonished by the reviews here that seem frivilous and revengeful. OOPS, my bad... I am the personalities guru of some books that have me studying the behavior of reviewers these days. I mean, when a person takes the time to issue a bad review on a site, it leaves little room to ponder on the motive. Humm! The title seems befitting alone for what has ensued upon this talented writer, but we may have to rename the book, &quot;Diary of A Mad Groupie.&quot; If you haven't read this book yet, take your time, and enjoy.	2004-02-10
US	31055952	R24GBLJ4MIG4J5	0743249976	769740696	God's Gift to Women: A Novel	Books	5	0	2	N	N	HEATHER COVINGTON'S 5 STAR REVIEW OF GOD'S GIFT TO WOMAN	God's Gift To Woman by Michael Baisden is the book that has captured a nation of book lovers from beginning to end. I read all of the reviews here, and can't see any of this gifted writer's works getting anything less than 5 stars. I loved the drama of this book, have supported it umpteenth covers ago before the Michael Baisden craze, and held my breath upon checking to see if my prior predictions were right after all. I can't wait to see this book made into a movie. Hope this talented writer doesn't give up his writing for the celebrity life. Never has the nation been so intrigued with an author who has brought back excitement to the world of literature in the fashion as Michael has, and I am sure it hasn't been easy for the most part. Olivia is in every woman when the man with the wrong kind of personality brings out this kind of behavior. Folks, Julian Payne is that kind of man. I wonder who may play his role on the big screen or if anyone is seriously thinking of taking this book to the big screen. If so,  Hollywood has a winner if it is still open to films based on Black literature and culture. We will wait and see. Updated refelctions: Wow! It was just yesterday that I featured this review, and I had to update it to let it be known that not only did I present Michael Baisden at his own \\"Love, Lust & Lies Panel at The Harlem Hospital in New York during Harlem Book Fair 2004, but he came out to my production of The 1st YOUnity Reviewers Guild Awards and shouted out my magazine on his number one rated show on KissFM.  I never got a chance to tell him thank you!	2004-02-10
US	31055952	R3BI5H66N11XR	0595267130	710208113	Anybody Seen Junebug?	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Publisher of Disilgold Soul Literary Review Magazine	I read Delores Thornton's book before I ever knew who she was, and was amazed by the quality of character development. We immediately asked Delores to be our Disilgold Book of The Year judge, and she actually selected an author who has gone on to receive outstanding reviews. We always have said that, &quot;Talent recognizes talent.&quot; Anybody Seen Junebug? is by far one of the most intriguing books of our times that deals with issues too personal for me to discuss here, but has gone on to be among one of the favorites of YOUnity Reviewers Worldwide for content, real issues, and exposure to unfortunate situations that can happen to anyone, and at any time. Never feel that you are alone if your suffer from dual personalities. This disease comes from extreme loneliness, depression and traumatic life's situations that many normal people hide by occupying their life with goodness for others, and or harm to escape the harshest of realities they've had to deal with, and perhaps will never tell until their dying day or until someone makes an effort to help these souls. Junebug is a classic character who I wanted to embrace, nurture, support, and help. He is the sophomore sequel to BABE!, another prior book with equal weight. I felt empathy for  Junebug. He is the underdog  and pathetic soul that folks lock up in jail and throw away the key. He is Michael Jackson, glorified and knocked down and stripped to nothingness, and may go to jail for being different when innocent, but no one will take his side so it seems.  He can be your neighbor who helped you with groceries, the man who saved your child from drowning, the next president of the United States of America, your brother, and even your father. I have a lot of sympathy for folks in his predicament, and in reality, this can be a dangerous task to take on, but someone has to care. Delores begins this journey by writing a powerful book that will bring better understanding to mental disease, and I believe that all who arewell, should feel blessed, and fortunate to read this book, and perhaps help people undergoing circumstances like those experienced by Junebug. I have no idea how Delores Thornton created this character. He is totally original, quite frightening at times, mysterious, unpredicatable, and the kind of character fit for a movie like The Green Mile. This one is an unassuming winner that is powerfully overwhelmed by the glittery books on the market. I encourage true die hard book lovers to read the message inside, a message much more powerful than the cover. I truly recommend this book as the standard for quality literature and I am sure many YOUnity Reviewers will agree. There is no time limit for this book to filter into every real home library. Anybody Seen Junebug? is a book of the ages, and I do not doubt that The New York Times Review will one day feature this book which is far too sophisticated to be a trend. This book is one for life long domain. I am very proud of Delores Thornton's work and believe that Junebug will become a celebrity very soon. I also, love the matching CD. Brilliant work!!!!!!!	2004-01-18
US	31055952	RF58K4BIRS7CJ	0452284600	776376479	Souls of My Brothers: Black Men Break Their Silence, Tell Their Truths and Heal Their Spirits	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Anything With Soul Catches My Attention!	I enjoyed the narratives of men of today in their own words. Women have often tried to understand these souls, and for some reason can never get it right. So we might as well let these men express themselves. However, I do know that there are always some hidden truths. I look forward to the version for women, and if folks can't get enough of this intimate look at personalities of today's man and woman, I strongly suggest reading PerSOULnalities: Poems For Every Kind of Woman and PerSOULnalities: Poems For Every Kind of Man which both tell both men and women the truths that can't be hidden from a personafied characters. I am going to spread the word about this book, and it has hit the airwaves all over New York. Much luck to these outstanding compilers.	2003-09-29
US	31055952	R1FJ50LMLU8XD4	1401030424	866532929	Infinite Power of Liberty: The Sovereign Spirit of Indigenous Patriotism	Books	5	3	7	N	N	In regard to my brothers review in LA!	I was able to understand the concept of this book and speak personally with the writer on his scope of Lennni Lenabe People. My understanding is that we are a solemn people. You may not see much activism, but activism by the people can be felt because we are able to interact one to one to spread the message of peace and love. This is the new activism of the millinneum. it is not for you to agree or disagree. This book is the written word, and for the intellectual minds that understand the meaning of origin and how this land came to be. It is like the bible. The understanding is there because the faith is there. There are no questions. Learn to be what you feel, and rather than just see what you do not know. This is a powerful book. Allow its message to reawaken our orgin and true rights of passage.	2003-08-27
US	31055952	R3S26CV3NWJZBU	1583143858	855656027	Could It Be Magic? (Arabesque)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	5 Stars! The DLNA	Words can not express how delighted I was to finally get my personal copy of Could It Be Magic.  There's just something about Deirdre's writing style that I really enjoy. Deirdre Savoy is not only a high quality writer, but most looked up to by writers around the world. I look forward to Mrs. Savoy's ASAP Tour, and tips on creating a winning novel. Holding Out For A Hero was just as fun to read. I highly prefer to read Mrs. Savoy's books. They are warm, inspirational and well written. She's done it again with Could It Be Magic, and I look forward to her next project. I wonder what James Lisbon from AMAG will think when I send him a personal copy.	2003-08-27
US	31055952	R57QT5UI3Z5AU	1401065503	567353434	The Soul of a Black Woman: From a Whisper to a Shout	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Poetry has never been this personal, pure and passionate	I must say, Cynthia pours her soul into this unique work in a way that women can relate to and treasure as one of the most moving poetry books of our time! Men will enjoy this book too which reveals intimate details on how woman view their Black African Men. Don't let the cover fool you, Cynthia is all grown up and a diva at heart, zest for life, fond appreciation and love for her family, dual career oriented as evidenced in this masterpiece and has a very promising future as a writer. This is one lady to look out for. 5 Stars! The DLNA Heather Covington ( Founder of Disilgold)	2003-05-11
