US	31108057	R1DW3EPKE68T2X	0449006360	894257952	The Duke	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Excellent book. A real page turner.	I have just finished reading this book, and I enjoyed it so much that I literally could not put it down. I came to the web site to see what other people have to say about it, not really intending to write a review, but when I read the review of \\"A Concerned Citizen\\", I just could't help myself.  I had to write something to contradict what she says.    I was shocked to read all the things she wrote about this book, I was reading her long tirade with my mouth open and a disbelieving expression on my face.  Now, I know that everybody is entitled to have their own opinions, but when you are writting a review you should be objective.  THE BOOK I READ DOESN'T EVEN RESEMBLE WHAT SHE DESCRIBES IN HER REVIEW. For example, where in the book does Robert treat her like [...]? Where is it implied that to be a hostess you have to be a [...]?  When do they engage in this \\"sodomy\\" she refers to?     These are just a few examples.  I won't get into more details because I would need to write a review even longer than hers, and I don't want to bore anybody.     I will just say that Robert is one of the most romantic characters I have come across.  Every woman should be so lucky to have a man like him in their lives. Yes, he makes mistakes, but he NEVER abuses her, nor does he makes demands on her. In fact their arrangement did not include sex, and he behaves most honorably towards her. In a time and period where men had all the power (specially rich dukes), where women were suppossed to come virgin to the marriage bed, where a lady's name could be besmirched just by acknowledging a courtesan, he became her protector, her knight in shining armor and her lover and every page of the book is filled with the love they felt for each other.    If you have not read this book, give it a chance.  Don't let misinformed reviewers put you off. The book is well worth it.	2005-08-31
US	31108057	R1D2EEUBNG780E	0778320928	97876202	Let Me Be Your Hero (MIRA)	Books	2	14	16	N	N	Full of mistakes and discrepancies.	This book contains so many mistakes that I wonder if somebody proofread it before it went to print.    In the first place, the synopsis on the back cover is misleading, since it doesn't give you a sense of how the story really unfolds. For example the back cover reads \\"Eight years ago (...) she lost her heart and her husband to foolish pride\\" But it was not eight years ago but only two (they meet in 1741, get married a year later and get divorced after one year of marriage), that would mean they parted ways in 1743 and get reunited again in 1745. Even counting from the time they first met, to the end of the book, it doesn't make 8 years but barely 4. The synopsis also reads \\"After his daring rescue sends them running for their lives through the wild, windswept hills...\\" and I wonder, when did this happen? The rescue occurred at the end of the book, not in the middle as the synopsis makes you think, and they never ran to any hills. It seems to me that the cover was designed and printed before the novel was written, and then the author changed her mind and wrote a completely different story.    Second, this book is a sequel to \\"The Highlander\\" which takes place in 1740 and maybe the beginning of 1741, and is the story of Jamie the Earl of Monleigh and Fraser's brother. However, when at the beginning of this book somewhere during the Spring or Summer of 1741 Claire's father asks Jamie if he is married yet or thinking of getting married, he responds that he is not married, that he is thinking about it but cant decide between all the lasses. That threw me off, since by that time he must have at the very least met Sophie and decided to marry her. Later in the book, Sophie magically appears as if the author had suddenly remembered her.    Another thing is that this novel does not seem to take into account the historic events of the time and place in which it develops. In 1745 a mayor uprising occurred in Scotland. I'm no expert, but I have read several other novels from this period that seem to have more consideration for history, and as I understand it, in 1745 the Highlanders rallied to Prince Charles Stuart and rose against the English in an attempt to put the Stuart king on the throne. The English crushed the rebellion and the Highland Clans suffered harsh reprisal for their participation in it. I would have thought that an event of this magnitude would at least be acknowledged in this book, but it isn't even mentioned.     The book ends abruptly. What was called the epilogue should have been the last chapter, then it needed a real epilogue to tell us what happened after Fraser rescued Claire, and what punishment was given to the villains of this story, Isobel and Lord Walter. I have rarely encountered characters so evil as these two, and was looking forward to the time when they would be punished for all their horrendous acts. To simply be told that they had been arrested and were going to be tried is not the end I had imagined for them. It is too easy and doesn't even begin to pay for all their murderous acts and cruelty. After all the suffering they caused and the violent scenes that were vividly described, I think the readers were cheated out of the satisfaction of seeing them receive their just punishment.    One think I did not particularly like, was that the characters were too young. When the book started Fraser was 19 and Claire 15. By the end they could not have been more than 25 and 20. It is not impossible to believe that a girl of only 16 years could assume and fulfill the responsibilities of an earldom, or that she could show such maturity, but it is difficult. It would have been more believable if they were a little older. But that is just my personal opinion.    All in all, I think the story had the potential to be a good one, if it had been properly developed and someone had taken the time to correct the errors. As it is, it appears that it was written in a hurry just to have something ready to meet a deadline.By the way, I wonder what book did Harriet Klausner read, because judging by her review it certainly wasn't the same one I read. It makes me wonder about the helpful votes she received. Maybe there is another version of this book I know nothing about?	2005-01-04
US	31108057	R1558JE4COD11J	0451406141	162145347	Shattered Rainbows	Books	5	3	3	N	N	This book is sooo good!	I love this \\"Fallen Angel\\" series, and I have read every single one of the stories, except \\"River of Fire\\", which will be next if I can get my hands on it. Mary Jo Putney is definetely a gifted writer.  <br /> <br />However I have to confess that I was not looking forward to this book that much, I guessed that because Michael is a soldier there would be too much war involved to my liking. And there was war alright. Almost half of the book takes place around the Penninsular Campaign and the Battle of Waterloo. Nonetheless, I was captured by this book from the first page. It was a real effort to put it down, when I had other duties to attend to. I should have had more faith in MJP talent. <br /> <br />The narrative was compelling and strong, the description of places and circumstances was so well done that I felt like I was watching a movie. By the way, why hasn't this book made into a movie? Sometimes I watch movies with huge budgets depicting this period and their stories are not half as good as this one. This novel has all the elements to be transformed into a great epic movie - war, action, adventure, intrigue, compelling and believable characters, inner struggles and love, lots of romance and love. I know I would rather watch a movie based on this novel than \\"The Last Samurai\\" or \\"Master and Comander\\" for example. It is a shame that Hollywood producers don't turn to romace novels for inspiration, because I think several I have read, specially from authors like Mary Jo Putney and Jo Beverley would make splendid motion pictures. <br /> <br />But I digress. Really there is not much I can add to what other reviewers have written about this book. I can only say it is magnificent. An example of what a romance novel should be like. I strongly recommend this book and the rest of the \\"Fallen Angels\\" series. Actually I recommend all books from Mary Jo Putney.	2004-12-24
US	31108057	R3GBL209LPC1IS	006054175X	777912160	His Every Kiss (Guilty Series)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Great characters and a captivating story.	This is the first book I have read from this author, but it certainly won't be the last. I throughly enjoyed this novel, to the point of losing sleep because I simply could not put it down.  <br /> <br />The characters are fascinating, well drawn and tri-dimensional. They are portrayed with all their faults and virtues, which makes them more human and real to the reader. I loved the fact that the main character was a musician, and not another of the war heroes and spies that are numerous in romance novels. Frankly, I don't find war romantic at all, therefore, I don't find soldiers very appealing either. A musician, however, specially a pianist, I find extremely sensual (just imangine those big, skilled hands and you'll know why) I don't know why they are not featured more in romance novels. <br /> <br />Dylan is the epitome of the tortured hero; intense, passionate, extremely talented, and totally disreputable but at the same time he had a tender side and good heart that he is just now beginning to discover.  <br /> <br />Grace is a sensible practical, intelligent and passionate woman, just the perfect mate for Dylan. And Isabel, well she is a little precocious for an 8 year old, but that is understandable considering the enviroment in which she grew up and her own natural brilliance. She is the 8 year old little girl who throws tantrums and cries if she doesnt' get her way, and the child who has suffered much neglect and is in desperate need of parental attention and love. <br /> <br />The only reason I did not give this book 5 stars in that the end seemed kind of abrupt. I think this book needed at least another chapter or an epilogue as there were issues still unresolved. For example, what happened with Dylan's affliction? Did he ever get cured or would he have to live the rest of his life with the constant noise in his head? This matter is mentined so much in the book that I think it needed a satisfactory resolution. Sure, he was able to compose again, in spiteof his condition, but he still was unable to sleep well and frankly, to have a constant screech in one's head must be sheer torture, specially for a musician. I would have liked for him to get cured.  <br /> <br />But that is only my personal preference. It's just that I so love happy endings, and I always want everything to be pefect at the end. I know is not the way reality works, but that is why I read romance novels, if I wanted cold hard reality I would read a biography or a history book. <br /> <br />I really hope the author continues this series, she certainly has material for at least two other books in Dylan's brother Ian and his friend Hammond (maybe he will reconcile with his wife?)In any case I will be eagerly awaiting the next book by this author. <br />	2004-12-04
US	31108057	RXQBG7YJMDY9N	0060091290	575112977	Secrets of a Summer Night (The Wallflowers, Book 1)	Books	3	5	9	N	N	Insufferable heroine.	There is little more I can add to what others reviewers have said about the heroine. I, too, found her shallow, self-absorbed, selfish, manipulative and snobbish. And totally undeserving of Simon. <br /> <br />I really can not see the reason of his attraction to her. Sure, she was beautiful, but she was also quite a b****. Rejecting and looking down on him at every turn. Thinking herself superior to him because she had some obscure claim at gentility (it wasn't either as if she was part of the nobility). He really looked a little pathetic running after her, while she didn't waste any chance to let him know how litte she thought of him. And all because he had made his fortune working honestly.  <br /> <br />I can not fathom how she could admire more some pampered aristocrat, whose fortune had been handed to him, and had not had to lift a finger to do anything useful his whole life, than Simon, who had proved to be intelligent and hardworking enough to build his fortune on his own. <br /> <br />Simon, I have to agree with other reviewers was a great character. Handsome, intelligent, self assured, kind. He is the kind of man any woman could fall in love with. But he chooses instead to buy the affection of a scheeming fortune hunter, who had her nose to high in the air to see the great man she had in front of her. <br /> <br />Of course, since this is a romance novel, she ends up falling in love with him, and she almost dies in the end trying to save him. This drastic measure was necessary because I think at that point all the readers must have been so annoyed with her that nothing else could have conviced us that she was really in love with Simon.  <br /> <br />But I can't help but thinking that this is not one fo Lisa's best books. In adition to my dislike for the heroine almost until the end, the book was boring at the beginning. I was tired of reading about the endless details of the house party and the childish plans she and her friends concocted. To me nothing interesting happened until more than halfway through the book. <br /> <br />And this book certainly does not measure up to the Bow Street series, which I personally think are the best she has ever written. Before that, I considered her just another writter that I occasionally read, not bad, but not among my favorites either, but with the Bow Street Series she stablished herself firmly in my list of favorites, and I was kind of hoping she would continue the series with Dr.Linley's story. I was pretty sure she would, since he was presented in several of her books as hero material, instead she started this new series, which has not had an auspicious start.  <br /> <br />Nevertheless I will probably by her next book, not that I am terribly intrigued about the Earl and the American Heiress, but I think an author who has written such good books in the past has it in her to write a great one again. She just needs to find her inspiration. Let's hope it happens soon.	2004-11-28
US	31108057	R3RX40QTA6VKUL	0553587293	664016094	The Romantic (Seducer)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Wonderfully romantic.	It had been a while since I read a book that I did not want to put down for a moment. I was in the middle of reading another novel, when surprisingly, I found this one in the bookstore. I immediately bought it and as soon as I got home \\"dumped\\" the other book and started reading this one. I had been waiting for Julian and Penelope's story almost since the first book in the series, I had already begun to think that it was not going to be written, because of all the time that had passed within the series (15 years), but it was worth the wait, because as much as I like the other books, this one just became my favorite of this series. <br /> <br />I was always intrigued by Julian Hampton, I knew that beneath the cool facade and reticent silences, lay a man of deep and powerful pasions. This character is so compeling that for him alone I would have given the book 5 stars. <br /> <br />That doesn't mean that the book itself doesn't deserve the 5 star rating, the story is fast paced, full of suspense, pasion, tendernes, heart wrenching moments, and above all; love. <br /> <br />I only wish this book had been placed earlier in the series. Between The Saint and The Charmer would have been a good spot for it. It's just that I feel sorry for Julian and Penelope. They had to wait so long to find happiness! The delay in writting this book makes me think that the author hadn't planned to write it at all, that it was only because of the interest generated by these characters that it was decided to create this book. In any case, I'm grateful it was written, because it is one of my favorite novels of all times.	2004-11-06
US	31108057	R20JCZFFWAU2G6	0451405986	354284501	Angel Rogue: Revised Edition (Fallen Angels Novels)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Really, all the "Fallen Angels" books are excellent.	I don't know how I had not discovered this author sooner. I have been reading romance novels for about 3 years now and never before had I read a book by Mary Jo Putney. The first one I read \\"Dearly Beloved\\", was so beautiful that I went back for more, and after reading \\"One Perfect Rose\\" which is part of the Fallen Angels series, I was hooked. I knew I had to read the whole series, and so far none of the books I have read have dissapointed me.    In the case of this book, I have not yet read \\"Petals in the Storm\\", so I did not have any background knowledge about Lord Robert Andreville, but he is a fascinating character. His dazzling personality was so well portrayed that it leaps from the pages and you feel like you know him. I loved his sense of humor, his charm, his varied and amusing talents, the fact that under all that fancy facade there was a core of steel. Maxima was an exceptional heroine too, even though I can't really say that I feel a strong conection with her (I would never even dream of embarking on a trip of over 200 miles on foot, on a strange land and with almost no money) But that is what makes her extraordinary besides, she is also very kind, courageous and intelligent and those are qualities I admire.    The only thing that I found that was a little unbelievable and incomprehensible is the fact that Robin would embark on this trip with her with no money, and no provisions whatsoever. That he felt the need to accompany her, I can understand, but why didn't he make a small detour to the house first to fetch money, and two horses or a carriage to make the trip more confortable? I know he is an adventurer and an excentric, but my practical and comfort-liking mind just rebelled at the thought that someone would deliberately choose the hard path when there was an easier and more efficient way to accomplish things. I guess I'm not very adventuresome.     I connected more with Robert's brother Giles (which doesn't mean that I liked him better than Robin,just that I find his personality easier to relate to) He and Maxima's aunt Desdemona are great secondary characters. I wish they had gotten their own novel instead of just being a sub plot of this one. But their story definitely enriched this book.    All in all, I think this book is excellent. I would recommend this and all the books in this series to anyone who likes a well written story, with strong lovable characters and a mix of passion and adventure to make it all more interesting.	2004-08-15
US	31108057	R25N45PN0779CJ	0451209109	818555212	Dancing on the Wind	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Just like the other books in the series: Excellent	This book, cronologically the second story of the \\"Fallen Angels\\" series is about Lucien, the Earl of Strathmore. When his spying business requires him to become a member of the Hellfire League, a club of dissolute rakes, in order to investigate his leaders,who are suspected of treason, he meets Kit Travers. Lucien is more than a little intrigued by the resourcefull girl who appears to have several personalities and the hability to fool even him, a seasoned spy. She is also investigating the club members for reasons of her own, so they both decide to become partners and help each other.    The story is engaging, sensual and fast paced, sometimes funny, and other times poignant.     I liked both main characters a lot. Lucian is not a rake, all the contrary, he is hardworking and dedicated, honorable and respectable. He hides behind his work to escape the hurts of a shattered childhood but yearns for a relatioship where he can find love and intimacy, a person with whom he can share everything.     Kit is a very likeable character too, she is intelligent, resourceful and determined, but what I liked the most about her is that although extreme circumstances have forced her into a world of danger and lies, and she is courageous enough to do what needs to be done, she is not really the adventuresome kind. She is afraid, and nervous and longs for it all to finish so that she can return to her normal life. That makes her character much more real than other heroines that are just too spirited and reckless to be believable.    The only trouble that I had with the story is the extra-sensorial connection that Kit and her sister have. It was a little hard for me to understand and accept it, perhaps because I'm not a twin, and have never experienced anything like that, although I have heard of twins that can sense each other's pain and feelings. But I think the story relied too heavily on the bond between the sisters, and while the bond between twins may be real, in this book I found it somewhat fantastical at times.     That is something I have found frecuently in Mary Jo Putney's novels. In most of them there is a magical or \\"spiritual\\" element somewhere in the story, and I'm not sure I like that completely. I like my stories more real. But that is just my personal taste. Except for this small matter I found the book extremely good. The secondary characters (Kit's sister Kira and Jason Travers) are wonderful too, and could have been the main characters of another story.    All in all an excellent book. In fact so far I have not yet read a book by this author that I don't like. Keep them coming Mary Jo Putney!	2004-08-15
US	31108057	R1FMTUBJHZ821Z	045120851X	61510005	Dearly Beloved (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	5	27	33	N	N	Love it or hate it. There is no middle ground.	Personally, I loved this book. This was the first one that I read by this author, now I just finished reading it again and loved it even more the second time. <br /> <br />I know several other reviewers disagree with me, and I have to admit that this book is not for everyone, but if you like a romance that deals with serious issues, without losing the magic, this is it. <br /> <br />Mary Jo Putney combines polemic issues like rape, homosexuality, child abuse and prostitution, an accurate historical background, an interesting plot with a few twists, and a very poignant and passionate love story. What more can you ask for? <br /> <br />All the characters are well developed and three dimensional, and even though I didn't always agree with the way they acted, I was able to understand the reasons, fears and inner conflicts that motivated them. Personally, I loved Gervase and Diana, as well as Diana's son Geofrey. They became real to me, and I cared deeply for them and their happiness. <br /> <br />I won't say anymore because I don't want to spoil the book for those who haven't read it, like some reviewers have done. I'll just  say that in my opinion, this a very well written and enjoyable book, one that makes the Romance genre proud.	2004-07-17
US	31108057	R2MD8LIXW9WAV8	0060531231	291945801	When He Was Wicked (Bridgertons)	Books	3	20	24	N	N	Could have been great, but there was something missing.	I love the stories of unrequited and impossible love. When I read the synopsis of this book, I though that possibly it was going to be my favorite Bridgerton book. After all what is more heartwrenchingly romantic than a hero who has secretly loved his cousin wife since the moment he met her, but knows that he could never have her? And there were really poignant moments that even managed to bring me to tears.<br />What went wrong then? In the first place, at times it was difficult to understand why Michael fell in love with Francesca so quickly, deeply and undonditionally. The book just says he did, but I guess I don't believe in &quot;love&quot; at first sight. Atraction? Yes, but a deeper attachement takes more time to develop. <br />The other thing I didn't like (and this is a criticism I had for &quot;Romancing Mister Bridgerton&quot; as well) is that their first kiss is described from Francesca's perspective instead of Michael's. I don't know why Julia Quinn always does that. One has been reading about how Michael loves her and desires her and longs to kiss her, but when the much awaited moment arrives when he, finally!, kisses her, we don't know how he felt, because the book shifts to Francesca's point of view. Isn't that frustrating? I think Julia Quinn could have gotten more feeling out of that important moment in the plot by simply narrating it from Michael's perspective. She can describe later what Francesca felt, but in that moment the most important thing is what Michael is feeling, not Francesca.<br />And lastly, I don't like that Francesca is never very convincing in her love for Michael. Almost until the end of the book there is not love mentioned on her part. She doesn't even admit it to herself. She just says that she feels desire for Michael but John is the only man she has ever trully loved. It's not until Michael gets ill and she believes he might die that she can bring herself to admit that she loves him. But since she spends the rest of the novel oblivious to this feeling, it doesn't sound convincing. <br />Other than that, the novel is not bad. Michael is a great character and the love story beautiful.	2004-07-10
US	31108057	RCAE98IEBV1A2	0060529466	846427863	An Invitation to Seduction	Books	5	9	11	N	N	The hero is one of those characters I wish were real.	Lorraine Heath has a gift for creating the most wonderful heroes. The kind I wish were real instead of just a character of a novel. The hero of her previous book \\"Love with a Scandalous Lord\\" Rhys Rhodes is one of my all time favorites, therefore, I was coming to this book with great expectations about the male character. Well, I'm glad to say that I was not dissapointed in the least. Richard is a fantastic hero.<br />Unfortunately I can not say the same thing about the heroine \\"Kitty\\". I got tired of her rejection of Richard in favor of Farthingham. Her fears and worries do seem rather foolish, and somewhat annoying, but to be fair, she is quite young, inexperienced and raised in a society that had very rigid moral standars, so I guess her position is understandable. It is just that I fell in love with Richard since the moment he sends her the 1000 flowers that he had grown himself. Talk about a romantic gesture! I admit that the logical side of my mind thinks it was a little exagerated, but the romantic side thinks that is precisely what makes it more endearing.<br />The story is engaging and entertainning. The first chapter had a surreal quality to it. As if it were something out of a dream. I don't know if I was the only one that got that impression, but the dawn, the desserted beach and the nature of their encounters seem just the stuff romantic dreams are made of.  The sex scenes passionate and well written.<br />What else can I say? The book is great all around. I just hope Loraine Heath keeps writting about Victorian England, because as much as I like her writting,  I'm not really into cowboy stories.	2004-06-27
US	31108057	R35FWG810VCFBU	0385338112	961067040	Slightly Dangerous (Balogh, Mary)	Books	3	14	21	N	N	Slightly boring.	I agree with most reviewers that have rated this book poorly. Wulfric never really \\"defrosts\\". And expresions like \\"icy look\\" and \\"haughty manner\\" used in reference to him really get tiresome. Maybe it would have been ok for the first half of the book, but we were expecting to see more of the human side of him, and this is not revealed until almost the end of the book.<br />The heroine, while a sunny and likeable character, also seemed childish and foolish. Some of the scrapes she gets into are downright ridiculous and unworthy of any adult. It is funny, because while reading the previous books of this series I often wondered what kind of heroine MB would create for Wulfric. I had imagined someone quite outrageous and excentric. Someone who loved life and laughter. Someone who would mock and tease Wulfric for his self consequence and his joyless personality. And in many respects, Christine is all that, but when she gets up to stupid antics like climbing a tree she really dissapoints me. This is not sensible or adult behavior, and it is ok to be fun loving, but I think this character is a little over the top.<BR>About the story, at one point right after they first kissed I thought it would pick up the pace. But then it slows down again. Wulfric and Christine spent much time apart and almost until the end he was calling her \\"madam\\" or \\"Mrs.Derrick\\" and she was calling him \\"Your Grace\\". The atraction between them was much mentioned in the book, but I couldn't feel it. The sex scenes were few (only 2 actually) and far between, and they weren't even that great. I had always thought Wulfric was a very deep, self contained and sexual character. I had imagined this would be the one area of his life where he could \\"let go\\" and actually show his passion. The author could have taken advantage of this aspect to humanize and \\"defrost\\" the character, but she doesn't.<BR>In short, the general idea of the book was good, it was just not well developed.	2004-06-20
US	31108057	R2BD0P5UKVD0V9	0727840967	800832404	Love Only Once (Malory Novels)	Books	3	3	7	N	N	Infuriating hero.	The main reason I could not enjoy this book more is that I spent most of the time furious at the hero. He acts callously and selfishly, but above all foolishly, because his \\"reason\\" to act like that is stupid in the extreme.<br />Imagine this, Nicholas is crazy about Regina, but would not consider marriying her, even after taking her virginity. The fact that she could well be carrying his child doesn't even enter his mind (...)And his reason for resisting marriage is that he is illegitimate and does not want to pass the stigma of his birth to his wife, if this fact comes to be known, as his supossed mother threatens to do. He has to be forced by Regina's uncles to marry her, which he longs to do, but resistes with all his might for the reason I mentioned above.<br />Now, this could explain why he rejects the idea of marrying, but does not explain why, once he gives in and marries her he abandons her for almost a year instead of enjoying his wife and even trusting her with his secret. He should have known that she would not reject him after knowing he is illegitimate, since her favorite cousin (who, by the way, is his best friend) is also illegitimate and she loves and accepts him. <br />But this is not all, when he finally returns to his wife, he doubts he is the father of her child. Oh, at this point I was boiling with fury and anticipating the part when he would grovel for his wife forgiveness. But guess what? It never came. He never apologizes for his despicable behavior, and his only thoughts are how to get his wife into bed again. And even more infuriating, she forgets about all he has done and wants him back in her bed too! This unrealistic behavior pretty much ruined the book for me. <br />And what about all the mistakes with the forms of address? All the males in her family are called \\"Lord Malory\\", when the proper form of addres would be for Jason \\"Lord Haverston\\" since he is the Marquess of Haverston and for the other brothers \\"Lord Edward Malory\\", \\"Lord James Malory\\" and \\"Lord Anthony Malory\\". Derek could not be the heir to his father's title, since he is illegitimate. And how did the title fo Viscount of Ryding came to be held by James when he is the third son and everybody knows that all the titles are held by the firstborn? And why is Anthony called \\"Sir Anthony\\"? Does he have a knighthood? And how did Edward come to be an Earl? It is not a common occurrence for second, third and fourth sons to hold titles, so I think this deserves some kind of explanation. <br />All the books in the series are full of these kind of mistakes and this makes me lose respect for the writer. I think that a good writer should know the details about the society she is writting about, to avoid making these silly errors that only cheapen her work and prevent the readers from taking her seriously.<br />Other books of the series are amusing, in a light sort of way, but they are enternainning nonetheless. My favorites are \\"Tender Rebel\\", \\"Gentle Rogue\\" and \\"Say you love me\\".	2004-06-05
US	31108057	R1BO2VSKED56BG	1575667371	347918605	Just Beyond Tomorrow (Brava Historical Romance)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Liked it, but I won't be reading the entire series.	I was surprised by all the negative reviews this book has received. This is the first book by Beatrice Small that I read, and while I enjoyed it very much, I won't be reading the rest of the series. By what I have read in the reviews the other books are more about erotica than lifelong love and happy endings. Maybe my taste is a little shallow, but is what I prefer nonetheless.<br />I enjoy sensuality in my romance novels as much as the next person, but I also like happy endings, and I don't like it when characters I have come to care about die untimely. I also don't like it much when the heroines have several husbands and lovers. I want' to read about two individuals that meet, fall in love, work through their differences and find their happy ending. <br />I get attached to my heroes, and I can not imagine reading a romance novel where the hero dies and the heroine goes on to have other lovers or even worse, while married to the hero has other lovers. It seems to me that in this series only the women are important, the men can be replaced, and many of them die prematurely. <br />Also, I don't like to travel through various generations, because I don't like to see the characters of previous books get old and die. I know this is the reality of life (people do get old and die), but I don't like that much reality in my books. For example, in this book, if I had read Jasmine and James story before, only to see him die at the beginning of this book, it would have broken my heart.<br />Still, this book is very well written. I have read dozens of romance novels and I can appreciate quality when I see it. The story was fast paced and entertainning, the historical facts accurate and well mixed into the story, the love scenes are very sensual and the characters very likeable, specially Patrick, because Flanna is really foolish, naive and exasperating at times, with all her talk of patriotism and loyalty to the king.<br />I guess it's fortunate that I stumbled upon one of thefew Beatrice Small books that I would be able to enjoy. I'm sure the others are very good too, as many readers say, but they are just not my cup of tea.	2004-05-02
US	31108057	R1IRE0LDCXKU4L	0060503548	524136782	All Men Are Rogues	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Several mistakes, but overall it was an entertaining read.	I bought this book together with &quot;Her Scandalous Intentions&quot;, and after reading that one (which by the way was a total disappointment) I let this one sit unread for several months, until the other day I found myself with nothing else to read, so I grabbed this one. And almost put it down again when I came across all the mistakes in the forms of address. Justin is called &quot;Lord Justin Barclay&quot;, which made me assume he was the younger son of a Duke or a Marquis, so he held a courtesy title. But then we read that he is the Marquis of Rawlings, in which case his title would be &quot;Lord Rawlings&quot; not &quot;Lord Barclay&quot; or &quot;Lord Justin Barclay&quot; and his mother would be &quot;Lady Rawlings&quot; not &quot;Lady Barclay&quot;. You would think that the author would know these basic facts, or at least her editor would. Does anybody check these books for errors before they are printed? I'm not an expert in the matter, and even I knew that. I think it is embarrassing.<br />And talking about his mother, I did not like her, but neither did I like the way he treated her when he finally stood up to her. I think he was a little harsh. Granted, his mother was a harpy, but she was still his mother, and he always said that he knew deep down she loved him, so I had hoped for reconciliation and maybe a little mellowing on her part. But anyway, it is the author's right to work out the situations as she sees fit, after all it is her novel, I'm just expressing what I would have preferred.<br />Other than that, the rest of the book was fairly good. Entertaining, fast paced and romantic.  I liked the fact that the hero Justin is sweet and tender and vulnerable and at the same time dangerous and sensual.<br />I loved Angel, and hope he gets his own novel. Oh, and by the way, if she is going to include Spanish words in her writing she should get advise on how to use them properly from someone who actually has good knowledge of the language. For example, when Angel says &quot;You English are [chiflado]&quot;, it should have been &quot;chiflados&quot;, since he is talking in plural and in Spanish the adjective changes depending on whether is being used in singular or in plural. I know this is not big deal, and most readers won't even notice, but anyone who speaks Spanish would.<br />I know that by my review, it doesn't sound as if I liked the book, but I really did. I'm just writing about the mistakes in the hope that if the authors or the editors ever read the critiques, will try to fix these errors before they are printed. Little things like that take away from a good story and ultimately give a bad name to the genre.	2004-04-04
US	31108057	R1OHDMSGW6CT8B	0060543132	135514584	England's Perfect Hero (Lessons in Love, Book 3)	Books	3	7	9	N	N	So close to being good, but lacking something.	I can honestly say I enjoy Suzanne Enoch books, they are fun to read and entertaining, the heroes are usually very likeable and the stories are engaging, but in most of them there is always something lacking. In some it is a weak heroine, in others an unreasonable one, in this book, what was lacking was the ending.<br />The book ended abruptly and left many issues unresolved, like for example, where were they going to live, whether Robert is going to do something productive with his life or if he ever got completely cured of his trauma. The book needed at least another chapter and an epilogue, specially because it is the last in the series. <br />I have liked Robert a lot since he appeared in the first book of this series, and was hopping he would get a book of his own. In this book, he didn't exactly dissapoint me (I love a brooding, troubled hero), but I would have liked that he had acomplished something more than just being able to act almost like a norman person. <br />All in all, I kind of liked the series, but it wasn't great. I'm still not very convinced about Suzanne Enoch's writting.	2004-03-14
US	31108057	R3OU2G4TDRLYC7	0060092149	56850698	Married to the Viscount (Swanlea Spinsters, Book 5)	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Very entertaining. Hard to put it down.	This book was very entertaining from beginning to end. It was fast paced, romantic and even at times poignant. <br />This is the first book I read from Jeffries, but it certaintly won't be the last, I already ordered from my bookstore (because sadly they didn't have them in stock) &quot;After the Abduction&quot; and &quot;Dance of Seduction&quot;. If they prove to be as good as this one, this author will go into my favorite's cathegory.<br />I would definitely recommend not to miss this one.	2004-02-06
US	31108057	R1P9UU6X6DZ75B	0380811081	206000474	Again The Magic	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Dark, passionate and sensual-an authentic Kleypas.	This book was a very good read. A little different from other Lisa Kleypas books since in this one, she features two stories, instead of concentrating just on the lead couple. But it was fine, because the secondary characters (who were not so secondary at all) were very likeable and added a nice element to the story.<br />The only complain I have is with Lady Aline behavior towards the man she has loved all her life. I could understand why she had to drive him away the first time, and even shed a few tears at those scenes, but I could not understand how she could possibly be willing to let him walk away a second time just out of misguided vanity. <br />These are two people who shared a passionate love when they were just teenagers, and even though they have been apart for 12 long years, they still love each other. I am awed and marveled at such a great love. I thought that Aline would come around eventually and realize that it was preferable to take a risk and give their love a chance, instead, if it hadn't been for her brother, she would have let the love of her life walk away for a second time, brokenhearted and miserable before revealing her secret. <br />I'm not saying that her reason was trivial. I'm sure having to deal with disfiguring burn scars from an accident, even if it is only on the legs must be very traumatic. But I kept hoping that her love for McKenna would overcome her fears, and when she didn't realize that she could trust him on her own, that dissapointed me a litte, and that was the reason I did not give this book 5 stars.<br />However, except for that minor issue, the book was very emotional, passionate and sensual. I would definitely recommend it. Lisa Kleypas is still one of my favorite authors.	2004-02-02
US	31108057	RORC1VQX69URH	0440241111	729777684	Slightly Scandalous	Books	2	11	19	N	N	I intensely disliked the heroine-Lady Freyja.	I really don't know how so many people have rated this book so highly. To me Freyja is totally unlikeable. She is too proud, too unyielding, too haughty, too full of herself, too selfish and too hard, none of which are qualities that I admire. Freyja didn't have a soft or feminine fiber in her body. I frankly can't understand how could Joshua (or anyone for that matter) fall in love with her, since she seems to be forever punching him in the face and mistreating him. She seemed to be angry with the world for no good reason. OK, she was once rejected by someone she thought she loved in &quot;A Summer to Remember&quot;, but even then it was originally her fault, and she acted despicably when she didn't get her way. She is just a spoiled brat who thinks she can do as she pleases and look down on everybody simply because of her powerful family. Ach!<br />The hero-Joshua- was the reason I gave this book at least 2 stars. He is a very pleasant character. Cheerful, kind, sensible, intelligent, but also firm when he had to be. I liked Joshua very much since despite his cheerful and carefree manner he conceals hurts and a less thant happy chilhood, but he hasn't allowed this to turn him bitter and resentful. He is a very possitive character and the only thing that makes this book bearable. <br />I think this is my least favorite of the Bedwyn series so far. I quite liked Morgan, but after reading her book, she is only &quot;slightly&quot; better than Freyja. I just hope Mary Balogh does better with Alleyne and Wulfric's stories, although I don't really expect much from this series anymore, after all, I disliked Freyja since the beginning and my opinion of her didn't improve after reading her story. <br />Alleyne is quite different, I think he is the only Bedwyn I have always liked, so maybe his story will be my favorite of the series. Wulfric needs a serious thawing to get me to like him even a little.	2004-01-24
US	31108057	R1IVSBRNXR7MPX	0451210646	542184409	Undone	Books	4	8	11	N	N	Very intense, dramatic and more than a little tragic.	I am always advocating for more drama in romance novels, so I didn't think I would say this, but this novel had too much drama. I just finished reading it and it has my emotions in turmoil. I would certainly recommend it, but beware, this is not a lighthearted, easy to read story, nor is your usual, uncomplicated romance. This book gets you emotionally involved, makes you lose sleep and throws your feelings into a whirlwind at times. I think for the first time since I started reading romance novels, I found one that made me unsure it would have a  happy ending.  The novel got so complicated and tragic at times that I really feared for their &quot;happily everafter&quot;.  <br />I just learned when I read the review in this page that this novel is loosely based on real facts. Maybe that explains some things that happened that I considered unnecesarilly tragic, like the death of someone towards the end of the book that made absolutely no sense to me, since it didn't contribute anything important to the main story and was a very sad event. I won't say who it is as to not spoil the surprise. You'll know who I'm talking about if you read the novel.<br />The one complain I have about this book is that it was too long. In fact the first one hundred pages or so, where so slow that I actually put it down 3 times and read other books before I finally decided to finish this one. In the end I'm glad that I read it completely, because after the first initial calm the book picks up the pace, but after that outburst, it slows down again after Elizabeth marries. Her married life took too much of the novel, and John Campbell, who was supossedly the other main character rather dissapears from the book for long periods of time, only appearing sporadically. During that time the story is only from Elizabeth point of view, and we don't know much about John. The novel was more about Elizabeth journey from an innocent little girl to a mature woman, and I felt that John was only slightly more important in the novel than the rest of the secondary characters. To put it in other words, if the novel was a movie we would probably be seeing more of the villain and the support cast than the hero. I really think that more than 400 pages of small print were not justified to tell the love story of this book. But then that is just my personal opinion.<br />This said, I can only add that if you are ready for a strongly emotional and intense novel, don't miss this one. If you are just looking for a light and fun read, &quot;Undone&quot; is not for you.	2004-01-18
US	31108057	R2A7AXJM9XJGYU	0440241065	475697120	Slightly Tempted (Bedwyn Saga)	Books	3	5	9	N	N	I was more than "slightly tempted" to not finish the book.	It took me 3 days to get through the first 50 pages of this book, when I usually read a whole novel in a day and a half when it is interesting. <br />I did not warm up to the story (and the main characters) until after the battle of Waterloo. Before that I thought Morgan to be a stupid little girl, too haughty and full of herself and too naive to realize that she didn't know anything about life. While I considered Gervase a dead bore, the way he talked was too theatrical and frankly ridiculous. His facial expressions seemed limited to \\"laugh with his eyes\\" and Morgan's to put his nose in the air and look down on everybody. I really was ready to put down the book and not finish it at all.<br />Fortunately after the battle the characters started to show some depth. Even though I'm not a big fan of finding war mixed with my romance novels, I have to admit that the scene during the battle was well written. You could feel the tension among the people who stayed behind in Brussels and their angst and worry about their loved ones who were taking part in the fight.  <br />The scenes that followed the battle were filled with drama and the romance between the main characters turned tender and poignant. Alleyne's dissapearance added to the emotional tension, although it would have been a more dramatic element if his story was not announced on the cover of this book, and a preview of his book was not included at the end of this novel. <br />Unfortunately after the novel moves back to England, the characters revert to their original behavior and start getting annoying again. Gervase became once more the carefree rake who didn't seem to take anything seriously, less of all his relationship with Morgan, and Morgan's actions stopped making sense.  His \\"scheme\\" to punish Gervase for using her to get revenge on her brother was ridiculous to say the least.<br />And what about the rest of the Bedwyns? I still can not totally like this family. To me they seem a bad imitation of Jo Beverley's \\"Mallorens\\", up to their names. Wulfric is always looking down on people and acting cold and hard and unfeeling, Mary Bologh tries to make him look formidable and awe-inspiring, but most of the time I find him ridiculous. I picture someone trying to look haughty and dignified while looking down at you with a quizzing glass and the image that comes to my  mind is laughable. This ridiculous affectation is a big turn off. To me Wulfric seems more like an old fashioned, 50 year old stickler than a romantic hero. He lacks sensuality. I don't know if I'm going to like him, even after I read his novel.  <br />The way the Bedwyns reacted to the news that his brother was dead was also unnatural. The only one who acted a little human was Aidan. Why do the Bedwyns feel they have to hide their grief over a dead brother from each other? That doesn't look to me like a close, functional family, specially when I compare them with the Mallorens. I know it is not fair to compare two different series, by two different authors, but it is impossible to miss the similarities and the comparission forms in my mind unconsciously.<br />My favorite of the Bedwyns so far is Alleyne. I hope I don't change my mind after reading his story.	2004-01-11
US	31108057	R3BCSYOOKEIT4I	0440226309	786066422	McClairen's Isle: The Ravishing One	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Not the best one of the series, but still very good.	The main problem that I had with this book was how long it took for things to start happening. What should have been the introduction, actually took half of the book. Up until Thomas &quot;abducts&quot; Fia nothing really had happened, and I was already tired of reading about Fia and Thomas day to day lives.<br />However, after the abduction, (or more accurately, the trip, since Thomas really didn't abduct Fia, she decided to go along with him), the pace of the novel increases and I could barely put down the book.<br />After reading other reviews that say there was an unexpected twist at the end that involved Gunna and Carr, I started thinking<BR>what would that be, and I'm happy to say it was what I thought. I also liked reading what was going on in Ash and Raine lives, and to see the reunion of the siblings.<br />However, since so much time had been wasted on the first part of the novel, where nothing happened, the sencond half was kind of rushed. I would have liked that more time was dedicated to the romance between Fia and Thomas. I somewhat felt that this book did not have the same poignant quality that characterized the previous ones of this series.<br />Maybe I had set too high expectations for this book and that is why I'm a little dissapointed, but in reality it was pretty good. However, my favorite is still &quot;The Passionate One&quot;	2004-01-04
US	31108057	R8RJPIICX7CQB	0312984863	950430890	The Impostor (The Liars Club, Book 2)	Books	4	7	10	N	N	A very enjoyable read, but a little rough around the edges.	I enjoyed this book tremendously! I don't remember ever laughing so much! Poor Dalton's costume was hilarious, and that was only one of many things. Celeste Bradley certainly has a talent for comedy. And I'm not really a big fan of &quot;funny&quot; romantic novels, I'm more the sentimental type, but the good thing is that this book has a lot of feeling too, and both things complement each other so nicely that I could barely put it down.<br />The main characters-Dalton and Clara- are fabulous.  Who would have thought that the cool and composed Lord Etheridge from &quot;The Pretender&quot; was so romantic and passionate inside. Clara was a surprise too. The quiet, self effacing widow was a reckless, corageous, impulsive, passionate and rather wild woman. <br />The reason I did not give this book 5 stars, despite having enjoyed it so much is because there were several things that did not make much sense. For example, why did Clara run away in panic when she found out that &quot;Monty&quot; was the same man that was posing as Sir Thorogood? I don't think her reasoning is very well explained or justified in the book. Also, as other reviewer mentioned, there were some loose ends regarding the spionage plot. Why was Lord Reardon following Dalton? Was he the one trying to kill him? Moreover, there was a very obvious chronological mistake. In 1813, the year this story takes place, the Prince Regent was 51 years old, having been born in 1762. The age of the Liars and Lord Reardon is never stated clearly, but one is given to understand that they are somewhere between late twenties-early thirties. If Lord Reardon was already born and at least 5 years of age when the Prince was 16, then he would be at least 40 at the time of this book, which would make Simon a little older than that, but that is not possible because I remember Simon saying in the previous book &quot;The Pretender&quot;, which take place in the same year as this one, that he hadn't been a boy for 15 years. If hewere in his early forties, that would mean he was a boy until his late twenties, and that doesn't make sense. I don't know if I'm making myself clear, but I can't say much without giving away the story. If you have read this book and &quot;The Pretender&quot;, you probably know what I'm talking about.<br />I think the editors, and the authors as well, should be more careful about this kind of mistakes. Sometimes I wonder why some really boring books are considered great literature, while the romance novels, which are much more entertaining and obviously take talent to write too, are looked down upon. And I think this is part of the reason.  I understand this genre is mostly commercial, and there are deadlines to meet, but the quality should not be sacrificed.<br />That said, I really think the book was very entertainning and will make you have a great time reading it. I certainly did.	2003-12-29
US	31108057	R26C3MVZ3ZJO9A	0312984596	170838457	Absolute Pleasure	Books	1	15	17	N	N	One of the worse books I've ever had the missfortune to read	I think this definitely does it for me. After this I won't be buying any more of Holt's books.<br />The \\"hero\\" was an insensitive, cruel, callous bastard, and as if this is not enough, a pimp. He seduces rich woman to swindle money out of them. Sorry, but after reading so many novels, that feature such wonderful heroes, I can't respect or like this one.<br />The heroine I think I could have liked, in a different book. In this one, all I could feel for her was pity.<br />Cheryl Holt has a very dislikable tendency to create male characters that behave in a completely and utterly dispicable way, but in the end, it is always the woman who comes back to him and seeks a reconciliation.<br />If you like books where the female characters are week and abused, and where women are treated like garbage, read this one.	2003-12-26
US	31108057	R1FIPADPOY4K6N	0312984855	462073235	The Pretender (Liars Club, Book 1)	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Great characters, great story...great book.	I usually don't like romance novels that are described as humorous, because that usually means ridiculous situations and absurd plots that don't make me laugh at all. I think this is the first romance novel written in this style that has made me laugh. And the best part is, it doesn't take away from the love story.<br />Agatha is incredible. She is smart, witty, independent and very stubborn, when she wants something she doesn't stop until she gets it, and this created some of the funniest scenes in the book. And she was hilarious! I mean, the way she could just spin a tale in a second! The only thing I found a little unbelievable and improbable was her ability with cards. Where would she have learned those tricks? You need to be a seasoned gambler, or at least have had a very good teacher to know how to shuffle cards like a pro and cheat. But aside from that little detail, her character was very believable and likeable.<br />Simon was great too. His character is not as original as Agatha's, he is more your usual romance hero, but he was ok.<br />The story had a little of everything, laughs, tears, sensuality, heartbreaking moments, action and suspense. Very entertaining. I will run to get the next book of this series &quot;The Impostor&quot;, since the preview looks very promising and I can't wait to read Dalton's story.	2003-12-26
US	31108057	R31E3U2W1XFN3C	0553585916	249728210	The Charmer (Seducer)	Books	4	2	4	N	N	A slow start, but the second half of the book was great.	Maybe I have great expectations regarding Madeline Hunter, and that's why I didn't give this book 5 stars. It was very good, but I didn't like it as much as &quot;The Saint&quot;, the previous book in this series.<br />I think the start of the book was a little slow. I could not point out the exact reason why I find it so, perhaps it is because there was too much politics, and that bored me a little, but I didn't find myself dragged into the book until almost half of it.<br />The second part, however, more than made up for that. It was filled with such poignant moments and heartbreaking  passion, that it captivated me, and I even dropped a tear or two.<br />Overall, the book was really good, I can't wait for &quot;The Sinner&quot; to come out. Fortunately I won't have to wait months or even years. It will come out in a few days, and I will run to get it, because the fragment of &quot;The Sinner&quot; that was included at the end of this book was very interesting.	2003-12-20
US	31108057	R32FOTOAE9FH0A	0380811065	920055797	Lady Sophia's Lover (Bow Street, Book 2)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	5 STARS DON'T DO JUSTICE TO THIS BOOK.	Wow! What a great novel! This book is in a category of its own. The hero, Sir Ross, is fantastic. I actually fell in love with him. What an incredible and unique character Lisa Kleypas has created! Strong, powerful, intelligent, understanding, kind, sexy, intense, passionate, faithful...the list goes on an on.<br />Sophia was a great heroine too. A sensible, caring and intelligent woman. Just what Ross needed.<br />The story is interesting and emotional. I liked the fact that although Sophia was originally looking for revenge, she was not so blinded by hate that she could not see the qualities of the man in front of her.<br />Contrary to what the detractors of this book say, the mystery was not obvious. I think that if I had not read \\"Worth Any Price\\" first I would not have guessed the true identity of Nick Gentry. And that scene when he reveals himself to Sophia brought tears to my eyes! The same as the scene when Sophia tells Ross that she is pregnant. His fear and love for her made my heart twist.<br />All the good things I can say about this book are not enough. I really don't know how some people didn't like it, and said that it can not compare to other Lisa Kleypas books. I have read many of them, and this is definitively one of the best, if not the best, followed closely by \\"Someone to Watch Over Me\\" and \\"Worth Any Price\\", the other books of this series, that I hope continues. Maybe we will see the story of Dr.Lindley next? This character has appeared throughout this series and has captured the attention of many readers. <br />I don't give praise lightly. Actually, I consider myself too harsh a critic sometimes. If you read my other reviews, you will notice that. But this book is excellent. I really recommend it. But make sure you have enough time to read, because if you are anything like me, you won't want to put it down.	2003-12-05
US	31108057	R1SH0HBYLFNHDW	0821775995	756239827	Forbidden (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Actually 4 1/2 stars.	Finally! A Rogue's book that is a real page-turner! And is ironic that it is the story of the Rogue that less impressed me of all when I first met him in \\"An Arranged Marriage\\". I have to admit that back then I didn't think Francis was hero material. I liked him a lot, but since in that book he is always described as very sensitive, poetic and of slight build, I found him a little too \\"delicate\\". After reading this book I'm happy to say that my preconceptions about him were totally wrong. Yes, he is sensitive, caring and kind, which makes him adorable, but he also has a backbone and it is every bit a Rogue, ready to take action if it is necessary and as formidable as his more dazzling friends Nicholas and Lucien.<br />Serena was very likeable too. I really felt for her. She really had a terrible life and very traumatic experiences in her first marriage and just when she thought that she would find some peace after her husband's death, her despicable brothers steal her money and plan to sell her again into an unwanted and even more terrible marriage.  She and Francis make a lovely couple, he is just the type of man she needs to make her get over the traumas of her first marriage.<br />Their interaction was believable and mature. As it is logical in their circumstamces, there were doubts and distrust on both parts at the beginning, but they always try to please each other and make the best of their situation. <br />The race scene was hilarious, and the plot was well thought and engaging.  There is a lot of sensuality in this book and also the wickedness that characterizes Beverley's Malloren series. My only complain, and the reason I didn't give this book 5 stars is that the last love scene, which is the most important of the book was kind of rushed and skimpily written. <br />The presence of the other Rogues is always a nice addition. They are all fantastic,  I couldn't pick my favorite, since all have characteristics that are extremely appealing. I wish we would seemore of Leander. Nicholas and Lucien we have seen in all of the Rogues books, but Leander was out of the country when An Arranged Marriage and An Unwilling Bride took place, and later on, on Con's story (The Dragon Bride) he doesn't appear either. It appears that Beverley does have her favorite Rogues (Nick and Luce) Also, I think it is time to bring the other Rogue we haven't heard much about-Simon St.Bride- from Canada, so that we get to know him a little before we read his story.<br />All in all, I can say that I enjoyed this book immensely. So far it is definitively my favorite of the Rogue's series. Of course, I haven't read Miles' story (Dangerous Joy) yet, since it is out of print, but I will a soon as it is re-issued, which fortunately will be soon.<br />Well done this time, Jo Beverly!	2003-12-02
US	31108057	RAVEAVK4MQ219	0451205804	923981954	Hazard	Books	2	9	12	N	N	Incredibly boring and flat. I'm very dissapointed.	Every time I start to read one of JB books, I do it with great expectations. But so far, her Regency books have been unimpressive. Where is the magic of the Malloren books? Where are the magnetic characters, the interesting storylines, and the sensuality that all the Malloren books possess?<br />This book is really boring. The main characters barely interact during the whole novel. To me, their feelings for each other seemed more like infatuation than true love. They shared a kiss, interchanged some witticisms, and suddenly they were madly in love! What did they know about each other, about their past, their likes and dislikes, their ambitions in life?  For the most part the book was about Anne trying to find a suitable husband and trying to forget about Race, and Race trying to avoid Anne. <br />Another thing not working for this book was that I don't consider Race hero material, and it is not because of his lack of fortune or pedigree. It is because he seems to me like a very impractical person with no real direction in his life. Oh, he is charming, intelligent, and really good with people, he reminded me a little of Nicholas Delaney. I did not dislike him; he had his moments, but for the most part was eclipsed by St.Raven. And I hate it when the hero is eclipsed by another character in the book.<br />For her part, Lady Anne was a very unexceptional heroine; she is kind of dull and easily forgotten, to the point that you don't care whom she marries, just that she gets it over with.<br />The back cover of the book says that you have never met a hero and heroine like Race de Vere and Lady Ann Peckworth, and it is true. Jo Beverley always tries to create characters that are a little different to what you usually encounter on romance novels, sometimes even pushing the boundaries of what is &quot;acceptable&quot;, that is good, but this time I think she really went a little too far.<br />And one more thing. The book lacks sensuality. It only has one love scene that wasvery brief and boring.  That, added to a not very interesting plot makes for a tedious novel. I really see no purpose on reading it. One reviewer said that this book only serves to introduce St.Raven, and I think it is true. That is a much better book. In fact the best of the Regency ones written by Jo Beverley that I have read so far. Try that one instead, and save your money on this one. They are part of a series, but you don't need to have read the other books to enjoy St.Raven. In fact I read it before any of the others, and I didn't even guess it was part of a series.	2003-11-21
US	31108057	RU1G8E81XQC0G	0553585908	329605277	The Saint (Seducer)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	This series just keep getting better and better.	I enjoyed this book, (the second in the series) even more than &quot;The Seducer&quot; if that is even possible.<br />I love Vergil's type. Quiet, proper and dispassionate on the outside, but smolderingly sensual and passionate in the inside. It shows you that appearances can be deceiving and the contrast between what he appears to be and what he really is makes for a nice surprise and is incredibly appealing.<br />This book is intelligent and well thought. It actually has one of the best conversations about the reasons to marry (or not) that I have found in a romance novel. In other novels I have gotten really annoyed when the heroine refuses to marry the hero (or viceversa) for no good reason, when it is obvious that they are head over heels in love with each other. In this book, for the first time, I have read an intelligent discussion about the subject.  She really loves him, but she wants to pursue her career, and he is not willing to permit it, moreover, she is not totally convinced that he is not pursuing her (at least in part) for her money, so she tells him that she needs some time to think things through, and he accepts this. The character really acted like adult people, which is not usual and that impressed me.<br />I once mentioned in another of my reviews that if I could put together Stephanie Laurens' incredibly sensual love scenes, with Jo Beverley's interesting plots and Judith McNaught gift for creating emotionally charged, heart wrenching scenes, I would have the perfect romantic novel. Well, this book is it.<br />I literally could not put it down. Madeline Hunter has made herself  one of my favorite authors with this novel. And it is only the second one I read from her. I just hope she keeps writing about the Regency period since I'm not really into Medieval Romances. But according to the reviews those are very good too, so I might give them a try.<br />Please, don't miss this series. If you are tired of the silly romance novels out there and wantto read something really good.	2003-11-18
US	31108057	RMYW4UVAQ1IRT	0380802309	753418941	Someone to Watch Over Me (Bow Street, Book 1)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Great novel. I enjoyed it very much.	The plot was interesting. Contrary to what other reviewers have written, it was not predictable. Yes, you knew she couldn't be Vivien, both by the way she acts and also, by the fact that if she were she would be an impossible to like heroine, but that doesn't make it less interesting. You still wonder who is she. How she came to be in London, what is her relationship with the actual Vivien, where the real Vivien is. <br />I liked Grant very much. He is so strong, protective and seems so invincible, and at the same time is tender, loving, and vulnerable. I loved the fact that he started to fall in love with her even against his best judgement, when he still thought that she was Vivien. And I liked her because she was so sweet, and brave in a tender sort of way.  She was in such a difficult situation. I really felt how distressing it must be not to remember who you are, or where you come from, especially if there is someone trying to kill you!<br />I also liked that Vivien (the real Vivien) was not a one-dimensional character, the typical villain that doesn't have a good bone in her body. Yes, she is selfish and amoral, but she really loves her sister. I think that makes for a much more believable character, since I tend to be skeptical about the &quot;all bad&quot; villains.<br />The love scenes were romantic and sensual and their interaction is always charged with feeling. You can actually feel the electricity between them.<br />So, Interesting Plot + Likeable characters + Strong Sensuality = Great book. I really recommend it.<br />Now I can't wait to read &quot;Lady Sophia's Lover&quot; since I was very intrigued by the mysterious Ross Cannon.	2003-11-18
US	31108057	R3O2Z4H8BYBR9S	0553585894	686260074	The Seducer	Books	5	1	3	N	N	First book from Hunter I've read and I'm impressed.	I don't know how so many reviewers rated this book so poorly, when I saw that the average customer review was 3 stars I couldn't believe it. This novel is actually very good. I read a lot of regency romance novels and have come across some really bad ones, so I recognize quality when I see it, and this is definitively it.<br />The plot had everything; an interesting mystery (one that you actually couldn't guess from the start), intense emotions, appealing characters, and lots of sensuality. What more can you ask for? This is the whole package!<br />I only came across one mistake. The form of address of the villain. I he is the second son of a Marquess, he would be &quot;Lord Name-Lastname&quot; not &quot;Mr. Lastname&quot;. But this is a very small mistake, and in no way affects the enjoyment of this book.<br />I found the book very entertaining, and would recommend it to everybody. I'm already reading &quot;The Saint&quot; and so far, I'm enjoying it too. If it continues this way this author will go to the list of my favorites. <br />I only have one complain. Apparently the series will end with &quot;The Sinner&quot; Dante's story, and I think there are lots of interesting secondary characters in this novel that deserve their own book. Like Penelope and Mr.Hampton. I sensed something there, in the way he stood up for her. Maybe her despicable husband can die, so that they can have their story? Please don't end this series with Dante's story!	2003-11-14
US	31108057	R2MX862J6KUFOH	0060514116	763055097	The Pleasure of Her Kiss (Avon Romantic Treasures)	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Likeable characters but bland story.	I don't think the characters (Jared and Kate) were unlikable. She is intelligent, independent, generous and compassionate, and unlike so many other heroines, she is not either fighting the hero over nothing during the whole book, or swooning at his feet as soon as he kisses her. She just knows what she wants and although she is very attracted to him, she won't surrender until she can be sure there is solid ground to build a relationship on.<br />Jared is likeable too, he had a hard childhood that has left him emotionally scarred, but he is honorable, compassionate, protective and sensitive, even if that is not apparent from the beginning. But when he held the orphan baby they had saved against his body to warm her, it melted my heart.<br />What is the problem then? Why did I not rate this book with 5 stars? Well, for one thing, the story was slow, and there was not much romance in it. It was more about the orphans and Kate's efforts to save the children.  What should have been the background of the story (the potato famine in Ireland, and the starving children) became the foreground, mixed in with some romance.<br />I applaud Kate's efforts to help the starving children, but as admirable as the enterprise is, that is not what I want a romance novel to be about.<br />And what about the ending? I don't think it was satisfactory at all. Jared agrees to join in Kate's scheme to help the children, which is illegal, so he is risking everything he has worked so hard for and even his life, if he gets caught. I wouldn't suggest that they abandon the children to their fates, but if Jared was the advisor of the queen, maybe he could have gotten her to help with the situation in Ireland, instead of becoming an outlaw. I guess the story will continue in the sequels with Jared friends, Drew and Ross, but I hate to have to read another book to see the conclusion of a story started in this one. I think it's just a marketing strategy to make you buy the other books and I consider this a cheap trick.<br />Another thing that was exaggerated was the total &quot;re-decoration&quot; Kate did of the Hawkesly state house. When I first read about the condition of the house, I though she was housing at least a hundred orphans. When I found out it was only 9 children I wanted to laugh. It is not necessary to convert a house like that into an orphanage dormitory to house 9 children. They would have fit in the nurseries! Even if they didn't, I'm sure the house had more than 9 spare bedrooms, since in one of the passages it says that the house has more than a hundred rooms.<br />Another thing that is debatable is how Jared got to his actual position of Earl and advisor of the Queen. How an orphan escaped from a workhouse would even be in a position to meet the Queen of England, much less give her financial advice? Please! <br />As you can see, the story has too many holes and inadequacies.  The book is not the worst I have read, but I wouldn't recommend it either.	2003-11-09
US	31108057	RE52YAGAK44W8	0451210654	801353308	Winter Fire	Books	4	11	13	N	N	Not what I expected. But still very good.	In many senses, this book was not what I expected when I first learned that Jo Beverley was going to write another Malloren novel. <br />For one thing, I had expected, or rather would have wished, for the story to take place at least a couple of years after the end of &quot;Devilish&quot;. Since the whole issue in that book was the fear of Rothgar of getting married and having children, I would have wanted to see him and Diana happily married after a few years and with at least one child. I wanted to see him free of his demons and as the wonderful father I know he could be. But then I had also expected Winter Fire to be the last of the Malloren books, obviously, it won't be so, so maybe in the next, we will see Rothgar as a happy father.<br />Another thing that dissapointed me a little was that the book was rather short. I can never get enough of the Mallorens. <br />I also found Diana in this book a little haughy and cool. Specially at the beginning. I was hoping to find the spirited woman that I remembered from &quot;Devilish&quot;, but instead she was every inch the countess except for the few moments when she interacted with Bey, but there weren't many of those.<br />About the main characters-Ashart and Genova-I liked them, but they were not as unforgatable as the Mallorens. Maybe because this book was more like a family reunion that a real romance novel. There was romance, don't misunderstand me, but sometimes I felt that the main characters were eclipsed by the Malloren family. The story takes place almost completely at Rothgar Abbey, during Christmas, and I think that in a way the problems between the Mallorens and the Trayces took precedence over the romance.<br />And one last thing, please Jo Beverley, include more love scenes in your novels. I'm not saying that the book should be about this only, but it certainly spices things up a little. And only one, almost at the end of the book is not enough. Sometimes I think that if I could mix together Stephanie Laurens hot love scenes with Jo Beverley's interesting plots and some of Judith MacNaught emotionally charged scenes I would have the perfect romance novel.<br />But in spite of all this, I enjoyed the book very much. The dialogues were witty and charged, the book was well written and it is always nice to meet again old friends like the Mallorens. May there be many more books about them!	2003-11-01
US	31108057	RNJ4OJ16CQFJ3	0821764012	69516189	An Arranged Marriage (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	3	115	125	N	N	What was Jo Beverley thinking?	I so hate it when characters that have a great potential are used in a less than satisfactory plot! That's what happened with this novel. <br />I could have loved Nicholas. He is so warm and lighthearted and at the same time wise and responsible. He has one of the most magnetic and fascinating personalities I have encountered in romance novel heroes. He is a natural leader and the best friend one can hope for. But the way he acts in this story denies all that. That is why I was so frustrated with this book.<br />I understand the fact that he owed no loyalty to Eleanor, and he couldn't be expected to drop everything for her, since he only married her to save her from a difficult situation created by their brothers, but even so, I could not justify or understand his actions.<br />I think what bothered me most was his ambivalence. If he wasn't in love with his wife, I could have understood what he did. But to betray and hurt her \\"for his country\\", when he was desperately in love with her and despised his mistress is hard to digest, to say the least.<br />What is more, he betrayed more than his wife with his actions, he betrayed himself. He prostituted himself due to some misguided sense of duty, and that made me loose my respect for him. There had to be other ways for the government to obtain the information they were seeking. By the way, if he was so repulsed by his mistress, how could he keep sleeping with her? How could he even \\"perform\\"? This suggests the idea men are only animals, capable of getting aroused by a beautiful and skillful woman, even if they despise her. Maybe this is true for some men, but is not a trait I would like in a romance novel hero.<br />And to top it off, all his \\"efforts\\" were for nothing, because the treasonous plot he was trying to uncover turned out to be a hoax devised by Therese (his mistress) to swindle money out Napoleon sympathizers and to get back at him for rejecting her in the past.<br />One more thing, where is all that sexualskill this book mentions so often he posseses? The only two times he slept with his wife were rather boring, and one of those times he didn't even concern himself with giving her pleasure. Does that sound like a great lover to you?<br />This is the first romance novel I have read in which the villains win, and the hero is made to look like an idiot. Reading the next \\"Rogues\\" books, one finds that the villains get what they deserve, but I think one shouldn't have to read another book, to see the conclusion of a story started in this one....All in all, I think this novel was a great waste of great characters, and a waste of my time.	2003-11-01
US	31108057	R2MEP3BLGSJJK	0380781441	752518922	Because You're Mine	Books	4	16	17	N	N	It had it's flaws, but still a very enjoyable book.	I had seen this book before and never felt compelled to buy it, for some reason I didn't think an actor would make a very good romance novel hero. But after I met Logan in &quot;Somewhere I'll find you&quot;, I was fascinated by him and had to read his story. <br />The reason I didn't rate this book with 5 stars is because I got really annoyed with the way Logan treats Madeline after he finds out about her little secret.<br />The fact that at first she only tried to seduce him to escape an unwanted marriage does not by far justifies the way he reacted when he found out. After all, he knew all along that she was hiding something, and her secret is not nearly bad enough for him to go into such a temper tantrum and feel so &quot;betrayed&quot;. Besides, Maddy had given him ample prove that she really cared about him. She nursed him day and night when he was sick, risking getting sick herself and barely sleeping or eating to be with him. In return he treats her abominably for no apparent good reason. At the end the author tries to explain the reason for this (is not what we originally think), but this doesn't make much sense either. <br />I also found a little exagerated at the beginning of the book, the way he is in a constant state of arousal since the first time he sets eyes on Madeline.<br />On the other hand, the book is entertaining, the love scenes are hot, and Logan, despite his temper and his intransigence is fascinating. Contradictory, isn't it? He is bossy, rude, controlling, with a devil of a temper, and at the same time, he is so sweet, tender, passionate and just lovable. He is one of those romance heroes I wish were real. The scene when he first makes love to Madeline melted my heart. That's why I was so annoyed by the way he acted afterward.<br />But all in all, this is a very good book, I would definitevely recommend it. Lisa Kleypas is rapidly becoming one of my favorite authors.	2003-10-26
US	31108057	R273C5FOUY1G0L	0060002077	647810240	A Gentleman's Honor (Bastion Club)	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Sizzling hot sex scenes. Lukewarm plot.	Stephanie Laurens keeps concentrating more on the sex scenes than in the actual plot of her novels. I don't have anything against the sex scenes, actually, I think she writes some of the best ones in the genre, but they would be much better if they complemented a strong plot, instead of just being the plot.<br />The intrigue was entertaining enough, nothing too deep, but I wasn't expecting that, after all this is a romance novel, not a mistery one, but the problem is that there is not any other plot in the novel. There is no conflict between the main characters, no emotional tension, no heart wrenching separation, no fear of loss, not even a small misunderstanding that would cause a rift between them. The only problem to work out was catching the killer of Ruskin. Other than that, there was only the sex scenes to keep the book going.<br />I'm not saying that the book was bad. Stephanie Laurens is a great writer, and the book is amusing, but I know it could be better, I know this author could give much more. Her heroes are delightful, without exception, I just know that if she spent more time in the relationship between the hero and heroine, she could create a great novel. <br />One thing I did like about this book, is the presence of characters we know from her other novels. I hope the Cynsters continue to appear throughout this series, and maybe even have a bigger role, like Jack Hendon had in this book. I'm thinking he is from the book &quot;Captain Jack's Woman&quot;. I haven't read it yet, since other experiences I have had with Laurens' pre-Cynsters books are not good, but now I think I might go and read it. <br />And there is Dalziel. This character gets more interesting by the minute. He really reminds me of the Marquess of Rothgar, from Jo Beverley's Malloren series. I would like to read his story soon, but I realize it may be some time before it is released, since probably all the Bastion Club members have to come first, and now Laurens is going back to theCynster series with the story of Michael, Honoria's brother from &quot;Devil's Bride&quot;. This I don't understand. Why writting the story of Michael while in the middle of another series? He is a likeable character, but not one that was screaming for his story.<br />Anyway, if you are a big fan of Stephanie Laurens, and enjoyed the Cynsters books, you probably will like this one too. I will certainly continue to read her novels, as they are better that most of the stuff out there.	2003-10-12
US	31108057	R23OKYETFN2WHU	0440234573	380006360	Midnight Pleasures (The Pleasures Trilogy)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	A Pleasurable Read, but not as good as the first one.	I have to agree with several other reviewers that said that this book was not as good as &quot;Potent Pleasures&quot;. I loved &quot;Potent Pleasures&quot;,and was really looking forward to read this book, since Eloisa James books are usually very enjoyable. The problem with this book is that most of the misunderstandings between Patrick and Sophie are just stupid.<BR>An example is that Patrick hears Sophie breaking up her engagement with Slaslow (or so she thought), he hears her saying that she doesn't feel anything for Slaslow, and that she doesn't want to marry him, however, later in the book he is consumed with jealousy thinking that Sophie is in love with Slaslow, and that if it weren't for his interference she would be happily married to him. That doesn't make any sense. On the other hand, why did Sophie hide from him the true nature of her outings with Slaslow? I don't think any husband would be happy allowing his wife to go out with another man every week without at least an explanation. This is a perfect example of doing good deeds and making them look bad. <BR>Another thing, when Sophie gets pregnant she refuses to be intimate with Patrick, (for no good reason that I can think of), then she complains that he doesn't seek her out, and thinks that he is with his mistress. Although, I have to admit it, he acts really weird too, what the hell is he doing walking the streets all night? Are we supossed to believe this? This behavior is quite unbelievable.<BR>The beginning of the book was very good, towards the end it gets on track again, but in between, the book is full of such nonsensical stuff that sometimes I found myself rolling my eyes in exasperation. This book really could have used a little more work on the plot.<BR>I know this doesn't sound like a 4 star review, but really the book is not that bad, if you can bear with the silly misunderstandings the book is entertaining. The main characters (when not behaving like fools) are really likeable. It was just not up to the expectations I had after reading &quot;Potent Pleasures&quot;. But still better than most. This is definitively an author I will continue reading.	2003-10-11
US	31108057	RE1G0UKBFAFSI	0505520605	309588255	Yesterday & Forever	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Laughs and tears in a very amusing package.	This is the first time-travel novel I have ever read. As a Regency Romance avid reader, I have been wondering for a while what would happen if a 21st century woman was dumped into 19th century England. Yesterday &amp; Forever was the answer to my questions, and much more.<BR>To use one of Maggies own frases, this book had me in an emotional roller coaster all the time. I laughed, I felt sad for their imposible love and the ending (although a happy one) had me weeping like no other book before.<BR>The only criticism I have for this book is that I think the author exagerated a little with the use of slang in Maggie's speech. It is not necessary to fill every sentence that falls from her mouth with curses and improper language to convey the idea that she is from this century. Also, at the beginning it was a little annoying the way Maggie was always fighting with Adam over anything, and calling him names like &quot;male chauvinistic pig&quot;. I think it was most undeserved, since Adam was nothing but kind and a perfect gentleman with her and also was offering her his hospitality.<BR>But this is not enough to spoil the enjoyment of a book that is otherwise just...wonderful.	2003-10-04
US	31108057	ROCLS625CP591	0440234565	319506287	Potent Pleasures (The Pleasures Trilogy)	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Simply wonderful. A page turner.	At first I was a little discouraged to buy this book, after reading so many bad reviews, pointing to errors and historical inaccuracy. At the end I decided to buy it based on one reviewer that explained that those errors were only on the hard cover edition, not in the soft cover. Besides, I had already read &quot;Enchanting Pleasures&quot;, the third novel in this series, and found it pretty decent. So I decided to take a risk with this one. I'm so glad I did!<BR>This is one of the best novels I have read in a while!<BR>It reminded me somewhat of Judith McNaught's &quot;Something Wonderful&quot;, a novel and a writer that I love.<BR>The story is full of passion, love, misunderstanding, jealousy, regrets, and forgiveness. What more can you ask for in a romance novel?<BR>The only error I found is that in one part of the book I read that Charlotte's brother is 25 years old, and in another part, it says that, 3 years later, her mother (who apparently, since there is no mention of a previous marriage, is also his mother)is 41. By that math, she must have had him when she was 13! Not physically impossible maybe, but very improbable. <BR>But that is a very minor mistake, I only noticed it because by coincidence, I had been wondering how old Charlotte's mother would be, since she appeared to be still young, and fun loving and understanding. I had calculated that she must be around 46 at least, based on Charlotte's brother's age. So I was surprised when I read that she was 41.<BR>But this doesn't take away from a story that is heart-wrenchingly beautiful.<BR>If you like a good romance, in the Judith McNaught style, I really recommend this book.	2003-10-04
US	31108057	R170P5U26C56JA	0451203585	754656703	The Dragon's Bride (Historical Romance, Signet)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Not one of her best, but still better than most.	All of Jo Beverley's books I have read so far distinguish themselves from the rest for their originallity and the quality of their writting. This is not an exception, that's why I'm giving this book 3 stars. I would give it 3 1/2 stars if it was possible, but I don't think it deserves 4 stars. Beverley is really a talented writer, but in my opinion this is not one of her best efforts.<BR>The first half was really good, it was full of deep feelings, regrets, suppressed love and sexual tension. Those are always ingredients that make me enjoy a romance novel. But afterward I could not understand the reasons that kept them appart (his half commitment to Lady Anne, who is not even in love with him) To think that they would have actually forsake their love just to avoid her some dissapointment really annoyed me, because it would have been unfair to all the parts involved, including Lady Anne, who deserves better than a husband who is in love with another woman. It also denies the deep love and need that up until then I believed they felt for each other, because if that were the case, how could they calmly resign themselves to part and walk away from each other? This was the first flaw I found in the book.<BR>The other one was that the only love scene between them (although passionate) is marred by lies and misunderstandings. The book really needed at least another love scene, one that would not have come about after he treated her like a whore and she permitted it, instead of being properly offended and hurt and setting him straight. <BR>I would have preferred the first time they made love after so many years apart, to be more tender, more spiritual, like the coming together of two parts of a whole, the reunion of soulmates. Because that's what they are. There was nothing really wrong with the love scene, just with the events that led up to it.<BR>And one more thing, although this is only my personnal preference, Jo Beverley seems to think that the ability to kill (and actually having done it) makes her heroes more desirable. I'm really not crazy about soldiers, or ex-soldiers or men that kill as if it was not a big deal. That was one of my few complaints about \\"My Lady Notorious\\" (Cyn Malloren story) and \\"Devilish\\" (his brother, the Marquess of Rothgar story)from the Malloren series.<BR>But except for the above mentioned issues, the book is still quite good. Just not up to the high standards I expect from Jo Beverley after reading the Malloren series.	2003-09-27
US	31108057	R2Q50AX7IZQFSC	0380809168	580833959	Reforming a Rake (With This Ring, Book 1)	Books	2	21	26	N	N	Actually, 1 1/2 stars. l gave it 2 for Lucien.	This is the 3rd book I read from this author, and 2 of them have had the same problem, at least for me. <BR>The book started out fine, I was caught up and having a lot of fun. Lucien was so charmingly rude, (if such a thing exist) that had me laughing all the time. I loved the way he makes fun of his aunt and cousin, and the way he always says exactly what he thinks, no matter who might get offended. Alexandra seemed like an intelligent, sensible and likeable person, at least until about half of the book.<BR>When did things start to go completely wrong? When Lucien proposes marriage and she starts rejecting him for reasons that I didn't find valid at all. I totally agree with another reviewer (Fani) who said that she is the most ungrateful, selfish female ever. He does everything he can to prove his love for her, actually, half of what he did should have been prove enough for any sensible woman, and melt her heart in the process, but she keeps stubbornly rejecting him. All because when her parents died, an uncle that she had never met before, refused to love and protect her and she had to make her way on the world by herself, therefore, she is now incapable of accepting  anyone's love or protection. Doesn't it sound stupid?<BR>This ruined the entire second half of the book for me, which is a shame, because I had started liking it a lot. <BR>Some other reviewers have mentioned mistakes regarding the time period and the use of french, however nobody has mentioned what I think is the most glaring mistake of this book. Apparently, Lucien has to marry and produce an heir, or otherwise his cousin Rose's future child will inherit his title and estates. Wait a minute! Rose is his cousin on his mother's side. She is the daughter of his mother's half brother. I admit I'm not an expert in the matter, but I am an avid reader of Regency romance novels and it is my understanding that in England titles are passed only through the paternal line. If he doesn't produce an heir, and there are no other male relatives on his father's side of the family, then at his death, his title and estates will revert to the crown, but Rose's family would never be in line to inherit. Even if he had had a sister, daughter of his father, the previous Earl, such sister offspring would never inherit either, unless there was a very rare clause on the title that would allow a female [direct descendant] to assume the title in case there was not a male child. I have never heard of the title going to the in-laws, which is what Rose's father became to the previous Earl by way of his sister's marriage. In short, if it is not a male with the same last name as the Earls, it is not in line for the title. <BR>This mistake is so noticeable, that I'm amazed it got pass the editor, and that none of the other readers mentioned it either. I could have ignored it, if the plot had stayed interesting and amusing, but this, together with a heroine so exasperating that I felt like shaking her, and a story totally lacking in originality made me want to trow the book across the room and growl in frustration.<BR>Now the question is, should I give Suzanne Enoch another chance? I like her heroes a lot, but so far, have disliked 2 out of 3 heroines. I like the first half of her books, but have completely disliked the second half of 2 out of 3 books. That is the problem, if it were all bad, I wouldn't have any doubts about ever buying another of her books. But since she has managed to catch my attention in some ocassions, I keep thinking she has the talent to write a good book that I would enjoy in its entirety.	2003-09-24
US	31108057	RKAFXZP4IZMUV	0060002069	774889342	The Lady Chosen (Bastion Club)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Good read overall, but it needed more emotional tension.	This book follows the same format that the Cynsters series. There is nothing wrong with that, I loved the Cynsters, but the formula of the strong, independent woman who doesn't want to get married, even when she is head over heels in love with the hero, and the &quot;always perfect&quot;, confident alfa male needs some renovations, because it is getting a little old.<BR>I think the book needed some more drama, more conflict between the main characters. Other than her refusal to marry him, and him trying to convince her, there was no real emotional conflict. No misunderstanding, no longing, nothing to keep them apart, nothing that would melt your heart.<BR>The best parts of the book for me were the love scenes (this are always hot, in the true Stephanie Laurens style), the brief appearance of Devil Cynster (I hope the rest of the Cynsters continue to appear in this new series), and the scenes were Dalziel appears. I think he is a character with a lot of potencial. He reminds me of Jo Beverley's Rothgar. I would like to read his story. He seems to be a misterious and fascinating character.<BR>All considered the book was not bad, it is well written and believable. Maybe it's just that I expected more of one of my favorite authors.	2003-09-20
US	31108057	RR8LO5PGR54IG	0060508116	734187538	Fool for Love (Duchess in Love)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	The Secondary Characters Stole the Show.	I know I'm not the first one to mention this, it seems everybody agrees that Esme and Sebastian need their own book. I just love Sebastian. He is not your usual romance hero,(maybe that's the reason he is not the principal character in this book, they are &quot;testing&quot; to see how well the readers respond to him) Well never fear, he is one of the most attractive characters I have encountered. I can't wait to read how their story ends up. <BR>Hopefully it will be in the next Eloisa James novel, and I also hope Esme and Sebastian are the leading couple in that book, and not again the secondary characters. They really deserve center stage.<br />About the principal characters in this novel, I have to say that it took me about half the book to start liking Simon. To be honest, he seemed a little affeminate to me. Regardless of the constant assurances that he was not, the facts said otherwise.<BR>Also, I don't see the point, nor agree to the plot that Esme and Henrietta concocted to force Simon into marriage. It seems to me that an open conversation would have been more effective, honest and simpler. Another thing I don't understand is Henrietta's refusal to see a doctor in London. Given that she really wished to have children, I would have thought that she would be more willing to find a solution to her problem, if there was one.<br />But appart from this things, I really enjoyed the book. It was well written, emotional, funny and overall a page turner.<BR>Now I only expect the next novel about Esme and Sebastian won't keep us waiting too long.	2003-09-20
US	31108057	R376U0MSI4O9LQ	0380820897	431997179	One Night of Passion (Avon Romantic Treasure)	Books	2	3	5	N	N	Unappealing heroine and tiresome, long scenes.	I didn't have great expectations for this book, having read 2 other Elizabeth Boyle books before. And the book was just what I expected: nothing great. Now I'm really sorry I bought the whole series, that will teach me not to buy several books of an author I've never read before.<BR>I did not like Georgie much, first, I think when she dressed up like a Cyprian to attend that ball, she got too much into the character, because she acted like a real doxy. Colin kept rejecting her advances and she kept offering herself shamelessly. Ok, I know she was desperate to loose her virginity to avoid an undesirable marriage, and that Colin was the best option, but really! Just the fact that she went to such an event as the Cyprians Ball by herself with the intention of loosing her virginity is a little unbelievable. She could just have refused to marry, not even a guardian could force an unwilling woman to marry. I also think the Cyprians Ball scene was way too long. It almost takes half of the book! It really got tiresome and boring after a while, it could have been compressed a little.<BR>Moving on in the book, I really did not like the way she treats Colin when they finally meet again. The fact that she finds out that he is Lord Danvers, her guardian, does not justifies all her hostility towards him, specially when he has proved to her time after time that he is an honorable and trustworthy man. The least she could have done is confront him and hear his explanation, but again, there is that absurd lack of communication that seems to be the norm in Elizabeth Boyle's books. And when I was finally warming up to her, there is that part when she discovers he was engaged to marry before meeting her that night at the Cyprians Ball, and she goes into a fit because of it. That was before he met her! It has nothing to do with her! I think she really overracted.<BR>I'm going to read &quot;Stealing the Bride&quot; because unfortunately I already bought it, but I'm not buying any other books by Elizabeth Boyle. Really, I've had enough!	2003-09-06
US	31108057	R38X4YQZH16RC2	0380815354	234046856	Once Tempted	Books	3	9	11	N	N	More an adventure book than a romance novel.	I guess this book is fine if you are looking for adventure more than romance. Don't misunderstand me, the book had romance, but I felt like the principal theme was the war, the mission to recover the treasure and the intrigue, with romance added like an afterthought. <BR>It really got tiresome how Robert and Olivia could not trust each other or even communicate. All the conflicts between them could have been solved if they had simply talked to each other. And why was Robert always so ready to assume the worst about Olivia? Even when the evidence pointed to the contrary? It only took his brothers a moment to figure out she wasn't the killer of Orlando. And why was Olivia always trying to run away from him? She was wanted for murder, and under the circumstances Robert was the only protection she had. Where would she had gone, had she scaped from him?<BR>And don't get me started on the improbability of two cousins looking so alike that everybody would mistake one for the other. They would have to be twins to be so alike!<BR>In general, I really don't like to see war mixed with romance. Military men don't make my favorite heroes, nor does war and killing my favorite setting for a romance novel, and I think maybe that's why this novel is not memorable for me. The epilogue was my favorite part of the book, although I pity Olivia. Four children in four years of marriage, all this while living in a campsite while her husband did war? Poor woman!<BR>All in all, the book was not bad, just not my favorite kind.	2003-09-06
US	31108057	R1M0377SRWOII4	0380820838	493470499	London's Perfect Scoundrel (Lessons in Love, Book 2)	Books	3	14	17	N	N	Started out well, but had a dissapointing ending.	The book started out well. The contrast between the good and noble heroine and the shameless hero was interesting, because even though at first sight it appeared that they had nothing in common, they attracted each other.<BR>The author created a hero that really lived up to the adjective of scoundrel, unlike so many other romance heroes that are called that but in fact are more honorable than most men, St.Aubyn was really a scoundrel, shameless, selfish,  manipulative, deceitful and full of bad intentions. I think he totally deserved what Evelyn did to him (and I'm not going to say what as to not ruin the surprise)  however, in spite of that, I still liked him from the start (I guess it is the so called allure of a bad boy)<BR>Evelyn was also very likeable at the beginning, but by the end I wanted to shake her for being so stupid. That's where the book lost its appeal to me. I just can't stand a person that is so \\"good\\" that allows others to take advantage of her in the worse possible way, even knowing she is being taken advantage of.<BR>I read other reviewers also complained about this, I too, would have liked Evelyn to stand up to her despicable brother. Contrary to what she believes, I do not think her brother deserved a possition in the government. A man who is so selfish, ruthless and inconsiderate with his own family, does not make a good representative of the people. He has all the characteristics of a corrupt politician. The fact that at the end he got what he wanted by manipulating his sister and St.Aubyn is disgusting and quite ruined the book for me. I wanted him to get punished for his horrible behavior and treatment of his sister.<BR>Another thing I think this book needed was another love scene. The 2 it has are ok, but insuficient. It is not that I'm looking for porno in a romance novel, but I would have liked to see them in a proper bed for a change, or at least in a proper bedroom!<BR>I think a good opportunity was lost when he breaks into her houseand visits her in her bedchamber where she was being held prisioner by her brother. What happened there instead (her refusing to leave with him because of her worthless brother) made my blood boil with outrage and exasperation.<BR>All in all, the book had the potential to be a 4 or even 5 stars, but the way it ended was a real dissapointment.	2003-09-03
US	31108057	R26TRHVJ4FC6SZ	0060513640	301232992	One Night of Scandal (Fairleigh Sisters)	Books	2	30	51	N	N	Plot more suitable for a kids movie than for a romance novel	There are so many things that are wrong with this book that I don't know how I am the first one to give it a bad review.<br />First: I have trouble believing that a young lady in the night of her debut, with only minutes before the party starts, dressed in her finest, would go climbing out of her bedroom window and trespass into another property just to get a peek at a man that all society comments is a murderer. If by a stretch of the imagination I believe it, there are only two words I can think of to describe such female: foolish and childish. Not a good start.<br />Second: A Ghost...?! No comments necessary here.<br />Third: The fact that Hayden would stop having relations with his first wife because he didn't want to get her with child again, and, more astonishing, that he would not get a mistress in all that time is very hard to believe. I have read other books that take place in the same time period or even before, and there seemed to be knowledge of some methods to control pregnancy, other than abstinence. Furthermore, did he plan to go on like this his whole life? What if Justine had not died? Do the author really expects us to believe that a man in his twenties, suposedly passionate and in love with his wife would stand this situation for 6 years, and then 4 more after she died? He must have a very strong will or a very weak sexual drive.<br />Fourth: I'm really no a stickler for proper forms of address, but the way Allegra was referred to in the Epilogue is wrong. She would be Lady Allegra St.Clair not Lady Allegra Oakleigh.<br />Fifth:  Most of the problems that the lead characters have in this book, could have been solved just by talking to each other openly. No need to overdramatize and complicate everything. For example, if Lottie wanted to get Hayden's attention why didn't she simply sought him out more and tried to get to know him better? The way he ignores her and she does nothing about it gets really old. What did she expect anyway? His undying devotion from the start? They barely knew each other! On the other hand, why Hayden didn't simply explain to her that he had not murdered his first wife? Why would he expect her to belive in his innocence when he had done nothing to defend himself and moreover tries to scare her into thinking him guilty? Again, they were extrangers! To expect such faith from a person that barely knows you is foolish. You can believe in your heart in a person's innocence, but appearances can be deceiving. This is a serious matter, that needed to be addressed openly not something that can be swept under the rug.<br />Sixth: Why did she left when he told her to if she didn't want to leave? The only reason for her to leave in those circumstances is if she were scared of him, which she wasn't. The sensible thing to do was to stay and try to work things out. They talk so little during the book that at the end I don't feel they know each other much better than they did at the beginning. They seem to go from ignoring each other, to making passionate love, to being separated for months, to making love again.<br />The only thing good about this book are the love scenes. Those are really hot. But they don't occur until almost the end of the book and there is only a couple of them and on top of that, the second one is concluded by a most ridiculous scream that had me rolling my eyes in exasperation.<br />I can only assume from the other reviews that Teresa Medeiros has very loyal fans that enjoy this kind of writting, but it is really not my style. I have been wanting to read \\"A Kiss to Remember\\" but if this is the kind of stuff I can expect, I'm not sure I'm going to. Specially since I can't trust the reviews.	2003-08-29
US	31108057	R33P0GFQHONOQJ	0451199979	234694502	Devilish	Books	5	3	5	N	N	A Classic in the Romantic Genre	I have just finished reading this book for the second time. The first time was 3 years ago, when it came out. I didn't know it was part of a series then, but nevertheless, enjoyed it. Recently, I picked up \\"My Lady Notorious\\" and \\"Tempting Fortune\\", and of course, I had to re-visit \\"Devilish\\". I enjoyed it even more than the first time, if that is possible.<BR>Rothgar is one of the most compelling heroes I have ever found, and Diana was clearly, his perfect mate. The story was heart wrenching, deep, dark and passionate, filled with longing and unfulfilled and consuming desire.<BR>I do have some complains, though. Some other reviewers have mentioned this, and I join them in the opinion that the book needed at least one more love scene or at least more kisses and passionate interludes. The court intrigues were interesting, but should not take precedence over the love story.<BR>Another thing is, I'm confused about Bey's age. In previous books it was stablished that he was about 36 (in my Lady Notorious is said that he is 12 years older than 24 year old Cyn, and in Tempting Fortune he is 6 years older than Bryght), by that math, in this book he should be 37 or 38 years old, since almost 2 years have passed since Cyn's story, however, in this book there is a part in which Diana sees a picture of him and Bryght as children, Bryght is a toddler and Bey is a 5 year old boy, therefore, Rothgar could not be more than 4 years older than Bryght. I know this is not a big deal and in no way takes away from the story, but it is a detail I noticed and confused me.<BR>I also struggled a little with the duel scene at the beginning of the book. I really detest violence and killing. Maybe in the carriage scene, when they were being set upon and shot at it was ok to kill to defend themselves, but to kill a man in cold blood merely because of an insult, seems a bit extreme to me and not the best way to start a romantic novel. I prefer it if my heroes do not kill at all.<BR>But this are all minor details, and just personal preferences of mine, to be objective, Jo Beverley's books are well written and historically accurate and informative, while at the same time, original love stories with extraordinary characters. Lately I have been reading a lot of romantic novels, and have come across some really bad ones, in fact I hadn't read such good ones in a while. Now I want to find the rest of the books in this series to have them all. <BR>As a speciall request to the publishers, Please,please, put pictures in the books! The early editions of \\"My Lady Notorious\\" and \\"Tempting Fortune\\" had so much more beautiful covers than the new ones, and it is good for the imagination and the enjoyment of the book to have some visual aid. I would love to see a picture of the Marquees of Rothgar! (I hope he is as devilishly handsome as I picture him in my mind)	2003-08-24
US	31108057	R2B16NN0UBLEMX	0060508108	371901411	Duchess in Love	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Enternaining but disappointing toward the end.	For the most part the book was amusing, even if it didn't make my heart beat faster. It had the potential but I felt that  evertime the book was getting interesting, the scene was over abruptly.  <BR>Usually I don't like it when there are too many plots in one novel, it tends to get distracting and takes away from the main characters, but in this case, it didn't bother me, mainly because I found the secondary characters interesting.<BR>My main complain is that some scenes seem rushed, specially toward the end. And I didn't like at all that Esme actually got back with her husband. From that point on, I disagreed with  everything that happened as a result. I don't want to get into much detail, as to not give away the story, but I feel there was a simpler solution. Why couldn't Esme and her husband get a divorce? It was obvious that they wanted it, since both of them were interested in other people. I know that this was not common at that time, but is not as if the book stays too close to reality anyway. I guess it would have caused a scandal, but neither Esme nor her husband seem too concerned about this either. I would have preferred it if Esme ended up with her lover, since I got to care about him a great deal. The way they parted almost ruined the book for me. Perhaps they will reappear in their own novel? I would like to see a continuation of their story, because I don't like the way things ended for them in this book. And I'm not the only one, I read another reviewer expressed the same oppinion.<BR>Another thing I didn't like too much was the reconciliation between Cam and Gina. This was one of the most important scenes on this book, unfortunately, also one of the most incomplete and badly written.<BR>In general, the book is not bad, the characters were likeable and the plot different. It just needed some polishing...and a sequel.	2003-08-13
US	31108057	R2GS31H2CFYANV	006050353X	847078615	Her Scandalous Intentions	Books	1	2	5	N	N	I can't bellieve so many people rated this book so highly.	I just finished reading this book, and all I can say is I'm relieved it is over. First of all, the book does not concentrate on the main character's love story. There is too much going on, too many characters, too many conflicts, and I think they were not handled skillfully. The book does not flow, the situations are boring and the characters artificial. I could not care much about any of them.<BR>A good romance novel, is supossed to make you feel, to create sexual tension, to engage the readers and make them sympathize with the characters and their problems, this book accomplish none for me.<BR>Besides, there were certain scenes that I did not like at all, for example, at the end when the author tries to redeem the villain by making him do a good deed at the end of his life. I am not going to say what it was, for those of you who have not read the book, but I feel that the deed should have been accoplished by the hero, not the villain.  <BR>All in all, I found the book boring. I would advise you to save your money on this one.	2003-08-10
US	31108057	R1L9OITSK9815I	0440236630	230297888	A Summer to Remember (Bedwyn Saga)	Books	3	6	10	N	N	It was ok, but not great. It will not be among my favorites.	I see that a lot of people have reviewed this book with high praise, and have rated it 5 stars. It may be just my personal taste, but I did not find this book so great at all.<br />First of all, the first half of the book was quite boring, Lauren and Kit (the main characters) did not start to warm up to each other, and thus engage the reader, until too late in the book.<br />The second half was more like a romance novel, but even then, the references to the war, and the horrors that Kit's brother Syd had suffered, were a little disturbing. I felt really sorry for Syd. Even if the author tried to make him look like a courageos hero, I still think he is victim. I look upon his story like a dreadful tragedy that could have been completely avoided. I know that a little realism is necessary in all good romance novels, but the reason I read them is to scape reality and transport myself into a land were there are always happy endings. There will be no happy ending for Syd, no matter what, he will never be again how he used to be. That made me sad and dampened my enjoyment of the story too. <br />The love scenes beween Kit and Lauren were ok, but not moving like, for example, Stephanie Laurens' in the Cynster series. But then again, this may just be my personnal preference.<br />And finally, I don't know how the author is going to make me like Freyja enough to make me buy her book. I find her shallow, spiteful, selfish, too full of herself, lacking all femininity and completely unappealing. She is the antithesis of what a romance novel heroine should be. And I'm not saying this because of her tomboy ways, there are any number of heroines of this kind that I have enjoyed, but she is just too dificult to like.<br />All in all, this won't be one of those memorable books that I go back to, from time to time, just to read my favorite scenes.	2003-07-19
US	31108057	R1WMAO46RA49HQ	0380815583	618770208	An Offer From a Gentleman (Bridgerton Series, Bk. 3)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	My favorite of all the Bridgerton series.	This was the first book in the Bridgerton series that I read. It was a couple of years ago, when it first came out. I didn't even know it was part of a series, so when I recently started to read the other books and found them a little dissapointing, I actually read this one again, to see if it was as good as I had imagined it. And it is.<BR>The magic, the chemistry that exist between the main characters of this book I could not find in any of the others. This was love at first sight. From the first moment they met, they realized they were made for each other. The circumstances that separated them were real, not some trauma or inner struggle (not that these are not valid, but really, in some of the other books, they get very silly, specially after a while)<BR>I could emphatize with Benedict and Sophie. The love scenes were sentimental, deep, and well written. Amazingly, Quinn did not saw fit to ruin them with some misplaced humor, for which I'm glad. This book took me in an emotional roller coaster since the very beginning.<BR>I still would recommend the other Bridgerton books, but in my oppinion this one is definitively the best.	2003-07-09
US	31108057	R3NAK2DDF62BNI	0380815575	722221564	The Viscount Who Loved Me (Bridgerton Series, Bk. 2)	Books	2	9	17	N	N	Too bland, really not my style.	Julia Quinn's style hasn't managed to convince me. Maybe is is just me, but sometimes I feel that her novels lack deep feeling. Some of her books I have enjoyed, like \\"An Offer from a Gentleman\\" and \\"The Duke and I\\", but this one, I don't know, it just doesn't have it.<BR>I remember that when I started reading the book, I would shake my head in disbelief about some of the things I was reading, now I can't even remember what those were (that's the impact this book had on me)<BR>It bothered me to keep reading how beautiful and perfect Edwina was, and how plain and unatractive Kate was in comparision. <BR>I din't like Anthony very much in \\"The Duke and I\\", I thought he was meddlesome, overprotective, petulant and intransigent. I know that he was trying to protect his sister, but really, enough is enough. I thought that challenging his best friend to a duel, and being willing to kill him, just because he compromised his sister was too much, after all, nobody but him found out about that, and that duel, far from helping Daphne, would have detroyed her reputation beyond repair. But anyway, this is not part of this book, although I commented on this because after all, it has to do with Anthony. Now, on this book, he finds his female counterpart, a girl that is as annoyingly overprotective of her sister as he is. But really, those two make me want to scream at them, Mind you own bussiness! It is not that I don't like them, I know that they mean well, and if they act that way is because they care about their families, but they get really annoying at times.<BR>The book is funny, I have to hand it that, the scene about the  park and the dog made me laugh for several minutes, but I was looking for romanticism, not comedy, and truly, the scene of their wedding night, when he tickles her, is just ridiculous and most unromantic. Also, I keep having trouble finding hilarious the things Quinn's characters laugh about. It seems to me that they laugh without any justifiable reason.<BR>Maybe it is just me, seeing that other readers have rated this book so highly. But for me, it was..how to put it?...unremarkable.<BR>Now I'm reading \\"Romancing Mr.Bridgerton\\", and even though I'm only in the first chapter and it is too soon to judge the book, I'm liking it so far. I hope is better than this one.	2003-07-06
US	31108057	R1GEIQS7G14CJS	038077352X	382195301	Dreaming of You	Books	3	27	31	N	N	It was ok, but not one of my very favorites.	I read this book before \\"Then came you\\", I didn't know it was a sequel. I think I would have enjoyed it more if I had read the books in order.<BR>For one thing, it took me a while to warm up to Derek's character. I know this is somewhat prejudicial, but I was a little put off by the way he talks and a little shocked by the things he had done in his past. I know those details make the character more real,and in any case, I shouldn't hold it against him because he was forced by circumstances. In the end I got to admire him for this, but admitedly, he is not your usual romance novel hero.<BR>Another thing that bothered me a little was the way Sara acts. One day her only interest in Derek is to research his club for her novel. The next day she is trying to seduce him and willing to throw away everything and surrender her virginity to him. Then she goes back to her village and intends to go on with her previous life and her moron of a fiance. But when she learns that Derek is in love with her, and later when she meets him again, suddenly, she is in love with him and wants to marry him. I think the development of their relationship was a little rushed and not very well explained. It didn't seem to me that Sara missed Derek very much while she was away, after all she didn't expect to see him ever again, and wasn't terribly devastated by that fact.<BR>But after their re-encounter in Lily's house, I started to enjoy the book more, I think that's where the story really took off (too bad this doesn't happen until about half of the book) and towards the end, I really loved the story.<BR>All in all, the book is a good read, but make sure you read \\"Then Came You\\" first.	2003-07-04
US	31108057	R2TNRF94VT82RW	0449004856	68457568	The Passion (Notorious)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Very emotional and passionate.	This was the first book by Nicole Jordan that I read, and I loved it so much that since then I have read all of the books in this series. They are all great, she is definitively one of my favorite authors.<BR>Since the very beginning the book sizzles with passion. The fist time they made love was so beautiful and so charged with emotions (he was sentenced to die the next morning) that it held me enthralled. The next morning when Aurora tries to save him and is told that the sentence is being carried out and Nick is already dead, I actually cried! Even though I knew he must had somehow scaped or there wouldn't be a story to tell, the thought of him dying was enough to make me weep.<BR>Nick is an incredible character. He is sensual, corageous, passionate, confident and so masculine. There was not a moment in this book when I found fault with the way he acts (unlike other heroes that at the beginnig are real jerks and it is not until later that they reform). He is not the kind of man that tries to deny his need for the woman he loves, he knows what he wants and he is determined to get it, even if he has to risk his life. His relentless pursuit of Aurora made me fall in love with him, and the intense chemistry beween them keeps the love scenes sizzling hot. Every time they meet is intense, passionate, carnal and erotic and I would be hard pressed to choose one favorite scene from this book. There are so many!<BR>An incredible book. I have read it twice and from time to time, I like to re-read my favorite scenes. An all time favorite.<br />(Make sure you also read the other books in this series \\"The Seduction\\", \\"Desire\\", \\"Ecstacy\\" and \\"The Prince of Pleasure\\", they are all equally good)	2003-07-04
US	31108057	RWLT2XI2E416R	0804119805	396185159	The Prince of Pleasure (Notorious)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Another sizzling romance by Jordan.	I had been waiting for this book for months, and now that I have read it, I'm not dissapointed.<BR>The story is fast paced, erotic and original. It grabs you at the very beginning and you find yourself reading page after page to see where is all going.<BR>The characters are well developed and charismatic. Dare, we alrady knew from other Jordan novels (The Seduction, The Passion, Desire and Ecstasy) We knew he is sensual, charming, magnetic and  shameless. But in this book he takes new dimenssions and is revealed to us in a deeper and more intimate way. He is also compassionate, understanding and capable of a depth of emotion and commitment that I didn't belive posible in him before reading this book.<BR>Julienne is the perfect match for him. No blushing miss could have made Dare fall in love with her. It takes a heroine like her, witty and corageous, with that mixture of sensuality and vulnerability to bring the Prince of Pleasure to his knees.<BR>The chemistry beween them is electric, the dialogue is witty and the love scenes red hot.<BR>I paricularly liked the theater scene, where Dare challeges her to the wager in front of the whole audience. I loved the fact that even though he thought she had betrayed him, he still could not help seeking her out and falling in love with her all over again. In spite of all the hurt and mistrust, they still needed each other and were drawn together by their hearts desires even against their better judgement. Their love was one that could survive intrigue, betrayal, lies, time and distance.<BR>However, to be objective, I must say that there are a few things about this book that I did not find very convincing. One of them was the reason for their break up all those years ago. It did not seem at all justified. I would think that for a person in Julienne's situation, the logical and sensible thing to do after being threatened by Dare's grandfather would be to turn to him for protection and face the problems together as a couple. Instead she pushes him out of her life trying to be \\"noble\\" and \\"sacrifice\\" herself for him. If they were in love, she should have given Dare the option of deciding for himself what he wanted to do, not make the choices for him. She made her decision assuming that Dare would be happier with his title and money than with her, and that only proves that she did not have enough faith in his love. With her actions she only caused a lot of pain and unhappiness for both of them. Also, how the hell could Dare belive Julienne had been cheating on him right from the start? If I remember correctly, Julienne was a virgin the first time they were together, I should think that a man of Dare's experience would have realized that. Her innocence should have been proof enough against Lord Ivers accusation that they were lovers even before Dare and Julienne met each other.<BR>However, if you can get pass those details, the book is a real Pleasure to read.	2003-07-03
US	31108057	R1183U3PCSVI0Y	067168132X	931033724	SOMETHING WONDERFUL	Books	5	2	2	N	N	This book is truly "Something Wonderful"	This book is already one of my favorites, as is every book I have read from Judith McNaught. <BR>The story is so romantic and so full of emotions that it will make you cry and laugh and fall in love with the characters. Specially Jordan! Trust McNaught to create an amazing, unforgettable, sexy and absolutely lovable hero.<BR>The only thing that bothered me a little about the book is the reception Jordan received from those he loved when he returned. They considered him dead, and mourned him for more than a year, however, when he reappears, nobody hugs him or shows any signs of joy, specially Alexandra. I know that she was dissapointed of the things she learned about him, but she should have felt happy that he was alive.<BR>My favorite scene is when he thinks that she is going to die and starts talking to her and telling her about his feelings. It brought tears to my eyes!<BR>A delicious book. You will not be able to pu it down!(at least I couldn't)	2003-06-29
US	31108057	R3V2IGKA1V83LK	0373835396	928905497	Four In Hand	Books	1	4	8	N	N	Is this really a book by Stephanie Laurens?	I am a big fan of Stephanie Laurens. I couln't like more the Cynster's series, so when I finished with it, I set out to purchase more books by her. But this one was a BIG DISSAPOINTMENT. <BR>It didn't even seem a book written by her. If I had read it, without knowing the author, never in a million years I would have guessed Laurens wrote this book. It is so different to the Cynster series!<BR>The story is completely boring, I would get desperate reading page after page where nothing interesting happened and wondered to my self, when are we getting to the good part? The good part never came.<BR>In general, I think the book is too PG rated, maybe appropiate for a 13 year old, but not suitable for adults. <BR>My advice is if you liked the Cynsters series, do not under any circumstance buy this book. It will bore you out of your senses.<BR>By the way, \\"Rogue's Reform\\", a collection of 3 other novels also by Laurens is not much better. I just read the first one and can not bring my self to read the other two.	2003-06-29
US	31108057	R2W6GHYQ95VIFT	0380800810	901291495	How to Marry a Marquis (Avon Romantic Treasure)	Books	2	11	16	N	N	Absurd plot, ridiculous situations and artificial dialogue.	This book was a big disapointment, usually when I read a romance novel I really get into the story, but I couldn't with this one. <br />The characters are not convincing, the dialogue was artificial and, what's with Lady Dunbury's thumping of the cane? This old lady looked demented to me. Who goes around thumping her cane for no reason whatsoever? In fact, I think all the characters are a little demented. They burst into laughter when there is nothing that hillarious to laugh about, they get angry for no reason and in general the react in a very weird manner.<br />The scene that bothered me most was when Elizabeth finds out that James is really a marquis. Her reaction is, to say the least, crazy! I mean, it's ok to be a little upset for his deception, but to throw such a tantrum? Really, who acts this way? If I were James I would run in the other direction and never see her again. She is such a drama queen! I mean, there are worse things that finding out that the man you love (who loves you in return and wants to marry you) is a marquis with a lot of money.<BR>I think the author was striving for some lighthearted comedy, but what resulted was a series of ridiculous situations that should not have been longer than 100 pages. There was not a real conflic in this story. In the first place, what took James so long to realize that he should marry Elizabeth? He was looking for a wife, and for the first time found a girl that was all he had dreamed of. So what the hell was he about when he offered to help her find another man to marry?<br />I was surprised that several people rated this book 5 stars. I personally wouldn't recommend it.	2003-06-28
US	31108057	R1KRB6B99YXPD3	0312978413	965871915	Total Surrender	Books	1	12	12	N	N	Boring story and despicable behavior.	This is the 3rd Cheryl Holt book I have read, the first one was Love Lessons, that I quite enjoyed, the second one was Absolute Pleasure that I hated and almost made me not want to buy another Cheryl Holt book, but since I had already read James' story, I wanted to know what happened to his brother Michael, whom I liked from Love Lessons, to I bought this book. And once again was completely dissapointed by Holt's style. This definitevely is the last book I buy from her.<BR>First of all, she has a tendency to create heroes that are very hard to like, and that commit accions that are very difficult to forgive, but in spite of this, the female is always the one who in the ends seeks him out (totally humilliating herself in the process). If you have read other Chery Holt books, you know what I'm talking about, in Love Lessons it was somewhat justified. in Absolute Pleasure it was not, neither in this book. When I read about the way Michael treated her, merely because he suspects that she may have plotted with her brother to ensnare him, it made me dislike Michael very much. He sends her to  the country to endure hunger, cold and misery while he lives happily in the city, \\"pretending\\" not to know of her situation, when he should have known better, since he was the one who caused it. <BR>I kept hoping that he would learn the truth about her innocence and go looking for her and ask her forgiveness for his inconsiderate behavior, but instead, he had never planned to  look for her, if it were up to him she could have died of hunger or cold, and he would have never even found out. Does this sound like a person in love? Of course not, however, Holt tries to makes us believe after she seeks him out, that he loves her, and feels remorse for his actions against her. I'm sorry but I found this very hard to believe.<BR>In Love Lessons, Michael was a very likeable character,and this book completely ruined him. Even the reconciliation scene was all about sex and not about emotions.<BR>I kind of liked the scene when Abigail gives Sarah the drawings of Michael, and when he finds out that his sister in law saw them. It was cute. But that was it. <BR>It is a shame, because the original plot of this book could have made for a good romance novel, but it was developed poorly.	2003-06-20
US	31108057	RLKPK2C9TM9WL	0671011332	7794510	Almost Heaven	Books	5	0	1	N	N	This is not a review for "Almost Heaven"	This is a review for \\"Whitney, My Love\\", I don't know how it ended up under \\"Almost Heaven\\". I'm sorry for the confusion it may have caused.<br />This book made me feel so much! I love the story, the characters, the emotions that moved them. Because this book is about emotion, pure and raw.<BR>I have read that some people are disturbed by the \\"rape\\" scene, and I respect everybody's opinion, but I would like to share my views on this. <BR>You need to look at the actions-the emotions- that led to it. He had been in love with Whitney for a long time, he had been patient and tried hard to win her love, with no apparent success, she keeps rejecting him and favoring Paul, who is totally unworthy of her. Then he is led to believe that Whitney is not the innocent he thinks she is, and that she has been playing him for a fool all this time. Blinded by jealousy, he kidnaps Whitney and takes her to his state with the purpose of ravishing her. But even then, he was going to stop before committing the \\"act\\". It was Whitney herself who encouraged him, not knowing what he was about. So he does it, but the regrets, the pain, the desolation he feels afterwards, when he thinks he has lost her forever because of his actions, made me feel as sorry for him as for Whitney.<BR>This is actually one of my favorite scenes in the book, and not because I'm in favor of rape (all the contrary), but because it is so full with emotions (love,passion,jealousy,regrets,pain.)<BR>I suppose everybody have a different oppinion about this, but regardless of your sentiments on this scene, I think the book is great. <BR>Yes, Clayton is arrogant, stubborn and in more than one occasion jumps to the wrong conclusion, but he is also tender, loving, protective and is madly in love with Whitney.<BR>A masterful romance novel. I definitively recommend it.	2003-06-08
US	31108057	R3KQQT0202H3NH	0671880608	457314081	Until You (The Westmoreland Dynasty Saga)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Simply Magnificent.	This book made me laugh, made me weep, made my heart twist and I just could not put it down until I finished it.<BR>Whitney, My Love was the first romanctic novel I ever read and I loved it. A great sequel to Whitney, My Love. It lives up to the expectations, I certainly was not dissapointed.<BR>This is the second novel I read from Judith McNaught and it definitevely puts her among my favorites authors with Nicole Jordan and Stephanie Laurens. I can't wait to read more of her books, specially the story of Nicky DuVile.<BR>I absolutely recommend it.	2003-06-07
US	31108057	RMGA3EMZFJPF1	0380818205	825716848	The Marriage Lesson (Effington Family & Friends)	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Romantic, funny, sensual and witty.	This is the 5th book of this series I have read,(preceded by \\"The Wedding Bargain\\", \\"The Husband List\\", \\"The Prince's Bride\\",and \\"Her Highness my Wife\\", although not precisely in that order) and I can say without a doubt that it is my favorite of them all. <br />Thomas is charming, sensual, strong, masterful and an accomplished lover , as any romantic novel hero should be, but at the same time has flaws,and makes mistakes and even gets himself in ridiculous situations sometimes. Surprisingly, that doesn't take away from him, on the contrary, makes him even more endearing and believable. Marianne is bold, romantic, intelligent and a dreamer. I liked the fact that she wears glasses, its kind of different.<br />I enjoyed the sex scenes in this book, they were passionate, and well written and balance a story that otherwise would have been too \\"light\\". A nice surprise in a Victoria Alexander book, that sometimes tend to not include enough or not develop well this type of scenes.<br />The story is funny and romantic, althogh there are some things I had trouble believing, like the fact that Thomas needed a clue from Marianne sisters to figure out the stories were about them. Hello? It was pretty obvious.<br />One thing I have noticed about Alexander's novels is that the characters sometimes tend to act in a maner more appropiate to this century than the rigid English society of that time. The heroines are far too bold and the tolerant and even encouraging attitude of the older people (specially the Dowager Duchess)is a little unbelievable.<br />But in general is a good story, fast paced, passionate and charming. A real page turner (I could barely put it down) I strongly recommend it.	2003-06-05
US	31108057	R2ZIQRBXWQYO0H	0380805685	360399234	Scandal's Bride (Cynster Novels)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Loved Richard. Not so crazy about the story.	The only reason I'm giving this book 4 stars is because I loved Richard's character, but I can't say the same thing about Catriona. I think I would have liked it better if she were more of a healer and less of a witch. Personally, I could have done without all the mystic and supernatural stuff this book is full of. <br />Another thing, the book started out great, but after Richard and Catriona got married, the story slowed down tremendously. Everything was about them trying to get along and deciding how to run the Vale. It would have been so much more interesting to have some intrigue, some villain to unmask, like in all the other Cynsters books. OK, there was Algaria poisoning Richard, but the way they handled that situation is yet another thing I did not like about this book. The woman tried to kill him, for goodness sake! How on hell are they going to simply forgive her on the absurd basis that she thought she was doing \\"The Lady's\\" will? And not only that, but put her in charge of their future children?! That's very hard to digest. No sane person would behave like that.<br />Anyway, I think Richard is my favorite Cynster, and this could have been my favorite Cynster book, it certainly had the potential. It's a shame that because of a poor development of the story the book did not live up to it.	2003-05-10
US	31108057	RL0Q79W2X624Q	0061031755	327922976	The Promise in a Kiss (A Cynster Christmas Special)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Mixed emotions.	I loved this book, like all the others of the Cynster series and definetely loved the characters, but since I had previously read the \\"Bar Cynster\\" books, and in them Sebastian was already dead, that spoiled the fun a little. Besides, I would have liked to know how Sebastian got involved with Richard's mother, since he claimed to love Helena so much, and frankly, I have a hard time believing Helena would accept Sebastian infidelity so calmly (even happily). It would have been interesting if Richard's mother would have drugged Sebastian to make love to him, just like Catriona drugged Richard. And it would have been entirely possible since Richard's mother was a disciple of \\"The Lady\\" too.<BR>That would have exonerated Sebastian and would have made for a nice irony.	2003-05-09
US	31108057	R2FNUNMBBO3NEJ	0061031755	327922976	The Promise in a Kiss (A Cynster Christmas Special)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Mixed emotions.	I loved this book, like all the others of the Cynster series and definetely loved the characters, but since I had previously read the \\"Bar Cynster\\" books, and in them Sebastian was already dead, that spoiled the fun a little. Besides, I would have liked to know how Sebastian got involved with Richard's mother, since he claimed to love Helena so much, and frankly, I have a hard time believing Helena would accept Sebastian infidelity so calmly (even happily). It would have been interesting if Richard's mother would have drugged Sebastian to make love to him, just like Catriona drugged Richard. And it would have been entirely possible since Richard's mother was a disciple of \\"The Lady\\" too.<BR>That would have exonerated Sebastian and would have made for a nice irony.	2003-05-09
