US	31406259	R3B5Q33AJ416RY	0060872675	471104566	Where's My Cow?	Books	4	6	7	N	N	animals that go sizzle	Sam Vimes, commander of the Ankh-Morpork city Watch, has to be home at 6pm sharp every day to read 'Where's My Cow' to Young Sam.  He's very good at doing the animal noises \\"Where's My cow?  Is that my cow?  It goes 'Oink, oink' It is a pig!  That's not my cow!\\"  Then Vimes gets to thinking that Young Sam is growing up in a city, and will only see these animals on a plate, where they go sizzle!. <br /> <br />So he tries a different version, \\"Where's my daddy?  Is that my daddy?  It goes \\"Bugrit! Millenium Hand and Shrimp'  It is Foul Ole Ron.  That's not my Daddy!\\"  and so on, with a cast of familiar Ankh-Morpork characters, right up to the Patrician.  Until Lady Sybil comes in and Vimes quickly returns to the original text. <br /> <br />This book is amusingly illustrated by Melvyn Grant, who I think has captured the Discworld characters very well.  A very short book, but it should entertain all Discworld fans, and their children too.	2005-09-30
US	31406259	R2XGQ6XQB4M1H1	0060815221	379004211	Thud! A Novel of Discworld	Books	4	0	3	N	N	More trouble with trolls and dwarves	Trouble is brewing again between the dwarves and the trolls in Ankh-Morpork.  There are mysterious murders, strange signs on walls, and an enormous painting of the Battle of Koom Valley (a battle between dwarves and trolls, naturally) has been stolen. <br /> <br />In addition to trying to sort all this out, Sam Vimes has to cope with a vampire joining the Watch, Nobby's involvement with an exotic dancer at the PinkPussyCat club, and of course getting home at 6pm on the dot every day to read \\"Where's My Cow?\\" to Young Sam. <br /> <br />This is an exciting story, but like most of the other recent Discoworld novels was, I thought a bit short on laughs.  It's gripping enough, but I find myself regretting the hilarity of the earlier novels.  This more sombre Discoworld is less to my taste. <br />	2005-09-30
US	31406259	R1XV8JBR8PUOFU	006078122X	169697297	Hating Women: America's Hostile Campaign Against the Fairer Sex	Books	3	28	41	N	N	Women on a pedestal	Shmuley Boreach believes that women in modern America are treated with contempt, portrayed my the media as brainless, selfish golddiggers.  He laments the past when women were treated by men with awe and reverence. <br /> <br />women, he believes are the superior sex, and it is a woman's job to civilise the savage, brutal male and make him fit for matrimony.  To this end, he believes that women must dress modestly, refrain from having sex before marriage, and never tolerate any coarse behaviour by their men.  women must be put back on their pedestal. <br /> <br />He makes some rather curious assumptions about the past, his idea that women have in the pastinvariably been treated with awe and reverence by men is doubtful to say the least.  He laments the fact that women nowadays are admired more for their looks than their brains, but I'm not aware of any era in history when this has not been the case.  And mercenary marriages, which he seems to see as a modern invention, were the norm rather than the exception in ages past, you only have to look at the novels of Jane austen for instance, to see how closely money and matrimony were linked two hundred years ago. <br /> <br />He seems to have it in particularly for Britney Spears, who he regards as the archetype of the brainless, talentless, promiscuous bimbo who is admired for her looks rather than for her singing.  My oldest son had a crush on Britney Spears when he was about fifteen (though he would deny it now) and said he wanted to marry her.  It pains me somewhat therefore to hear Miss Spears spoken of so slightingly, since if she and my son had ever had an opportunity to meet, she might have been my daughter-in-law.  However, Mr Boteach seems to regard her as being almost single-handedly responsible for the contempt with which women are treated (he believes) today. <br /> <br />Belching is another subject that preoccupies Mr Boteach, a man should never ever belch in front of his wife, it is the ultimate in degredation.  What a man should do if he inadvertently releases a belch in front of his wife I don't know, shoot himself perhaps. <br /> <br />Girls, he believes, need protecting from wicked, predatory men, his own daughters are not allowed to date until they are nineteen or twenty (what his daughters think of this arrangement he doesn't mention).  Women are the victims of men's foul lust, and must never have sex with a man unless he has earned it through chivalrous and reverent behaviour. <br /> <br />He also wants to stop women going shopping \\"Girls and women should be weaned off a materialistic culture of shopping, fashion, and beauty and inspired to internalize more wholesome and rewarding pursuits.\\"  I would personally like to believe that most women who shop do have other interests as well, but even if they don't, I feel that Mr Boteach will probably have his work cut out implementing this one. <br /> <br />If you are the sort of woman who likes the idea of being put on a pedestal and worshipped then you will probably enjoy this book.  If, however, you find the idea of being responsible for civilising the male of the species too daunting a task, and would rather not have to undertake this endevour, or if you even believe that some men at least are capable of acting in a civilised manner without being trained by the superior female, you may find it too much to swallow.	2005-09-05
US	31406259	R1XPDP91LZWVNU	0439784549	162568542	Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince (Book 6)	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Another tough year at Hogwarts	Harry Potter returns to Hogwarts for his most challenging year yet.  Not only is Lord Voldemort on the loose and creating havoc, but this year Harry is Captain of Quidditch and has to pick the new team.  He also has to cope with his growing feelings of passion for Ginny Weasley, and the tension between Hermione and Ron, who are frequently not speaking to each other. <br /> <br />Severus Snape is now teaching Defence Against the Dark Arts, and there is a new Potions master, Slughorn, who is very impressed by Harry's skill at making potions.  Harry's new-found skill is due to his copy of the textbook, which is filled with helpful notes by a previous owner, who calls himself 'The Half-Blood Prince'.  Thanks to the mysterious Prince, Harry is soon top of the class, much to Hermione's annoyance.  Another thing annoying Hermione is that Ron has started going out with Lavender, and they are more or less constnatly twined around one another.  Meanwhile slughorn also has a secret that Dumbledore wants to find out, and gives Harry the unenviable job of getting Slughorn to reveal it. <br /> <br />This book is as exciting as all the previous ones, though perhaps with less humour than previously.  this is not surprising, but there are some light moments.  Particularly enjoyable is the highly eccentric commentary given by Luna at a Quidditch match, and the funeral of Aragorn, hagrid's disgusting and lethal giant spider.  And Ron's brothers Fred and George, whose joke shop is flourishing, turn up from time to time to lighten the mood. <br /> <br />the book is almost unbearably exciting at times, J.K. Rowling knows how to tell a thrilling story, and she also knows how to wring the heartstrings, I was in tears by the ending.  she is perhaps not the most original of writers, but she knows how to grip you until the end.  It's terrible to think we may have to wait another two years for the next book, and to finally find out whether Snape is really on the side of good or evil.  I'm notsure I can stand the suspence. <br /> <br />	2005-07-20
US	31406259	R17U7Z0T1FKIXL	0380718154	961003330	Getting to 'I Do': The Secret to Doing Relationships Right!	Books	3	93	104	N	N	Not completely idiotic	I usually totally despise self-help books of the 'how to get a man and keep him' type, but this one, although like most self-help books pretty silly, does contain some quite sensible advice. <br /> <br />Dr. Allen's theory is that everyone is either a 'feminine energy' person or a 'masculine energy' person.  The masculine eneergy personis the leader who  cherishes his mate, the feminine energy person is the follower who respects her leader.  Dr. Allen doesn't think it matters whether the man or the woman is the leader or the follower (this makes her more flexible than the authors of most such books), but she maintains that you must have one of each, she doesn't think 'equal' relationships can work. <br /> <br />If you decided to be the 'feminine energy' woman (as she thinks most women will probably want to be) you let the man make the running, make the decisions (so long as they are not unethical, immoral, or something that can harm you or your children), and accept what he gives you graciously (that includes accepting things you might not particularly care for, like unwanted advice).  You always give back less than you take, because a feminine energy woman must love herself more than her man. <br /> <br />One of her theories is that men want to marry virtupous women, so you must not sleep with a man until he has 'committed' to you, if you want to marry him.  I don't know how true this is generally, but it certainly wasn't true in my own case, I slept with all the men I went out with before they'd 'committed' to me, but nevertheless some of them did want to marry me. <br /> <br />The part of this book I enjoyed the most is the chapter called 'Finding the Toad in every Prince' in which she describes how you cope when you discover the things about your prospective mate that you don't like.  she says \\"There is a prince in every toad and a toad in every prince.  But does someone fall in love with the prince part of a person?  No way.  They fall in love with the toad part.  It's the idiosyncracies and weirdness that really endears someone to you, the part that makes you say \\"Oh, that's just him\\" and you love him anyway. <br />  I tell women if they are still waiting for the perfect man - mentally, physically and emotionally he's not coming.  <br />  I feel that if you get someone who is 51 percent or better, keep him.  That is to say, if you like more about the person than you don't, then go for it.  Because odds are that if you don't, and you go out looking for a better deal elsewhere, you could end up with someone who is only 49% or worse.\\" <br /> <br />I thought this was very sensible advice.  One of the things I like about this book, is that Pat allen does not recommend a woman making herself into a doormat, or  behaving as if only what the man wants matters, she believes that a naturally 'masculine energy' man will want to keep his wife happy and give her what she wants. <br /> <br />Not everything in this book made sense to me, but I did think some of the advice was quite sensible, and you might find it helpfull.  It certainly didn't induce in me the feelings of nausea that other books of this kind have done.	2005-07-20
US	31406259	R2Y49ZD7KS071Y	0394562720	909726875	The Making of the African Queen: Or How I Went to Africa With Bogart, Bacall and Huston and Almost Lost My Mind	Books	5	18	18	N	N	Delightful	Katherine Hepburn's lively account of her experiences on location in Africa is very short, but packed with amusing and exciting incidents.  Her style of writing is very distinctive, short abrupt sentences which vividly describe the inconveniences, discomforts and sometimes dangers of life in the jungle.  There are some alarming encounters with wildlife, whether it's being attacked by hornets, finding a snake in the bathroom, or watching a herd of elephants stampede by a mere twenty-five feet away.  The eccentricites and charms of her human companions are clearly and amusingly described as well, as are all the difficulties encountered in the making of this wonderful film. <br /> <br />The book is illustrated with lots of fascinating photographs takne on location, including some beautiful ones of Miss Hepburn (I particularly like the ones of her 'luxurious jungle dressing room'), and should delight any fan of The African Queen or of Katherine Hepburn.	2005-07-19
US	31406259	R1SN2GTI7Z2C9N	159403091X	908224304	Taking Sex Differences Seriously	Books	3	26	39	N	N	Taking sex differences too seriously	The author of this book undoubtedly has some valid points to make about sex differences.  I couldn't argue with his statement that women are more interested in babies than men are, or that many women would prefer to devote themselves to raising a family rather than pursuing a career.  and I do believe he is correct that society is biased against women who wish to devote themsleves to their children rather than to careers. <br /> <br />He makes some rather exaggerated claims about sexual differences though.  All men, according to him, are promiscuous beast seeking to have as many sexual partners as they can, and would never dream of marrying any woman loose enough to sleep with them.  women, on the other hand, are good monogamous little nest-builders, just waiting for a good man to protect them, women only have sex with men because they are looking for love, never for their own pleasure. <br /> <br />To read this book, you'd believe that no woman was ever promiscuous or unfaithful or had sex just for the hell of it.  You'd think it was never the woman who didn't want to see a man again after sleeping with him, and you'd never believe that women can sometimes treat men like dirt.   <br /> <br />None of this is quite true, in my onw experience.  when I was young I frequently treated men quite badly, and if it was true that no man wants to marry a woman who sleeps with him before he is 'committed' to her then I would never have received any offers of marriage at all, but I did, dear reader, I did.  Not all women are hapless victims of male lust.  And, contrary to what Mr Rhoads seems to belive, not all women love romance novels.  I hate them, so where does that leave me?  People cannot be divided up according to sex quite as tidily as this book suggests,in my experience we are all more complex than that. <br /> <br />Don't take this book too seriously.  <br />	2005-07-17
US	31406259	R2ZM9B6NFOMO0O	0425204332	260361677	Undead and Unappreciated	Books	4	5	5	N	N	REturn of the reluctant vampire	In this third instalment of the Betsy Taylor saga, Betsy is still undead and and still fighting it.  She won't drink blood, prefering to keep going on coffee, refuses to be frightened of crucifixes, and in this book she even finds she can stay awake in daylight.  and she is still furious to find herself stuck with hunky vampire Sinclair as a consort. <br /> <br />Her life is complicated by her discovery that she has a half-sister who is the devil's daughter (the devil took over the body of Betsy's stepmother for the duration of the pregnancy, readers of the previous volumes will not be surprised by this).  Reading the Book of the Dead turns Betsy temporarily into a deranged maniac who attacks her best friends and then seduces Sinclair.  And she's having trouble with the staff at her vampire nightclub Scratch as well. <br /> <br />Although this is an amusing story, I didn't think it was as funny or as exciting as the first two.  The plot seemed weaker and there were fewer thrills and laughs than in the earlier episodes.  If you haven't read any of the Betsy Taylor books before, I would recommend reading 'Undead and Unwed', and 'Undead and Unemployed' before this one.	2005-07-15
US	31406259	R3VQWSO6DKAIX1	0312306261	643244690	Eleven on Top	Books	4	56	69	N	N	A bit over the top	Stephanie has decided being a bounty hunter is too dangerous, so she quits her job working for  Cousin Vinnie and tries to find something safer.  After working for the button factory (fired before she even starts work), a dry cleaners, and Kluck-in-a-Bucket, she finally ends up working for Ranger.  However, someone is still trying to kill her, and her cars are getting blown up at an alarming rate. <br /> <br />Also, her sister Valerie is getting married, and Stephanie is expeetec to walk up the aisle dressed in eggplant.  And for no very good reason she has told her family that she can play the cello (she can't) and they are expecting her to play it at the wedding.  And then she decides she is going to give up eating sugar, could things get any worse? <br /> <br />There are a lot of funny scenes, my favourite is the one where Grandma Mazur and Grandma Bella hav a fight (in the funeral parlour, where else?).  However, I found myself slightly less gripped by this one than by the previous volumes. Maybe it's because she's not a bounty hunter any more, but there seemed to be less excitement and suspense than in the other stories.  And I found the denoument too preposterous to believe. Also I found myself wondering how much longer she can keep stringing Morelli along without making a committment, before he just gets fed up with her. <br /> <br />Never mind, you don't read a Stephanie Plum novel for the realism, you read it for the laughs, and there are plenty of those, more than you get with most other authors anyway.  <br /> <br />	2005-06-22
US	31406259	R2EP7PP1M8TIGT	075640262X	784246324	Smoke and Mirrors (Smoke, Book 2)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A haunting mystery	Tony Foster is still working as a harassed production assistant on the TV show Darkest Night, about a vampire detective.  They are filming an episode set in an old mansion, which turns out to be haunted by a multitude of ghosts, all of whom were murdered or commited suicide.  It turns out that there is a malignant force within the house that drives people mad and causes them to committ murder, and now the TV company are shut inside the house and can't get out, while the force within the house gets to work on them to cause more murders. <br /> <br />Tony, who is developing the wizardly powers that he discovered in the previous book 'Smoke and Shadows', has to try and figure out how to rescue everybody.  Meanwhile he also has to cope with his extraordiarily complicated love life, the handsome actor Lee on whom he has a crush, Zev the music director with whom he has had a short-lived affair, and other men who seem to be entangled with him one way or the other.  He also has to contend with the fact that in the house with him are the two obnoxious little daughters of CB, the owner of the TV company, girls who quite inexplicably have managed to reach the ages of eight and eleven without already being murdered. <br /> <br />Outside, CB and vampire Henry Fitzroy, Tony's friend and ex-lover, are busy trying to work out a way to get into the house, in conjuction with Graham, the caretaker of the house, who is also a medium.  Their combined talents are formidable, but can they really do anything to help? <br /> <br />Although I don't find this series quite as engaging as some of Tanya Huff's others, it still has an exciting plot, interesting characters, plenty of humour, and kept me gripped until the end.	2005-06-14
US	31406259	R3GSVO4LVNY419	0415288606	386737257	Strange Histories: The Trial of the Pig, the Walking Dead, and Other Matters of Fact from the Medieval and Renaissance Worlds	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Fascinating look at beliefs of the past	This book explains clearly and convincingly why the people of the medieval and early modern periods believed in things that seem to us biazarre and irrational.  If you want to understand why people believed in witchcraft,werewolves, the persecution of heretics, the trying of animals for crimes against humans etc, this book explains it all.  It clearly shows that the beliefs of past times were no more irrational than our own, given the way people knew the world to be. If you read this book you can understand why, for instance,in 1545 it seemed reasonable to the townsfolk of Saint-Julien-de-Maurienne in France to sue a plague of flies for destroying a vinyard.<br /><br />More disconcertingly, the book also shows that our own modern beliefs are often no more rational than the beliefs of the past, and that for instance the same reasons that led people to accept the truth of confessions of witchcraft, led people in modern times to accept the reality of Satanic abuse.  If you pride yourself on being more rational than folk in past times, your opinion may be shaken by this book.  The book is written in a lucid, witty style that makes it pleasantly easy to read for the unscholarly (like me), and should be enjoyed by anyone with an interest in history and why people believe what they do.	2005-04-10
US	31406259	R318Y1RCIU1ABE	0425197484	929904269	Undead and Unemployed (Queen Betsy, Book 2)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Welcome return of the Vampire Queen	Betsy Taylor hasn't been a vampire for very long, and is still getting used to it.  She can't really work up much enthusiasm for drinking blood, she craves real food, but it makes her throw up.  And her passion for shoes is unabated, so in defiance of vampire custom, she takes a job selling shoes at Macy's, the job of her dreams.  She has a slight problem in that she hates to sell her beautiful shoes to anyone she thinks won't take proper care of them. <br /> <br />Meanwhile there is a mysterious killer staking vampires, and she has to find out who it is.  Also she and her friends Jessica and Marc have to move from their home, so Jessica buys an enormous grand mansion which isn't Betsy's style at all.  And she is still being pestered by Sinclair, now King of the Vampires, who wants to move in with her.  He insists they're destined for each other, but Betsy isn't convinced.  Despite pressure to resign her job, she is still determined to continue to live as normal an Undead life as possible, and she is not going to give up her beloved shoes. <br /> <br />This is the very welcome sequel to 'undead and Unwed' and is just as funny and original as the earlier book. Betsy is a very endearing heroine, and there are strong supporting characters and a funny and exciting plot. If you enjoy humorous vampire stories, you should love this one.  I can't wait for the next installment.	2005-02-22
US	31406259	RY2CGK8GHZJB0	042519485X	806820342	Undead and Unwed (Queen Betsy, Book 1)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Terrific tale of a reluctant vampire	Betsy Taylor has just been sacked from her secretarial job, and her chief worry is that she won't be able to afford to buy the designer shoes that her soul craves.  then she's killed in a car crash, and is surprised to find herself waking up in the morgue.  The worst part is finding that her hated stepmother has - horror of horrors - dressed her in CHEAP shoes!  She finds she is now incredibly strong and fast and has a craving to drink blood, in fact she's a vampire.  Not just any old vampire either, but the Queen of the Vampires, whose coming is foretold in the vampire's Book of the Dead. <br /> <br />Betsy has to break it to her family and friends that she is not dead, but rather Undead (her stepmother, naturally,is furious).  She finds herself being pursued by sexy vampire hunk Sinclair and his followers, who want her to help them rid the word of the evil Nostro, who treats other vampires like slaves.  The other vampires are disconcerted by Betsy's refusal to act like a proper vampire, she insists on keeping in touch with her family, goes to church, wears a crucifix, doesn't burn up in sunlight, and is still crazy about shoes.  This comes in handy when they have to bribe her to help them rid the world of Nostro. <br /> <br />This is a wonderfully funny book, and Betsy is a delightful heroine.  Her passion for shoes, her enthusiasm for 'Gone With the Wind' (she really identifies with Scarlett), and her bracing contempt for vampire customs, are all endearing characteristics, as are her courage and her generosity.  The supporting characters are good too, especially Betsy's abrasive black friend Jessica, and of course the smouldering sexy Sinclair.  A real treat.	2005-02-22
US	31406259	R1GLYQFQ6TGJJ	0425177416	945670752	Hercule Poirot's Christmas	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A cracking Christmas mystery	Hercule Poirot is spending Christmas in the country with his friend Colonel Johnson, Chief Constable of Middleshire, and suffering greatly from the lack of central heating, \\"Nothing like a wood fire\\" says Colonel Johnson, but Poirot disagrees.  Then nasty, malicious old millionaire Simeon Lee is bloodily murdered, and Poirot is called in to investigate. <br /> <br />The house is full of Simeon Lee's put-upon sons and their put-upon wives, any one of whom might have wanted to do the old tyrant in, especially as Lee was about to change his will, apparently to include his beautiful granddaughter Pilar, just arrived from Spain, whom none of the family had ever set eyes on before.  The family are naturally anxious to insist that the murder must have been an outside job, whereas Poirot is equally convinced that one of the family is responsible. <br /> <br />This is one of the most delightful of the Poirot mysteries, with an interesting set of characters,especially vivacious, unconventional Pilar, amusing dialogue, and a cunning murderer to unmask.  A real Christmas treat.	2005-02-05
US	31406259	R2OJ3ZMBN6HSHQ	0425175456	400761492	Mrs. McGinty's Dead: A Hercule Poirot Novel (Hercule Poirot Mysteries)	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Magnificent mystery	Hercule Poirot is bored, so he is delighted when he is visited by his old friend Superintendent Spence of the Kilchester Police.  Spence has recently conducted an investigation into the murder of an old charwoman Mrs McGinty, in the village of Broadhinny.  her lodger, James Bentley has been convicted of the murder and is due to hang, but Spence is convinced Bentley is innocent, and wants Poirot to investigate. <br /> <br />Poirot goes to stay in the village of Broadhinny, and soon begins to uncover reasons why other people might have wanted Mrs McGinty dead.  While investigating the murder, he has to cope with staying at the dreadful guest house run by the Summerhayes, a couple who have no idea of how to keep house or cook an edible meal.   <br /> <br />The scenes where the sufferings of Poirot at the guest house are described are among the most amusing in this very amusing book.  There are many interesting characters, particularly the scatty but charming Maureen Summerhayes, whom Poirot likes in spite of her atrocious cooking.  And there is the maddening James Bentley, the convicted murderer, whose unprepossesing character only makes Poirot more determined to prove him innocent. <br /> <br />One of the most amusing exchanges in the book occurs near the end: ' \\"Mon Dieu, how stupid I have been,\\" said Hercule Poirot, \\"The whole thing is simple, is it not?\\"  It was after that remark that there was very nearly another murder - the murder of Hercule Poirot by Superintendent Spence.'  Enjoy it. <br /> <br />	2005-02-05
US	31406259	R1RGZQ2BYV9SGS	0060959819	584598882	America's Women	Books	5	18	18	N	N	Gripping from beginning to end	This is a fascinating, absorbing and thoroughly entertaining history of American women, starting with a mention of the Viking women Gudrun and Freydis, and working through to the present. <br /> <br />Some of the information in this book I was already familiar with, but most of it was new to me, and all of it was interesting.  I learnt some surprising things, I had no idea, for instance, that the first black people in America were free settlers, not slaves.   <br /> <br />some parts of the book are painful to read, you need a strong stomach to get through the chapter on women slaves, which is incredibly harrowing.  And there are some appalling details about domestic life, the horrors of medical treatment, , and the terible difficulties involved in keeping clean <br />in the pre-Civil War era.  It's a wonder women had the energy left to do anything at all apart from coping with the complications of domestic life. <br /> <br />In this book you will meet famous women like Pocahontas, Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Sojourner Truth, Annie Oakley, Lillian Russell, and many other lesser-known women.  You can admire their efforts to forge lives for themselves in the wilderness, to raise families, follow careers,and have their own adventures.It's thrilling to read the stories of the women who fought and spied in the revolutionary and civil wars, and the heroines of the Wild West. You can read of the struggle for political recognition,sometimes against almost insurmountable odds, especially in the case of black women, who were fighting racial as well as sexual prejudice in their efforts to gain legal right for themselves.  The story of Rosa Parks and how she started the Civil Rights movement simply by refusing to give up her seat on a bus is moving and thrilling. <br /> <br />Gail Collins tells the fascinating story of American womanhood in a lively, witty style that carries you easily through the book and leaves you wishing it were twice as long.	2005-01-26
US	31406259	R1XHMSBL2O7JSI	1854597396	422101235	The Tamer Tamed (RSC Classics)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Petruchio gets his comeuppance	This is a wonderfully funny sequel to Shakespeare's notorious comedy 'The Taming of the Shrew'. <br /> <br />Petruchio's wife Katherine has died, and he has married again, the gentle Maria.  However, Maria turns out to be not so gentle as he had imagined, and she is determined not to be bullied like Katherine was.  She locks Petruchio out of the house, and refuses to let him in until he agrees to her terms. She is aided in her rebellion by Bianca, Katherine's sister, who hates Petruchio for his treatment of Katherine, ahd her own younger sister Livia, who is more timorous than the other two, but eventually comes over to their side. <br /> <br />When Petruchio and his friends try to get into the house they are bombared with insults and have water poured over them.  \\"You have been famous for a woman-tamer, and have the reputation of a brave wife-breaker\\" Maria tells Petruchio \\"a woman now shall take those honours off, and tame you.\\" <br /> <br />Petruchio tries a series of desperate strategems, pretending to be ill, then that he is going away forever, then finally that he is dead, but he is outsmarted by Maria at every turn.  He at last gives in to her demands and agrees that he will not try to dominate her like he did Katherine, but that they will live in harmony.  In the eplogue, Maria says that men 'should not reign as tyrants o'er their wives' but nor should women 'insult or triumph, it being aptly meant, to teach both sexes due equality, and as they stand bound, to love mutually.' <br /> <br />This is a wonderful, funny play, with a marvellous heroine. Maria is clever and witty and brave and strong, a dazzling character.  This play deserves to be revived again and again. <br /> <br />	2004-11-28
US	31406259	RM523GE3YVXJ7	068480302X	441747587	Exorcising Your Ex: How to Get Rid of the Demons of Relationships Past	Books	5	2	4	N	N	It helped someone I know	This is a second-hand review as I haven't actually read the book myself, but I bought for someone who'd just broken up with her fiancee, and she says it helped her a lot.  She found it very funny and it cheered her up, what more could you ask?	2004-11-23
US	31406259	R3IMG6MXNFYCW0	0060584009	77217173	Metro Girl (Alex Barnaby Series #1)	Books	3	63	69	N	N	Not bad	Alex Barnaby is worried when her brother Bill, who is working in Miami, disappears along with his girlfriend Maria.  She finds herself reluctantly joining forces with Hooker, a handsome racing driver, whose boat Bill has stolen.  Together they set out to find the missing pair, helped and hindered by a variety of other characters. <br /> <br />This is quite a good story with some amusing moments, but I did not find it nearly as funny or exciting as the Stepahine Plum novels, none of the characters interested me very much, and the heroine, Alex, seemed insipid compared to Stephanie. <br /> <br />If you haven't read any Janet Evanovich books before, my advice would be to skip this one and go for the Plums, they are very much better than this.	2004-11-05
US	31406259	R3ESVH6TS255JX	0312990618	720199820	Agatha Raisin and the Case of the Curious Curate (Agatha Raisin Mysteries, No. 13)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Another murder for Agatha	Agatha Raisin is pleased when the glamorous new curate asks her out for dinner, but less pleased when he snubs her afterwards.  Then he is found murdered, and the Vicar, husband of Agatha's best friend, is under suspicion. <br /> <br />Agatha discovers that the curate had been obtaining money from people under false pretences, and that a lot of people had reason to dislike him, but which of them murdered him?  Agatha is helped in her investigation by her new next-door neighbour, handsome crime novelist John Armitage. <br /> <br />As usual, Agatha raises hackles with her blunt manners, and as usual she is worrying about her appearance and fretting over her vanished ex-husband James Lacey. Agatha is an exasperating but oddly endearing character, always described as having 'bearlike eyes' (I'm never sure what those are), and always yearning for some man or other.  This is an amusing addition to an entertaining series.	2004-10-28
US	31406259	R1FT5KR12C0FER	0375422986	960033606	The Sunday Philosophy Club : An Isabel Dalhousie Mystery	Books	3	92	111	N	N	An Edinburgh Mystery	Isabel Dalhousie is a quiet, refined lady philosopher.  One night at a concert a young man falls to his death,apparently accidentaly, but Isabel suspects otherwise and sets out to find out the truth.  She is helped some of the time by her niece, who has a hunky new boyfriend.  Isabel does not understand the appeal of hunks, which tells you all you need to know about Isabel.  She likes her niece's former boyfriend, who also helps her in in her investigations. <br /> <br />This is a quite pleasant but unmemorable mystery story with a rather lame ending.  Isabel is not nearly as interesting a character as Mma Ramotswe, and the story generally lacks the charm and humour of the Botswana-set No. 1 Ladies series.  Rather disappointing.	2004-10-26
US	31406259	R1SBPR6UCKB94F	0060925000	832364601	A Suitable Boy	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Superb Indian saga	This lengthy and fascinating novel is set in post-Independence India.  Lata is a young university student with a passion for Jane Austen and P.G. Wodehouse.  Her mother, who has succesfully married off her two older children, is anxious to find a 'suitable boy' for Lata. <br /> <br />Unfortunately, Lata has fallen for a most unsuitable boy, a fellow student. He is handsome, charming, intelligent - and a Muslim.  Lata is courted by two other young men, a handsome dilletante who writes poetry, and an ambitious shoemaker who wants to get on in the world. <br /> <br />This novel has several different sets of characters whose stories are interwoven and overlap, but it is Lata and her delightful family who made the most vivivd impression on me.  My favourite character is Lata's mother, warmhearted, eager and ambitious for her children, she is utterly charming. <br /> <br />This story is full of fascinating characters and gripping stories which unfold against a vividly realised Indian background. I don't normally enjoy reading very, very long novels, but I couldn't put this one down.	2004-10-10
US	31406259	R24SW6TRWJY1UF	1582344167	481973042	Jonathan Strange & Mr. Norrell	Books	1	21	47	N	N	I tried	I'd read such enthusiastic reviews of this novel that I wondered, as I started to read it, why I wasn't enjoying it more.  I persevered until the end of the first part, which at over 200 pages is longer than a lot of complete novels.  I just couldn't go on. <br /> <br />This is a dry as dust novel about English magicians during the Napoleonic wars.  Mr Norrell is a magician who wants to use his magic to help with the war effort, but finds himself using his magic to restore a dead young woman to life.  Then he finds that she has fallen into the power of the Fairy folk, as  has her black manservant.  I suppose one eventually gets to find out what will happen to the lady and her servant, but I just couldn't be bothered to wade through another 600 pages. <br /> <br />I did not find the characters or the plot at all interesting.  The men are dull, the women insipid, the plot boring. <br /> <br />If you want to read a really fun novel about magic in the Regency period, I recommend 'Sorcery and Cecelia' by Patricia C. Wrede and Caroline Stevermer, it's a lot more fun than this.	2004-10-10
US	31406259	R21T1NOTVRODS9	0060013168	224677970	Monstrous Regiment (Discworld)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	It's a girl's life in the army	Polly Perks runs away disguised as a boy to join the Borogrovian army in order to search for her missing brother Paul, who joined up the year before.  She is one of a motley number of new recruits who include a vampire, a troll, an Igor, and seveal other rather strange people.  They are looked after by the mighty Sergeant Jackrum, who keeps a fatherly eye on them all.  Polly soon finds out that she is not the only recruit with something to hide, and learns the importance of an extra pair of socks. <br /> <br />She finds herself acting as batman to the nervous Lieutenant Blouse, who dreams of achieving glory by having an article of clothing or food named after him.  The war is going badly for Borogrovia, and the enemy are getting the upper hand, but then the recruits devise a cunning plan for snatching victory from the jaws of defeat.  But Maladict the Vampire is having coffee withdrawl symptoms, and Wazzer is hearing voices in his head, and things are getting stranger all the time. <br /> <br />There are some good characters in this book, particularly the larger-than life Sergeant Jackrum, and some chracters from previous books pop up.  It's not quite as sombre as 'Night Watch', but it is a bit short on laughs compared to earlier Discworld novels, there are some funny bits, but they are rather few and far between.  This is a good book, but in my opinion could have done with a bit more humour.	2004-10-09
US	31406259	R8PIQK76JH71Q	0061020400	847958713	The Fifth Elephant (Discworld)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	One of the very best	This is one of my absolute favourite Discworld novels.  The Fifth elephant is the one that is supposed to have crashed onto the Discworld in ancient times, and all the mineral and fat deposits on the Discworld come from its body.  Commander Vimes of the Ankh-Morpork City Watch is reluctantly despatched to Uberwold to attend the coronation of the Low King of the Dwarves.  Lord Vetinari, the ruler of ankh-Morpork, want the goodwill of the dwarves so he can buy fat from the Uberwold mines.  Then the mystic Scone of Stone, on which all the Low Kings are crowned, goes missing, and Vimes needs to find it before the coronation. <br /> <br />Meanwhile Sergeant Angua the female werewolf is also on her way back to Uberwold to sort out some family troubles.  Cpatain Carrott sets off in purusit.  Soon Angua is caught up in a curious love triangle with the human Carrott and the wolf Gavin. Back in Ankh-Morpork Sergeant Colon has been put in charge of the watch, and it has gone to his head, watchemn are resigning and Nobby has started a Watchmens Union. <br /> <br />As well as the regular characters, there are some marvellous new ones in this book. My favourite is Lady Margalotta von Uberwold, an aristocratic vampire who is an old flame of Lord Vetinari, who has gone on the wagon 'vun bite voud alvays be vun too many' as she tells Vimes.  Then there is the Low King, who matches Vimes in cynicism.  And when Vimes has to go on the run from Angua's vengeful family, he takes refuge at the house of three gloomy sisters who sit looking out over their orchard and dreaming of life in the city (the youngest sister suggests cutting down the orchard to build a skating rink).  When Vimes asks them for clothing, they give him 'the gloomy and purposeless trousers of Uncle Vanya). <br /> <br />Pratchett can even get away with using very old humour.  The one about the wife trying to tell her husband she's pregnant and him not listening, how often has that been done?  But when it's Lady Sybill and Vimes it still seems funny.  And it's nice to see Lady Sybill having a more promient role in the story. <br /> <br />This is one of the funniest and best of the series.	2004-10-05
US	31406259	R13X71G8LK5NYQ	0060013133	123160839	Going Postal: A Novel of Discworld	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Terry Pratchett back on form	Moist von Lipwig is a thief and confidence trickster who is reprieved from hanging by Lord Vetinari, who wants Moist to take on the job of running the Ankh-Morpork postal service.  Moist imagines he can accept the job and then escape, but finds himself closely guarded by Mr Pump, a golum.  The Post Office used to be a flourishing institution but is now hoplelessly run down, the staff reduced to just Mr Groat, the oldest junior postman ever, Stanley, who has a passion for pins, and Mr Tiddles the cat. <br /> <br />In spite of himself, Moist becomes more and more involved in the task of rejuvenating the Post Office, but he has to contend with the rich and very nasty people who run the Grand Trunk Sempahore Company, and who don't want any rivals.  He also has to cope with a growing passion for Miss Adora Belle Dearheart, who runs the Golem Trust, and looks very good in a severly plain dress. <br /> <br />As the post Office grows more prosperous and successful, the tactics of the Grand Trunk Semaphore Company become progressively nastier, and Moist has to think up more and more ingeneous ways of combating their villainy.  Moist is a clever and intersting hero, and the supporting characters are good too.  we are also introduced to one of the Discworld's more interesting and unusual minor deities, Anoia, the Goddess of Things that get stuck in Drawers. <br /> <br />This latest episode in the Discworld saga is funnier and lighter than the two preceding novels, I'm glad Mr Pratchett's tone has grown less sombre.	2004-09-29
US	31406259	RXSJ73YT65JLT	0895260174	829131114	Unfit For Command: Swift Boat Veterans Speak Out Against John Kerry	Books	4	12	16	N	N	an astonishing book	This book eloquently and (to me) convincingly shows the difference between John Kerry's account of his Vietnam war experiences, and the reality of what actually happened.  If everything in this book is true, then John Kerry's version of his wartime career is at best gross exaggeration, and at worst outright lies.  It seems that most of the things he said he did he didn't, and that he lied shamelessly in order to acquire medals on very dubious grounds. The book also convincingly shows that Kerry's anti-war stance after his return from Vietnam did great harm to the course of the war and possibly even altered the outcome, not to mention causing great distress to those American servicemen suffering imprisonment in Vietnam. If what is said in this book is true, then Kerry isn't fit to be in charge of a newspaper stand, let alone the U.S.A. Is it ture or not?  Read the book and decide for yourself, personally I feel that the weight of evidence is against Kerry.	2004-09-22
US	31406259	R3SBO12XB88HLI	0445003227	665879150	Raising Demons	Books	5	3	3	N	N	More about the Jackson family	This is the sequel to  'Life among the savages', which describes the trials and tribulations of raising four children.  Here we have more about the Jackson children as they grow older and more complex.  Shirely jackson is wonderful at describing the weird behaviour of children, and the sometimes even weirder behaviour of adults.  There's a wonderful description of the tensions that occur between mothers while watching a Little League baseball match in which her older son is playing, and a very funny account of a trip to New York, where her daughter Sally has her own unique view of the Empire State Building.  Shirely Jackson describes the ups and downs of family life with great humour and a complete lack of sentimentality.  She is very sound on the subject of husbands.  Writing about the trials of being a faculty wife, she says \\"naturally a husband presents enormour irritations no matter what he is doing\\" (how could anyone argue with that?) Whether she is writing about a dangerous refrigerator, a daughter who does magic, or a husband judging a beauty contest, she is always very entertaining and very funny.	2004-09-10
US	31406259	R1VYPLHO9IIK5W	015204616X	120914957	The Grand Tour	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Enjoyable Regency fantasy	This is the another book set in a Regency period in which magic is part of everyday life, and magicians are everywhere.  Cousins Kate and Cecy (the heroines of 'Sorcery and Cecelia) are now married and are on their honeymoon with their husbands James and Thomas.  As they travel across Europe, mysterious things begin to happen.  There are several murders, and various magical objects go missing.  Kate, Cecy, and their husbands have to try and find out what is going on and how to stop it.  This is a lively story with good characters and plenty of humour and excitement, but there are rather too many sentimental scenes between the married couples, which are a bit of a bore.  On the whole, I agree with the previous reviewers who say this is not as much fun as the earlier book, but it is still an entertaining read.	2004-09-06
US	31406259	R2LA9Q6GBJKWJD	0060763957	967480762	Michael Moore Is a Big Fat Stupid White Man	Books	5	29	38	N	N	For anyone who's had more than enough of Moore	This is a very entertaining and informative look at the career of Michael Moore, showing to what an extent his books and films have distorted the truth.  There is startling evidence of how he deliberately altered the facts in his first hit film 'Roger and Me', and even more blatantly in 'Bowling for Columbine'  His books also come in for some severe criticism, and there are some very amusing accounts of his petulant outbursts whenever anyone dares to disagree with him.  Michael Moore, as portrayed in this book, is a deeply unattractive character, manipulative, dishonest, and frighteningly self-absorbed.  The most amusing chapter in the book is 'And the Oscar for Acting Out goes to-' which discusses Moore' rampant Narcissism.  This is a thoroughly enlightening and enjoyable book for anyone who has had an overdose of Moore and his facile opinions.	2004-09-03
US	31406259	RW29GOS0U3Z4R	0743482913	670960392	Pasta Imperfect: A Passport to Peril Mystery	Books	3	4	7	N	N	Death in Italy	Emily Andrews is a tour guide who escorts groups of elderly Iowans abroad.  In this, the thrid volume in the series, she is taking them to Italy.  They are sharing their tour with a group of romance writers hoping to win a contest.  There is a lot of jealousy and backbiting among the romance writers, then things start to go really wrong.  First there is a fire in the hotel where the group is staying, then some of the romance writers start to turn up dead. The plot is extremly far-fetched, and the solution highly improbable, but there are some amusing characters, particularly Jack, Emily's ex-husband, wyho has had a sex change and is now Jackie.  I was a bit startled to read the review on the back of this book which says that this series is as funny as anything by Janet Evanovich.  This series is mildly amusing, but the books are nothing like as funny as those of janet Evanovich.	2004-09-02
US	31406259	R3QIWXYXLFKSL7	0804111626	874381175	Agatha Raisin and the Vicious Vet (Agatha Raisin Mysteries, No. 2)	Books	3	8	9	N	N	Agatha investigates again	This is the second book in the series about Agatha Raisin, who has worked all her life in Public Relations, and retired early to live in a picturesque country village.  In this episode, an attractive local vet, very popular with the ladies, dies suddenly, apparently of an accident.  Agatha  is convinced that it's murder.  She manages to get her neighbour, James Lacey (on whom she has a crush)interested, and together they investigate. It turns out that some of the ladies the vet charmed had a grudge against him, and one of them dies suddenly in suspicious circumstances, giving strength to Agatha's murder theory.This is quite an amusing series.  Agatha is an entertaining chracter, though I would prefer it if she was a bit more independent.  I find her frantic, blatant pursuit of James Lacey a bit pathetic, I would prefer it if she was more independent.  I can't imagine Miss Marple pursuing her neighbour so desperately.	2004-09-02
US	31406259	R14I1SUM5VDDCS	0140267670	101899238	Life Among the Savages	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Demonic children	This is Shirley Jackson's hilarious account of her struggles raising an expanding family of children.  She is delightfully unsentimental in her account of family life, and any harassed parent will recognise the situations she finds herself in.  For instance, what parent hasn't suffered the anguish of trying to eat in a restaurant with young children, how well Shirely Jackson sums of the sheer horror of that situation, among many others.  I didn't think there could ever be a book about child-raising as funny as Jean Kerr's 'Please Don't Eat the Daisies' but this one runs it a very close second.	2004-08-22
US	31406259	RLC82PZJT7PO3	0060096160	664876635	Teen Idol (Teen's Top 10 (Awards))	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Charming romatic comedy	Jenny Greenley is everybody's friend at her high school, but nobody knows her secret, that she is also the Agony Aunt on the school newspaper.  Nobody knows that is except the paper's dishy editor, Scott Bennett.  Jenny has been secretly in love with Scott ever since fifth grade, and who can blame her?  He's not only dishy and a sci-fi fan, but a great cook as well.  But how can he know she likes him  when she seems to like everybody?  Jenny's life changes dramatically when a gorgeous film star, Luke Striker, comes to the school anonymously,researching a part and Jenny has to guide him through the perils of school life.  Luke has to leave the school when his cover is blown at a school carwash (one of the funniest scenes in the book).  But before he goes he manages to convince Jenny that she has the power not just to be everyone's friend, but to actually be an influence for good in the school.  Soon Jenny finds herself doing things like helping a bullied girl to stand up for herself, recovering a kidnapped doll, and resigning from the hated school choir.  But will she get the boy of her dreams?  Well, you know Meg Cabot would never let us down, don't you?  This book is not only funny, but also has some genuinely touching and dramatic scenes, like the bit where the bullied girl outfaces her tormentors, or the bit where Jenny leaves the choir (my favourite scene)The book is not as hilarious as the Princess Diaries, but I think it is possibly Meg Cabot's best book so far.  If you've enjoyed her other books you will certainly enjoy this one, and if haven't read them yet, you'll want to once you've read this one.	2004-08-22
US	31406259	R24XZ8B8Z56KP7	0152163913	421556126	Mightier Than the Sword: World Folktales for Strong Boys	Books	4	22	23	N	N	Stories of clever boys	This is an excellent collection of folktales featuring heroes who overcome adversity using their wits rather than brute force.  My six-year-old son absolutely loves this book, his favourite story is The Devil with Three Golden Hairs, but he loves them all.  I enjoy reading most of the stories to him myself, though I admit I found a couple of them a little dull, but most of them are wonderful. The stories come from many different cultures, but all feature clever, likeable heroes .This book should appeal to any boy with imagination.	2004-08-19
US	31406259	R2T12R6UFUA5OK	0912670509	46764679	Tatterhood and Other Tales	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Wonderful collection of heroic women	This is one of the best collections of fairy tales featuring strong and enterprising hereoines.  It includes stories from may different cultures, but all feature clever, resourceful women who overcome adversity.  some of the stories were already familiar to me, but many I'd never read before.  If you thought all fairy tale heroines were ninnies like Cinderella and snow White, you need to read this excellent book and discover women like Kate Crackernuts, Clever Manka, Sea Girl, and the Three Strong Women.	2004-08-19
US	31406259	R243KDOACCEUYI	0152020470	269173534	Not One Damsel in Distress: World Folktales for Strong Girls	Books	4	21	24	N	N	No soppy heroines here	This is an excellent collection of stories featuring clever, adventurous heroines.  some of the stories were already familiar to me, like Burd Janet and Molly Whuppie, but others I'd never read before, like The Pirate Princess, and The Samurai Miaden.  Unlike previous reviewers, I didn't find the stories either boring or too violent.  the stories come from a wide variety of different cultures, but all feature enterprising, strong heroines.  This book should appeal to any girl who would like to read about less passive heroines than Cinderella, Sleeping Beauty etc.	2004-08-19
US	31406259	R2RBTNKKYMVFVR	0689868456	122451940	Code Name Cassandra (1-800-Where-R-You)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Mystery and Music	Sixteen-year-old  tomboy Jess claims to have lost her amazing ability to find missing children (gained when she was struck by lightning).  The FBI is not convinced though, and agents Smith and Johnson are still trailing her.  Jess takes a job as a councillor at a summer camp for gifted musical children, and finds herself in charge of a cabinful of very rowdy boys.  To make matters worse, one of the teachers at the camp discovers her guilty secret (not her psychic ability, her other guilty secret)Then a distraught father turns up at the camp, begging Jess to find his missing daughter.  Jess can't resist helping him, but she needs the assistance of hunky Rob Wilkins, whose girlfriend she would like to be (if only he could overcome his scruples over their age difference).  Finding the gilr plunges Jess into real danger though, as she becomes the target for a homicidal maniac.  This is an exciting, fun mystery with lots of suspence and humour.  Jess is a very likeable heroine, and Rob wilkins is utterly gorgeous (I do hope Jess manges to get him to forget the age difference).	2004-08-17
US	31406259	R3KLBK0GIGW97	0689868278	549642303	When Lightning Strikes (1-800-where-r-you)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Fun mystery	Sixteen-year-old Jess is a stroppy tomboy given to punching people who annoy her,consequently she spends a lot of time in detention, where she drools over gorgoues, hunky Rob Wilkins.  Butr Rob is aGrit, a country boy, and Jess is a Townie, and they're not supposed to mix (I found this quite shocking, whatever happened to All Men Are Created Equal?  Whatever happend to Democracy?). One day walking home after school, Jess is struck by lightning.  She finds that this has given her the uncanny ability to find missing children, she looks at the pictures on the milk cartons, and then in the night she dreams exactly where the children are. She tries to remain anonymous, but soon the FBI are after her, wanting her to use her unusual talent to track down wanted criminals.  And she finds she has made a mistake over one of the children she found, it turns out he didn't want to be found, and she has to put things right for him.  She needs the gorgeous Rob to help her.  This book isn't as funny as the 'Princess Diaries' but it is a very entertaining and exciting mystery, and Ruth is a very likeable heroine.  Disgracefully, I found myself drooling over Rob too, even though I'm old enough to be his mother, I do hope Ruth manages to persuade him to overcome his scruples over their age difference (he's eighteen) and go out with her!	2004-08-17
US	31406259	RCHKXTVQP38MZ	0060586605	863190678	A Hat Full of Sky	Books	4	3	3	N	N	What makes a real witch?	Tiffany Aching, heroine of 'The Wee Free Men' leaves home and goes be apprentice to the witch Miss Level, who has a very unusual talent.  Tiffany is rather bored by the mundane duties required of her by Miss Level, and meets some other, flashier witches who seem to have a different idea of what witchcraft is about, but who is right? Meanwhile a mysterious and apparently maligant force is after Tiffany, attracted by her strong magical powers.  The valiant and belligerent little Nac Mac Feegle set out to rescue her, and Granny Weatherwax too has an interest in Tiffany.  I enjoyed this book more than 'The Wee Free Men' I thought it was funnier and had a more intersting plot, with a number of unexpected twists.  Great fun, full of humour, magic,suspense and amusing characters.	2004-08-14
US	31406259	R36G6Y69LRCQ6C	0006542018	878727849	Love is Blue: A Wartime Diary (Flamingo)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	More hilarious wartime memoirs	In this book Joan Wyndham continues the saga of her wartime life and loves begun in 'Love Lessons', and this one is as funny and fascinating as the earlier book.  Joan has joined the WAAF, and is still having encounters with a variety of different men, artistic Petya, pretentious Zoltan, aristocratic Hamish, Norwegian Hans, and the very sexy Kit.  One of the funniest bits in the book is her encounter with a very drunk Dylan Thomas, who first kisses her in a taxi, then tries to break into her apartment.  She encounters him again the next morning while sober, and tries to talk to him about his poetry.  But he isn't interested, telling her that poetry isn't the most important thing \\"I'd much rather lie in a hot bath sucking boiled sweets and reading Agatha Christie.\\" She decides that Dylan is very nice provided you only see him in the mornings. Then there is Vlady, the dashing Polish pilot who makes a pass at her while flying his plane \\"it's the first time I've ever had my bottom pinched at 3,000 feet.\\"  Hilarious, fascinating and gripping from beginning to end.	2004-08-14
US	31406259	R1R7CT4ZTZG2MW	0425105679	114982310	Cards on the Table (Hercule Poirot Mysteries)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	One of the cleverest Poirot mysteries	This is an unusual mystery in that it has an equal number of suspects and detectives (four in each case).  Poirot is invited to dinner and bridge by an eccentric acquaintance, Mr Shiatana.  When he arrives he finds three other detectives have been invited, enigmatic Superintendant Battle of Scotland Yard, Colonel Race of the Secret Service, and Mrs Ariadne Oliver, a writer of detective stories.  The four murderers are an elderly widow, Mrs Lorrimer, dashing, adventurous Major Despard, bluff Dr. Roberts, and Anne Meredith, a young seemingly innocent girl.  The two parties, murderers and detectives, settle down to play bridge in separate rooms, Mr Shiatana sits by the fire in the murderers' room, and in the course of the evening he is duly murdered.  The four detectives set out to solve the crime.  As with all Christie novesl there are plenty of humorous touches.  One of my favourites is when Superintedant Battle calls for one of the suspects.  \\"I should have kept him to the end\\" said Mrs Oliver \\"In a book, I mean\\" she added apologetically. \\"Real life's a bit different\\" said Battle.  \\"I know\\" said Mrs Oliver. \\"Badly constructed.\\" The detecives find out a lot about their suspects, including the nature of the murders they committed in the past(one of them turns out to be innocent of any murder).  There are lots of exciting plot twists, and you are kept guessing until the end.  I understand it is possible to work out the identity of the murderer by studying the bridge scores reproduced in the book, if you understand bridge that is.  I don't, but it doesn\\"t matter, this is a thrilling story anyway, one of the best Mrs Christie wrote.	2004-08-06
US	31406259	R2P8SVPW1J9RJ7	0316962511	241723646	Love Lessons: A Wartime Diary	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Fascinating and funny wartime memoir	Joan Wyndham's colourful and enthralling wartime diary covers the period from August 1939 to May 1941.  Not quite seventeen at the outbreak of war, she has been raised a good Catholic but is nevertheless eager to experience the sins of the flesh.  She encounters a number of eccentric, bizarre and outrageous men before finally falling for glamorous, impossible Rupert.  The story of her cheqeured sex life is interwoven with vivid and fascinatign descriptions of London bohemian life among artists, writers, actors and philosophers.  Much of it is very funny, yet tragedy is never far away.  For instance, there is a delightful description of dancing at the Cafe de Paris to Ken 'Snakehips' Johnson and his band, then a few chapters later comes the stark tragedy of the bombing of the Cafe, with Ken and all but one of his band killed.  Joan's ups and downs with love, friends, family and food are vividly and charmingly described.  The book ends with her joining the Wrens, you can read about her adventures as a Wren in the equally entrancing sequel to this book 'Love is Blue'.	2004-08-06
US	31406259	R2CVZH2W5R0J4N	0670033596	795101432	Something Rotten	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Thursday rides again	The Thursday Next series is set in a parallel world where literature is of supreme importance to everyone.  People flock to Shakespeare's plays as eagerly as in our world they flock to football matches, and organised crime revolves around forged manuscripts, stolen first editions, etc.  Thursday Next has spent two years as head of Jurisfiction, her job being to make the characters in novels behave as their authors intended, and not start doing their own thing (in Thursday's world, fictional characters have lives of their own).  Thursday decides she needs to return to the real world with her two-year-old son Friday.  She is still hoping to get her husband Landen back, he was erradicated by the Goliath Corporation, an immensely wealthy, powerful and dangerous organisation. She is accompanied on her return to reality by Hamlet, who has come to find out what people in the real world really think of him.  He goes to stay with Thursday's mothere, who also has Lady Hamilton and Otto von Bismark as house guests.  Very strange things are happening in the real world, the Goliath Corporation is trying to turn itself into an organised religion, a fictional character, Yorrick Kaine, is trying to get himself elected President, and someone is trying to assasinate Thursday. Like the previous volumes in this series, this book has an exciting, complicated and ingeneous plot, culminating in a thrilling and very dramatic croquet match, in which a reluctant Thursday finds herself having to play for Swindon.  There are lots of amusing characters and humorous incidents, especially when the fictional characters get mixed up in the 'real' world.  Great fun.	2004-08-05
US	31406259	R1V80F6VUKK1GP	0765303086	124646762	A Scholar of Magics (College of Magics)	Books	4	7	10	N	N	Fun magical mystery	Like Stevermer's earlier book 'A College of Magics' this is set in the early 20th century in a parallel universe where magic is part of everyday life.  Samuel Lambert is a sharpshooter from Wyoming, who is invited to Glasscastle university (Glastonbury?), a very exclusive establishment for teaching magic to young men of the right background.  His talents a marksman are required for the mysterious Agincourt Prjoect, which is top-secret.  He makes friends with a student called Nicholas Fell, and meets the provost's attractive siter Jane (from 'A College of Magics'), a teacher of mathematics at Greenlaw,a women's magical college in Normandy.Jane has a message for Nicholas Fell, he is to be the new Warden of the West (a sort of magical guardian) but he doesn't want to be.  Strange things begin to happen, the Agincourt Prjoect is cancelled, and Nicholas Fell and Jane's brother Robert both disappear.  jane and Lambert set out to find them, then Jane disappears herself, and Lambert has to track her down as well, and try and figure out who the villains are.  This is a very enjoyable story, with a clever plot, interesting characters and plenty of magic and humour.  One of my favourite bits is where Lambert fells the villain with a well-aimed cricket ball.  lambert is an amiable hero, and Jane is an attractive and interesting heroine, despite her passion for reckless driving.And unlike the earlier book, this one has an upbeat ending.  Great fun.	2004-07-29
US	31406259	R38W8ZVNWUU14R	0786703407	40369028	Tour de Force (Brand, Christianna)	Books	3	4	6	N	N	Mystery in the Mediterranean	Inspector Cockrill goes abroad for the first time on a conducted tour of Italy.  His companions on the holiday are a very mixed bunch, a famous novelist, an embittered former concert pianist who lost his right arm in an accident, accompanied by his long-suffering wife, a flamboyant fashion designer, a prim spinster and a quiet and apparently innocuous young woman, Vanda Lane.  When the group is staying on a small meditteranean island, one of the party is murdered, and it falls to Inspector Cockrill to find out who, the local police being worse than useless.  I cannot help agreeing with a previous reviewer who says that this is no Agatha Christie.  Although the story is quite clever and the characters not without interest, I couldn't help thinking as I was reading it how much more amusing it would have been had Christie written it.  The women in particular are all sad, desperate and lovesick, there are none of the strong female characters Christie enjoyed creating, no eager, adventurous young girls or good-humoured, independent spinsters. And Poirot would have enjoyed himself on the holiday much more than Cockrill. And the denoument is just too far-fetched to be believable, even Christie might have had trouble pulling it off.	2004-07-29
US	31406259	R3R4BT8ZRAK2OP	074750234X	21536390	Amanda and the Eleven Million Mile High Dancer	Books	4	4	4	N	N	strange and funny fantasy	Amanda Jaworski is an astronaut who is destined to be the first person to land on Mars. She is brilliant, beautiful, eccentric and sexy.  She owns a strange cat called Schrodinger who is asleep nearly all the time.  She is torn between the love of two men, sexy pilot Bronco McCloud, and intense engineer Donald Hoskiss.  Very weird things begin to happen in the area, all the Indians disapear from the local reservation, much to the bafflement of Sheriff Eberly, there are bizarre disruptions with the weather, sinsiter robots appear from nowhere, and Schrodinger starts to do some very odd things indeed.  Will amanda ever get to Mars?  This book is a peculiar but engaging mixture of fantasy, science fiction, mystery, physics,  philosophy, and enough touches of humour to stop it getting too pretentious.	2004-07-25
US	31406259	R1YBY70I2GRQFU	0436086107	790275266	The Harpole report	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Tribulations of a Temporary  headteacher	George Harpole is reluctantly forced to take on the role of temporary headteacher of St. Nicholas C.E.  (Assisted) Primary School in Tamppling, a small town somewhere in the English Midlands. His staff consist of elderly, inflexible Mr. Pintle, stuffy, snobbish Mrs Grindle-Jones, smug young Mr. Croser, eccentric Miss Tollemache, and a young temporary teacher fresh from Cambridge, Emma Foxberrow, who holds strong progressive views on education and everything else, not to mention Mr Theaker, the dreaded School Caretaker. During his time as headteacher, Harpole valiantly tackles a number of tricky problems involving teachers, pupils, parents, school governors and various other people.  He manages to reform a bullying father, do away with the 'Backwards' class, persuade Miss Foxberrow to run the  school sports day, and even outwit the dreadful Mr Theaker on a couple of occasions.  He tackles a terrible family called the Widmerpools, who consist of eleven children, their parents, and Alfred, a mysterious man who spends all his time washing the family's clothes.  'It is enough that I have the Washing' he tells Harpole.The book is told in the fomr of entries from Harpole's journal, comments on the journal made by an independent educaiton expert, and letters between Harpole and various other characters.  It is an achingly funny book, with wonderful characters, hilarious dialogue, outrageous situations, and laughs on every page.  One of the funniest books I've ever read.	2004-07-18
US	31406259	R10OH60LRRYT40	0060507772	373959935	The Last Hero: A Discworld Fable	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Pratchett at his best	Unlike some of the more recent Discworld novels, which have been a bit on the sombre side for my taste, this one is pure, delightful comedy.  Cohen the Barbarian and his Silver Horde are heading for Cori Celeste, home of the gods, with an explosive device, with which they intend to blow up the gods and themselves, going out in a blaze of glory.  En route they kidnap an unwilling mistrel and take him with them, determined he shall write the saga of their glorious end, whether he likes it or not.  They are also joined by their old friend Harry, an Evil Dark Lord who has fallen on hard times, and Mrs McGarry, a woman warrior who is now a grandmother.  One of the funniest bits is where they are discussing what has become  some of their old foes.  Pamdar the Witch Queen, according to Cohen &quot;runs a shop now.  Pam's Pantry.  Makes marmalade.&quot;  &quot;What? She used to queen it on a throne on top of a pile of skulls!&quot;  &quot;I didn't say it was very GOOD marmalade.&quot;  Meanwhile Lord Vetinari is determined to stop the Silver Horde blowing up the gods and possibly destroying the entire Discworld.  He gets eccentric inventor Leonardo of Quirm to make a flying machine, powered by dragons, and sends an expedition consisting of Leonardo, Carrot, and a reluctant Rincewind, to try and stop Cohen &amp; Co. (the Librarian goes along as a stowaway).Vetinari instructs Carrot to stop Cohen by any means possible. &quot;Force is always the last resort, sir&quot; says Carrot.  &quot;I believe that for Cohen it's the first choice&quot; says Vetinari. &quot;He's not too bad if you don't come up behind him suddenly&quot; says Ricnewind.  Up in space, Carrot waxes sentimental looking at the Discworld &quot;From up here you can't see the boundaries between nations&quot; he says wistfully.  Leonardo and Rincewind, misunderstanding his point, immediately start thinking of ways this drawback could be remedied, like painting the boundaries in bright colours, growing forests in theshape of names of countries etc.  Cohen and the Horde decide to get themselves into Cori Celeste by disguising themselves as gods, the god of fish, the god of stuff, the god of being sick etc.  Once inside, they encounter some familiar deities like Blind Io, Offler the Crocodile God, and of course the Lady.  They also meet some lesser-known ones like Nuggin, a horrid little god whose followers are forbidden garlic, ginger, mushrooms, and worst, of all, chocolate. Can Carrot get there in time to stop Cohen blowing everyone up?  Read this deliciously funny book and find out.  It's a wonderful story, and is illustrated throughout with the most beautiful pictures by Paul Kidby.	2004-07-15
US	31406259	R1X8MEKLMYS35K	0061007358	688716919	Not a Penny More, Not a Penny Less	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Amusing tale of a swindler swindled	Harvey Metcalfe, an unscrupulous American businessman, cons four different men into between them investing a million dollars in a dud oil company, Prospecta Oil.  Then the oil company vanishes along with the money.  The four men get together and decide to recover their lost money by in turn swindling Harvey for the exact amount he took from them - hence the title, not a penny more, not a penny less.  They all come up with complex, cunning schemes for getting omeny out of Harvey, and carry out each scheme in turn.  The first one, involving a very sahdy art deal, was my favourite, but they are all clever, though several of them come close to failure.  There are several clever plot twists in this story, and a very amusing ending.  I felt that the characters were a bit indistinct, none of them struck me as particulalry memorable, but in a story of this kind the plot is the thing, and the plot in this one is amusing and gripping enough to keep you turning the pages until the end, and the ending is very good.	2004-07-09
US	31406259	R8QU7MAYIPW07	0671479989	621219797	Mash	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A different M.A.S.H.	The novel is strikingly different in many ways from the film and the TV series which followed it.  Some of the charcters are entirely different from the way they were portrayed in the move and Tv series.  For instance, Colonel Blake and Father mulchahey are both much tougher characters than they are portrayed as being in the later vehicles.  Major Houlihan doesn't play nearly such an important role in the book as she does in the film or series. Trapper and Hawkeye are like and yet not like their later versions.  The book is very funny however and is well worth reading, and it is very interesting to compare it with the later and quite different versions.  I don't know how Richard Hooker felt about the changes made to his characters in the later versions, but certainly this, the original book that started it all, should be read by any fan of the other versions.	2004-07-07
US	31406259	R9CHRG1NDC3AM	1567313736	13057156	Uppity Women of Shakespearean Times	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Renaissance Women Again	I bought this book under the impression that it was  one I hand't read, but in fact it is 'Uppity Women of the Renaissance' under a different title.  It is a very amusing book,, with lots of interesting information about women of the 16th and 17th centuries, but if you already have 'Uppity women of the Renaissance' don't bother to buy this one, because its' the same book.	2004-07-07
US	31406259	R5QGPOOYGI1D3	0061020699	863190678	Equal Rites	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Whatever happened to Esk?	Drum Billett, an elderly wizard, is dying, and is waiting to pass on his magical staff to the newborn eighth son of an eight son before he expires.  Unfortunately, the eighth son turns out to be a daughter, but Drum Billett finds this out too late, he's already given her the staff.  Eskarina grows up showing signs of having strong magical powers, so her perplexed parents apprentice her to the witch Granny Weatherwax (making her first apperance in the saga).  Granny becomes convinced that Esk really does have wizard powers, so they set off on the long journey to Ankh-Morpork to try and convince the wizards of Unseen University that Esk is fit to be a wizard.  Nobody at Unseen University has any time for Esk, except a young apprentice wizard called Simon.  It seems there are sinister forces at work in the university, and only Esk and Simon can stop them.  Granny Weatherwax is a less complex character in this book than she later becomes, but still formidable.  The magical battle between Granny and Cutangle, the chancellor of the University, is one of the highlights of the book.  One thing about this story ahs always puzzled me though.  At the end of the book, Cutanlge decides that Esk can be admitted to the University, and he is considering admitting more female students.  He even suggest an exchange programme with Granny Weatherwax (with whom he seems rather smitten).  But in subsequent Discworld novels, the charming Esk has vanished without trace, and Unseen University is as much a male bastion as ever.  I wonder why?  This was the first Discworld novel I ever read, and it is still one of my favourites.	2004-07-06
US	31406259	R2AALCBE47M22N	0807075086	498647430	Am I a Woman? A Skeptic's Guide to Gender	Books	2	4	10	N	N	Cynthia Eller worries about being a woman	In this book Cynthia Eller discusses what it means to be a woman today, and how much a woman's behaviour is affected by what society expects of her etc.  My trouble with this book was that Ms. Eller worries a good deal about things that have never worried me at all.  For instance, it had never occured to me that because I don't care for cooking or lipstick or shoes, this mad me not a woman.  She frets a lot about whether a woman should shave her legs, whether it's all right for little girls to like Barbies, or for little boys to like Barbies etc.  She's very anxious to tell us how boring she found being at home with her children when they were babies (feminists always like you to know this, it's the Betty Friedan effect, no woman should ever admit to enjoying being at home).  She comes up with a lot of statistics to prove how awful things are for women, for instance she tells us that 683,000 rapes occur each year in the USA, though not more than 16 percent are ever reported.  I can't help wondering how, if they're not reported, we can possibly know that they have occured?  I'm sure a lot of women will find this book interesting, even helpful, but I'm afraid it bored me.  I thought her previous book &quot;The Myth of Matriarchal Prehistory&quot; was brilliant, but this I found tedious.	2004-07-05
US	31406259	R2D0DW5QFQIGO2	0440212316	797718538	Thus Was Adonis Murdered	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Brilliantly funny whodunnit	This is the first of Sarah Caudwell's dazzling series of legal whodunnits narrated by Hilary Temple, Oxford professor of Legal History.  Hilary's friends are a group of young barristers in Chancery Lane, her former pupil, Timothy, the elegant and austere Ragwort, imaginative, impulisve Cantrip, Selena, who is like 'a Persian cat that has just completed a succesful cross-examination', and romantic, suceptible, accident-prone Julia.  Julia is having some unplesantness with the Tax man, so she decides to get away from it all by going on an Art Lovers tour of Italy.  Here she succumbs to the charms of a grgeous young man called Ned.  Then one day, after she has enjoyed an afternoon of passion with Ned, she finds him dead in bed.  Ned was an employee of the Inland Revenue, which means, as Ragwort reasonably points out, that anyone might have murdered him.  Unfortunatley, however, Julia is chief suspect, so her friends set out to prove her innocence.  They track down the other participants on the Art Lovers tour to try and get at the truth.  Cantrip has to interview a dodgy art dealer, the Major, who spends their time together telling Cantrip all about the women in his life.  &quot;He's known a lot of women.  The right sort of women, the wrong sort of women.  Wome who would, women who wouldn't, women who might have.  He told me about them all.&quot;  This is an absolutely wonderful book, ingeneous, complex plot, funny and likeable characters, witty dialogue, and a laugh in just about every paragrah.	2004-07-04
US	31406259	R319ZS8BHB5BN4	0061020613	532931410	Witches Abroad	Books	5	2	2	N	N	My favourite Pratchett	This is definitely my favourite Discworld novel.  Magrat Garlick, the slightly wet witch, is unexpectedly landed with the job of being a Fairy Godmother.  Her job is to go to Genua and prevent her goddaughter Ella from marrying the Duc of Genua.  Naturally Granny Weatherwax and Nanny Ogg decide to accompany her.  Their journey across the Discoworld to Genua is full of hilarious incidents.  One of the best is when they are rowing a boat down an underground river, and encounter a sinister Golum-like character.  Granny Weatherwax wacks him over the head with an oar.  Now if only Tolkein had thought of that!  There is a wonderful incident where they are staying at a village inn, completely oblivious to the fact that the village is being terrorised by a vampire.  The vampire is out to get Magrat, but fails miserably, and ends up inside Greebo, Nanny Ogg's horrible cat. &quot;Vampires have risen from the grave, the crypt, and the tomb, but have never managed it from the cat&quot;.  Then there's the bit on the riverboat where Granny Weatherwax plays Cripple Mr Onion with a group of professional gmablers and takes them all to the cleaners.  When they finally arrive in Genua (which rather resembles New Orleans) they find the city being terrorised by Lilith di Tempsicore, the sinister power behind the Duc, who has a nasty secret.  They join forces with Voodoo woman Erzulie Gogol in order to outwit Lilith, but can they succed?  This is a wonderfuly funny book with  an ingeneous plot,lots of memorable incidents and marvellous characters.  As well as the witches themselves there is Mrs Gogol, Mrs Pleasant the  Palace Cook, Cassanunda the amorous dwarf, and Ella, who does not want to marry the Duc. Absolutely marvellous.	2004-07-03
US	31406259	R1W3GEUCWHYHA6	0312143370	458150730	The Florence King Reader	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Delightful collection of King	This book is incredibly good value.  Not only does it contain extracts from all Miss King's hilarious books, Southern Ladies and Gentlemen, Confessions of a Failed Southern Lady, Reflections ina Jaundiced eye etc, but it contains the WHOLE of her wonderful novel 'When Sisterhood was in Flower' which sends up the wilder shores of Feminism so hilariously.  Also there are lots of previously uncollected articles and book reviews, most of which I hadn't read before.  There's even a chapter from her bodice-ripper &quot;The Barbarian Princess&quot; the writing of which is so amusingly described in 'Reflections in a Jaundiced Eye'.  Lack of space means you won't find all your favourite passages here (for my money, the chapter 'The Sperm and I' in He:an Irreverent look at the American Male' is one of the funniest things she's ever written), but there is enough to keep any King fan happy for days.  If you haven't before encountered Miss King's waspish wit and disdain for practically everyone and everything, this is a good place to start.	2004-07-03
US	31406259	RXQKF9MDXI5XN	0719562090	836073252	A Very Peruvian Practice: Travels With LA Senora	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Very Peruvian Pleasure	In this delightful book John Lane describes the time he spent as adviser to the Ladies Health Care Clinic in Lima.  The Clinic has been built by the remarkable La Senora Pandora del Teodosia Zapallo-Chupado Palermo Bonomini for her husband, Dr. Hermogenese.  'Our clinic is mainly for the expecting woman' La Senora explains.  John Lane finds himself plunged into an eccentric and fascinating world, at the heart of which is the enchanting Senora.  A dedicated shopper, she explains &quot;I only buy what I need.  The trouble is, I need everything&quot;  There now! Exactly how I feel about shopping myself, if only my husband could understand.  Under the charismatic influence of La Senora, John Lane finds himself dressing up as a ballet dancer to perform at a carnival, dressed as Father Christmas distributing presents from the clinic roof, taking part in a bullfight, and getting involved in other alarming escapades.  Meanwhile the struggle to finance the clinic continues, &quot;I don't know why there are so many banks here&quot; La Senora remarks &quot;for nobody has any money&quot;.  John Lane does not ignore the problems of life in Peru, he writes of the poverty, the high crime level, and the massive government corruption.  Nevertheless, so beguiling does he make Peru in general and the clinic in particular appear, that by the end of the book, when he finally leaves, you wonder how he could bear to leave this wonderful place and these extraordinary and fascinating people.An absolute delight.	2004-07-03
US	31406259	RRJEVG6FNSA1W	0156421178	802050474	Homage to Catalonia	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Extraordinary account of the Spanish Civil War	I was put off Orwell at an early age by reading 1984 and Animal Farm, both of which I found terribly depressing.  Thirty years later, I finally got around to reading 'Homage to Catalonia' and I wish I hadn't waited so long because it is absolutely fascinating.  Orwell's account of fighting on the front line during the war is really reamrkable.  It is astonishing to earn what an absolute shambles the war was, with soldiers armed with hopleessly antiquated weapons.  The Republican and Nationalist front lines were so far apart that most of the time they can't even fire at each other, being too far apart to score a hit, so they are reduced to shouting propoganda at each other through megaphones.  I had no idea Orwell could be funny, at times reading this book is like reading a scenario for a farcical comedy. You get a good sense of the privations and squalor of life in the front line, also, surprisingly, the cold (it had honestly never occured to me that Spain was ever cold). There is an incredibly vivivd description of how Orwell felt when he got shot in action.  Away from the front, Orwell is shocked to discover that the Republicans seem to be more interested in fighting each other than the Nationalists.  The Communists begin to act vindictively towards the Trotskyists and members of POUM, the organisation under whose banner Orwell had fought.  He describes his horror as he sees men who had given up everything to go and fight for the Republic, treated as criminals by the Republican army.  There is a very funny scene where he describes how his hotel room is searched by police looking for evidence of subversive activity.  they search the room for about an hour, looking everywhere, but they never touch the bed, because his wife is lying in it, even though,as  Orwell reflects, there could be a ton of Trotskyist literature under the pillow, and machine guns under the mattress.  Hilarious in parts, heartbreaking in others, this is an unforgettable book.	2004-07-03
US	31406259	R20PMTBJA80PU6	0441885918	970928066	Who's Afraid of Beowulf?	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Hilarious Viking adventure	Hilary Frderickssen is a young American archaeologist with a passion for Vikings.  A Viking ship burial is discovered on the site she is excavating in northern Scotland.  When Hildy investigates, she gets a shock when she discovers that the Vikings on board the ship are still very much alive.  King Hrolf of Caithness and his followers have been awoken from their thousand-year sleep to fight the evil Sorcerer King who rules his evil empire from an office block in London.  Hildy has the daunting task of providing the Vikings with food, clothing, and transport, and helping them get to London to find the Sorcerer-King.  There are some very funny incidents as she introduces them to the delights of fish and chips and Marks and Spencers suits.  While Hildy accompanies the King and some of the Vikings to London, the ones remaining behind in Caithness kidnap Danny Baker, a hapless TV producer, and hold him hostage.This is a very funny book, with a clever plot and lots of amusing incidents and characters.  The Vikings are a delightful bunch, especially Starkadd the Berserker (&quot;like honey, thick and sweet&quot;)and Hildy is an engaging heroine.  There are also two cthonic spirits, Zerxx and Perxx, who live off energy and are involved in playing a mysterious and complex game called Goblin's Teeth, which seems to be a blending of chess, scrabble, monopoly, snakes and ladders and any other game you can think of.  I have read lots of Tom Holt's other books, but I don't like any of them nearly as much as this one.	2004-07-03
US	31406259	R4H5U177Z0PVN	0099782618	584459926	Travels with Boogie: Five Hundred Mile Walkies and Boogie Up The River: Five Hundred Mile Walkies - " One Man and a Dog Versus the South-west Peninsular ... Man and His Dog to the Source of the Thames "	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Two very funny books in one volume	Both the books in this volume are very funny.  In '500 Mile Walkies' Mark Wallington sets out to walk the south West Coastal Path, around the coasts of Somerset, Devon, Cornwall, and Dorset.  He is accompained by Boogie, his disgusting black mongrel dog.  Mark Wallington bravely battles the English weather and the hazards of campsites and guesthouses.  One of the funniest passages describes his attempt to live off the land, when he cooks himself a revolting meal of nettles and limpets.  Th second book 'Boogie up the River' is even funnier.  Wallington decides to take a  rowing boat and discover the source of the Thames.  He is hoping Jennifer, a sophisticated city girl with a yearning for poetry and the simple life, will accompany him, but she keeps being delayed, and he has to put up with Boogie's company instead. Night after night, as he hopes Jennifer will turn up, he is instead fobbed off with the delicious takeaway meals she sends in her place.  When she does finally arrive, of course Boogie does his best to play gooseberry. This is  not  a travel book to buy if you are looking for serious, detailed descriptions of places visited, but if you like a good laugh you should enjoy it.	2004-07-03
US	31406259	R2T1WAUE6WOJPV	0425193918	636074209	Mrs. Jeffries Sweeps the Chimney (A Victorian Mystery)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Mrs Jeffries does it again	Inspector Witherspoon of Scotland Yard is a nice man, but not a particularly good detective.  So his devoted housekeeper, Mrs Jeffries, and the rest of his equally devoted staff, help him to solve his crimes without him knowing.  The information they gather is passed on to the Inspector via hints and suggestions from Mrs Jeffries, and he ends up thinking he has solved the cases himself.  Once you can accept this wildly improbable premise, you can relax and enjoy the series.  In this one,a clergyman has been shot dead and the skeleton of a young woman found in a chimney.  Can the Inspector's devoted staff solve these crimes?  Of course they can!  Mrs Goodge the Cook, Betsy the maid, Wiggins the footman, Smythe the coachman, who is secretly engaged to Betsy (why secretly, I've no idea), and of course Mrs Jeffries herself, are all engaging characters, and their delight whenever there is a murder to solve is quite understandable, after all it's a lot more fun than housework.  My favourite characters are feisty American widow Luty Belle Cruickshank, and her argumentative butler Hatchett, who help the Inspector's staff to solve their cases.  Never mind the improbability of the premise, suspend disbelief and just enjoy the latest episode in this amusing series.	2004-06-30
US	31406259	R14Z81SFUS41P8	0312981643	274606132	They Came to Baghdad	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Delightful Middle Eastern adventure	Victoria Jones is a recently fired shorthand typist with an elastic approach to telling the truth and a hankering for adventure.  &quot;To Victoria an agreeable world would be one where tigers lurked in the Strand and dangerous bandits infested Tooting&quot;.  She gets her chance at adventure when she meets Edward, a handsome young man on his way to Baghdad to work at an organisation called the Olive Branch, the purpose of which is to foster understanding between nations by getting young people of all countries together to read Shakespeare and Milton in translation.  Victoria wishes she could go to Baghdad too, and by an amazing conicidence (or is it?) she is offered a job the very next day, to accompany a lady with a broken arm on the journey out.  Victoria enterprisingly fakes herself some references, and claims to be the niece of Dr Pauncefoot Jones an archaeologist excavating at Basra.  Victoria is enchanted by Baghdad, but before she has a chance to find Edward, a wounded man stumbles into her hotel room and dies there.  Who is he?  And who is the mysterious Mr Dakin?  And what are the people at the Olive Branch really up to? And who on earth is Anna Scheele? Thi is an amusing and exciting story.  Victoria is a delightful heroine, adventurous and imaginative and quite outrageously untruthful. There is an exciting plot and plenty of vivivd descriptions of Baghdad and other places, and lots of humour.  Tremendous fun.	2004-06-27
US	31406259	R3UVF8HW3VWSJU	0312289723	1827617	Ten Big Ones (Stephanie Plum Novels)	Books	5	10	14	N	N	Another delicious Plum	I had a horrible dream the other night, I dreamt I went into my local bookshop to buy the new Stephanie Plum novel, only to find that it had been co-authored by Charlotte Hughes.  I awoke screaming.  Happily, it was only a nightmare.  'Ten Big Ones' is pure Evanovich, and is as funny, exciting and utterly delightful as all the rest.I started laughing as soon as I started reading it, and hardly stopped till the end.  Stephanie Plum, incompetent but lucky Bounty  hunter, falls foul of a nasty street gang who are out to get her.  She wants somewhere safe to hide, so finds her way to what she thinks is the BatCave, or is it?  Morelli, naturally, is less than delighted about where she is staying.  What with hiding from the gang, trying to sort out how she feels about Morelli and Ranger, and getting ready for her sister Valerie's weding to Albert Kloughn, Stephanie has a busy time of it.  All the favourite characters are here, outrageous Grandma Mauzer, irrepressible Lula, and of course Stephanie's remarkable immortal hamster Rex (he must be about 500 in hamster years by now).  There is a welcome reapperance of Sally Sweet, as Valerie's wedding planner.  And of course Morelli and Ranger are as devastating as ever.  There's a bit where Morelli puts handcuffs on Stephanie at the dinner table, I had to break off reading and go and have a cold shower.As always, I find myself torn between admiration for Stephanie wanting to continue her bounty hunter careet, and exasperation when she gets huffy with Morelli because he wants her to quit. \\"He loves you, you silly girl\\" I want to yell at her\\"Of course he doesn't want you getting into danger, what kind of a man would he be if he did?\\"  I like to think that if it was me I'd stick to my guns and carry on bounty huntering, but honesty compels me to admit that I'd probably hand in my notice in a second if Morelli turned his charm on me.(actually, though, although Morelli and Ranger are great fun to encounter in a book, I think they'dbe a bit of strain to have about the house in real life, all that gorgeousness would be so hard to live up to).  If you have read th other plum novels you'll love this one, and if you haven't read the others it doesn't really matter, like all the others this one can stand on its own.	2004-06-22
US	31406259	R2K3WJZFHLKDT8	0312979487	678964946	The Man in the Brown Suit (St. Martin's Minotaur Mysteries)	Books	5	15	15	N	N	A ripping yarn	Anne Beddingfield has lived all her life in a small village with her father, an anthropologist who is interested only in Paeleolithic Man.  Anne longs for romance and adventure, and rather envies their maid, who has 'walked out' with a variety of young men.  Then Anne's father dies suddenly, and she gets a chance at adventure when she witnesses the accidental death of a man at a London tube station.  She has reason to beleive that this death is connected to the murder of a woman at a house in Marlow, but the police aren't interested in her theories, so she persuades a newspaper proprietor to take an interest. Anne takes passage on a ship bound for South Africa, believeing the answer to the mystery is to be found on the ship.  There are a number of interesting people on board, charming Mrs Blair, enigmatic Colonel Race, the creepy clergyman Chichester, and eccentric and delightful Sir Eustace Pedler.  Some or all of them may be up to no good.  A lot of exciting things happen to Anne on the voyage, not the least exciting is when a handsome wounded stranger takes refuge in her cabin.  Her adventures continue when they get to South Africa, and she finds herself with more excitement than she had ever dreamt of.  Anne is a delightful heroine, adventurous and resourceful and humorous (and despite what a previous reviwer says, not in the least like tiresome, pompous Amelia Peabody).  This book has an exciting plot, interesting characters, adventure, romance and humour, what more could you want? ( Actually, again disagreeing with a previous reviewer, I thought the film of this story, allowing for the fact that it was updated by sixty years, stuck reasonably closely to the original story).	2004-06-18
US	31406259	R1G4UKA703AXCD	0312310145	848704733	A Feast of Poisons: A Kathryn Swinbrooke Mystery (Kathryn Swinbrooke Mysteries)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Wickedness in Walmer	In the village of Walmer on the Kent coast, the blacksmith and his wife both die at the same time of different poisons administered seperately.  How could this have happened? Katherine Swinbrooke, physician, apothecary and reluctant sleuth, is called in to find out.  Other mysterious things have happened in Walmer, the death, apparently an accident, of the wife of Sir Henry Beauchamp, and the murder of a group of Lancastrian supporters.  Can Katherine sort it all out?  Do you doubt it for a moment.  Fans of Katherine will be relieved to know that she has finally married her hunky Irish boyfriend Colum Murtagh, and is enjoying married life very much.  Inbetween solving murders, Colum lures her back to bed whenever he can.  As with all the books in this series, there are enjoyable and vivivd pictures of medieval life, and a host of interesting supporting characters.  I feel that there are perhaps too many murders in this one, two or three per mystery is enough I think, but Katherine can cope with it.  I would just like to comment on the previous reviewer who refers to Kathereine as an independent women at a time when women were just the chattles of their menfolk.  In fact there was no shortage of independent women in the Middle Ages, they were far les chattels then than they became in later centuries.  Anyway, this is a fun series and kathereine is a likeable heroine, and I am so glad she has got Colum at last!	2004-06-18
US	31406259	R3AMK1FVP39WT1	0140326227	341637642	The Greengage Summer (Plus)	Books	5	40	40	N	N	Thrilling tale of love and crime in France	The Grey children are taken to France by their mother to visit the battlefields of WW1 in the hope that it will make them less selfish.  However, she is taken ill as soon as they arrive at their destination, the hotel Les Oeillets, and the children find themselves bewildered and frightened in a strange land with a barely conscious mother.  They are befriended by Eliot, a charming and enigmatic Englishman staying at Les Oeillets, who sorts everything out.  With their mother in hospital, the children are free to explore this strange and exotic new world, so different from the dull suburban English town they have come from.  They get to know all the people at the hotel, Mamzelle Zizzi, the beautiful but slightly haggard proprietor, who is clearly besotted with Eliot, Madame Corbet, grim and unsmiling, who equally clearly detests him, and all the rest of the staff.  They make friends with Paul, an orphan who is an overworked drudge in the kitchen, but dreams of some day  owning his own lorry. The story is narrated by Cecil, thirteen years old, who observes everything, especially the growing attraction between Joss, her exquisitely lovely elder sister, and Eliot.  As Eliot spends more and more time with the children, Mamzelle Zizzi's jealousy grown, until it finally explodes one night in a scene that terrifies and bewilders the Grey family.  The children try to retreat from the scary grownupworld to their safe childhood idyll, but it is too late, the happy atmosphere is poisoned. As Eliot's behaviour grows more mysterious,and Mamzelle Zizzi continues to simmer with jealousy the story heads inevitably towards disaster.  All the characters in this book are fascinating, from secretive, sexy Eliot to the drudge Paul, and you feel totally involved in their lives. The atmosphere of a French summer is so vividly described, you can taste the greengages the children stuff themselves with, and smell the eccentric French plumbing. A gripping and poignant story of lost innocence, this book is based on actual events in Rumer Godden's youth, and is quite unforgettable.	2004-06-10
US	31406259	R13HSG1CVCH9V	0802137016	750275710	Holidays in Hell: In Which Our Intrepid Reporter Travels to the World's Worst Places and Asks, "What's Funny About This" (O'Rourke, P. J.)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Hilarious and heartbreaking	This is a dazzlingly brilliant collection of articles written about some of the world's worst trouble spots.  Nobody else writes like O'Rourke, managing to vividly conjure up the awfulness of the places he visits, yet at the same time managing to make you laugh as well.  The tone of the articles ranges from the horrific 'Christmas in El Salvador', to the purely comic 'Weekend Getaway: Heritage USA' which describes a bizarre visit to a Biblical theme park.  He describes how his girlfriend attempts to go shopping in the park and returns with &quot;a dazed, perplexed expression, like a starved Ethiopian given a piece of wax fruit&quot;.  I know the feeling, Disneyland Paris had exactly the same effect on me.  In 'Mexican Border Idyll' he asks the question &quot;What makes a Mexico a Mexico?  What makes a United States a United States?  And what the hell are we supposed to do about it?&quot; 'The Euro-Weenies'is a bit painful to read if you are one, but funny all the same and 'In Whitest Africa' written a few years before the ending of apartheid, is absolutely fascinating. 'The piece of Ireland that passeth all Understanding' is perhaps the best article of all, funny and tragic by turns, so much better in every way than the trite, banal piece Michael Moore wrote about Ireland in 'Dude, where's my country?'In the introduction to this superb book O'Rourke ponts out that military intervention is never going to stop trouble because &quot;It will always be more fun to carry a gun around in the hills and sleep with ideology-addled college girls than to spend life behind a water buffalo or rotting in a slum&quot;. Who else could have written that, O'Rourke is incomparable.	2004-06-09
US	31406259	R1EMAHBBW7MWCC	0060936975	378058051	How I Accidentally Joined the Vast Right-Wing Conspiracy	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Enjoyable journey from Left to Right	This is Harry Stein's account of how his political views changed over a longish period of time from liberal to conservative, and why.  He describes how he gradually became disillusioned with feminism, , affirmitive action, political correctness etc, and his reasons for changing his opinions. It made me realise how ignorant I am about American current affairs, I hadn't even heard of approximately half the people mentioned in this book.  Also, things like political correctness etc, don't seem to loom so large over here, we don't have any affirmitive action (yet), for instance.  I can understand his position on abortion very well, it's more or less how I feel about the subject myself, with very mixed feelings.  I occasionaly found myself surprised by some of his conclusions, for instance although he disaproves of many of the excesses of Political Correctness, he seems to have succumbed to Health Fascism, he mentions disaprovingly the casual attitude of the French towards smoking, which I regard as a point in their favour.  Honestly, Mr Stein, whether you smoke or not, you're going to die anyway you know!  I particularly enjoyed his scenario for a conservative sit-com set on a university campus, which seemed to me to have a lot of potential, could be almost as funny as 3rd Rock from the Sun.  His children sound quite alarmingly mature for their age, being brought up by conservative parents seemed to have given them wisdom beyond their years, which is a good thing, I suppose.  A bit unnerving to have about the house though.  And this book introduced me to a brilliant quotation from Lincoln I'd never heard before, can't find the page now but it went something like &quot;every time I hear someone argeu for slavery, I feel a wish to try it on them personally&quot;  Nice one, Abraham.	2004-06-06
US	31406259	R2K97DHL6RSGY3	0871139197	255727841	Peace Kills: America's Fun New Imperialism	Books	4	28	35	N	N	O'Rourke strikes again	A witty and incisive collection of articles on the state of the world, it stars with 'Why Americans Hate Foreign Policy', and goes on to describe the baffling and tangled stae of affairs in Kosovo in 1999.  I found the chapter describing his visit to Israel in 2001 particularly interesting, his comments on Zionism are fascinating.  The chapter on Egypt is excellent too, though I did have rservations about his comment that we had no civilisation in Europe when the Pyramids were built.  We didn't have  civilisation on the scale and grandeur of Egypt, but we had some, after all, Newgrange was built before the Pyramids, and it's still standing.  He also drags out those old chestnuts about the Arab world being more civilised than Europe during the Middle Ages, and about classical learning being unknown here until the Renaissance, both quite untrue.  Mr O'Rourke knows a lot about a lot of things, but I don't think he knows much about the Middle Ages.  The chapter about the anti-war demonstrations in Washington is very funny, and the chapter on Kuwait and Iraq during the early part of the war utterly fascinating.  O'Rourke's genius for describing countries at war is unequeled.  The chapter on Iwo Jima is interesting, but I found myself somewhat bemused by his statement that the Japanese officers were arguably more sensitive - nad more intelligent-than their American counterparts.  Praising the culutral attaintments of the Japanese officers, he tells us that one of them knew Spencer Tracy, and that all three officers fought to the death.  Having had an uncle who was taken prisoner by the Japanese, and was put to work building their vile Burma railway, I am not disposed to shed any tears over Japanese deaths during the war, and I don't care if every officer in the Japanese army knew Spencer Tracy AND Katherine Hepburn, there was nothing intelligent or sensitive about the way they treated their prisoners.  This is a very good book, but not quite as dazzlingly brilliant and witty as some of his earlier books like 'Holidays in Hell' 'Give War a Chance' &quot;All the Trouble in the World&quot; and 'Eat the Rich'.  And I definitely feel that when it came to writing about Iwo jima, he must have had too much saki	2004-06-06
US	31406259	RB4GQ01MIFRVT	0871138255	745066592	The CEO of the Sofa	Books	4	2	3	N	N	O'Rourke mocks at - just about everything	In this book O'Rourke is his usual savagely funny self as he gives his views on politics, welfare, medicare, republicans, democrats, the Clintons, Monica Lewinsky and life in general.  He is particulalry funny when demolishing Hillary Clinton's book 'It Takes a Village' and another bizarre book, apparently a handbook of politically correct language (this book sounded so totally weird, I wasn't sure that he didn't invent it as a joke).  His piece about India is particlarly good, nobody else writes about foreign parts as well as O'Rourke.  Occasionaly I found myself getting irritated, as when he gets all Michael Moore-ish about women, going on about how intelligent, efficient, competent, and generally more adult and better than men they are.  I hate this.  Not being at all efficient, competent and adult myself, I find myself deeply loathing Mrs O'Rourke and all thoise other smartallick women who are so different from me.  He's at it again later in the book when he's on about women being wonderful with children etc.  Crikey, all these female paragons he seems to know make me tired. And it startles me a bit to find that he doesn't believe that Elian's father had any right to have his son returned to him, as a father himself I would have expected him to be more sympathetic to father's rights. However, in general this is a very funny book (his comparisons between Venice, Italy, and Venice, Las Vegas, had me in stitches, likewise his experiments with wine-tasting).His most profound comment in the book is &quot;the difference between having one child and having two, is like the difference between keeping a dog and running a zoo&quot;  That is SO true. And his wife is probably not as tiresome in real life as she seems to be in this book.  Very funny.	2004-06-03
US	31406259	R1ZZNDODFN837Z	0002726874	552381525	Quartered Safe Out Here: A Recollection of the War in Burma	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Should have six stars at least	George Macdonald Fraser has written an utterly gripping and unforgettable memoir of the war in Burma, where he served with a company of men mainly from Cumberland.  His comrades are vividly described so that you feel you have known them yourself, and it is a terrible shock when nearly halfway through the book one of them is killed during a bloody nighttime battle.  There are richly comic passages too, like the time the section is given the job of gathering up provisions from an air drop, and return laden with stolen booty, or the time they are terrorised by a giant centipede, or the time Fraser falls down a well.  Every time I read this book I find myself wishing that I had been one of those young men fighting my way through the jungle, which is completely crazy, as the closest I've ever come to combat is seperating two squabbling toddlers.  By the end of the book, when Fraser leaves to become an officer, I feel as sad as if I was saying goodbye to my own friends, and I can never hear the tune &quot;bye-bye blackbird&quot; without substituting the Burma version &quot;you've been out with Sun-Yat-Sen, you won't go out with him again, Shanghai bye-bye!&quot; The most astonishing thing is that he was only nineteen when he was performing incredible acts of courage in the jungle, eventually even having to lead the section himself.  An extraordinary story, told bu a superb writer.  Read it and laugh.  Read it and weep.  Read it and wish you were there too.  Oh, just read it!	2004-05-26
US	31406259	R2ZDX0DNO4JOZF	0060085452	27148357	Boy Meets Girl (The Boy Series)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Trouble with desserts	Kate Mackenzie works for the Human Resources department at the New York Journal.  She is given the unwelcome task of firing cook Ida Lopez, who makes wonderful desserts but is picky about who she srves them to.  Kate's troubles begin when Ida lopez sues the Journal for wrongful dismissal, and Kate falls for gorgeous defense lawyer Mitch Hertzog, whose horrible brother Stuarts is engaged to Kate's equally horrible boss Amy Jenkins. Meg Cabot's earlier book set at the Journal, the Guy Next Door, was told entirely in e-mails, this one also uses phone messages, journal entries and something called IM.  Although I found this book quite amusing, I didn't think it was nearly as funny as The Guy Next Door, which I thought was much funnier, with a more interesting plot.  The trouble with this one was I couldn't really get up much sympathy for Ida, I couldn't understand why the daft old bat didn't just serve the desserts and have done with it.  And why does everyone get so worked up about her dismissal anyway?  I think desserts have a significance in America that they probably don't have here, nobody in England as far as I know gets very excited about chocolate chip cookies.  And I thought the heroine was a bit of a drip really.  The Guy Next Door has a much better plot with an extremely funny climax whem the heroine takes a brilliant and hilarious revenge on the hero for lying to her, there is nothing so good in this book.  Not bad, but a bit of a disappointment after the earlier and much, much funnier work.	2004-05-07
US	31406259	RJ9QINLLX9G82	1551669412	984847551	Hot Shot (STP - Mira)	Books	1	4	10	N	N	The feminisation of Frankie	Frankie Daniels is a supposedly tough city detective who is sent to work in a small town,much to her humiliation.  The first night she is there she beats up the town bully, much to everyone's delight.  However, she is not allowed to remain tough for long.  Every woman she meets sets about feminising her, making her buy satin underwear, teaching her to wear makeup or cook or something, by the end of the book she is so completely feminine that she is worrying about what to wear for a date with her dishy boss Matt Webber, isn't that cute?  Reading this book is like watching one of those ghastly musicals like Annie Get Your Gun or Calamity Jane, in which a tomboy heroine is prettified and domesticated to make her fit to associate with men.  What was wrong with Frankie the way she was? Why does she have to be transformed into a painted perfumed tart?  This book made me nauseous.  Frankie's supposed toughness is entirely unconvincing anyway, she's about as tough as marshmallow, Stephanie Plum looks like Rambo by comaprison.	2004-05-01
US	31406259	R2OL5V7NI251HJ	0756401836	474978429	Smoke and Shadows	Books	4	22	26	N	N	Sinister goings-on at the TV studio	Tony Foster from the 'Blood' series is living in Vancouver and working as a Production Assistant on a TV show about a vampire detective.  The star of the show, Mason Reed, isn't a very nice person, we know this because he SMOKES, shock horror, and even worse, he smokes INDOORS! (could anyone possibly get more depraved?)Tony has a crush on the show's co-star, the gorgeous Lee Nicholas, but unfortunately Lee likes girls, lots of them.  A minor member of the cast dies in mysterious circumstances, and Tony is convinced something weird is going on, and that it has something to do with the show's special effects woman, Arra Pelindrake.  It turns out Arra is a refugee wizard from another world, and is being persued by the evil Shadowlord, intent on destroying her and taking over this world as he took over Arra's.Arra is reluctant to fight the Shadowlord because she is convinced she will fail, as she did on her own world.  Luckily Tony's old pal vampire novelist Henry Fitzroy is on hand to help out, but can he and Tony do anything to defeat the Shadowlord?  Like all Tanya Huff's books, this is an exciting story, but I did not find it as gripping as some of her other books.  The trouble is that, although Tony is a nice boy, as a central character he simply does not hold my attention the way Vicki, Henry and Mike did, and I found myself only really gripped when Henry Fitzroy comes on the scene.  One of the things I've always liked best about Huff's novels are her memorable strong female characters, not just her great heroines like Crystal, Vicki, Claire and Torin, but supporting characters too.  Arra, however, seems a shadowy character (sorry) and I just didn't warm to her.The head of the studio, CB, is a good character, but there isn't enough of him.  This is a very good book, but in my personal opinion it is not one of her very best.	2004-04-07
US	31406259	R33ARGNFNTHMS6	0670032891	260413038	The Well of Lost Plots: A Thursday Next Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	The most amusing yet	Each volume of this series is more amusing than its predecessors, and this is the best yet.  Thursday Next, literary detective, is living in the manuscript of an unpublished detective novel, Caversham Heights.  She becomes involved in the desperate efforts of the characters to make the book more interesting and therefore publishable, and to prevent themselves being (horror of horros) reduced to text.  At the same time she is being tormented by the evil sister of her deceased archenemy Acheron Hades, who is trying to wipe out her memories.  The funniest part of the book is when she is in Wuthering Heights, where the characters are beseiged by a group of outraged young Cathy supporters, determined to kill Heathcliff(an excellent idea, in my opinion). The most puzzling part of the book is where we learn that David Copperifled has murdered his first wife.  Why on earth would he want to do that?  She was fun, if he'd wanted to murder his dreary second wife it would make more sense.  As the late Dilys Powell once said 'Every time Agnes Wickfield opens her mouth I want to slap her'Thursday's adventures are immensely enjoyable to read, except when she starts moping over her boring dissapeared husband (how I wish the tiresome man had been killed in the Crimea).  The books would be more fun if Thursday was single,but they are fun anyway.	2004-02-26
US	31406259	R3A4N8UHESBUC8	0142001805	89209679	The Eyre Affair: A Thursday Next Novel	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Fun fantasy	This is the first in the series featuring Thursday Next, literary detective.  It is set in an imaginary 20th century in which literature is of supreme importance, and organised crime revolves around stealing original manuscripts, forging literary works etc.  Thursday is in pursuit of master criminal Acheron Hades, whose fiendish plan is to steal the original manuscript of Jane Eyre from Haworth, kidnap Miss Eyre and hold her to ransome, knowing that the literature-mad world will do anything to get her back.  In this world, Jane Eyre ends with Jane going off to India with Rivers, but in the course of thwarting Hades, Thursday manages to alter the ending to have Jane marry Rochester.  Personally, I think this a great mistake.  Jane would be much better off going to India with Rivers than marrying that dreadful Rochester, a man who would keep his first wife chained up in an attic and pretend she doesn't exist would do ANYTHING, I wouldn't trust him an inch.  Thursday is a veteran of the Crimean war, which has been dragging on for 130 years, and there is a rather boring love-interest involving a former flame of Thursday's from the war, but this aside the Eyre affair is a funny, exciting fantasy thriller.	2004-02-18
US	31406259	R2799VJ4QKWUJH	0878331859	228716829	That's Not in My American History Book: A Compilation of Little-Known Events and Forgotten Heroes	Books	4	12	25	N	N	Some fascinating facts and some irritating ones.	This is a compilation of little-known or overlooked stories from American history, many of which are fascinating.  I was intrigued to learn, for instance, that the Boston Tea Party took place because English tea was too cheap, not too expensive as I had always believed.   It is fascinating too to learn about the forgotten Fourteenth State, the Communist Invasion of Texas, Bet Freeman'as Walk to Freedom, and many other fascinating episodes of which I knew nothing.  His piece about Benjamin Franklin is a bit selective, he admires Franklin very much and therefore says nothing about Franklin's disgraceful and barbaric treatment of his son, who, unlike his traitorous father, was loyal to the British crown.  Some of the information is simply annoying.  I do not wish to be told that Pocahontas did not save John Smith's life, that Betsy Ross didn't make the first American flag, and that Belle Starr was just a sad old drunk instead of a dashing outlaw.  And |I don'tbelieve Pocahontas was murdered, that's simply silly.  In spite of these dubious passages, this is an intersting and enjoyable book.	2004-02-11
US	31406259	R1Q1TCCWXXRLZW	0142001929	291039358	A Treasury of Great American Scandals: Tantalizing True Tales of Historic Misbehavior by the Founding Fathers and Others Who Let Freedom Swing	Books	4	5	8	N	N	Some great American stories	This is a much better book than Farquhar's earlier effort 'Great Royal Sandals', it contains far more interesting and less well known (tro me anyway) stories.  There are many intersting anecdotes that I'd never heard before.  The chapter on the Salem Witch Hunts is particularly interesting, and it is cheering to learn that John Alden, the son of Priscilla Mullins, defied the judges at the trial so sturdily, and even more splendidly succeeded in escaping from their clutches.  Equally fascinating is the chapter on Benjamin Franklin, and his scandalous treatment of his son, who unlike his traitor father, remained loyal to his King. Unlike some other reviewers, I do not find this book particularly funny, for funny history you want to read Will Cuppy or Sellar and Yeatman, but it is full of interesting information.	2004-02-11
US	31406259	R1UOFZGYO5ZW8Q	0943357012	789535651	Pele: Goddess of Hawaii's Volcanoes	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Pele revealed	A fascinating history of the goddess Pele in legend and history, telling her story from ancient Hawaii to the present.  Particularly interesting is the author's description of people returning rocks taken from Hawaii in the belief that they have been cursed. It seems Pele's presence is still very much felt in Hawaii.  The book is full of absolutely gorgeous illustrations, it would be worth buying for those alone, but the text is absorbing too.  If you want to know about Pele, this book will tell you everything about her.	2004-02-10
US	31406259	R3VHXI7KB2687U	0451524071	985219593	Roughing It (Signet Classics)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Hilarious jounrye across America	Mark Twain achieves a remarkable feat in this book, he manages to write a travel book even funnier than 'Innocents Abroad', which I wouldn't have thought possible.  His riveting account of his travels west across the country is packed with fascinating and amusing incidents and anecdotes. I was almost in hysterics when I read about Twain and a group of friends beimng held at bay by a boxful of escaped Tarantulas, and again reading about his bizarre encounters with the preposterous Mormons in Utah.  As in Innocents Abroad, humour is woven in with serious observations on the places he visits and their inhabitants. His account of his visit to Hawaii is particularly fascinating, but the whole book is unforgettable.	2004-02-10
US	31406259	R2LQ3FXTR75C7H	0785815651	31487190	Eternally Bad: Goddesses With Attitude	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Goddesses behaving badly	This book is a refreshing antidote to the rather soppily sentimental view of all goddesses as kind, nurturing mother figures.  Here you will find stories of goddesses being cruel, vengeful, lustful, greedy and cunning, and enjoying themselves thoroughly.  Trina Robbins tells their stories in a brisk, breezy style, and the book is delightfully illustrated.  Great fun.	2004-02-10
US	31406259	R3BZBWMH4AWZFB	1865088846	981428340	Planes, Trains & Elephants	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Tra vels all over the world in all kinds of ways	In this very funny book Brian Thacker describes jounreys he has made in many different countries using many different forms of transport.  He is equally amusing whether he is writing about traveling by moped in Greece, taxi in Belfast, jeep in Hawaii, camel in Egypt, skis in Switzerland, elephant in Thailand, bicycle in China, horse in Mongolia,or any of the other many and varied forms of transport he's used in his life so far.  Some of his observations puzzle me a little, I can't think why he dislikes Macdonalds, for instance, if you have children they're a godsend, and dirt cheap too.  As with 'Rule No.5, no sex on the bus' the humour is a bit crude at times, but if you don't mind that you will enjoy this book.	2004-02-10
US	31406259	R2CLADLP7F6MQC	0767907558	260941926	Royal Babylon: The Alarming History of European Royalty	Books	2	36	41	N	N	Interesting but hardly side-splitting	This account of European royalty between the 17th-20th centuries has some interesting stories about the eccentric and often deplorable behaviour of the members of various royal families.  There is an emphasis on sexual misbehaviour, and Mr. Shaw's own prejudices show up quite clearly.  He obviously has a strong distaste for the idea of women having sex past a certain age, Catherine the Great comes in for particular censor for being still interested in sex while in her sixties (ugh!)He refers  sneeringly to George I's mother as a \\"flabby, toothless crone\\"She was a very old lady at the time, but that's no excuse, evidently, for being flabby and toothless.  I suppose Mr Shaw thinks she should have been working out at the gym, or something. Camilla Parker-Bowles is refered to dissaprovingly as 'Prince Charles's forty-five year old mistress' (one feels Mr Shaw would dissaprove of her less had she been in her twenties).Mr Shaw seems to feel that hereditary power, combined with in-breeding, is the cause of the bad behaviour of monarchs, though as a previous reviewer pointed out, that hardly explains the deplorable behaviour of such non-hereditary monarchs as Napoleon, Hiter, Stalin, Pol Pot, Mao etc.  An intersting book if you don't mind the constant dwelling on (sometimes wildly exaggerated) disgusting details.  The blurb on the back of the book describes this volume as 'side-splitting' but it is hardly that.  Midly amusing perhaps.  If you want a side-splitting history book, try 'The Decline and Fall of Practically Everybody' by Will Cuppy.	2004-01-01
US	31406259	R1EVXRWWBRFAY9	0207188645	835319828	The Magic Pudding: The Adventures of Bunyip Bluegum	Books	5	22	22	N	N	A magically funny story	Bunyip Bluegum the Koala leaves home because he can't stand the sight of his uncle's whiskers in the soup any more.  He meets Barnacle Bill the sailor and Sam Sawnoff the penguin, who own a remarkable pudding.  Every time you cut a slice from the pudding, another one grows in its place, you can eat as much as you like, the pudding lasts forever.  What's more, you can change the pudding to any kind you like, it can be steak and kidney or plum duff or jam roly poly.  The pudding is apt to get discontented and starts complaining if it isn't eaten enough.  Such a desirable pudding is naturally at constant risk from pudding thieves, and the three friends have their work cut out   trying to outwit the sneaky Possum and Wombat who are always trying to steal it.  This is a very funny story with lots of action and a great many fights, it should appeal to anyone who likes humorous fantasy.	2003-12-23
US	31406259	R2ZAAI71VNZX7D	0727860089	168568586	Second ACT	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Another fun Roman mystery	The latest adventure of Roman superbitch Claudia Seferaius is one of the most amusing so far.  Claudia, in trouble over a dodgy business deal, gives houseroom to a troupe of strolling players over Saturnalia, to entertain her demanding clients.  Naturally, one of them turns out to be a murderer, but which one?  Luckily, Caludia's hunky would-be boyfriend Marcus Orbilio is on hand to help her solve the mystery (are those two ever going to get it together?).  There are lots of amusing supporting characters, interesting subplots, and narrow escapes.  Claudia is as always a feisty, outrageous heroine.  This Roman mystery series is not the most authentic in period detail, but it is definitely the most entertaining.	2003-12-19
US	31406259	R30CHUY93T7ESB	0553575384	291987598	To Say Nothing of the Dog	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Hilarious time travel story	Ned Henry, a time traveller from the 2050s, is reluctantly involved in a project to recreate old Coventry Cathedral (obliterated by the Germans during WW2).  He has the task of finding the Bishop's Bird Stump, a massive tasteless monstrosity which is vital to the restoration plans.  He finds himself obliged to return to Victorian England to help out Verity, another time traveller who has accidentaly brought a cat forward to the 21st century(cats having become extinct).  His return to Victorian England causes a lot of complications, including a Victorian girl, Tossie, getting engaged to the wrong man and thus being in danger of changing history.  This is avery funny story with a complex, ingenious plot.  Tossie, the frivolous affected Victorian maiden is a particularly amusing character, I personally thought she'd probably bea lot more fun to be married to than the other rather priggish young women in the story.  Also I thought the Bishop's Bird Stump sounded absolutely wonderful, I'd love to have one in my house.  See if you can guess the identity of 'Mr C.' before it is revealed.  I dropped my first copy of this book in the bath and completely ruined it so I had to order a second one, but it was well worth it.	2003-12-18
US	31406259	R11XQ97X26PI9H	080371808X	188228965	Benjamin and Tulip	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Rosemary Wells' funniest book	Every time Benjamin meets Tulip she says \\"I'm gonna beat you up\\" and she does.  Tulip is a little horror, gleefully dropping from the trees to mess up Benjamin's new suit with mud, an unruly, fearsome girl, as different as can be from the little goody-goody Ruby of the Max and Ruby books.  Max eventually finds a watermelon helpful in taming the tyrannical Tulip and the book has a happy ending.  Very amusing and much less bland than Rosemary Wells' other books.	2003-12-16
US	31406259	R2I6YUUYN7HH4P	0091885655	165842005	Life With Father (Comic classics)	Books	4	16	17	N	N	A very entertaining father	These are very amusing sketches of family life in New York in the 1880s and 90s.  Clarence Day Seniuor is a larger-than-life character, autocratic, excitable, with strong likes and dislikes.  I was a bit startled to read a previous review that spoke of his 'emotional abuse' of his children.  There is no abuse , emotional or otherwise, in this book.  Mr Day clearly adored his family.  Another reviewer says that Day Snr 'disrespected his wife'.  Again, I see no evidence of disrespect in this book, Mr Day obviously loves his slightly eccentric wife to distraction, and in their frequent clashes of temperament she almost always succeeds in getting the better of him.  The chapter where she departs on a lengthy trip to Egypt, leaving him pining for her, is particularly touching.  This is a charming book, much more amusing than the pleasant but rather bland film that was based on it.	2003-12-15
US	31406259	RF5EJ15A1WDDY	1852853972	311045339	Witches, Druids and King Arthur	Books	4	29	38	N	N	Still something new to say	Ronald Hutton has already written so extensively on the subjects covered in ths book that you wouldn't think he'd have anything else to say about them, but he still manages to come up with fresh and interesting information.  The first essay in the book 'How Myths are Made' is particularly fascinating as he shows the astonishing way that myths can distort reality.  You may be surprised to learn from this book for instance, that both the Scottish and Welsh national costumes were invented by English people.  Even more surprising is the history of Irish nationalism, I didn't know until I read this book that the Irish revolt of the 1640s was led by the Fitzgerald family, who were of Norman descent, or that the massacre of Drogheda wasn't really much of a massacre, no women or children were killed.  The 19th century rebels against Irish rule, Wolfe Tone, Parnell etc were all Protestants.  Connaught, the most Catholic and Gaelic province of Ireland, was also the most amenable to English rule. The other essays in the book are also filled with interesting information.  You can read about the development of the myth of King Arthur, for whose existence the evidence is very scanty, but never mind, it's a good story anyway.  If you've read Mr. Hutton's previous book 'The Pagan Religions of the Ancient British Isles' you won't be surprised to learn that there is no evidence for pre-Saxon religious activity in Glastonbury, though I still treasure an irrational hope that the Holy Thorn was really planted by Joseph of Arimathea, and that the Holy Grail is still hanging around there somewhere.  Other essays cover the ancient origins of modern Paganism, Witchcraft, Druidry, and ritual nmudity among other things.  Occasionaly I found what I was reading a bit over my head, but mostly it is a fascinating book, he even managed to make those old bores Tolkein and C.S. Lewis seem quite interesting in the esaay I thought I would enjoy least 'The Inklings and the Gods' (i've always found 'Lord ot the Rings' one of the world's most boring books)If you enjoyed Mr. Huton's previous books you will certainly enjoy this one.	2003-12-15
US	31406259	R2JE10KYDIZD2K	0792719751	839032480	Make-Believe (Curley Large Print Books)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	More island magic	This is a collection of short stories about the du Frocq family from Island Magic.  The tone is much more light-hearted than the earlier book, there is none of the dark drama of Island Magic, the Grandfather for instance, although an autocrat is not a malignant figure as he is in island Magic.  In this collection  the boisterous and ingeneous du Frocq children involve a number of unwary characters in their madcap schemes, a famous actor finds himself taken prisoner and locked in the loft, a publisher is persuaded to buy a bookshop that will run at a massive loss, a doctor rash enough to set up a rival practice to Grandfather's is outwitted, the new island Seigneur is persuaded not to evict an aged miller from his mill.  The stories are full of humour and charm, this is a lovely book.	2003-12-06
US	31406259	RC03VXEMVPJ58	0688001750	835562955	The inevitability of patriarchy	Books	3	15	28	N	N	Inevitably annoying	This book is bound to annoy, if only slightly, any woman reading it.  Naturaly we don't like to be told that patriarchy is inevitable, that all societies everywhere have always been male-dominated and always will be, and that men are always going to predominate in leadership roles.  We don't like it, but must nevertheless consider if it may be true.  This book was published in the early seventies and i understand has been updated since.  There is one point in the book where Mr. Goldberg states confidently &quot;South Africa will never elect a black Prime Minister&quot;.  Oops, I bet that line's been deleted from the new edition.  The references to Germaine Greer seem strangely dated too, nowadays she has little interest in feminism and mostly writes about her garden.  Mr Goldberg does not argue that women are less intelligent or less able than men, merely that few women have the drive to achieve high-ranking positions of authority.  Is this true?  I don't know, certainly it does seem that there are still relatively few women in high-ranking positions in many professions.  He writes that there are no women in the Senate, is that still true?  Frankly, I'm not entirely clear what the difference is between the Senate and the Congress, sorry but I have enough trouble coping with the House of Commons and the House of Lords, keeping track of foreign political systems is too much for me.  His argument that there are far fewer women of genius than men of genius is one I've heard before, he doesn't say that there are none, just fewer (he does not, as the previous reviewer claims, suggest that Jane Austen, George Eliot and the Brontes are less talented than male authors).  I found myself struggling a bit with parts of this book, it gets quite technical here and there, but it's interesting.	2003-12-05
US	31406259	RMDVFJ7S5J1N4	0571099181	606572904	The Thirteen Days of Christmas	Books	5	5	5	N	N	My favourite Christmas story	I was given this book for Christmas in 1972, and have r-eread it every Christmas since.  It tells the story of the Kitson family who live in a coastal town in a vaguely medieval/tudor/stuart period.  The three younger Kitson children, Prudence, James and Christopher, are desperate to get their elder sister Annaple married off, so that they will not have to endure her awful cooking and bossy ways.  they convince her eager suitor, Francis, that he should be more romantic, so he thinks up more and more fanciful presents to send her.  Being a merchant, he is used to buying in bulk, so as the days of Christmas pass, the Kitsons house fills up with unsuitable qunatities of partridges, hens, geese, swans etc, driving Annaple into a fury.  The Christmas customs of each day are described in detail, making you long for the time when each day had its own individual customs and carols.  The book is filled with humour and fun, it is the most enjoyable Christmas story I have ever read, I shall be reading it again this Christmas with undiminshed pleasure.  Note to American readers: this book is still in print in the UK, you can get it from Amazon.co.uk	2003-12-02
US	31406259	R21EEBEEHNDDK	0394923227	272924800	The Strange Affair of Adelaide Harris	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Leon Garfield's funniest book	Timid schoolmaster Mr Brett is striving to teach his class Ancient History.  He tells them of the Spartan custom of exposing unwanted infants on the mountain side (looking fearfully at the boys in front of him, he wonders why the custom was ever abandoned).  One of the boys, the crafty harris, comes up with the idea of exposing his own infant sister, Adelaide, to see if she will be suckled by a she-wolf (or, this being England in the Regency period, a fox).  He enlists the help of his slow-witted but admiring friend Bostock, and together they expose Adelaide and wait hopefully for the fox to turn up.  Unfortunately, the baby is rescued by romantic Tizzy Alexander, the schoolmaster's daughter (loved hopelessly by Mr Brett) who  takes her home.  Her father suspects the worst when his daughter turns up with a baby, and challenges her bumptious admirer Ralph Bunnion to a duel.  The hapless Mr Brett finds himself acting as second to both participants.  Meanwhile poor Adelaide ends up ina foundling hospital.  As Harris and Bostock try desperately to get her back, more and more characters are drawn into a complex web of misunderstandings and deceits.  This is an absolutely hilarious book, told in Leon Garfield's inimitable style.	2003-12-02
US	31406259	R13KJPCQUH16QW	0806522615	169020713	Napoleon And Josephine: An Improbable Marriage	Books	5	20	22	N	N	Long and enthralling biography	I didn't think I would be able to get through such a lengthy biography of Napoleon and Josephine, thinking myself already very familiar with their story. But I was wrong, this book is utterly fascinating, there isn't a dull sentence in it, I had no difficulty getting through it and wouldn't have minded if it had been even longer.  If you have never read a book about Napoleon and Josephine, I would recommend this one, and even if you have read others, this one is probably the best there is. This extraordinary love story has never been better told.  The only thing that dissapointed me about this book was to read that it was the only one Evangeline Bruce ever wrote, she died not long after it was published, but at least she lived to see this superb work in print.	2003-11-26
US	31406259	R2ZJRYMU313FEQ	0064460509	512317549	A Medieval Feast (Reading Rainbow Books)	Books	5	32	32	N	N	Beautiful portrayal of Medieval life	The lord and and lady of Camdenton Manor are dismayed when they learn the King and his party are coming to stay with them, they know what a lot of work this will mean for everybody.  Throughout the book you see everyone working like mad to get the manor ready in time. Delightful pictures show all the work involved in stocking up with food, hunting, fishing, harvesting, brewing, baking, men, women and children all joining in with the work.  The pcitures are full of fascinating details of the lives of medieval people, nobles and commoners alike.  Any child interested in history should enjoy this book, if you don't have a child, buy it for yourself.  Warning:  This is NOT a cookery book! (see first review)	2003-11-26
US	31406259	RZ2XQO44M6SEF	1573240699	776725751	Wild Women In The White House: The Formidable Females Behind the Throne, On the Phone, and (Sometimes) Under the Bed (Wild Women Series)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Wild and not-so-wild women	Not all the women in this book are wild, some aren't wild at all, but all the brief essays about them are interesting and amusing.  Many of the women are already well-known, many more are not well-known at all.  It is fascinating to read about all the president's wives with their very different personalities and attitudes to being in the White House.  My absolute favourite is Mamie Eisenhower, who refused to bestir herself about anything and said &quot;all women over fifty should stay in bed till noon.&quot;  I only have three years to go, hooray!  Truly a woman after my own heart. I was a bit taken aback though when Cher's romance at forty with a twenty-two-year old boy is referred to as a December-May romance.  Come, come, Ms. Stephens, forty is scarcely December.  September at the latest.	2003-11-26
US	31406259	R176JVFD4OG7WY	0060014016	79853636	The Greatest Stories Never Told: 100 Tales from History to Astonish, Bewilder, and Stupefy	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Fascinating facts	A very entertaining collection of stories of unusual events and people from history.  Arranged chronologicaly, starting with the Romans who stole time, and proceeding through such enthralling   tales as the man who didn't discover America because he wanted to get home,and king Edward II' valiant but futile attempt to ban soccer (now I know why he was murdered, it was enraged footer fans).  Some cherished myths are briskly disposed of, like the notion that medieval people thought the world was flat, and we learn that the Pilgrim Fathers landed at Plymouth Rock  because they'd run out of beer. A few of the stories in this book were known to me already, most weren't. At $12.57, that's only about 12 cents per fascinating fact, cheap at the price I would say. Who would you say was the most unlikely person to have saved the life of Abraham Lincoln's son?  If you don't know already you need to buy this book.	2003-11-25
US	31406259	R1G55AIVELBCI7	0140301720	594142212	Children on the Oregon Trail (Puffin Books)	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Thrilling pioneer adventure	I was surprised to see nobody else had reviewed this book, I thought it would be better known in America, it was a favourite of mine as a child.  It tells the story of the Sager children, whose parents dream of starting a new life in Oregon.  After they die, the rest of the wagon train decide to turn back, but the oldest Sager child, John, is determined to fulfill his parents' dream and get to Oregon, and he and his brother and sisters run away and set out for Oregon on their own.  John, desperate to get his siblings to Oregon, drives them on with increasing harshness, their journey is fraught with perils and privations, as they struggle towards their goal.  This is a gripping, harrowing story, it's year since I last read it, but it is still vivid in my mind, I can see the Sager children battling the elements, gaunt, starving, with bleeding feet, the valiant cow Anna struggling along with them, utterly enthralling.	2003-11-24
US	31406259	R1TBX1FB1MH9L8	0395202760	710197218	Womenfolk and Fairy Tales	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Wonderful fairy tale collection	This is my favourite anthology of fairy tales with adventurous heroines.  No princesses waiting passively to be rescued here, but enterprising women of all kinds having exciting adventures.  Magical stories like kate Crackernuts and Cap O'Rushes, funny stories like Clever Grethel and The Husband Who Was to Mind the House, one story featuring three generations of remarkable women, the Japanese story Three Strong Women.  Tales from all over the world, exciting dramatic and funny.  This book would make an ideal gift for any girl tired of reading stories where the men have all the adventures.	2003-11-21
US	31406259	R2HCQ6BKI43M7M	089236372X	836320052	Marguerite Makes a Book	Books	5	25	26	N	N	Illuminating book about the Middle Ages	Marguerite's father Jacques is the most famous manuscript illuminator in Paris, when he is injured and cannot finish the book he is working on, Marguerite sets out to do it for him.  We see Marguerite travelling round Paris buying the things she needs to complete the book,   then we see her preparing the pages, mixing the paints, and completing the picture her father was working on.  The story is accompanied by beautiful illustrations showing life in medieval Paris and details of illuminated manuscripts.  This charming book is an ideal intoduction to the middle ages for children (especially girls) showing that there was more to the period than knights in armour and plague.  A lovely and unusual book.	2003-11-20
US	31406259	R1RBBI97WFQLPN	0521010683	572523055	The Skeptical Environmentalist: Measuring the Real State of the World	Books	5	25	33	N	N	The end is not nigh	Environmentalists are rather like Jehovah's Witnesses, both groups keep insisting that we are all doomed, and that the world is heading for disaster, but somehow the world is still there and they keep having to alter their pronouncements to account for the awkward fact that we have not all perished yet.  Bjorn Lomborg's brilliant book shows that the dramatic pronouncements made by the envrionmental movement are nonsense, we are not running out of water or oil or anything else, proportionally fewer people are starving, things are getting better, not worse.  Some of the information in this book was already familiar to me from reading P.J. O'Rourke's wonderful book 'All the Trouble in the World' .  I was pleased to meet again from O'Rourke's book our old friend Paul Ehrlich, the environmentalist who is always making dramatic pronounciations that turn out to be 100% wrong, yet people still listen to him.  Why?  Lomborg isn't as funny as O'Rourke, but then he isn't trying to be, his book is utterly fascinating anyway.  If you have ever been scared by the dire prophecies of an environmentalist, read this book and arm yourself with courage.	2003-11-14
US	31406259	RMTGESLFA5R7Z	0807067938	330545771	The Myth of Matriarchal Prehistory: Why an Invented Past Won't Give Women a Future	Books	5	14	30	N	N	The myth ot Matriarchy demolished	Cynthia Eller does a great job of debunking all the absurd myths about prehistoric matriarchys.  I have never understood why anyoen would have wanted these mythical matriarchal civilisations to exist anyway, they always sounded dead boring to me, all that peace and sharing and equality etc, very tedious.  The absurd notion that women in charge would be any nicer or fairer than men in charge is idiotic anyway, women are just as likely to be cruel and oppresive as rulers, as anyone who knows anything of history will know. Ths book demonstarates the nonsense of such theories anyway, pointing out what shouldn't really need pointing out, i.e. the bleeding obvious fact that worshipping goddesses does not a matriarchy make, goddess-worhshiping cultures are as likley to be patriarchal as any others, and all those 'peaceful' periods in our mythic matriarchal past were actually as warlike and as patriarchal as any other.  A couple of points she makes seem to me suspect, her suggestion that women could make themeselves the equals of men through exercise struck me as a bit unlikely, I seriously doubt that however much women exercise they are ever going to be as strong as men, anyway exercise wears you out, why do you think women live longer than men anyway?  Also she perhaps takes an unnecesarily bleak view of women's lives in ancient Greece, whether you can judge how women were treated by the misogynistic writings of idiots like Aristotle I'm not sure.  At the end of the book she mentions Africans being kidnapped and brought to America as slaves, I have always understood that they were bought rather than kidnapped, a lot of Africans did very well out of the slave trade, the Ashanti I beleive became extremely rich from it, and were extremely annoyed when the trade was abolished.  In general though this is a brilliant book, but I doubt it will convice the likes of Sjoo and Mor, Eisler, Walker, etc, I think they're too far gone in loopinees.	2003-11-14
US	31406259	R35RJ1MWYLL2SN	014100018X	598461998	Chocolat	Books	1	20	37	N	N	Sticky cloying confection	I found this novel quite absurd.  We're supposed to believe that the opening of a chocolat shop in a FRENCH town causes a furore and the enmity of the local priest.  Ridiculous.  France is bursting with chocolat shops, they're everywhere you go, and I don't believe any priest would give a damn.  If the woman had opened a brothel or an opium den or soemthing then I could undeerstand the priest getting upset, but a chocolat shop?  It's too silly for words.  The priest is an absurd caricatur baddie, he might as well be wearing a hat with 'villain' on it.The book is full of heavy-handed church bashing, we are constantly having it rammed home how free-spirited and liberated the heroine is in contrast to the nasty, oppresive priest.  This is an extremely silly book.	2003-11-13
US	31406259	R2OJ5SK3AJEL5M	0345408934	362375459	Mother Nature: Maternal Instincts and How They Shape the Human Species	Books	5	6	12	N	N	Evolution from a female viewpoint	This is a fascinating look at evolution with particular reference to the female of the species.  Packed with fascinating information about female behaviour through the ages. Descriptions of life among hunter-gatherer groups are particularly interesting.  Subjects like infanticide, wetnursing, abandonment of infants, etc are gone into in great detail.  I learnt a lot from this book.  I particularly enjoyed the splendidly bloodthirsty lullabye from the Napoleonic era printed at the end of this book, my children love it.  One small complaint, at one point in this book Ms. Hrdy compares housewives to laboratory rats.  Now, I am used to the abuse routinely heaped on housewives, but this is really going a little too far.  The big difference between a laboratory rat and a housewife is that I, a housewife, can leave my house any time I like (maybe it's different in America, perhaps housewives are kept locked up there, I don't know), and I frequently do.  i have alot more freedom of movement than I would if I were, say, stuck in an office all day long.  I quite accept Ms. Hardy' point that children do not have to be cared  for full-time by their mothers, but it would be nice if she could refrain from abusing those of us who actually enjoy being full-time carers.	2003-11-13
US	31406259	R12SAZRKRGCL7L	0140280243	145747525	A Treasury of Royal Scandals: The Shocking True Stories History's Wickedest, Weirdest, Most Wanton Kings, Queens, Tsars, Popes, and Emperors	Books	2	9	12	N	N	Not as funny as I'd hoped	The cover picture is a bit misleading, this book isn't really very funny.  If you don't know anything about European history, you may find it interesting, but if you do know anything about the sujbect, there isn't lilkely to be much in here to surprise you.  Mr. Farquhar has strong prejudices, he doesn't like Queen Victoria, who he refers to as a 'sourpuss' (she wasn't) and prefers her lecherous son Edward VII.  He tells us that George I was a 'distant' relative of the Stuarts (actually he had as much Stuart blood in him as the Pretenders, which is to say not very much).  The book is divided up rather strangely, anecdotes about various monarchs are scattered through the book, so there are bits of Elizabeth I in one part, more bits in another part etc.  Will Cuppy did this sort of thing so much better.	2003-11-12
US	31406259	R1NDPZ8X8RXERL	159222007X	302851851	Relative Magic	Books	4	23	23	N	N	Nobody else writes like Tanya Huff	It is always a pleasure to get a new Huff, and this collection has got some great stories.  Fans of the Blood series (and who isn't?) will be glad to know there is a new Henry Fitzroy story and a new Vicky Nelson story in this collection.  If you like the Quarter series there's a Bannon and Vree story.  There's an hilarious story about a very, very wicked Queen dictating her outrageous life story to a scribe.  One story 'Oh Glorious Sight' I didn't much care for, it seemed to me to lay on the pathos a bit thick.  My favourite story is 'Nights of the Round Table' in which a down-to-earth cleaning lady at Camelot dispenses advice to a succesion of dopey knights.  One slight dissapointment was to discover that three of the stories I had already in a previously published volume ' Stealing Magic' but this is a minor quibble.  Anything at all by Tanya Huff is always welcome.	2003-11-12
US	31406259	RHK9MSUDTA4U3	0425191788	301916690	Sunshine	Books	2	3	6	N	N	I just can't get excited about cinnamon buns	I have never cared much for Robin McKinley's books, finding her style a bit ponderous for my taste.  At first I thought I was going to enjoy this book more than the others,  but soon found myself getting bored.  The plot is just too slow-moving, nothing happens for ages and ages.  Most of the time the heroine is thinking, or talking about her job in a coffe shop bakery, dwelling at great length on her speciality, cinnamon buns.  I read more about cinnamon buns in the first 100 or so pages of this book than I ever wish to read in a lifetime.  And when she isn't brooding on her cinnamon buns it's muffins or something.  And the vampire, who I assume is going to be the hero, is there for a while and then he dissapears and isn't seen again for ages, he hadn't turned up again by the time I gave up on the book.  He's a boring vampire anyway.  If you want to read a fun vampire story try Tanya Huff's Blood series, or Susan Sizemore, this book is tedious.	2003-11-11
US	31406259	RYHXTQY8XNLGJ	0345391780	608322438	The Princes in the Tower	Books	5	6	19	N	N	The case against Richard III proved.	All right, I admit it, I was one of those people who read 'Daughter of Time' by Jospehine Tey when I was young and believed every word of it, what a nice man Richard was, he couldn't have possibly murdered anyone, he was kind to children and loved his mother etc.  Then about ten years ago I read this book and realised how deluded I had been.  Alison Weir sets forward all the evidence in a clear and concise manner that I think anyone could understand, even, I would have thought, the most fanatical Ricahrd III supporter.  If you can read this book and still believe Richard was innocent, then I admire your loyalty but don't think much of your common sense.  He did it.  Case proven.	2003-11-10
US	31406259	R2VVKO3I6GXOM2	059035342X	667539744	Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Whatever happened to the Philosopher?	This book was published originally as Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone, but the title was changed for America, why?  Is it because they thought... children were too stupid to understand what Philosopher meant?... Any child bright enough to read this book is surely bright enough to understand words like Philosopher.  It is a long, involved, exciting, gripping story with a large cast of varied characters, full of magic and excitement, I can't believe any child who can appreciate this book would be baffled by the word Philisopher.	2003-11-10
US	31406259	R998BXHVA22U1	0898706424	31841332	Women in the Days of the Cathedrals	Books	5	28	28	N	N	Medieval women as they really were.	In a recent TV programme I was surprised to hear Terry Jones, medieval historian and ex-Monty Python, describe women in the middle ages as merely 'chattels'.  This excellent book shows how mistaken this view is.  In Regine Pernoud's fascinating book you can read about the many and varied roles that women had in medieval times.  here are powerful queens and duchesses, influential nuns, women saints, warriors, writers, doctors, tradeswomen and craftswomen, none of them at all chattel-like.  This book shows how a woman like Joan of Arc could become leader of an army, there was nothing unusual in the Middle Ages about a woman taking on such a role.  I had never thought before about the invention of the mill as the first great labour-saving device, but of course as Regine Pernoud points out, it freed women from having to spend their days in the back-breaking task of grinding corn by hand, something women still have to do in parts of the world.  This is an absoultely enthralling book.	2003-11-09
US	31406259	R3RZEIHU6A5RW2	0943233364	323287165	Wild Women: Crusaders, Curmudgeons, and Completely Corsetless Ladies in the Otherwise Virtuous Victorian Era	Books	4	6	12	N	N	Adventurous ladies rediscovered.	Amusing collection of mini biographies of various American ladies rather strangely described as being from the Victorian era(surely it must be called something else in America, i mean sorry but she wasn't your Queen, you know)Some of the ladies I had heard of, many I hadn't, all were fun to read about.  The back of the book proclaims 150 Women gave Queen Victoria fits! even though the book contains at least 2 women whom Queen Victoria greatly admired.  One is Annie Oakley,although Ms. Stephens describes the Queen as 'simpering' at her (I am confident that Queen Victoria never simpered in her life).  The other is Harriet Beacher Stowe, whose novel Dred she prefered to Uncle Tom's Cabin, saying &quot;how interested she was in Nina, how provoked when she died, and how angry that something dreadful did not happen to Tom Gordon&quot;.  Queen Victoria was at least as interesting as any of the women in Autumn Stephens' book, and would I am sure have sympathised with at least some of them.  She gave her name to an entire age in England (and apparently in America too!)	2003-11-09
US	31406259	R3T7HVQPMB77AO	0898707811	834769686	Those Terrible Middle Ages: Debunking the Myths	Books	5	58	58	N	N	A rousing defense of the Middle Ages	Regine Pernoud stoutly defends this most maligned of historical periods in this splendid book.  She clearly shows how mistaken are the ideas about the middle ages as a period of ignorance and superstition.  She writes eloquently about the glories of the middle ages, the wonderful cathedrals and abbeys, illuminated manuscripts, music and poetry.  She shows how nonsensical is the myth of the 'renaissance' the alleged rediscovery of classical learning.  The peopleof the medieval period were quite familiar with classical authors, they simply didn't feel the need to copy them slavishly, unlike the people of the supposedly enlightened period that followed.  Nor was the Middle Ages a period of static social order, as she points out, the son of goatherds became a Pope.  A very revealing passage describes how the old medieval mystery plays, performed by the guilds, were outlawed due to the jealousy of the professional theatre, actors disliked the idea of 'common people' being allowed to act for the benefit of other common people.  The famed 'renaissance' was actually a period  of regression, when the common people were deprived of liberties they had enjoyed in previous centuries, and the position of women in particualr became very much more restricted due to the influence of classical misogyny.  This is a terrific book, take advantage of Amazon's offer and buy this with Women in the Age of the Cathedrals, they are both marvellous books.	2003-11-09
US	31406259	R2775K7GAERYR3	B00005W0D2	303402059	Helen's babies, with some account of their ways: innocent, crafty, angelic, impish, witching and repulsive; also a partial record of their actions during ten days of their existence	Books	4	1	1	N	N	One man and two babies	This book was read to my class at school when I was ten, and we all thought it was hilarious.  Having since then experienced the joys of motherhood I still find it hilarious, and very true.  A bachelor is persuaded to take care of his two small nephews while his sister and brother-in-law have a holiday, and discovers at first hand what small children are really like.  The book wonderfully conveys the unrelenting persistence of small children in pursuit of what they want, as they manage to get their uncle to sing them embarrasing songs in public places, let they play with his watch and ruin it, create havoc around the house etc.  He is harrassed, appalled and sometimes enchanted by his nephews behaviour, as they always seem to manage to perform their most embarrasing antics when the young lady he admires is passing by.  Small children are seen in all their reality, quarrelsome, destructive, greedy, dirty, bloodthirsty and charming.  The book is extremely sentimental, and also extremely funny.	2003-11-08
US	31406259	R1Q6O9S7U0KK4V	0718125045	566466445	Goodbye Soldier (War Biography)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The last part of Spike's six-volume war trilogy	Originally Spike Milligan intended his war memoirs to be a trilogy, but they eventually stretched to six volumes.  This one is less funny than the earlier volumes (monty, His Part in my Victory is the funniest), but still has plenty of humour.  Spike is travelling round Italy with a concert party and meets the exquisite Maria Antoinetta Fontana (Toni) and falls madly in love.  Most of the book is about their romance, culminating in a magical holiday on Capri.  Their romance is so hot I find myself wishing when I read it that they had got married, but they didn't.  Maybe it was better like that, I doubt if Spike was an easy man to live with, and probably Toni would not have much cared for postwar England, how drab it would have seemed after Italy.  He sent her flowers every year for the rest of his life, probably it was just as well they left it like that, a perfect italian romance.	2003-11-08
US	31406259	R264RT9X18WMG7	1883937396	523089439	Between the Forest and the Hills (Adventure Library)	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Fantasy in post-Roman Britain	This charming story is set in Isicum, a Romano-British city in the remote west of Britain, forgotten as the Romans depart Britain and the inhabitants of Iscium feel increasinlgy isolated, with Saxons appearing over the horizon.  A Romano-British boy, Falx, find a litle lost Saxon girl, ulna, in the woods and brings her home to Iscium.  The book is full of delightful characters, like Bishop Malleus,   with a passion for beekeeping, and Teres, the mysterious one-eyed man with ravens on his shoulders, who keeps quoting from books that haven't been written yet.  An entertaining and unusual historical fantasy.  P.S.  The Ann Lawrence who wrote this is not the same Ann Lawrence who writes the books with naked men on the covers, sorry.	2003-11-08
US	31406259	R1CS51M3NUNXVY	158579015X	652673299	No Bed for Bacon	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Much funnier than Shakespeare in Love	This novel jumbles up a host of characters from the Elizabethan Age in golorious confusion.  Shakespeare trying to write his masterpiece 'Love's Labour's Won' and trying to decide how to spell his name, Sir Walter Raleigh desperate to get a new cloak and introduce the Potato at court, Francis Bacon scheming to get his hands on one of Queen Elizabeth's used beds, the Queen herself trying not to make up her mind about anything.  Fictional characters mingle with the real ones, particularly  Viola, the lady-in-waiting in love with the theatre and wanting to be a player, disguising herself as a boy so she can join Shakespeare's company and then falling in love with him.  Sounds familiar?  Yes, but Brahms and Simon did it first, and funnier.	2003-11-08
US	31406259	R33VVJO59P64C8	0860684407	608506680	Up the Country; Letters From India	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Enthralling account of life in India	These wonderful letters were writtne by Emily Eden as she travelled with her brother George, who was Governor-General of India in the late 1830s.  It is clear from these letters that she was not one of those very enthusiastic lady travellers of the period, but the letters are crammed with humour and fascinating observations on Indian life.  She has a more symnpathetic attitude towards the Indians than one might expect of someone of her era.  As the sister of the Governor-General she is constantly being given lavish presents of fabulous jewellery etc, which have to be handed over the the East Indian Company, I much admire the stoicism with which she accepts this, in her place I'd be tempted to hang onto some of those gorgeous jewells and let the company go hang.  Readers of the Flashman novels will recognise some familiar characters in this book, particularly an appearance by the woman who afterwards became lola Montez.  There are some hilarious incidents described, as when they think someone's been carried off by a leopard, when they all go rushing to see they find he's just having anightmare. The letters are full of wonderful descriptions, fascinating characters, lots of humour and plenty of dramatic incidents.  The most absorbing collection of letters I've ever read.	2003-11-08
US	31406259	R16QD2ZSXIWDC6	155970649X	20930892	Falstaff: A Novel	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Falstaff lives again	Shakespeare killed off one of his most interesting characters in Henry V, but Robert Nye has brought him wonderfully to life again in this marvellous novel.  Written in the form of an autobiography, it mingles the life of Shaeksepare's fiction Falstaff with the real-life Sir John Fastolff of Norfolk. His reminiscenses are funny, bawdy, dramatic and sometimes moving, as when he describes villagers dying of the Black Death, or the wretched victims of a long and bitter seige. His amorous adventures are described in some detail, a lot of ladies benefit from his attentions in the course of his long and very active life, his wedding night in the snow sounds chilly, but interesting.  His brief encounters with Joan of Arc are startlingly dramatic (no, he doesn't sleep with her, even Robert Nye draws the line somewhere).  This is a long, absorbing, fascinating and very funny novel.	2003-11-07
US	31406259	R35TK4QFMTLSUH	0812507541	800187385	Summer of the Dragon	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Elizabeth Peters' funniest mystery	The heroine is a young anthropologist, D.J. Abbott (named after Deanna Durbin, but strangely embarrassed by this, why?)She takes a summer job working for eccentric millionaire Hank Hunnicut, who fills his beautiful Arizona home with a variety of charlatans, mediums, experts on Atlantis etc.  She finds herself at daggers drawn with Hank's gorgeous assistant, Tom De Karsky, Elizabeth Peters' sexiest hero.  Permanently hungry, she munches her way through the lavish and delicious meals served at the ranch, while cheerfully goading Hank's preposterous guests.  Her spirited denounciations of the drivel spouted by these charlatans are some of the most amusing passages in the book.  Some of the guests at least are up to no good, hank dissapears and D.J., Tom, and Debbie, the beautiful indian girl who loves Hank, embark on a desperate search.  humour, suspense, romance, and wonderful descriptions of the desert, this book has everything you need for a pleasurable read.	2003-11-07
US	31406259	R3VPWIDXHIOKSU	0380733382	762182979	The Copenhagen Connection	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Fun mystery in wonderful Copenhagen	Elizabeth Jones is flying to Copenhagen for a holiday, and is thrilled to meet on the plane her favourite author, Margaret Rosenberg, am edieval historian. She is less thrilled to meet Margaret's bad-tempered son Christian, but the two of them find themselves having to collaborate, reluctantly, in keeping up with Margaret in her adventures, and tracking her down when she dissapears.  This is a fun mystery story, with lots of humour and lovely descriptions of Copenhagen.  there is one puzzling passage though, where Margaret says to Elizabeth of the middle ages &quot;women were for childbearing, they had no other role&quot;.  If Margaret is meant to be an expert on the Middle Ages, she should know that this is quite untrue, women had many roles in the middle ages, and childbearing was only one of them.  This was the last individual mystery story Elizabeth Peters wrote, at least to date, a pity as I like them much better than any of her series.	2003-11-07
US	31406259	R1OWU4EXPHDS4L	0671789554	9449717	Beware of the Bouquet	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A  perfume to die for	Martha, the heroine of this very entertaining Gothic thriller, works for an advertising agency, who are in Cornwall making a series of commercials for a wonderful new perfume, Avalon.  They are also making commercials for Picnic Soup (the cans of soup are self-heating, but they are stuck with a defective batch, the cans explode when warmed).  Martha finds herself being stalked by someone who wants something from her, but she doesn't know what. She aslo ends up having to care for a kidnapped baby, and gest involved with a very strange religious order.  Interesting characters, lively dialogue, and an exciting story make this book a pleasure to read.  The scene where the heroine fends off the villains with cans of exploding soup is hilarious, and there are many other funny scenes.  One of the best of joan Aiken's adult novels.	2003-11-06
US	31406259	R2UUGL9SWADQZ7	0679444742	977857402	Little Lord Fauntleroy (Everyman's Library Children's Classics Series)	Books	5	14	17	N	N	The New World comes to the Old World	This delightful story has a reputation for being very sentimental, and it is, but it is also filled with humour.  Cedric Errol, an all-American boy, discovers to his dismay that he is the heir to an English earldom, and has to go to England to live with his stern old grandfather, who despises Americans (he must have been reading the Guardian, I suppose).  Gradually they learn to like each other, and the grandfather even comes around to liking Cedric's American mother.  There is a melodromatic sub-plot involving a false heir, but the story is really interesting enough without it.  The best character in the book is Cedric's friend Mr. Hobbs, a staunchly Republican grocer who despises earls \\"I'd like to catch one of em inside here; that's all!\\" he tells Cedric, before he knows Cedric is one of them \\"I'll have no graspin tyrants sittin round on my buiscuit barrels!\\"  By the end of the book though, he has become so attached to Cedric that he sells his grocery business and settles in England, where he becomes an avid follower of aristocratic doings. He says he'll never return to America \\"It's a good enough country for them that's young and stirrin - but there's faults in it.  there's not an aunt-sister among em - nor an earl!\\"  Which pretty much sums up how I feel about America too.	2003-11-06
US	31406259	R21T6XFGMLBH2E	0425164071	287205164	The Maiden's Tale (Sister Frevisse Medieval Mysteries)	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Medieval london brought to life	This is one of the most enjoyable of the Sister Frevisse mysteries.  Dame Frevisse journeys to London to meet the new Prioress of her convent, and stays with her cousin Alice, wife to the ambitious earl of Suffolk.  here she meets Alice's waiting woman, jane, horribly disfigured by a massive birthmark, but determined not to be shut away in a nunnery.  Dame Frevisse is most reluctantly caught up in the political machinations of Suffolk and Bishop Beaufort, and jane is involved too.  The sights and sounds of medieval London are vividly described, you almost think yourself there.  The description of a medieval banquet is particularly enticing, as each course is described you see the range of delicious food that was served in those days (where did English cooking go wrong?)  Dame Frevisse herself is a formidable character, pious, intellectual and shrewd, inclined to be a bit disdainful of anyone who isn't as clever or as pious as she is herself, I love reading her adventures, but I'm glad I don't have to meet her, she'd terrify me.  The supporting characters are interesting as always, and the plot is gripping.  This is a delightful book.	2003-11-06
US	31406259	RWVZ50EMYVOVJ	0880011483	936739680	Staying With Relations	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Adventures in Guatemala	Catherine, an English noivelist, goes to stay with her aunt who has bought  an old Spanish plantation in a Guatemalan forest, here she meets her cousin Isie, recently married, and her aunt's new husband and his four children.  Family complications arise, isie's husband has fallen in love with one of his mother-in-law's stepchildren.  A smooth-talking American conman, Mr Phipps, has his eye on some hidden Indian treasures, and ends up being persued across America by Catherine and her step-cousins.  Full of humorous situations, witty dialogue and amusing characters, and wonderful viviv descriptions of the Guatamalan jungle and its inhiabitants.  Thuis is Rose macaulay's most entertaining novel.	2003-11-04
US	31406259	R35C155T4JBNP5	0860683400	473468515	The World My Wilderness (Virago Modern Classics)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Lost in the ruins of postwar London	Barbary has been living happily with her divorced mother in the south of France, and has spent the war years as a junior member of the Resistance.  Apparently she has been involved in the murder of her French stepfather, considered by the Reistance to be a collaborator, so her mother banishes her to london to live with the father she hasn't seen since she was a young child.  She escapes from the tedium of her father's very conventional household with her stepbrother Raoul, and together they explore the London bombsites, and meet the people who hide there, army deserters and black marketeers.  Barbary longs to return to France and her adored mother, but will her mother ever forgive her for her part in her stepfather's death?  Barbary is a fascinating character, a teenager old beyond her years, intense and fierce, and hopelssly lost in her father's narrow, conventional world.  Not as funny as some of Rose macaulay's other novels, but a fascinating and absorbing story.	2003-11-04
US	31406259	R29FJOA8HME27M	1573241873	818539435	Uppity Women of the New World (Uppity Women Series)	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Women still Uppity across the Atlantic	Another fun collection of short biographies of interesting women, again some I had already heard of , and lots I hand't.  I enjoyed reading all these stories, though occasionaly had heretical thoughts.  For instance, when she writes about Lucinda Foote being turned down for admission to yale, and going on to be a wife and mother with ten children 'what a waste to the world', i found myself harboring the daring notion that maybe lucinda Foote liked being a wife and mother, perhaps she even found raising ten children as intellectualy demanding as she would have found being a yale scholar.  Possible?  Also I simply could not cope with her announcement that Pocahontas's rescue of John Smith was just some boring old adoption ceremony, I flatly refuse to believe that, and I don't care what any old anthropologist says.  In 1624, John Smith wrote &quot;she hazarded the beating out of her own braines to save mine&quot; and that's good enough for me.  Ms. leon seems to be like one of those writers Will Cuppy mentions in the chapter on jhon Smith in 'Decline and Fall of Practically Everybody'.  He says &quot;This story has been denied by several writers who weren't there.  They refuse to believe it because nothing of the sort ever happened to them.&quot;	2003-11-04
US	31406259	R278RILPQP3V5E	1887128190	823855615	Secretary: The Screenplay (ScreenPrint)	Books	4	13	18	N	N	a most unusual secretary	The screenplay of this very funny story of an unusual boss/secretary romance is fun to read if you enjoyed the film, you get to read all the scenes that were cut.  Most of the scenes involve Lee's family and friends, who feature more prominently in the screenplay than they do in the film.  Particularly amusing is a scene where Lee watches her friends waxing their legs, and realises she has found another wonderful way of inlficting pain on herself.  Later she rushes off to the chemist to buy loads of wax, another funny scene cut from the movie.  The introduction, in which Erin Cressida Wilson explains how she came to write the screenplay, is fascinating.  I found myself gritting my teeth with annoyance though, when I read the  interview with director Steven Shainberg at the end of the book.  Talking about Lee's life after the film has ended he says &quot;I don't think she's going to end up a housewife.....this isn't someone who just stays at home&quot;.  Oh no, perish the thought.  It's quite alright to have Lee being spanked, made to climb into a garbage dump, wearing a saddle, crawling on the floor with letters in her mouth, urinating in her wedding dress - but God forbid she should be degraded to the level of being - shock horror - a HOUSEWIFE.  I found myself thinking how nice it would be to be able to push Mr. Shainberg into a very large and smell garbage dump.  Has the thought ever crossed his mind that she might find staying at home preferable to being stuck in some dreary office all day?  No, I don't suppose so.  Oh well, the screenplay is fun to read anyway.	2003-11-04
US	31406259	R130LIGXTVROQ6	0374278547	388891755	Towers of Trebizond	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Delightful eccentrics travelling in Turkey	Three people set off to Turkey with different motives, the narrator with the intention of writing a travel book, her Great-Aunt Dot, a feminist who wants to investigate the position of women in Turkey, and Father Chantry-Pigg, an Angilcan (Episcopalian) missionary.  Their experiences in Turkey are narrated with Rose macualay's usual wit.  Rivalry between writers is amusingly treated as the narrator meets more people who are writing their own Turkey books, all suspicious of each other.  Wishing to visit the site of Troy, she finds that there are an abundance of sites laying claim to that honour.  A Turkish feminist who is convinced that the way forward for Turkish women is to wear hats like English ladies.  This delightful book has a rather abruptly sad ending, but is a joy to read all the same.	2003-11-04
US	31406259	R2SEM5MCB29PGX	B00005WVQ8	939403050	The Snake Has All the Lines	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Funny follow-up to Please Don't Eat the Daisies	More hilarious essays on family and theatrical life from Jean Kerr.  If you enjoyed Please Don't Eat the Daisies (and if you didn't, you must be very hard to please) you will enjoy this book too.  Whether she is writing about coping with children on the beach, going out of town with a show, her fear of flying, her eccentric mother, or Lolit and humbert Humbert consulting a marriage guidance councellor, she is as funny as she was in the earlier book.	2003-11-03
US	31406259	R1W2TAELKDLOOB	0689706111	747463857	The dinner party (from the journal of a lady of today)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Diary of an American Provincial lady	This book was written in frank imitation of the style of E.M. Delafield's Provincial Lady books, the author modestly  observes in the forward that nobody can equal the genius of Delafield's penetrating wit, but says that she offers The Dinner Party 'merely as an effort at showing the harassments and confusions that surround a woman in America today.' Her accounts of trying to arrange the dinner party, getting involved with electioneering, coping with the complex love-life and frightful fiancee of her her elder daughter, and the ups-and-downs of her friends, are very amusing .  The style may be in imitation of Delafield, but the humour is her own.	2003-11-03
US	31406259	R36TXF1PRZWNCV	157324127X	570418562	Uppity Women of the Renaissance	Books	4	4	7	N	N	More stories of famous and forgotten women	Another entertaining collection of mini biographies of women from the well-known to the obscure.  one or two of the stories slightly puzled me.  For instance, there is an interesting story about a doctor trying to concot a remedy for the plague out of badgers, but his wife's role seems to consisted of dying of the plague, not a particularly uppity thing to do, couldn't quite see what she was doing there.  Also Vicki leon, rather oddly ,seems to have swallowed all that nonsense about the Renaissance being a time when individuality was born etc, it's as if she hasn't read her earlier book 'Uppity Women of Medieval Times' which is full of individuals.  @Renaiisance' was a term invented in the 19th century to describe something that never actually happened, individuality, art.learning etc flourished throughout the Middle Ages, there was no 'Renaissance'.  Also she is still going on about  witchhunts being a 'holocaust'(insulting to vicitms of the real holocaust.  The number of people executed as witches wasfar fewer than she claims, they were not all women, and the imputus for witchhunts came from commoners, not from the church or the state.  But anyway, these stories of interesting women are fun to read, and I always find lots of women I'd never heard of before.  Another fun read.	2003-11-03
US	31406259	R158LRZPUN3EFX	0848805526	163601589	Please Don't Eat the Daisies	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Please do read this book	An hilarious collection of essays by Jean Kerr , playwright, wife and mother.  Very funny and unsentimental accounts of family life, full of wonderfully quotable lines.  For instance, when she speaks of looking for a larger house &quot;I wanted a house that would have four bedrooms for the boys, all of them located some distance from the living-room - say in the next country somewhere&quot;.  Her comments on theatrical life are as funny as her comments on family life, as when she observes that the failure of a play, according to the producer, is always to be blamed on &quot;that first-night audience&quot;.  She understands children better than any child psychologist, as when she observes that you should never say to children &quot;Are you trying to drive your poor moomy smack out of her mind?&quot; Of course they are, but do you think they'll admit it?&quot;  A funny, funny book.	2003-11-03
US	31406259	R1KE1ZDD1BY4P4	1573240397	668497824	Uppity Women of Medieval Times	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Another enjoyable Uppity Women collection	I enjoyed Uppity Women of Ancient Times very much, so i was very pleased to discover this follow-up volume, another collection of brief biographies of interesting women.  In this volume I found many characters I already knew, and many more I did not.  A few minor quibbles, the author's definition of 'medieval' seems to be a bit elastic, it appears to go up to the 17th century, which is not as far as I know generally considered to be part of the medieval period.  Also she is a bit prone to exaggeration, especially when she talks about the 'witch craze' being a holocaust against women.  She mentions a figure of 100,000 executed, whereas I beleive the real fugre is more like 40,000, not all of them women.  Also she conveniently ignores the fact that while most the victims were women, so were most of their accusers.  Also she seems to have the modern obsession with careers, though the modern notion that the only worthwhile way to spend your time is in some kind of paid employment was not in vogue in the middle ages, women who worked more likely did so from economic necessity, rather than from any desire  to be 'career women'.  These are minor quibbles though, the stories of the women are amusingly told, and there is a bibliography at the back for those interested in learning more (a pity it includes Barbara Walker's Encyclopedia of Myths and Secrets, which is pure fantasy).  Overall, a very amusing read.	2003-11-01
US	31406259	RZ5KHMLPQYHC4	0441002528	561311753	The Godmother's Apprentice	Books	5	1	1	N	N	An enchanted journey through Ireland	In this utterly delightful sequel to The Godmother Sno Qunatrill travels to Irleand to begin her apprenticeship.  Irish mythology, history and politics  are woven into the fabric of the story, with delightful characters, lots of wit and humour and an exciting, gripping plot.	2003-10-31
US	31406259	R2KL6EG2CTQ3AX	0698106059	194434641	The Joy of the Snow	Books	5	54	54	N	N	A joyful autobiography	Miss Goudge's autobiography has all the qualities that makes her fiction such a pleasure to read, vivid, interesting characters, marvellous descriptions of places, and lovely touches of humour. The earlier part of her life is described in the grteatest detail, her childhood in Wells, her teenage years in Ely, her twenties and thirties in oxford, where her father was Regius Professor of Theology.  As in her novels, spirituality is very a very improtant part of the book, there are many accounts of religious and supernatural experiences, both her own and others, particularly those of her mother, whose life was blighted by illness and pain, but who remained gay and vivacious throughout her painful life, buoyed up by religious faith and indomitable courage.  The humorous touches are wonderful, as when she describes the convoluted relationships on her father's side of the family, where there had been much intermarriage between cousins etc.  One of her relatives once tried to sort out the family tree, but \\"on coming to the conclusion that he was his own uncle,he gave up in despair.\\"  If you have enjoyed reading miss Goudge's novels, you will want to read this too.	2003-10-30
US	31406259	R1RC7ULCL4GJZL	0140032142	654492655	Psmith Journalist	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Psmith at large in New York	This isn't Wodehouse's funniest novel, but  it is definitely the most exciting, with a more dramatic plot than usual.  Psmith takes on a crooked slum landlord, hounding him through the pages of 'Cosy moments' a bland family paper that he has transformed with the help of assistant editor Billy Windsor.   Psmith is a wonderful character, languid, frivolous and comic on the surface, tough man of action underneath, a modern Pimpernell.  there are some wonderful comic characters, especially Bat Jarvis, the tough gangland boss with a passion for cats.  I wish Wodehouse had written more about Psmith, he could have been the hero of a whole series of thrillers, with Mike Jackson as his stalwart sidekick.  Instead Wodehouse married him off in the next Psmith novel (Leave It To Psmith) and we hear no more of him, what a pity!	2003-10-30
US	31406259	RO77QXEDQTYIA	0688103979	570018031	Coromandel Sea Change: A Novel	Books	5	9	9	N	N	A wonderful story in a fabulous setting	This story is set in Patna Hall, a delightfully old-fashioned hotel on the stunning Coromandel coast in southern India.  A local election has filled the hotel with workers for the Root and Flower Party, and the other hotel guests get caught up in the election fever, especially Mary, on her honeymoon, but increasingly fascinated by Krishnan, the Root and Flower candidate.  Auntie Sanni, the hotel proprietor is a delightful character, and the rest of the hotel staff are a a fascinating bunch.  As election day approaches, anger and jealousy come to the boil as Mary's husband understandably gets more and more fed up about his wife's absorbtion in the election.  A gripping story from beginning to end.  Warning: do not read this book if you are hungry, there are mouth-watering descriptions of unbearably delicious things to eat throughout the book.	2003-10-30
US	31406259	R4Y7TS4E9NOJZ	0140144382	537209871	Witches and Neighbors: The Social and Cultural Context of European Witchcraft	Books	5	16	21	N	N	The best book on the history of witchcraft I've ever read	Ths book is packed with enthralling detail from begtinning to end.  All sorts of msiconceptions I had previously held about the subject were blown away by this marvellous book.  For instance, it is evident that recent writers on the subject have wildly exaggerated the numbers of people put to death as witches, it is often given as several millions, whereas Briggs shows that the actual number is about 40,000.  Also another misconnception, that withces were always female, whereas in fact of those put to death about 20% were men, in some areas, men were in the majority of those killed.  Also, most of the accusers tended to be women themselves, contrary to the feminist fantasy that it was all about wiched men persecuting women etc.  Another fantasy, that midwives were persecuted as witches, weheras in fact when midwives were involved in witchtrials it was generally as inspectors of the accused, to look for suspicious marks on their bodies.  There isn't a dull page in this enthralling book.	2003-10-30
US	31406259	R2N06JW0OWODFC	0684803860	59773996	The Daughter of Time	Books	3	3	13	N	N	Richard the Third was guilty	This book is very clever and well-written, and when I first read it at the age of about sixteen I found it totally convincing.  Yes, yes, of course Richard was a nice man, of course he was innocent.  It wasn't until year later when I read some real history books on the subject that I realised that the book is not sound history.  A bedridden police inspector decides Richard must be innocent because he likes his face?  That seems to me an extremely dangerous  supposition to start from.  If it was possible to tell if a person was guilty or innocent merely by looking at their face,then we could do away with trial by jury altogethere &quot;yes, m'lud, he's innocent, just look at his face&quot;. Richard III usurped the throne from his nephews, imprisoned them in the tower, then they just happened to dissapear, whoops, he mislaid them?  Just coincidence/ I don't think so.  Read 'The Princes in the Tower' by Alison Weir if you're interested in learning what (probably) really happened.	2003-10-29
US	31406259	R3TTEYSZ1KIS75	0747248435	402138742	Murder at the Music Hall (Auguste Didier Whodunnit)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	The cooking detective triumphs again	Another entertaining episode featuring French Chef and reluctant detective Auguste Didier.  Threats are being made against the life of music hall star William Lamb, and Auguste is persuaded to take a job as cook at the theatre's eating-house, in order to keep an ey on Lamb.  Unfortunately, he can't prevent Lamb's murder, which seems to be linked to the dissapearance of a treasure from Windsor Castle.  Enter Inspector Rose of Scotland Yard to try and sort it out.  Amusing characters and convincing period detail makes this book an enjoyable read, as the professional detective and the reluctant amateur join forces once again.	2003-10-28
US	31406259	R1GYMPAJMNPWXE	0848813391	219279098	A City of Bells	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Enchanting city	HThis lovely story is set in Torminster (a lightly disguised Wells) at the turn of the last century.  Jocelyn, injured in the Boer War, comes to stay with his saintly Grandfather and sharp Grandmother, and their grandchildren, the practical, questioning Hugh Anthony, and intense, artistic Henrietta.  Jocelyn opens a bookshop in Torminster, much to Grandmother's disgust - a grandson in trade, o horror! &quot;But the apostles were in trade, dear - fish&quot; Grandfather points out.  &quot;What has that to do with it?&quot; she retorts &quot;the Apostles were not my grandsons!&quot;  The book is full of delightful characters, vivacious Felicity whom Jocelyn loves, eccentric Mrs Jameson whose husband was eaten by cannibals, the haughty Dean, the determinedly bachelor Bishop, neurotic poet Gabriel Ferranti, and many others.  The story is full of details about the cathedral year and customs and has strong religious felling running through it, but a lot of humour too.  Miss Goudge wrote two more books featuring the same cast of characters, Sister of the Angles and Blue Hills, they are all delightful.	2003-10-28
US	31406259	R3H2NNPGMX4DE	0312143761	318092173	Murder Makes an Entree: A Victorian Whodunit	Books	4	6	6	N	N	The reluctant detective	I was surprised to read the rather lukewarm editorial reviews for this series, I think they're alot of fun.  Auguste Didier, a French Chef who loves English cooking, just wants to be left in peace to  get on with his cooking, but keeps getting involved in murders, much against his will.  In this instalment he is in the seaside resort of Broadstairs, preparing a banquet for a metting of literary Lions celebrating the life of Charles Dickens (Broadstairs is full of Dickens associations).  One of the guests at the banquet unexpectedly expires, and poor Auguste is dragged into the mystery.  Luckily Inspector Rose of Scotland Yard is holidaying in nearby Ramsgate, so he is on hand to help Auguste solve the crime.  This is a very amusing series with likeable characters and lots of interesting period detail, I'm sorry they don't seem to be better liked.	2003-10-28
US	31406259	R3SO509U7NMFIQ	0312551290	704105950	Mrs. Hurst Dancing and Other Scenes from Regency Life 1812-1823	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A fascinating glimpse of Regency life	The pictures in this enchanting book will be a revelation to  anyone who only knows about life in the Regency period from reading, say the novels of Jane Austen, whose young ladies lead very decorous lives.  It is clear from Diana Sperling's books that some young ladies at least enjoyed a greater variety of occupations than sewing and playing the pianoforte.  This book is full of marvellous pictures of Diana and her sisters riding donkeys and horses (and falling off them), getting stuck in the mud while out walking, digging up plants in the garden, fishing, bathing in the river, and doing all sorts of things.  One of my favourite pictur4es shows them trying to get a horse up a steep embankment, one pulling on the reins from above, the other two pushing the horse from below.  Diana Sperling's drawings are sheer delight, with the distinctive little spindly figures, and her wonderful eye for humorous detail.  Anyone at all interested in Regency life is bound to be fascinated by this marvellous book.	2003-10-27
US	31406259	R2FGT5RL81BJ5W	038502651X	614323979	My Favorite Intermissions: Victor Borge's Lives of the Musical Greats and Other Facts You Never Knew You Were Missing	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Surprising secrets of the great composers	This hilarious book tells you all the things you never knew about the lives of famous composers.  If you want to read about Beethoven in jail, Strauss being picketed by his second wife, the wild romantic infatuations of Berlioz, and Verdi rleuctantly writing operas when he only wanted to raise horses, this is the book for you.  you don't actually have to be interested in composers or classical music to enjoy this book, it is just very very funny.  You'll never feel the same about the 'Ring' cycle again when you've read about Wagner's pink satin underwear.	2003-10-27
US	31406259	R1J3O6PXHG7NC4	0030626900	488400825	Sea Is All Around	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Island magic	Mab, a little girl who has lived all her life in Iowa and never seen the ocean, goes to live with her Aunt Belinda on Pokenick Island and discovers a fascinating new world.  As always i Elizabeth Enright's books there are lots of colourful and fascinating characters, old people with enthralling stories about their youth being a speciality of hers.  The island  is described so vividly you can almost smell the sea and feel yourself enveloped by the fog coming in.  A delightful book, a pity it only seems to be available in rather pricy editions, it's one of Elizabeth Enright's best.	2003-10-27
US	31406259	R3T8RGKTZ3S815	1565120558	777429321	Jane Austen's The History of England	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Jane Austne's funniest book	This hilarious little book is full of wonderfully biased observations on the Kings and Queens of England between henry the 4th and Charles the 1st.  Of Henry VI she writes fiercely \\"I cannot say much for this monarch's sense, nor would I if I could, for he was a Lancastrian\\"  She is a supporter of Richard III's claim to innocence, averring that he may not have murdered his wife for \\"if Perkin Warbeck were really the Duke of York, why not might Lambert Simnel be the widow of Richard?\\"  She includes a very rique charade on the homosexual habits of king James I.  I feel that Sellar and Yeatman, who wrote '1066 and All That'may have derived inspiration from this book, her N.B. at the beginning 'there will be very few Dates in this History' has a very Sellar and yeatman sound. I increasingly find Jane Asuten's Juvenilia more amusing than her later works, and this book is a prime example.	2003-10-27
US	31406259	RNGZHLUQGN7OQ	0434933058	759336661	She, the Adventuress	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A fun shipboard adventure	Maggie is a young girl travelling on an ocean liner from New York to Genoa to stay with her aunt.  She finds herself sharing a cabin with an old lady, and makes the mistake of calling her a Senior Citizen. &quot;Maggie, start praying.  Pray that when you grow old you grow to be an old lady, not an old commodity called a Senior Citizen&quot; Maggie and the old lady, Miranda Stoen, get along fine after that, and she also finds herself getting involved with helping a mysterious boy stowaway, not to mention foiling art smugglers.  The book is set mainly on the ship, and also in Lisbon, Naples and Genoa, and is a very amusing and lively story.  A sequel, she and the Dubious Three, relates Maggie's adventures in Venice.  A piyt there aren't any more, I would have liked to read more about Maggie.	2003-10-27
US	31406259	R2G11Q16GQELW2	0375759174	569473707	Northanger Abbey (Modern Library Classics)	Books	4	1	7	N	N	Jane Austen blows her chance to be a great mystery writer	This is a very amusing novel, and Cathereine Morland's adventures in Bath are very entertaining.  But after she gets to Northanger Abbey it is a bit of a letdown. When she starts to suspect that General Tilney has done away with his wife, how much better it would have been if that had, in fact, been the case.  naturally Catherine would find the proof to convict the General.  It could have been the start of a gret mystery series, under the general title of the Morland Mysteries, or Miss Morland Investigates.  Hnery Tilney could have been her amiable but obtuse sidekick, poor old henry, he never gets the murderer's identity right.  Miss Austen missed a golden opportunity here.  It's not that I don't like her novels, I do very much, it's just that I think they'd be better if there were more murders in them.	2003-10-27
US	31406259	R1M90CYYRDIKJV	0441822134	853114672	Traveller in Time	Books	5	9	9	N	N	The most convincing time travel story I've ever read	Reading this book, it is hard to believe that the author has not actually visited the 16th century in person.  The heroine, Penelope, staying with her great-aunt Tissie and great-uncle Barnabas at Thackers Farm in Derbyshire, finds herself unexpectedly able to pass back and forth from the present (late 19th century) to the reign of Elizabeth I.  Here she meets the Babington family, who plot to save mary Queen of Scots from captivity in nearby Wingfield Manor.  Her distant ancestor, Cicely Taverner, is cook to the Babbington family, and the descriptions of the servants lives and conversations are utterly convincing, more so than the rather romanticised upper-class Babbingtons.  The Thackers Farm of the past comes to be more real to penelope than the present-day place.  The escape of the Queen of SCots is doomed to fail, and Penelope knows it, but can do nothing to change history.  I understand Alison Uttley had plans to write a sequel to this lovely book, it is fascinating but frustrating to imagine what it would have been like.	2003-10-27
US	31406259	R2SWYK3PTUHAZ5	0330411896	825975444	The Guy Next Door (UK Edition)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Comedy in e-mails	This very funny comedy/romance/thriller is written entirely in e-mails.  the heroine, Mel, saves her elderly neighbour who has been assaulted, and finds herself stuck with the old lady's enormous Great Dane, Paco.  This sets off a train of complications in her life, leading to her getting involved with a man who is pretending to be her neighbour's nephew.  The e-mails get funnier and funnier in the course of the book, particularly hilarious are the increasingly sarcastic ones to Mel from her exasperated boss, as she spends less and less time at the office while her personal life grows more complex.  Mel's parents seem excessively prim and innocent for people who can't be, I might as well face it, much older than me, but maybe in America people in their fifties are like that.  Whatever were they doing in the 60s, i wonder?  As a great fan of the Princess Diaries, I wondered if Meg Cabot would be as funny writing for adults, but she is.	2003-10-27
US	31406259	R7E73NA307RSH	0848817397	626293141	Blue Hills	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Return to enchanting Torminster	This is the third of Elizabeth Goudge's books to be set in Torminster (Wells) at the turn of the last century.  It features the same cast of characters as A City of Bells and Sister of the Angels, romatic, artistic Henrietta, practical, self-satisfied Hugh Anthony, saintly Grandfather and sharp Grandmother, irresponsible poet Grabriel Ferranti, gentle Jocelyn and hsi vivacious wife Felicity, the haughty Dean, eccentric Mrs Jameson whose husband was eaten by cannibals, and an assortment of elderly clergymen and their wives.  Going on a birthday picnic for Hugh Anthony, the principal characters all get lost and have very strange adventures, encountering (possibly) supernatural beings and having life-changing experiences.  Being a children's book, the atmosphere is much lighter than in A City of Bells, and everyone's problems are resolved rather more easily than they would otherwise have been (mrs Jmeason is cured of her sazdness over her husband's gruesome end by acquiring a music box with a singing bird),but the characters are just as lovable and interesting as they are in the other books, and there is a lot of humour, as there is in all Miss Goudge's books.	2003-10-27
US	31406259	R230QF5VVE3ULI	0380731185	945791839	Legend in Green Velvet	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Delightful comedy thriller	This is my favourite Elizabeth Peters novel.  The heroine, Susan, is a romantic young American archaeologist in love with Scotland and all things Scottish.  Staying in Edinburgh on her way to join a dig in the Highlands, she is mistaken for somebody else, implicated ina murder, and finds herself going on the run with Jamie, an unromantic young Scot who bears an uncanny resemblance to a Very Important Person.  The book abnounds with amusing characters, especially jamie's crazy Scottish nationalist father, and a trio of ancient lady doctors.  Funny, exciting and full of details about Scotland and Scottish history. One minor quibble.  At one point Susan desc ribes George I as a 'distant' relative of the Stuarts.  he wasn't very distant, he was a direct descendent of King jmaes I, and had as much SCottish blood in him as Bonnie Prince Charlie, which is to say not very much.  What a pity Elizabeth peters doesn't write contemporary thrillers any more, i like them so much better than her series featuring tiresome Amerlai Peabody.	2003-10-26
US	31406259	R3H425HGMR5N44	999498750X	335593780	Envious Casca	Books	5	1	1	N	N	ingenious Christmas Mystery	A disagreeable rich old man is murdered at a family Christmas gathering, but the door of the room in which he was murdered is locked, so how was it done?  A houseful of discontented relatives all with motives, can Inspector Hemingway solve the mystery?  The solution to how the murder was done hinges on a biography of Empress Elizabeth of Austria, but the book has gone missing.  The plot is clever and original, the characters interesting, and there is some very funny dialogue. Inspector Hemingway is a delightful detective.  What a pity Georgette heyer didn't write more detective stories, she was so good at them.	2003-10-26
US	31406259	R2R3IAXNGHYBD6	0316075086	201935287	Sophia Scrooby Preserved	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A truly original heroine	This is the entrancing story of a little African girl, Nono, who becomes a slave by accident.  Named Pansy by the starving sailor with whom she shares her meagre rations on the slave ship, her adventures take her from Africa to America, then to England and finally to Canada.  A brave and resourceful heroine who triumphs over adversity, and by a twist of fate ends up being the saviour of the family who had previously owned her as a slave.  Full of humour and delightfully eccentric and memorable characters, black and white, the adventures of Nono/Pansy/Sophia are a joy to read. A unique book.	2003-10-25
US	31406259	RL6QQZET7JNUM	0973157003	21831642	The Face of the Tiger	Books	5	93	99	N	N	Hilarious, savage, and moving	I've been a fan of Mark Steyn's brilliant column in the Telegraph for years now, it's great to finally have a book of his wonderful articles.  These articles covera year from September 11 2001 to September 11 2002, and are all entrhalling to read.  On the subject of September 11 he is deeply moving, his articles on this subject brought tears to my eyes.  he can just as easily make you laugh, he's hysterically funny on the subject of the 'brutal Afghan winter' among other things.   This book is brilliant and fascinating, there isn't a dull sentence in it.	2003-10-25
US	31406259	R3GWSCA32GC1IY	B00005XH7E	95462964	How to get from January to December	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Rejoice! There is another Will Cuppy!	Thank God for Amazon.  Without them I would never have known that there was another book by the sublime Cuppy.  This book has an essay for every day of the year, on a variety of subjects, history, science, nature, even cookery, and all of them hilarious. There are delightful illustrations by john Ruge. If you wanted to cheer yourself pu every morning, you could read each essay on the approporiate day, and spend the rest of the day chuckling.	2003-10-25
US	31406259	R2DRKZQYSQNALM	0440207452	877430723	The Sirens Sang of Murder	Books	5	9	9	N	N	The funniest of them all	This is the third of Sarah Caudwell's sublimely funny murder mysteries narrated by Hilary Tamar, professor of legal history at Oxford, and featuring her young barrister friends.  All four of these books are hilarious, and this is the funniest of the lot.  Not many books in my life have made me cry with laughter, but this one reduced me to tears on several occasions.  The adventures of young Michael Cantrip (educationaly disadvantaged, poor boy, he went to Cambridge)in the Channel Islands and in France and Monaco are full of wildly funny incidents.  The poor boy has to suffer spending five hours shut in the boot of a car, being locked in a wine celler by a dotty waiter etc, meanwhile back in london his colleagues are having to cope with his barmy uncle.  The plot is amazingly convoluted, and like all the books you may find yourself getting a bit lost in the complexity of the financial details, but who cares.  Just enjoy the ingenious story, the wonderful characters, the witty dialogue, and Sarah Caudwell'smarvellous style.  What a tragedy that there are only four of these marvellous books.	2003-10-25
US	31406259	RR7QG1QH1AEQZ	1851450017	288065469	The Compleet Molesworth	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Up with molesworth	The Molesworeth books made me laugh when I was the same age as Molesworth, and they still make me laugh now I ma probably the same age as headmaster GRIMES chizz chizz chizz.  Delightful to find all four books in one volume, and encounter again Molesworth himself, and Peason, Fotherington-Thomas who sa hello clouds, hello sky and skip like a girlie, Sigismund the mad Maths master, and all the rest.  Willan's hilarious prose and Searle's marvellous drawings complement each other perfectly.  Like a previous reviewer, I too would like to knwo what the Mrs Joyful prize looks like, but you can't have everything.  As for another reviewer worrying about spelling Willan's name wrong, well, who knows how to spell Willan anyway?  For years and years I thought his name was Williams! Spelling is for girlies anyway.	2003-10-25
US	31406259	R3JNHEEZ1G81XU	0312306326	631084691	Visions of Sugar Plums: A Stephanie Plum Holiday Novel (Stephanie Plum Novels)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Sparkling Christmas Plum	I was astonished to read so many negative reviews of this utterly delightful story.  I read it three times last Christmas, and may well read it three times again this Christmas.  Hilariously funny like all the Plum novels, and with all the delightful supporting characters there, Lula and Grandma Mazur and Valerie and Albert kloughn etc, what more could anyone want. I did feel a slight pang of discontent though when Diesel appeared.  &quot;She's already got TWO gorgeous men lusting after her&quot; I found myself thinking rather sulkily &quot;does she really need a third?&quot;  But what the hell, it is Christmas after all, why shouldn't she?  The scene where she is attacked by crazy elves is particularly funny.  How can anyone who loves the Stephanie plum novels not love this one too?  It beats me.	2003-10-25
US	31406259	R2JBOPRAVMFY0Q	0446532231	628954405	Dude, Where's My Country?	Books	1	16	51	N	N	I could do with less of Michael Moore	Another book in which Michael Moore tells us how wicked white men make the world a terrible place for everyone else.  The same obsessions are recycled from his previous books.  For instance, his fixed belief that the only people who are anti-abortion are right-wing men.  For all I know, this may be the case in America, but it certainly isn't in England, where many of most eloquent pro-life advocates are women.  His attitude towards women strikes me as patronising, likewise his attitude towards 'ethnic minorities' who, he seems to fell, are incapable of achieving anything without help from the white establishment.  Also, for someone of his alleged egalitarian views, it seems strange that he sneers at countries allied with America for being small or poor, evidently only rich, powerful countries count for anything in his viewpoint.  He is also apparently an expert on Northern ireland, being very pally with the Sinn Fein, who apparently are ready to renounce violence.  Maybe they should tell that to their pals in the IRA, who don't seem to have got the message yet.  Anyone who wants an antidote to michael moore's pontificating should read Mark Steyn's savagely funny and brilliant 'Eye of the Tiger'.	2003-10-25
US	31406259	R157M9TQTOR6BV	0800865669	808338569	Queen Victoria was amused	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A very merry monarch	This wonderful book shows how mistaken the popular view of Queen Victoria is, of a dull, straightlaced humorous woman.  In fact, she was a fun-loving person with a wonderful sense of humour, and quite surprisingly broad-minded. Her life was filled with laughter, and this book is full of marvellous anecdotes about her.  Her opinions wer often very unconventional, for instance she was sympathetic towards unhappily married women, even to the point of condoning adultery, a very unusal view for her time.  She was fiercely opposed to the sabbatarian movement, which wanted to prevent people from enjoying themselves on Sunday.  She surrounded herself with people who amused her (only a person with a strong sense of humour could have tolerated john Brown. )You cannot read this book without becoming an ardent fan of this most misunderstood Queen.	2003-10-25
US	31406259	RE78RKSIWMDUV	0812825136	200492974	He: An Irreverent Look at the American Male	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Miss King doesn't like this book, but I do	In The Florence king Reader, miss king says this is the book of hers that she likes least.  But it contains some wonderfully funny passages, including what I think is the funniest bit in any of her books.  This occurs in the chapter 'The Sperm and I' where she is attempting to insert her diaphragm and the cat pounces on it and makes off with it.  The description of her chasing the cat to try and get it back had me in tears of laughter.  Wonderfully funny too is the passage where her grandma and Emma are eulogising their dead husbands, to the accompaniment of sarcastic comments from their relatives. This is a very, very funny book, what a pity it is out of print.	2003-10-24
US	31406259	RQ4WI2MVQ4U1J	0192854496	279569564	The Triumph of the Moon: A History of Modern Pagan Witchcraft	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Triumph of Common Sense	This book gives a clear, convincing history of the development of the 'religion' of witchcraft, showing quite clearly that the movement is 20th century in origin, and that extravagant claims about the antiquitiy of the religion have no basis in reality. Mr hutton shows that claims about the ancient origins of the witchcraft religion are nonsense, but he is always kind and polite, and never ridicules the beliefs of modern wiccans, he must be the world's most tactful historian.  An earlier review of this book claims to have attended a workshop by someone who says she knows of a 'hidden' Pagan village in England, dating back to before the Norman conquest and only discovered in the 1990s.  I don't think this reviewer can ever have been to England.  We are a very small country, with 9as P.J. O'Rourke puts it)'A population density like Macy's toy department at Christmas'.  There aren't any hidden Pagan villages here because there's nowhere to hide them, okay?	2003-10-24
US	31406259	R27G9HTC71QOB5	0552993751	552538236	When Sisterhood Was in Flower	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Hilarious satire on feminism	This blissfully funny novel tells the story of Isabel, an introverted writer who finds herself to her horror having to share an apartment with Polly, a humourless radical feminist who drives her crazy.  Then they encounter Gloria, a medievalist with an obsession about the gruesome death of Edward the Second.  Polly inherits a house in California, and they set off to travel there, on the way they gather up Agnes, an abused housewife running away from her husband, and Martha, an elderly divorcee.  The book is full of wonderfully funny incidents and marvellous characters.  Gloria the crazed medievalist is particularly hilarious.  The part where Isabel takes a job as a writer of porno novels is hysterically funny.  I wish Florence King would write a sequel, I'd love to read more about this craz bunch of characters.	2003-10-24
US	31406259	R3AYUDFUGYF7G6	0750917164	10780395	1066 and All That: A memorable history of England	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Still funny after 37 years	I first read this book when I was 10, and 37 years later I still find it just as funny as the first time.  It is possibly the best,  and certainly the funniest, history of England ever written.  From the Roman invasion of 55 B.C. (&quot;the first genuine date in English history&quot;), through to 1930, when &quot;America was thus clearly top nation, and history came to a .&quot; there is hilarity on every page.  The brilliant text is accompanied by amusing drawings on every page, and just about every sentence in the book is  memorable.  The only thing wrong with this gem of a book is that it is so short, I can never make reading it last long enough.  As brilliant as Will Cuppy's 'Decline and Fall of Practically Everybody', though a different sort of humour.	2003-10-23
US	31406259	RYC8BJIB1QPFZ	0895947226	961960701	O Mother Sun!: A New View of the Cosmic Feminine	Books	5	10	10	N	N	sun goddesses rediscovered	This is a delightful book full of fascinating sdtories about the sun goddesses of the world.  it is a perfect book to read as an antidote to all those authors who insist tiresomely on the male sun/ female moon stereotype. Fascinating stories beautifuly told, a pleasure to read from beginning to end.Strange how the idea of sun goddesses seems to frighten a lot of people especially feminist spirituality types, I wonder why?	2003-10-23
US	31406259	R84U31H5FN4OW	0879235144	275053600	The Decline and Fall of Practically Everybody	Books	5	25	28	N	N	the funniest history book ever written	I must have read this book twenty times at least, and I never get tired of it.  Every time it seems just as funny, as Will Cuppy tells us about the lives of historical characters, from Cheops ( or khufu) through to Catherine the Great, taking in such diverse characters as Cleopatra, Attila the hun, Lady Godiva, henry the eight, John Smith, and miles Standish. His wonderful dry comments are hilarious, as on Charlemagne who was born in the dark ages when people were not very bright.  They have been getting brighter and brighter ever since, until finally the are like they are now'Or on the American revolution , started because the colonists had to pay takes to which their consent had not been asked ' today we pay taxes  but our consent has been asked, and we have told the government to go ahead and tax us all they want to.  We like it'This is a sublime book, the one I'd take with me to a desert island if i had to choose only one.	2003-10-23
US	31406259	RU2VUJ5M5ZYO2	0062507915	509962121	The Great Cosmic Mother: Rediscovering the Religion of the Earth	Books	1	36	181	N	N	feminist fantasy gone craz\y	This bizarre book makes wind claims about the existnece of peaceful, matriarchal societies which are entirely unsubstantiated, there is no evidence that there ever were any such societies, it is a totally improbable idea.  The reasons why men are, and have been the dominant esex for most of human history are quite simple.  they are bigger, stronger, faster, and they don't get pregnant.  These are inbuilt biological advantages, bestowed by nature.  Civilisation can correct them to a certain extent, but Sjoo and Mor don't seem mto like civilisation much either, too 'patriarchal' for them.  they also make the same old mistake of assuming that because a society worhsipped goddesses, that made them matriarchial.  This is rubbish, you only have to look at present-day goddess-worshipping societies to see what nonsense this is.  Is India  a matriarchal society?  I don't think so.  Nor is it true that all goddesses are associated with the moon, there are plenty of sun goddesses in world mythology, and moon gods.  They seem to dissaprove of modern technology, but whom has it benefitted if not women, I should like to know.  They'd rather have a society with a high rate of infant mortality and women dying in childbirth, would they?  No plumbing, no electricity, no refrigeration, no washing machines etc.  Sooner them than me.  This book really is a load of complete twaddle.  A woman-led society would be most unlikely to be peaceful, in any case, women who get into positions of power are generally as pushy and belligerent as any man can be.  the fantasy that women are nicer than men is not shared by any woman who ever attended a girls-only school(me, for instance).  Do not take any notice of this idiotic book.	2003-10-23
US	31406259	R3R9FIEA3DXU4E	0140192921	959644	The Myth of the Goddess: Evolution of an Image	Books	1	25	215	N	N	another goddess fantasy work	yet another book written by fanciful feminists dreaming of some (wholly imaginary) matriarchal past.  The book is full of wild unsubstantiated statements.  They talk about goddesses of the paeleolithic era, a period of which there is nothing known about religious practices or beliefs, how could there be?  The carved images of women found may be goddesses, or they may not.  We don't know.  That doesn't stop these nutty women laying down the law on the subject though.  All the authors of these batty feminist sprituality books should be made to write out the following a hundred times &quot;WORSHIPPING GODDESSES DOES NOT MEAN A SOCIETY IS MATRIARCHAL&quot; .History is full of partiarcahl goddess-worhsippers, Egyptian, Greek and Roman society were full of goddesses, and they were totally male-domonated societies.  And if Christianity was such a terrible male-domonated religion compared to all those lovely goddess worhsipping religions, how come they got so many women converts?  Alos they are banging on about moon goddesses as per usual, sun goddesses not getting a mention, though there were plenty.  And these women are meant to be psychologists or something, aren't they?  They both seem to me to be in urgent need of psychoanalysis themselves.	2003-10-23
US	31406259	R2YE2KIBO22V57	0140196013	302291051	The Alphabet Versus the Goddess: The Conflict Between Word and Image (Compass)	Books	1	24	47	N	N	Sexist beyond belief	I've read some silly books in my time, but this has to be one of the silliest.  Reading and writing, apparently are masculine activities, and somehow in opposition to feminine intuition etc. What a load of rot. How did a book as daft as this ever get published?  It's a wonder the author doesn't recommend that wsomen shouldn't learn to read and write at all.  How does the author explain the fact that women's status invariably rises in cultures where they do become literate.  And how does he know reading and writing were masculine inventions anyway?  This book really is pernicious.  If you are gullible enough to believe all that stuff about women being intuitive, men being logical etc (i.e. women can only feel, not think) you will probably like this book.	2003-10-05
US	31406259	R2UMRG416KFX3O	0553578391	77861027	Jane and the Genius of the Place: Being the Fourth Jane Austen Mystery (Being A Jane Austen Mystery)	Books	1	2	8	N	N	Not like Jane Austen	Many people seem to enjoy this series very much, but I  find this book and the others as mysteries feeble, and as historical fiction unconvincing.  The plots are improbable, and characters cardboard. Most annoyingly, Miss Barron has distorted the characters of jane Austen' family until they are unrecognisable, most unkindly of all, she portrays Jane's mother as a raving imbecile.  miss Barron is lucky not to be haunted by Mrs. Austen's indignant ghost.  If Jane Austen had written mysteries, they would have been a lot better than these.  In fact, most mysteries are better than these.	2003-10-03
