US	31446969	RKVMVHCZP57M4	0743268865	117927094	Damaged Goods: A Novel	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Is Anyone Ever Really Free	Due to a botched bank robbery, the notorious Alonzo Crane finds himself doing twenty-five years in federal prison.  Dubbed the \\"The Motion Picture Bank Robber,\\" has earned Crane not only props, but also the recognition of some of the deadliest cliques known within the prison system. <br />Ten years into his sentence, in league with the prison gangs the warden summons Crane to his office where he is then propositioned by every attending gang member to retrieve a mysterious and heavily guarded streamer trunk.  If Crane is able to pull off his assignment it means his freedom, if not it could mean his death. <br />With his life on the line, Crane devises a ploy to enlist the aid of his ruthless former partners in crime, who no longer feel any particular alliance to him.  To pique their interest and regain their loyalty, Crane assures them that the heist he is planning will yield millions.  Does Crane himself have his doubts that he can see himself out of this tight spot?  You are inclined to believe so when one of the first things he purchases is a cemetery plot complete with coffin.  Crane is definitely playing a game of Russian roulette, but is he destined to lose? <br />Not that I was not interested in the characters themselves and curious to find out how their story would end, more often than not, I found myself distracted, marveling at Mr. Jefferson's skillful use of words.  There is a power in his style that I do not often see.  His prose is not melodic, but still the same, the words have been carefully chosen to compliment one another.  Urban literature would not be my first choice when curling up with a book, but I so enjoyed Mr. Jefferson's style that I intend to read his other works. <br /> <br />	2005-08-09
US	31446969	R1QW6SB8XW2V3W	1893196178	533411080	Lovin' You Is Wrong	Books	3	3	3	N	N	When Is It Ever Right	Is what you might ponder after reading this story, of one who has loved and lost.  I am sure a great many of us have read or seen a story depicting the turning of tables when a womanizing cad gets his.  In case you have not; it is interesting to read about in this story and is an experience that just may fill our heroine, Holiday Simmons, with nothing more than dismay and regret.  Holiday is a hardworking single parent determined to make a success of her life.  Since the end of a tumultuous relationship between herself and daughter Crystal's father, there had been little romance in Holiday's life.  Not exactly looking for it and finding it in arms of the least likely person, Roman Broxton, her life will change and so will the way she perceives herself. <br /> <br />Initially minute details slowed this read down and it became a dreaded chore.  The fact that it was literally coming unglued as I turned pages did not help the situation any.-I'm sure this was an isolated incident and not every copy is this way.-However as the story progressed the pacing did somewhat pickup, making the experience more entertaining.  What the reader is sure to notice is the growing intensity as things progressed between Holiday and Roman.  For the drama fiends, this story just may satisfy your appetite. <br />	2005-07-31
US	31446969	R107OH5ECM2OXJ	1593090242	557152514	What Goes Around Comes Around	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Does Love Conquer All	Ms. Lee is an imaginative, creative writer, whom displays her talents well in, \\"What Goes Around, Comes Around.\\"  The story moves at a decent pace, keeping the reader engaged in the world of Arnelle Laphie, a successful sports physician.  Despite success, Arnelle carries the burden of a heinous secret, perpetrated against her love interest, Winston Carter, III.  Several years prior to their chance meeting in Philadelphia, where Arnelle took up residence, she reluctantly became part of a scheme that would victimize Winston.  When Winston learns of the deception-to say the least-will his growing love for her all but vaporize? <br />    Although interesting, the editing in general felt rushed.  Issues such as the scenario of Winston, a private sector attorney practicing law in Philadelphia, somehow is prosecuting a criminal case in California detracts from this story's credibility.  Nothing I read in fiction has to be true to life, just convince me that it is possible.  Several things like, what caused a three-year lapse in the continuation of the trial kept my mind wondering as well.  Other than the occasional awkward phrasing and end of sentence preposition, I could have enjoyed the read immensely, because Ms. Lee does well in making emotion felt, like when the adults interact with the children...that's when Winston's charm jumps off the page. <br /> <br />Marian E. <br />APOOO BookClub <br />	2005-06-18
US	31446969	R1WJ5RON49GQFY	0595233775	52955868	A Deeper Love	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Love at its Greatest	Angela (a.k.a Angel) Reynolds is on the rebound when as fate would have it she meets Paula Travis.  Paula also is recovering from a broken heart and despite their strong attraction towards one another; she proceeds with the utmost of caution.  Being leery of love is not Paula's only hang up, her family has yet to learn of her sexual orientation.  Paula's inability to admit to the world around her who she is, does bother the openly gay Angel, but in the name of love, she is willing to make this compromise.  At this juncture, Ms. Brown raises the question, exactly what sacrifices and compromises are any of us willing to make for the sake of love?  Where should one draw the line? <br />Finding herself alone during the holiday season, Angel soon discovers where she'll draw the line as she wades through her own feelings of abandonment.  All she ever wanted was to love and be loved in return.  In her solitude, introspection stirs a new and more confident Angel.  By looking into herself, she finds what can only come from within, \\"A Deeper Love.\\" <br />Although the story has an air of sadness about it, somewhere around page 100 I began to take delight in it, in the way that I would at the first signs of spring, following a long and harsh winter.  Ms. Brown's writing style shows strength and in her bio she proclaims to be a voice representing the Gay community.  In general, she is a welcomed voice and shows great promise.  While not quite lyrical she has a talent for good lines like, \\"My heart and face ached, and somewhere deep within my misery, I heard the pitter patter of rain outside my window.\\"  The aspect of creating a real sense of sexual tension between Angel and Paula was well done and could be felt right to the core.  I anticipate Ms. Brown's following will continue to grow as her readers eagerly await her next release and I wish her much success. <br /> <br />Marian E. <br />APOOO BookClub <br />	2005-05-19
US	31446969	RY56J17NOL5XR	1593090307	335772754	Undercover	Books	3	4	4	N	N	What You Don't Know Won't Hurt You?	This story centers on Chris, the lesbian mother of two and her sister, Iysha who unbeknownst to her has chosen a drag queen as her life long mate.  For years, Nathaniel successfully manages to hide his true nature from his wife.  Chris on the other hand is quite open about her true self and manages to become involved with a woman deeply committed to a man.  Will one or both sisters become a victim of uncertain heartbreak?<br /><br />Ms. Brown tells a story in a way that is certain to hold the attention of the most critical reader.  Initially I felt far too many characters were introduced and wondered where it all was leading.  About twenty or so pages deep, things began to mesh and I discovered that I had kept track of everyone after all.<br /><br />I did feel Ms. Brown summarized too many things that I would have enjoyed reading about such as little Max's reunion with his lost puppy.  She stated, \\"It was a heart-wrenching scene.  Well there was no scene to envision, so I really cannot say if it was touching or not.  Yet Max was also doomed but I could not connect with his character because she told how adorable he was and how his Auntie Chris adored him.  I would have preferred scenes in this area too.  Nevertheless, I see Ms. Brown's next novel on my reading list.<br /><br />Marian E.<br /><br />APOOO BookClub	2005-03-20
US	31446969	R22CQABIX4Q07F	0743487834	817039280	Never Go Home Again: A Novel	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Little Boy Lost,	The story opens with Cory Dixon's count down to his release date.  As Cory goes through old photographs reminiscing as to what once was, Mr. Holmes takes this opportunity to recount the circumstances, which led to Corey's incarceration. <br /> <br />Unlike other youth who may find themselves in similar situations, Cory was the product of a loving two-parent household.  As Cory gives into the lure of the street, his parents are left to helplessly standby watching their youngest son's transformation into a hardened street thug.  Upon his release, will Cory resist the alluring pull of the city streets, finding his way home again or will he succumb and perhaps meet a fate even worse than what he initially suffered? <br /> <br />There is an authentic feel of the streets in this story, the language, lifestyle, and attitude are true to life.  Real or imagined, sad is always the case when we lose our youth to the life, but to a story like Cory's we can always attach a real name and face.  The story is told in third person and what served as an irritant for this reader was the constant author intrusion.  I cannot appreciate hints or just outright being told as to what will happen next, like, when Corey, infuriated, sets out in search of Kelly, a crackhead, who failed to heed his warning.  \\"He was about to do something he'd live to regret.\\"  He built the tension in the scene and anticipation up, only to deflate it, making reading about it less interesting. <br /> <br />Mr. Holmes also wrote, \\"He didn't know that he was wanted for direct sale of a controlled dangerous substance.  This was the first year of the `Narcotics Task Force' and Drug dealers in New York City were in for a rude awakening.\\"  When the police arrived on the scene, I already knew that they were gunning for Corey.  Statements such as this are best served as back story and go way overboard as foreshadowing because one can surmise exactly what the character is next confronted with, which makes reading the upcoming scene a total disappointment.  There is a fine line between foreshadowing and intrusion. <br /> <br />Marian E. <br />APOOO BookClub <br />	2005-03-20
US	31446969	R3NL055VNC6SU9	1593090331	716590539	All That Drama	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Food for thought	All That Drama, <br />Tina McKinney <br /> <br />APOOO: 4.5 <br /> <br />Marie Morgan and Sammie Alexander are two very different women living in different parts of the country, but find each other in Atlanta, Georgia.  Marie is confident and steps forward reassured, while Sammie is in constant doubt.  Without hesitation, Marie walked out on a lackluster marriage, while Sammie clings to an abusive drug addicted husband who couldn't respect her if he was paid by the hour to do it.  So what could these two possibly have in common?  Their need to be loved unites them in kinship and lessens their struggle as they both trudge forward in pursuit of happiness.  Although, their set of circumstances are totally different in the end they both sought the same thing.  In this one thing after another, drama with capital `D' story, will these ladies break from the dismal shell they call life and find true happiness? <br /> <br />Tina McKinney has penned a winning tale of woe.  Early on in this story I was left hanging with a single line... \\"If I had thought that our meeting at Five Points would have changed the course of both of our lives, I don't believe that I would have bothered to show up.\\"  Following this statement, she takes us first into the past of Sammie then Marie, shaping their personalities, making them characters that we can sympathize with and perhaps some can connect with on some level.  Smoothly the story transitions to present day while the question, \\"What could be so devastating\\" still hangs in the air.  Dealing with true to life situations, `All That Drama,' begs a few questions and I would love to sit in on a book discussion regarding this story.  Ms. McKinney is a talented writer with an airy upbeat style that I like to see in tales with happy endings. <br /> <br />Marian E. <br />APOOO BookClub <br />	2005-02-21
US	31446969	R1L9IX6OAM8F6S	0974363669	851255187	Sins of the Father	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Sins of the father come full circle	Sins of the Father, <br />Felicia Madlock <br /> <br /> <br />APOOO: 4.0 <br /> <br />What can be said of a man that fathers four sons and abandoned three while doting on the fourth.  If left up to the three sons who suffered his neglect, not much at all. <br /> <br />The story opens with Malik and Terrance reluctantly standing with their grieving mother at the funeral of their biological father whom for all of their lives left them without emotional support.  Not even the fact that his third son, Bernard, was about to go pro could dislodge him from the rock his sons felt he lived beneath.  His abandonment was too much to grow beyond, leaving his two eldest sons all too happy to close this chapter of their lives as they watch on bitterly during their father's interment.  Believing they had left that part of their lives at the cemetery, they return to their lives only later to realize that their tranquility would soon be intruded upon by the fourth son who was the receiver of all their father's love and adoration.  Can they see beyond their own bitterness to accept the circumstances that their younger brother, orphaned is in need of their help? <br /> <br />True to Urban Books, this story possesses drama throughout; the subplots are interesting and carry the story well.  But also true to novels in this category; its purpose is solely to entertain, lacking in profoundness and depth which I find important in any read.  However, Felicia Madlock writes with the authority of a born storyteller, possessing a warm and lyrical style.  Anyone picking up her work will do so without any regrets. <br /> <br />Marian E. <br />APOOO BookClub <br />	2005-02-21
US	31446969	R342MRIE3BT54S	052594706X	479547070	Loving Donovan	Books	3	1	1	N	N	The Heartbreak of Loving Donovan	As always, the talented, Ms. Mcfadden has penned a compelling read.  She leads us through the interesting lives of the characters, what makes them tick, their heartbreaks, and what was cause for damage.  We gain a great sense of who they are, but in the end I was disappointed that she did not take the story in a different direction.  A direction that I realized there was opportunity for.  Both characters had an opportunity to find solace in one another, but Ms. Mcfadden stayed true to form.  This is a story that I feel could have had a happier ending without being forced in that directions.	2004-12-19
US	31446969	R23DSZI4DJMURA	1593090021	440809300	Love and Justice: A Novel	Books	3	1	2	N	N	A Means to An End	Jason Jarred is a highly self-confident agent of law enforcement and long ago apparently tossed protocol to the side.  Playing by his own set rules, he throws caution to the wind, and devises methods as he goes along.  Time and time again, when the smoke clears, he has managed to land on his feet.  His last directive was to take down the maniacal serial killer/rapist that terrorizes Virginia City and by any means necessary; he intends to do just that. The entire city watches, waiting for the moment that all can breathe a littler easier. As if the pressure of apprehending the elusive, `Invisible Man,' is not enough, with pleas of reconciliation former wife Julie makes unwanted yet frequent appearances, she is determined to regain his love and trust, come what may.  Then there is the pressure of demands made by newfound love interest Sasha Fong, thrown into mix.  Can Detective Jarred maintain his focus while trying to balance his personal life or in the end, will a slip-up cost him everything? <br /> <br />Written in third person omniscient, I found Love and Justice to be a lumbering read.  Early on one's interest is piqued when we find ourselves in the world of the twisted criminal as he meticulously stalks his victims.  In the midst of all the mayhem and with what initially seems to be little reason, we are taken on a leisurely stroll through the blossoming romance of Jason and Sasha.  Author, Rique Johnson provides great detail into the romance which weighs the story down and I failed to appreciate the value of it.  My curiosity and questions centered around the villain and what I will dare to refer to as the primary dilemma in this story.  I also felt that there wasn't enough invested into the development of this one particular plot but the story overall went a little beyond its natural stopping point.  I still question whether this is a suspense with romance or a romance with suspense?  Perhaps it is outside of the box, merely a snapshot into the life of Jason Jarred, and brings something fresh to the literary world.	2004-12-19
US	31446969	RFBVN18L7VYNN	0971488711	94025046	One Life No Sequel: Tomorrows Not Promised	Books	3	0	0	N	N	You Only Get One Chance	And main character Kevin Gray is rethinking how and what he is doing in life.  As a street hustler; pushing the poison that kills hopes, dreams, and the future, Kevin begins to doubt himself and strikes out with his family in tow, seeking the guidance of the church only to be greeted by hostility with the good reverend John Johnson leading the pack.  Seeking retribution and contrary to his desire of redemption, Kevin plots revenge and the drama unfolds. <br /> <br />Like wild animals, these characters are quick to turn on one another, which kept me reading to learn if even one of them possessed a single redeeming quality.  Due to format, at times it was difficult to discern who was speaking.  True to street lit this read delivers unwavering drama on each page and is told in third person with the narrator being as street savvy as Kevin and the rest of the characters.  What I found most refreshing is that Gainer stepped outside of the cookie cutter mold of commercial fiction and was free to do it his way.  I also sensed that this author masked his true artistic ability to write in this simplistic style of street lit.  I am curious to see his approach in other genres. <br /> <br />If urban drama is what you crave then fasten your seatbelt. This is  <br />a true rollercoaster ride! <br /> <br />Marian E. <br />APOOO BookClub <br />	2004-12-02
US	31446969	R13L3OIIS9A5WC	1591460255	71480009	Browne Candidate	Books	3	1	2	N	N	A Would Be Tomorrow	Imagine a world where most women have been left barren by alleged transgressions of previous generations.  One can imagine that the few fertile women are exalted as goddesses.  In the world of Aurora; Candidate Browne, this is not case.  Early in life, some of those capable of conception are sold by poverty-stricken parents into a life of slavery and forced to do the bidding of the United World Council, who through propaganda have glorified what is referred to as the Candidacy Program.  Would be parents are paired with a Candidate who moves into their home to perform the ritual of coupling until conception occurs. <br /> <br />Candidate Browne often recalls the day she was sold into Candidacy and whirled away by a cyborg, kicking and screaming in protest.  This would describe Browne's life and stay at the Garden.  Despite many attempts to beat her into submission, relentlessly, she dared to dream of freedom.  With a tracking device implanted behind her ear set to explode should she stray too far, she may never possess an opportunity to taste what freedom could be. <br /> <br />That is until the Willaimses and yes, freedom may still be a heartbeat away as she learns; when she is selected by them and taken into their home.  Browne meets their young, handsome butler and all around handyman-in more ways than one, Bain.  Shortly both are romanticizing the other; Bain vows to take Browne away and she hangs on his every word.  The world in which they live is a dangerous one, as there are those who fight the order of the World Council and the area is heavily patrolled.  Whether Bain can make good on his promise is the question. <br /> <br />Written in third person omniscient, Browne Candidate is a quick and interesting read.  I enjoyed Ms. Kurtz's style and literary tone immensely; however, I would have appreciated the read more if I had found it more imaginative.  The exact year was not stated, but it is a world of cyborgs and cities built high above a polluted and diseased earth.  With the advances in technology in our own time, I would think the future holds computers capable of voice recognition and scanning devices as a means of identification, but yet the soldiers of the Resistance input key codes into what feels like outdated security systems and consume the flesh animals.  The synthesizing of soy to imitate flavors of foods we find familiar would have been perfected by then.  Like everything else names also evolve and characters such as Angel, Martin, Aurora, and Terry are names I see long forgotten. <br /> <br />Ms. Kurtz did well with imagery, but it sometimes seemed vague by way of setting.  I found following the travels of our antiheroes difficult, unable to discern if they were in the city of New England Tre or traveling below, on earth.  How they traveled between the two, especially when some parts of earth's atmosphere was poisonous is a mystery.  I would liked to have been told more about the city's construction, hundreds of miles above the earth as well as the gravity of the threat the United World Council actually posed to the people.  I did enjoy the read however, I found it begged more questions then it answered and the fact there are no pages numbers served as a minor irritant. <br /> <br />Marian E. <br />APOOO BookClub <br /> <br />	2004-12-02
US	31446969	R3AD44W3A1YT7I	0452282918	657856375	The Warmest December	Books	5	0	0	N	N	You Never Know Where and When You'll Find Yourself	With a lyrical persuasiveness I was pulled into the world of Kenzie Lowe where I remained until the very last page was turned and like Sugar and This Bitter Earth, this story reverberates through my mind still with a harrowing echo.<br />It's not everyday that one runs across a novel composed with such imagery and depth.  The tone Ms. McFadden sets in this title is inexplicable, deep and dark her writing style is potent, yet delicate.  I commend her for tackling such demons as alcoholisms, abuse, prostitution, etc., and it is evident that a great deal of effort went into this prose which makes me appreciate it all the more.  This is an extremely worth while read.	2004-06-23
US	31446969	RB2R0N9NM1AJ8	0767913981	594225595	On the Down Low: A Journey into the Lives of 'Straight' Black Men Who Sleep with Men	Books	3	5	9	N	N	A Cheat is Still a Cheat	\\"I think that abusing people who give you their bodies, minds, and souls by not being honest and true is a sin.\\"  I couldn't agree with J.L. King more.  On the DownLow, is about more than, `A Journey into the lives of straight Black Men who sleep With Men.'  At the heart of J.L.'s story there is insight into the minds of those who fail to offer their partners a choice in accepting their lifestyles.<br />There are those willing to compromise their morality for the sake of maintaining a relationship.  If we have any interest in upholding traditional values, slowing the spread of HIV, STD's, arresting the moral degradation, etc., in our culture then we must take responsibility for our own actions and this is the message J.L. King conveys in his fact-filled snapshot of men who sleep with men.<br />Yes, anyone checking the facts as I've done will soon learn that African American women and Blacks in general contract the deadly disease faster than any other race, but the issue is greater than D.L. men.  Are we willing to pay with our lives to be lax when it comes to our lovers?  J.L. King urges that we take a stance, because just maybe the price we will pay will be our very lives.  Taking charge of our physical and mental wellbeing may mean ousting our lovers...are we up to the task?<br />Anyone seeking useful information of facts on AIDS, or the D.L. Brotha mentality, should read this book that boils down to Health and Wellness and I've categorized it as such.	2004-06-17
US	31446969	RTGH09NNX8BKX	0525947965	681829330	Camilla's Roses	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Never Forget Where You Come From	Because as time moves, you may find yourself standing on the doorstep of long forgotten memories, as was the case with Camilla Rose Brown.  Still nursing the wounds of growing up ghetto and harboring all of its resentment, Camilla escapes, buries her Roses in a grave dug deep and covered in lies.<br />Camilla moves through life, perpetrating, wearing the fa?ade like a second skin and as life would have it, tragedy strikes causing a dejected Camilla to retreat into the world she'd forgotten, but it was where she once found love, unconditional and profound.  Can she still find the love for her there with so much loathing and time gone by?  Will Camilla find that the middle name Rose is more than just a name branded every girl child in her family through the generations?  Could it be the strength behind the Rose women whom endured so much strife?<br />I became an immediate fan of Ms. McFadden?s with her debut, ?Sugar? and was thrilled with, ?This Bitter Earth.?  I admire Ms. McFadden?s ability to weave a tale using less than one hundred thousand words.   I didn?t find Camilla?s Roses as compelling as ?Sugar,? and its sequel but Ms. McFadden did breathe life into these larger than life characters with the same style and grace as with all other characters she?s penned.  Nevertheless Ms. McFadden has another page turner with her lyrical and reflective prose in Camilla?s Roses and we lay witness as these bold characters face heart wrenching challenges, such as addiction, abandonment and self-hatred.  I anxiously await her next release, ?The Salt Box.?	2004-06-15
US	31446969	R3RFP2QL9CNVGO	0971843619	849207685	Sacrifice the One	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Resentment plus Rejection equals A Broken Spirit	While growing up, longing for her father's love and acceptance, Seta attempts to fill the void that the lack of a father's love has carved deep within her soul and sometimes her need for acceptance led to woe and more rejection.  Can Seta overcome all the hurt and rejection or will she become swept up in turmoil and devastation?<br />Tastefully crafted, Sacrifice the One is a heartfelt tale that starts out strong and holds a steady pace throughout.  The central theme is that of rejection and dreams unfulfilled, which does provoke one to ponder how we will handle our next disappointment.<br />Overall, this story does hold great appeal, however I did question, father, Robert Armstrong when he turned his resentment towards his helpless infant daughter and justifies it no less.  Both Robert and Seta experience a change of heart in their deep rooted feelings towards one another, but Ms. Carter falls short by providing a cursory glance into these reconsiderations without making us privy to the actual revelation in depth.<br />Sacrifice the One begs the question, what can be said for a deadbeat parent?<br />My rating of this book is more three and half, due to issues within the book I feel the author should have expounded on, but didn't.	2004-06-11
US	31446969	R147JJO5I38LBM	1418405582	965523456	The Next Time You Talk To Yourself, Listen: Beyond Victory	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A Hand Up For the Weary	The Next Time You Talk to Yourself...Listen, is an effective health and wellness set of exercises designed to enhance once self-awareness.  Author, Esther Ann Goldberg, M.A., LMHC, is successful in condensing a wealth of information in an informative, cut to the chase fashion, where the dialogue is real and the reader doesn't become bogged down or confused by a great deal of technical jargon.<br />The Next Time You Talk to Yourself...Listen, is ideal for those needing a confidence booster.  And for the more grounded individual, consider it maintenance for the psyche.  It invokes a great deal of thought as to who you are and where you want to be.  <br />I found myself wanting to highlight passages for daily reference and an immediate need to recommend the book to others.  Esther Ann Goldberg, M.A., LMHC, also makes references that we all can relate to and uses real world examples in explaining the exercises.<br />For those on the go, this is the ideal self-help text, due to it being a light pack-and-go read, containing exercises that can be worked later when you're in your quiet place.<br />What I felt as a hindrance is the chapters do not end with a place for personal reflection, the content of each chapter is profound causing much thought and it would be conducive to have a section there in the book to scrawl the impact of the chapter on ones stance.	2004-06-03
US	31446969	R154TOHRBRSFN4	0758200137	356224225	Baby Momma Drama	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Like never before	This is definitely a drama filled novel. Carl does deliver well in this area with realistic tales of everyday characters one might encounter or even exhibit similar behavior patterns in everyday life. The women in the novel are strong characters that I find myself referring to as the protagnist, because both Stephanie and Jasmine were coming from selfish places when it came to dealing with the men in their lives and other aspects as well. Much has been said about this novel and it has received raving reviews.  Carl has done well to entertain, but this read lacks the simulation I desire in read, there is no profoud lesson that stands out.  Although Stephanie did some soul searching it was brushed over and underdeveloped.  I also found the story ran longer than was necessary to get the story across.	2004-05-30
US	31446969	R31IKQS5RYIMLZ	0452283817	673219676	This Bitter Earth	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Winner	With her debut, Sugar, Ms. McFadden quickly became one of my favorite novelist and this sequel has only reinforced her standing.  Ms. McFadden's writing style is rich, lyrical, and powerful, keeping you turning pages filled with characters that continue to haunt long after the last riveting page has been turned.	2004-05-30
US	31446969	R1FL7QHGVJIU0	0452282209	418423294	Sugar: A Novel	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Powerful Read	Ms. McFadden's writing style is rich, lyrical, and powerful, keeping you turning pages filled with characters that continue to haunt long after the last riveting page has been turned.  She has skillfully woven a tale where the reader will be compelled to care for the characters.  These are characters you feel you know and love.  Ms. McFadden has done an excellant job in invoking compassion from her readers.  I look forward to her next novel.	2004-05-30
US	31446969	R3NV6H3DTHIIRB	159309017X	926561348	Six Days in January	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The Heart of Men	Who says that it is always the woman left holding jagged pieces of what was once her heart when a relationship goes bad, certainly not William F. Cooper who flips the script in, Six Days in January, exposing the underside of the steely exterior to reveal the heart of men, for all to make of it what you will.<br />McCall had been a kind, considerate, sensitive, caring, loving, walking and talking dream come true, ready to give his all, until as undeserving as she was, he hooks up with Andrea.  During the midst of their courtship, Andrea confesses that she is committed to current boyfriend, Derrick and is unable to give herself completely.  This would be the first of countless, desensitizing blows that McCall would be all too willing to endure during the course of their relationship.<br />Insanely, McCall kept hanging on; believing that one day Andrea would be all his or he would die with his boots on.  Everyone he encountered attempted to convince him that the relationship was doomed.  William turned a death ear to all naysayers.  Because shaking sense into William McCall was not an option, tearfully, I read on, only to find he had taken yet another dagger to the heart.  Callously McCall moves through life, wanting to show the world that he can be a strong Black man and in the process leaves the women in his future taken for granted.  When would he come to his senses?<br />William McCall, who wasn't one to cry in the dark, says it best, &quot;Our sisters network and communicate their hurts.  We're not supposed to have vulnerabilities, especially as Black men, though we struggle in denial of emotional sensitivity everyday.&quot;  I say, at ease men, its okay to feel, to be real, to be human.<br />William Cooper has written this tale with such depth that we are taken through a gamut of emotion, all the while cheering for William but unable to hate Andrea due to his love for her.  Although I feel this to be a dynamic read and as unimportant to the story as it was, I would have liked to learn more about his failed marriage to Angela and seen her as a multidimensional character.<br />Nevertheless, my heart went out to William as I found myself turning page after heartbreaking page needing to know if those long ago memories and the pain of being a jilted lover could be tucked away, enabling him to give of himself again?	2004-05-29
US	31446969	REWHH1GB21ITC	0671037137	766629615	Sisterfriends: Portraits of Sisterly Love	Books	5	2	2	N	N	What Makes a Solid Relationship	SisterFriends is a compilation of interviews with African American women regarding the various contributing factors in their relationship with their sisters.  SisterFriends answers the question, \\"What makes a solid relationship\\".<br />I have never met any of the women profiled in SisterFriends, but Julia Chance not only made me feel as if we had been introduced, but the interviews are so up close and personal that I feel as if a bond had been forged between the interviewees and myself.<br />Some of the women are well known like, Mary J. Blige and Iyanla Vazant; others are not as well known, but all of the women have imitated some extremely personal detail of their lives and I applaud them for having the courage to be as open and as honest as they were because not every story is a pretty one.<br />Some of these very different stories are rather dark, but these women have made it through trying times, such as, the Shabazz sisters.  Their mother grew up in a dysfunctional environment and was sexually abused as a child, which ultimately spilled over into the lives of her seven offspring, all of whom have different fathers.  Having each other made life in general easier to deal with and because of each other, they have fulfilled dreams and aspirations.  Like the Shabazz sisters, most of the women in SisterFriends have overcome great difficulties.  What kept them strong during their personal struggle?  Was it solely their relationship with their \\"Sisterfriend\\"?<br />At times, we all need someone to lean on and it appears that these women have uncovered the secret to a great relationship with one's same-sex sibling.  Sisterhood is a unique type of relationship and each of these women in my opinion has definitely realized what makes for a productive relationship.  They have learned to compliment, support, and draw from the strength of one another.<br />There are a few sisters interviewed who are not blood relatives, but the closeness of their relationship makes them as close as all sisters should be.  The author, Julia Chance, has captured the essences of what a relationship should be.  The reader can do nothing but benefit from all that the essays in SisterFriends reveal.  The stories also point out life's lessons and are inspirational to say the least, this is why I consider this book to be a must read for us all.	2004-05-27
US	31446969	R42XQ1TSF5P6C	0767905784	808023523	The African American Guide to Writing & Publishing Non Fiction	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Guide Apart	Being a writer myself, I must confess that I have attended various writing workshops, read many books on the subject, own my fair share, and instruct a workshop on creative writing.  So when I received The African American guide to Writing and Publishing Non-fiction I sighed.  &quot;Not another how to book.&quot;<br />I was pleasantly surprised that Jewell Parker Rhodes put a tremendous amount of effort into setting this guide apart from all others.  I found reason why an author would want to add this book to a probable growing collection.  I am very impressed with the extent of research.  She uses excerpts as examples from the works of various African American Authors throughout history, which in itself is enlightening.  She also has included an extensive list of resources for the African American author which is an asset because such a list would not be found in the resource section of every book on this subject.<br />Her tone, throughout the book, gently guides the reader through the complexity of writing.  The reader is propelled into self examination on a deeper level.  After reading this book you may very well gain a new perspective and view the world around you a little differently.  The personal advice she adds at the end of the chapters compliments her tone and drives her point home.  She has even gone as far as to add advice from other successful writers.  There is a great deal to be gained fro this guide into writing and I urge everyone who has even so much as considered writing whether it be fiction or non-fiction to purchase this book.	2004-05-26
US	31446969	R46166E2V2AMG	0142196207	500147866	Journey to the Well: 12 Lessons on Personal Transformation (Compass)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A Journey of Self Preservation	I've always been receptive to new ideas, in fact I keep my eyes and ears open for opportunities to grow and in, Journey To The Well, Bishop Vashti M. McKenzie has nourished me.  There are twelve lessons and at the end of each are exercises designed to enhance, enrich, and ready us.<br />Through Bishop Vashti M. McKenzie's teachings we learn not to discount our selves, how to add value to our lives, and emerge from behind veils of anonymity.  In her own words she states, \\"That until a healthy, loving relationship that promotes your full potential happens, resist the urge to become a perpetual lady in waiting, never living fully and never feeling complete or whole.  Live your life to the fullest - now and always.\\"  Her message is, \\"When we live to the fullest we are innovative and not merely duplicating.\\"<br />Just as Jesus reached out to the masses, so is she.  She speaks in terms that we all can understand and relate to.  Her modern day parables are compelling and make excellent analogies.	2004-05-25
US	31446969	RGUWQ5R6D5YI3	1575669102	297854080	The Upper Room	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A Prison Called the Upper Room	Originally published in 1985, the Upper Room won critical acclaim as a remarkable work of art.  The story unfolds in a fictitious small town located in the everglades of southern Florida.<br />One evening Ruby delivers the daughter of her best friend Orthella.  Both women believe the child to be still born.  Ruby later learns that the beautiful baby girl is alive and decides that the infant should be hers.  Ruby stills away in the middle of the night with the child, which by now is the namesake for an aging madam from Ruby's past, and Virgil, her preteen son.  They settle in Goons, which is another small swampy community and is located just outside of Miami.  Perhaps Ruby's love for small out of the way places has a great deal to do with access to places where the bodies that are mounting up will never be discovered.<br />Ruby comes across a house with a single bedroom on the second floor, she dubs it \\"The Upper Room.\\"  Unless Maureen finds the courage to break free of Ruby's hold, she is destined to spend her life confined to this most holiest of places.  Ruby also gains the respect and admiration of the residence of Goons.  Like everyone else they fear her, but at the same time are in awe of her.  <br />The Upper Room is an intriguing read.  The characters have been colorfully created and there is never a dull moment.  I commend Mary Monroe on her creativity and the ability to bring a story such as this to life.  Each time I opened the book I felt as if I was nosey neighbor, spying for the purpose of gossip.  This was her debut novel and due to high demand has been brought back.  I invite you to take a look and find out for yourself what all the hype is about.	2004-05-25
US	31446969	R2ZGULBPGE1QW5	1414076207	768134909	Crisis Mode	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Overwhelming Are the Choices We are Forced to Make	This work of fiction is appropriately entitled, Crisis Mode, the backdrop is the Chicago area for each of the four short stories that are equal in gravity.<br />Michelle opens with, `What's a Woman to Do?'  Character Sharita Atkins has a major decision to make when she discovers, out of wedlock, she's pregnant for the third time.  Fortunately, the father, Antone also fathered her three existing children, but he has always managed to fall short when it comes to commitment.  Theirs is a rocky relationship and standing on shaky ground Sharita is uncertain as to what do.  To add to her dilemma, she is about to embark on a new career as a nurse and realize her dream of moving her children out of the projects.<br />Sharita informs Antone of her intent to terminate the pregnancy.  The pressure is on, will Antone step up to plate and do what's right by Sharita and the children or leave her high and dry as he's done many times in the past?<br />This is an emotionally intense read and with my stomach in knots, I found myself rooting for Sharita and wanting the best for the family.  Michelle captured the essence of what drama is all about and I enjoyed her slightly lyrical writing style, which reminded me a little of my own.<br />In `Family Secrets,' Jeanine Meyers is on the brink of insanity when an act of domestic violence perpetrated by husband, James, leaves their young son Jamal comatose.  Jeanine has never been the strongest of people and the greatest challenge for the family is keeping Jeanine alive and there for Jamal, if and when he should ever recover from his injuries.  Jeanine is certainly damaged goods and the question is can she bear to face another day.<br />`Letting Go,' is what Desiree Cooper needs to do when it comes to unresolved issues with her mother Mia.  Desiree has frowned upon her mother for her inability to engage in a stable relationship and can't come to terms with Mia's choice in husbands for the fourth time!  Even though estranged by choice, Desiree is compelled to go to Mia when she discovers a woman's telephone number and an open package of condoms in fiancé, Andre Jackson's tuxedo pocket.<br />Can Mia, a woman that Desiree can't find it within herself to love unconditionally and respect help her make the right decision, when it comes to her impending marriage to Andre?<br />A `Family Meeting,' is what it took to bring Marsha Douglas and her sister Marty together but not truly enough to unite them.  When mother Anna Mae Smith suffers a stroke and makes it known, that she is not to be kept alive by artificial means, will this drive the pair farther apart, when Marsha can't accept their mother's decision, and Marty can?<br />Overall I feel this is well-crafted novel with a story that all can enjoy.  Michelle is a promising writer and possesses the ability to invoke sentiment in the reader, regardless of which stance you take with one of her lifelike characters, the emotion there and real.	2004-05-13
US	31446969	R1FSMEP7FFS9WF	1414058470	323825650	Twisted	Books	3	0	0	N	N	The Grass isn't Always Greener...	Twisted is a whirlwind ride through the dark side of human nature and much like the house in the Wizard of Oz, we are dropped smack dab in the middle of Taylor and Jason Thomas' marital tension.<br />Thugged out but warmhearted, Jason Thomas has built an empire consisting of a bona fide business and one of shady dealings, both have afforded him the opportunity to amass great wealth.  Although wealth is great, his true focus and dedication is that of the welfare of his family and friends.<br />It's much too bad that his wife, doesn't recognize this and Jason has anything but her dedication, as he soon discovers when a plot to bring about his untimely demise is uncovered.  Jason withholds his knowledge of the planned attempt against his life.  But the plot does thicken when Jason confronts his wife and good friend David regarding the tawdry affair that they've managed to keep secret right under his nose.<br />The characters in Twisted are bold, brazen, and at times I felt as, a few may have stepped right out of the personals in the Sunday newspaper, while others have allowed their selfish nature to get the best of them only to realize later and with much regret that the grass isn't always greener on the other side.<br />Not only are the main characters twisted in their thinking and actions, but the story also takes a series of unexpected twist.  If there is one thing this story isn't, that is predictable.  Just when you believe you know, what's coming next there's a twist and I found this enjoyable.  I also liked the pace in which the story moves, we forgo the soup and salad and go right for the meat and potatoes in this tale.  Like many African American male writers, Brian delves right in getting to the heart of this quick read.<br />Twisted is Brian's debut release and I was presented an opportunity to review the unedited version.  There were typos and grammatical errors that I'm sure will be corrected in the final version of this urban tale.  For an air of realism,profanity and relaxed language is frequently used.  Brian is an imaginative storyteller with a bright future ahead of him.<br />If drama is what you crave, then get ready to wet your appetite with Twisted.	2004-04-23
US	31446969	R1Q3WO3FXN6Y2G	0971819157	744747593	Pick-up Lines	Books	4	1	1	N	N	I am in a selfish state of mind...	is how character Michelle Barkley put it as she rehearsed what to tell her fiancé Greg Colbert instead of coming clean regarding her involvement with main character Leron King.  This story is all about the consequences that may follow when one comes from a selfish place.  Following Leron's reckless one night stand it doesn't take long for life to fall apart for Leron and Michelle, whom both suffer the wrath of the 'woman scorn.'<br />Michelle goes running to her best friend, Tonya, with her troubles which could turn out to be the worst thing she's ever done, while Leron's ego won't allow him to tell a soul, not even his long time friend Femia whom had been his shoulder since childhood.  He even goes home to New Hampshire to attend Femia's graduation and seeing her face to face he still doesn't fess up, but does take notice of how she has filled out!  Tisk, tisk, is there now love in the air for Leron and Femia, maybe we will find out in Mr. Owens' next novel.<br />Michael has taken a lighthearted approach, where his sense of humor peeks through as he spins this fast paced tale of very real disadvantages of being a player.  Written in first person and told from the perspectives of Leron and Michelle, the story unfolds in Atlanta Georgia, but could just as well be anyplace, USA.  Michael's style alone is enough to keep you turning pages, but there is also an element of suspense, which I like that also kept me wondering about the characters.  There are some areas that I felt could have been covered in depth for greater insight, but nevertheless, it is a well structured, light, and entertaining read filled with an assortment of colorful characters that you'll find yourself rooting for.  It's like a romance novel from a male's prospective and I recommend that you read Pick Up Lines for yourselves.	2003-10-12
US	31446969	R1AWKLBQ6GN65E	189163612X	890781497	The Beautiful Ones	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Self Love is Key	Carmen is a strong and independent woman who is on a mission to publish the poetry of her late and long time friend, Spring.  She ultimately sinks every spare dime into the publication of the poetry that she believes in wholeheartedly and the publishing company goes belly up without so much as word and leaves Carmen facing financial ruin.  The financial situation of some of Carmen's friends is such that they could effortlessly see her back on her feet, but will they?  Despite Carmen's personal dilemmas, to help those with less confidence than she, the group, `The Beautiful Ones' is formed, and the message of self-love is loud and clear.<br />There is quite a bit going on in this story and at times due to presentation and style I was confused as to who was speaking and what they were speaking about.  Also greater character development and less issues would go a long way in helping to understand the players, in spite of the short comings the theme, self empowerment is constant throughout the story and you are sure to be left reexamining your own life, situation, friends, and wishing to be a member of `The Beautiful Ones.'	2003-10-12
US	31446969	RPZC1W8MSJHMS	1403377774	318051559	Carrie O and Me: What a Woman God Made	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Inspiration for The Weary	This spiritual tale opens with Linda Smith returning to the city of Jacksonville, Fl to sell the home of the late Carrie Oswell, whom she met under the most unfortunate of circumstances.  Seventeen year old Linda and her younger sister Ann were playing on the street, when Ann wearing skates, rolled into the path of an oncoming vehicle and ultimately did not survive her injuries.  Ann's life wasn't the only thing to be lost that day...her mother was to lose her zeal and Linda was to lose a mother, both of their lives would forever change.  Over the following days, weeks, and months, Linda was then faced with her mother's bitterness, rejection, and worse of all alcoholism!<br />If not for Mack and Carrie Oswell, whom were God fearing people loved by all, life for Linda would have been totally hopeless, but there they were welcoming her with loving arms and eventually Linda ended up in their home enveloped by the love and attention she and every child deserves.  Over the next few years Linda was to develop an endearing relationship with the Oswells and Mrs. Carrie's warm heart and generous nature had such an impact on Linda that it would follow her for the rest of her days.<br />For me, this story told through the eyes of the teenaged Linda, whom I feel could have had a stronger voice, brought back memories of my own high school years, where us `worldly' teens would shield the few church girls from the sins around us to keep them most chaste.  I looked upon these memories fondly.  I am sure at some point every reader will stumble upon an issue that he or she can relate too.  Regardless of some typographically errors, 'Carrie O and Me' is definitely a wholesome story that I would like to see in the hands of every adolescent.  Francine's heartfelt sentiments come to life through the memory of Linda Smith as she reminisces about the years spent in the home and care of Mrs. Carrie.  Delicately yet completely Francine conveys the message of, by following the path that God has laid out, one shall reap untold reward.	2003-10-10
US	31446969	RTUFWL3ZPVBVG	0974156507	353497405	Matters of the Heart	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Love and Lessons	Matters of the Heart? ...Well for Nurse, Katilla Richardson, the only thing that mattered were her personal goals and ambitions, which lead her to weave a web of lies and deceit and ultimately she is its only captivate.<br />Throughout Katilla's career as a Nurse at Heartland Memorial Hospital, she has longed to advance.  Her dream is to become a physician's assistant, but its easier said then done when one must stand before the review board and undergo a rigorous process, where only the strong survive and even then only a few are accepted.  Katilla has a plan that involves, the extremely handsome, but cantankerous Dr. Kenneth Micheals whom has final say, as to who's in and who's out.  Will this plan work or is it just another instance of the hunter being captured by the game?<br />In Matters of the Heart, the narrator's voice reminds me of Southern neighbors trading gossip across the backyard fence.  The story rolls right along at an engaging pace with subplots that are just as interesting as the main storyline with characters larger than life.  I found myself rooting for some, while wishing the worst for others.  Also in some scenes there is a level of nail biting intensity that you would only expect a seasoned writer to accomplish, Sabrina manages to pull it off, right in the very beginning when she calls a code blue that sends the reader spiraling head first into this unique romance.<br />Sabrina has also taken a lighthearted approach that had me laughing aloud on more than one occasion.  To spin this lightly whimsical tale of love and loss, she uses wit, to not only entertain but also enlighten.  Ms. McFee's style is crisp and direct, the genre is sensual romance so be warned.  I commend Ms. McFee's efforts with the exception of what served as a minor deterrent for myself and that is...her usage of adjectives, which seemed a bit cumbersome.  Matters of the Heart, makes for a fine debut novel, I do suggest that you read this one for yourself.<br />`Matters of The Heart', by Sabrina Mcafee' is available wherever books are sold and you can learn more about me, Marian E. and my current titles, at [...] and don't forget to sign the guest book!	2003-09-21
US	31446969	R1VBJ5SISID2QH	1403346062	677430587	Rage Times Fury	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Love Without Limits	How do you reprimand a drug pushing gansta that the law just can't seem to touch?  In Rage Times Fury it appears as if no one ever tried... that is until little M.J. became an innocent victim of a drive-by ordered by the neighborhood drug dealer, 'Drugs'.  At that point it was up to M.J.'s father, Malik Ford, sr. and his boyz to exact a brand of street justice that would turn the dangerous Brooklyn neighborhood of Crown Heights and the life of 'Drugs' upside down.<br />In a raw and gritty style just like the mean city streets, Trustice Gentles captures the essence of inner city living and confines it between the pages of Rage times Fury.  I found that there is room for character development which would have added length and a sense of connecting with each character, but in general it wasn't necessary to keep this fast paced tale moving, it would have aided in understanding why Malik, his friends, and even Soraya the mother of his children were willing to risk life and limb to go about things in the manner in which they did.  Every parent wants a safe haven for their children, but having the ring leader, 'Drugs' tucked safely behind prison walls, did little to pacify Malik.  There were still several others out there and even though it was nearly two years later, Malik's rage failed to dissipate.  Why was he driven with the support of his woman Soraya, when women are generally more level headed?<br />Rage times Fury has an interesting storyline, written in first person, but lacks the depth of emotion in which I've grown to appreciate and feel it would have created a greater sense of tension like when they lay in wait outside of Trip's house, I could imagine the scene was intense, but couldn't feel it.  Malik also enlisted the aid of a former friend and present enemy, 'Bam,' who agrees to assist without hesitation and his reason for aiding Malik was over simplified; he merely stated, &quot;I have a son that I love also and I'll do anything for him.&quot;  For reasons unknown Trustice did not develop an explanation as to why Malik would find this statement unforgettable.  I was left pondering what it was about the comment that would move him to the point where it would have an everlasting affect.<br />Rage times Fury does roll right along when surprisingly it transitions into a series of related events, a twist if you will, which may allow Malik to complete his plan of revenge.  Will Malik finally be able to put this issue behind him and find the peace that we all deserve?<br />Overall the story is not without substance; I enjoyed the read, and encourage you to read it for yourselves, especially anyone who would like a taste of the hard cold 'Hood' from the safety of your own home.	2003-09-21
