US	31630498	R36NJCOW5U3PBZ	0060087358	581282620	This Time Love: A Classic Love Story (Lowell, Elizabeth)	Books	1	7	7	N	N	Very Boring Romance	I was very disappointed with this novel.  The hero Gabe was very immature and self centered.  Basically Gabe Venture is on assignment and meets 20 year old Joyce who is a virgin.  They meet, they fall in love, he has sex with her.  He doesn't wait around to find out if she is pregnant but leaves on his next assignment.  Joyce is pregnant and tries to contact him through his brother who won't give her any forwarding info but $3700 that Gabe left for Joyce.  Gabe finds out Joyce took the $3700 and assumes she had an abortion, and has the nerve to be upset.  How dare she abort his child?  He has abandoned her with the excuse he has to take care of his mother and older brother (two adults perfectly capable of taking care of themselves) and he leaves a 20 year old alone and pregnant.  Seven years pass and Gabe returns to do a second article on Lost River Caving.  He meets Joy and guess what she never had an abortion.  This is pretty much the story line of the entire book, and it doesn't get any deeper than this.  The rest of the story spells out in boring minute detail the aspects of caving which is what the heroine Joy does and which Gabe is writing his story about.  There are pages and pages of information about equipment; how to wash and clean them; what is exactly in their back packs before they go caving; but no other plot development or story line.  This was one of the most boring romance novels I have ever read.  Very disappointing.	2004-09-19
US	31630498	R3IHENMK5H0FNS	0671525832	187406427	Someone to Watch Over Me: A Novel (The Paradise series)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Beautiful Story	I love many types of stories.  In fact, I own hundreds of novels from sci-fi to horror to suspense.  My favorite novel though will always be a good romance.  The only problem is that I have read all of the classics and am finding it harder every time I go to a book store to find a good quality book.  Thank goodness for Ms. McNaught.  I have read all of the historical and regency romances to the point I have become bored with them.  Then I started on contemporary romances, and most of these are just below average.  Only Ms. McNaught can take a contemporary romance with some suspense and turn it into an excellent read.    Leigh is a famous Broadway actress who is married to Logan, a very rich businessman.  Logan is thinking of purchasing some land to build a home for him and Leigh.  He has found the perfect property and asks Leigh to meet him there.  On the way to the property, Leigh is involved in a car accident.  When Leigh wakes up after the accident, she finds herself in the hospital and alone.  She waits for Logan to come see her, but he does not.  When Leigh is finally coherent she realizes Logan has not shown up and is in fact, missing. As the days pass, Leigh waits for her husband Logan to show.  When he does not, the search is on for him.      The story is about all of the discoveries Leigh makes while searching for her husband.  Is he alive or dead?  Could it be a stalker that she thinks is following her?  The police have another take, did Leigh kill her husband?  In this book, people are not what they seem to be.  I don't want to give too much away, but I thoroughly enjoyed this story and would highly recommend it!	2004-09-07
US	31630498	RBHJR7NZVGS9M	0758205600	910409451	Return To Me	Books	3	11	15	N	N	Disappointed	I am a huge Shannon McKenna fan after reading her first novel, which was excellent.  Great story, great hero and heroine and the love scenes were incredible!  I also enjoyed her second novel which was a continuation of the first.   <br /> <br />This third novel is a letdown.  The plot is underdeveloped; our hero, Simon, is very annoying and actually so is our heroine, Ellen.  The only characters I really like are Brad and Cora who should have been developed more, and Ellen's mom who becomes likable about half way through the book.   <br /> <br />Simon is a bad boy who left town 17 years ago after a barn burned down and he was accused of the crime.  The entire town thought he was guilty back then and when he returns to town, they still think of him as a \\"bad seed\\" even though now he is a famous photojournalist.  Simon is not only smart, tall, dark and sexy, but he is also very rich.  So knowing all this about our hero, it is very annoying that throughout the entire book he lets every loser in town intimidate and upset him from the local sheriff to the local backwards townsfolk still living there.  He has more issues than most women.  And every time he gets upset he runs away.   <br /> <br />Now the girl he left behind is Ellen.  She has never left town and has opened up a successful bed and breakfast.  She is about to be married when Simon returns. Once Simon returns and meets Ellen again, they are instantly attracted to each other.  At the same time, Simon is insanely jealous of Ellen when he finds out she is about to be married.  He is crushed and heartbroken but spends many moments whining that he is not good enough for her and will bring her bad luck.    The remainder of the plot is Simon cleaning out his uncle Gus' home, trying to determine if Gus' death was a suicide, and trying to figure out what to do about Ellen.   <br /> <br />This character was very weak and I usually get major pleasure from the love scenes between Ms. McKenna's characters, and even that seemed watered down in this novel.   <br /> <br />This book is an average read but I still like her novels and will be looking forward to the next one.	2004-09-06
US	31630498	R2V0JIRZUH97WS	0743453492	492214240	Beachcomber	Books	2	1	1	N	N	Very Mediocre Book	I am a Karen Robarts fan.  Unfortunately, this novel does not live up to my expectations of the author.  Lately it seems many of my favorite authors have stopped writing good suspense stories and instead have opted to throw out books that if were used in a college course, would definitely come back with a \\"C.\\" <br /> <br />Our heroine is Christy Petrino who grew up in New Jersey and is from a mob family.  Her mom dates a mob guy, her sister was married to one.  Christy wants a different life, so instead of getting a mob boyfriend, she goes to law school and becomes a lawyer.  After law school, Christy is offered a large salary to work at the law firm of a childhood friend who owns a law firm and who also later becomes her fiance.  Christy accepts the job assuming he is not in the mob.  It never occurs to her that maybe the law firm is a cover.  When she finds out and tries to leave they ask her to deliver a package and then she can go.  Okay what part of this plot sounds even remotely believable??  Well Christy makes the drop and while leaving feels like she is being followed.  She makes a run for it and literally runs over the body of a woman.  She continues running to her house and then has a 10 to 15 minute conversation with various characters while the girl on the beach is murdered.  I would hope that most people after discovering someone hurt would not spend extra wasted time introducing themselves to each other.  This part of the plot was so disbelievable!  And suffice it to say, by the time the entire group reaches the beach, the poor girl is dead.  At this time, Christy meets hunky blond surfer dude next door who is actually an undercover FBI agent.  The rest of story involves really dumb plots which throw them together and basically they have to work together to keep her alive before the killer murders her and to catch the entire mob family. <br /> <br />I will not go into the list of flaws with this story - there are too many.  (e.g. BIG mob boss - only TWO FBI agents watching him and guess what?  shoddy electronic equipment that doesn't work and the excuse given is after 9/11 all of the money is going for terrorists so noone cares about the mob anymore)  Can we say dumb???  Also, the killer turns out to be someone that it cannot possibly be after you read the original description of that person.  Also, our heroine keeps getting attacked but the mob doesn't care, they keep sending her back to the same cottage, and to save her family she goes.  You would think most mobsters would not want to call attention to themselves, why send someone who works for them back to the area of publicity?  I mean this novel assumes EVERYONE and I mean EVERYONE from the sheriff to his employees; to the heroine and her family, and the FBI are all IDIOTS.  There is a scene where the FBI agent wants to follow her, so he locks himself in the trunk of her car - Okay not only is this very unbelievable but plain dumb!  And this kind of nonsense is what you can expect from all of the characters in this very silly story.  I made myself finish the book; but it is not an exciting read.   <br /> <br />I am truly tired of reading suspense and mystery novels by writers who will not even think is this even remotely believable! Want to read about a real herione battling a serial killer?  Try the Nicci French novels.  Hopefully Ms. Roberts next novel will be above a college no strike that high school paper.	2004-09-05
US	31630498	R1RAGTRLIA8AXV	038078145X	15276320	Stranger in My Arms	Books	2	5	8	N	N	Average Read	I love all types of books. Mystery Suspense Horror, etc., and I am also a sucker for romances. Now when I read romance I do not expect the plot to be as believable as a mystery or suspense story but I do expect good romance. This novel was none of the above. Lara's husband is dead, and she has been relegated to a windy beatup cabin on the property by the selfish snotty relatives who took over the family money after her husband's death. Surprise her husband is alive and back in the picture. The rest of the story involves is he or is he not her husband? Can she trust him? Can she love him? Also, when she has doubts, does she confront her husband the man she loves, no she turns to the mean selfish snooty relatives that she lived with before and then is in shock when they treat her shabbily. Also she doesn't want to have sex with her husband and at every opportunity tries to throw his mistress at him but when she finally gets them together gets upset. This heroine is very annoying in this story. Her actions are silly and its hard to have any sympathy for her. I like Lisa Kleypas's novels, but this is definitely not one of her best.	2004-09-05
US	31630498	R3OL2E1O0ZNE36	1551668440	933517522	Snowfall	Books	3	40	41	N	N	Very average read	I am an avid reader of all types of novels but I love romance.  I have read quite a few romance novels and this was basically very very average.  Meet Caitlin Bennett poor little rich girl who has no one in her life.  She is a mystery writer and keeps herself locked up in her penthouse apartment.  She starts to receive hate mail and is pushed in front of a car.  At this point she knows that someone is stalking her.  Her friend asks his brother to come protect her, and enter Mac, the bodyguard.  These two have never liked each other and now are forced to spend time together until the stalker and of course later we find out he is a killer is caught.  <br /> <br />I don't expect much of a plot when I read a romance.  In fact, I'm used to the plots being \\"corny\\" and \\"underdeveloped.\\"  But not only was this story line silly as a \\"mystery\\" but the romance was awful.  The Caitlin character spent most of the time whining, but you were supposed to like her because she treated her chaffeaur like one of the family.  She's extremely wealthy and thinks someone is stalking her, but never bothers to hire private security.  Her publisher gets a bomb threat and doesn't hire private security.  When she is finally assaulted, one person comes to her rescue.  This story had the usual flaws I find in many poorly written stories (e.g. the killer enters her apartment very easily through the roof).  This was so hard to swallow - how many of the rich and famous have their homes poorly equipped so just about any nutcase off the street could enter.  How many rich people would stay terriorized and not hire anyone to protect them?  (The answer is zero, only a poor person would stay terrorized for months).  Also the heroine's actions are just plain dumb (e.g. going on tv) And finally the killer was so predictable you knew who he would be in the first few chapters.  Because in every poorly written story I've read, that's who the killer usually is. Very average read.	2004-09-05
US	31630498	RDF00M7SVT2FN	0451202317	819046965	Beyond Eden	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Average Read	I picked up this novel after finishing Catherine Coulter's Riptide which I thought was excellent.  This novel while not bad was a very very average read.  Lindsay Foxe is a supermodel with the family from hell.  Her father hates her; her mother's an alcoholic; and her wicked step sister stepped right out of the Cinderella fairy tale.  Lindsay has just been involved in an explosion on a set and is rushed to the hospital.  At this point the novel goes back in time and you learn of all the events leading up to the explosion.  The main story line is who is trying to kill her?  Her family, etc.  I personally though the Lindsay character was very annoying.  She was one of the wealthiest girls around but did nothing to help herself heal. She took constant abuse from her family for no reason at all except she didn't have enough guts to stand up for herself, and this is our pathetic, whiny heroine.  Enter the hero Taylor who is hired as her body guard, and who of course falls in love with her.  He doesn't love her because she's beautiful (although she is a model who was on the cover of Elle), but because of her kick me while I'm down personality?   <br /> <br />This was an average read with an annoying heroine.	2004-09-05
US	31630498	R2X07GKDFXVNG4	0380819627	424656513	In My Wildest Dreams (Governess Brides, Book 4)	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Very Romantic - Copycat Story	I actually enjoyed the romance in this story very much.  The novel gets three stars because its not an original story, but a rewrite of another author's work.  In fact the book is an exact copycat story of the 1954 film \\"Sabrina\\" starring Humphrey Bogart and the 1995 remake with Harrison Ford.  The movie and book are the same except in the movie her father was the chaffeur.  Still its a beautiful story.  Her father is an employee of a very rich family.  Celeste (and in the movie she was called Sabrina) has always watched and had a crush on the younger brother, Ellery.  She goes away to school and becomes polished and returns hoping to have Ellery fall in love with her.  The older brother, Garrick (who is in charge of the business and considered a ruthless businessman) notices and romances the girl himself to keep her away from his brother.  And of course falls in love.  The characters are good and the story is romantic.   Very light hearted romance and I definitely recommend.  In fact, if you like this romance I would recommend seeing both movies.	2004-09-05
US	31630498	R1VRO4JTDKLH4K	0441011675	477958501	Dead to the World (Southern Vampire Mysteries, Book 4)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Great Series	I am a big fan of sci-fi, horror and especially vampire novels.  The Sookie Stackhouse series has become one of my favorite series!  This is the fourth book in the series, and although it stands on its own, I would advise reading the series in order (Dead Until Dark; Living Dead In Dallas; Club Dead and Dead to the World.) <br /> <br />Sookie is a waitress working in a small town.  Sookie is fun and lovable, and also telephatic.  In a small town this has caused her a quite a few dating and relationships problems because she knows what everyone is thinking.  Sookie is a very lovable heroine.  She is just your average girl with everyday problems, e.g., an old car that she fears will break down, having enough money to pay the monthly bills, and at the moment, dealing with a breakup from her boyfriend Bill.) <br /> <br />In Sookie's world there are vampires, werewolves, witches and many other supernatural types.  Although most people only know about the existence of vampires, the supernatural has become a part of Sookie's life through her ex boyfriend Bill, the vampire.   <br /> <br />In Dead to the World, Bill and Sookie are still broken up, and Bill is going on a business trip to Peru.  While he is gone, Sookie's biggest plan is to stay out of trouble which means stay away from all the supernatural elements which usually end up with her being injured. (If you have been reading the series, you know that Sookie is forever getting beat up and/or badly injured because she is dealing with supernatural creatures with extraordinary strength).  <br /> <br />Now Sookie's plan is working fine until on the way home from work, she runs into a naked Eric (Bill's boss and another vampire) running alongside the highway.  Sookie picks him up and discovers he has lost his memory.  And Sookie being Sookie agrees to help hide him out from the people who hurt him, while also trying to help him get his memory back.  Also a twist is thrown in when Sookie's brother disappears.  There's theusual romance and southern charm, and all of the characters that we love in this series. <br /> <br />What makes this series work so well, is that Charlaine Harris has kept Sookie as a very loving character.  You can't help but like her!  She genuinely cares for people which is why she is always helping them and getting herself in trouble.  Throw in all the supernatural characters in a small town setting and you have yet another winner by Charlaine Harris.  I can hardly wait for the next book in the series.  <br /> <br />Very enjoyable; highly recommend.	2004-09-04
US	31630498	R1Y4UZZEWSD3AI	0446609781	332779254	Beneath the Skin	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Good Thriller	This book was passed to me by a co-worker, and I am now interested in reading all of Nicci French's novels.  This story is about three different women and the effect a killer has on each of them.  I found the story line believable and the characters interesting especially Zoe.  I like mystery and suspense stories but lately I have become very disappointed with many story lines that want you to accept unbelievable plots and characters (e.g. she knows a killer is chasing her, but she has to go for a jog; or the package left on the doorstep even though the place is surrounded by agents).      This novel has a solid plot, and all of the characters and their actions are believable.  This story is about three different women and their contact with one killer who is stalking all three of them.  The first woman is Zoe (who is my favorite character), she is lonely and loveable and you want to protect her.  Then there is Jenny who is a shrew and you hate her and her annoying attitude, but at the same time, as you find out why her character is the way it is, you begin to feel a bit of empathy for her. Then there's Nadia, who is tough and strong and a fighter.  The novel is pretty much about how each different personality reacts to this serial killer stalking them.    Excellent Excellent Read!  I would highly recommend.	2004-09-04
US	31630498	R2TD8Y7MCQ22L4	1551669684	30092272	Butterfly	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Average Mystery	I am a big fan of mysteries and thrillers, and lately have been looking for new and exciting authors.  The biggest problem I have is that lately many story lines are either \\"boring\\" \\"have been done a million times\\" or are just unbelievable.  I thought this book was ok.  China the main character, pregnant and homeless, witnesses a murder.  The killer then tries to kill her but she lives.  Enter the cop who with one look wants to be her protector, and has to keep her safe while trying to find the killer.  I like Sharon Sala but did not find this book very original or even exciting.	2004-09-04
US	31630498	R34GRBC25L396	0446613886	765311385	Land of the Living	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Excellent Story	This is a wonderful story that kept me on edge until the very end.  I really enjoy the writing team of Nicci French.  This is only my second novel of theirs, but I have already bought a new one to start today.      We have all read the basic boring mystery story of the amnesia victim, but this story goes beyond that.      What if you wake up and you find yourself tied down, head covered in a hood and in the hands of a killer.  What if you are actually lucky enough to get away, but have trouble convincing the police, the doctors and even your friends of the truth?      This is what happens to Abbie, the heroine in our story.  She actually escapes from her killer, but does not remember the events that enabled her to be kidnapped nor does she remember the block of days before she was kidnapped.  At first the police believe her, but then as they investigage, they begin to doubt her story, and believe that she may have made it up.  Abbie has trouble convincing everyone of the truth, because she doesn't remember what actually happened to her in the days leading up to her kidnapping.  This is an excellent story of an amnesia victim trying to piece together her life, before she was captured by a madman.  Also, she knows she has to figure this out, because he knows she got away.      An excellent story that kept me on edge to the end. I would highly recommend.	2004-09-04
US	31630498	R1G9DF1NJ4ZTSA	0380789035	337033298	American Gods	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Excellent Original Story	What an imagination Neil Gaiman has. I LOVED the entire concept of this novel. Very original story line with a wonderful selection of characters. Also Neil Gaiman has made the main character Shadow such a simple, lovable guy that he just pulls at your hearstrings. Shadow is finally getting out of jail. All he wants is to return to his simple life with the woman he loves Laura. Before he leaves prison, he finds out that Laura has been killed. He has no other family and Laura was pretty much his life. His heart is broken and he is at a loss. On the flight home to Laura's funeral Shadow meets a very interesting man named Wednesday. Shadow tries to avoid him, but Wednesday ultimately hires Shadow and takes him on a very wild journey through middle America, with some of the most interesting characters I have ever come across. This is a wonderful story. I would highly recommend	2004-09-04
US	31630498	R3PEPNU62HJ4W3	0441005705	202763707	Shadow saga #1 saints shadows	Books	5	13	14	N	N	One of the best vampire books ever!	I found this book quite by accident and immediately fell in love.  This is a completely different take on vampires and is actually my favorite novel - beating out Tanya Huff's series and even the Anita Blake series.      If you like vampire or horror novels you will love this book.    Our hero is Peter Octavian, a vampire called a \\"defiant one\\", and definitely one of the good guys.  He is a private investigator investigating a missing persons case for a friend of his.      What makes Peter so likeable is that he is a great guy, but he is also all alone.  He left his fellow vampires because he did not believe in their beliefs, and struck out on his own.  He knows secrets about vampires that could help his vampire family, but no one believes him.  They think of him as an outcast.      When you read about Peter, and realize what a good person he is, and how caring he is of humans, his fellow vampires and even the world in general, you really grow to like him.  Also he is such a good strong guy, and you empathize with him because he is all alone without anyone to call family or friend.       Peter gets pulled into a missing persons case that will lead him to a conspiracy involving his \\"family\\" of vampires, the church, other \\"evil\\" vampire clans and a variety of very interesting characters.      This is an excellent excellent story.  I highly recommend to all.  You will not be disappointed.  If you want to read the entire series, it is called the Shadow Saga and book 1 is Of Saints and Shadows (2) Angel Souls and Devil Hearts (3) Of Masques and Martyrs and (4) The Gathering Dark.  I enjoyed this series as much as I enjoyed the first four anita blake novels and more than the tanya huff series.  I highly highly recommend.	2004-04-20
US	31630498	R2QZPTEXYZZWVX	0441010652	440065240	Something from the Nightside (Nightside, Book 1)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	I have fallen in love with a new series!	This is a wonderful new series.  If you like the Anita Blake Series, Tanya Huff and Jim Butcher series, you will love this new series by Simon Green.  <br />This is the first book in the series.  John Taylor is a private eye in London.  He is not originally from London though.  He grew up in The Nightside, which is a secret world where nighttime never ends, and where every fantasy character you can imagine you will find from sleezy clubs, to demons, to the most interesting cast of characters I have read about in a while.  John Taylor left the Nightside five years ago with no intention of ever returning.  Then along comes a missing persons case that he cannot say no to.  John has a special gift.  He finds things.  He can pretty much find anything that you are looking for.  Well his new client's daughter is missing and the last place she was seen was the Nightside.  <br />I do not want to spoil the story, but this is a world you will LOVE.  I highly highly recommend.	2004-04-20
US	31630498	R2974Z1QFG652	0441005845	745415944	Of Masques and Martyrs (Peter Octavian)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Excellent Series	This is an excellent vampire series.  If this is your first Christopher Golden book I would highly suggest reading this series in order: (1) Of Saints and Shadows (2) Angel Souls and Devil Hearts (3) Of Masques and Martyrs and (4) The Gathering Dark. I enjoyed this series as much as I enjoyed the first four anita blake novels and more than the tanya huff series. I highly highly recommend. <br />Book #3 continues where Book #2 left off.  There is still a huge war between the good vampires versus evil vampires.  The evil vampires have taken over the world and are hunting humans.  The world used to have sympathy for vampires, but through senseless acts of violence and killing by Hannibal, vampires are hated amongst humans.  This makes life even harder for the good vampires who want to live in harmony with humans.  This book continues the war with the evil ones.  The leader of the good vampires is still our hero Peter Octavian.<br />This is an excellent vampire series.  I highly recommend.  You will not be disappointed.	2004-04-20
US	31630498	RO6EI6DKHWYZ	0441005780	263088790	Shadow saga #2: angel souls and devil hearts	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Excellent Series	This is an excellent vampire series.  Very different take on vampires.  If this is your first Christopher Golden book in the Shadow Saga, I would highly suggest reading the series in order.  (1) Of Saints and Shadows (2) Angel Souls and Devil Hearts (3) Of Masques and Martyrs and (4) The Gathering Dark. I enjoyed this series as much or even more than the anita blake and tanya huff series.  Highly recommended.<br />Book #2 continues where book #1 ended.  At the end of book 1, the world found out that vampires really do exist.  The world is also very sympathetic to vampires because in book 1 a few evil members of the church tried to have them exterminated, and all of it was caught by a news crew.  Vampires now have rights in the world.  Counsels have been formed to help vampires and humans work and live together.  <br />But things are not as &quot;perfect&quot; as they seem.  Hannibal one of the vampire leaders is upset at the new life of the vampire.  He liked the vampires of old, attacking the humans, killing them.  He doesn't want to be their friend, he wants to hunt them.  Hannibal secretly starts to build his own army of evil vampires.  He has plans to attack when the time is right.  <br />Also, as usual with this series, a variety of characters are involved in different things.  In Book 1 you met Wild Bill Cody and the famous news reporter Allison.  They are now a couple, and taking a vacation.  While on vacation, they come across some demonic incidents and then the evil villain from Book #1 makes a return appearance.  This book is about the fight between the evil versus good vampires; and the evil demons in hell.  <br />Very good book and a GREAT series.  Highly recommended.	2004-04-20
US	31630498	R3HDWK3WRGRUUN	0886777399	762142516	Blood Debt (Victory Nelson)	Books	3	27	33	N	N	Okay end to the Series	Excellent Series - This is the fifth novel in Tanya Huff's  vampire series. Although this book is my least favorite, it is still an excellent series overall.  This is the final chapter involving Vicki, an ex-cop, Mike, a detective who is Vicki's lover, and Henry, a vampire, romance writer who is Vicki's ex-love. (If you have not read the entire series, you must read it, you will not be disappointed. The series order: Blood Price, Blood Trail, Blood Lines, Blood Pact and Blood Debt). <br />This fifth book begins with Vicki and Mike as a couple.  if you have read the series, you know that Vicki and Henry were in love but Vicki was badly hurt and Henry made her into a vampire.  There are rules that vampires must follow, and one is that they can't hunt in the same territory.  Vicki had one year with Henry while he taught her everything she needed to know to survive as a vampire.  She left Henry, and returned to Mike, her first boyfriend.  <br />What makes this fifth book so irritating at times, is Henry and Vicki's new personalities which come out in the fifth book.  Before Vicki became a vampire, she was already a little irritating.  She was an overbearing loud mouth woman cop, who had temper tamtrums, banged things when she got angry and had yelling matches with her boyfriend Mike to the point they woke the neighbors.  This behavior is already a little over the top, now throw in the fact that Vicki is a vampire, and even more aggressive, and she at times can be a downright irritating character.  Also my favorite character of all was Henry, a vampire, and romance writer, who with his wealth of years, always seemed calm and in control.  Not in this fifth book.  <br />Henry keeps seeing ghosts.  The ghosts will ask him a question, and then an innocent person dies.  When Henry cannot figure this out on his own, he has to call Vicki to help him.  As soon as Vicki arrives, none of the old romance is there, instead, they spend the entire novel snarling at each other like animals (which is so unlike Henry's character in any of the other novels).  It's very disappointing.  Throw in Mike with his yelling and Italian cop testostrone and the most likeable character in book number 5 is Tony, Henry's roommate.<br />Basically Henry and Vicki will have to stop fighting long enough to solve the crime.  I'm glad there was a fifth book, but I am also glad the series ended here.  Otherwise, I could see myself becoming disappointed.  Vicki as a vampire is annoying. <br />Still good series - definitely worth reading.	2004-04-02
US	31630498	R2ZKM9KNP0554S	0451183274	253952926	The Night Inside (Creed)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Excellent Vampire Story	I am a collector of vampire novels, and after reading a few recommendations, I picked up Nancy Baker's \\"The Night Inside\\" (which by the way is also \\"Kiss of the Vampire).\\"  Do not make the mistake of picking up both books like I did.  It is the exact same story.  <br />Ardeth is a graduate student living at college.  She just finished a project with two of her friends (also graduate students).  She is saddened when one of her friends and ex-lover dies, but that sadness also becomes wariness when the second person she was working on the project with also dies.  Also, she felt at one point that she was being followed.  <br />Her fears become reality, when while jogging on campus one morning, she is literally snatched by two men, thrown in a van, and knocked out.  When Ardeth recovers she finds herself locked in a cell, with a vampire in another cell next door named Dimitri Rozokov.  She finds out that she has been kidnapped to be his food source.  She is terrified of the vampire, but as time passes, she realizes she is even more horrified by her sadistic kidnappers (who are making x-rated, snuff films for profit using the vampire).  <br />As the days pass, Ardeth begins to see the vampire Dimitri as a person, and as they get closer, she realizes her and Dimitri will have to come up with a plan to outsmart the kidnappers. But just how far is she willing to go to live?  <br />I don't want to give too much away, but this is an excellent, excellent story.  I really enjoyed all of the characters.  I would highly recommend.  <br />(Also as this is an out of print book, you can find used copies on amazon.com and other used book sites.  Definitely worth buying	2004-04-01
US	31630498	R27GOSXOFY141Q	0449149579	319295680	Kiss of the Vampire	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Excellent Vampire Story	I am a collector of vampire novels, and after reading a few recommendations, I picked up Nancy Baker's \\"Kiss of the Vampire\\" (which by the way is also \\"The Night Inside).\\"  Do not make the mistake of picking up both books like I did.  It is the exact same story.  <br />Ardeth is a graduate student living at college.  She just finished a project with two of her friends (also graduate students).  She is saddened when one of her friends and ex-lover dies, but that sadness also becomes wariness when the second person she was working on the project with also dies.  Also, she felt at one point that she was being followed.  <br />Her fears become reality, when while jogging on campus one morning, she is literally snatched by two men, thrown in a van, and knocked out.  When Ardeth recovers she finds herself locked in a cell, with a vampire in another cell next door named Dimitri Rozokov.  She finds out that she has been kidnapped to be his food source.  She is terrified of the vampire, but as time passes, she realizes she is even more horrified by her sadistic kidnappers (who are making [some] snuff films for profit using the vampire).  <br />As the days pass, Ardeth begins to see the vampire Dimitri as a person, and as they get closer, she realizes her and Dimitri will have to come up with a plan to outsmart the kidnappers. But just how far is she willing to go to live?  <br />I don't want to give too much away, but this is an excellent, excellent story.  I really enjoyed all of the characters.  I would highly recommend (...).	2004-04-01
US	31630498	RCE01W7974EED	0670844268	253952926	The Covenant	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Excellent Vampire Story	I am a collector of vampire novels, and after reading a few recommendations, I picked up Nancy Baker's \\"The Night Inside\\" (which by the way is also \\"Kiss of the Vampire).\\"  Do not make the mistake of picking up both books like I did.  It is the exact same story.  <br />Ardeth is a graduate student living at college.  She just finished a project with two of her friends (also graduate students).  She is saddened when one of her friends and ex-lover dies, but that sadness also becomes wariness when the second person she was working on the project with also dies.  Also, she felt at one point that she was being followed.  <br />Her fears become reality, when while jogging on campus one morning, she is literally snatched by two men, thrown in a van, and knocked out.  When Ardeth recovers she finds herself locked in a cell, with a vampire in another cell next door named Dimitri Rozokov.  She finds out that she has been kidnapped to be his food source.  She is terrified of the vampire, but as time passes, she realizes she is even more horrified by her sadistic kidnappers (who are making x-rated, snuff films for profit using the vampire).  <br />As the days pass, Ardeth begins to see the vampire Dimitri as a person, and as they get closer, she realizes her and Dimitri will have to come up with a plan to outsmart the kidnappers. But just how far is she willing to go to live?  <br />I don't want to give too much away, but this is an excellent, excellent story.  I really enjoyed all of the characters.  I would highly recommend.  <br />(Also as this is an out of print book, you can find used copies on amazon.com, half.com and even abebooks.com.).	2004-04-01
US	31630498	R222FVUAFXGZ9V	0886775825	962590541	Blood Pact	Books	5	2	3	N	N	4th Book in the Series	Excellent Series - This is the fourth novel in Tanya Huff's excellent vampire series. This book and the entire series gets 5+ stars. Although I must admit I liked the first three books more, this still is an excellent continuation of the story involving Vicki, Mike and Henry.  (If you have not read the entire series, you must read it, you will not be disappointed. The series order: Blood Price, Blood Trail, Blood Lines, Blood Pact and Blood Debt). <br />This fourth book continues with Vicki, an ex cop turned private investigator, who had to leave the police force because she is losing her night vision. From previous novels you met Henry, a 400 year old vampire who is also a romantic writer, and Vicki's friend and lover. Also, you met Mike, Vicki's ex-partner, who is also involved with Vicki. <br />As the fourth book begins Vicki receives the telephone call that no one wants to receive.  Her mother has died unexpectedly.  Vicki has to come to grips with her mother's death, and at the same time if you have been reading the earlier books of the series, also has to finally deal with her relationship between Mike and Henry who both love her. <br />This book has some surprise twists, namely the fact that even though her mother is supposed to be dead, While Vicki is staying at her mother's house, she sees her in a window.  Is she dead, or isn't she? <br />This fourth book had some surprise twists, and I must say I felt a little saddened for Henry in this series, who for so many centuries has been alone.  But I won't give away more, you will have to read it to find out.  A very excellent book if you are into the Tanya Huff series.  I recommend.	2004-04-01
US	31630498	R37DDPG1KLW1NK	0670844268	253952926	The Covenant	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Excellent Vampire Story	I am a collector of vampire novels, and after reading a few recommendations, I picked up Nancy Baker's \\"The Night Inside\\" (which by the way is also \\"Kiss of the Vampire).\\"  Do not make the mistake of picking up both books like I did.  It is the exact same story.  I don't want to give too much away, but this is an excellent, excellent story.  I really enjoyed all of the characters.  I would highly recommend.  <br />(Also as this is an out of print book, you can find used copies on amazon.com and other used book sites.  Definitely worth buying).	2004-04-01
US	31630498	RKZYBOWQD0AYO	0380802325	85428738	Suddenly You	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Wonderful Romance	Okay thank you Lisa Kleypas for an unusual heroine and a wonderful love story.  Meet Amanda Briars, upcoming writer, and overweight spinster.  She decides for her thirtieth birthday she is going to give herself the ultimate birthday present, a man.  She goes to a \\"madam who deals with ladies of the evening\\" and asks her to send a \\"man\\" to her home.  <br />Jack Devlin is a very rich businessman who has a huge publishing empire.  He goes to Amanda's house to attempt to convince her to help him rewrite an old story of hers that he bought from another publisher.  Amanda mistakes Jack for her \\"man of the evening,\\" and Jack is quite surprised and instantly interested in Amanda.  This is an excellent story and you will not be disappointed.	2004-03-12
US	31630498	R1RS5N2W90P374	0786015993	69372754	Thirst	Books	3	5	6	N	N	S&M Vampire Love	I am a collector of vampire novels.  I found \\"Thirst\\" while hunting through the horror section of my bookstore.  I have read a few of the reviews of this novel, and I will start by saying everyone has different tastes when it comes to a novel.  I have to admit I was very disappointed.  I felt that the novel had promise, but then turned into an incest, S&M, orgy \\"fest.\\" <br />Cassandra is a struggling poet living in New York.  During the day she works as a window dresser, and at night she attends poetry readings.  While at a poetry reading she meets Julian, a mysterious and handsome man.  There is an instant attraction.  Initially Julian seems like a very likeable guy, he starts off very mysterious and romantic, and Cassandra is instantly in love.  (He takes her to expensive restaurants, and shows and even on a carriage ride). <br />Suddenly Julian warns Cassandra that if she continues in their relationship she has to know how he really is.  He tells her to think about it and if she wants to continue the relationship to show up at his home in a week. Cassandra is in love, she shows up.  At this point, the entire novel turns into S&M, with Cassandra licking Julian's shoes; kneeling at his feet; and being so caught up in their love making that she even allows herself to be tied up constantly, tortured and even branded.  And if that's not enough Julian's sister enters the picture and soon its an S&M menage a trois involving incest. <BR> <BR>Each chapter, the story jumps back and forth from the present (where Cassandra is on the run from a group called the advocates (executioners who want to kill her because she broke one of the first vampire laws which says that you cannot kill another vampire)), and the past describing her blossoming relationship with Julian.  When the novel is in the present we already know she has killed a vampire, we just don't know who, but we also know that neither Julian or his sister is in her present life. I personally found the chapters whereCassandra first met Julian more interesting than the chapters of her present life.  Her present life is not all that interesting, and she's not a likeable heroine.  She's a killer and you cannot blame the advocates for wanting her dead. <br />I don't think this story went anywhere.  It was just a bunch of S&M, sex, incest, and group sex and then at the last chapter, an ending was thrown in.  If you are not into the above listed items (which I am not) then I recommend you try another novel.	2004-03-12
US	31630498	R2Y83OI80IC7BM	0440215900	347801275	Walking After Midnight	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Great Story	I must admit I am a big time Karen Robards fan and I have enjoyed almost all of her novels.  Her stories are contemporary romances involving a strong heroine, and an equally strong hero usually thrown together with impossible odds.  What makes Ms. Robards' stories stand out, is the quality of her characters.  Not every heroine has to be model beautiful, nor does every hero have to be 6'4\\", dark and handsome.  Her characters tend to be every day people.  This story is no different. <br />Summer is a former lingerie model who has hit hard times.  She is in her late 30s, and her rich husband has left her.  Since that time she has been struggling to start her life over and to begin a business. Sunny is the owner of Daisy French cleaning services.  One night her employees do not show up, and Summer has to clean the mortuary of one of her biggest clients.  While cleaning, she sees a naked body on the embalming today.  At one point she thinks she sees the body move, but she is not sure.  She is afraid of leaving someone alive just lying on a table and decides to check.  At that instant, Summer meets Steve, a man who has been badly beaten and left for dead.  Steve wakes up beaten and naked and thinking Summer is working with the guys trying to kill him, he grabs her and forces her to go on the run with him. <br />The story picks up from there, with Summer, Steve and Summer's mom's dog \\"Muffy\\" in tow.  They must stay on the run and try to stay one step ahead of Steve's would be killers.  I would highly recommend this story.	2004-03-12
US	31630498	RT7NPXH707465	0821772279	638357043	Realm of Shadows	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Average Story	I have to admit, I love vampire novels, but I am not the biggest fan of Ms. Drake, and it may be because this was the first Drake novel I read.  The characters in this novel were not very developed, and in fact the main heroine, Tara, I found to be annoying.  Tara goes to Paris to visit her grandfather who may or may not be going senile.  He asks her to go and check on an archeological dig, and even though she just arrived, she decides to go to make her grandfather happy.  While there of course archeologists dig up a vampire and the killings began.  At this point Tara meets Brent, who may or may not be the killer.  Tara is not sure if she should trust Brent but at the same time she is attracted to him.  This story has many other characters and many other mini plots, but the book never seems to come together.  It was an \\"average\\" story and I can only give it three stars.	2004-03-12
US	31630498	R3R8GZG5GJ5YHT	0553569406	594856539	Mistress	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Cute Romance	Amanda Quick is the queen of historical romance.  This is another beautiful fantasy romance.  Iphignia Bright is trying to find out who is blackmailing her aunt.  To do this she must go to London, infiltrate the ton, and find out who the blackmailer is.  She decides the best way to get the ton's attention is to become the mistress of the Earl of Masters, who is not even in town.  Iphignia is immersed in town life, and at a ball, when who should appear but the Earl of Masters.  The Earl of Masters is attracted to Iphignia, but he also has a friend that is being blackmailed, and since he already knows Iphignia is not telling the truth (she is definitely not his mistress), he decides she may be the blackmailer.  This is a cute romance.  I would recommend.	2004-03-12
US	31630498	R1YJNGX6VILEPD	0743453476	422431630	Whispers at Midnight	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Great Story	Karen Robards is an excellent contemporary romance writer.  She is one of my favorites!  This is another enjoyable read. <br />Carly Linton returns to her hometown to her grandmother's home.  She is going to turn the home into a bed and breakfast hotel.  She brings with her, her best friend and cook , Sandra.  When Carly left town she was a flat chested girl with brown curly hair.  Carly returns with breast implants, blond hair and an entirely new attitude.  <br />When Carly and Sharon first arrive they think they have run into a burgler.  They tackle the burgler and try to run away.  After being tackled to the ground, Carly comes face to face with not a burgler, but Matt, the local sheriff.  When Carly left town, she had a big crush on Matt, who at that time was the town's sexy bad boy.  Carly is still pretty pissed off at Matt for taking her on one date to her prom; having sex with her and then forgetting about her.  Matt on the other hand cannot believe how much Carly has changed, and the old sparks start to fly.  Still, things are not quite what they seem.  A murder has occurred in town, and somehow is connected to Carly.  Carly and Matt will have to work together to find the killer, that is if Carly doesn't kill Matt first for dumping her all those years ago.  This is a wonderful story.  The characters kept me chuckling until the end.  I would highly recommned.	2004-03-12
US	31630498	RA15691GO4J0K	0886775302	66395211	Blood Lines	Books	5	5	6	N	N	5+ Stars - Excellent Book and Excellent Series	Excellent Series -  This is the third novel in Tanya Huff's excellent vampire series.  This book and the entire series gets 5+ stars.  It's excellent!  (If you have not read the entire series, you must read it, you will not be disappointed.  The series order:  Blood Price, Blood Trail, Blood Lines, Blood Pact and Blood Debt). <br />This third book continues with Vicki, an ex cop turned private investigator, who had to leave the police force because she is losing her night vision. From previous novels you met Henry, a 400 year old vampire who is also a romantic writer, and Vicki's friend and lover.  Also, you met Mike, Vicki's ex-partner, who is also involved with Vicki. <br />This third novel begans with Henry.  Once Henry became a vampire he stopped having dreams.  Suddenly Henry is dreaming again, and the dreams are slowly driving him mad.  He is dreaming of the sun, and very afraid.  He does not know if he is losing his mind, or if this is signaling his upcoming death.  He calls Vicki for help.  <br />At the same time Mike is working on a weird case involving two deaths at a museum both involving heart failure.  This seems strange to Mike.  As he contnues the investigation, he realizes something not quite human may be causing these deaths.  Mike asks Vicki for help, and soon it will take Mike, Henry and Vicki working together to keep more people from dying.   Also there are complications with all three of them working together because the two men are becoming jealous of each other as their attraction to Vicki grows. <br />Excellent excellent book!	2004-03-12
US	31630498	RKH9B95KA6412	0380800810	901291495	How to Marry a Marquis (Avon Romantic Treasure)	Books	2	4	5	N	N	Average	I am a big fan of Julia Quinn's romance novels.  Usually the characters just connect and its a wonderful romance.  I did not enjoy this book.  In fact, I thought the characters were a little annoying, especially the heroine.  Elizabeth Hotchkiss works as a companion to an elderly woman so she can keep her and her brothers and sisters together.  They are a very poor by happy family.  James, the Marquis of Riverdale has been summoned by his aunt (who is also Elizabeth's employer) to help her hunt down a blackmailer.  James disguises himself as his aunt's man of affairs and arrives.  He and Elizabeth meet and are attracted to each other.  Throw into this mix a book that Elizabeth just happens to discover in her employer's library entitled \\"how to marry a marquis.\\"  In it, are steps to take to marry a marquis probably written by a spinster.  This novel is awful and contains all of the wrong information.  Elizabeth though reads it and decides the only way to save her family is to follow the instructions and to entrap a husband.  The story line is okay, it's just that the characters did not click, and they were so annoying I found myself grinding my teeth.  This novel is just okay, Julia Quinn definitely has better work out there.	2004-03-12
US	31630498	R3W13MY4PHQ8FW	0821768379	970928892	Deep Midnight	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Average Story	I have been collecting vampire novels for years, and Shannon Drake's name keeps popping up.  She has a series of novels.  This is my second novel by her, and I think it is just an average read.  <br />Jordan Riley travels to Venice to be with her cousin Jared and his wife.  While she is there she attends a Carnivale ball given by the Contessa Nari.  During the ball, Jordan wanders to a different floor and suddenly part of the guests change into beasts and began attacking the other partiers.  Jordan is afraid of being killed, when suddenly a guest dressed up as a wolf saves her life, by grabbing her and throwing her into a small boat where she is safely rowed ashore.  <br />The next day she tries to tell her cousin, the police, and even visits the Contessa, and everyone tells her she just had a bad dream.  Now the rest of the story continues with Jordan trying to get someone, anyone to believe her.  Her cousin is angry because she is telling tales and ruining his business contacts; her cousin's wife is angry because her husband is angry; one of the policeman may believe her but he needs more evidence; and the one person who seems to believe her, Ragnor who is also a guest at the hotel she is staying at, she doesn't trust.  The plot continues like this throughout the book.  Ragnor is trying to protect her, while she avoids him. Jordan looks for clues and constantly ends up alone where she feels like she is being \\"watched\\" or \\"followed.\\"  Personally I thought Jordan was a very annoying character; who kept getting into uncomfortable situations by not thinking them through.  And she was constantly running from the one person who was trying to help her.  I thought the plot of this story was weak and could have been better.   An average book.	2004-03-12
US	31630498	R9S81FPU7L3MZ	0743456173	147794316	Just the Way You Are (Lost Texas Hearts, Book 1)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Great Story	I really enjoyed this story.  I would highly recommend.  Hope Prescott has had a very tough life.  When she was 16, her family was torn apart when both her parents were killed.  Her brother and sisters were split up and placed in different foster homes.  Hope survived, but today as an adult she is still struggling. She barely makes any money, and is trying to work her way through college.  She finally has a job she enjoys though working for an answering service.  Zack Givens is rich and very hard nosed.  His secretary leaves on vacation for two weeks and Zack is stuck using an answering service for his messages.  Zack meets Hope on the telephone and is immediately attracted to her.  There is only one problem Hope believes Zack is actually his butler.  This is a beautiful \\"Pretty Woman\\" type romance.	2004-03-11
US	31630498	R9ZG6C4XJ7ZGY	0312979975	283452346	Fantasy Lover	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Wonderful Story	Okay I admit I am a Sherrilyn Kenyon fanatic.  Once I discovered her \\"Dark Hunter\\" series I lost it!  This is actually the first book before the Dark Hunter Series.  It's a very beautiful and oh so sexy contemporary love story.  Grace Alexander is not what you would call sexy by a long shot.  She's a little chunky, and knows she is no beauty.  Her best friend Selena gives Grace a book for her birthday.  Selena informs Grace that this book contains a \\"love slave\\" who will become her every fantasy for a month if she calls him from the book.  As a joke Grace calls forth the love slave, and meets Julian of Macedon.  <BR>Julian is a warrior who has been trapped as a love slave in a book for over 2,000 years by a bitter enemy.  Grace sees past Julian's perfect body, and sees a person in torment.  She is determined to help him solve the curse and find a way out of the book.  She just hopes she can keep her heart as she spends each day with him.  This is a great story.  I would highly recommend!	2004-03-11
US	31630498	R3OLOU3AQCCFGR	0425192083	265259674	To Catch A Wolf (Historical Werewolf Series, Book 4)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Good Story	I love werewolf novels.  This was a very good story.  I enjoyed the various characters.  Athena was crippled at an early age.  Her family is very powerful.  She lives with her brother and her life has been very sheltered as a society hostess. Morgan Holt is a werewolf who was convicted for the killing of his father.  Once he left prison he deserted mankind and traveled with the wolves.  One day he is badly hurt and changes into a man and collapses in front of a circus.  The circus people, meeting another \\"outcast\\", take Morgan in.  Morgan decides to stay with the circus because he owes it to them, and they need his help to earn enough money to support them through the winter.  Athena's brother just happens to meet the circus, and then Athena meets Morgan.  This story is pretty much about Morgan and Athena's growing relationship and how she will have to learn how to let her fear go, and Morgan will have to learn how to love and trust again.  Very good story.	2004-03-11
US	31630498	R11G610ZEEB0J0	0671786601	756884641	To Trust a Stranger	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Good Story	I love Karen Robards' novels.  The heroine is usually pretty lively even when life has dealt them a hard blow, and the men in her novels are all \\"definitely men\\".  This is a very good story and I would highly recommend.  Julie Carlson believes that her husband is having an affair on her.  She decides to track him down and instead runs into a drag queen who is actually private investigator Mac McQuarry.  Mac is interested in Julie, and he also has his own score to settle with Julie's husband who he believes set him up.  Then someone tries to murder Julie, and now its up to Mac to figure out who the killer is before Julie winds up dead.  Very good story!	2004-03-11
US	31630498	RIWA7ZL3QRWBX	0505522438	17111671	Shades of Gray	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Good Story	I collect vampire/lycanthorpe books and have quite a collection. Because of this, I have quite a few Amanda Ashley novels. I consider all of her novels very light reads. The characters usually do not have enough depth for me to give her books 4 or 5 stars, but if you re looking for a good quick vampire romance, that is a quick read, then I would recommend.  Marisa attends a carnival one night and sees an attraction to meet a real vampire.  She meets Alexi who is surrounded by chains.  On her way out she cuts herself and bleeds.  Alexi smells the blood and gets the strength to break free.  He decides that he must have Marisa.  Grigori is a vampire who is hunting Alexi.  While hunting Alexi he meets Marisa and there is an instant attraction.  Also hunting Alexi is a vampire hunter, Edward.  He also meets Marisa and is attracted to her.  Soon it will take both Edward and Grigori to keep Marisa alive.  This was a decent story.  This is actually one of the few Amanda Ashley books that I would give 4 stars to.  I would recommend.  (If you enjoyed this story and are looking for a continuation of the characters, pick up Amanda Ashley's After Sundown).	2004-03-11
US	31630498	R23ALSLZ4B5YCU	0758203187	112368527	Behind Closed Doors (The McCloud Brothers, Book 1)	Books	5	3	6	N	N	5+ - Can I give more stars???	I discovered  Shannon McKenna quite by accident and immediately fell in love.  So far she has only two novels, but I would highly recommend both of them.  She is an amazing writer.  Her writing is not just straight erotica, but actually has a great plot, and great characters.  She is an exceptional writer.  You will not be disappointed.  <br />Raine Cameron is trying to find out what happened to her father.  She knows he was murdered and she is determined to find the killer.  She obtains a job as a secretary working for Victor Lazar who is a very powerful man.  She believes Victor had her father murdered.  Seth Mackey has his own reasons for following Victor. He knows that Victor had his baby brother Jessie killed, and he will do anything to even the score.  Seth is also a wire specialist and can plant bugs and cameras in almost any business or home.  He can also break into just about any system.  Seth bugs Victor's mistress' house, and after Victor's mistress is murdered, a new person moves in.  This is Seth's first vision of Raine.  Even though Seth believes Raine is working and sleeping with Victor he is attracted to her.  Can Seth and Raine learn to trust each other and maybe even learn to love each other while trying to catch a killer?  I would highly recommend.	2004-03-11
US	31630498	R2R4JDL9XG1QV5	0821775286	428893049	After Sundown	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Good Story	I collect vampire/lycanthorpe books and have quite a collection. Because of this, I have quite a few Amanda Ashley novels. I consider all of her novels very light reads. The characters usually do not have enough depth for me to give her books 4 or 5 stars, but if you are looking for a good quick vampire romance, that is a quick read, then I would recommend.  This is actually the second book in a series.  If you would like to read the first book, pick up Amanda Ashley's Shades of Gray.  Still this story definitely stands on its own. <BR> <BR>Edward Ramsey comes from a long line of vampire hunters.  In fact, Edward is in his 40s but has spent his entire life hunting vampires.  He does not socialize and does not interact with family or friends.  Well all of this changes when Grigori, an ancient vampire, turns Edward into a vampire to save his life.  Edward is now the monster that he has always hunted.  He pretty much wants to die.  As Edward is ready to give up, he meets Kelly.  Kelly is very beautiful but is down and out.  She has partied, used drugs and alcohol, and slept with various men.  She is ready to give up when she meets Edward.  This story is about Edward and Kelly's growing friendship that Edward hopes can turn into love.  At the same time, there is a bigger problem, another ancient vampire has arrived in town, Khira, and she is killing every vampire in the city.  This was a good quick read.  I would recommend.	2004-03-11
US	31630498	R29CEYU7GM8OQG	0758203926	244919481	The Lady's Tutor (Brava Historical Romance)	Books	1	6	43	N	N	Degrading Titles	I have been wanting to try one of Robin Schone's novels for awhile.  I finally found \\"The Lady's Tutor\\" at my local bookstore.  This book will be returned tomorrow.  I must admit I did not read the story, or I should say \\"CANNOT\\" read the story.  How a main character can be called \\"the Bastard Sheik\\" instead of his name throughout the book is appalling.  Why not call the heroine \\"the English whore.\\"  That one term was such a turn off that I could not read this book.  Very disappointing.	2004-03-11
US	31630498	RP6QKRGFMUJBL	084395048X	315047773	Lair of the Lion	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Wonderful Story - I highly recommend	I must admit I just love Christine Feehan's writing style.  I have enjoyed every one of her novels and would actually highly recommend anything she writes.  I especially loved this story and the characters.  <br />Isabella Vernaducci is an aristocrat and she needs help.  Her brother has been imprisoned by an enemy and she needs him rescued before he is killed.  She has nowhere to turn, so she decides to go to the home of Don Nicolai DeMarco and plead her brother's case.  Don Nicolai DeMarco is a very rich and powerful aristocrat.  He is also cursed.  He meets Isabella and offers to save her brother if she agrees to live in his home and marry him.  She agrees.  Now Isabella and Don DeMarco will have to work together to solve this curse before it kills Isabella like it has every other DeMarco women who has loved the DeMarco men.  Excellent excellent story.  I highly recommend.	2004-03-11
US	31630498	R1LK0QAMJER8NZ	1551668866	752693205	Twilight Hunger (Mills & Boon Nocturne)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Good Story	I enjoyed this contemporary vampire romance.  I thought the characters worked well together and I would recommend this novel.  Morgan DeSilva is a struggling screenwriter, who cannot seem to get any of her work off the ground.  Her family used to be very wealthy but with her parents' death she found out that she no longer has any money.  She must learn to support herself.  Morgan moves into an old house in Maine owned by a friend, and is trying to write, but is running into a brick wall.  Then she discovers a manuscript that she just falls in love with.  It is a story about a vampire.  Morgan decides to use this work.  Dante is a vampire on the run.  He is being hunted, and while running ends up at one of his hideaways which is beneath the house he used to own.  He discovers Morgan, and is oddly attracted to her, but at the same time furious because she is publishing his private diaries.  I enjoyed this novel and would recommend.	2004-03-11
US	31630498	R5055TN78LZZ1	0786012757	395410691	After Human	Books	2	8	9	N	N	Very Confusing. . .	While rummaging through the horror section at my bookstore I came across this book, and when I read the insert on the first couple of pages, it seemed like a very new and interesting novel.  After the first couple of chapters though I realized this was not my type of book.  I finished this story, but there is no way I can even remotely begin to describe what the story was about.  I found the story very confusing, and probably because all of the characters were so unlikeable you could care less about what happened to them.  Also, there was so much unecessary death by every character in the novel (unless you were a victim) that was described with such detachment, you felt nothing.<br />The story begins at the remains of a big party, and everyone at the party is dead.  You find out that there is a rogue vampire on the loose and he is killing entire groups of people.  He has killed before, but now he is making it very noticeable. There is a company/government entity (I have no idea what to call them) that handles these situations so the general public remains unaware. At this party there was a famous women who is missing, and that will make this party hard for this clean-up crew to cover up.  This women has been kidnapped by the vampire Lo who is the vamp on the killing rampage.   <br />The person in charge of this clean-up crew/organization is a women named Nikka who is very rich and very powerful.  (Thoughout the novel she is also terrorizing and killing people, but \\"her people\\" who are afraid of her, clean up after her).  Nikka enlists the aid of one of the last remaining vampires, Caleb, to find the killer.  Caleb is very old and could care less about humans.  He does look for Lo but while looking for Lo he is also on a killing spree killing people, and then calling a number so a clean up crew can get rid of the body. <br />This book jumps back and forth between characters and again, none of the characters are even remotely likeable.  Throw in the fact that the descriptions are awful (black leather, that type of thing) and you have a novel that makes no sense. <br />Maybe this novel is supposed to contain symbolism that we should be able to unravel.  Still, if you are a simple vampire reader like me, I think you may find this book a little difficult to follow.	2004-03-11
US	31630498	RT9444AYZ6ETB	0743467426	163102400	I Burn for You (Primes Series, Book 1)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Great Book	Wonderful vampire romance.  I would highly recommend.  I discovered Susan Sizemore's romance novel quite by accident, and immediately fell in love.  This is a contemporary romance.  Alec Raynard is a vampire, but he and his kind have integrated their way into human life.  They have to be very careful so their secret is not discovered.  Alex obtains a job as a body guard and meets Domini Lancer.  Domini Lancer and her grandfather own the business that employs Alec.  Alec finds himself attracted to Domini.  This story is about their growing relationship, and can Domini accept Alec.  I enjoyed this novel.	2004-03-11
US	31630498	R1MGPG53ZIBB9C	0553563343	755856344	Breath of Magic	Books	5	1	1	N	N	very very cute story!	Okay I really enjoyed this story.  It is definitely a light hearted read.  Still, I fell in love with the heroine, Arian.  Tristan Lennox is a billionaire who has always had an interest in magic.  He is a cynic though and is not even sure he believes it exists.  Still, he decides to run a contest that if anyone can show him \\"real magic\\" they will win one million dollars.  Arian Whitewood is a \\"white witch\\" and she's not even sure how talented she is.  Somehow she gets transported three hundred years into the future and ends up crashing into the building that Tristan Lennox owns.  He believes she has come to enter the contest and is trying to swindle a million dollars from him.  Arian, on the other hand, is trying to adjust to life in the present.  Tristan finds himself attracted to Arian and her innocence, but is she a true innocent or is she a fraud?   Wonderful story.  I would highly recommend.	2004-03-10
US	31630498	R23HHIUBNUBNHI	0345447840	383802287	The Surgeon (with Bonus Content): A Rizzoli & Isles Novel	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Excellent Story	I really enjoyed this story.  It is a murder mystery, but also a contemporary romance.  Dr. Catherine Cordell was almost killed by an attacker years ago.  She fought back and lived.  She moved to a new town and tried to forget what happened to her.  Suddenly, killings began to occur that seem like a recreation of what Dr. Cordell went through.  Dr. Cordell will have to work with Detective Thomas Moore to help solve this crime; while dealing with a growing attraction to Det. Moore even though she fears relationships since the attack.  I am making this sound like your typical murder mystery novel, but it isn't.  The characters are wonderful; the story flows and I would highly recommend.	2004-03-10
US	31630498	R2M8GF9UZPJ34I	0505525534	670242049	Love Bites (Argeneau Vampires, Book 2)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Cute Story	Okay can you say cute story.  Rachel Garett works the night shift at the morgue and one evening a dead man is brought in, or is he dead?  She can't seem to remember.  Etienne Argeneau is a 300 year old vampire, and he has one little problem, someone keeps trying to kill him.  With every attempt he ends up at the morgue and he keeps meeting this beautiful redhead.  Unfortunately, he has to erase her memory of him being there.  Then one time too many he is brought to the morgue and while he is waking  up, and yet again seeing Rachel, there is another attempt on his life, and Rachel is caught in the middle. Now Etienne has a choice.  Only once in his life does he get to bring a human over, and that human usually is a life mate.  If he brings over the wrong person, he could spend the rest of eternity alone.  Should he bring over Rachel?  She's cute and just saved his life but he will be alone for eternity if she doesn't agree to be his lifemate.   This is a very lighthearted story.  It's cute.  Etienne the vampire is not dark and depressing.  He has a mom who is just like anyone else's mom except she's going to live forever.  This is a very cute story and I would highly recommend.	2004-03-10
US	31630498	R1KC95JXD6XW5F	0671019716	811840260	Shades of Twilight	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Great Story	I liked this story and would highly recommend.  Roanna Davenport is the granddaughter of a very rich and powerful southern family.  She has lived with her grandmother since her parent's death. Roanna is skinny, not that pretty and has never quite fit in.  She doesn't mind because she has two great loves in her life, horses, and her older cousin Webb whom she has openly adored and loved forever.  Roanna also has another cousin Jessie.  Now Jessie is everything Roanna is not (beautiful, sexy, elegant, etc.)  In the end Jessie nabs Webb and Roanna nurses a broken heart.  Then out of the blue Jessie is murdered.  Who is the murderer?  Is it Roanna who has wanted Webb forever?  Is it Webb who just had an argument with Jessie?  No one is quite sure but the neighbors suspect Webb and in a fit of anger, after Webb is cleared by the police (mainly due to lack of evidence), he leaves town for good.  Now Roanna is left alone and she has to try and pull her life together without Webb.  But is Webb really gone for good?  I don't want to give too much away, but this is a good southern story, with the powerful matriach grandmother, all of the family's various and colorful relatives, and Roanna Davenport, a character you can't help but feel for.  I would highly recommend.	2004-03-10
US	31630498	R1GNNZCRF9H07L	006000181X	241249424	With Her Last Breath	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Average Story	This novel was just okay.  I like the premise.  Women on the run from dangerous man.  Goes to new town to start over.  Meets new guy who is still having trouble getting over his first wife.  While they adjust to each other, she still has to be wary of the \\"dangerous man\\" she ran from.  This novel did not flow well for me.  If I love a novel I can usually read it in one sitting.  I kept getting bored with the dialogue and sitting it down and then picking it up again.  I guess I was expecting a little more action in the novel.  Still, the characters were likeable, the story line was predictable but flowed.  I guess I would recommend.	2004-03-10
US	31630498	R3NJMTJIWK7H34	0553567772	295997143	Prince of Shadows	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Good &quot;Were&quot; Story	This is my first novel by Susan Krinard and it will not be my last.  I really enjoyed this \\"were romance.\\"  Alexandra Warrington first met \\"Shadow\\" her best friend and wolf when she was a young girl.  Now years later, she is physically and mentally scarred and returning to her grandparent's home to conduct research on \\"wolves.\\"  At her grandparent's home, Alex finds a hurt wolf and takes him home with her.  The next morning Alex discovers her wolf gone, and a man in her bed with no memory of who he is.  At first, Alex panics but she soon discovers that this man is in actuality her wolf.  Alexandra decides to help him discover what happened to him to make him lose his memory.  Also, during this time Alex finds herself growing attracted to him.  Still, she has to be careful because a murder has also occurred that has all the markings of a \\"large wolf.\\"  This is a very good story.  I connected with the heroine and really enjoyed her.  I would recommend.	2004-03-10
US	31630498	R1PEN5RIJSFK3G	0505524686	315765226	Midnight Embrace	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Light Vampire Romance	I collect vampire/lycanthorpe books and have quite a collection.  Because of this, I have quite a few Amanda Ashley novels.  All of her novels are very light reads.  The characters usually do not have that much depth, and it is a good quick read if you are looking for a light vampire romance.  Analisa is in a hospital dying when an \\"angel\\" comes and helps her to live.  Analisa's family is very poor and when she leaves the hospital, she has nowhere to go.  For some unknown reason she finds out she has a benefactor and is welcomed into the home of the mysterious Lord Alesandro.  Lord Alesandro is a mystery to Analisa.  He has money and has provided her a home, and she has no idea why.  Also, she never sees her mysterious benefactor.  Lord Alesandro is a vampire who is fighting a growing attraction to Analisa.   This was a very predictable vampire romance.  Still, I would recommend.	2004-03-10
US	31630498	RH2U12N27554N	0425190714	681392429	Killing Moon (The Moon Series, Book 1)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Excellent Were Novel	I have been reading and collecting vampire/lycanthorpe novels for years, and I really enjoyed this story.  It's pretty much a romance novel.  Ross Marshall is a private investigator and a werewolf.  While working on one of his investigations, he is badly hurt.  He makes it home, but passes out. Megan Sheridan is a researcher that Ross has hired to run some genetic tests.  She has no idea that these genetic tests concern the fact that Ross is a were.  Megan makes a quick trip to Ross' home and discovers him unconscious on his floor.  She helps him to recover and during this time feels a growing attraction to him.  Ross, while also attracted to Megan is afraid to get close to her due to problems in the werewolf gene.  At the same time the case Ross is investigating is becoming more dangerous and getting too close to Megan.  I really enjoyed this story and the characters and I would highly recommend.	2004-03-10
US	31630498	R3IMXJCWP4MWYZ	0060513640	301232992	One Night of Scandal (Fairleigh Sisters)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Good Romance	One Night of Scandal I enjoyed this story and the main characters.  I consider this type of book a \\"very light reading romance.\\"  Carlotta on the evening she is to make her debut decides to take a quick peek into her mysterious next door neighbor's house.  Her neighbor mistaking her for a \\"lady of the night\\" pulls her into his home and ends up giving her a kiss.  Unfortunately this kiss is seen by various members of Carlotta's family, and Carlotta is disgraced and forced into marriage with Marquis Hayden St. Clare.  Hayden is a recluse distancing himself from society after his wife's death.  In fact, many in society believe he has murdered his wife and have nicknamed him \\"The Murderous Marquis, \\" and are soon predicting that Carlotta will come to a dreadful end.  <br />Very predictable but cute and enjoyable novel, I would recommend.	2004-03-10
US	31630498	R1NYYNJROJAY1J	0553575538	65222879	Stealing Shadows: A Bishop/Special Crimes Unit Novel	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Good Story	I really enjoyed the initial premise of this story.  I tend to like serial killer stories and I also like stories concerning psychics.  I thought this one was quite effective starting out, but started to fall apart and become unbelievable near the end. Still, I enjoyed the characters, I enjoyed the story line, and I would recommend. <br />Cassie is a psychic who left her home and moved to a small town to escape her old life.  She was a very good psychic helping the police solve cases.  In one instance though the killer knew Cassie was in his mind, and fouled an attempt for the police to locate him.  At the same time this enabled him to kill a child.  This event pushed Cassie over the edge and she shies away from all psychic activity. Of course a killing occurs in her home town and Cassie knows the killer is near.  She has no choice but to go to the local police dept and obtain the help of a detective there, Ben.  Ben and Cassie have to work together to catch the killer and deal with their growing attraction to one another.  Predicable story, but likeable characters.  Like I said the only flaw in the story to me was the ending - it did not seem believable to me.	2004-03-10
US	31630498	R25I7Y8IP0LK6C	1551667126	797051934	Dead Ringer	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Good Book	This is my first book by this author.  I was pleasantly surprised.  What a different take on a contemporary romance novel!  How would you feel if the man you married and thought you were in love with disappeared one night while taking out the garbage?  Would you believe he abandoned you, or was he hurt, kidnapped, etc.?   What if, after worrying and thinking the worst, you find out you were actually married to an international terrorist?  This is the basic premise of this book.  Charlotte Gray's world gets turned upside down when first her husband disappears, and then to make matters worse, she finds out he is a terrorist.  Finally, when Charlotte thinks things can't possibly get any worse, she is kidnapped because of her husband. I truly liked the main heroine Charlotte Gray.  I found her a very believable and likeable character. I also liked the fact that she was a fighter.  In this book Charlotte has to come to terms with her husband and his life, and how to not only learn to trust again but learn to love again.  I would highly recommend this book.	2004-03-09
US	31630498	R1F4OV79YJRPO4	0886775027	290922881	Blood Trail: Victory Nelson Private Investigator: Otherworldly Crimes a Specialty	Books	5	13	13	N	N	This Entire Series is Excellent!  Highly Recommended	This is Tanya Huff's second novel in the \\"Blood Series.\\"  If you have not read Ms. Huff's entire series, be sure to obtain all five books.  They are excellent and you will not be disappointed!  (Blood Price; Blood Trial; Blood Lines; Blood Pact; Blood Debt). <BR>  <BR>In her first novel, Blood Price, you met ex-cop Vickie Nelson turned private investigator, who had to leave the police force due to a dibilitating eye condition which leaves her literally blind at night.  Quite by accident while working on a case, Vickie met romance writer/400 year old vampire Henry.  Henry helped Vickie with her first case by being her eyes at night.  Vickie and Henry are not only friends but there is an attraction beginning to blossom between them.  Also in the mix is Vickie's ex working partner, Mike Celluli, who she still sees as a friend and romantic interest.   This second book continues here.  <br />Vickie receives a telephone call from her friend Henry.  He has a new case for her if she decides to accept.  Vickie goes to Henry's apartment to meet her new clients, who turn out to be none other than werewolves.  It seems that someone has discovered the werewolves' secret (that they are indeed half human, half animal), and has been shooting and killing various family members. The various killings have all taken place at night while the weres are at their home (they own a farm in the London countryside).  As you can guess, the weres cannot go to the police in fear of their secret being discovered.  Vickie and Henry will have to go to the weres' farm and work together to help the weres discover the killer before any further family members are killed.   That's the basic premise of the story. <br />I have noticed that many vampire fans of early Laurell Hamilton's Anita Blake series have always recommended Tanya Huff's series as another excellent vampire series.  I have to agree.  I collect all types of vampire novels, and next to the early Anita Blake's work, this series is just as good.  You will not be disappointed.  I highly recommend.	2004-03-09
US	31630498	RDS09KCCVTMSM	0515134481	4008031	Circus of the Damned (Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter, Book 3)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Excellent!	This is Laurell Hamilton's third book from her amazing vampire series (be warned after about book 5 the storyline becomes a soap opera).  Also, in my opinion the later novels are just plain awful. <br />Still, as this is the third book in the series, in terms of great vampire fiction, this can't be beat.  Meet Ms. Anita Blake, necromancer (she raises zombies) and vampire executioner.  She is 5\\"3\\", packs all different types of weapons, and is pretty darn tough.  She is also caring and very loyal.   She works part-time for her money hungry boss raising zombies and is also on loan to the police department helping them solve murders.  Anita's world is becoming difficult.  First, she has Jean-Claude, the Master Vampire of the City, who wants to make Anita his human servant (even though Anita hates monsters and has no intention of becoming a human servant to anyone).  What's worse is that even though Jean Claude drives her crazy, she is attracted to him.  You are also introduced to Richard, a very handsome man that Anita is attracted to, but she has no idea why he would want to hang out with Jean-Claude.  <br />Anita gets pulled into a new case by the police dept.  There has been a murder, with a body drained dry by as many as five vampires at one time.  The problem with this is that vampires don't hunt together unless a master vampire is involved.  As Jean Claude is the only master in town next to another vampire that owns a church, Anita has her work cut out in trying to determine who the killer is, why still trying to remain alive.  <BR>This is an excellent excellent story.  Very highly recommended.	2004-03-09
US	31630498	R2VLMKX2MGBVWW	0380728133	61850312	Bloodsucking Fiends: A Love Story	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Great Book	I am a collector of vampire/lycanthorpe novels.  I have been collecting them for years.  An employee at my local bookstore suggested this novel by Christopher Moore.  I must admit this is definitely a different take on becoming a vampire.  <br />Jody is leaving work one night when she is dragged into an alley, attacked by an unknown person, and left under a trash can with a blouse full of money.  Once Jody awakens and makes her way home to her wimpy and useless boyfriend, she finds out that she has become a vampire.  Now Jody does not know the first thing about being a vampire or how she should handle this situation.  Also, if that's not enough, she has some crazy calling her who seems to know what she is.  Lucky for Jody, she runs into C. Thomas Flood, an innocent from Indiana who just moved to the big city to become a writer.   And Jody will definitely need Thomas, as she will need all the help she can get while she adjusts to her new life and stay clear of the police as bloodless bodies start to pop up in her neighborhood. <br />I found this book very cute and funny and definitely a different take on the vampire lifestyle.  Although near the end I felt the story line was a tad bid monotonous, I would still highly recommend.  A fun quick read.	2004-03-09
US	31630498	R3BBKIJ26BIUA9	0345453409	457341957	Dying to Please: A Novel	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Good Book	I enjoyed this book.  The characters connected and the story flowed.  If you are a Linda Howard fan, you know the formula of her novels (cute heroine, hunky hero and a little drama), but due to Linda Howard's exceptional writing, you always have an enjoyable story. <br />Sarah Stevens is a butler, but not just any type of butler.  She makes over $100,000 a year, and only works for top notch clientele.  She is also not only a butler but a trained body guard.  Sarah works for a retired judge who she loves and considers family.  One night during an attempted robbery, Sarah uses her training and skills to stop the burglers.  When the police arrive to apprehend the suspects, she meets Detective Cahill, and there is an instant attraction, although neither will acknowledge it.   This foiled burglery attempt also attracts the local news media who do a \\"human interest\\" piece on Sarah.  This newscast attracts the attention of a stalker, who later turns killer, and the story flows from there.  Of course, Sarah will have to come into contact again with hunky Detective Cahill and both of them will have to work together to find this killer.  I enjoyed this story and would highly recommend.	2004-03-09
US	31630498	RZYKOV0QQOKS4	0380795116	395793792	Baby, I'm Yours	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Cute Story	If you are looking for a very lighthearted read, that you can read in one sitting, than this is your novel.  Catherine has a twin sister whose middle name is trouble.  Catherine's twin shows up at her home, and the very next day Catherine is dragged from her house by Sam McKade, a bounty hunter on the lookout for her twin.  Sam does not believe that he has the wrong girl.  There is no way that there are two identical long legged red heads.  This is pretty much a road trip story as Sam fights his attraction for his prisoner while returning her to town to face her charges.  Now throw into the mix the local mob who wants her sister dead, and you have a very cute story.	2004-03-09
US	31630498	R2NYVX2GN5NUN1	0743453921	93588971	Kill and Tell : A Novel	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Good Story	This is your standard Linda Howard storyline.  Heroine meets hero, she is being hunted, hero must help keep her alive.  <br />Karen receives a package from her estranged father, a homeless vietnam veteran. Around this same time, she also receives a telephone call from the police in New Orleans informing her that her father was murdered.  Karen has to find the strength to pull herself together enough to go to New Orleans to identify her father's body, pay her last respects and find him a final resting place. When Karen arrives in New Orleans she meets Detective Marc Chastain who takes one look at her and her \\"cold\\" attitude and decides she is one of those \\"unfeeling, uncaring, selfish\\" types who could care less about family or the fact that her father is dead.  As Marc helps Karen make an identification of her father, he realizes he has made an error and Karen is actually very hurt but hiding behind a touch facade.  He is touched and very attracted to her.  <br />Karen soon finds out that she has even more problems than her father's murder, because someone is trying to kill her.  Karen must work with Marc to track down the murderer before she is the next victim.<br />This was a good solid story.  I read in one sitting.  I would recommend.	2004-03-09
US	31630498	R24FQHM7LX5PAU	0515134449	632637589	The Laughing Corpse (Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter, Book 2)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Excellent Vampire Series	This is the second novel in an excellent vampire series.  Welcome to the world of Anita Blake, necromancer (zombie raiser) and vampire executioner.  She is a 5'3\\" dynamo with a variety of weapons that would make Rambo proud.  She is tough, but fair, and her world is very very interesting.  <br />Anita's money hungry boss has made an appointment at a client's home.  This client would like a zombie raised.  Once Anita arrives and notices the weapons carried by her client's bodyguards, and the type of bodyguards this client has, she realizes this is not your ordinary \\"I want my attorneys to review my husband's will\\" so please raise him as a zombie appointment.  <br />Anita's boss is offered a tremendous amount of money to have anita raise a very old zombie.  This zombie is so old that the only way to raise him would be to take a human life, and to use human blood.  Anita turns this offer down, but this client will not take no for an answer.  Also, Anita is pulled into yet another police investigation when she helps the police investigate a case where entire families are being murdered. <br />This novel has plenty of action and the story lines and characters flows beautifully. This novel is EXCELLENT and I would highly recommend!	2004-03-09
US	31630498	R1CAABS6VTGRQ	0452283485	1013337	Bitten (Otherworld)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Great story	Okay I am a huge vampire/lycanthorpe fan, and to any fan of those \\"other worldly beings\\" I would highly recommend this novel.  I enjoyed the story line.  You truly felt for the main character Elena.  You understood all of her motives throughout the book.  You understood her dreams and especially her reactions to the loss of her dreams.  I truly enjoyed all of the various characters with all of their flaws.  I would recommend this book to all!	2004-03-08
US	31630498	R1YI1LAUAPRPUW	0671019759	12019675	Dream Man	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Great Linda Howard Novel	Linda Howard is one of my favorite authors.  I will pretty much read anything with her name on it.  Still, you have to like her style of writing.  The story lines tend to change, but the basic premise is always there.  Heroine meets man, he usually has a few issues, and they must learn to love and trust each other with whatever plot Ms. Howard has thrown in.  I personally like the way she maneuvers these types of novels.  <br />In Dream Man you meet Marlie Keen who is a psychic trying to live a quiet life away from everyone she knows.  She is very much a loner with no friends or relatives that she enteracts with.  Although Marlee used to work in the psychic field, she left because she was almost killed while helping the police solve a crime years ago.  Guess what?  Marlie witnesses \\"psychicly\\" a murder and feels compelled to go to the police.  At the police station she meets hunky Detective Dane.  Dane is your basic gruff workaholic cop who at first believes Marlie is nuts, and then believes she's a suspect.  As he follows her around town and has her investigated, he ultimately comes to believe in her ability.  Now he will have to work with her as they try to track down a serial killer.  The characters are good, the story line flows and I read this book in one sitting.  I would recommend.	2004-03-08
US	31630498	R27MAMCIIKIBIC	0441009239	302398899	Living Dead in Dallas (Sookie Stackhouse/True Blood, Book 2)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The best vampire series yet!	I am a huge romance fan and a huge horror fan. I discovered Charlaine Harris' dead series quite by accident and immediately fell in love. This second book continues where the first one left off. If you have not read her first novel, be sure to read &quot;Dead Until Dark&quot; first and after reading this one, finish with &quot;Club Dead.&quot; <br />I have fallen in love with all of the characters in this series. There's Sookie, a cocktail waitress in a small southern town.  Sookie is a southern girl with plenty of small time southern charm.  She also has a huge heart which keeps her in trouble, especially since she just happens to be dating a vampire named Bill.  Oh and one other thing Sookie can also read minds which makes her very interesting to Bill's boss and pulls her into Bill's world.  This series is a definite keeper! This book and the entire series gets 5 stars.	2004-03-08
US	31630498	R2MKVKIALR4P6V	034544356X	336353882	Seduced by Moonlight (Meredith Gentry, Book 3)	Books	1	5	6	N	N	Disappointed	I have been waiting for Ms. Hamilton's new series, since the downward decline of Anita Blake into slutsville.  And when the series finally came out, it's about - what else - sex and more sex.  Although I know there are quite a few fans of this series, I bought this book, flipped through it, and returned it the next day.  This is not a series I will be following.  For those that enjoy this type of novel - go for it.  I will be looking elsewhere.	2004-03-08
US	31630498	R3R7PXONUAF8F3	0886774713	727303671	Blood Price: Victory Nelson Private Investigator: Otherworldly Crimes a Specialty	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Excellent Series	Like many others drawn to sci-fi/horror novels.  I picked up this book after the recommendation of many on this site who compared it to the Anita Blake series.  This series is definitely up there.  It is a total of 5 books, and this is the first in the series. <br />Vicki is an ex cop turned private investigator who had to leave the police force because she is losing her night vision.  One night at the subway station Vicki finds a murdered body, and even though she has left the force, she feels compelled to investigate this crime (and it helps that she is finally hired to investigate the crime).  While investigating she meets Henry, a romance writer who is also a vampire.  Henry has his own reasons to investigate the crime.  Vicki is unable to see at night.  Henry is unable to go out during the day.  They both have to work together to discover the murderer.  <br />I do not want to give too much away, but if you are looking for a good vampire series, give this one a try.  You will not be disappointed.  If you would like the exact order of the series, it is Blood Price, Blood Trail, Blood Lines, Blood Pact and Blood Debt.  This book and the entire series gets five stars!	2004-03-08
US	31630498	R1CUB5IVV3OK55	0425188361	549489959	Cerulean Sins (Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter, Book 11)	Books	2	12	15	N	N	Big Time Disappointment	I am a big fan of vampire/lycanthorpe novels.  I have quite a collection I have gathered over the years.  Of course no collection is complete without the Anita Blake series by Laurell Hamilton.  I still remember when I first read \\"Guilty Pleasures\\" I fell in love instantly with Anita Blake's world.  How she worked part-time with the police dept., how she raised zombies for her money hungry boss; and even though she was tough as nails, she still had a heart and felt for those around her.  Once I read the first novel, I immediately went and bought the entire series.  Now as a fan of vampire novels, the first four novels cannot be beat.  But once you reach no. 5 on, you start to feel as if you are part of a very bad soap opera.  Still, there's always hope so I continue to buy her series.<br />This latest novel is downright \\"disappointing.\\"  Anita is pretty much a whore.  This novel should not be in the vampire category or even in the romance category, it should be in the xxx rated/erotica category.  This novel is not about romance and not about vampires.  It's about orgy sex, sex with strangers in showers, sex standing up, sex in bed, and sex with anyone who is in the room when everyone else she usually has sex with is not in the room.  That's pretty much the plot for 400+ pages, and I am not exaggerating.  <br />And what's worse, throughout the novel you are led to believe while she's sleeping her way through every male in the novel, that this is not her fault.  Also, when she's not having sex, there's even one point in the novel where she actually has the nerve to whine about how the one true love in her life \\"Richard the werewolf\\" abandoned her.  If you have been reading this series you would know that Richard (who she was engaged to marry) became angry with Anita for sleeping with Jean Claude (a vampire) after she ran from Richard because he killed one of his biggest enemies, Marcus (who Anita had been begging Richard to kill for at least two previous novels).  Thenight he kills Marcus as soon as she leaves the man she is going to marry she sleeps with another man.  So they break up.  And from then on they have sex and break up again and between their sex and break ups Anita finds more men to have sex with.  <br />Finally, Richard walked out on Anita when he wouldn't allow her to feed on him.  And Anita whines about this even though she doesn't allow anyone (including Jean Claude) to feed on her.  Of course, as usual with Anita her values changes depending on who she is having sex with, and once its acceptable to her, everyone else around her should follow her lead and think its acceptable too.  <br />What I loved initially about this series was Anita's strength of character.  She had a huge inner battle to face as she fought the monsters while not trying to become a monster.  Very understable.  My empathy for Anita has dissipated by the number of times she has had sex with strange men.  She is not a likeable heroine anymore.  I hope Laurell decides to start a brand new vampire series.  This one had disappointedly run out of steam.  <br />If you are looking for a good \\"fresh\\" vampire series try Charlaine Harris' Dead Series (Dead Until Dark; Living Dead In Dallas and Club Dead).  This has a likeable heroine with a believable heart of gold.	2004-03-08
US	31630498	R3KO2AG4E22QND	0441008534	486021067	Dead Until Dark  (Sookie Stackhouse/True Blood, Book 1)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	My Favorite Vampire Series	Okay I'm a huge vampire fan. I discovered Charlaine Harris' dead series quite by accident and immediately fell in love. If you are a fan of the supernatural or romance, you will not be disappointed.  Very highly recommended!  Be sure to read this series in order.  This novel is the first in her series.  Read this one first, following with \\"Living Dead in Dallas\\" and finally \\"Club Dead\\". <br />I almost didn't pick up this series due to the fact it was termed \\"lighthearted read,\\" and I'm not a big fan of the newest craze of \\"comedy vampire books\\" on the market. I like my vampires with a little more depth and mystery.  This series gives you that.  <br />The heroine is Sookie, a southern gal in a small town.  Sookie likes her simple life.  She's a waitress and has no complaints except maybe the fact that she can read minds.  Now the only problem with reading minds is that she pretty much knows just what most of the men who want to date her are thinking.  And the men she has dated so far are not the deepest thinkers. <br />Now enter new into town the vampire Bill.  Sookie has been waiting to meet one of the new vampires that came out \\"of the closet\\" once bottled blood came on the market.  She has been longing to meet one of these vampires but being in a small town Bill is the first.  She's already fascinated with Bill and then on top of that Sookie finds out she can't read Bills mind.  The story goes on from there.  I don't want to give too much away.  Let's just say \\"its wonderful.\\"  <br />I must make a comment on the comparison of this series with the Anita Blake series.  I have read quite a few disgruntled reviews comparing this series with Laurell Hamilton's and terming this a \\"copycat series.\\"  I disagree completely!  I am also a big Anita Blake fan (but I must be truthful - only the first four and from there it went downhill).  You can say in comparison that the worlds in both storylines accept the fact of vampires and werewolves and other otherworldly creatures, but this series IS NOT the same, and stands on its own.  This series truly adds a southern charm all its own.  I enjoyed Sookie the down home girl with all of her Southern charm!  This is no way comapares to the Anite Blake series which is pretty \\"dark and depressing.\\" <br />This book and the entire series gets 5 stars.	2004-03-08
US	31630498	ROS5DVFQ9BQ6W	1551667339	779263354	White Lies	Books	4	50	55	N	N	Cute Story	This was a cute story.  It's your basic Linda Howard story line. (You know the one -- strong woman with a few issues and of course she can't find a man to save her life.  Then enter hunky man with his own set of emotional issues.)  Still the story flowed and I would recommend it to any contemporary romance fan in for a quick read.  The story is basically about a burned out \\"workaholic woman\\" who is informed by the FBI that her husband was in a terrible accident.  The story continues with the scenario of \\"is he really her husband?\\" \\"and just how far will she go to protect this man who may or may not be her husband?\\"  Do not want to give too much away, but you get the gist of the story line.  Still I enjoyed the novel - very quick and enjoyable read.	2004-03-08
US	31630498	RFHYGUCQ9N1N8	0671034022	378094364	Mercy	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Good Story	I am a Julie Garwood fan, and while I enjoyed this novel, I have to admit that it had to grow on me.  When I first read it, I stopped a few times because I felt the story line was a tad bit slow.  Still I forced my way through it and the story picked up speed and ended up a wonderful thriller.  Justice Attorney Theo gets seriously ill at a party and passes out right before throwing up on beautiful Dr. Michelle Renard.  Michelle is a surgeon and saves Theo's life.  Theo is instantly attracted to Michelle and the sparks fly and the beginning of a romance ensues.  What Theo learns is that Michelle, even though she is this big city doctor, actually comes from a very poor small town and is returning to that town to open a practice.  Theo, who is actually very burned out at his job and even though he doesn't realize it, big city life, visits Michelle in her hometown to get to know her better.  What neither realizes though is that there is a secret organization that wants Michelle dead.  This organization has also followed Michelle to her hometown.   The story picks up from there.  You meet all the good hearted but poor town folk while being immersed into Michelle's small time life.  I enjoyed the book.  Out of Julie's contemporary novels, this is probably my least favorite, but still a very good read.  I would recommend.	2004-03-08
US	31630498	R25867B7PKITB9	0373484933	279978210	A Game Of Chance	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Great Story	Linda Howard is one of my favorite authors.  I will pretty much read anything with her name on it.  Still, you have to like her style of writing.  The story lines tend to change, but the basic premise is always there.  Heroine meets man, he usually has a few issues, and they must learn to love and trust each other with whatever plot Ms. Howard has thrown in.  I personally like the way she maneuvers these types of novels.  <br />I think Game of Chance is an especially good Linda Howard story.  Meet Sunny Miller.  She has had a very tough life.  She is living on her own with no relatives or even friends.  Her mother is dead, and she has only one person in her life that she contacts by cell phone for a couple of minutes a week.   She has never had the luxury of settling down or trusting anyone.  She can't afford trust, her father is a world renown terrorist and looking for her.  To keep from staying in one location, Sunny has a job as a courier, delivering packages (for very important clients) from one location to another.  During one of Sunny's deliveries, she is robbed.  Due to the nature of the job, Sunny is investigated and comes to the attention of CIA agent Chance MacKenzie.  Chance is a top agent in his field and thinks Sunny is working with her father.  The plan is to meet her and to either have her learn to trust him enough to divulge her secrets or spend enough time with her that she will make a mistake so the CIA can catch both her and her father.<br />Take one very wounded  heroine afraid to trust, throw in a CIA agent who has his own set of trust issues (even though he is attracted to Sunny), and you have the basic plot of this book.  It's simple, it's straight forward, it works.  You have an empathy for the character of Sunny and all that she goes through.  Quick read; good story; I would recommend.	2004-03-08
US	31630498	R1WFBXP08MXSL0	0671019759	12019675	Dream Man	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Great Linda Howard Novel - High Recommendation	I am a Linda Howard fan and have read most of her books.  This was a great contemporary romance novel.  I would highly reocmmend.	2004-03-08
US	31630498	R3KTS9TE0X3E4G	042518756X	453010069	Guilty Pleasures (Anita Blake Vampire Hunter)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Truly one of the vampire classics	I am a collector of other world books (vampires, lycanthorpes, wizards, and other-worldly beings).  I truly enjoy these types of novels.  I was recommended Guilty Pleasures at the bookstore, and all I can say is you will not be disappointed.<br />Meet Anita Blake, necromancer.  She raises zombies for a living and works part time for the police dept. solving crimes involving &quot;other worldly beings.&quot;  This is the first book in an excellent series.  You will not be disappointed!  (For those of you new to the series, be warned, the first four novels are excellent.  Novels 5 on start to go downhill, and around novel 8 they crash and burn and turn into a porn fest (which is a pity).  Those who have read the series know exactly what I speak of.  This Anita that you will discover in this novel, is tough, but humanistic.  You will love this character!  This book is highly recommended!	2004-03-08
US	31630498	R2A0JGS66ESPP0	0671034006	427650271	Heartbreaker	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Great Thriller	Now everyone has their favorite author, one of mine is Julie Garwood.  I have enjoyed her historical romances immensely and now she has switched to more contemporary fare.  Father Madden, while taking confession, receives a horrible message from a madman.  He tells Father Madden he is a killer and he has already chosen his next victim, Father Madden's sister, Laurant.  Father Madden telephones the only person he knows who can help protect his sister, one of his best friends, FBI agent, Nick Buchanan.  Nick Buchanan meets Laurant and while trying to protect her, and stay one step ahead of the killer, finds himself very attracted to her.  This is your typical \\"hunted heroine\\" novel, with the hunky FBI agent keeping the heroine safe while they are on the run, and a demented killer stalking their every move.  Still, the story flows, the characters connect, and I loved the story.  I would highly recommend.	2004-03-08
US	31630498	RDN0DXQZNHPBY	0451457811	823834280	Storm Front (Dresden Files)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A Winner!	Okay I fell in love with this book.  I am a usual fan of vampires and werewolves and that sort of thing, but while hunting in the sci-fi section of my store, I came across this book.  All I can say is I just fell in love with Harry Dresdon, wizard extraordinare!  He made me smile, he made me laugh, and he kept his cool in all kinds of situations.  After finishing the first novel, I immediately went out and bought the remaining series.  <br />The story revolves around Harry Dresdon, a wizard.  He's a very good wizard, but since the main stream public is not really interested in a real wizard, business is pretty much up and down with Harry struggling to pay the rent.  On a good note, Harry also works with the local police dept when crimes involving his expertise are needed.  Harry is pulled in by the police to check out a double murder that was done by black magic, and at that point the fun begins.  Throw in the local mob; a nosy reporter; faery snitches; and a skull named Bob, and you have the best wizard story of them all!	2004-03-08
US	31630498	RBKBRTPB0MGNS	0671027581	305895234	Open Season	Books	5	4	4	N	N	One of my favorites!	Open Season - Linda Howard is one of my favorite authors.  This story to me was a little different than her usual writing style.  I found myself smiling and even laughing outright while reading the antics of Ms. Daisy Miner.  This is a heroine you can't help but adore! <br />Meet Ms. Daisy Miner, the librarian in a small town.  She's in her late thirties, lives with her mom and aunt, dresses like an old maid, and is pretty much considered \\"on the shelf\\" in her mind and in the town's mind too.  Daisy has finally decided that instead of giving up, she is going after what she wants, and what she wants is a man, and not just any man, but the marrying kind.  Daisy is on the hunt for a husband!  First Daisy has to figure out how to accomplish this.  She realizes that first she needs to change her image, her \\"old fashioned\\" clothes are not going to cut it.  With the advice of her mom and aunt, Daisy obtains the help of a friend who helps to whip her into shape in terms of her hair, makeup and clothes.  Now, the hunt and the fun begins. Daisy decides that if you want to meet a man you have to go where the men will be, and that's the neighborhood bars and dance clubs.  Now throw into this mix, tough ex city cop Chief Russo who is now the small time sheriff in this town.  These two keep bumping into each other in town and the results are hilarious.  All of Chief Russo's city experience has not prepared him for the small town innocence of Daisy.  The dialogue is witty, and you can't help but fall in love with Daisy's innocence, and Chief Russo's interaction with her.  I do not want to give this story away, but it truly is a cute fun novel that will keep you chuckling until the end.  I would highly recommend.	2004-03-08
US	31630498	R16OGZY7A3FAQ1	0743482883	142020743	Mr. Perfect	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Not One of My Favorite Linda Howard Books	I am a major Linda Howard fan and have almost all of her novels.  This book I actually found to be very monotonous. The various characters did not \\"click\\" for me like they usually do in a Linda Howard book.  I found the characters tedious and one-dimensional, the story line absurd and I knew who the killer was immediately.  Would I recommend this book?  If you are a Linda Howard fan and have come to expect a certain quality in her stories, I would say skip this one.      Jaine and three of her co-workers devise \\"the list\\" of the perfect man while having drinks at a bar one night.  This list somehow makes it way from their table to work to the internet and finally makes them overnight hits on local tv shows, etc.  At the same time Jaine has moved into her new home which she loves except for her grouchy next door neighbor who we later learn is a cop.    Once her friends start dying and they figure out its because of the list, its up to Sam to keep Jaine safe.      I never have high expectations for plots when reading a romance.  It's all about the romance, but the characters in this story were more annoying then anything.	2004-03-07
US	31630498	R1JPTJUI0LZ7PZ	0425191788	301916690	Sunshine	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A beautiful vampire story	I am an avid fan of all types of fiction novels (mystery, horror, sci-fi, romance, etc.), but I have a special affinity for novels about other worldly creatures especially vampires and lyncanthorpes.  I have been reading these types of novels for years, and have quite a collection.  I can truthfully say that I immediately fell in love with this story and the characters.  I could not put this book down and was quite saddened when I knew I was near the end.  This truly is one of the best vampire novels I have ever read, and even if you are not a vampire fan, you will still fall in love with this story and the various characters.  I am keeping my fingers crossed and hoping for a sequel. <br />This story centers around Sunshine whose parents own a coffeehouse in a not so great section of town.  This coffeehouse contains quite a few interesting and likeable characters, from those who also work at the coffeehouse, to those who visit and make it their home away from home.  Being in a bad section of town this coffeehouse picks up quite a few characters, some of whom are not quite human.  In this world of Sunshine's (which is right after a huge war where there is a fear that vampires will take over the world in the next century), there's quite a bit of magic.  It's a world where everyone owns a magic charm or ward either on their person, in their house and even on their car.  These wards guard against many types of things, but mainly the threat of vampires who are considered enemy no. 1.  <br />Take this one sweet girl who decides to take a drive to a lake at night, and ends up chained next to everyone's biggest fear, a vampire.  What follows next is how her life changes from that night on.  I am not going to give any more of this story away.  I just hate reading a review where too much of the story is given away before you have even bought the book. I will just say I highly recommend this book to all.	2004-03-06
US	31630498	R2B2UT5UGMD7XW	0441010512	149624845	Club Dead (Sookie Stackhouse/True Blood, Book 3)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Excellent Vampire Series	I am a huge romance fan and a huge horror fan.  I discovered Charlaine Harris' dead series quite by accident and immediately fell in love.  This third book continues where the first two left off.  If you have not read her first two novels, be sure to read &quot;Dead Until Dark&quot; first and then &quot;Living Dead in Dallas&quot;.  I just fell in love with all of her various characters.  In this book, she introduces a new love interest in Sookie's life, Alicie, a werewolf.  The only problem with this book is that it sort of leaves you hanging, but I guess that means I'll just have to wait for her next novel.  To any fans of vampire romance novels - you have to read all three novels.  I almost didn't try this book because other reviewers mentioned that this series was lighthearted, and even though it is not deep and dark like many vampire romances, it still has all the supernatural characters and romance and wonderful characters that I love in all of my horror romance novels.  This book and the entire series gets 5 stars.	2004-01-28
US	31630498	R1ZRM439PI5VBV	0553581554	167587840	The Killing Game: An Eve Duncan Forensics Thriller	Books	2	1	1	N	N	Could be a little more believable	I initially liked the story line and the characters, but found myself getting a little disgusted with the book as I became more involved in the story.  The author could have tried to make the situations the characters found themselves in a little more believable.  <br />For example, serial killer has killed 9 people and is calling Eve on her digital phone; supposedly they can't trace the calls nor does anyone even bother to attempt to record the calls between her and the killer.  After the character Eve has long dialogues with the killer, then gives her emotional outbursts to those around her, she finally tells everyone an abbreviated version of what the call was about.  (yeah-right - i think the FBI would find a way to record the call from her cell phone).  <br />Another portion in the book - the house in the middle of nowhere that Eve is staying at is being watched by the FBI, the killer is still able to leave a package at her front door step.  (how was this accomplished?  by becoming a ghost and moving in thin air???)  <br />Finally, in the middle of all of this is Eve talking to her dead daughter Bonnie who clearly tells her the bones aren't hers.  Bonnie tells her shes a ghost, but when Eve wakes up it must have been a dream. .  <br />This books wants you to assume too many illogical movements and attitudes of the key players.	2003-09-22
