US	31660136	R1TYFCL76D4JOG	1400061016	696961016	The Godfather Returns	Books	1	3	6	N	N	What's good about this book is this....	It's a whole heck of a lot better than the Godfather III script!   <br /> <br />Unfortunately, that is all the good that I can say about this book.  I admit to not being anxious to read this book since I figured it would be so far inferior to the original, but the author turned the story line in a way that exceeded my low expectations.  That said, I still have to say it was better than the last Godfather movie.  In that film, I was rooting for someone to kill off the godfather's daughter.  As I recall, the killer was someone hired by the Actors Guild.   <br /> <br />There is nothing more to say about this book.  It's only too bad that the Puzo family didn't respect their predecessor's advice and left the book alone.  The original still sells, so they are making enough in royalties.  Like the third movie sequel, just pretend that it never happened and enjoy the original.  <br />	2005-10-06
US	31660136	R1YPIH9N625AKY	0967415306	757677631	What If Everything You Thought You Knew About AIDS Was Wrong?	Books	1	68	103	N	N	Epilogue:  Her child is DEAD from Aids	How dangerous is this book and the author?  Her three year old daughter is now dead from Aids.  Read about it in the L.A. Times 24 September 2005.  All because the author's (and her husband's) anti-science ideas of HIV as espoused in this book.   <br /> <br />Has their daughter's death changed their attitudes on HIV testing?  No, the author wouldn't want to take any responsibility, so she set up a web cite dedicated to how much she \\"loves\\" (sorry, make that \\"loved\\") her daughter.  However, she still claims that her daughter did not die of Aids! <br /> <br />I work as a child abuse/neglect specialist.  The doctors involved (one of whom served three years criminal probation) are fully responsible.  The Los Angeles child protective services are also responsible for failing to act correctly on an earlier medical neglect complaint (the parents' failure to test the child for Aids/HIV).  Those of you who supported this author by buying her book of half-brained ideas and thereby also endangering other children are too responsible.  But, most responsible for this little girl's death are the father and mother.  For the glory of publicity and book sales, they sacrificed the child. <br />	2005-09-24
US	31660136	RSDHN2WUG8VZI	0312355033	531669346	Sudoku Easy to Hard Presented by Will Shortz, Volume 2: 100 Wordless Crossword Puzzles	Books	5	130	131	N	N	Good thing I work for the Government!	Well, I do work for the government, but I am just sort of kidding about doing these puzzles during government time.  This book by Will Shortz is very well presented.  I looked at five other books before settling on this and I am very pleased (when I am not breaking my pencil in despair).   <br /> <br />Most important to me in buying a Sudoku book was that the puzzles must be large enough so that I can easily write in the squares without jumbling the numbers.  When I do them from the newspaper, I usually enlarge the puzzle on the copy machine.   <br /> <br />This book seems to do the best in presenting puzzles that are easy on which to write.  In addition, there are a good number of puzzles (100) ranging from easy to \\"very challenging.\\"  Some of the easy ones are tough.  I just completed the puzzle that appears on the book's cover.  This took me two tries and there is no answer key for that one, so keep trying.  All the other puzzles in the book contain answers in the back.  As with the other Sudoku books, this one contains a brief history of the game and some tips.   <br /> <br />There isn't much else that can differentiate one Sudoku book from another.  But, I would certainly buy another from this author when it is offered.  Even though it is a solitary game, my family/friends have a laugh watching my frustration and successes.   <br />	2005-08-15
US	31660136	R3EADTJAS0O73M	0316073032	596259208	Little Scarlet: An Easy Rawlins Mystery	Books	3	5	7	N	N	Interesting story line, but Easy is getting too old.	This is my third Easy Rollins book and my fourth book for this author.  I tremendously enjoyed Devil in a Blue Dress, and Red Death was fine.  I looked forward to reading this new book since it centered on the 1965 Watts riots in Los Angeles.  I was a child in LA during those riots and I vividly remember the violence, soldiers, and the neighborhood fear.   <br /> <br />In this book, the police recruit Rollins to find the white killer of a black woman before the death becomes public knowledge and sparks further violence (probably not too far fetched a premise given how on edge the government and people were at the time).   <br /> <br />I liked the way the story turned and the pace was fine since it was a rather short book.  The book is 300 pages, but the printer was very generous with the type setting, and it was more like a 200 page novel.  I didn't read the previous Easy book, so I'm not sure as to what was new in his life and what was from the earlier book(s).  However, Easy is now more domesticated, but still feeling temptations.   <br /> <br />What I did not like about the book is first, this book has only a marginal use of the Mouse character that was the energy behind the Blue Dress book and movie.  Easy Rollins by himself is not as able to carry the story line.  In addition, the author continues to insert his form of philosophy into his main characters about race and life in general that, to me, is very elementary.  However, the author presents his philosophizing as if it were an oracle from Delphi.   <br /> <br />I also cannot understand why Rollins still has so many thoughts of wanting to kill people.  It was acceptable in the novels when he was fresh from the war, but it's time to give it a rest.  The book had two historical errors.  One is referring to the Gemini 5 space mission as the space shuttle (this may have been the printers fault), and the other was using the telephone answering machine as if it were a well known device by the average person (it was invented before the 1960's, but wasn't generally marketed until the 1970's).   <br /> <br />In sum, I would recommend this book for those interested in a mystery and a very easy summer read.  But, I think that the Easy Rollins stories have peaked and should be retired.   <br />	2005-08-08
US	31660136	R1VQQ458MK98L6	0395913624	964883413	Orphan Train Rider: One Boy's True Story	Books	5	18	20	N	N	Good for Ages 9 and older, and for the family to read together.	I try to find books for reading with my children.  In this case, to read with my daughter who will enter the fourth grade.  This book was on her summer reading list, and I'm glad we read it.  This is a true story of a boy orphaned by the death of his mother and his father's ceding him and his siblings to the Children's Aid Society in New York State.  This was a time in America that preceded government child welfare agencies for abused/neglected children.  Instead, children were institutionalized in large orphanages (often called asylums) and eventually many were placed on trains to find homes with town people who would meet the trains at various stops.      The book uses the story of a young boy with two of his younger brothers sent on an orphan train and eventually being picked by families in Texas.  Lee was the oldest and took the longest to find a good family.      The book gives information about the orphan train children in general and the reasons for their coming about.  The author gives credit to the Children's Aid Society that was prominent in organizing these trains and notes that many of these children grew to become accomplished members in society.  The book, however, also shows that not all these children were so lucky and they faced continued abuse at the hands of their adopted parents, and ridicule by school mates.      As a person who has worked extensively in the child welfare system, I found the book to be very relevant and a better way of explaining to my daughter the reason for my work. [...]    This book would be excellent for children in foster care even though they are not exactly in the same position as orphan train riders.  They still could easily empathize with the children in this story.  There is also an honest, hopeful comment by the adult Lee of perseverance and determination to overcome the circumstances in life even from those who never did find an accepting family.  Unfortunately, this too is relevant for many youths in the current foster care system.	2005-07-18
US	31660136	R1JJ60TGCRGJSP	0618551174	80843229	Cinderella Man: James Braddock, Max Baer, and the Greatest Upset in Boxing History	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Schaap scores a knockout!	In his first book and following in his father's footsteps (Dick Schaap), Jeremy Schaap gives us the almost unbelievable story of James Braddock, dubbed the Cinderella Man by the great Damon Runyon.   <br /> <br />Although not as elegant with his prose as his father, Schaap tells the story of the down and out fighter, who gets that lucky second chance and makes the most of it.  The book was released just before the movie of the same title, but the two are independent projects.  That's too bad, the movie producers could have used the help of this book.   <br /> <br />Schapp was very effective in giving the reader the mood of the times and making Braddock easily accessible to understand his emotions.  His wife's character is less well developed, but that most likely is due to less available historical information on her.  Schaap did not neglect discussion on the various other fighters who make their way into the story including Jack Dempsey, and especially Max Baer.  I don't know if a book has been written on Baer, but he was a particularly interesting and tragic personality.  Schaap also does not make the error as did the movie into making Baer the antagonist.  The depression was the villain, and the writer did not sway from this story line.   <br /> <br />I'm particularly glad that the writer used boxing for his first book, since boxing makes for the most interesting of sports stories.  He also gave us a chance to learn about an athlete who used his abilities and self-determination to rise above his lot in life and become a true champion.   <br />	2005-06-20
US	31660136	R1T72UUHAZMORI	0805069518	983760132	Chester Alan Arthur: The American Presidents Series: The 21st President, 1881-1885	Books	3	3	7	N	N	This is all there is to say about Arthur.	As a cursory look at the shelves of any bookstore would show, figures such as Lincoln, Churchill, or the Roosevelts are often frequented by biographers to various levels of success.  This is possible given both the amount of writings and speeches left behind from these types of figures, and their enduring influence in today's government and society.   <br /> <br />Harder to write are biographies on historical figures who seemed to have only passed through the night, important as links in a chain, but without personal significance in their own right.  In the American Presidents series, John Dean was successful in resuscitating life into the otherwise dead legend of Warren Harding.  Less successful was Kevin Phillips' book on William McKinley.   <br /> <br />Alas, this short bio on Chester Arthur by Zachary Carabell falls closer to the latter than the former in trying to find interest in a long forgotten president.  Carabell acknowledges the difficulty with his subject since Arthur was the accidental president (took office after Garfield's assassination) and a person who was satisfied in acting as the unseen executive in the political machine.   <br /> <br />Arthur left no historical papers of interest.  The most interesting anecdote was his venture into the 1850's Kansas-Missouri civil war.  But even this ended without drama with his running back on almost the next train to New York.   <br /> <br />The author seeks to find importance to the Arthur administration, but his efforts are in vain.  The author's best effort was discussing Arthur's efforts to redecorate the White House.  That Louis Tiffany was contracted by Arthur to be the decorator showed exceedingly good taste for the widower president.   <br /> <br />As for policy, however, Carabell could only be said to have convinced himself that Arthur achieved any importance.  Aside from some minor naval buildup, he initiated no legislation.  Arthur vetoed a blatantly bigoted anti-immigration bill, but immediately signed a slightly revised version.  He signed a civil service reform bill, but played no part in its passage and only after its passage by a lame-duck Congress that was soundly defeated in the just completed elections.  The author concludes that Arthur could not be blamed for his party's resounding election defeats and later loss of the presidency, but that only magnifies his lack of influence within his own party and the electorate.  Most odd was the author's stated surprise at the lack of biographies written about Arthur.  After completing this work, one could only wonder why anyone would want to write anything more about him.   <br />	2005-04-27
US	31660136	R2QO788JWWFCYG	0142004693	929452996	The Bounty: The True Story of the Mutiny on the Bounty	Books	4	6	9	N	N	Everything you would want to know about the mutiny except...	Since reading this author's earlier book on the Shakelton South Pole misadventure, I looked forward to this text on the Bounty mutiny long immortalized by novels and movies (Clark Cable playing the best Fletcher Christian, Anthony Hopkins the best Mr. Bligh).   <br /> <br />Here, the author gives infinite details of the event including personality descriptions on some of the sailor's family members (few if any came off as very complimentary, but perhaps that was the author's choice to focus on the more \\"colorful\\" characters).  She also gives many facts that I had not earlier known (e.g., Mr. Bligh was not a captain during the voyage, but a lieutenant, and Fletcher Christian's brother was himself involved in a mutiny-like act just before the Bounty sailed).   <br /> <br />The author's intent was to only present information on the adventure that has a reasonably high amount of veracity.  According to the author, this leaves Mr. Bligh's account with the less amount of calumny, while the accounts of some of the Bounty's family members were much more suspicious.  In this regard, the author's conclusions appear to be very sound and a welcomed closure on the story of crime on the high seas and a vindication for Mr. Bligh.  She also gives a full bibliography for those desiring to further investigate. <br /> <br />What disappointed me, though, was the author's less detailed interest in the plight of those dismissed from the Bounty.  Here, Lt. Bligh took an overloaded and ill-equipped launch boat and over 48 days navigated thousands of miles until safely rescued.  Not one in the boat perished in the boat, although, some did die after being rescued and one died when attacked by natives on an island.   <br /> <br />The author did not completely pass over this incredible event without comment and she did acknowledge the high public and professional acclaim Bligh received.  However, as detailed as she was with some minor material (e.g., sappy poems by Mr. Heywood's emotionally fragile sister), the author gives relatively bits of information on this great sea adventure.  This despite there having been several accounts written at the time for public consumption including those written by Bligh.  Perhaps this latter story is waiting for yet another author's pen.   <br />	2005-04-25
US	31660136	R1JSYU0FQ22WY7	1594200092	686377339	Alexander Hamilton	Books	5	68	78	N	N	Flawed giant in History, who should not have been president	I found this book much more engaging than McCullough's bio of John Adams.  Of the founding fathers' bios that I have read, Hamilton may be the one I would most like to have spent a long dinner listening to his ideas and political concerns.  Part of his quality is his underdog status.  A poor immigrant who was probably the only founding father to personify the American hope of rags-to-riches.   <br /> <br />As with almost all the other founding fathers, whose biographies I have read, Thomas Jefferson played a significant role.  As with some of these founding fathers, Jefferson played a villainous role.  I am still trying to find enough reason to glorify Jefferson, but the guy needed a good kick in the rear.   <br /> <br />Chernow provides excellent refutation of the Jeffersonian inspired negative images of Hamilton as an enemy of democracy and an aristocrat.  In a manner that would have made Hamilton proud, the author seems to take pleasure in noting the hypocrisy of the aristocratic Jefferson, and Madison attacking Hamilton who actually put his life on the line to win independence from Britain, and who may have been the first to have called for the Constitutional Convention to make this land into an actual country.  If the British ever saw Jefferson, it was only to glimpse the back of his horse as he fled to the hills at the first sight of a redcoat.   <br /> <br />Less happy for Hamilton is the author's honest assessment of Hamilton's weaknesses, of which there were many.  This is why any current day opponents of Hamilton (e.g., state rights exponents) would have to agree that this is a well-balanced treatment of its subject.  After finishing this book, I concluded that Hamilton would have been the brightest, and hardest working president in history, but his temperament would have surely doomed his administration.   <br /> <br />Hopefully, text book writers will incorporate the information in this book and give proper status for our students of this incredible, butflawed man.   <br />	2005-04-11
US	31660136	RT5780M2KZORQ	0805069240	476402838	Thomas Jefferson: The American Presidents Series: The 3rd President, 1801-1809	Books	3	5	7	N	N	A man for everyone, but does that make greatness?	Much like the subject of this book, this text left me puzzled.  At times I thought the author too dismissive of important issues about Jefferson.  At other times the author gave excellent perspectives of this founding father. <br /> <br />I do not rate this book too high, but I do not downgrade this book as have several other reviewers, who seem to espouse an anti-intellectual view of history.  I disagree with the concept that one should not criticize historical figures with current day knowledge.  I notice that these same folks are not restrained from praising historical figures using twenty-first century perspectives.  But, mostly these people only use their \\"don't criticize\\" argument to protect those with whom they agree, and conversely bash other historical figures with whom they dislike (e.g., try reading some of those anti-Lincoln books by southern apologists).  An if someone truly doesn't believe in critical evaluations of the founding fathers, then let them stick to reading children's nursery rhymes. <br /> <br />I want to read more books about Jefferson, but from what I have read he is a very contradictory fellow.  For example, has anyone noticed how often he was wrong in his policies and programs?  He fought Hamilton on the economic system best for this nation (Hamilton's system won), he supported ties with the French over the British.  How did that result?  (Freedom fries anyone?).  He \\"argued\\" for full democracy (only for white males), yet current republicans ridicule true democracy as anarchy.  He denigrated centralized federal government, yet now the current administration is telling local schools how and what to teach our children.  He opposed the Alien-Sedition Act, but only by the federal government, he thought states were fine to prosecute the same type of dissent.  He preferred tobacco farming over wheat farming since it takes more effort to grow the former, yet the only accounts of Jefferson the farmer was how he constantly brought himself on theedge of financial ruin, while keeping his nails clean of soil.   <br /> <br />He wanted open debate, but often stood in the shadows using others as his mouthpiece to snipe at his foes such as Adams.  He moved quickly for the U.S. to attack the Barbary Coast, but took to his horse when the British approached the Virginia capital when he was governor (but cowardice is still not keeping a person from being elected president).  We are told that he was an inspired inventor, but can anyone name a single Jefferson creation that had any public use at any time in history?   <br /> <br />Please do not misunderstand.  Jefferson does deserve a place of high honor among this country's founding fathers.  His Monticello home was superbly designed especially how he formed the home with the landscape.  I just have not seen, and this book did not provide, the reason to place him above people like Washington, and Franklin, etc.  His words are, or should be, engrained in the American conscious, but his words were not original, he depended on various philosophers in Europe and ancient Rome.   <br /> <br />Honestly, I believe that the reason Jefferson garners more historical interest than so many other figures of 1776 is because he was full of so many contradictions.  He can be made into whatever you want since he seemed to have said, or acted in so many ways that it is easy for a person to believe that Jefferson would have been on his (but not on her) side.   <br />	2005-03-09
US	31660136	R76DOZYV3UL3L	1400032717	459979615	The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time	Books	5	3	4	N	N	I was floored by this book and did not want it to end.	I rarely write a review for books that already have hundreds of reviews, but I wanted to express how this book is so incredibly moving.  This was the rare book that I did not want to finish.  It is one of the most innovative stories.  Imagine writing a book from the perspective of an autistic teenage boy.   <br /> <br />The author is experienced with developmentally disabled children, according to his bio.  I guess that many of his anecdotes are taken from real life experiences with youths of this type.  I do not work with this population, but there is little in this story that does not appear realistic.   <br /> <br />The author artfully uses secondary characters to further explain the boy's choice of action and his thought process.  I would, though, have preferred if the father's character could have been better explained as to why he made the decisions that so deeply affected his son, Christopher.   <br /> <br />Also I found it very accurate for an autistic child, that while one can be engrossed in his story, the reader is unlikely to fully understand this child since Christopher is never able to truly understand the other people he encounters.  One can enjoy the autistic-protagonist of this story, but one can never expect the protagonist to ever accept the other person other than from his restricted perspective.   <br /> <br />I would strongly support this book for high school age students and adults.  I would recommend it for even younger audiences, but for the occasional severe language of several characters in this book.  I will certainly look for this author's future novels, which will hopefully soon come. <br />	2005-03-04
US	31660136	REHRBKP4SFWY9	0743205839	576682884	John Paul Jones: Sailor, Hero, Father of the American Navy	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Fascinating figure, but I dispute the author's thesis.	Evan Thomas provides a modern perspective on the legendary naval hero, John Paul Jones.  That is, the author seeks to correct some of Jones' legend (some his alleged quotes), and he tries to give a plausible excuse for why Jones was not given a higher grade in the service.  According to the author, Jones' personality was such that it was nearly impossible for him to suppress his sharp tongue.  This then led to his grating on nerves and losing out to less worthy peers.   <br /> <br />I appreciate the author's attempt to put Jones' frustrations in perspective, and it certainly can be possible that Jones (who was raised as a commoner and thereby denied a commission in the Royal Navy) suffered from what Alfred Adler would call, an inferiority complex.  However, I can't accept Thomas' entire premise.  Frankly, it seems that Jones was hardly unique among his military peers with his personality trait.  But, that hardly hurt other far less skillful captains from achieving higher rank.   <br /> <br />It seems to me that Jones, who was certainly ahead of his time in understanding the modern navy and military tactics, was more the victim of class bias.  Indeed, the author notes was such prejudices were rampant in the U.S. Navy of the 18th Century and influenced promotions. To consider it from the author's point of view is seeking to fault the figure and thereby accepting this type of class bias.   <br /> <br />Regardless, this is a highly entertaining book with many interesting historical facts that will delight the reader.  I also enjoyed reading about Fredericksburg in the 1770's.  Jones' home is able to be seen today in downtown F'burg. <br />	2004-12-09
US	31660136	R30L95KVHQETIM	1595230009	444832125	A Matter of Character: Inside the White House of George W. Bush	Books	1	23	48	N	N	Like pseudo-science, this is pseudo-journalism	This current pro-Bush work purports to be purposeful journalism, but it is ultimately flawed in such an obvious way that one wonders the real objective for the writer, Ronald Kessler.  The author claims to have supported Gore in 2000 (take his word for it), but he now favors Bush (as this book is proof).  That's fine, and that's his business.  However, he claims that his conversion is due to studying Bush to the point that he now realizes that the Bush critics have no idea of how Bush actually works.   <br /> <br />This view would be of interest except that he develops this understanding, Not from sitting in on any Bush meetings, Not from following Bush on any given day, Not from carefully evaluating Bush's policies, and-believe it or not-Not from even ever speaking or meeting his new found hero.   <br /> <br />That's right, the author is convinced of Bush's intellect and staff meeting prowess not by ever meeting the fellow, but simply by asking Bush's underlings.  This would be like an umpire turning to the crowd at Fenway Park to ask if the Red Sox player was safe or out at home plate.  Guess the result!   <br /> <br />The publisher claims that the author had unprecedented access to these staff members.  Oh really, so now we are to believe that the administration operatives have been hiding from the media?  Since when!  And where are all of the interviews with people who have met with Bush on policy issues and disagree with him?   <br /> <br />Kessler also claims that including Collin Powell in the cabinet is a sign of Bush's openness to different ideas.  Well what about the fact that Bush failed to consult with Powell about war in Iraq until the decision had already been made.  It seems to me that an executive should only get credit for not having \\"yes\\" men if he actually speaks to them.  Apparently for Kessler, window dressing is as good as substance.  Perhaps that is the real reason why he now favors Bush.  In sum, Ronald Kessler's book is not prefixed with anattempt to be intelligent.  It has the same journalistic credibility as an interview with Big Foot, and suffers from greater bias than any of those Bush critics that he pillors in the book. <br />	2004-10-05
US	31660136	R20ADRT7WHGPCR	1566565529	462605189	The New Pearl Harbor: Disturbing Questions About the Bush Administration and 9/11	Books	1	24	80	N	N	I dislike Bush as much as the next million guys, but Please!	Mark Twain was said to have commented that there is nothing more stupid than an educated man talking about a subject on which he was not educated.  That was true with the book The Real Lincoln written by an economics professor, and it is true with the nonsense of this book written by a theology professor.   <br /> <br />Anyone who cares to notice some of my earlier reviews will see that I am more than willing to criticize the current administration.  I do believe that Bush is inept, and lost in his own world, but this book is pure delusions and paranoia.  E.g., it was not a hijacked plan that crashed into the Pentagon?  I work in Washington D.C.  I spoken to people who saw the plane flying down on the Pentagon, I saw the devastation, don't give me the lunacy that it did not happen.  <br /> <br />The crazy right wingers have their authors such as Sean Hannity, Limbaugh, ORielly, and their publishers, such as Regnery publishing.  Can't we leave the uneducated ranting to those folks. <br />	2004-08-31
US	31660136	R3MFZJ7MUKR7C7	0316881716	778637679	Walkin' the Dog	Books	2	3	9	N	N	Tried to like it, but.....	I read this book shortly after I read Devil in the Blue Dress.  These are the only two Mosley books that I have read.  First, let me say that I admire those novelists who do not stick to a formula of the same character, same type of plot, same type of result, etc., etc  (e.g., Tom Clancy, & Patrick Robinson).  However, that does not mean that Mosley will score big for every effort.   <br /> <br />I very much enjoyed Devil in the Blue Dress, and I wanted to like Walkin' the Dog, but it didn't happen.  The author presented a good study of the street language used by his main character and supporting characters.  The first half of the book was able to easily keep my interest.   <br /> <br />The problem was that the author never decided to make a novel out of his short stories.  This resulted in story lines that disappeared and the regurgitating of previously expressed ideas so that I sometimes dreaded turning the next page.  How many times did we need to know that Socrates (the main character) is a big, black, \\"bad man\\" who has done bad things in his past?  Yes, he's big, I get it!  He's black, I figured....  Also, months and years seemed to pass without notice or explanation.   <br /> <br />The other problem is that the writer wanted to make Socrates a unique philosophical figure.  His philosophical ideas, though, are hardly original, complex, or Socratic.  The author also has the character use some misleading ideas of Afrocentrism to support his beliefs (e.g., that St. Augustine was black because he was from Africa.  He was from the coastal area now known as Algiers, but that would not make him black as anyone familiar with Algiers would know).  The latter is not a major problem, but by that time in the story, I was a little irritated by the flow of the book.  In sum, I am pleased that Mosley sought a different type of story, at least he is trying to be a legitimate author.  He just missed the mark with this book. <br /> <br />	2004-08-31
US	31660136	R219RGGAR8JJGX	0446520586	489273195	America on Trial: Inside the Legal Battles That Transformed Our Nation	Books	2	13	15	N	N	So many pages for so little to read.	I am a strong admirer of Alan Dershowitz.  I especially enjoyed his books The Genesis of Justice, and Reasonable Doubts (O.J. Simpson case).  Unlike those books, America on Trial tries to do way too much.  It is more like his Contrary to Popular Opinion book, where he presents many of his earlier published commentaries on the law.   <br /> <br />Unfortunately, I found the writings in the current book to lack the cohesiveness and well considered analysis found in the earlier book.  Granted, this is not true for every case that he presents.  However, he includes far to many cases for which he simply wants to inject a personal opinion.  In so doing, he misses opportunities for more developed theories of particular cases.  Frankly, many of his comments on some of these cases could have been presented in a paragraph.   <br /> <br />I understand that he is trying to explain various aspects of American law by using an assortment of cases.  But, his points become obscure and sometimes repetitive by having too many cases in a format that reminds me of Reader's Digest, or U.S.A. Today.   <br /> <br />In sum, there is not enough in this book to be useful for serious students of law or history, and too many cases for the casual reader.  I hope that this is not a sign of the dummying down of Dershowtiz.  <br />	2004-08-03
US	31660136	R29RN5PEO3XLW7	0375414576	786383328	My Life	Books	4	26	43	N	N	From young Bill to older Bill, he is quite a story!	I can't say that every page was equally enticing, but President Clinton's memoirs were well worth the effort.  I found most compelling his sections on his family life.  Only the most cold-hearted, and there are many out there judging from some of the reviews, would not feel drawn to the young Bill Clinton.  And only the most envious could deny Mr. Clinton's superior intelligence.  <br />What I would have preferred is a deeper understanding of his presidential policies in the context of his personal philosophies.  I may have read too quickly, but I didn't get a good sense of his life philosophy other than to do good for others.  That itself is not a bad starting point, but I had hoped for greater self-reflection.  I also would have preferred more about his early life, and for him to have reflected on others impressions of him as have been written by so many of his friends, and former associates.<br />I find some of the criticisms of the book to be particularly spurious.  Several professional reviewers charge that this book is far from the quality of U.S. Grant.  Well Pres. Grant had the benefit of the Civil War to enrich the highlights of his life.  How often is Grant's memoirs cited for what he wrote of his presidency as opposed to his war career?  Did Grant fill his memoirs with mea culpas for the alleged scandals of his administration?  The comparisons are unfair and only show the extent that some will go to try and deflate the book's popularity.  I am only grateful that I haven't seen anyone try to compare this book with the St. Augustine's autobiography.<br />This book will not be the definitive statement on his life and presidency and no autobiography can serve that purpose.  It is an important contribution.  There is a genuine world wide interest in the man and his book nourishes that appetite.  <br />The public reaction to the book, pro and con, reflects American's love-hate relationship with the truly self made man.  We claim that it is our history to admirea person who comes from the most humblest of beginnings, yet such a person seems to arouse suspicion, envy and distrust.  That was true too for Ronald Reagan except his rise was less dramatic given that he changed his aspirations to politics in later life.  <br />Bill Clinton wanted to be president as a child, as is true for many children.  Unlike the rest of us, he found a way to accomplish his dream that did not involve stuffing ballot boxes (like Lyndon Johnson in early career elections), smearing opponents (like Nixon in every campaign) or by calling his daddy and rich family friends (like, well you should know who by now).  In sum, the book was like his presidency, it was not always pretty, but it was better than having not had him with us at all.	2004-06-28
US	31660136	R33CGFTO4RBSBI	0805069569	566397493	Warren G. Harding: The American Presidents Series: The 29th President, 1921-1923	Books	5	9	10	N	N	A Scholarly Presentation of a Historically Tough Subject	John Dean, no stranger to White House scandals, author's this book of our 29th President for whom the White House's own internet site degrades.  What is most impressive about this book is that Dean uses verifiable facts about what was accomplished during Harding's tenure (fourth shortest of all presidents), and what more he intended to do.  This in sharp contrast to another short biography in this American President's series, William Mckinley, by Kevin Phillips who used more conjecture of \\"what might have happened if Mckinley had lived\\" to give greater importance to Mckinley.  <br />The story of Harding is particularly of interest since it is a story of basically a self made man (his family neither impoverished, nor rich).  He was a decent and hard working man who seemed to see his role as president as one to allow America to prosper, ease international worries, and bring normalcy after the controversial policies of the Wilson administration.  <br />Harding spoke in the deep south about racial equality, he allowed Blacks into the federal government (reversing the Wilsonian racism that his apologists so often downplay), organized a major peace conference among world powers, sought U.S. participation in a world court, established what is now the government accounting office and established economic policies that directly led to the \\"roaring twenties.\\"  Additionally, he defied public opinion by releasing Eugene Debs, and others (so long as they were not involved with violence) jailed by Wilson under the now discredited anti-sedition act, and he looked for a resolution to the labor-business problems.  He also won the presidency by a then record majority.<br />Harding provided a cabinet that included a future president and one of the more esteemed chief justices in the Supreme Court history.  Furthermore, his worse appointment, Albert Falls for the Interior, was widely supported for the post by the public, press, and Congress and he was easily confirmed.  Dean takes to task the more sensational accounts of Harding (e.g., having sex in a W.H. closet, fathering a (...) child [he was sterile], that he was a drunkard, a gambler, a pawn of congress, that he was killed by his wife, etc.).  <br />What basically happened was that Harding died before the nature of the Tea Pot Dome scandals became known to anyone but the criminals (Falls had already resigned), so he could not work to correct negative impressions of his administration, and other authors were not aware that the Harding papers survived to refute many of the negative claims.  Also, I believe that Harding was a target for pompous, class-minded writers and socialites who disliked his not coming from a more proper stock and education.  I didn't mean to be so extensive, but I believe that this is a valuable book and perhaps more needed to correct history than most of the other books in this series.	2004-06-22
US	31660136	R33XBBEZ58W2JL	0618404414	580560501	Messenger (Giver Quartet)	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Recommended, but must read the other two books first.	I read this book so as to know which books are best for recommending to my children and other youths with whom I work.  This is the fifth Lowry book I have read, and I would recommend each for as early as the middle/junior high school age group.  I think that many adults would also appreciate the stories.  <br />Of the three books in this trilogy (The Giver, and Gathering Blue being the others), I found this book to be equal to Gathering Blue, but neither as good as the Giver.  The current book is full of religious and secular-humanistic metaphors.  We have the savior figure dying for the sins of others, the citizens losing their souls for selfish and materialistic desires, and the author uses anti-immigrant attitudes to emphasize the loss of the public soul.  <br />As with some other Lowry books, the ending will leave some unsatisfied.  However, I enjoy endings with the resolution is left to the reader's imagination.  This is particularly of value for sparking conversations within one's circle of friends, family or classroom.  It is also a good technique for developing one's creativity.  I read other Lowry books with my children and they led to good dinning table conversations.  I fully recommend this book for ages ten and older, but the story will be lost for those who have not read the other two books.	2004-06-01
US	31660136	R2HU3IJDCRD5KJ	031600023X	827119224	Worse Than Watergate: The Secret Presidency of George W. Bush	Books	4	22	30	N	N	A monograph of some importance.	I was initially skeptical about reading books by John Dean, but I have read some of his other works (on Rehnquist, and Warren Harding), and I have found him to be a very good author.  In this his latest work, he returns to the scene of the Watergate crimes, The White House. <br />Dean's work is really a monograph in which he hopes to bring forth his fear that the current Bush administration's emphasis on secrecy transcends normal tactical-political interests and has led to an institution that attacks rational discussion.  Dean provides the reader with nearly thirty pages of chapter notes and citations.  Most interesting for the reader, he provides internet sources from which he obtained some of his material.  <br />Undoubtedly, the book will be reprobated by those with sympathy for the current administration, but Dean has an insider's perspective that should not be comfortably dismissed.  He has seen first hand the \\"cancer\\" in an earlier adminstration that harmed America.  His stance is that the current situation can cause, or has already caused, lasting harm far beyond these shores.  <br />Dean's arguments remind me of what Jacob Bronowski postulated in The Ascent of Man.  That is, as one's feeling of certainty increases, so does the belief of intolerance for opposite views.  This is basically the crux of Dean's thesis.  He believes that the current administration is so certain of their position of world command that any contrary argument is condemned as treasonous.  The reader is free to check the author's sources and develop another opinion, but Dean's ideas are worth considering.	2004-05-12
US	31660136	ROT17UVZA1P14	0395867614	702211299	Gettysburg	Books	5	4	8	N	N	A respectful look at those who fought.	If this is the first or only book you read on Gettysburg, then a wise choice you have made.  Within this book are historical background that led to the North's great victory, the military tactics of each side, the faults and achievements of generals and enlisted men, and finally the human faces of those who fought and suffered.  <br />Sears' documents the plundering by Lee's army against the Northern inhabitants.  The southern officers extorting U.S. backed funds from town leaders upon threat of town destruction, while only occasionally leaving confederate bills that were already nearly worthless in their own states.  This information is contrary to many simplified versions of supposed southern chivalry.  <br />Sears makes clear why credit is due to General Meade for out-generaling Lee.  Sears too raises questions about Lee's lack of foresight in planning for the battle.  Gettysburg is where some of Lee's character traits (e.g., his preference for hands off leadership, and vagueness in giving orders) eventually doomed his campaign.  <br />It is also disappointing to see Lee's inability to admit failure and his trying to spin success from the defeat.  I am reminded of the true story of when then President Eisenhower gave a tour of the battlefield to former British Field Marshall Montgomery.  The latter surveyed the sight of Pickett's charge with incredulity as to how a charge command could have ever been issued.  \\"What would you have done to me if I had given such an order?\\" asked Montgomery to his former commander.  Eisenhower quickly replied, \\"I would have fired you!\\"  Politically, Eisenhower regretted this statement because of his southern constituency, but he spoke the truth.  Any one of us who have walked the battlefield could see at once the folly of Lee's plan of attack, and Meade's wisdom to remain prepared.  <br />Finally, Sears' book is most noteworthy for his reminder throughout the text that Gettysburg is ultimately a story of humans, their faults, theirbravery, their commonness to those who now live.  These men were sons, fathers, husbands, and not just statistics.  This is what I believe to be the most important story of Gettysburg and the Civil War.  I'll leave it to others to play imaginary war games of the battle on their computers, or act as weekend mock soldiers.  <BR>Also recommended, by Sears, McClellan; William Davis, &quot;Look Away! A History of the Confederate States of American;&quot; and Roy Blount, Jr.'s, Robert E. Lee.	2004-05-10
US	31660136	R10KJG3S92LCU8	0743244745	827668417	General Ike : A Personal Reminiscence	Books	3	2	3	N	N	A general�s portrait by his son.	This review refers to the abridged CD-audio book.  I frankly don't understand why the publisher did not give the full text on CD since the book is not much longer than the audio version.  The book, however, is very interesting.  His son gives the reader a warmer version of his father that is not too often seen of him.  <br />Unfortunately, the author's relationship to his subject typically caused him to not touch some more sensitive areas of Eisenhower's life (e.g., his relationship with his female driver while in England, or his civil rights record while as president) and the writer gave us next to nothing about his relationship with Mamie (at least not on this CD version).  For other issues, the author tries to gloss over the record especially as it pertains to not forcefully defending Gen. Marshall from ludicrous attacks by Joe McCarthy.  The author's excuse that Ike needed to first consider the political ramifications is certainly unbecoming of the great man who led Allied forces to European victory.  <br />Overall, though, I highly recommend this book.  The author breaks it into chapters devoted to Ike's life with other illustrious figures of history such as Douglas McArthur, Marshall, Patton and especially his section on British Field Marshall Montgomery.  All of these add up to mini-biographies and are well worth the read.	2004-04-30
US	31660136	R29VPGJ3L801EB	0743222245	376327637	Living History	Books	4	8	14	N	N	A woman of great strength and intellect.	This review refers to the abridged CD-audio book.  The reward in listening to the audio is that the author reads from her book.  Regardless of what is said about her, she has an engaging style of speech and kept my interest throughout.  The downside is that the story is rather choppy.  There is too much thrown in so the story jumps in and out with sometimes little satisfaction.  I also would have liked to have heard more about how her total family (i.e., grandmother included) might have affected her emotional/intellectual development.  I understand from others that the full text also did not elaborate much on this and other issues.<br />Despite the problems, I found the book to be of great interest and I felt a better understanding and appreciation about her.  She is certainly a person of high intelligence and character.  I doubt many others could have withstood the horrific attacks upon her and her family (such as people like Rush Limbaugh comparing her daughter to a dog).  The listener can hear the pain in her voice as she talks about her husband's infidelity.  Hillary not only stood firm, she fought back and gained a political status on her own right..  I have two daughters, and I would be proud to hold Hillary Clinton as a career role model for them.	2004-04-30
US	31660136	R28XLUA2YTLLI0	0142002054	43762575	Diamonds Are Forever (James Bond Novels)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Fleming finding his groove	This is the fourth of the Bond books.  This book shows why it is best to read the books in their order of publication.  There are too many references to earlier stories that would puzzle the reader and lessen the appreciation for the book.  This book was best known for being turned into the last of the Sean Connery traditional Bond movies.  As other reviewers mentioned, the book is far superior to the movie.  The movie introduced the kind of comical sequences that Roger Moore was to make his trademark Bond.<br />The book, however, is of interest to me since it seemed to have been Fleming's first attempt at a lengthy Bond novel.  The other books maintained central figures and were easier to follow the action.  This book was actually overburdened with the author's attempt to become more complex.  Lacking in this book was the kind of chief, evil character that was found in Live and Let Die, and to a lesser extent the Moonraker character.  The evil characters in the Diamonds' book were several, and the final guy was barely known.  This probably reflected Fleming's attitude toward the American Mafia.  However, his characterizations of the two expert hit men more than made up for this oversight.  I understand that he returned to a central evil character in his next book From Russia With Love.<br />I was also pleased to see that Fleming displayed better self control over his racial attitudes.  I hope this reflected a personal enlightenment, rather than wanting to avoid criticism that most likely accompanied his Live and Let Die book.<br />Finally, the character, Tiffany Case, had more of a significance in this story than the women in the previous books.  It seemed to me that Bond so strongly reacted to Tiffany Case because she was a strong, self sufficient personality.  She also gave the author an opportunity to better expose Bond's intimate side.  I suppose that the author will inform the reader in the Russia with Love book as to what became of Ms. Case.	2004-04-13
US	31660136	R17B0QDP0BN8UC	0670030791	710534464	Winston Churchill	Books	2	14	37	N	N	Recommended, but with reservations	As usual, the author gives an informative and intelligent perspective of his subject.  I've liked his many other books, and I have enjoyed other biographies of Churchill.  Alas, I cannot agree with the author's final enthusiasm for Churchill, or for Churchill's being declared the most important figure of the last century.  <br />As is stated in the book, Churchill had many significant accomplishments, but I am troubled by the author's lack of discussion of his subject's faults.  Churchill gave every indication of being a racist.  He was also a strict colonialist whose position lacked foresight of many future and bloody conflicts.  These issues, that is the facts supporting these conclusions, are all noted by Keegan, but with no elaboration.  <br />Also, why are so many willing to credit Churchill with great courage for his flying in and out of battles?  I imagine that many soldiers would be similarly &quot;courageous&quot; if given the option (with mommy's help) to leave the field of battle as they chose.  This is what Churchill did in every engagement in which he participated.  For me, the courageous are those who remained regardless of the \\"excitement\\" level.  <br />Churchill was blinded by his racism, elitism, and flighty ideas of warfare.  These were not simple idiosyncrasies with no significant repercussions.  His lack of respect for fighting abilities of the Asian race and his insistence on colonialism arguably led to the type of policies for which thousands of British soldiers died.  Furthermore, his impulsive (and let's face it, ignorant) ideas of warfare directly led to his pushing and approving disastrous campaigns in both world wars.  Again, Keegan failed to follow up on any of these issues and if anything he treated them as peculiar traits of the great statesman such as his cigar smoking, and moodiness.  <br />Churchill wrote volumes on WWII, all of which conveniently overlooks any of his possible errors, but it received enough acclaim (by many for whomI suspected did not actually read the several volumes), and this shaped how many historians and biographers were to later judge the war and Churchill.  <br />I only argue that it is time to honor the man for his accomplishments, but it is not heretical to want a full discussion of him.  The British electorate seemed well aware of the dichotomy of the man when they demanded his rise to prime minister, but removed from office him and his party when the times changed.	2004-04-07
US	31660136	R30MCI4TWPMG1K	0805069593	406845946	Franklin Delano Roosevelt: The American Presidents Series: The 32nd President, 1933-1945	Books	5	4	5	N	N	An excellent final book for a quality biographer.	The author, in this his final book, is British with an illustrious career as a biographer of such figures as Gladstone, Churchill, and Truman.  He also served in his country's ministry.  At first glance, it may seem controversial to assign to a foreigner the task of writing about one of America's greatest presidents.  However, Lord Jenkins gives a perspective of Roosevelt without the tint of American politics.  <br />It is amazing and disturbing to me the amount of enmity that some in this country express towards Roosevelt, bordering on delusional.  What Roosevelt did for this country cannot be adequately expressed in a short biography, or in any book.  Much of his pre-war accomplishments translated into an emotion of hope and optimism that moved to a sense of security during the war years.  <br />The author addresses and logically dismisses the paranoid charges that either Roosevelt and/or Churchill allowed Pearl Harbor to occur.  As one who lived in Britain during the war, he demonstrates Roosevelt's importance to freeing the world of fascism, and unsettling Churchill's colonialist interests.  Fanatical right wingers condemn Roosevelt for the Yalta agreement's failure to rid Poland of the Soviets.  The author (actually the co-author who wrote the last few pages after the main author's death) notes that neither Roosevelt or Churchill are at fault since Stalin was already in full control of Poland with no intention of peacefully moving.  <br />My only criticism is the abruptness in which Eleanor Roosevelt is left out of the story.  Of course, Mrs. Roosevelt is deserving of her own book that is not the point of this presidential series.  <br />It is a shame that more people will not read this book.  I recently wrote a review of the NY Times plagiarist Jayson Blair's book and that received a few dozen responses.  This is perhaps my fourth or fifth review of an American President series book and the total responses number only a handful.  I reason that much more can begotten out of reading quality biographies of worthy individuals than concerning ourselves with an immature nobody.	2004-04-01
US	31660136	R23JRNI8M7GW0N	0805069062	352429226	Theodore Roosevelt: The American Presidents Series: The 26th President, 1901-1909	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Good book for a tough subject to pin down.	This book serves as a good introduction to Theodore Roosevelt to either satisfy or stimulate one's curiosity before indulging in a lengthier biography. This is a &quot;short&quot; bio, and not meant to be a treatise on T.R. The author was better with his Penguin Lives book on Woodrow Wilson, but he seemed to have more fun with Roosevelt. <BR>As a subject T.R. is especially enjoyable, but more for his forceful character than for any of his objective accomplishments (for which the author notes several, e.g., negotiating the peace between Japan and Russia, and his national conservationist orders, etc.). <BR>The author addresses Roosevelt's sense that his presidency was relatively unspectacular, and since war time presidents receive the most historical attention (e.g., leading to positive evaluations for Lincoln and Franklin Roosevelt, but negative for Wilson due to his post war failures), Roosevelt felt himself cheated from his place of greatness due to being a peacetime president. <BR>As this author notes, many of T.R.'s beliefs had long lasting value (especially, I feel, his beliefs on the limitations of capitalism as spoken by a pro-business chief executive). Those who followed him, though, soon abandoned these attitudes. The reason for this seems to rest with T.R. He accomplished much emphasizing the forcefulness of his personality and took credit for improvements as being uniquely his. Since he can be the only T.R., his philosophy could not be transmitted to others. When out of office, he was no longer &quot;T.R.&quot; and his so-called system collapsed as with a deck of cards. He was ultimately left a shell of his former self.<BR>What if Roosevelt had toned down some of his tendencies? Might he have extended his influence over the next administrations and the country? If so, might this have led to a different result in how America influenced the developing European disputes that resulted in the First World War? These are some of the questions that remained with me from reading this book.	2004-03-31
US	31660136	R1HB8FQG85XYDZ	0805069534	170491545	William McKinley: The American Presidents Series: The 25th President, 1897-1901	Books	2	10	15	N	N	The author falls well short of his goal.	I have become a major fan of the short biographies presented in the American Presidents, and the Penguin Lives series.  They are a means to provide both scholars and casual readers with insight into historical figures in a purposefully confined presentation.  <br />Most of these figures come with an abundance of published biographies, and one measure of success for these short presentations is whether the reader is left wanting to read more extensive treatises.  Unfortunately, this 200 page biography of William McKinley left me anxious to finish, and no desire to read more.  <br />The author, Kevin Phillips, stated goal was to show how McKinley was more than just Teddy Roosevelt's predecessor, and deserved a ranking of much higher esteem.  He contests the historical view that McKinley's importance is solely his expertise in tariffs.  Oddly, the author then proceeds to include in each chapter significant discussion on tariffs.  This made for very dry, and sometimes mind numbing reading.  It also defeated his purpose of highlighting McKinley's other achievements.  <br />As to these other accomplishments, what he provided were mostly anecdotal claims of superior skills, and simple conjectures of what he may have accomplished if not assassinated.  As to the circumstances involving the assassination, the author seems to presume that the reader is too well acquainted with the story to bother providing any details.  He also states that the president was more concerned with others while he lay dying, than of his own self.  This is a heartening claim, but he failed to give any example of what he meant.  <br />Furthermore, the author chose to not give any comparisons between how the Republican McKinley coped with national problems and with the current Republican president.  This was an unfortunate choice by the author since it seemed like fertile ground, and would have gone far to make his subject more relevant to modern and future readers.  I read the book thinking that theauthor was encumbered by his professional position as a Republican strategist.  I now realize that he seems to have written this biography in conjunction with another book, published a few months later, faulting the Bush family's unprincipled influence on national politics.  <br />It appears, therefore, that the author had much more to say, but chose to not do it with McKinley's help.  Perhaps he was correct, and my suggestions may not have made a difference, but the resulting book gives us little to dispute the historical portrait of this president.  McKinley does appear to have been a genuinely good person with many scruples not often visible in current politicians, but still not one who deserves much elevation in historical importance.	2004-03-29
US	31660136	R3EP1VSK5NXC5U	0618282319	108797259	The Silent Boy	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Another challenging story by Lois Lowry	The author is known for her sudden and unconventional endings.  The best of these being The Giver.  The Silent Boy is the author's most recent work.  It too provides a conclusion that defies the usual \\"feel good\\" story endings of most children and adult novels.  To some this may be disconcerting, but I commend the writer for respecting her audience enough to challenge their imagination and intellect.  That said, I found this story to be less engaging than some of her other works.  I would have preferred the story to say more about the boy of the book's title.  Overall, I believe that this book is very appropriate for youths fourth grade and older.	2004-03-24
US	31660136	R3U0898NX94YUH	0743260244	924900643	Against All Enemies: Inside America's War on Terror	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Stripping the Emperor's clothes.	Richard Clarke presents an inside look at the Bush White House, not from the vantage point of an obscure and an essentially unimportant onlooker (e.g., Dereliction of Duty book), or from by a person committed to the opposition party (any number of current books).  It is also not published by a company with a hard core political agenda.  <br />The author gives a memoir of his several years in the executive hierarchy, and gratefully he does not stray outside his field of competency.  In just under 300 pages, the book is an easy read in a conversational style, i.e., not heavy with stats and figures. <br />Clarke's positions were as a non-partisan, high level officer in every administration since Ronald Reagan and two years in the current Bush white House.  His book shows his exceptional knowledge and commitment to combat terrorism.  His concerns about terrorism is what sparked this book.  The current administration is now trying to personally attack him as an apparent means to discredit his book.  This is the usual maneuver by someone with something to hide, or with little of the truth on their side.  However, the author details his case about the Bush failures to effectively combat terrorism with facts, not fantasies. <br />Several of the author's observations were also presented in other sources such as Ron Susskind's, The Price of Loyalty, and Al Franken's latest book.  I read this book while administration officials wrote editorials, spoke on talk shows, gave speeches defending Mr. Bush, but they won't all give full testimony, under oath to the 9/11 commission!  That is where to dispute Mr. Clarke, if dispute can be offered.  The author, however, is willing to give testimony under oath.  This is not to say that the author does not give many conclusions that are based on his professional judgment.  But, his opinions are based on decades of devoted service, and the book makes clear that he does know a great deal about the subject.  <br />It is particularly interesting that Condeleeza Rice (national security advisor) recently tried to dismiss Clarke by saying that he was not involved in many of the White House meetings on terrorism, thus making him unqualified to judge the administration.  This excuse is as telling as anything the author has to say, since what justification can there be to not involve the expert on terrorism in a high level meeting on terrorism?!  Until this administration shows less resistance to open communication, I must congratulate Richard Clarke and thank him for his noble service to our country with the writing this book.	2004-03-24
US	31660136	RXZVE9C2G5AQ6	0805069364	19883676	George Washington (The American Presidents Series)	Books	5	20	22	N	N	First rate book, about the country's First Citizen	This is one of the latest of the American Presidents Series of short biographies, presented by Arthur Shelesinger, Jr.  I remain puzzled by the lack of strong public interest in these books while lengthier tomes make the best sellers lists.  Regardless, I find these books to be an excellent complimentary resource that allow a reader to learn much more about presidents for whose name may have only have been memorized for a middle school civics class.  <br />Much has been written about Washington in the past, and he seems to be enjoying a resurgence of interest.  Some of these biographies are more hagiographic than the last, while others are critical especially of his contrary views on slavery.<br />The authors of this book, Burns &amp; Dunn, choose to try and focus on Washington's character, and philosophy, instead of chronicling each aspect of his life.  They discuss his military career up to the revolution and give short mention of his generalship.  But, what they miss in the revolution, they expound on in his post-war career as the president of the Constitutional convention, and as President.  <br />They provide beliefs of his that are relevant in today's executive branch, but more as an example of his judgments that were not followed.  For example, \\"In all situations, including emergencies, Washington demanded calm examination and `a deliberate plan.'  No action, he repeated to the secretary of war, should be undertaken without absolutely reliable facts and information.\\"  (pp. 63-64).  Also, Washington the southerner, not Lincoln the northerner, set the precedent for taking armed action against internal insurrection without the specific approval of the Constitution.  This is an historical fact that is ignored by too many of the current population.<br />Washington failed to live up to his famous maxims in many situations, as the book makes note, including short changing his former troops in the Ohio territory.  But, what he did accomplish in defining the role of the chief executive officer is a legacy that is too much taken for granted when rating the great former presidents.  This book only shows that character is a difficult judgment to make.  It's like trying to define beauty or love.  I was taught that there was only one perfect person in this world's history, and he was crucified.	2004-03-02
US	31660136	R27YUQEK1QNSQM	0761526463	268587681	The Real Lincoln: A New Look at Abraham Lincoln, His Agenda, and an Unnecessary War	Books	1	27	81	N	N	Can we have less than one star?	So Thomas Dilorenzo writes that BAD Abe Lincoln was the cause of the Civil War, oops, I mean the War Against the Invading North.  Only one problem here, the secession started BEFORE Lincoln was in office.  But facts never stood in the way of the \\"Lost Cause\\" folks, a.k.a. flat earthers.  By the way Dilorenzo, why didn't the south negotiate a peaceful means to remain in the United States (that's right it was then and still is now the United States thanks to Pres. Lincoln)?<br />What really galls me is how many of these flat earthers are the same ones who tell others that if they don't like this country, then they should leave!  There are so many people wishing they had a country like America, and here we have so many wishing that their ancestors had taken them out of the U.S.<br />Well, I proudly fly my flag and last I checked, the U.S. has a free exit door, so God Bless America Mr. Dilorenzo and don't let the door hit you on the way out.	2004-02-23
US	31660136	R12261HX6Q1QH0	014200202X	694137922	Casino Royale (James Bond Novels)	Books	4	3	5	N	N	A super agent, but not a super man.	Just as Sean Connery is the only real Bond, Ian Fleming remains the only real Bond author. For various reasons, I have not been as enthusiastic with all of the Fleming Bond novels, but I was very pleased to have just read this initial Bond book. The differences between the movies and the books are as different as the actors who have played the British secret agent. The book version of 007 gives us a much more human character. His confidence some times shakes, and he is left with much self doubt. Instead of a witticism at the sight of an antagonist's violent death, he becomes ill. He is harmed, and he cries. This is a \\"man's\\" book that I did not hesitate to offer to my wife to read. <BR>This book did not become a traditional movie. Instead the owner of the book rights (not the author) turned the story into a spy farce. There are important aspects of the book, however, that will be noticed in the true Bond movies. The story is different from Fleming's other stories, but the reader will not be disappointed. If nothing else, you will learn how to play the game of Baccarat, and how to make the famous Bond martini.	2004-02-17
US	31660136	R1FH2HOMUG0FCJ	0471244066	635530786	Handbook of Clinical Child Psychology	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Highly recommended for pediatric clinical workers.	I am writing about the 3rd edition, which is the most current volume.  The only disappointment that I have about this text is that I did not obtain it much earlier.  The chapters are well written with many references for further study.  The practitioner can keep abreast of the current literature on topics that s/he may already be familiar, or obtain authoritive information about other clinical areas not part of one's regular practice.  This text is not written in the style of a dictionary, that is, the reader is given a summary in the style and length of a journal article.  The book compliments the older volumes of the American Handbook of Psychiatry for which I have still found much use.  <br />I also give strong recommendation for the Social Worker's Desk Reference that is available on Amazon.  This latter book is a 2002 text that for some disorders gives a better summary than the Handbook.  The Desk Reference is of value regardless of one's clinical license.	2004-02-17
US	31660136	R19ETWNVAD9JVW	046509838X	545172516	Not Out Of Africa: How ""Afrocentrism"" Became An Excuse To Teach Myth As History (New Republic Book)	Books	5	59	68	N	N	In the defense of logic.	This book by the Wellesley professor of classics is a significant contribution not only to the study of classics, but for education in general.  I have worked with several people who are the product of college level instruction in Afrocentrism.  This view transcends cultural discussions and enters into their views of general logic used in the workplace.  That is, when trained to believe in the use of pseudoscience, the individual also exercises this method in unrelated areas.  This result is to be expected.  The reason why logic and reasoning is valuable to teach in schools is not so that a person can later discuss Descartes, or Aquinas, but so that the student can transfer this empirical method into general life problems.  <br />This is the point of Lefkowitz's book.  Afrocentrism is pseudoscience.  It is defended, not with evidence, but with racial sentiments of anger.  Regardless of pointing out factual inaccuracies, these so-called scholars take any contrary argument and charge that the other party is brainwashed into accepting a European view of culture.  This has led to many absurd arguments such as Egyptians flew in gliders, or that George Washington Carver was successful not because of his scientific training, but because of the amount of &quot;melanin&quot; in his skin.  <br />At its best, Afrocentrism seeks to induce pride in a race.  At worst, it devalues the African culture by using false claims and supporting anti-intellectualism.  This makes the proponent of such methods no better than those who speak poorly of African heritage due to a belief of European superiority. <br />The author's view is that African heritage should be valued on the many valid reasons to give acclaim, not on fantasy.  I recall in grade school reading about how the USSR controlled press espoused claims that basically everything, including the washing machine, was really an invention of communism.  These claims were both laughable and sad, and I feel the same for those who have given us Afrocentrism.  Unfortunately, some of these falsehoods are making their way into grade schools as part of Black History Month.	2004-02-10
US	31660136	RJ6QM74091RBZ	0679733965	661629371	Zoot-Suit Murders	Books	1	4	9	N	N	A novel in search of a plot.	I had really wanted to like this novel, but I couldn't.  As a Mexican-American from Los Angeles, I had looked forward to reading a novel involving an important aspect of the city's history.  This book failed to provide any insight and it gives a skewed view of the Mexican youth of that city during the 1940's.  <br />To believe the writer, every Mexican-American youth was wearing the zoot suit, a gang member, and a dupe of anti-American groups.  As someone who has been studying this period and issue, I can say that this is a gross misunderstanding.  <br />I am especially shocked that the author, who was apparently a civil rights advocate in earlier years, had no major Hispanic characters, and promoted such a naïve view of Hispanics.  I take it that given his surname, he too is Hispanic.  <br />Aside from those problems, the writing and story line are incredibly poor and dull.  The main characters are of little interest, and his persistent reference to the color of the main female character's hair bordered on obsessive (yeah, I get it, her hair is RED, and it's a metaphor, thanks!).  I understand that this writer has had more successful books, I hope so, but this is one to avoid.	2004-01-27
US	31660136	R6PUOSD9Z4K9U	0803273371	290185198	The Southpaw	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Excellent - the first of four Henry Wiggin books.	This is the first of the Henry Wiggin stories.  The most famous being Bang the Drum Slowly.  I have not before read any of these stories, but I will now make it a point of reading the other three.  <br />The story reads like an autobiography of a rookie pitcher in his first season with the New York team.  This style predates the several nonfiction books of athletes writing about a season in their career.  Although the time period is several decades ago, the material is still relevant for any true baseball fan.  <br />The main character is shown through his writings as developing from a single minded adolescent into a maturing adult.  The story is especially good in having two strong females who are not stereotypical characters.  The supporting characters are believable and fun in a Damon Runyon like way.  I strongly recommend this book as an example of sports fiction at its best.	2004-01-22
US	31660136	R2PJ4SPU9UUEAS	0142002062	234813261	Moonraker (James Bond Novels)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The Best of the First Three Bond Novels.	I am reading (in some cases rereading) the Ian Fleming Bond books in chronological order.  Moonraker is the third in the series.  As opposed to the first two, this book delves into the life of the government secret agent.  His everyday duties at work, and some of the personalities of those with whom he works.  There is an emphasis on his chief \\"M\\" including M's real name (to my knowledge never spoken in the movies).<br />The point of the story builds slowly, but once exposed the mystery moves with the familiarity of a Bond novel.  Again, the writer examines the human side of his character that is not seen in many other adventure novels.  This story also differs from the others by having a stronger female character who uses her wits and determination (and not relying on her looks) to save Bond's life.  Again, Fleming gives a diabolic antagonist, however, this one is particularly disgusting in his personal qualities.  What is very believable, though, is how those who meet this character, including Bond, allow their objectivity to be lost due to social and economic status.<br />The book includes some of the more clever prose by Fleming thus far in the series such as, \\"Bond could hear a quick, deadly ticking, the hasty tripping of tiny metal feet somewhere in the body of the Moonraker.  It filled the great steel chamber like the beating heart in Poe's story...\\"  <br />Missing is the exotic setting common for a Bond story.  Finally, for those who see the Bond character as the ultimate male chauvinist, the ending will come as a surprise.  <br />Also recommended in this series are, Casino Royale, and Live and Let Die.	2004-01-20
US	31660136	R33O1BV5PZ7JZE	1579549276	751729331	My Prison Without Bars	Books	1	25	33	N	N	A smell by any other name is still a Pete Rose.	This book is hardly worthwhile.  Rose apologists have read his life story before such as in Charlie Hustle, by Pete Rose.  In this new book, he reveals nothing new to the others who have actually bothered to read the John Dowd report and other similar material.  A better and more believable book is Hustle: Myth, Life and Lies of Pete Rose by Michael Sokolove.  <br />Rose appears to be one of those people who has no concept of how to be truthful.  Even with his so-called apology, he still takes the time to blame everyone else.  He's still trying to blame the late Bart Giamatti, but contrition for his own behavior, never.  In Rose's words, \\"You see, I'm just not built that way.\\"  <br />He denies ever betting against his team and the Dowd Report is absent that type of evidence, but that is irrelevant.  He admits betting on his team several times a week.  Wouldn't the gamblers have cause to wonder why he chose to not bet on his team on certain nights?  Isn't it likely that they would take this as a sign that he lacked confidence in his team's chances and they took advantage of this information.  <br />In the end, Rose lacks a true understanding of his crimes including those for which he served a jail sentence.  He brags about having his wife illegally bring him contraband items while jailed and used their baby daughter to smuggle the items.  Feel sorry for this guy?  Fergitaboutit!  Has he kicked his gambling addiction, NO.  He says that he still gambles, but only at casinos and the race tracks.  This is like the alcoholic who claims to be cured because he stopped drinking whiskey and gin, and now only uses beer and wine.  <br />Let Rose wait 14 more years to be eligible for reinstatement, the same length of time it took him to admit his crime against the game.  This would be a fair rule of thumb that will serve as a better deterrent for anyone else considering the same offense.	2004-01-13
US	31660136	R2GWQSFEZI2GR3	0786868694	794249672	Nigella Bites: From Family Meals to Elegant Dinners -- Easy, Delectable Recipes For Any Occasion	Books	5	2	6	N	N	Nigella Rules!	I admit that I started watching her show only because of seeing this incredibly beautiful woman on the screen.  It was several minutes before I noticed the point of the show was cooking, and boy can she cook.  She has the technical skills of any other gourmet, but she adds her personality to the meals that transfers very well from the screen to her books.  She truly has fun and makes the reader enjoy following along.  My wife and I have even enjoyed ourselves when we failed at one of her messy-style recipes.  It doesn't matter, its all in good fun, and when success occurs, wow, it's a delight for the palate.  Fortunately my wife is not the jealous type, and she happily accepts all of the Nigella books that I give to her.  The book is well worth investing one's time, money, and enthusiasm.	2004-01-09
US	31660136	R1PS2BIWRETFDO	0871319373	314407780	Dr. Atkins' New Diet Value Pack	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Easy to accomplish, and proven to work!	Unlike fad diets and abstinence, this is a diet that does not require you to carry a scale, or a calculator to figure out if the food in front of you is what you should be eating.  True, it helps if you love meat, but I have not met a fat vegetarian, so they should have nothing to worry about.  The thought of being able to eat as much of the meat, and eggs that I want is heaven on earth.  I no longer munch on pork rinds and feel guilty, but they are actually part of the diet.  <br />There is, however, a misconception that the diet eliminates carbohydrates.  This is specifically not the case.  The diet allows a severe lowering of carbs, but the allowed total increases somewhat after a short period of time.  I have not stopped eating at McDonalds, and other such places, but now I know that instead of a couple of quarter pound burgers, I can get a double burger and stay at my daily carb limit.  Once you are at the limit for the day, then you stop the carbs for only that day.  Therefore, I can also eat rice, bread, and pasta, but in limited servings.  This is not always easy, but I lost 18 pounds within eight weeks.  <br />I have not been as loyal to the diet since that loss, but I remain conscious about carbohydrates and this has kept me from regaining the weight after the last several months.  The point is to know what will put on the weight and keep control.  My wife and I add our own spices to the book's recipes so as to juice up the meals and to meet our taste needs.  I do miss the big plate of spaghetti, but now I can better keep up with my children in play.	2004-01-09
US	31660136	R3IERG12NMIC36	0696212900	316238109	New Cook Book (Better Homes and Gardens Test Kitchen)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Men should use this one.	Although I am not an idiot in the kitchen, my expertise is mostly with those dishes that I learned as a child and requires recipes from memory.  Past those items, I needed help.  My wife is a great cook and she uses this book among others.  I have found the book to be very easy to follow and complete in what it explains about the ingredients, and tools for cooking.  Like any recipe, I try to be creative with adding or subtracting spices, but you will be satisfied if you adhere to the book's recipes.  The pancakes and deserts are especially good and easy to achieve.  This is a must for anyone interested in cooking.	2004-01-09
US	31660136	R3B1MJ20CH9LCB	0312304161	728098808	Planet of the Umps: A Baseball Life from Behind the Plate	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A safe call for baseball fans to read.	I was given this book to read while I was sick in bed.  I love baseball, but I probably would not have picked up this book on my own.  I was not, however, at all disappointed.  Ken Kaiser's book made for a wonderful read.  He (or his co-author) correctly understood that this type of autobiography is only of interest as it pertains to the world of baseball, so there is very little about Kaiser's personal life away from the job.  <br />Kaiser's anecdotes are often funny and very revealing of the umpire's job.  He dispels many ideas of how an umpire makes certain calls.  Much of these myths are voiced by sportscasters/writers who like to sound as if they know the inside scoop of the game including the mind of the umps.  <br />I knew of Kaiser's name when he umpired, but I was mostly neutral about him, unlike my positive thoughts about the delightful Ron Luciano, or the less happy thoughts of someone like Rich Garcia.  His stories also make clear that what some believe as the self importance of the current umpires is nothing new to the game, but their working conditions have certainly improved.  <br />The book ends sadly, though, with Kaiser an apparent victim of the Richie Phillips led union.  Don't get me wrong, Kaiser is a big fellow and capable of making up his own mind, but the former union's advise was equaled in absurdity by the former air traffic controllers union.  The result was predictable and the game is not better off.  Kaiser deserves much credit for providing a well articulated defense of the umpire's job, his tributes to Ron Luciano, the Ripkens and his blasts at Earl Weaver, sports journalists, and the baseball hierarchy.	2004-01-07
US	31660136	R12Y4V5CMVWDSK	0553211439	997665202	A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court (Bantam Classics)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	What would you do for fun in Camelot?	Who has not wondered what they would do if sent back centuries earlier armed with the knowledge of modern life?  Mark Twain is perhaps the first writer (at least the first that I know of) who makes a serious effort (with much comedy thrown in) to consider this question.<br />The main character, Hank Morgan, is mysteriously transported from the then modern age of the late 19th century into the land of Camelot, with King Arthur and his knights.  Although the story is well known for the comedic stories within the book, less known is the author's serious statements about human frailties such as prejudice (this book is an outspoken criticism of slavery at a time when the Just Cause myth of the American south was getting its start), superstition, autocracy, blind reliance on tradition, etc.  His severity against the Catholic church stings me because that is my faith, but when considering the history of the church and some of the atrocities committed by some church leaders, his denigration is not without some justification.<br />There is much here for philosophical debate.  Twain takes an anti-determinist view of what man is capable of accomplishing, but he is fatalistic about the ability of one person to make a lasting change.  I think that he missed the point.  Hank Morgan failed not so much because of the forces of custom or the clergy, but because he tried force cultural enlightenment.  This is like expecting wisdom from ten year olds simply because they have the lessons of their elders available to them.  Cultural improvement is a developmental process and comes from self awareness.  The character would have also been improved if he had learned more of his own cultural shortcomings from involvement with this different society.  Regardless, this is a highly enjoyable book that shows why it, and the author remains of interest over a century later.<br />I disagree with the Editorial Review written by the School Library Journal that this book is recommended for as early as fifth grade.  I believe that the subject matter would be better considered and discussed with those in later grades.arly as fifth grade.  I believe that the subject matter would be better considered and discussed with those in later grades.	2004-01-07
US	31660136	RI6FOEAEESV9X	0142003239	840259062	Live and Let Die (James Bond Novels)	Books	3	6	16	N	N	The first of the great evil Bond characters, but�	I plan to read the stories in sequence, which is a good thing otherwise I would have later wondered about the character of Felix Leiter when he appears in upcoming stories.  As a believer that Sean Connery is the only true Bond, I also believe that Ian Fleming is the only true Bond author.  However, this book is the first to expose some of Fleming's less desired qualities.  He was a strong racist, and he gives this character flaw to James Bond.  <br />It was not as much the use of the N_____ word, but the author's philosophizing about the black person's place in society.  And heaven forbid if the female of Bond's desire for this book were actually a full blooded black.  If this were a different book, I probably would not have continued especially after the chapter titled, N____ Heaven.  However, I saw this book much as a did when I read Gone With the Wind.  It's an excellent book for its genre, mixed with the author's ignorance of sociological/historical issues.  It's like when I attend a prize fight.  I know that it's wrong, but darn I like it.  <br />That said, the story line is fast paced, and I enjoyed reading about the character's observations of the U.S. Atlantic coast region from the 1950's perspective.  There is a lot of death and Bond and his friends do not escape from much of this brutality.  What is particularly appealing is the development of Bond's first great evil antagonist, Mr. Big.  The story gives the reader better insight into Bond's abilities and vulnerabilities.  This is what I like from the books that are not much noticed in the movies.  Overall, a good read, but with a lower rating from me due to the racism.	2003-12-10
US	31660136	R3UMT95SVBL5MW	1400042577	331082131	I Am a Soldier, Too: The Jessica Lynch Story	Books	4	17	23	N	N	An American Hero--for honesty!	I'm giving this book high marks not so much for the story interest, but for the former private's honesty.  Here is a person who could easily have been corrupted into following the fictitious story of her plight that was presented by the government, military, and the media.  Of course, this is not a book for analyzing these issues of propaganda.  That will have to be done in other types of books.  I have to wonder if some readers will have a negative reaction to Lynch's story because she tells the truth as she knows it.  I can't say that she was a military hero since I believe that such a title should be dispensed to those who have acted above and beyond.  Gratefully, she does not try to place that title upon herself.  However, I do believe that she is a hero for her honesty.	2003-11-14
US	31660136	RX74L12JC0SMU	0399151729	162118562	A Royal Duty	Books	2	25	40	N	N	Left me feeling empty	Although I felt like many others the tragedy of the Princess's death, I have not wanted to read the several books about her.  I did pick up this recently published book, however, and it is a very easy read.  It is billed as having startling revelations, but there is little here that the reader was not prepared to know given the amount of similar information from the numerous magazine, books, and documentaries, etc. that have existed for several years.  I really don't need another book to reinforce my belief that Charles was/is a jerk for how he acted towards his wife.  <br />Despite the author's friendship for the Princess, I couldn't help read it and wonder what was his real purpose for the book.  I do not know the man, but I can't help but feel his reasons for publishing are a bit too sleazy (as are the real reasons for the royal family's wanting to keep it from going to press).  Whether it's that bad or not I can't say, but I really doubt that he was doing this so as to assist the Princess's sons as he claims.  I would like to believe that the Princess cared too much about her boys to have authorized this type of tell-all book.	2003-10-27
US	31660136	RFW9492TI94YK	0066212855	817493742	Krakatoa: The Day the World Exploded	Books	5	4	5	N	N	This folks is what education is all about!	Some years ago, I happened upon a quirky book by Simon Winchester on the making of the Oxford English Dictionary (The Professor and the Madman).  I fully expected a tedious read, but to my surprise (and others since it was a bestseller) I could hardly put the book down.  <br />Winchester, though, is a trained geologist and in the Krakatoa book, the author displays his academic intellect, but his genuine love of the field.  A lesser author would probably just focus on the more dramatic aspects of the catastrophe.  Winchester, though, takes us from the very beginning (of time) to explain not only the volcanic explosion, but WHY it occurred.  I was shocked to learn that only recently did the scientific community understand or fully accept the concept of shifting Teutonic plates, which is the reason for the eruption.  The author goes far beyond this discussion and I especially enjoyed reading of how the scientists used logical reasoning to prove and disprove the various possibilities earth movements.  <br />I can't say that I can hold onto all the information that is contained in this book, but I am sure that if geology courses were this interesting, fewer geology departments would be closed today in many of our universities.  Don't get me wrong, it is not all academics.  The author provides wonderful anecdotes to personalize the stories, including his participation in a geological expedition to Greenland that played an important part in understanding the Krakatoa eruption.  Finally, the author makes fine effort to emphasize the scope of the tragedy and the possible continuing cultural/political aftershocks in that region of the world.	2003-09-23
US	31660136	RYLYT1EOT3GKE	1401397476	764274447	The Teammates: A Portrait Of Friendship	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A story that the non-sports fan can enjoy.	While enjoying this latest of David Halberstam's many books, I was conflicted as to how to understand Ted Williams.  Is he the Nietzche \\"superman\\" or is he better explained by Alfred Adler's inferiority complex?  Williams was by any measure mistreated by the Boston press, but his personality style can only be admired by those who did not have to live with him on a daily basis.  To his credit, he seemed to admit his shortcomings later in life, but likely too late for him to change.  The author notes the often cited analogies of the \\"Splendid Splinter\\" with \\"The Duke,\\" John Wayne.  But this was an analogy to Wayne's fictional, on-screen western characters, not Wayne the person.  John Wayne was as sociable a person as one could find, and he could be brow beaten on the movie set (e.g., director John Ford).  <br />The book, though, is not written to uphold Williams myths.  Halberstam, through the lives of Williams' \\"boys\\" (Dom DiMaggio, Johnny Pesky, and Bobby Doerr) tells an emotional story of friendship that has endured for decades despite various personalities, and living in different regions of the country.  The \\"boys\\" are friends not simply because of their connection with Williams.  It is easy to see that they would have maintained a connection because of who they are.  They make this book so inviting to even the non-sports fan.  Their stories would have been of interest if they had not been teammates, but former classmates, neighbors, or co-workers.  The three all have an inspirational story to tell.<br />Of the four, however, I think that Williams is the only one who learned the least from their mutual experiences.  I may not have the right to say that, but it's what I gathered from the book.  His is a tragic story.  He was so intent on always being right, that he refused to try to hit to left field when the St. Lois Cardinals gave him that opening during his only World Series appearance (he later shredded a letter of advice sent to him by Ty Cobb on how to beatthe Cardinal shift).  He was also less than devoted to becoming a better defensive player. <br />Don't take these comments the wrong way.  I believe that Ted Williams is one of the great hitters of all time.  I am sorry to not have had the chance to have seen him play.  But I contrast his desire to become the greatest hitter of all time with the person whom I (and many others) consider as the greatest pitcher of all time, Sandy Koufax.  Jane Levy's 2002 biography gives us a person who understood his trade as completely as Williams, but Koufax became the greatest without needing to achieve that goal to feel better about himself.<br />The most memorable part of the book was the mention of how Williams did not seem to know how to handle smooth times.  No problem was so small, that he could not enlarge; or so large, that Ted could not make worse.  Sadly, Williams' story is one of reaping what you sow.  In death, two of his adult children have him frozen and perhaps headless, a victim of the pseudo science of mortuary cryogenics.  He was not saved as a child of an alcoholic father and a neglectful mother, and he gained no freedom in death.	2003-09-05
US	31660136	R35EB991YJ6SGV	0064473473	428641147	Big Mouth & Ugly Girl	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Entertaining for teens and adults.	I am an adult trying to find books of interest and appropriateness for my children.  \\"Big Mouth...\\" was a book that would seem to interest high school age readers and their parents.  Other reviews give the story line, so this need not be repeated here.  However, what I found most interesting was the author's taking polar opposite characters and staying with them until their lives intersect.<br />The more dynamic of the two is Ursula, who develops from a loner showing a tough (but not a bully) exterior to her peers and family, into a person who accepts social involvement.  Whereas, Matt is very socially oriented, but unable to find accept his internal fears.  Ursula does participate in team sports as perhaps a means to find a social outlet, but she plays the game strictly as an individual.  Matt writes plays and stories, as perhaps a means of self expression, but keeps the material humorous so as to avoid exposing his real self.  From these opposite ends, the story brings the characters together to an acceptable conclusion.<br />Parents should know that the adults in the story are not presented very favorably, but remember that the story is told exclusively from the point of view of the teenagers.  Also, some of the unfavorable aspects of the adults change as the characters mature.<br />Finally, there are three areas in the book using unpleasant language.  However, the language is not gratuitous and is used when the character is in a very stressful condition.  The reader may want to consider whether this language was realistic, and appropriate for the literary value of the story.  Also, given the two types of personalities in this story, the young reader may want to ponder which, if either, of these characters best reflects the reader's personality style.  If the reader's personality style is different, what would be a character for the story that better fits your style?  There are many aspects of this book for lively discussion.	2003-07-22
US	31660136	R2K1YXE0XTY8GF	0812971116	925609513	Why Are We at War?	Books	4	13	16	N	N	A well reasoned argument.	I am not necessarily a fan of Norman Mailer.  I recall Dick Cavett once saying that when Norman Mailer sits down, he needs two chairs, one for him, and one for his ego.  That said, I thought this book, which should be more rightly seen as a pamphlet, had enough thought provoking, and rationally based arguments to enlighten the average citizen on why the U.S. is in Iraq.  Unlike some other talking heads, the author makes it clear that these are his opinions and not based on unstated facts.  <br />The author notes the influence of radical conservatives such as Paul Wolfowitz, Dick Cheney, and others in the government who subscribe to the concept of an American empire, which is, he believes, the reason for war.  This decision to extend the American authority is either due to perverse greed, or an honest belief that America must save the world.  Mailer also postulates that even though Iraq had nothing to do with 9/11, President Bush seems to have reasoned that,<BR> If terrorism is evil and must be destroyed, and<BR> Saddam Hussein is evil, then<BR> Saddam Hussein must be destroyed.  Ergo, we fight in Iraq because of 9/11.<br />Frankly, the belief that this may be the operative syllogism (despite the obvious logical flaws and policy inconsistencies with other state leaders) makes more sense then any other reason for why Mr. Bush believes we should be in Iraq (it's the same theme of a popular country song and to many letters to the editor favoring the war).  That Bush continually changes stories on his stated reasons for entering war, and other evidence to support him does not appear to exist, gives credence to Mailer's conclusions.  <br />Mailer's point on American's anger toward immigration was under developed.  To the question of why others in the world hate us so, consider how offensive are some long time Americans to immigrants, whom they fear will change the nature of this country.  English only laws are one symptom of this hysteria.  Also remember the anger expressed towards Japan when some thought that country seemed intent on buying what they did not win in war.  This is similar (right or wrong) to what other cultures feel toward the infiltration of American culture in their land.  Now multiply this fear several times because the U.S. also has the military and economic might to force an influence where it may not be fully desired.  <br />Mailer does fill the rest of his book with random thoughts on various issues, some relevant, others less so, but it's a quick read and does not do damage to his central thesis.  And despite what one may think about Mailer, he gives every indication that his arguments are based on a sincere desire to help Americans think straight about what is happening around us and to preserve freedom.	2003-07-18
US	31660136	RMYAPXRCYFQH8	0670032204	842385664	Robert E. Lee (Penguin Lives)	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Trying to penetrate the Marble Man.	I am not familiar with the author, Roy Blount, from his previous writings, but I believe that he showed himself quite an able biographer with this latest edition of the Penguin Lives series.  In some ways, his assignment was the most difficult of characters to study.  Robert E. Lee is one of the more enigmatic figures in American history, but it is hard to say why he is not just a footnote instead of a figure of reverence, to some folks.  <br />Unlike, say Lincoln or Jefferson, he wrote very little beyond chatty personal letters and so we cannot study his writings and speeches to better understand his character and development (the exception is his often quoted statement of following his state of Virginia if she chooses secession or union.  Curiously, those who mostly cite this statement fail to read the clause Lee also inserts of his belief that secession is doubtfully Constitutional.  Blount gives the full quote).  Unlike Grant and Napoleon, his orders of battle were usually vague and (on its face) uninspired (except when given to superior general such as Jackson, and Stuart, as has been noted in numerous other biographies and histories of the Civil War).  <br />Lee is noted for some spectacular victories, but he also can be recalled for equally spectacular failures and it is doubtful that his most famous strategies would have worked over more astute generals rather than McClellan, Burnside, and Hooker.  Just imagine his splitting his army against Sherman, or Grant or leaving himself without a line of retreat against these gentlemen? <br />But, Lee's endearment is mostly traceable to the paucity of insight into his character.  He is there for everyone to read what they want to in his person.  Blount takes this opportunity to speculate into Lee's psyche by considering the influence on him by his parents, one of whom was an American hero, but a neglectful-embarrassing father; the other a virtuous mother, but emotionally-physically dependent on young Robert.  Blountis not a psychologist, but as opposed to other biographers with no significant psychological training (see e.g., Doris Kearns Goodwin's bio on Lyndon Johnson), he does not try to insert this form of speculation as fact.  The bulk of this thesis is reserved for a section titled, \\"Speculation.\\"  <br />As a person with clinical training, I found his psychological notations perfectly reasonable.  And let's face it, those who only see goodness and deity in Lee (see e.g., Jeffrey Shaara's pathetically simplistic \\"historical\\" novels) are also just speculating.  There is little left that I can see to write about Lee.  However, I think the more interesting question for future writing is the psychological, sociological, and anthropological aspects of those who use Lee as the symbol for a \\"pure\\" society that, in fact, never existed.  To clarify, Blount does not attack Lee, he is simply seeking to understand Lee.  The author seems to be an admirer of the general, but not blind with passion.<br />I also recommend Tony Horwitz, \\"Confederates in the Attic;\\" Emory Thomas, \\"Robert E. Lee,\\" and especially, William Davis, \\"Look Away!  A History of the Confederate States of American.\\"	2003-07-18
US	31660136	R3BLUL7KWQF5RY	0446315001	728293888	The Lilies of the Field	Books	5	5	6	N	N	An inspiring, quick read.	This is the book on which the Academy award winning movie was based.  Listed as for \\"young adults,\\" I still found it to be a delightful read for summer's train ride to work.  The movie, by the way, is rather loyal to the book's story, but improves it in some areas.  The book, though, gives the reader more background on Homer Smith (the protagonist) and the subtleties of his character.  The author also better explains the reasons for Sister Marthe's obsession with building the church and her effect on the community.  The writing flows smoothly and the author does not use the religious characters for proselytizing.  I would recommend this book for any secular or non-secular reader of middle grade age and higher.	2003-07-08
US	31660136	R2AL5KAP8CFGMZ	0701171197	139671172	Michelangelo and the Pope's Ceiling	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A journey into the past.	Few do not know of Michelangelo's almost miraculous frescos in the Sistine Chapel.  The author, Ross King, provides a nearly visual journey to the artistic project that began nearly five hundred years ago.  With literary clarity not often found in non fiction, the author gives succinct, but never dull details of the Sistine masterpiece.  The author is obviously in his element when giving interpretations and rationale for the various designs.  <br />I did not, however, find myself able to fully comprehend the process of fresco painting due to my limited understanding of this medium, but I did not find myself cast adrift.  I similarly do not understand Einstein equations, but I can appreciate the genius behind the formulations.  Michelangelo is to art, what Einstein is to science.  The same, though, cannot be said of Pope Julius II, who commissioned the work.  The author, though, resists either canonizing the artist, or demonizing the pope. <br />Of special interest to me is the author's attention to other characters such as the master artist Rafael.  Also, the author provides logical evidence to refute many of the commonly held beliefs of Michelangelo's fresco and of his personal life.  Part of the book's fun is reading these tidbits, so I will not give examples.  I utilized the internet to obtain close up and whole pictures of the work.  For those of us who have not had the pleasure of seeing the masterpiece in person, this book is especially welcomed.	2003-06-27
US	31660136	RUR92SA3QP2DS	0895261405	647115467	Dereliction of Duty: The Eyewitness Account of How President Bill Clinton Compromised America's Long-Term National Security	Books	1	8	24	N	N	Rating this book was a waste of a perfectly good star.	The Lt. Colonel-author's book is published by the Regnery comp. that is devoted to philippics about Bill Clinton especially, and anything Democratic in general.  The author had no particularly important administrative role to the Clinton foreign or military policy development other than tagging along with the president, but he seems to consider this chore as making him as knowledgeable as Kissinger, Dulles, or Gen. Marshall in knowing what decisions should be made.<br />Facts were not much of a concern to this author.  Never mind that Bush I began the Somalia affair, and the reduction of military.  Or that the Republicans controlled the Congress and assisted in the reduction of the military bases under Clinton.  Also, if it was so easy to get Bin Laden, then why after sending an entire army for him has the current president still not found the guy?  And did I mention that the author was merely a tag along.  I understand that he is planning a sequel on the mismanagement of McDonalds restaurant (hey, he buys happy meals, what more does he need to know).<br />I didn't purchase the book, so Regnery made no money off me.  But, I will consider a book by them on the revelations of the Clinton's White House gardener, or pastry chef when those books become available.  I'll bet you that Bill once callously pulled a petal off a rose in the White House garden, and you can only imagine what he did with the custard from the White House eclairs!!	2003-06-16
US	31660136	R2VHNRY63VQFRG	0060520841	148709607	Bias: A CBS Insider Exposes How the Media Distort the News	Books	1	100	184	N	N	speed reader's delight	This is a very clever book on developing speed reading.  The author disguised it as a nonfiction account of the \\"liberal\\" news media, but as I discovered, if you only read the pages in which the author provides verifiable facts to support his reasoning, then you can finish the book before moving from the library book shelf.  Imagine, two hundred pages in five minutes!  I almost got finger blisters turning the pages so quickly.<br />I learned years ago in college that when reading a non-fiction book, other than, let's say, most memoirs, that if the book is without reference materials, a bibliography, or notes that allows the reader to verify the information, then the book is most likely a sham.<br />\\"Bias\\" has zero references that would allow the curious reader to independently authenticate the writer's claims.  I also did not notice at least semi-complete transcripts to allow for the writer's alleged quotes to be understood in context.  The author is strictly operating on a \\"trust me\\" basis.  If that's good enough for you, then I have a 70's VW to sell you (only driven once, really would I lie!).<br />Regardless of your political orientation, the author should desire an intelligent audience.  By stating his views as proven facts, the author violates the trust given by his audience to treat them with intellectual respect.  Another book, \\"What Liberal Media?  The Truth About Bias and the News\\" by Eric Alterman, actually considers the accusations of the Bias author and finds the claims lacking substance.  Sure, Alterman is a liberal, but he gives a full forty pages of references (roughly a fifth of the Bias book's total pages) to back up his claims, and to allow the reader to look for her/himself.  In sum, if you want to know who is \\"Biased\\" consider who is preferring to hide the information vs. who gives it to you to make up your own mind.  I don't have to agree with all of Alterman's conclusions, but at least he gives me the opportunity to judge the facts on my own.wn.	2003-06-12
US	31660136	R1QBHF69GJSUDE	0765703319	168071796	Understanding the Borderline Mother: Helping Her Children Transcend the Intense, Unpredictable, and Volatile Relationship	Books	5	41	47	N	N	I wasn't the crazy one after all!	As a person formerly married to an undiagnosed borderline personality disorder, I can attest to the fact that the disorder can have devastating impact on others, especially the children.  The book was particularly helpful to me in providing insight into why, and what I went through.  By the time I finally got out, I had been questioning my own sanity.  The book notes this as a common reaction of those involved with a borderline.  Unfortunately, I was not able to rescue my sons.  The Virginia court system is heavily biased toward women, and (as mentioned in the book as a common personality characteristic), the BPD mother presents in a way that makes charges against her seem petty and unbelievable.  The court gave the boys to her, she turned them against me, and they went from A-students with me, to drop outs and fully dependent on her.  <br />The book is written for the general, but educated public.  The referencing of clinical studies will be helpful for the more serious student.  It is too bad that not enough clinicians understand the dynamics of the disorder, it could have made a big difference in my life.	2003-06-05
US	31660136	R2TI518R27XDLB	0440229499	859351214	Gathering Blue (Readers Circle)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A quality work.	I'm an adult reader, who wanted to know about this book in anticipation for my children reading it.  Similarly, I had read the Giver, by the same author.  Although, I preferred the tension of the Giver's story line, Gathering Blue had a lighter, but still mysterious quality.  The books contrast nicely with each other.  I especially think that the endings are worth a comparison for readers.<br />I wonder if the author gave different endings due to how she believed a male (the main character from the Giver) would react, as opposed to how a female (the main character of Gathering Blue) would react.  I preferred the Giver's ending as more realistic and powerful, but I'm a male.  Overall, the book is very readable, thought provoking, and entertaining.  I highly recommend it for fifth graders, through adult age.  There are no graphic scenes disturbing to a young child, but there are some scenes inferring harm to young children and their parents.	2003-05-21
