US	31849484	R2Y73K1ZGT7NLI	1594200637	246291978	On Beauty	Books	3	4	25	N	N	splendo-gloria	in a plot that explicity engems howard's end twists of the river and flow of the ice-berg, on beauty by zadie smith explores the 21st century's malaises, spiritual diseases and our heart-ectomies: the emotional tsunami of adultery, the sulfuric bleakness of identity crisis, clowns laughing in our sleep, hyenas exposing themselves in force, interracial conflictica, torrid religious fanatacism, its foam in the mind, its cancer in the spirit.  there is the belsey family, its father is an englishman teaching art history at a university, elaborating on remebrandt's oiling dim and his [rembrandt's] retreat into shadow.  then there is his wife, kiki, pragmatic, ignoring intellectum's zinc and silver, their two children, one, jerome, devout, praying, the altar an immaculate block of ivory, the prayer book his jewel and ruby, two, zora, a compassionate advocate for social justice, combatting bloated greed and gorillan injustice, lastly there is levi, fully in the grip of the lure of the fantasy image of a black gangster, rap music hearing, gold chains wearing, slang employing in quantity.  jerome the christian yields fully to the tsunami of venus' dream as he pursues the daughter of howard's blade-enemy: monty kipps.  thus begins an interfamilial descent into the cauldron, blasting in chlorox, preponderant in methane.  howard's wife then attaches herself to mrs kipps thus adding kerosene to the embers, the families more enmeshed, more enspiraled, debates having, affrimative action's elephants trampling, the gash, the foam and the scimitar.  ultimately it is a successful book, well-written, absent of a naive descent into cliche, also funny, wild and ramping.<br /><br />author of Lorelei Pursued and Wrestles with God	2005-09-18
US	31849484	R2RNXR25FR69FK	0743226712	53542661	1776	Books	5	1	6	N	N	!!!WONDER-CLOUD!!!	not only known for his great voice that has narrated so many documentaries and introduced so many americans to the swirl-winds and strike-tumult of history, he is also one of our generations most popular historians, employing a style easily accessible to the pleb.  admittedly he is bound to our prejudices, obligated to slightly glorify the founders of our country, covering up washington's slaughter of mutineers, his ransack of the treasury as president, his excessive leech-greed, taking squatters to court for settling on his massive amounts of property - in spite of this he approaches objectivity's block and concrete.  his portraits of king george are bright, flashing, limpid, square, a madman incompetent in the affairs of diplomacy, despising his subjects' natural yearnings for freedom.  he discloses through private correspondence washington's private doubts of the war's inevitable embrace of victo-triumph and the specters that molested him in his dreams as faithlessum's raw gorge stalked him.  occasionally he mentions the providence of God's wise fortune and glaring twists of fate that aided our grim rebellion against the hostile mercantile policy that ultimately inspired our countrymen to take to the bayonet and shed our blood for the sake of management, direction and vision.<br /><br />author of Lorelei Pursued and Wrestles with God	2005-09-17
US	31849484	R3RSDPR4KLK11Q	0374526788	572934873	Opened Ground: Selected Poems, 1966-1996	Books	5	0	11	N	N	!!!THRILL-SPASM!!!	strong poems, there is a sadness and a resignation of fog that permeates these poems.  this is a melancholy man, one for whom the all-pervading glue of inaction and paralysis bounds him to a bleak world, soiled and grey and drab.  this is a weary poet, too nauseated with reality's bruised soldiers, slovenly rudeness, the uncouth glutton, the debauched fiend.  i enjoy him, immerse myself in his dust-gloom, his inability to soar into elation and falcon-freedom.<br /><br />author of Lorelei Pursued and Wrestles with God	2005-09-17
US	31849484	R2P72A3Z6AK818	158322713X	52174399	A Man Without a Country	Books	3	5	35	N	N	!!!JUBILATA!!!	although his biting pessimism may not be as trollish as it once was, no longer as acerbic and scraping, nevertheless depite having witnessed 82 encroachments of frost and 82 retreats of sargeant cold into the embrace of spring, kurt vonnegut still attacks the antartican compassionateless bogs of the bush administration with sharp claw.  he blames us for invading iraq for hideo-malicious reasons (the gratification of our gremlin-addiction to oil) and thus drowning the moral fabric of our nation in rats and feces.  his is a dark wit, one that sees sharks and boars in omnia, who looks on the face of man and rather than see michelangelo's fabulous david, he instead sees the rage-whirl of picasso's angst.  i sometimes believe his bleak snake-pessimism is too outside convention to be accurate, too dim, too much bunk, too much bison but others might find him a flash-joy and illuminating.<br /><br />author of Lorelei Pursued and Wrestles with God	2005-09-17
US	31849484	R1DZ5WYHKTUG04	0374125384	877350780	Collected Poems	Books	5	4	12	N	N	!!!FIRE-VERVE!!!	a creative poet, one whose syntactical leaps into innovation forever shine and shock-thrill, an aggressive poet, one who breeds the leopard, who polishes the claw, who is quite willing to gash, hate-slice and bedevil.  known for having encouraged silvia plath to allow her ear to be bitten on their first date - his odd love poems in some of his first collection of poetry a gem-marvel into obscurity and tangled emotion.  he is a brilliant surveyor of the jungle of irrationality - truly entertaining in his blush with the minotaur of tradition, a mangled mind of pure scourge and lava.<br /><br />author of Lorelei Pursued and Wrestles with God	2005-09-17
US	31849484	RS4BNSOBJ7KFT	0345428838	547341365	Star Wars, Episode III - Revenge of the Sith	Books	3	0	8	N	N	fluff	annakin's conversion to the dark side was not convincing.  the corruption of the human is one of the most fascinating and one of the most difficult subjects in literature to portray but this film flops in its attempt.  i am not a star wars fan.  all star wars films have too much fighting but this film has the most.  i enjoy the scenery, the grand scale and the monstrous characters but the dialogue always fails.  there should have been more wrangling in the senate.  my senses need feed.  i feel my serum gushing through crysto-canyons, splashing against knife-rocks, surging amidst storms of obsidian.  i feel green gargoyles fire-breathing in jumbo, their eyes aflame with shock.  banshees, victims of the thrash-night, howl through my scapes, refusing submission until their demands are gratified in copia.<br /><br />kyle foley, author of lorelei pursued and wrestles with God	2005-06-14
US	31849484	R26R779NS13EHC	0141181265	220749293	Finnegans Wake (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	5	4	13	N	N	!!!MANGLEMENTO!!!	to mix among the manglemento of chaos, to expose man's larceny, his lust-bulls and his absurdity, to portray the bipedal tool-smith as corrupt, mentally handicapped and dire - this then is f&igrave;nnegans wake, categorically the most convincing portrait of absurdity ever written.  but what humor!  what laughter!  although this work concerns pessimism and the inevitability of crash and foam it nevertheless resounds in a splurge of joke!  this baffling maze, once understood, cannot help but entertain us as we watch it meander from one scene to the next, each portrait as absurd as the one proceeding.  begin with the seventh chapter, the easiest chapter.  immerse yourself in its fold as you read shaun castigate his brother as he writes a slanderous history of his life.  then move onto part three chapter one where we see shaun in action, in a bar, boasting among his compatriots, attacking shem, narrating the story of the ant and the grasshopper, his speech slurred, his mind jumbled in chaotica.  with that you should have the ability to then master this outrageous tome dedicated to exposing man's most profligate urges.  here man is a lecher, incapable of beautezza, nowhere judicious, circumspection a thing of nihlum.  here only nonsense governs the reason as the men herein spout only mangled sentences, shouting mostly, helplessly inept in their decorum.  it is a bold work, radical, original, rarely imitated in its shape, color or architecture.<br /><br />author of Lorelei Pursued and Wrestles with God	2005-06-08
US	31849484	R2KTLEPQJQGZGJ	0679722769	705442339	Ulysses	Books	5	4	12	N	N	!!!DAZZLO-SHINE!!!	harlequin!  poseidon!  here is a work that not only achieved more leaps in linguistic innovation at its time but also, the sun beaming in profuse shower, a wild reinvention of plot and a rugged onslaught against tradition.  joyce uses this ancient tale of a man's homecoming so as to put the microscope on the human and analyze him and all his cohorts, his battalions and his industry!  he studies mankind with a depth that no author before or since has achieved.  he delves into the conscience, intermixes himself in its folds and strata, writes what he sees and leave us with a vast resource with which to consider, study and conjecture!  but not only that - not just a study, also a baffling surprise of linguistic advance!  each chapter is radically different from the previous!  each chapter is coherent unto itself, set apart from the rest of the book, each chapter employs a different style, concerns a different subject, each chapter riots, blazes and fumes, each chapter is flash-jolt of mental sundance.  as we read the book we watch joyce grow and develop as an artist since we know that he wrote the chapters in chronological order.  the third chapter, proteus, his first endeavor into the morph of linguistic innovation, seems awkward, almost a failure.  later on he makes yet another bold stab with the sirens chapter yet once again we feel that perhaps he has not utilized his full resource of verbal platinum but then we watch him triumph in totalica with the circe chapter, a real ambush of drama, as he thus becomes the full-fledged master of english that he is known for.  in the ithaca chapter once he again he amazes us not only with his skillfull use of vocabulary but also his splurging curiosity and his megalo-titantic wealth of knowledge.  then finally we read the penelope chapter, a piece that perhaps probes the folds and recesses of the soul more so than any other piece in literature.  it is a trophy of poetry, a capitalization on the self and a robust affirmation of life.<br /><br />kyle foley, author of Lorelei Pursued and Wrestles with Godlife.  <br /> <br />kyle foley, author of Lorelei Pursued and Wrestles with God	2005-06-08
US	31849484	R13AUJYJKI3VTB	0141182806	705442339	Ulysses (Penguin Modern Classics)	Books	5	2	6	N	N	!!!DAZZLO-SHINE!!!	harlequin!  poseidon!  here is a work that not only achieved more leaps in linguistic innovation at its time but also, the sun beaming in profuse shower, a wild reinvention of plot and a rugged onslaught against tradition.  joyce uses this ancient tale of a man's homecoming so as to put the microscope on the human and analyze him and all his cohorts, his battalions and his industry!  he studies mankind with a depth that no author before or since has achieved.  he delves into the conscience, intermixes himself in its folds and strata, writes what he sees and leave us with a vast resource with which to consider, study and conjecture!  but not only that - not just a study, also a baffling surprise of linguistic advance!  each chapter is radically different from the previous!  each chapter is coherent unto itself, set apart from the rest of the book, each chapter employs a different style, concerns a different subject, each chapter riots, blazes and fumes, each chapter is flash-jolt of mental sundance.  as we read the book we watch joyce grow and develop as an artist since we know that he wrote the chapters in chronological order.  the third chapter, proteus, his first endeavor into the morph of linguistic innovation, seems awkward, almost a failure.  later on he makes yet another bold stab with the sirens chapter yet once again we feel that perhaps he has not utilized his full resource of verbal platinum but then we watch him triumph in totalica with the circe chapter, a real ambush of drama, as he thus becomes the full-fledged master of english that he is known for.  in the ithaca chapter once he again he amazes us not only with his skillfull use of vocabulary but also his splurging curiosity and his megalo-titantic wealth of knowledge.  then finally we read the penelope chapter, a piece that perhaps probes the folds and recesses of the soul more so than any other piece in literature.  it is a trophy of poetry, a capitalization on the self and a robust affirmation of life.<br /><br />kyle foley, author of Lorelei Pursued and Wrestles with Godlife.  <br /> <br />kyle foley, author of Lorelei Pursued and Wrestles with God	2005-06-08
US	31849484	R31SQY8XO37IUF	0140422226	628963643	The Complete Poems (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	8	25	N	N	!!!EMERALD!!!	not only the greatest selling poet who has been dead for more than fifty years, not only the poet whose translations are regularly read abroad, not only the poet whose name has in-spired countless others, not only the poet who freed us from the manacles of rhyme and decapitated the tyranny of meter but also a man of enthusiasm, a titan, a man whose soul floods with belch, fume and quake, a man who confronts the ravenous centaurs of humdrum and blugeons them swiftly in a spasmo of frenzy-fire, a wanderer, a searcher, one whose mind travels vig-orously throughout the cosmimosa and embellishes it with jac-inths of thought and blooms of popy! not only a man of gargan-tuan passions, one who rages in the face of metallic storm but also a man whose depressions, fogs, glooms and sensitivity to flowers, softness and the defenseless bloom in stark heart-throb.  no doubt he is a poet well worth a place beside such other titano-giants such as goethe, milton and homer, for he too sings the song of war, his book is a chanson of bellum for he sings of the battle of the passions, the climaximum of the emo-ceans, he challenges the raw specters of gash, their eyes oozing of slime-drab and rather than succumb to the oxen of indiffer-ence he instead triumphs over the gray and his book thus re-sounds in shinning claria!  his is an adventure of thought sur-real in its gusto, jumping in its excitica and wild in its leap of ideas!  thank celestium that he liberated us poets from the ab-surd manacles of rhyme and meter and we can now surge through horiza with countless new devices, metaphors and similies awaiting in our platoons!  he is the cougar of innova-tion, the lion of spasmo and the giant of vision.<br /><br />kyle foley, author of Lorelei Pursued and Wrestles with God	2005-06-07
US	31849484	R26KXU9CEL1BX6	0553211161	602341169	Leaves of Grass (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	4	12	N	N	!!!EMERALD!!!	leaves of grass<br /><br /> not only the greatest selling poet who has been dead for more than fifty years, not only the poet whose translations are regularly read abroad, not only the poet whose name has in-spired countless others, not only the poet who freed us from the manacles of rhyme and decapitated the tyranny of meter but also a man of enthusiasm, a titan, a man whose soul floods with belch, fume and quake, a man who confronts the ravenous centaurs of humdrum and blugeons them swiftly in a spasmo of frenzy-fire, a wanderer, a searcher, one whose mind travels vig-orously throughout the cosmimosa and embellishes it with jac-inths of thought and blooms of popy! not only a man of gargan-tuan passions, one who rages in the face of metallic storm but also a man whose depressions, fogs, glooms and sensitivity to flowers, softness and the defenseless bloom in stark heart-throb.  no doubt he is a poet well worth a place beside such other titano-giants such as goethe, milton and homer, for he too sings the song of war, his book is a chanson of bellum for he sings of the battle of the passions, the climaximum of the emo-ceans, he challenges the raw specters of gash, their eyes oozing of slime-drab and rather than succumb to the oxen of indiffer-ence he instead triumphs over the gray and his book thus re-sounds in shinning claria!  his is an adventure of thought sur-real in its gusto, jumping in its excitica and wild in its leap of ideas!  thank celestium that he liberated us poets from the ab-surd manacles of rhyme and meter and we can now surge through horiza with countless new devices, metaphors and similies awaiting in our platoons!  he is the cougar of innova-tion, the lion of spasmo and the giant of vision.<br /><br />author of Lorelei Pursued and Wrestles with God	2005-06-07
US	31849484	R1QET4MVOT3TIX	1566190266	602341169	Leaves of Grass	Books	5	2	4	N	N	!!!EMERALD!!!	not only the greatest selling poet who has been dead for more than fifty years, not only the poet whose translations are regularly read abroad, not only the poet whose name has in-spired countless others, not only the poet who freed us from the manacles of rhyme and decapitated the tyranny of meter but also a man of enthusiasm, a titan, a man whose soul floods with belch, fume and quake, a man who confronts the ravenous centaurs of humdrum and blugeons them swiftly in a spasmo of frenzy-fire, a wanderer, a searcher, one whose mind travels vig-orously throughout the cosmimosa and embellishes it with jac-inths of thought and blooms of popy! not only a man of gargan-tuan passions, one who rages in the face of metallic storm but also a man whose depressions, fogs, glooms and sensitivity to flowers, softness and the defenseless bloom in stark heart-throb.  no doubt he is a poet well worth a place beside such other titano-giants such as goethe, milton and homer, for he too sings the song of war, his book is a chanson of bellum for he sings of the battle of the passions, the climaximum of the emo-ceans, he challenges the raw specters of gash, their eyes oozing of slime-drab and rather than succumb to the oxen of indiffer-ence he instead triumphs over the gray and his book thus re-sounds in shinning claria!  his is an adventure of thought sur-real in its gusto, jumping in its excitica and wild in its leap of ideas!  thank celestium that he liberated us poets from the ab-surd manacles of rhyme and meter and we can now surge through horiza with countless new devices, metaphors and similies awaiting in our platoons!  he is the cougar of innova-tion, the lion of spasmo and the giant of vision.<br /><br />kyle foley, author of Lorelei Pursued and Wrestles with God	2005-06-07
US	31849484	R4DQCBJU6M70Z	0965231267	602341169	Leaves of Grass: The Deathbed Edition	Books	5	2	9	N	N	!!!EMERALD!!!	not only the greatest selling poet who has been dead for more than fifty years, not only the poet whose translations are regularly read abroad, not only the poet whose name has in-spired countless others, not only the poet who freed us from the manacles of rhyme and decapitated the tyranny of meter but also a man of enthusiasm, a titan, a man whose soul floods with belch, fume and quake, a man who confronts the ravenous centaurs of humdrum and blugeons them swiftly in a spasmo of frenzy-fire, a wanderer, a searcher, one whose mind travels vig-orously throughout the cosmimosa and embellishes it with jac-inths of thought and blooms of popy! not only a man of gargan-tuan passions, one who rages in the face of metallic storm but also a man whose depressions, fogs, glooms and sensitivity to flowers, softness and the defenseless bloom in stark heart-throb.  no doubt he is a poet well worth a place beside such other titano-giants such as goethe, milton and homer, for he too sings the song of war, his book is a chanson of bellum for he sings of the battle of the passions, the climaximum of the emo-ceans, he challenges the raw specters of gash, their eyes oozing of slime-drab and rather than succumb to the oxen of indiffer-ence he instead triumphs over the gray and his book thus re-sounds in shinning claria!  his is an adventure of thought sur-real in its gusto, jumping in its excitica and wild in its leap of ideas!  thank celestium that he liberated us poets from the ab-surd manacles of rhyme and meter and we can now surge through horiza with countless new devices, metaphors and similies awaiting in our platoons!  he is the cougar of innova-tion, the lion of spasmo and the giant of vision.<br /><br />kyle foley, author of Lorelei Pursued and Wrestles with God	2005-06-07
US	31849484	R6WQ1N3X6ETT1	0140424393	432838089	Paradise Lost (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	0	14	N	N	!!!VERVE!!!	what joy to read galaxian epics, large in their characters, profound in their language, jumbo-gigantic in their theme!  for this work concerns nothing more than the salvation of mankind, the source of all our toxica, the origins of reality's thrash of contradiction, decapitation of sense, the justice of God's infi-nite bewilderment and a host of other themes, some limpid, some latent.  yet the true irony of this story, although milton eventually loses interest in him after his hallow triumph is greeted in inferno with the hiss of snakes, is that the author's sympathies, obsessions and fascination lies most in the charac-ter of satan!  for did not milton jail-suffer at the hands of the restoration of the house of stuart?  the blind english word-smith thus explores in depth this cosmic character of rebellion!  for he himself most likely also from time to time longed to attack authority, shirk government decrees and restore to power the creed that he thought would best help mankind rose-flourish  and ivory-prosper!  here we witness satan's frustration, his nails of soul, his menace of catastrophe!  here we read of satan's inappeasable torrent of rats as he witnesses adam in the garden, content, at ease, pax surrounding him and satan thus languishes, yearning for the former splendo-times he passed in celestium.  and when adam does finally eat of the apple and is thus exiled from eden's rapture - what hir&ograve;shimum!  what blight!  for he laments his fall from grace in a torrent of mental cacophony and quickly sets about to blame eve for his slither among adders!  but the work's most rubylicious feature is its language!  how rarely do we encounter whole stories written in iambic pentameter verse!  and milton embellishes his cosmic tale with all sorts of unexpected syntax, rioting images and flaxen parallels!<br /><br />author of Lorelei Pursued and Wrestles with God	2005-06-07
US	31849484	RSF3PK4SXFIQT	0393962938	432838089	Paradise Lost (Norton Critical Editions)	Books	5	1	3	N	N	!!!VERVE!!!	what joy to read galaxian epics, large in their characters, profound in their language, jumbo-gigantic in their theme!  for this work concerns nothing more than the salvation of mankind, the source of all our toxica, the origins of reality's thrash of contradiction, decapitation of sense, the justice of God's infinite bewilderment and a host of other themes, some limpid, some latent.  yet the true irony of this story, although milton eventually loses interest in him after his hallow triumph is greeted in inferno with the hiss of snakes, is that the author's sympathies, obsessions and fascination lies most in the character of satan!  for did not milton jail-suffer at the hands of the restoration of the house of stuart?  the blind english word-smith thus explores in depth this cosmic character of rebellion!  for he himself most likely also from time to time longed to attack authority, shirk government decrees and restore to power the creed that he thought would best help mankind rose-flourish  and ivory-prosper!  here we witness satan's frustration, his nails of soul, his menace of catastrophe!  here we read of satan's inappeasable torrent of rats as he witnesses adam in the garden, content, at ease, pax surrounding him and satan thus languishes, yearning for the former splendo-times he passed in celestium.  and when adam does finally eat of the apple and is thus exiled from eden's rapture - what hir&ograve;shimum!  what blight!  for he laments his fall from grace in a torrent of mental cacophony and quickly sets about to blame eve for his slither among adders!  but the work's most rubylicious feature is its language!  how rarely do we encounter whole stories written in iambic pentameter verse!  and milton embellishes his cosmic tale with all sorts of unexpected syntax, rioting images and flaxen parallels!<br /><br />author of Lorelei Pursued and Wrestles with God	2005-06-07
US	31849484	R2ZLNG4S9KTIQG	1401302009	152649726	The Washingtonienne	Books	3	5	38	N	N	educational	this is a good book to read to learn how not to live your life.  this book is just more evidence that promiscuity is a vice.  i read this book to justify the virtues of chastity and i found ample evidence.  this is a greater moral tale despite the author's intentions and its ending.  it does horrify one to think how many people actually think like she does.  it is also interesting that she has an odd mixture of virtue and vice, almost 90% of her thoughts are jaded but every once in a while a patch of light will shine, she hasn't fully committed herself to the dark side but that could only be because she had to work.<br /><br /> what a creation magnifico is man!  how bliss-flowing in reason en-thrallican, how cream-splashing with an intuishum furioso, how expansive in attributes, how fire-stunning in endowments!  in stealth and subtlety how foutaineskan and minervan!  in accomplishment how like a shimmer-ing, stellar entity, a malleable, supple being, overflowing in abundo-colosso!  in understanding, in comprehension and in invention how like a deity mind-rapt in reverie fabulo, besieged with forms and shapes and vi-sions floweresko.  the ivory of the earth, the jasmine of the plains, the jag-uar of the jungle.  what reward to know him, to understand him, to truly plunge into all his strata nefarious and benevolent, striking of an alloy rich in essence ineffabo and in fuel bounteo.  what magno-trophy to truly com-prehend his motives, the source of his designs and the calculus of his ac-tions.<br /><br />author of lorelei pursued and wrestles with God	2005-06-02
US	31849484	RUNSY3KNRHA66	0767914767	167500313	The Devil Wears Prada a Novel	Books	3	0	7	N	N	educational	i was mostly happy just to read a good story by a 25 year old woman.  it's rare that they write a good story and 30 years ago it might have been unheard of.  her mind was able to explore other areas of thought other than her boss which was educational.  she could have departed from the real story in the middle of the book and written something better by having the protagonist eventually become corrupted by her boss - that would have been better.  in any case it was an informative read.<br /><br /> the actor, glorifying life, encrystalizing drama on record, teaching us the loftiest modes of reaction, the actor, beginning fashions, changing so-ciety's inflections in speech, pursued by paparazzi, the actor, male actors reminding women of the epitome of the masculine gender, testosterone's raw romp, its avalanche of magnum, the actor, the actresses causing men's plasma to flow, their phalanxes to charge, their rockets to combust, the actor, charisma ruby-flowing from their system in dripping blaze, their sparkle-smiles contagious with honey, their eyes a joy-picture to watch, the actor, romanticizing life with their thrillicious panache, their eyes so crysto-miraculo that we insist that beyond horiza beautezza and meaning do indeed bloom in copia.<br /><br />author of lorelei pursued and wrestles with God.	2005-06-02
US	31849484	R2EXM5FQTPTLK8	158743069X	745904315	Real Sex: The Naked Truth about Chastity	Books	4	2	60	N	N	good but flawed	basically her arugment is that you should be chaste because the bible says so.  she doesn't answer why the bible says so.  this is the equivalent of a father saying do this because i said so.  that rarely inspires us to piety.  i believe chastity is a virtue because those who are willing to resist pleasures for the sake of other's happiness are infinitely more enjoyable people to know.  i'm going to write my own essay on the subject. incidentally, lauren is very similar to my favorite female name.  i am thankful that God lead me to the book, any book that praises chastity is a positive.<br /><br />how cobreskan, sharp and magman<br /><br />was my hunger to end my four<br /><br />years of celibacy last night, Lord!<br /><br />to resist the femme's jubilo<br /><br />is to endure the claws of the grizzly,<br /><br />to run the marathon without water,<br /><br />and to walk through a field of mines,<br /><br />and yet how pathetic is my pain in<br /><br />comparison to the jews' nineteen hundred<br /><br />year exile from their homeland, or the<br /><br />russians' endurance of stalin's lust for<br /><br />slavery, or the blacks' hidium beneath<br /><br />the heartless concrete of my ancestors' greed.<br /><br />i do not know what to do.<br /><br />do i pray for deliverance from this cardiatraz,<br /><br />and supplicate for liberation from the bloat-bull,<br /><br />and beg for emancipation from the hex-siren,<br /><br />or do i castigate myself for<br /><br />ignoring the rhodadendra of my blessings,<br /><br />forgetting the macro-abundance of my gifts,<br /><br />and disregarding the fruits of your compassion.<br /><br />author of lorelei pursued and wrestles with God	2005-06-02
US	31849484	R13XKSAOYSM2HR	0060931957	627065254	The Odyssey of Homer	Books	5	2	15	N	N	!!!ROCKETA!!!	homer!  what flow-gush resides in you!  what scintillata and mercury!  what cinder and tumult!  he to me is our globe's greatest author not because he has created the greatest work nor because his copious flux of ideas fill shelves of bookcases but because he completely glostounded his contemporaries and remained the most formidable author perhaps for 24 centuries and still is newly translated with each generation every now and again gracing the bestseller lists!  who among us in the year 4400 will still capture audiences consistently?  who among us will be translated more than a thousand times?  who among us can step out of time so effortlessly the all cultures can identify with our predicament.  perhaps only a handful of works, le recherche, paradise lost, faust and ulysses surpass this seminal work yet who knows if those works' arch-supremican complexica will prove too burdensome for readers two millenia hence.<br /><br /> homer strikes that importance balance between trivium and import, rather than glostound as joyce has with his unmasking of enigmas that few can understand he instead macro-intrigues us by focusing on a struggle more universal in its scope than any other: the struggle to return home and establish one's self in the safe womb of stability!  and the last third of that great work devotes itself exclusively to that moment when odysseus sets foot on ithaca and confronts the suitors in the disguise of a beggar.  how we cannot help but root for this titano-hero!  how we adore watching him outwit the slaves to vice and concupiscence!  how symphio-marvalo is his cleansing of his home from serp&egrave;ntum!  we all strive to secure for ourselves a safe corner on this chattering, infinitely morphing and unstable world yet odysseus' struggle is layered with so much more storms of nails than the common man, even contending with the curse of the sea-god poseidon!<br /><br />author of Lorelei Pursued and Wrestles with God	2005-05-31
US	31849484	RYETAZ00FMKQQ	0801868548	44221725	The Odyssey (Johns Hopkins New Translations from Antiquity)	Books	5	3	14	N	N	!!!ROCKETA!!!	homer!  what flow-gush resides in you!  what scintillata and mercury!  what cinder and tumult!  he to me is our globe's greatest author not because he has created the greatest work nor because his copious flux of ideas fill shelves of bookcases but because he completely glostounded his contemporaries and remained the most formidable author perhaps for 24 centuries and still is newly translated with each generation every now and again gracing the bestseller lists!  who among us in the year 4400 will still capture audiences consistently?  who among us will be translated more than a thousand times?  who among us can step out of time so effortlessly the all cultures can identify with our predicament.  perhaps only a handful of works, le recherche, paradise lost, faust and ulysses surpass this seminal work yet who knows if those works' arch-supremican complexica will prove too burdensome for readers two millenia hence.<br /><br /> homer strikes that importance balance between trivium and import, rather than glostound as joyce has with his unmasking of enigmas that few can understand he instead macro-intrigues us by focusing on a struggle more universal in its scope than any other: the struggle to return home and establish one's self in the safe womb of stability!  and the last third of that great work devotes itself exclusively to that moment when odysseus sets foot on ithaca and confronts the suitors in the disguise of a beggar.  how we cannot help but root for this titano-hero!  how we adore watching him outwit the slaves to vice and concupiscence!  how symphio-marvalo is his cleansing of his home from serp&egrave;ntum!  we all strive to secure for ourselves a safe corner on this chattering, infinitely morphing and unstable world yet odysseus' struggle is layered with so much more storms of nails than the common man, even contending with the curse of the sea-god poseidon!<br /><br />author of Lorelei Pursued and Wrestles with God	2005-05-31
US	31849484	R8YWX45E55PB6	0374525749	627065254	The Odyssey	Books	5	3	16	N	N	!!!ROCKETA!!!	homer!  what flow-gush resides in you!  what scintillata and mercury!  what cinder and tumult!  he to me is our globe's greatest author not because he has created the greatest work nor because his copious flux of ideas fill shelves of bookcases but because he completely glostounded his contemporaries and remained the most formidable author perhaps for 24 centuries and still is newly translated with each generation every now and again gracing the bestseller lists!  who among us in the year 4400 will still capture audiences consistently?  who among us will be translated more than a thousand times?  who among us can step out of time so effortlessly the all cultures can identify with our predicament.  perhaps only a handful of works, le recherche, paradise lost, faust and ulysses surpass this seminal work yet who knows if those works' arch-supremican complexica will prove too burdensome for readers two millenia hence.<br /><br /> homer strikes that importance balance between trivium and import, rather than glostound as joyce has with his unmasking of enigmas that few can understand he instead macro-intrigues us by focusing on a struggle more universal in its scope than any other: the struggle to return home and establish one's self in the safe womb of stability!  and the last third of that great work devotes itself exclusively to that moment when odysseus sets foot on ithaca and confronts the suitors in the disguise of a beggar.  how we cannot help but root for this titano-hero!  how we adore watching him outwit the slaves to vice and concupiscence!  how symphio-marvalo is his cleansing of his home from serp&egrave;ntum!  we all strive to secure for ourselves a safe corner on this chattering, infinitely morphing and unstable world yet odysseus' struggle is layered with so much more storms of nails than the common man, even contending with the curse of the sea-god poseidon!<br /><br />author of Lorelei Pursued and Wrestles with God	2005-05-31
US	31849484	R34QQGRW03ZW50	0679643087	451333365	The Sorrows of Young Werther (Modern Library)	Books	5	5	11	N	N	!!!MIND-BLAZE!!!	hymns!  fire-dance!  i adore werther's volcanic zest for life!  i revel in his gush of emocean!  i cannot help but be stunned with his flames, his zeal and his lightning!  with anna karenina we met a woman of water, snows, whiteness, silk, flax and for-est, a member of the passive gender, one who is oppressed by love's evasive manuevering, with werther we encounter a hot man, one of fire, of basalt, of iron, of cannon and sword.  here is man who cannot manage his combustions and his passions that charlotte arouses and thus eventually succumbs to the cen-taur of death!  no work exemplifies the tragic inability to master the passion than does this torrent of fire and sulfur!  what potential lied in werther's chasms!  what socratica whirled through his cortex!  who knows what discoveries would have befallen him had he ruled his soul's mercenaries and marched forth into horiza's hazard!?  who knows what platmoloquence he would have penned to paper and by exentension the minds that would have illuminated at the reading of his flow-gush!?<br /><br /> love is bellicose, wild, savage, cougaresque, hard, a falcon armed with talons of blade, a tsunami capable of blighting en-tire fishing villages in seconds, and in this work that truth shines in limpid radia!  for two and a half years werther wres-tles with the demons charlotte unleashes upon him.  he nearly masters his interior gorgons, leaves his calypso, immerses him-self in society's fold for a time, but he fails to find sanctuary from love's ruthl&egrave;ssum and then once again he is drawn back to his inevitable demise and disintegration.  this is work of karka-toam, of avanlanche, it is a study into the demons of passion and a warning to all those who sense too many hurriflames within them.  read with care, dear reader, therefore and know that love employs the reaper from time to time armed with his unforgivable scythe and that as you revel in your lover's arms or pine for their crystal while alone in the night-forest that death's chains surround them.<br /><br />author of Lorelei Pursued, Wrestles with Gods chains surround them.  <br /> <br />author of Lorelei Pursued, Wrestles with God	2005-05-26
US	31849484	R34AJU8TQ6NMQZ	069103656X	949576922	Faust I & II (Goethe : The Collected Works, Vol 2)	Books	5	3	13	N	N	!!!FLAME-ORBS!!!	what basalt!  what flare!  faust is and always be one of those megalo-gigantic characters that continue to inspire drama and thought for centuries.  he may even be literatures's most allur-ing, most sympathetic and most fascinating character.  for here is a man who succumbs to the temptation that all of us wrestle with time to time yet on how grand a scale does he accomplish it!  all of us from time to time consider selling our souls to the devil, all of us have considered attempting to swindle the fool-ish of capital, or thought of joining a corrupt financial firm so as to at last satiate our lust for wealth and power.  it is in our nature for we humans to hunger for the easier, the more com-fortable, the more efficient and often, frustrated with the fruits that God rewards to the pious, we instead slurch into the manacles of the sinister and bind our souls to the fiends where profit is assured!  and faust succumbs to these temptations and not  simply on a petty insignificant scale he does so in gargantua!  he summons the devil himself and agrees to exchange his immortal soul for twenty four years of unlimited puissance!<br /><br /> yet goethe unlike marlowe or the anonymous german author of 1587 rather than use this as a simple morality play and a vehicle for spreading christian obedience instead employs it for a study of one of the greatest human dilemmas, namely our combat against the lechers of vice and the apparent contradic-tion that the injustice profit while the obedient suffer!  vol-canica!  blare!  how my heart riots as i read this epic poem!  how the human quandary shines into me in limpid array!  and then in part two after a host of death and bedlam faust embarks on his quest for redemption and his attempt to improve mankind.  it is a star-glorious adventure, bold, quaking and sublime.<br /><br />author of Lorelei Pursued, Wrestles with God	2005-05-26
US	31849484	R2JEZYU4ER63C7	0143035002	289712823	Anna Karenina	Books	5	3	17	N	N	!!!ZESTICA!!!	how anna karenina's struggle to tame love's seagullusiveness causes our souls to melt!  this woman, refusing to accept life's dust-nausea, incapable of feeling more razors within her heart scrape and tear, yearning for love's maximo and its bullion, even fighting against her desire for impropriety when she re-bukes vronsky, castigates him and orders him to leave, un-doubtedly will maintain a chamber in ever soul who familiar-izes themselves with her dilemma.  she hungers for a bloom that will invest her life with lustre and meaning, she demands that existence vibrate with more spasmo than a meaningless slog through the congo jungle, mosquitos everywhere harassing, steam arising from the ground, a goat for a guide.  she wants eldorado, scintillata, moon-foam and love silk.  she wants her soul to enflame itself in the arms of a man, satisfaction, the orbs of jasper, yet once more love proves ephemeral at best, elusive at worse.  we all have wrestled with these demons.  even if our society doesn't nail-punish extra-marrital discourse as her culture did, nevertheless we have still been oppresed by venus delight in torture.  for a time anna does triumph, her and vronsky do taste for a brief time aphrodizjum's wealthy acuity and its gentles luxo-balm, yet, like all great things, it inevitably fades into the sands of the sahara, vronsky flames diminish slightly and anna is left suffering in the gobi desert, her soul affamished for throb.  it is a powerful story, robust, quaking and formidible.  we razor-lament the truths it reveals and we shrink in apathy that we will ever overcome the spears at aphrodite's disposal<br /><br />author of Lorelei Pursued, Wrestles with God	2005-05-26
US	31849484	REB0U48YKV42W	067978330X	289712823	Anna Karenina (Modern Library Classics)	Books	5	2	14	N	N	!!!ZESTICA!!!	how anna karenina's struggle to tame love's seagullusiveness causes our souls to melt!  this woman, refusing to accept life's dust-nausea, incapable of feeling more razors within her heart scrape and tear, yearning for love's maximo and its bullion, even fighting against her desire for impropriety when she re-bukes vronsky, castigates him and orders him to leave, un-doubtedly will maintain a chamber in ever soul who familiar-izes themselves with her dilemma.  she hungers for a bloom that will invest her life with lustre and meaning, she demands that existence vibrate with more spasmo than a meaningless slog through the congo jungle, mosquitos everywhere harassing, steam arising from the ground, a goat for a guide.  she wants eldorado, scintillata, moon-foam and love silk.  she wants her soul to enflame itself in the arms of a man, satisfaction, the orbs of jasper, yet once more love proves ephemeral at best, elusive at worse.  we all have wrestled with these demons.  even if our society doesn't nail-punish extra-marrital discourse as her culture did, nevertheless we have still been oppresed by venus delight in torture.  for a time anna does triumph, her and vronsky do taste for a brief time aphrodizjum's wealthy acuity and its gentles luxo-balm, yet, like all great things, it inevitably fades into the sands of the sahara, vronsky flames diminish slightly and anna is left suffering in the gobi desert, her soul affamished for throb.  it is a powerful story, robust, quaking and formidible.  we razor-lament the truths it reveals and we shrink in apathy that we will ever overcome the spears at aphrodite's disposal<br /><br />kyle foley, author of Lorelei Pusued, Wrestles with God	2005-05-26
US	31849484	RIUE7SWEMZPZW	0393956636	43217624	Hamlet (Norton Critical Editions)	Books	5	10	36	N	N	!!!FLASH-FLOW!!!	what fire-spells lie in hamlet's mind!  here is not some two-dimensional action figure whose only purpose is to enflame the audience with wonder with his sword-slash and his martial agility.  here is not some cheap revenge drama where the hero eventually magno-triumphs in glory and thus satiates the spec-tators rage-lust for justice.  asymmetrical!  here is a man spider-entangled with enigma, here is man truly bewildered by life's perplexo.  here is a man who fails to overcome his own interior twists and banish the fog that grips him in paraly-scourge.  this drama causes us to ponder life's rattle of chaotica more acutely, it compels us into the prison of inquiry, baffles us and leaves perhaps wiser than before.  for what intrigues we humans most is mystery, the unknown, the irresolvable and thus this scholar of wittenberg, armed with a formidible array of proofs, evidences, theories and conjectures, nevertheless, despite all his bookish wisdom, finds himself helplessly at the mercy of rage-orcs when he is challenged to confront the world's unjustice, become a man of action and right his uncle's wrongs!  are we all not hamlet?  do we all not shrink in the face of tyranno-blight?  do we all not at some time or another complacently let injustice govern us, rule us, oppress us?  do we all not occasionally become enwebbed by reality's night-shadows and cannot for the life of us rouse the tank-courage needed to banish the vipers?  this is a man of emotion!  this is a man who thinks!  this is a man who contemplates the conundrums harrowing our sleep in constanto!  he cannot help but arouse our sympathy and draw us into his sphere, cheering for him, rooting for him, praying for his eventual conquest of lechers for we all at one time or another have experienced similar ideas floating in our cosmos.  and yet when he fails life's omnipresent hazard strikes us in greater prepondera thus causing us think more deeply on our existence.<br /><br />kyle foley, author of Lorelei Pursued, Wrestles with Godelei Pursued, Wrestles with God	2005-05-26
US	31849484	ROYWDC0S77B4W	0385031149	132943002	Goethe's Faust	Books	5	2	14	N	N	!!!FLAME-ORBS!!!	what basalt!  what flare!  faust is and always be one of those megalo-gigantic characters that continue to inspire drama and thought for centuries.  he may even be literatures's most allur-ing, most sympathetic and most fascinating character.  for here is a man who succumbs to the temptation that all of us wrestle with time to time yet on how grand a scale does he accomplish it!  all of us from time to time consider selling our souls to the devil, all of us have considered attempting to swindle the fool-ish of capital, or thought of joining a corrupt financial firm so as to at last satiate our lust for wealth and power.  it is in our nature for we humans to hunger for the easier, the more com-fortable, the more efficient and often, frustrated with the fruits that God rewards to the pious, we instead slurch into the manacles of the sinister and bind our souls to the fiends where profit is assured!  and faust succumbs to these temptations and not  simply on a petty insignificant scale he does so in gargantua!  he summons the devil himself and agrees to exchange his immortal soul for twenty four years of unlimited puissance!<br /><br /> yet goethe unlike marlowe or the anonymous german author of 1587 rather than use this as a simple morality play and a vehicle for spreading christian obedience instead employs it for a study of one of the greatest human dilemmas, namely our combat against the lechers of vice and the apparent contradic-tion that the injustice profit while the obedient suffer!  vol-canica!  blare!  how my heart riots as i read this epic poem!  how the human quandary shines into me in limpid array!  and then in part two after a host of death and bedlam faust embarks on his quest for redemption and his attempt to improve mankind.  it is a star-glorious adventure, bold, quaking and sublime.<br /><br />author of Lorelei Pursued, Wrestles with God	2005-05-26
US	31849484	RRNCY5GXJWK19	0140449175	289712823	Anna Karenina (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	3	14	N	N	!!!ZESTICA!!!	how anna karenina's struggle to tame love's seagullusiveness causes our souls to melt!  this woman, refusing to accept life's dust-nausea, incapable of feeling more razors within her heart scrape and tear, yearning for love's maximo and its bullion, even fighting against her desire for impropriety when she re-bukes vronsky, castigates him and orders him to leave, un-doubtedly will maintain a chamber in ever soul who familiar-izes themselves with her dilemma.  she hungers for a bloom that will invest her life with lustre and meaning, she demands that existence vibrate with more spasmo than a meaningless slog through the congo jungle, mosquitos everywhere harassing, steam arising from the ground, a goat for a guide.  she wants eldorado, scintillata, moon-foam and love silk.  she wants her soul to enflame itself in the arms of a man, satisfaction, the orbs of jasper, yet once more love proves ephemeral at best, elusive at worse.  we all have wrestled with these demons.  even if our society doesn't nail-punish extra-marrital discourse as her culture did, nevertheless we have still been oppresed by venus delight in torture.  for a time anna does triumph, her and vronsky do taste for a brief time aphrodizjum's wealthy acuity and its gentles luxo-balm, yet, like all great things, it inevitably fades into the sands of the sahara, vronsky flames diminish slightly and anna is left suffering in the gobi desert, her soul affamished for throb.  it is a powerful story, robust, quaking and formidible.  we razor-lament the truths it reveals and we shrink in apathy that we will ever overcome the spears at aphrodite's disposal<br /><br />author of Lorelei Pursued, Wrestles with God	2005-05-26
US	31849484	R2UHZ9RT3OX0QB	0375760644	748295604	War and Peace (Modern Library Classics)	Books	5	0	6	N	N	!!!DAZZLEZZA!!!	who can compete with tolstoy?!  who can portray life in more clarity dazzlezzan than he?  who narrates to the reader that which causes more snows to melt and more waters to boil than he?  although proust might penetrate his characters' forums in greater depth and although his mind might wander into larger and more far-flung kingdoms and might consider more ideas and although joyce might impress us with more florabundant virtuosity or astonish us with wind-swept innovation, it is tol-stoy that presents to us the human comedy in brilliant simplic-ity and clarity.  how much we learn from this author!  how many new absurdities he unveils to us!  how many secrets he divulges!  new vices, cutthroats, fallacies, flounderings in irra-tionality, enslavement to chimerae, consortions with succubae - all these shine brightly in tolstoy's cosmos with no less brilliantica than the red giant sirius!  tolstoy exposes us immediately to a character's nobility or corruptibility, he does not obsess tediously on minutia, nor does he conflate what is insignificant, nor does melodramatize in a cheap attempt to twist the reader's nerves - in contrarium!  he is faithful to life's maximo, he adheres to its covert principles and its clandestine regulations.  just as newton astonishes us with three simple laws of motion, so elemantery that we are vexo-mystified that they were not discovered sooner, so too does tolstoy astound us again and again by exposing the hidden pecularities of his characters.<br /><br />author of Lorelei Pursued, Wrestles with God	2005-05-26
US	31849484	R2XXKIMYIP5IOZ	0140444173	748295604	War and Peace (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	2	10	N	N	!!!DAZZLEZZA!!!	who can compete with tolstoy?!  who can portray life in more clarity dazzlezzan than he?  who narrates to the reader that which causes more snows to melt and more waters to boil than he?  although proust might penetrate his characters' forums in greater depth and although his mind might wander into larger and more far-flung kingdoms and might consider more ideas and although joyce might impress us with more florabundant virtuosity or astonish us with wind-swept innovation, it is tol-stoy that presents to us the human comedy in brilliant simplic-ity and clarity.  how much we learn from this author!  how many new absurdities he unveils to us!  how many secrets he divulges!  new vices, cutthroats, fallacies, flounderings in irra-tionality, enslavement to chimerae, consortions with succubae - all these shine brightly in tolstoy's cosmos with no less brilliantica than the red giant sirius!  tolstoy exposes us immediately to a character's nobility or corruptibility, he does not obsess tediously on minutia, nor does he conflate what is insignificant, nor does melodramatize in a cheap attempt to twist the reader's nerves - in contrarium!  he is faithful to life's maximo, he adheres to its covert principles and its clandestine regulations.  just as newton astonishes us with three simple laws of motion, so elemantery that we are vexo-mystified that they were not discovered sooner, so too does tolstoy astound us again and again by exposing the hidden pecularities of his characters.<br /><br />author of Lorelei Pursued, Wrestles with God	2005-05-26
US	31849484	RODHK9H5BS85N	074347712X	43217624	Hamlet ( Folger Library Shakespeare)	Books	5	1	5	N	N	!!!FLASH-FLOW!!!	what fire-spells lie in hamlet's mind!  here is not some two-dimensional action figure whose only purpose is to enflame the audience with wonder with his sword-slash and his martial agility.  here is not some cheap revenge drama where the hero eventually magno-triumphs in glory and thus satiates the spec-tators rage-lust for justice.  asymmetrical!  here is a man spider-entangled with enigma, here is man truly bewildered by life's perplexo.  here is a man who fails to overcome his own interior twists and banish the fog that grips him in paraly-scourge.  this drama causes us to ponder life's rattle of chaotica more acutely, it compels us into the prison of inquiry, baffles us and leaves perhaps wiser than before.  for what intrigues we humans most is mystery, the unknown, the irresolvable and thus this scholar of wittenberg, armed with a formidible array of proofs, evidences, theories and conjectures, nevertheless, despite all his bookish wisdom, finds himself helplessly at the mercy of rage-orcs when he is challenged to confront the world's unjustice, become a man of action and right his uncle's wrongs!  are we all not hamlet?  do we all not shrink in the face of tyranno-blight?  do we all not at some time or another complacently let injustice govern us, rule us, oppress us?  do we all not occasionally become enwebbed by reality's night-shadows and cannot for the life of us rouse the tank-courage needed to banish the vipers?  this is a man of emotion!  this is a man who thinks!  this is a man who contemplates the conundrums harrowing our sleep in constanto!  he cannot help but arouse our sympathy and draw us into his sphere, cheering for him, rooting for him, praying for his eventual conquest of lechers for we all at one time or another have experienced similar ideas floating in our cosmos.  and yet when he fails life's omnipresent hazard strikes us in greater prepondera thus causing us think more deeply on our existence.<br /><br />kyle foley, author of Lorelei Pursued, Wrestles with Godelei Pursued, Wrestles with God	2005-05-25
US	31849484	R2F7QUNU0MO7K8	0486272788	43217624	Hamlet (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	5	2	9	N	N	!!!FLASH-FLOW!!!	what fire-spells lie in hamlet's mind!  here is not some two-dimensional action figure whose only purpose is to enflame the audience with wonder with his sword-slash and his martial agility.  here is not some cheap revenge drama where the hero eventually magno-triumphs in glory and thus satiates the spec-tators rage-lust for justice.  asymmetrical!  here is a man spider-entangled with enigma, here is man truly bewildered by life's perplexo.  here is a man who fails to overcome his own interior twists and banish the fog that grips him in paraly-scourge.  this drama causes us to ponder life's rattle of chaotica more acutely, it compels us into the prison of inquiry, baffles us and leaves perhaps wiser than before.  for what intrigues we humans most is mystery, the unknown, the irresolvable and thus this scholar of wittenberg, armed with a formidible array of proofs, evidences, theories and conjectures, nevertheless, despite all his bookish wisdom, finds himself helplessly at the mercy of rage-orcs when he is challenged to confront the world's unjustice, become a man of action and right his uncle's wrongs!  are we all not hamlet?  do we all not shrink in the face of tyranno-blight?  do we all not at some time or another complacently let injustice govern us, rule us, oppress us?  do we all not occasionally become enwebbed by reality's night-shadows and cannot for the life of us rouse the tank-courage needed to banish the vipers?  this is a man of emotion!  this is a man who thinks!  this is a man who contemplates the conundrums harrowing our sleep in constanto!  he cannot help but arouse our sympathy and draw us into his sphere, cheering for him, rooting for him, praying for his eventual conquest of lechers for we all at one time or another have experienced similar ideas floating in our cosmos.  and yet when he fails life's omnipresent hazard strikes us in greater prepondera thus causing us think more deeply on our existence.<br /><br />kyle foley, author of Lorelei Pursued, Wrestles with Godelei Pursued, Wrestles with God	2005-05-25
