US	32236675	R3CKY3XIGVN0HF	1584859113	177906597	Room Crafts (American Girl Library)	Books	2	10	11	N	N	Dissapointing	I'm always on the search for good room-decor books, and I like most of the ideas that American Girl features in their magazine. But as I was looking through this book, I saw that many of the projects were pretty difficult-looking, the materials were too expensive, the projects were messy, or all three. I liked some of American Girl's other room decorating books; they were simpler and better then this one.	2005-08-26
US	32236675	R14S1QNUFLDF3Z	1584853689	551548603	A Smart Girl's Guide to Boys	Books	4	42	48	N	N	it's good for ages 10-12	I found this book at the library and it looked interesting, so I started reading it. What I found was basically a girl's guide to everything boy-related. Figuring out whether a boy likes you, turning down a boy who asks you out, surviving crushes, going to dances, being dumped, and much more are included. The illustrations accompanying the text are pretty funny, and many quizzes are also included such as \\"Are You Boy-Crazy?\\"  <br /> <br />While the advice is pretty good and helpful, I wouldn't recommend this to anybody who actually has boy experience. If you are a first-timer who is just starting to have crushes and such, you would probably find this to be helpful and imformative. If you have boy experience, you probably would know everything that is covered in this book.	2005-08-26
US	32236675	R2GXRMODFM1RF7	0671041576	358149826	Deal with It!  A Whole New Approach to Your Body, Brain, and Life as a gURL	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Must-read for teen girls	I was looking through the young adult section of my library when I stumbled across this book. I flipped through it and checked it out, and I didn't regret my desicion to do so. <br /> <br />Granted, the topics covered in this book can be pretty graphic(sex, drugs, rape, abuse, puberty, suicide, developing bodies, etc.), along with some graphic pictures to go along with them, but it's all stuff that teen girls will have to learn about eventually. The book does a good job tackling these topics seriously yet a little bit lightly at the same time so you won't feel uncomfortable reading it. Real-life stories and advice from girls help to round out the text.  <br /> <br />Overall, I definitely would recommend this book to anybody ages 13-19. It'll give you honest and truthful advice on many subjects that you might be too scared to ask or tell somebody else.	2005-08-20
US	32236675	R2I8FUPYEUTHZA	1572437278	550874049	Hilary Rocks!: On Stage, Screen, and In Between, Hilary Duff is Living a Fairy Tale Life!	Books	4	2	2	N	N	It's great....	There have been many biographies about Hilary Duff lately, and I must say that this one is very good. It doesn't exactly dive into the depths of her life too much (it does give you some basic autobiographical information, however), but there is a lot of great information about her movies, singing, album, and possible future. Plus, there are tons of great-looking glossy photographs that will satisfy any devoted Hilary Duff fan. The style is sophisticated and written well, but not in an annoying teenybopper-ish way. Whether you're a huge fan or just want to read more about Hilary with some good pictures, this is a fabulous book.	2005-08-20
US	32236675	R144BSU1HP0HOG	0806131101	40067460	Shannon Miller: My Child, My Hero	Books	2	2	2	N	N	Boring	I love to read gymnastics biographies; usually I don't care most of the time what gymnast I'm reading about. So, after reading several books on Shannon Miller, I picked this one up at the library and thought it might be interesting since it was by her own mother. <br /> <br />Yeah, I was wrong. This book is BORING. All it does is describe Shannon's competitions event-by-event, competition by competition. Yeah, maybe if you've never watched her on TV or read any other books about her, this book might be interesting, but I had a hard time picking it up and stopped reading after five minutes because it was so boring. I gave the book several chances and eventually forced myself to finish it, though. <br /> <br />Plus, there's nothing much about her personal life; really. All it does is talk about her gymnastics career and early life. Oh, and her mother brags about her daughter Shannon plenty enough, as well, sometimes even bragging about herself. Last time I checked, this was a biography about SHANNON, not her mother. <br /> <br />All in all, I didn't like it. The photos were nice, but I'd already seen many of them. For a slightly better Shannon biography, read \\"Shannon Miller: America's Most Decorated Gymnast,\\" by Krista Quiner. It does a better job of detailing her career without being boring and/or overly bragging, plus it is more revealing, as well.	2005-08-19
US	32236675	RD3KSFZFGIUUS	1572436808	3267684	Hilary Duff: Style, Fashion, Guys & More!	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Great for fans of Hilary Duff	I'm not a huge Hilary Duff fan, but I was browsing in the library when I happened to find this book and started to read it. <br /> <br />It's basically a really comprehensive photo scrapbook of Hilary Duff, with thousands of great pictures. Many of them have been seen before, but they're still really nice. The book details her early life and gives you a brief biography, along with giving information on her CDs, upcoming movies, fashion, guy traumas, and more. It also has quizzes and such to see how big of a Hilary Duff fan you really are.  <br /> <br />Most Hilary Duff fans probably know most of the info in this book, but it's still a great comprehensive fanbook with many glossy pictures. It would be a great addition to your Hilary Duff collection.	2005-08-19
US	32236675	R1866F91AXK1VV	0613076354	876700623	Dominique Moceanu : An American Champion : An Autobiography	Books	2	2	3	N	N	What's the point?	Dominique Moceanu \\"wrote\\" this book at the peak of her career, when she was 13 years old and had just won the 1995 Senior National Championships before the 1996 Olympics. Thus, judging from the early age which she \\"wrote\\" it (it says AS TOLD to Steve Woodward), it isn't the best autobiography in the world. <br /> <br />Yes, Dominique describes her childhood and early gymnastics at the beginning and then moves onto describe her rise to elite gymnastics and competing in bigger meets. Since the book doesn't describe every single meet event-by-event, some may like that a little bit better than other books about her. <br /> <br />However, it is simply too short, and I belive, written at the wrong time. She could have waited until at least her Goodwill Games victory in 1998 before doing this, or even after the 1996 Olympics.  <br /> <br />But that's not all- according to Dominique after she filed a lawsuit against her parents in 1998 or so, she called this book a \\"fable.\\" Yeah, that's right. She goes on to praise her parents in her little fable of an autobiography that shows how perfect her life must have been at this point in her gymnastics career, and then we see that Dominique Moceanu's life isn't so wonderful after all. <br /> <br />Overall, if you're looking for a fabulous comprehensive true biography of Dominique, please, by all means, skip this one. If you want a quick little read with more fiction than fact, go ahead and read this. It has some decent-looking pictures, if that counts for anything.	2005-08-19
US	32236675	R2DV2BW0QS8SL	0743266641	95924953	Confessions of an Heiress: A Tongue-in-Chic Peek Behind the Pose	Books	4	10	11	N	N	A fun and light read	So now, to the shock, surprise,  delight, and horror of many, Paris Hilton has gone ahead and written a book detailing her fabulous life. At first, when you eye the glittery pink cover with Paris decked out in a BCBG dress, I know you're thinking, \\"What kind of garbage could possibly lie within these glossy, photograph-laden pages?\\" Well, as it turns out, more than you might think. Okay, so Paris hasn't written a complex adult novel, but her book is entertaining, interesting, and provides a good peek into her life. <br /> <br />I wouldn't exactly call this an autobiography- there are some autobiographical things in there, but it's mostly just showing you Paris behind the scenes as she shows you what it's like to be rich, young, and beautiful. She gives you her fashion do's and don'ts, advice on how to be just like her (not all of it is to be taken seriously, though!), stories from her childhood, the making of The Simple Life, and much more. And, if you are looking for good-quality pictures, you have come to the right book, because it features 300 photos of Paris, old and new. <br /> <br />So, overall, go ahead and read this book if you don't hate Paris Hilton and want something entertaining to read. If you want something more substance-filled, maybe it would be better to read something else.	2005-07-17
US	32236675	R28WWTMAQ0TDAV	1595140395	61069133	Carly Patterson: Olympic Idol	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Good... but nothing really new	As a Carly Patterson fan, I picked up this book at the library when I was bored and finished it in about 25 minutes. It doesn't, as other reviewers mention, go up to the 2004 Athens Olympics- it goes up to the 2004 American Cup. <br /> <br />Also included are some information about Carly's early life, start in gymnastics, earlier meets, etc. Most of the meet information was compiled from articles already written about Carly. <br /> <br />It also has some photos, but not that many; if you're looking for a lot of pictures, this book probably wouldn't satisfy you. The few photos included, however, are really good. <br /> <br />So, overall, if you haven't heard much about Carly and are looking for a brief read to tell you more, than go ahead and read this book. If you already know enough about her, you probably won't find any new information in here.	2005-05-28
US	32236675	RXVB16NN3WSOC	0060096136	927583501	Princess in Training: Princess Diaries, Volume VI	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Another great Princess Diaries novel from Meg Cabot	If you liked the previous novels in the Princess Diaries series, than you will most likely really enjoy this one. What makes Princess in Training more interesting is that this book starts off in Mia's sophomore year of high school, instead of continuing on with her freshman year. Meg Cabot adds tons of witty and fun new details, like Boris' transformation to a hot guy over the summer and Mia's fascination with her new baby brother, but still leaves in the favorites like Grandmere's preaching and Lilly's new strange endeavors.    As said before, this book picks up at the start of Mia's sophomore year, where she is faced with geometry instead of algebra, an interesting new English/writing teacher, and (gasp!) having to change in front of other girls for P.E. class. But her year definitely does not get off to a smooth start, especially because Lana Weinberger is out to make Mia's life miserable once again and Lilly nominates Mia to run for class president- against Lana. While Mia has grown up quite a bit since the start of the series, she still has her trademark wit and worrisome attitude that makes the series so much fun to read. In fact, readers will find a very interesting turn of events at the end of the book that shows just how much Mia has matured since the first book. The constant turns and surprises make this an interesting, fun book to read that will have readers eagerly awaiting the next book in the series.	2005-04-08
US	32236675	RJNCZLMKMVB2B	0805064702	787839348	Organizing from the Inside Out for Teenagers: The Foolproof System for Organizing Your Room, Your Time, and Your Life	Books	4	20	21	N	N	This book can really help you get organized.....	Lately, many teenagers feel like they under the same crunch as their parents to get everything done (school, homework, friends, chores, jobs, etc.), and yet still want free time- and this book can really help you get your work done and still have a life, at the same time. The way that Julie Morgenstern writes this book is different than your typical organizing book- because it helps you to create an organizational system that caters to your personal needs, not someone else's. Julie states that since every teen as different hobbies, interests, activities, etc., their usage of time and the way their bedroom is organized will also be different.  <br /> <br />Instead of giving you the same organizing system to use as everybody else, this book gives you a basic five-plan organizational system that you can apply to organizing your bedroom and managing your time better. It also features tons of helpful hints, real-life stories and anecdotes, and more to help you to get organized. Asides from being helpful, these stories and tips are also motivational and inspirational. <br /> <br />So, for all of those teens who have tried countless times to get organized but still find themselves in a mess, this book will definitely help you to get organized and start living your life better and more well-managed.	2005-03-19
US	32236675	R1O9CZJX4X5IAG	0316286850	212807922	Making Faces	Books	3	6	7	N	N	The "art" book of beauty	\\"Making Faces\\" is a step-by-step beauty manual featuring many different looks that have been tested out on real people and celebrities, from the simple to the outrageous. While it may be a very entertaining book to just flip through or a good experimental beauty book, I found that this book wouldn't be the best bet for those who are looking for the basics of beauty. There is a short chapter or so about the essential makeup products and such, but not a whole lot of beauty basics. However, that shouldn't stop your enjoyement of this well-written book. The large size and format of the book makes it easy to read and the pictures are really nice as well. Another good feature is that all of the looks (or \\"faces\\"), not only feature detailed step-by-step instructions, but they also have a clear drawing of the procedure right next to it, which would be a plus for people who need a visual aid. Overall, this is a great book, but if you want a book that will show you beauty basics, check out something else.	2004-12-30
US	32236675	R3FVWGLGV18OXW	0811829995	593325175	Beauty: Things to Make and Do (Crafty Girl)	Books	1	4	10	N	N	Useless Waste of Money	I hate the Crafty Girl books, because all of them have \\"ideas\\" that you can easily get anywhere else for cheaper, there are no clear directions or even pictures of the projects/crafts, and they're expensively priced for such a bad book. This book speaks for itself- it has homemade beauty recipies that you can try out on yourself, friends, etc. The book would have been okay if the ideas were actually ORIGINAL, but they are all things that you can find it other beauty books, such as avacado face masks and such. Other books are LOADED with these ideas and suggestions, but this one, in a useless money-making scheme, tries to get girls to waste their money on it. The size and structure of the book is also annoying, as you can't even easily lay it open if you're trying to read and your hands are all covered with gross stuff to make the projects. It's also hard to find exactly what you're looking for in the book, becasue the print is so small and the table of contents is unclear.  Definitely not reccomended and a big waste of money.	2004-12-25
US	32236675	R236H6O4HYTSS0	0316701297	96034364	The Clique	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Entertaining "Gossip Girl" spin-off for middle school reader	Since I'm an avid fan of the Gossip Girl books, I picked this book up at the bookstore expecting the same backstabbing, boyfriend-stealing, designer clothes, shopping, and high school stuff that makes up the GG books. It was almost entirely just as I expected- yet the characters of \\"The Clique\\" were all in seventh-grade, and not as much \\"matureness\\" was used in this book. But don't run away from the book because of that- \\"The Clique\\" is actually a very entertaining read, and I found myself eagerly devouring the second book in the series, \\"Best Friends for Never,\\" as well. <br /> <br />Massie Block and her group of select friends (known as \\"the clique\\") have always been used to being the most stylish, popular, trend-setting, and coolest girls at Octavian County Day School, the exclusive all-girl private school that they attends. However, at the start of seventh grade, Massie finds herself stuck being \\"friends\\" with Claire Lyons, whose family are old friends of Massie's and have come to live at the guesthouse at Massie's estate until they can find their own house to live in. But instead of playing it nice to Claire, Massie and her friends do all they can to make Claire's life miserable- that is, until Claire comes up with a clever way to seek revenge and win them over. <br /> <br />I found this book to be a good read, and I'm sure that lots of others will as well. If you especially liked the movie \\"Mean Girls\\" and/or the Gossip Girl books, definitely try this one.	2004-12-25
US	32236675	R3L8VHUE2SGL4I	0064410145	681127066	The Grim Grotto (A Series of Unfortunate Events, Book 11)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Falls a little short of "The Slippery Slope"	In my opinion, \\"The Slippery Slope\\" was probably the best, most informative, and most exciting out of all of the SOUE books, so when I got my copy of \\"The Grim Grotto,\\" I was expecting this book to be even better and provide more leads in the Baudelaire orphan's strange lives and past. However, \\"The Grim Grotto,\\" is a bit more slow-paced and just does not hold your attention well enough as many of the other books in the series do. <br /> <br />The book leaves off at the end of The Slippery Slope when the Baudelaires are streaming down the Stricken Stream in a toboggan, not knowing where the heck they're going or where they'll be next. When they see a submarine with a periscope in the shape of the eye, the Baudelaires jump at this opportunity. The Baudelaires climb in the submarine (named the Queequeg) to find an over-excited captian named Captian Widdershins, and his teenage stepdaughter, Fiona. Captian Widdershins was on a frantic search for a lost sugar bowl before Count Olaf's greedy clutches got a hold of it. The Baudelaires then agree to head out on a journey to the  Gorgonian Grotto to find the sugar bowl, where they are faced with even more exciting and dangerous adventures, including an encounter with Count Olaf and an interesting new revelation about one of Olaf's assistants. <br /> <br />I didn't think that this was one of the best books in the series. Snicket's tedious, overused descriptions of the water cycle (an attempt to make the reader put the book down), are extremely annoying, and the plot is very slow. Captian Widdershins was also extremely annoying because of his use of \\"Aye!\\" about ten times a paragraph. This book, actually, didn't get very interesting until the very last page, where the Baudelaire's lives take a huge turn. (I won't say whether it's for the better or worse!) <br /> <br />Overall, this book failed to oversee my excpectations. If you're a big SOUE fan, then you should (and will) most definitely will read it, but hopefully, the next installement of the series will be much better.	2004-11-26
US	32236675	R1BF4JH9Z52N5Y	0345459806	603452592	The Sitter	Books	2	5	7	N	N	R.L. Stine's measly attempt at writing an adult novel	I've been a big fan of R.L. Stine's Goosebumps and Fear Street books for quite some time now. I didn't really consider them to be scary or frightening; I just enjoyed the books So I picked this book up at the young adult section not really expecting anything but a young adult thriller, a la Fear Street with more matureness. When I finished the book and read the About The Author page, I considered it kind of shocking that this was supposed to be an adult novel. But this book was really nothing like that. The plot was the same easy-to-conceive one as other R.L. Stine books, and anyone who can understand a Goosebumps book can definitely comprehend this one. Basically, R.L. Stine adds some older characters to a supposedly scary plotline and then throws in a lot of sex, swearing, boyfriend-and-girlfriend issues, smoking pot, etc.     Here's the plot: Almost twenty-five-year old Ellie Sacks finds herself in a tight stretch one summer. She doesn't have a permanent job or a family yet and is sick of her mother telling her about how successful her older sister is. Ellie's best friend was planning on getting a job and Ellie felt as though she should do the same. She finally gets a job when a lady named Abby Harper corners her in a boutique and asks her to be a nanny to her two children, with a promise that the pay would be very good. So Ellie packs up and moves to the Harper's house, not knowing what is in store. She finds that she is expected to be nanny to a two-year-old girl and a four-year-old boy named Brandon who has stopped talking for reasons that nobody knows. Ellie makes it her main goal to be able to communicate with the boy, but she has other stuff to deal with, such as death threats, horrible things from an anonymous sender, and a crazy lady who tells her to stay away from the Harper's. Slowly, Ellie's summer becomes more and more horrible and unpredictable until the final plot twist at the end.    This book wasn't bad- but it's definitely not an adult novel. IfR.L. Stine took out the adult-like stuff, then this novel could be for a nine-year-old kid to easily read. He should sharpen his pencil and try again.	2004-08-13
US	32236675	R11DFZJSCFX3ET	0972393617	900448745	Ultimate Unofficial Guide to the Mysteries of Harry Potter (Analysis of Books 1-4)	Books	4	10	10	N	N	An in-depth guide to the Harry Potter series	Many guides and books about the Harry Potter series are about the stories, legends, and tales behind the series and ideas for the books. But this book actually dives into the plot of each chapter for the first four books and gives you lots of interesting facts, clues, and information that'll have you running back to read each book every time you miss something. And I can tell you, when you read this book, it'll be happening a lot! <br />  <br /> This book features seperate sections for each of the books. For each chapter, plotlines are briefly outlined and then clues to the series/book ending/book are revealed. A &quot;Restricted Section&quot; is also included in the back which discusses very interesting and juicy stuff such as possible endings for the series, characters to watch out for in book 5 and beyond, clues to the rest of the series, and much more. If you want to read this book in an attempt to get out of reading the series for some reason, it probably won't work because there are so many fascinating clues and bits of information uncovered. <br />  <br /> I admit that some of the theories can be pretty outrageous- such as Lupin being Harry's father, Snape being a vampire, or worst of all, Harry waking up at the end of Book 7 to find that it was all a dream and he had only imagined the whole thing. That ending scares me just thinking about it and I'm sure that it does to many Harry Potter fans, too. So be on the lookout for wild theories like these, especially since the books are so complex and have so many strange plot twists and turns. <br />  <br /> Overall, I would say that the twenty-five dollar price of this book would probably be well worth it for many Harry Potter fans. It's a book that will have you staying up all night reading and wondering, and wishing even harder for the next book in the series to come out.	2004-08-01
US	32236675	RYA6ZJBQKMX6M	0816052301	587149774	Winning Gymnastics for Girls (Winning Sports for Girls)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Fabulous new gymnastics book!	Lately, there haven't been many instructional guides published about gymnastics, so when I saw this at the bookstore, I got really excited and bought myself a copy right away. And I've got to say that it's money well spent! This is a great book for gymnastics, especially beginning ones, and will definitely help spark a love and dedication to gymnastics. <br /> <br />The book starts off with a brief introduction and a history of gymnastics. Then, there's a chapter on starting gymnastics with helpful hints on what to look for in a gymnastics club, choosing the right club, what to wear, the type of equipment in a typical club, and much more. An advantage is that this book also offers a chapter on safety, with tips on spotting, landing, and falling, along with helping to prevent yourself from injury. <br /> <br />The instructional portion of this book covers a very nice chapter on conditioning, along with basic skills on tumbling, floor excercise, balance beam, vault, and uneven bars. Black and white instructional photographs are included for most skills, but I wish that they were a bit more detailed and that there was more of them.  <br /> <br />Plus, the book also has sections on competing in gymnastics, rhythmic gymnastics, cheerleading, parent and tot programs, a glossary, gymnastics resources, and further reading. It would be a very helpful book for beginners who want to get far and have fun in gymnastics, along with intermediate and advanced gymnastics too.	2004-07-27
US	32236675	R3OYIDCP3OSELR	0060957247	569099397	Bobbi Brown Teenage Beauty: Everything You Need to Look Pretty, Natural, Sexy and Awesome	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A basic beauty manual for teen girls	\\"Bobbi Brown Teenage Beauty\\" is very much like Bobbi's beauty book for women, \\"Bobbi Brown Beauty.\\" As always, Bobbi emphasises her philosophy of natural makeup that lets your inner beauty shine through. Bobbi has written the book in an easy-to-use and understand manner that many teens can benefit from. This is not just a beauty manual; it's also a guide to help you gain self-confidence and self-esteem and to accept yourself for your natural beauty.<br />Bobbi covers typical teenage beauty issues throughout the book such as covering up and preventing zits, makeup with braces, beauty for prom and special occasions, what to keep in your makeup bag, and more. Included are individual chapters on skincare, the right makeup for your skin tone, an eight-step makeup application process with photos and instructions, tips on experimenting with makeup, and basic instructions on how to apply eyeshadow, lipstick and gloss, concealer, etc. Additional chapters include health and fitness plans for all body types, how to dress to flatter your body, answers to frequenty asked beauty questions, preteen beauty, and beauty for different ethnic groups such as Asian, African-American, and Latina.<br />Since this book doesn't really dive into makeup application beyond the basics, I would recommend this book to any teen who doesn't want too much makeup or any teen who has only started wearing makeup. It's a great self-confidence booster and a great beauty manual for most teens.	2004-07-14
US	32236675	RMVI1E9SHXC50	0060929766	102181155	Bobbi Brown Beauty (Bobbi Brown Series)	Books	3	5	6	N	N	If you don't need or want to put on lots of makeup....	... then this is the book that you want. Instead of encouraging you to experiment with wild colors and have fun with makeup, unlike artists such as Kevyn Aucoin, Bobbi recommends keeping the makeup simple and natural. There's only one chapter on experimental beauty and even that's only 1 page and still tells you to keep it safe. However, this is still a pretty good book for many women to read, especially beginners, who want to achieve a pretty but not over-the-top makeup look.<br />Bobbi starts off by giving you her philosophy: modern, pared-down, realistic, and natural make-up, which you will see reflected throughout nearly the entire book. Following that is a chapter about diet and excercise, including types of excercises you can do, the right kinds of foods to eat, etc. There are also individual chapters on skin care, organizing your makeup, most-asked beauty questions, changing the makeup you wear with the seasons, and more. Additionally, there are chapters on making up your lips, eyes, and face, along with using blush, eyeshadow, poweder, foundation, etc. A ten-step makeup application routine is also given for fair, medium, and dark skin tones. The book even has chapters on make-up for different ethnic backrounds, including Asian, Latina, African-American, and global women. <br />What I find rather strange is that Bobbi's own makeup line is full of bright and experimental colors and tools, yet she says that you should always keep your makeup natural. She even says to use the same makeup routine you normally use for your wedding or a black-tie event! Bobbi goes on about how she doesn't like bright-colored eyeshadows, bright lipsticks, smoky eyes, or lots of liner for the daytime. Well, I'm sorry, but I see many women wearing these things in the daytime and the look fine. I am thirteen years old and I wear smoked eyeliner and bright eyeshadow. Is that such a bad thing? Make-up is supposed to be all about having fun and experimenting, but clearly Bobbi doesn't realize or doesn't care about that.<br />Overall, I would say that this is the best book for women who don't wear lots of makeup, women who are just starting to wear makeup, women who want a book about natural makeup, or anyone who wants a beauty self-confidence boost. I don't think it's the best option for people who like to go past basic makeup.	2004-07-14
US	32236675	R300V168SK54AS	B00005R8BM	700641788	Teen People	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Teen People has gotten a lot better!	Before 2004, I used to think that Teen People was way too much celebrity-obsessed and had too many advertisements, but it seems like the editors and writers have been making a change for the better. Teen People is now a magazine that many teenagers, will enjoy and like to read. It covers many topics, from the latest celebrity news and pictures to real-life stories.<br />Teen People's articles have been getting longer and more complex, which I think is a nice thing especially for those who like to read a lot. They are no longer limited to 1 or 2 pages, now many of them are at least 3 or 4. Teen People features articles about celebrities, the latest fashion and beauty trends, real-life stories, guy advice, and more. It's a great magazine for those who love reading about celebrities and their latest doings, because like it's parent magazine People, Teen People covers these topics a lot but equally balances the other topics along with it. Additionally, Teen People has fun stuff like quizzes, games, embarrasing moments stories, and more.<br />I would recommend Teen People for any teen who is looking for a good, easy-to-read magazine with a little bit of a bigger emphasis on celebrities. It's a wonderful and age-appropriate magazine for anyone ages around 12 or 13 and up.	2004-07-13
US	32236675	R470DS7K639QG	0940279436	456788702	Gymnastics	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Great guide for gymnasts and parents	This is a wonderful book for beginning gymnasts and their parents to understand more and gain the best from gymnastics. It's a helpful guide that will serve as a companion during your gymnastics journey. \\"Gymnastics\\" features a lot of burning answers to your questions, from what to pack in your gym bag to preparing for competition. It has an easy-to-read format that's interesting and imformative without trying to shove material down your throat.<br />\\"Gymnastics\\" gives you stories about famous gymnasts when they first started off, conditioning and stretching excercises to do at home, drills and excercises for landing safely, competition advice and information, information about gymnastics-related injuries, information about deciding your future in gymnastics, and much more. It is a very valuable resource that all gymnasts can benefit from. My only complaint is that it is a little bit outdated and it would be nice if a new edition was published. Otherwise, it's a fantastic book!	2004-07-09
US	32236675	RH2641P0657J	1402200617	931387962	Age-Defying Beauty Secrets: Look and Feel Younger Each and Every Day	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Great new book from Diane Irons!	Diane Irons has finally come out with her new book, Age Defying Beauty Secrets. This book is filled with thousands of tips and tricks to help you look beautiful, young, and at your best. The main focus of this book is to give you simple, easy-to-follow secrets, tips, and tricks for looking and feeling younger.<br />You'll get tips on fashion, beauty, diet, nutrition, and even secrets of Hollywood's biggest models and stars. As another reviewer commented, many of these tips are found in fashion magazines, but there are also many new ones and it is very nice to have them all in one place. The best part is that they really work!! An excellent book and I would definitely recommend it to anybody.	2004-06-06
US	32236675	R56W1ELTJXARF	0689861737	471258106	The Princess & the Pauper	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A good read!	\\"The Princess and The Pauper\\" is a modern-day fairy tale and a fun, easy, and light read. <br />Carina, the crown princess of Vineland, has never experienced a normal teenage life. Instead, she feels like a caged bird living in a large palace where she must deal with the ongoing pressures of being a royal. To make matters worse, Carina's family wants her to go out with another royal she doesn't even like, Markus. When Carina meets a guy online named Ribbit and lead singer of a popular band, Carina realizes that her upcoming trip to Los Angeles would give her the chance to meet him and experience what it would be like to live like a regular teen for once. <br />Meanwhile, instead of worrying about meeting guys, Julia Johnson is too busy worrying about how to keep a roof over her and her mothers' heads. They lived in a run-down apartment unsuitable for living in and were in danger of being evicted from their home if Julia's mother could not pay the rent that she had owed for the past several months. So when Carina comes to Los Angeles and gives a speech at Julia's school, Carina realizes that they looked exactly alike and she could use Julia to meet Ribbit. When Carina offers Julia ten-thousand dollars to switch, Julia can't say no. After all, she and her mother really needed the money. <br />What happens when they switch? Lots of unexpected twists and turns, events, and surprises, even a happy ending! This is a great book for Meg Cabot fans or fans of teen fiction novels.	2004-05-16
US	32236675	R233YTS8XJ87SD	0060570105	873009133	Freaky Friday	Books	4	0	1	N	N	A pretty good read	This hilarious book, based on the hit movie, is a fun, light read for ages 8 and up. Although it was written in the 1970s, it still has a lot of appeal and charm to all kinds of audiences. This book is based on the 2003 version of the movie, but you'll find that many parts are different. <br />Annabel Andrews was a twelve-year-old girl with braces, brown hair, and brown eyes. She was constantly getting into fights with her brother Ben who she called Ape Face and feeling trapped by her parents by not being able to do whatever she wants. So one day, Annabel and her mother have a large fight in which her mother states she will pay for it. So Annabel wasn't really surprised when she woke up the next morning and found she was sleeping in her mother's bed, wearing pins and rollers in her hair and a long nightgown. Figuring that her mother had something to do with this, Annabel decides to play along and see what it's really like to be an adult.<br />Turns out, it's not easy as Annabel thinks. She has problems with the washer, Ben nearly gets lost in the city because Annabel forgot to pick him up, and she madly goes from one situation to another trying to figure out a way to fix it. Soon enough, Annabel finds herself wishing that she could be back in her own body again and can only hope that her mother, who Annabel figured had ditched school, will do something about it. The ending is okay; it's not too good, not too bad. I think I would recommend this book on an overall basis; fans of the movie may want to try something different.	2004-03-30
US	32236675	R213NIEGD0L48I	1885693176	863395576	Sport Psychology Library: Gymnastics	Books	5	20	20	N	N	I'll give this book a 10 for being so imformative and useful	Whether you're a competitive gymnast on the club level or a collegiate gymnast, or even just a beginner, you will benifit from this marvelous book. It was written by two former gymnasts, Peter Vidmar and Karen Cogan, who also happens to be a sport psychologist. It will help you improve on your performance by learning how to play the mental game of gymnastics and gives you many strategies to practice and to use to make yourself an even better gymnast that you were before.<br />This book gives you an instruction of the mental side of gymnastics, and then goes on to give tips about relaxation and energization strategies, positive thinking, mental imagery, developing focus and concentration, and goal setting to get where you want to be. The book then goes on to give individual chapters to each apparatus, highlighting the type of skills needed, mental skills that will help you on that apparatus, and other useful tips. But that's not all- you'll also get information on overcoming mental blocks and fear, dealing with fans, pressure, and fame, keeping the fun in gymnastics, body image and eating disorders, parents and coaches, and much more. This book is a much-needed look at how you can use mental skills to become the best gymnast that you can possibly be.	2004-02-24
US	32236675	R294MNN0Y5IURC	0064472779	9669590	All-American Girl	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A wonderful new novel by Meg Cabot	Meg Cabot, the author of the excellent Princess Diaries series, has written another wonderful book that will eagerly be devoured by teen girls. Samantha Madison was just an outcast living in the shadow of her older, popular sister Lucy and her geeky genius sister Rebecca who was so smart, she was taking college-level courses at age 11. But Samantha was an outsider- she died all the clothes in her wardrobe black, hung out with all the artist and drama-type kids at school, and as far as she could tell, her only talent was drawing. So when Lucy discovered one day that Samantha had been doing celebrity drawings in German class and charging them to other students, Lucy immediately tells on their parents. Samantha's parents assume that she had been getting a C- in German because she had been spending all her time drawing, so they enrolled her in Susan Boone's art classes on Tuesdays and Thursdays for two hours after school where they felt she could creatively express herself. Samantha, enraged at her parents for enrolling her in these classes and at Susan Boone for criticizing her artwork, decides to ditch class one day and hang out in the record store above the studio, Static, instead. So when Samantha waits for her housekeeper, Theresa, to come pick her up, Samantha was in the wrong place at the wrong time and jumped a guy next to her just as he was about to shoot the President. Suddenly, Samantha's world changes dramatically, including being invited to the most popular girl at school's party and catching the eye of David, the first son, who also happens to be in her art class at Susan Boone's. If you are a fan of the Princess Diaries series, you will LOVE this laugh-out loud, romantic ride.	2004-02-12
US	32236675	R1TU5KO4EA8GD4	0743456424	273657629	Kevyn Aucoin: A Beautiful Life	Books	5	11	11	N	N	A beautiful book!	KEVYN AUCOIN: A BEAUTIFUL LIFE is a well-written, candid look at the life and beauty techniques of one of the best makeup artists in the world. Included is a biography of Kevyn and many, many personal and private pictures on just about every page. You'll find out about Kevyn's life from his childhood days to his stardom as a makeup artist, all the way to his death. Also included are many personal anecdotes and stories from people who have respected Kevyn such as Tina Turner and Britney Spears.<br />After the biography comes an entire section showing you Kevyn's makeup techniques, tips, and secrets, along with many beautiful, full-color photographs that illustrate every step and the finished product. You'll get advice on everything from eyes to lips! Overall, this book is a wonderful tribute and the perfect gift for anyone who has appreciated Kevyn's work.	2004-02-09
US	32236675	R2ISSRZF1ZHHFH	0060096071	988812780	Princess in Waiting (The Princess Diaries, Vol. 4)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	"Princess In Waiting" is a winner!	In this fourth installment of the hilarious Princess Diaries series, Mia is finally in Genovia over her winter break to be introduced to the Genovian public- where her daily schedule includes activities such as \\"Dedicate new modern wing of Royal Genovian Museum of Art,\\" or \\"Outing with Monaco's Royal Family, Royal Genovian Yacht,\\" and the never-ending princess lessons with Grandmere. But Mia's introduction doesn't go quite as anticipated- the Genovians weren't expecting her to be talking about how installing parking meters is a big issue! Separated from her boyfriend and true love, Michael, Mia eagerly counts down the days in her journal until she can return home to Manhattan and live her normal life again- with the exception of the princess stuff, of course. So when Mia gets back, she gets especially excited when Michael asks her to a screening of their favorite movie, Star Wars, on Friday night. But once again, Grandmere steps in and declares that Mia must go to Contessa Trevanni's ball the exact same day of Mia's date with Michael- and now, Mia is sure that Michael will dump her after she breaks him the news. From Mia having to deal with Grandmere taking her out of school early to get a gown for the ball to Lilly telling Mia that she has a talent that she hasn't figured out yet, Mia's life as a freshman at Albert Einstein High School during the second semester is filled with ups and downs! A wonderful sequel to \\"Princess in Love,\\" which will have fans eagerly waiting for Book #5.	2004-02-04
US	32236675	R30SWLKWTPMA9O	0439617324	912513478	Hangin' With Hilary Duff	Books	4	17	17	N	N	Awesome Hilary Duff book	Get all the Hilary Duff information and facts you want with this awesome book! This book is a compilation of Hilary Duff information and over 50 beautiful, high-quality photos. This book is stuffed to the brim with quotes, secrets, facts, and interesting information that Hilary Duff fans will all want to get their hands on. It gives you a brief biography of Hilary Duff, including her early movies and her Lizzie McGuire fame, up to her Metamorphosis CD and singing career. Plus, the book even includes facts on Hilary's upcoming projects, such as her new movies, and her new project, Stuff by Hilary Duff, a girl's clothing/product line. Not only that, but you'll also get information on other Hilary Duff stuff such as a day in the life of Hilary (with cool facts like what her bedtime is!), her fashion style, boy rumors uncovered, and Hilary Duff on her friends, family, singing career, acting, and more. For all Hilary Duff fans out there, this is a wonderful addition to your collection of Hilary Duff stuff. Just make sure to watch out- this book is unauthorized, so some of the facts may be wrong. Other than that, it's a fabulous Hilary Duff book!	2004-02-03
US	32236675	R1OX89XY60T7RM	006051406X	389277947	Molly Moon's Incredible Book of Hypnotism	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Fantastic book!	This is Georgia Byng's first novel and I am extremely impressed with it. The writing, characters, plot, and setting all come together to create a fabulous tale about an orphan girl's startling discovery that would change her world forever.<br />Molly Moon was just another orphan living at Hardwick House. She was always being picked on by the other kids and was tormented by the headmaster, Ms. Adderstone. Molly only had one friend and would often spend her time being punished for things like taking a bath with too much water or being bullied by Hazel Hackersky. To make matters worse, her best friend Rocky was adopted from the orphanage and taken to New York with a new family.<br />But one day, Molly's bad luck changes for the better. She discovers a mysterious old book entitled \\"Hypnotism,\\" written by a hypnosist expert. Molly first tested it out by hypnotizing the orphnage's dog, Petula, and discovered she was a natural. She even won two thousand pounds at a local talent show and decided to put her earnings to use. After hyptotizing both Miss Adderstone and the orphanage's cook into liking her, Molly decides to go to New York and try to find Rocky. But before you can say \\"hypnotism,\\" Molly is staying at the most expensive hotel in New York City and earning forty-thousand dollars a month by being the star of a hit Broadway musical. But that's not all- a stranger determined to get the book is watching Molly and plotting a plan to get that book...<br />This is an excellent book for ages 8-12. It's mixed with humor, sadness, and happiness all at the same time. Readers will be cheering for the impressible Molly, who has the adventure of her life in this book.	2004-01-30
US	32236675	R2J7M2LAGJSXY3	0385729340	122662979	The Second Summer of the Sisterhood (Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants, Book 2)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Great sequel	\\"With a little bit of last summer's sand in the pockets, the Traveling Pants and the sisterhood who wears them embark on their second summer together.\\"<br />Ann Brashares has written an excellent sequel to \\"The Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants.\\" I was fearing that this sequel would be some of a let-down, since that's how many sequels are, unless you're a good author and are able to pull of a good one, but I was wrong. This book was just as good, if not better, as the first one. Now ready to get started on their second summer of their sisterhood, the four girls thought that they would be staying home, with the exception of Tibby, who was going to a film program in a college in Virginia. But things start to change when Bridget discovers some old letters from her grandmother inviting her to visit. So Bridget, angry that her dad never showed her the letters, decides to go and visit her grandmother, while Lena and Carmen are still stuck at home.<br />As the summer gets underway, it looked like more than one surprise was in store for all of the girls. Carmen's mother gets lovesick over a guy and even wears the Traveling Pants on one of their dates. Lena and Kostos' relationship takes a surprising plunge, Bridget pretends to be a maid named Gilda Tomko and offers to clean her grandmother's attic while she also gets into soccer again, and Tibby realizes how her life had really been affected since Bailey passed away. The book is filled with the same humor and wit as Ann Brashares' other novel, and is nice and lengthy- 372 pages, to be exact. I think that despite what other people say, this book can be read by someone 12-13 years old if they're mature enough, but I think that 15-16 year-olds can understand it and enjoy it the most. A great sequel!	2004-01-14
US	32236675	R1C814H62F5CLB	1570717737	713775186	Diane Irons' 14-Day Beauty Boot Camp: The Crash Course for Looking and Feeling Great w/ one Audio CD	Books	5	2	2	N	N	An excellent book!	Diane Irons, author of seven books explaining tried and true beauty secrets, has created a program for you to lose weight, look your best, save money, and boost your energy with her 14-Day Beauty Boot Camp. I myself did this course, even though I am under 18, the suggested age (I got permission from my doctor), and I lost 10 pounds and got rid of my junk-food cravings in two weeks. I know it may sound unbelievable, but Diane Irons knows what to do to make this work. In the program, Diane discusses various topics each day, such as saving money one day, natural beauty, secret beauty and style weapons, and more. You'll also find many of her beauty secrets, but don't buy this book primarily for those, as it does not place a big emphasis on secrets.<br />Diane includes journal pages, where each day, you'll list things such as your goals for the program, best bargains you've found, favorite beauty secrets and tips, etc. There is also an accompanying audio CD that is inspirational and motivational. The reason why Diane's program is so effective is that she looks at your faults, and then gives you ideas and tips about how to fix them and make them your best features. She also includes easy and simple recipes to make that are delicious, so you don't have to worry about those diets that require you to eat nasty healthy foods. Each day, I listened to the CD, followed the instructions in the book, and ate one of the meals at breakfast, lunch, and dinner.<br />Within one week, I found that I was looking and feeling my best. Diane's program is excellent! I know some reviewers have put it down for being unbelievable and stupid, but believe me; it really, really does work! If it didn't, I would be giving it one star, moping about how much I hated this book. That's not the case, though. I'm so glad I followed this plan; it's really a lifesaver. Everytime I need a self-confidence boost or I need to loose some weight, I know that I'll turn to this book first. I suggest giving it a try- you most probably will love it!y- you most probably will love it!	2004-01-01
US	32236675	R2JXJTUMBG6XDD	0440207290	925672149	Don't Look Behind You	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Great Lois Duncan novel	April Corrigan, a bright-minded eleventh grader, had everything going for her: she was a straight-A student,  a star tennis player working towards the state championships, she had lots of friends, and she had a wonderful boyfriend. But April's perfect life comes to a halt when her family discovers that her father had been working secretly for the FBI and had been recieving death threats. So, April and her brother and mom go into secret hiding in a hotel for two weeks until they can return home again. April felt bored and enclosed- she couldn't call her friends, she couldn't go outside of the hotel, a bodyguard was constantly with her 24/7, and she had to stay indoors at all times. However, after two weeks, April's family recieves a \\"coast clear\\" sign enabeling them to return home. But that's not all- the death threats her father are recieving are starting to become more and more serious. April's parents didn't think that they could stay at home for long. To be safe, they legally change their indentity, names, and home. You can imagine how devastated April is! Not only must she be known as Valerie from now on, a killer threatening to kill April's father is on the loose. Can April's family destroy the killer and get their old life back? Read this exciting novel to find out!	2003-12-07
US	32236675	R3GZZXX6YHRMIW	0440213428	34602383	Who Killed My Daughter?: The True Story of a Mother's Search for Her Daughter's Murderer	Books	1	9	49	N	N	This book is trashy nonsense	First of all, let me start off by saying that I forced myself to finish this book. Lois Duncan is an excellent young adult novelist, but this try at non-fiction was in my opinion horrible. I'll give you a summary of the book first:<br />The book opens up with the last night that Lois Duncan saw and spoke to her daughter, Kaitlyn Arquette. Kait was planning on going over to her friend Monica's house to hang out and eat dinner, and possibly stay over. Lois had a feeling that something was going to go wrong, and her instincts proved right. While she was driving home, at approximately one o' clock in the morning, a car pulled up to her and the driver shot her in the head two times. Kait was immedietly rushed to the hospital, where her parents were immediately notified. Kait didn't die right away- she was seriously injured, and the doctors said it would take a miracle for her to survive. Sadly, Kait passed away in July 1989. Determined to find out who killed her daughter, (hence the title) Lois Duncan sets out on a search to find Kait's killer. But the search wasn't simple at all- in fact, Lois and her family were even recieving death threats if they continued their search. Her search led her into Kait's shocking secret life and into suspecting people not possible. Lois Duncan's determination to find her daughter made this the high point of this book.<br />Now let me say why I didn't like the book. First of all, Lois Duncan left the story like that without saying who Kait's killer REALLY was. I think it's kind of pointless to write a book describing your search for your child's killer, and then you leave the story wihtout even saying who did it. Maybe Duncan should have waited to find the killer BEFORE she wrote the story. At press time for the book, she still hadn't found Kait's killer. The second reason that I didn't like this book was because of all of those horrible phsychic readings- there are about twelve really boring long ones in this book. I don't know about you, but I found them to be boring and extremely hard to understand. They were irrevelent to the story and just made it more confusing. They were basically what ruined my enjoyment of this book. Last, I didn't like the story because it rarely had any excitement in it- it just dragged on and on, over 350 pages of nonsense. If you're bored and looking for a book to read to make you even more bored, maybe this book would be a good choice.	2003-12-07
US	32236675	RH2KO2WY42DBR	0060562250	846890982	Lemony Snicket: The Unauthorized Autobiography (A Series of Unfortunate Events)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A look into the (fictional) world of Lemony Snicket	As many of you probably know, this book is fiction. It focuses on the Series of Unfortunate Events, and gives you some insider information. Made up of letters, diary entries, photographs, clippings, and more, this book features hints to answers concerned with the Baudelaires, like \\"Where are the Quagmire triplets now?\\", or \\"Why is there a secret passage between the Baudelaire mansion and 667 Dark Avenue?\\", and \\"What is VFD?\\" You won't get complete answers to these questions, but if you read carefully, you'll discover that all of the strange features of this book are pieces of a puzzle that is waiting for the reader to solve it. In addition, this book had tons of humor, as do all of Lemony Snicket's books, and, if you've read the series, you'll hear about and see a lot of familiar characters, places, and names. Read and re-read this book after you finish each book in the series- it will help you have a clear picture of all the secrets concerned with A Series of Unfortunate Events.	2003-11-08
US	32236675	R1WEOJ34SCW44K	0380791412	95233212	Annie's Baby: The Diary of Anonymous, a Pregnant Teenager	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Somewhat dissapointed	This book is the so-called true diary of a teenager who became pregnant from her boyfriend. Annie was a happy, carefree fourteen-year-old teen when she met Danny. They quickly became fast friends, and Annie decided she \\"love, love, loved him!\\" However, Danny was not the person Annie thought he was. One night, he raped her, but Annie still believed that he had just gone crazy and would return to normal soon. He did return to normal, and they became even closer. In fact, on many occasions, Danny and Annie would have \\"it\\". When Annie took a home pregnancy test, she discovered that she was pregnant. Danny refused to help her and dumped her, while her journal (and her mother) became her only source of comfort and security. Being pregnant also brought many changes- Annie switched to a school for unwed mothers, she stopped thinking about Danny all the time, and she focused most of her attention on preparing for the baby and taking care of it. Annie chronicles in her diary the feelings of being pregnant, and she reveals all of her inner thoughts and emotions, so at times, the writing style seems a little choppy and pathetic. When Annie's baby was born, she faced even more responsibility taking care of her. The ending will either break your heart or have you feeling relieved.<br />I found several problems with this book. First of all, as mentioned above, I doubt this story is \\"true\\". It was in the fiction section of the library, what can I say? I think that Beatrice Sparks just read the diaries of several pregnant teenagers, and based on their entries, she edited them and combined them into a book. Second, the writing, also mentioned above, could be at far times very choppy and strange. Yes, it's the diary of a fourteen-year-old girl, but I doubt many people write the way Annie does. When she's happy, she's all bubbly, and repeats ideas over and over again. When she's depressed, she often curses and says how horrible life is. I tell you, it can get sickening hearing Annie say that her life is perfect one minute and the next hearing her cuss like there's no tommorrow. Furthermore, the title is very misleading. Annie's baby isn't born until about 3/4 of the way through the book, so much of its content doesn't focus on it. A different title, such as \\"Pregnant Annie\\" or \\"A Pregnant Teenager's Diary\\" would have been much more suiting.<br />Overall, I found this book to be okay. It's good if you want a quick, lighthearted read, but don't read it if you're looking for an inspirational story or a book with a lot of substance.	2003-11-02
US	32236675	RB6HB7I93WTPS	B00005R8BM	700641788	Teen People	Books	3	8	9	N	N	A pretty good teen magazine	&quot;Teen People&quot;, targeted to ages 13 and up, features articles mainly focusing on celebrities, beauty, fashion, along with occasional real-life stories about real teens, and what's going on in the world around us. However, I did come across several annoying parts of the magazine, which include:<br />- Too many advertisements: Basically, there's an ad on every other page, and about 12 in the front of the magazine. I wouldn't mind if they didn't have so many ads in the magazine.<br />- Short Articles: Many articles are just 1-3 pages long, while many other teen magazines have much longer articles. Whenever I finish a Teen People article, I'm thinking &quot;That's it? I want to read more!&quot;<br />-Doesn't focus much on real-life issues: Like I said earlier, this magazine does have some stories about real teens and news of what's going on, but not too much. If you're looking for magazines that feature more real-life stories and issues, I suggest getting something else.<br />Anyway, I would say that TeenPeople is a pretty good magazine, especially if you're obsessed with reading about the latest trends and celebrities. Other good teen magazines include &quot;CosmoGIRL!&quot;, &quot;YM&quot;, &quot;Seventeen&quot;, and &quot;Teen&quot;.	2003-10-12
US	32236675	R1VJEISD9GD21L	0446608955	721431789	A Walk to Remember	Books	1	3	5	N	N	This book has blazing problems	I have heard people praise this book for quite some time now. In order to get them to quit bugging me to read it, I checked it out from my library and read it in three days. Now, I can't say I was happy. This book seems like it was written in one night- especially because the book's quality is so bad. Anyway, I found this book to also be:<br />- Predictable: Just like a fairy tale, I could almost always guess what would happen next. C'mon, people like to read books with twists, turns, and surprises! (Which this book didn't have much of!)<br />- Rushed: Towards the end, ... all the events in the book were quickly rushed to that conclusion. That was seriously annoying, considering the fact that that conclusion was also just written to make the book seem a bit more interesting.<br />-Religous: On nearly EVERY page, this book has something to do with religon. It drove me nuts! (BEWARE!)<br />-Strange: Why Landon would fall for a perfect, sweet girl like Jamie, I don't know, but part of the problem here is that they have absoulutely no chemistry between them. I mean, half of the time they just sit and talk about the weather! Is that what real boyfriends and girlfriends do? (Though I'm not sure you can consider Landon and Jamie boyfriend and girlfriend)<br />- Flawless: ALL of the characters were (may I say this?) PERFECT. That's right, they had no flaws, and that just made them seem shallow and transparent. Why not have some characters that aren't so perfect once in a while?<br />I can go on and on about how bad this book was, but I'll stop here. If you're looking for a romance about two teenage high schoolers, forget this book. The plot is weak, characters are too perfect... yadda, yadda, yadda. Save your money, just don't read this book!	2003-10-03
US	32236675	R1YPBMITNY6MIY	0811829456	612027322	Crafty Girl: Cool Stuff	Books	1	11	14	N	N	This book is pathetic	I wasn't very impressed with this book. It gives the assumpstion that all girls who read it are \\"crafty girls\\", and are just the thought of fabric and scissors makes their fingers twitch with excitement. I don't know about you, but I doubt that many girls, especially young adults for whom this book is targeted too, are actually this crafty. So that, of course, means that many projects require complicated sewing, putting together, figuring out how to do- I don't have patience for those kinds of projects! The ideas for projects were nothing very new, and kind of dull and strange... like decorating a calculator with gems and beads, painting a phone green and gluing plastic bugs to it, making a net canopy for your bed with 36 yards of tulle... you get the idea. And, these projects aren't exactly budget-minded, either. Come on, the cost of materials and supplies for many of these projects require you to spend AT LEAST ten dollars just for one project- and in many cases, even more. Another thing that makes this book so bad is that their are no color pictures or step-by-step photos showing how to do the project or even a photo of the finished project- just a poorly-drawn line drawing. Please save your money, and buy a different craft book. Out of all of the good ones out there, this one with it's extremely high price (thirteen bucks for a little-and I mean LITTLE- paperback book), yes, is a RIP-OFF!!	2003-09-27
US	32236675	R2AJOFQYTCC2KG	0316910333	680713352	Gossip Girl #1: A Novel (Gossip Girl Series)	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Engrossing, yet trashy and unrealistic	After hearing so many rave reviews for this book, I decided to check it out for myself. When I started reading, this book was very hard to put down. However, I don't really think this was a five-star book. For one thing, the characters in this book are very shallow and unrealistic; they smoke, do drugs, are smart, spoiled, rich, wear the latest, most expensive designer clothing, have sex, and swear. I really don't think Cecily Von Ziegesar captured what upper east New York City teens were really like; probably just a small fraction act like this. Yes, the book was VERY inappropriate. Full of cuss words, talk of who had sex with who, gossip, and boyfriends ditching girlfriends (and vise-versa), I wasn't sure what age this book was targeted to. It seems inappropriate even for teenagers. <br />Not only that, but I found that the book really had no plot line. Like another reviewer said, when I got to the end, it really felt like it was the middle of the story. Basically, this book really has no beginning and no end. I enjoyed reading it, so I gave it three stars, but it's such a trashy \\"novel\\", I don't know if I'm gonna pick up any more Gossip Girl books in the future.	2003-09-14
US	32236675	R3GPS0J7BPMP9Z	1570711429	98619808	The World's Best-Kept Beauty Secrets: What Really Works in Beauty, Diet & Fashion	Books	5	24	24	N	N	One of Diane's best books	I recently purchased this book because I am a big fan of Diane Iron's books. All of them are filled with interesting, inexpensive, and easy-to-apply tips in diet, beauty, and fashion, and I was very pleased with &quot;The World's Best-Kept Beauty Secrets&quot;. Diane compiles over 230 essential pages of tips, advice, and secrets. Besides covering beauty, this book also features hair care advice, very neat fashion tips, delicious recipies all under 200 calories, diet secrets, and much, much more. For example, you can make cleansing masks out of kitty litter and mayonnaise (yes, kitty litter and mayonnaise), that work just as well, if not better, than store-bought masks. What to do if that party information says &quot;Formal Dress&quot; or &quot;City Attire&quot;? Turn to this book to find a description of good things to wear! Also, an entire chapter is devoted to secrets of models that seem to always look perfect. Did you know that many models use toothbrushes to clean their lips?- the bristles help slough off dead skin. Or that small birthday candles can get a stuck zipper to get going again? How about washing that scorched shirt from your iron with a basin of hydrogen peroxide and mild detergent?- it will bring your shirt back to life! Find many more of these useful tips, and much more in &quot;The World's Best Kept Beauty Secrets&quot;. It's a great invesment for all women, and will help you look your best no matter what.	2003-09-08
US	32236675	R1I3TOEJG6MUH1	0789308118	359659497	Super Suite: The Ultimate Bedroom Makeover Guide for Girls	Books	5	17	17	N	N	The BEST book on how to redecorate your room!	Currently, I am re-doing my room, and I've been looking for instructional books with fun, creative, cool, and easy-to-do projects for my room. I didn't really find any good ones, but when I discovered this at my local bookstore, I knew it would be perfect. As an added bonus, the book is written by Mark Montano, who has a monthly column in \\"CosmoGIRL!\\" called \\"Cool Room\\", in which girls get bedroom makeovers. Just like in the magazine, the rooms in this book are FABOLOUS! Each of them feature fantastic projects and crafts you can do to make your room look like the one you've always dreamed of. It has all sorts of themes- Victorian, flowers, historical, modern, glamourous, and many more- all that teenage girls today will enjoy. Plus, each chapter in the book includes a \\"Resources for this Room\\" section, where you'll find the places to go to find materials, supplies, etc. for the projects. (Also included in back is a \\"Buyer's Guide\\", a list of stores the author recommends checking out to find where to get cool materials) But don't worry-almost all of the projects in here require little or no money at all- but your room will still have that professional look!<br />All in all, I highly recommend this book. I've found it to be an awesome resource, and since I'm redecorating my room, I've chosen the \\"Flower Power\\" theme in this book. I've done many of the projects, and my room is looking great! If you're a girl who wants a totally cool room to hang out, study, retreat, and be yourself in (and if you want to be the envy of all of your friends!), then head to the bookstore today and buy YOUR copy of Super Suite! It's the best book out there for teen girls to makeover their room, and I'm 100% sure that you'll totally LOVE the results!	2003-08-24
US	32236675	R1YUSDOUYYYOB9	0789304791	56339966	Christina Aguilera	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A GREAT book for Christina Aguilera fans!	This book is filled with interesting facts, information, and quizzes for Christina Aguilera fans. It has a lot of AWESOME pictures on every page, with cool facts and quotes peppered throughout the book. This book does much more than give you Christina's life story, it also includes pages describing Christina's look with ideas and tips for trying them out yourself, how to do your make-up the way she does, and even fun info on who would be a perfect date for Christina (along with some really cute pictures!) Throughout the book there are quizzes that you can take to test your Christina Aguilera knowledge, and even a special chapter just for fans. This is the ultimate guide for all Christina Aguilera fans, or anyone who just wants to learn more about this talented superstar.	2003-08-03
US	32236675	RDZVGSV8TW6JY	0439266440	43786288	Elisabeth of Austria: The Princess Bride (The Royal Diaries)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Awesome Royal Diaries Book	This was one of my favorite books in the Royal Diaries series. While the diary portion is not too long (it's 93 pages), I still enjoyed reading all about Princess Elisabeth's engagement and wedding to Franz Joseph I, Emporer of Austria. <br />Elisabeth (whose nickname is Sisi) is a fifteen-year-old princess living a happy and carefree life in Austria. Before her life changed so drastically, she enjoyed horseback riding, taking walks with her father, and writing poetry. When Elisabeth's mother receives a letter from Aunt Sophie one day (the Emporer's mother) inviting her and Elisabeth's sister Helene (whose nickname is Nene), her mother jumps at the opportunity especially because she has been discussing the possibility of marrying Nene to the Emporer. Elisabeth wasn't planning on going, but when her mother got the idea that she should go along because the Emporer's brother, Archduke Karl Ludwig, would be there. But when they finally do arrive at the Emporer's palace, the Emporer falls in love with Elisabeth, and proposes to her soon after they meet. After that, Elisabeth's life is thrown into a complete frenzy as she prepares to wed the Emporer and become the Emperess of Austria. The book also describes her wedding, and includes an epilouge telling about the rest of Elisabeth's life.	2003-08-01
US	32236675	R29T4KJ2KNVVLR	0312975341	463831876	Christina Aguilera	Books	4	3	3	N	N	An interesting look at Christina Aguilera's life	This book provides a nicely detailed 143-page biography about Christina Aguilera. Since it was written back in 2000, it doesn't cover Christina's life after releasing her first CD. From the photo on the front cover, you can tell this book does not chronicle her life up to now. However, this book is filled with interesting information about Christina in an easy-to-read format that first-time fans would find interesting. I wouldn't recommend this book to die-hard Christina Aguilera fans as they would probably know most of the information in the book. It's one of the most detailed biographies written about her, with eight pages of photos. At the end of the book, the author gives a recap of Christina's life up to early 2000. Also included are a discography and recommended Christina websites. This book makes a great introduction to the life of Christina Aguilera.	2003-07-29
US	32236675	R2QFCSO29ZYHS7	1562475304	461423149	Oops!: The Manners Guide for Girls (American Girl Library)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	If you want to improve your manners....	...then get this book! It's filled with tons of practical advice for ages 8 and up. If your manners need some polishing up, then I would suggest reading this book. Like all of the American Girl Library books, it's in a fun-to-read, easy-to-understand format and includes valuable information that girls really can use.<br />\\"Oops!: The Manners Guide For Girls\\" includes ettiquette advice for basic manners, greetings and introductions, manners with friends, gifts and presents, table manners, special occasions, embarrasing moments and horrors, and so much more. Sprinkled throughout the book are quizzes to test your ettiquette, answers to questions sent by real girls, and advice for sticky situations. This is one of the best books I've read for improving your manners. If you're a girl (or parent of one) with manners you think could use improvement, read this book.	2003-07-27
US	32236675	R21E4AJ1W9L87T	1584851651	840351235	School Smarts: All the Right Answers to Homework, Teachers, Popularity, and More!	Books	4	14	14	N	N	Great for girls in grades 5-9	This book is filled with practical advice and tips for school. It's even hole-punched so you can keep it in your binder or notebook. What makes this book unique is that it's in a fun, colorful style, unlike those 300-page study manuals that you will fall asleep within reading the first page. <br />\\"School Smarts\\" includes ideas, tips, and advice for homework, taking tests, popularity, organizing your school stuff, reading successfully, taking great notes, and much, much more. Also included are tons of fun quizzes, quotes from girls, ways to make homework more fun, and study tips. \\"School Smarts\\" is the perfect book for girls in grades 5-9. It will help you become a better student, no matter what your GPA is.	2003-07-27
US	32236675	R2XI9VEUG3L3G0	1562475312	2181108	Groom Your Room: Terrific Touches to Brighten Your Bedroom (American Girl Library)	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Good for younger girls	I think this book would be good for girls ages 9 and under who would like to clear the clutter in their room and make some simple projects to brighten it up, but a girl who is 10 years old or over would probably want a more mature style for their room. This book's main focus was cleaning up the clutter in your room, with some projects at the end like painting your dresser, making a bedspread, or decorating a lamp. Since the book didn't have too many projects, I think it would be best to skip this book if you want to give your room a make-over. If you want to redo your room, I would suggest reading \\"Room for You\\", \\"Have Fun With Your Room\\", or \\"Super Suite\\".	2003-07-26
US	32236675	R2GBVZXP2EQ25	0815411537	487940414	Cher: If You Believe	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Outstanding Biography	This book is the best and most up-to-date biography of Cher available today. If you thought that her autobiography &quot;The First Time&quot; didn't really reveal anything about her life, try reading this book. <br />This book is filled with candid information and never-before-told secrets about Cher's life. This book chronicles EVERY single little thing about Cher, from the number of boyfriends she had to how she felt about Sonny Bono's running for mayor of Palm Springs. The book covers Cher's life up to 2000, and includes information about her &quot;Believe&quot; album and tour, and the movie she released in 2000. Also included in back is a full discography, moviegraphy, episode-by-episode guide of &quot;The Sonny &amp; Cher Comedy Hour&quot;, and even a &quot;boyfriendography&quot;!<br />If you want to find out about this mega-talented superstar known simply as Cher, this is the book to read. Enjoy!	2003-07-26
US	32236675	R20IDC6Y27OAJW	0689840918	187854254	Christina Aguilera	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Not too many details...	This book is great for fans of Christina who haven't read anything about her, but if you are looking for a book with a full detail of her life up to now, don't read this book. (For a book with more detailed and updated information about Christina, I would recommend reading \\"Christina Aguilera: A Star is Made\\" by Pier Dominguez.) It provides a brief, 48-page biography of Christina's life up to the release of her debut album, and has color photos on every page. Like I said, it's a good introduction to Christina, but don't read it if you want details.	2003-07-25
US	32236675	R23L2NA4JKD6U8	1552975762	315005094	The Complete Book of Hairstyling	Books	3	75	75	N	N	Um....	This book wasn't the best one I've read about hairstyling. The book does give a few good hair-care tips, but many of the styles in here are a little difficult to do and I don't think anyone who isn't good at hairstyling would be able to do them without help. Most of the styles in this book are for special occassions like weddings, dates, and vacations. &quot;The Complete Book of Hairstyling&quot; would be a good book if you want to find a style for one of the occasions above, but other then that, it would be wise to skip this book.	2003-07-25
US	32236675	RTO22U6UOD93T	0761101861	8649308	Beauty: The New Basics	Books	5	4	5	N	N	One of the only beauty books you'll need...	&quot;Beauty: The New Basics&quot; is the ultimate guide to looking your best and feeling great. Full of practical advice, hints, tricks, and tips, this book makes a wonderful reference guide for beauty maniacs everywhere. It covers tons of beauty topics, including hair-care, make-up and cosmetics, hand and foot care, bath and body, and many more. Also included are many quick beauty fixes, cool beauty secrets and tips, and a guide in the back of the book to the best day spas, destination spas, hair salons, and places to shop for cosmetics. Keep this book on your vanity table, and when you have a beauty problem or question, turn to this book for the answer. It's one of the best beauty guides out there, and you will refer to it again and again long after you've spend the worthwhile twenty dollars on it.	2003-07-12
US	32236675	R2M6GYPWCU61WD	0201151677	825386105	A Girl's Guide to Life	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Great book	\\"A Girl's Guide to Life\\" is a great book for ages 9-13. It covers topics such as making gifts, fun games to play, snacks and cooking, basic social skills, art projects and crafts, and much more. The topics are all divided into chapters, including money, hygeine and grooming, safety, fixing and making things, things to do inside and outside, and more. I wouldn't recommend this book to girls older than 13 because they would probably know most of the things in here, but even they can learn something in it. The book is also a great boredom buster for hot summer days, or rainy days when there's nothing to do. Overall, this is an excellent book.	2003-07-08
US	32236675	R3NXKEJH8N9DXA	1877988154	151242089	Don't Go Shopping for Hair Care Products Without Me: Over 2,000 Brand Name Products Reviewed Plus the Latest Hair Care Information	Books	5	13	14	N	N	A little outdated, but very helpful book	Just like she did with \\"Don't Go to the Cosmetics Counter Without Me\\" and \\"Blue Eyeshadow Should Absolutely be Illegal\\", Paula Begoun has written another book exposing secrets from the industry- this time for hair care! Not only does this book have reviews of over 2,000 hair care products, but it also has useful hair care information including valuable advice about coloring your hair, choosing the right type of hair care products, to perm or not to perm, finding your hair type (and taking care of it!), and much more. The majority of the book takes up the reviews of hair care products, and the brands are helpfully arranged in alphabetical order for quick and easy reference. Brands with products reviewed in this book include Herbel Essence, The Body Shop, Paul Mitchell, Head and Shoulders, Pantene, KMS, Vidal Sassoon, Mary Kay, and much, much more. Paula's reviews are honest and will help you make a good choice on what kind of products you should buy. (Each review includes a price of the product so you see how much you'll be spending). Yes, the book IS a little outdated, but a new edition has been published, which amazon.com does not sell. Whether you're looking for an inexpensive shampoo for your hair type, or you just want some valuable hair care advice, \\"Don't Go Shopping for Hair Care Products Without Me\\" is the perfect book for you.	2003-07-03
US	32236675	R2MLSOCDQ9E6SV	0689825854	595418753	Have Fun with Your Room : 28 Cool Projects for Teens	Books	5	7	9	N	N	AWESOME!	If you're a teen who is bored with your room, or think that it's time for a change, this is the book you need. Lynette Jennings, star of the Discovery Channel's \\"Lynette Jennings Design\\" has written a wonderful book for teens who want to redecorate their rooms. The book includes 28 projects, and four themes. (Nature Girl, Funky Chick, Flower Power, and Teddy Bears. If you're confused about which theme to choose, you can take the quiz at the beginning of the book which will help you decide) Each theme includes at least 6 fun projects that are easy to do and don't require any expensive materials. In fact, Lynnete even says in the introduction that the rooms in the book were created on a baby-sitter's budget, so you won't have to spend tons of money. Some projects include window toppers, headboards, bulletin boards, decorating pillows and lampshades, cool paint techniques, and much more. This is a fantastic book for any teen girl who thinks their room is to ho-hum and wants to change it.	2003-06-29
US	32236675	RTJM1HAS137P	0789439565	880061898	Change Your Room	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A good book for kids who want to change their room	This book is filled with ideas and projects to re-do your room and to keep it clean and clutter-free. It includes many craft projects such as decorating furniture, making picture frames, making and decorating pillows, lampshades, and much more. The book gives you step-by-step instructions for each project, and most of them don't require expensive or hard-to-find materials. Plus, there are tips in this book about keeping your room clean and cleaning the clutter. I would recommend this book for ages 8-12. Teens would probably enjoy \\"Super Suite\\" by Mark Montano, or \\"Have Fun With Your Room: 28 Cool Projects for Teens\\" by Lynette Jennings better. This is a great book for children or even parents who want to make their children's rooms a more fun, better place.	2003-06-29
US	32236675	RW5PHFFWNZZB5	006029809X	517650990	The Trouble Begins: A Box of Unfortunate Events, Books 1-3 (The Bad Beginning; The Reptile Room; The Wide Window)	Books	5	11	14	N	N	Unfortunate indeed!	In Lemony Snicket's \\"A Series of Unfortunate Events\\" books, one minute you're laughing nonstop, and the next minute you're in suspense wondering how the Baudelaire orphans will escape from the greedy clutches of Count Olaf this time. In the first book, Violet, Sunny, and Klaus Baudelaire find out that their parents have died in a terrible fire that burned their entire house down. Mr. Poe, their gaurdian, sent them to live with Count Olaf, a relative of the Baudelaires. But after living with him for a short time, Violet, Klaus, and Sunny discover that Count Olaf is after the fortune they inherited from their parents and will do anything to get the fortune for himself. The Baudelaires finally escaped from him, but that's only the beginning. Mr. Poe keeps on sending the children to new gaurdians, but every time, Count Olaf is there, disguised as someone in hopes of getting his hands on the children and the fortune. However, Sunny, Violet and Klaus are clever and manage to think up of smart strategies for getting themselves out of dangerous situations. When you finish each book, you will be wondering \\"what will happen to the Baudeliers next?\\" After reading the first three books in the series, you will be hungry to read more and more.	2003-06-26
US	32236675	R22U8LFWM7522Q	1402200080	516364952	Bargain Beauty Secrets: Tips and Tricks for Looking Great and Feeling Fabulous	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Another wonderful book from Diane Irons!	&quot;Bargain Beauty Secrets&quot; is the perfect book for those who want to look good and feel great, but do not want to spend tons of money on beauty products and supplies. Diane Irons' tips are easy to follow and require little or no money at all. Many money-saving tips and advice are included for fitness, make-up and cosmetics, accessories &amp; clothes, travel, shopping, and much more. Plus, there are lots of homemade facials, masks, and remedies, all that require simple, unexpensive materials easily found at home or the supermarket. Not only that, but the book also included many model and celebrity secrets from people such as Jennifer Aniston, Britney Spears, Mariah Carey, Jennifer Lopez, and much more. Anyone who has enjoyed Diane Irons' other books or wants to look beautiful without spending too much money will love this book.	2003-06-23
US	32236675	R2VRGBR3KJZKUC	1562476661	115779313	The Care and Keeping of You (American Girl) (American Girl Library)	Books	5	14	14	N	N	A solid introduction to puberty and taking care of yourself	I got this book when I was about 9 or 10 years old. I read it, and it answered many of the questions I had about growing up. This book, while not as detailed as \\"The What's Happening To My Body: Book For Girls\\", is a great introduction to puberty and it includes valuable advice and information on taking care of yourself. This book is in a \\"head-to-toe\\" format, starting at hair and going all the way down to feet. The book also explains the changes puberty will bring; such as: your period, breasts, pubic hair, body hair, acne, and more. Also included is helpful advice on choosing a bra, choosing from tampons or pads, shaving, and the book also gives you complete instructions for applying tampons complete with illustrations. The book includes many letters from girls with questions on growing up and taking care of yourself, with answers to each one. This is a great book for all girls who are just about or are going through puberty. Highly recommended!	2003-06-22
US	32236675	R3CL2VN6QP73LH	0789447088	874500219	DK Space Encyclopedia	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A valuable reference for anyone interested in space	This is a wonderful book, exploring nearly every aspect of space, from the Big Bang to black holes. The book is easy to understand and fun to read whether you're doing a project about space or if you just enjoy reading about it. It's chock-full of hundreds of beautiful photographs and realistic-looking pictures, too. The book is accurate, colorful, and up-to-date, and I enjoy looking through it and reading it in my spare time.<br />This book covers many, many topics in space. Some of them include the solar system, the planets, the sun, meteors, comets, asteroids, the Milky Way, how the universe started and what it will be like in the future, galaxies, stars, the Big Bang, other solar systems, black holes, and much more. <br />Plus, the book has an entire stargazing section, with directions to make your own simple telescope, star maps, observing the sky, binocular astronomy, and a lot more! <br />Overall, I highly recommend this book. Adults will enjoy reading it and they will learn a lot too, and young children will enjoy looking at the photographs and having adults explain to them the text. This is a valuable and complete reference, and nearly everyone will enjoy reading it.	2003-06-21
US	32236675	R20CPW88DCE0V5	0060088818	288692896	Bobbi Brown Beauty Evolution: A Guide to a Lifetime of Beauty (Bobbi Brown Series)	Books	5	26	27	N	N	a guide to looking and feeling your best	&quot;Bobbi Brown Beauty Evolution&quot; is a guide to looking good and staying healthy from your 20s to your 70s and beyond. Six chapters cover each decade of your life, starting at age 20 and going on to beyond the age of 70. In each of these chapters, Bobbi explains what kind of make-up and cosmetics products you should use and why. After that, there's a chapter about staying fit and healthy. It includes information about the kind of nutrients you should be getting during each decade, too. Also inluded are tips on make-up and applying it, including how to find the right colors for you. My favorite part of the book were the chapters about the kinds of tools your would need to apply make-up. Plus, an entire chapter covered cleaning out your make-up drawer/cabinet/bag, with advice on what to keep and toss, and it also included a general timetable for make-up's life span. Many more topics were covered in this book, including caring for your skin, answers to beauty questions, quick fixes for beauty emergencies, beauty while you're pregnant, and much more. This book is an essential guide to beauty throughout your entire life.	2003-06-20
US	32236675	R1JF0AUHR1YCO5	1584150440	121302699	Christina Aguilera (Real Life Reader Biography Ser)	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Not Very Imformative...	This is another title in the \\"Real Life Reader Biography\\" series. These books are quick, short biographies of famous singers, actors, entertainers, and atheletes. I enjoy reading them when I want to learn more about someone, (there are over 100 titles in the series) but these books do not give you much information if you are planning on doing a report or a project about the person. This entry in the series about Christina Aguilera discusses her life up until the release of \\"Christina Aguilera\\". It includes many black-and-white photos of Christina and plenty of sidebars. However, this book wasn't very imformative, and it was only 32 pages. Plus, the printing was VERY large. This book doesn't really tell about Christina's life outside of her singing career, and that was one thing that I really wanted to find out in this book. I would recommend this book to younger Christina Aguilera fans or to anyone who hasn't ever read any material about her life before. For those fans who want a longer and more detailed biography of Christina Aguilera, I would recommend you reading the book \\"Christina Aguilera: A Star is Made\\", by Pier Dominguez.	2003-06-13
US	32236675	R10Z4K4OFQ39HO	1557044449	283012903	What's Happening to My Body? Book for Girls: A Growing-Up Guide for Parents and Daughters	Books	5	7	7	N	N	The best guide about puberty ever!	This book is a complete, up-to-date book about all the changes a girl goes through during puberty. It is an extremely helpful resource covering topics such as breasts, body hair and odor, getting your period, acne and skin care, romantic and sexual feelings, taking care of your body during puberty, and much more. The book helps you make guesses on things like when you will start puberty or get your period. Also, this book features over 50 drawings to explain nearly all the topics. Not only that, but the book is filled with qoutes from real girls and women who explain what it was like for them to go through all these changes and how they felt about it. You'll also get advice and info. on what type of pads or tampons are right for you, different diseases such as AIDS, eating disorders, signs that you will get your period soon, and much more. Included in the back of the book are resources, websites, and phone numbers for girls going through puberty and other changes. This book is a must-have for all girls going through puberty, and one of the only guides that explains EVERYTHING you need to know. (If you're a boy, or a parent of one, you'll probably like \\"The What's Happening To My Body: Book for Boys, also written by the same authors.)	2003-06-07
US	32236675	RQHI1DMS9TLL1	1877988308	222048490	Don't Go to the Cosmetics Counter Without Me	Books	5	7	13	N	N	Go to the cosmetics counter with this book!	This book is a must-have for all women and teens who shop for cosmetics and make-up. Written by Paula Beguoun, a beauty and cosmetics expert, this book helps you make a wise descision before going to the nearest Clinique counter at your local Macy's and spending nearly $... Begoun reviews over 40,000 cosmetics including eyeshadow, blush, lipstick, lotion, powder, eyeliner, mascara, exfoliators, bath products, and much, much more. Over 300 cosmetics lines have products reviewed, including Revlon, Max Factor, Bonne Bell, Bobbi Brown, Lancome, Clinique, L'Oreal, Neutrogena, Avon, and a lot more! Also, Begoun reviews baby-care products and men's skin-care products. Each review also has the price of the product so you can determine how much you'll be spending before heading to the cosmetics counter. If you're thinking that everyone's different and that the products will affect each person individually, so you shouldn't follow the reviews in this book, don't worry! Begoun mainly lists the ingredients and how they will most likely affect everyone's skin. For example, she may give a product a low rating because it included irritating skin ingredients. If you are looking for reviews of hair-care products, however, I would suggest reading \\"Don't Go Shopping for Hair-Care Products Without Me\\", also written by Paula Begoun. This book is a wise purchase and invaluable reference for all women and teens who buy cosmetics.	2003-06-06
US	32236675	R5VJ3E74VFBX6	0736036970	136668259	Artistry on Ice: Figure Skating Skills and Style	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Great Resource for Skaters!	Nancy Kerrigan, two-time Olympic medalist, has written a book for skaters full of tips and advice that she has learned and used during her years as a Senior skater. Nancy states in the introduction, &quot;Artistry on Ice is not focused on the early fundamentals...[it] is intended for intermediate to advanced skaters...and includes tips for sharpening their competitive skills&quot;. However, even beginners will benefit from the many tips and land and water excercises featured in the book to develop strength for skating. This book features clear instructions and full-color photographs covering nearly every aspect of intermediate and advanced skating, including all kinds of jumps, spins, essential skills like spread eagles and spirals, competition, partner skating, off-ice training, and more. Also, you will find thousands of hints and tips for performing various skating movements that have worked for Kerrigan herself. Plus, a whole section of the book is devoted to competition, covering cosutmes, music, choreography, and bringing it all together. This book is full of practical advice and will help all skaters reach for that shining star!	2003-06-01
US	32236675	R3J5IEJAR70NNB	1570714460	59436906	911 Beauty Secrets: An Emergency Guide to Looking Great at Every Age, Size and Budget	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Fantastic Beauty Book	Diane Irons' &quot;911 Beauty Secrets&quot; is filled with many beauty tips, model and celebrity secrets, diets, homemade remidies and masks, and much more. Many of the tips in here are easy to follow and require no other materials besides the ones easily found at home, at the grocery store, and at the beauty supply store. Plus, the book includes fashion and shopping tips, with advice on everything from what to put in your handbag to and the clothes that will work best for you. There are many quick emergency fixes in here, such as taking care of cuts, skin burns, cold sores, etc. Plus, you will get good tips on choosing the right types and colors of cosmetics, quick beauty fixes, and more. My favorite thing about this book were the beauty masks and treatments. For example, did you know that a corn meal and papaya treatment can make the dry skin on your elbows feel super soft? Or that soaking a skin burn in milk for fifteen minutes will soothe the burn? How about using some petroleum jelly to ease the sting from a paper cut? These are just some of the marvelous beauty treatments you will find in this book. This book is a very wise purchase. Trust me, after you've bought it, you will be refering to it all the time to look your best!	2003-05-25
US	32236675	RBLW9VF05PS5R	0761123008	301692679	Curly Girl	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Celebration of Curly Hair!	I was looking for a good book that gave good tips for treating my curly hair, and this is the best one. This book is all about curly hair- it gives information on caring for curls, good products to use, hair-care tips, a daily routine for curly hair, quizzes, tips on caring for wavy, corkscrew and Botticelli curls, homemade hair treatments, confessions of curly-haired women and girls, and much more. I found the daily routine for my Botticelli curls extremely helpful. My hair has become shinier, less frizzy, and full of life. In fact, before reading this book I was ashamed of my curls and I, like many girls in this book confessed, wanted shiny, beautiful straight hair. However, after reading this book, I am proud of my curly hair, and I wouldn't give it up for anything! This book is perfect for curly-haired girls who hate their curls and are looking for a real confidence-booster. I guarantee that after you have finished this book and followed the routines and tips for taking care of your curls, you will love your hair!	2003-05-24
US	32236675	R1BVWHMKGVM3VD	0736035486	83377471	The Complete Book of Figure Skating	Books	5	14	14	N	N	You Need this Book!	This is one of the best books about figure skating available. It is an excellent guide for figure skaters who want to improve their skills and a good coaching reference. Many photos and step-by-step instructions provide information for learning turns and footwork, spins, jumps, freestyle moves, basic moves, and pairs. Also included in this book are information on choosing skates, warming up, types of figure skating, fitness and strength, and more. Plus, there is helpful information on choosing music and costumes for programs. This book is a wonderful, helpful reference for all figure skaters and coaches.	2003-05-24
US	32236675	R3O302OR7JWHID	0525469265	572423975	Double Fudge	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Fudge is Back!	The new Fudge book has finally been published! In this book, Peter Hatcher's five-year-old brother Fudge has developed an obsession with money. He counts his money, makes his own \\"Fudge Bucks\\", browses through mail-order catalogs, asks people how much money they have, and decides to make enough Fudge Bucks to buy Toys R Us! This obsession is driving Peter and his family crazy! When they decide to take a trip to the US Mint in hopes that it will put a rest to Fudge's obsession, they end up meeting long lost cousins in the giftshop of the mint with a Fudge of their own! Now, Peter not only has to face two Fudges, his two cousins Flora and Fauna, but his best friend Jimmy Fargo is also moving to another part of the city!  Could it get any more weird or worse? Well, start wondering what will happen next in this book, because when you have Fudge around, anything can- and usually does- happen!	2003-05-24
US	32236675	R3UA1PAOVFD1ET	1570713758	938786447	The World's Best-Kept Diet Secrets	Books	5	15	16	N	N	A diet book that actually works!!	This is the only diet book I have read that really shows results! No, this is not one of those books with just one diet to follow. This book pulls together secrets from models, superstars, people who have had succesful diets, and more. Inside this book, you will find neat secrets that will help you lose weight without going through all that trouble! I also enjoyed learning how models, singers, and actresses stay so thin. For example, did you know that many models carry kelp tablets to speed up metabolism? Or, that Jamie Lee Curtis onece cut all fat from her diet and ate nothing but vegetables to get a role in a movie?! Not only that, but this book also includes many success stories of people who have been on diets and came out happy and appreciative of their bodies. You will also find free sources (mostly websites) which provide advice and tips for dieters. I also enjoyed the chapter with tons of delicious recipies all under 200 calories. Whether your goal is to lose 35 pounds in two months, or you just need to lose 5 pounds for a party next week, this book is a wonderful reference and very helpful.	2003-05-24
US	32236675	R9QAE8LUGIFAP	0970222459	825159939	Christina Aguilera: A Star is Made: The Unauthorized Biography	Books	5	5	7	N	N	One of the best biographies out there	\\"Christina Aguilera: A Star is Made\\" is one of the best biographies ever written about a singer. This is not one of those glossy books with tons of pictures and inaccuarate info, but a wonderful, detailed look at the singer's life. In this book, Christina's childhood is vividly described. The book tells about how she has always loved to sing, the places she's had to move to as a child, things she enjoyed doing, how kids at school were jealous of her singing talent, and of course, her time on the New Mickey Mouse Club. This book goes on to tell how Christina got signed to a record deal, her days as a teenager, and much more. Not only that, but this book outlines Christina's entire singing career up to the release of \\"Stripped\\". It also describes her transformation from girl-next-door to a \\"dirrty\\" music superstar. Plus, the book includes information about Christna's so-called rival Britney Spears, and a photo gallery featuring photos of Christina from when she was a child all the way up to today. Overall, this is a wonderful biography, and truly one that Christina fans will love. The book is so detailed and includes such good info, you won't even believe it's unauthorized!	2003-05-18
US	32236675	R3A7TOM6F9024N	0806994010	520966967	388 Great Hairstyles	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Nice Book	This book is pretty good, but it's not one of those books that have hairstyles like braids and buns. The book starts off with some basic haircuts for all lengths of hair, then it goes on to give many hairstyles that can be acheived with one of the basic cuts. This book includes hairstyles for short, medium, and long hair, and has hairstlyes for all types of hair. This book also features tips about caring for your hair and what to do if you have problems like oily hair or split ends. My only complaint is that the book lacks instruction. There is some instruction, but not much. However, this is a great book, and wonderful for anyone who wants to do something new with their hair.	2003-05-11
US	32236675	R2PR6IB6HW6F1G	0743451406	643560386	Aaliyah: More Than a Woman	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Okay Biography	I had high hopes for this book, but when I finished reading it i was dissapointed. The book told all about Aaliyah, her early life, accomplishments in music and movies, her love life, and her death. The material on Aaliyah's life was the only good part of the book, because the book kept on going off-topic to discuss lives of Aaliyah's family members, producers, fellow musicians and singers, and other people Aaliyah was involved with. This got very annoying for me, because I wanted to read about Aaliyah, not her cousins or music producers. The book could have been better researched in my opinion, and I wish it focused on Aaliyah's life only.	2003-05-07
US	32236675	R1CII1PZBEDSJK	0060096071	988812780	Princess in Waiting (The Princess Diaries, Vol. 4)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Wonderful Sequel!	The fourth book in the Princess Diaries series, this one continued right where \\"Princess In Love\\" left off. Mia has been spending her winter break in Genovia so she could be formally introduced to Genovians. However, Genovians have never seen a princess like Mia- who believed that Genovia needs public parking meters because of traffic and parking problems! Mia dosen't enjoy it that much in Genovia, especially because she couldn't see her new boyfriend Michael, who she has been in love with forever. Mia only got to speak to Michael a couple of times on the phone, and she had been counting the days down in her journal until winter break is over and she can see Michael again. When Mia gets back to Genovia, Michael finally asks her out on a date to the movies! But then once again, Mia found out she couldn't go because Grandmere (as usual) wanted her to go to a black-and-white ball the exact same day as her date with Micheal! Not only that, but Mia is depressed because now she's afraid Micheal is going to dump her for not going, she figures out herself she has no special talent, and when Lily tells her she does, Mia spends all her time trying to figure it out! However, the ending is one of the best parts of the story- where everything turns out okay in the end.	2003-05-07
US	32236675	R3ATZ8K8W4ZBAP	1584853697	528361126	Room for You: Find Your Style and Make Your Room Say You! (American Girl Library)	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Girls who wanna redecorate their rooms need this book!	This is one of the best books I have read on redecorating your bedroom. (and I've read many!) This isn't one of those books where you find out you don't have all the materials you need for the project, then you have to rush to the nearest art or craft store and spend $. This book's projects are simple and don't require a lot of money, yet when you're done your room will look great! The way this book works is that you start off by taking a quiz to determine whether you are a sparkly girl, a nature girl, a sunny girl, or a bold girl. After you have found out what style you are, you turn to the chapter of your style and you'll find decorating tips to freshen your room up. Not only that, in the back of the book there is a \\"Room Doctor\\" chapter with advice for getting the room of your dreams without spending a lot of money, tips on making cleaning your room less boring and more fun, tips on redecorating if you share a room, and more. There is also a \\"Girl's Fix-It Guide\\" with tips from other girls if your room is too messy, crowded, blah and boring, or small. This is a fantastic book and I highly recommend it to all girls who need to redecorate their room. It has helped my room go from super-boring to super-cool!	2003-05-04
US	32236675	R2LZPDDPAELO8Y	0880117109	743279161	Rhythmic Gymnastics	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A Rhythmic Gymnastics Bible	This is one of the best, most complete books I have ever read about any sport, and it inspired me to try rhythmic gymnastics, which I now love. A fabulous resource, with plenty of pictures and diagrams, this book includes chapters about body movements, dance, apparatus handling techniques, putting together routines, coaching hints and strategies, competition advice and info, and much, much more. This is the only book that you will need as a rhythmic gymnast or a coach to get the best out of rhythmic gymnastics. A wonderful, fantastic book, and highly recommended!	2003-05-03
US	32236675	R1NKFO5TPKDGAF	0064472272	46574095	Angus, Thongs and Full-Frontal Snogging: Confessions of Georgia Nicolson (Confessions of Georgia Nicolson, Book 1)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A funny, nice read	\\"Angus, Thongs, and Full-Frontal Snogging\\" is a funny, light read for all teens. The book's main character, Georgia, is going through many troubles that most teens go through. She's in love with the Sex God (a.k.a. Robbie), she has a little sister Libby who is constantly annoying her, she has a giant cat named Angus who is (nearly)the size of a dog, and she's going through puberty. Not only that, but Georgia's parents are also planning to take her all the way to New Zealand to live there for a while! Of course, now Georgia thinks her life will be ruined. This book took place in England, so there are some English words. Don't worry, there's a glossary in the back explaining each English word! This was a wonderful book. Highly recommended!	2003-04-27
US	32236675	RC6RH8AEQ78GU	068484673X	518170907	The OFFICIAL BOOK OF FIGURE SKATING	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Best Book About Figure Skating Available Today!	I'm a figure skating fan and I thoroughly love this book. Written by the U.S. Figure Skating Association, this book includes a history of figure skating, biographical sketches of famous figure skaters, how to skate, fitness, information about competition and judging, and much, much more. This book also has many beautiful, full-color photographs of figure skaters and also has instructions and clear pictures on how to perform various skating moves. This is a wonderful book and I highly recommend it to all figure skaters, fans, coaches, and anyone who just wants to learn more about this wonderful sport.	2003-04-26
US	32236675	R1898Z483BWPVN	0071399232	243154410	Test Taking Strategies & Study Skills for the Utterly Confused	Books	5	31	35	N	N	Fantastic Book!	One of the best books about test-taking and study skills today, this is a book that really helps you study better and do good on tests. The book includes chapters about taking specific kinds of tests such as true-false, multiple choice, fill-in-the-blank, matching, and math tests. Also, this book helps you manage your time, read well, calm test jitters, learn to study well, and much more! A wonderful, well-written book by an experienced eduacator that really does help you have better test-taking strategies and study skills! For all the &quot;utterly confused&quot; out there, read this book! You will be a better student- and a better test-taker after reading it.	2003-04-24
US	32236675	R2RVYE8W6MBT92	0768910781	377061193	Get Wise! Mastering Writing Skills	Books	5	2	2	N	N	What a Wonderful Book!	Another fun-to-read title in the Get Wise! series, this book teaches you what you need to know to write fabolous essays. As always, Chi is there to perk things up and make them interesting. The book starts off with a chapter about choosing right words and how to make sentences come alive with vocabulary. Then, moving on, the book teaches about sentences and how to make them interesting and amazing. After that, you will learn all the basics of writing great paragraphs. Then you will learn about brainstorming, with great methods that really work. And after that comes the essay! The method for writing an essay in here is one that really works, too! After that chapter comes a chapter on editing and revising, and finally a chapter about timed essays. In conculsion, this was a wonderful book for teaching troubled students how to write fantastic essays. Wonderful book!	2003-04-24
US	32236675	R3O5SS99UU2IP7	0609807013	670094827	Britney Spears' Heart to Heart	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Well-Written, Wonderful Book!	Britney and Lynne Spears have done a wonderful job writing Britney's life story. The book chronicles Britney's entire life from her birth to after the release of \\"Oops, I Did It Again\\". The book shows that Britney wasn't always rich, in fact her family did go through some financial problems. Britney and Lynne also write about how from an early age Britney showed her talent for singing and dancing. I specifically enjoyed reading about Britney's childhood, there is a lot of information about young Britney that I loved reading about. It was also interesting to learn about how Britney got her record deal, and how nervous she and her mom were before her audition- the same one that ended up giving Britney a record deal! Britney and Lynne talk about mother-and-daughter issues, such as clothes, serious issues (such as sex and drugs), how to help each other over come obstacles, amd more. This was an awesome book, perfect for any Britney Spears fan. There were also tons of cool pictures, of Britney from when she was a baby, as a child, a teen, and all the way up to the year 2000. However, I feel as though Britney and Lynne should write another updated edition of the book soon, as it has been a while!	2003-04-19
US	32236675	R3E5JXZEFPVSFB	006019636X	569099397	Bobbi Brown Teenage Beauty: Everything You Need to Look Pretty, Natural, Sexy & Awesome	Books	4	1	2	N	N	A good make-up guide for teens	\\"Bobbi Brown Teenage Beauty\\" is a great book for girls ages 12-18 who want to look great and feel their best. This book's main focus is natural beauty, and liking you for who you are. For these reasons, this book would be best for teens who don't know how to apply makeup or even adult beginners. A few chapters (such as \\"Prom Beauty\\" and \\"Experimental Beauty\\") do encourage girls to have fun with makeup and trying out new looks and colors.<br />Besides basic beauty, this book also covers topics including hair care, smelling good/bad, preteen beauty (for girls ages 10-12), mother/daughter beauty, skin care, global beauty, and many more. <br />I would recommend this book for girls ages 12-18 who want some simple makeup tips or a confidence booster.	2003-04-19
US	32236675	RPNBW9UD5YZSK	0439314550	636407827	Conversations with J. K. Rowling	Books	2	4	4	N	N	Dissapointing	This book clearly was not what I expected. Though the book is the only \\"authorized\\" biography of Rowling, it's a dissapointing book. For starters, the print is huge and not to mention the book starts on page 11! The biographal part was really the only part where fans wanting to learn about Rowling can find information about her. Plus, is in a question-and-answer format, so it dosn't really tell full-out about Rowling. The rest of the book basically is about the Harry Potter series, and it tells about the four books that have been released so far. (Come on hurry up book 5, I'll be waiting for you on June 21!) Anyway, the book is basically more about Harry Potter than J.K. Rowling. And, like one reviewer said, you could go to the bookstore and read it in less than 20 minutes. Don't waste your money on this one, just wait until a decent biography of Rowling comes out.	2003-04-18
US	32236675	R1J4J7T3WRQLS9	0312272243	650668968	J. K. Rowling: The Wizard Behind Harry Potter	Books	1	3	4	N	N	Nope!	This book is even more disappointing than \\"Conversations With J.K. Rowling\\". This book is filled with inaccuracies about the Harrry Potter series, even though the author claims that he is a devoted fan of Harry Potter and enjoys the series, but that's hard to believe because this book wouldn't have so much wrong info! Plus, this book is unauthorized, and most of the material was from interviews, websites, and books. Don't forget that Rowling did not put 1 word into this biography herself! I thought the part about her life before Harry Potter was released was kind of interesting, but he keeps trying to relate this to Harry Potter. For example, he says how so many names of people Rowling has met have been \\"inspiration\\" for names for the Harry Potter books. That got really annoying! It seems like the author thinks that the only thing in Rowling's life is Harry Potter. But in Rowling's story after the books were released, this book really went downhill. It kept on telling about the Harry Potter books, their summaries, and things like that. All of it is iformation that Harry Potter fans already know, and they most likely want to find out about Rowling, not Harry Potter! I would say this is definitely a bio you should skip. Come on, would you really want to read a book with so many inaccuracies and boring info?! Think about it. Just wait until we get a decent biography of J.K. Rowling	2003-04-18
US	32236675	R2HG9HZBSTWZMT	0670854344	325111581	Herstory: Women Who Changed the World	Books	5	12	12	N	N	All About Women!	Here's one of the few great books that focus on women and their accomplishments only instead of men. This book featured 120 biographal sketches of women such as Cleopatra VII, Queen Victoria, Anna Pavlova, Gabrielle \\"Coco\\" Channel, Harriet Tubmanm, Elizabeth Blackwell, Queen Elizabeth I, and much, much more. These biographies are all wonderful, easy to read, and clearly say what these women have done and accomplished. This is the perfect book for anyone who wants to read about women who have done amazing things. After all, women are capable of accomplishing and doing anything, and this book clearly shows that!	2003-04-16
US	32236675	R8MU6K1L8T2H7	0613079175	378831128	Gymnastics (Turtleback School & Library Binding Edition)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Pretty Good Book	This was an okay book, though it probably could have been better. The book includes a history of the sport, its first superstars, the gymnastics events, judging and scoring, a day in the life of a gymnast, superstars of the 1990s, a chapter about the dangers of the sport, (more on that later) a timeline of important gymnastics dates, and trivia and facts. The book is a little dated and could use some updating, and the chapter that dissapointed me a lot was the chapter about \\"the price of success\\". Dan Gutman fails to mention that these things don't happen in every sport. He also fails to point out that he is talking about the ELITE level of gymnastics. Anyone who has read \\"Little Girls in Pretty Boxes\\" will see that Gutman's source for the ENTIRE chapter was based upon that book! Dan Gutmnan used the same exact information just with different wording! That chapter clearly does not fit in with the rest of the book, which says nothing of the dark side of these sports. If you want to buy this book, I would say save your money and buy a different book- this one isn't the best.	2003-04-13
US	32236675	R1DX18853BEKES	0768910765	534762759	Get Wise!  Mastering Math Skills 1E	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Really Helps Improve Your Math Skills!	I wasn't a very good math student until I got this book. But after reading it and doing the problems, I'm proud to say I've raised my math grade! This book was written in an easy-to-read and understand format, and the &quot;star&quot; character, Chi, throws in a lot of humor into this book. The book starts off with a chapter of basic math skills, than moves on to chapters with things like fractions, percents, algebra, roots and exponents, geometry, and more! This is the best book for anyone who is having trouble with math and needs a book to help them raise their grades!	2003-04-12
US	32236675	RPODT06P8LMF5	0345441311	418019491	Great Books About Things Kids Love: More Than 750 Recommended Books for Children 3 to 14	Books	5	12	13	N	N	An Awesome Resource	This is another great guide of recommended books by Kathleen Odean. In this book, there are over 750 books about the things kids love, and many, many different subjects. Whether you like cats, kings and queens, basketball, math, or magic tricks, there's sure to be a book in here that is right for you. The book is divided into subject categories with categories about the subject. (e.g.: sports, than one of the categories is football.) The back of the book includes a basic reference shelf for home, book-related parties, tips for reading out loud, lists of books in series, and much, much more. This is an invaluable resource and a perfect gift for all kids.	2003-04-09
US	32236675	R91XRXBQKJA81	156565966X	196880366	The Gymnastics Almanac	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Great Book	\\"The Gymnastics Almanac\\" is a well-written and imformative guide to the sport of gymnastics. The book includes a lot of information that all gymnastics fans will find entertaining. The book includes a history of gymnastics, safety tips, famous gymnasts, all the gymnastics events, iformation about scoring, and much, much more. The book has many pictures and sidebars to explain each picture. This is a wonderful book about gymnastics, and I think all gymnasts will find it very interesting.	2003-04-06
US	32236675	R3K2Q8CMCO8ICG	0761316469	918785324	Footnotes: Dancing The World's Best Loved Ballets	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Behind-the-scenes look at the world of ballet	\\"Footnotes\\" is a wonderful book for anyone curious about the ballet world. This book goes through seven ballets, gives information about each one, tells about people who have danced them, gives you an inside look behind the scenes for each ballet, and the book has more than 100 beautiful, full-color photographs. This is an awesome book, and perfect for dancers and ballet fans alike.	2003-04-05
US	32236675	R3C6O1EQWMTHIT	1570719594	531762637	Teen Beauty Secrets: Fresh, Simple & Sassy Tips for Your Perfect Look	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Awesome book!	For all teens out there who want to look and feel their best, this is the only guide they'll need. Full of practical, money-saving advice and tips, \\"Teen Beauty Secrets\\" is the tool to feeling fabolous and looking wonderful. Included in this book are hair-care tips, make-up and cosmetics tips, health care advice, fashion and beauty advice and info, model and celebrity beauty secrets, easy-to-do beauty remedies, treatments, and masks, and SO much more. The tips in this book require little or no money at all, and they are easy to follow and do. Read this book, and you'll be on your way to looking your best and feeling good all the way through your teens and beyond.	2003-04-04
US	32236675	RXGDRKGE52CFM	0823934063	133949023	Competitive Gymnastics for Girls (Sportsgirl)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	What happened to the &quot;competitive&quot;?	Based on the title, I had expected this book to be about competitive gymnastics. And it was, sort of. It dosn't talk about going to competitions or preparing for them. The book dosn't really talk about the competitive side of gymnastics, but includes safety tips, stretching and conditioning exercises, basic moves, and a big glossary with definitions of many words that have to do with gymnastics. I would say this book would be good for beginning gymnasts, or gymnasts who want to learn some safety tips or conditioning exercises.	2003-03-29
US	32236675	R3C4NE0FA2KDBK	080698399X	660459181	Totally Beads (Beadwork Books)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Great for Beginners!	This is a wonderful book for anyone to learn basics about beadwork. The book features many patterns and designs for necklaces, bracelets and anklets, and hair ornaments. These designs are easy to make and follow, and each step is clearly illustrated and has easy-to-follow, step-by-step instructions. Different desings in here includes squares bracelet, flowers and leaves necklace, flowers out of line necklace, circles bracelet, hanging wire star bobby pins, and much more. This book is perfect for beginning beaders who want an instructional book to follow as they progress.	2003-03-29
US	32236675	R1LNFJ99N43V3I	0878339760	815211393	Heart of Gold (Positively for Kids)	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Her Autobiography for a Younger Audience	This was a great biography of Kerri Strug, though it was meant for a younger audience and reading level, it was still very appealing. It included many great pictures, and her biography. I think all Kerri Strug fans will enjoy the book, nevertheless how old they are. Great book, awesome pictures!	2003-03-23
US	32236675	R3856FYKTIIW9D	0439165865	608296775	Sondok: Princess of the Moon and Stars (Royal Diaries)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Very Good Book	\\"Sondok: Princess of the Moon and Stars\\" is about a fourteen-year old princess growing up in Silla, which is now present-day South Korea. She loves astronomy, though girls and women at that time were not expected to study the stars and the sky, and she is willing to prove herself to her father, the ruler of Silla, that she could be just like a son to him since he never had any sons and because women did not rule back then. Instead of writing in a diary, Sondok writes a series of notes to her grandmother describing her private feelings and what is going on in her life. She also writes about her dissapointments about not being able to study astronomy. This was a great Royal Diary, and I think many people wil enjoy it!	2003-03-22
US	32236675	RB1OCA0RHRFV1	0385486073	598438410	Inside Edge: A Revealing Journey into the Secret World of Figure Skating	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Go Inside the Skating World...	Though I'm not a figure skater, this book was very interesting and held my attention. Chritine Brennan takes you on a journey into the secret parts of figure skating. Find out about what makes them want to keep going, why the parents can be so pushy, eating disorders in the sport, figure skating's scoring process, and tons of secret and insider information on the magical world of figure skating. Tons of revealing information and secrets that anyone will find interesting. This book is more like a figure-skating version of &quot;Little Girls in Pretty Boxes&quot;. Must-read for all figure skaters, fans, and coaches.	2003-03-22
US	32236675	R1EYD4LT49M29	0940279517	187036233	I Can Do Gymnastics: Essential Skills for Beginning Gymnasts (Spalding Sports Library)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Good for Beginners	This is the prequel to the \\"I Can Do Gymnastics: Essential Skills for Intermediate Gymnasts\\". It has easier moves then that one, with diagrams and instructions to explain each move. This book also has a chapter about landing safely and includes procedures to practice. It has instructions for most of the apparatus, and it includes the difficulty levels which are A for the easiest, B for medium, and C for hardest. The book is clear and easily understood by beginers. It can also be used by gymnasts who are on the competitive level to improve their basic skills.	2003-03-21
US	32236675	R3G3F52TEE9VXN	0439223504	83106131	The Royal Diaries: Jahanara, Princess Of Princesses: India, 1627 (The Royal Diaries)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Good Book	I'm a big fan of the \\"Royal Diaries\\" series. This one about the Indian princess Jahanara was good, but not as good as some of the other ones. It lacks a plot, though, but it's a diary, not a perfect story after all!<br />Jahanara is a fourteen-year-old princess who has palaces, servants, jewels, pets, and everything her heart desires. She should be happy, right? Wrong! Jahanara is actually a prisoner along with the rest of her family by her evil step grandmother Nur Mahal, who Jahanara refers to as \\"the Snake\\". This book allows you to see what it was like to be royalty but be a prisoner. There were many exiting events in here, and the book had a historical section with pictures and a historical note. This was a pretty good Royal Diary, but there are better ones. I reccomend reading \\"Elizabeth I\\", or \\"Cleopatra VI\\"	2003-03-16
US	32236675	RVT287VXNOXEL	0439042968	650005732	882 1/2 Amazing Answers to Your Questions About the Titanic	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Cool!	I love to read about the Titanic, and this book satisfied my hunger for more books about it. This book provides 882 and a half questions and answers about the Titanic. It was easy to read, well written, and had many photos. This book's questions and answers were very interesting, and I learned a lot from reading this book. This is an awesome book!	2003-03-15
US	32236675	RDW0GM48IJ84F	0761307842	405393022	Best Of The Best/Gymnastics (Women of Sports)	Books	2	0	0	N	N	Good, but too many errors	The problem with this book is that although it features good biographies and very nice pictures of several female gymnasts, it has way too many typos and errors. If careful editing and consideration would have been made before publishing the book, the book would probably be a far more enjoyable read. Anyways, this book includes biographical sketches of female gymnasts such as Shannon Miller, Dominique Moceanu, Vanessa Atler, Svetlana Khorkina, Kristen Maloney, and some others that I can't remember. It also has a chapter with a brief history of gymnastics at the beginning. The biographies include very nice full-color pictures along with a brief list of highlights in each gymnasts's career. Overall, I thought that this book was pretty good, but I would have rated it more if it was more accurate and had less mistakes.	2003-03-13
US	32236675	R2IFIZ5QPQA24	0060281820	682900756	A Dance of Sisters	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A Dance of Sisters is A Terrific Book	This was a great book which shows what you may have to go through to become a top ballet dancer. It's about Pearl and Delia, two sisters who are very close. When they were very young, their mother died and left their dad to raise them. Pearl becomes a strange, eerie person who seems to think life would only be worth living if her mother was alive, so she gets sent to boarding school by her father. Delia, however, misses her sister very much, but has found her spot in the world of ballet dancing. She had been taking classes at the Elanova School of Ballet, a prestigous dance school. Soon after two months of dancing there Delia was picked to be taught by Madame Elanova, the head directer and teacher. Delia enjoys dancing, but it was taking a huge toll on her life. She lost too much weight, she got sick, and every spare moment she had was filled with dancing. She realizes at the end that she cannot put up with ballet and feels like she dosn't need it in her life. Read the book to find out what happens in the end!	2003-03-13
US	32236675	R3JXEBBZQQ7U6M	1560060999	157734435	People in the News - Dominique Moceanu	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Okay	This was basically another biography of Dominique Moceanu, but most of the information was from the other two books about her which are American Champion and Gymnastics Sensation, since the author got most of her sources from those two books. It was pretty good, but not for a die-hard Dominique fan. Something cool about this book was that it told about Dominique's life after the '96 Olympics. The pictures were nice too, but I wish they were in color.  I guess anyone who has never read anything about Dominique would find it interesting.	2003-03-13
US	32236675	R15ALTBOKOQLXH	0964346052	48284506	Shannon Miller: America's Most Decorated Gymnast : A Biography	Books	5	5	5	N	N	One of the Best Biographies I Have Read!	Here's another awesome gymnastics bio from Krista Quiner! This was a terrific, nice and detailed book about Shannon Miller's life. From the minute she was born to the end of the '96 Olympic Games, this book is the ultimate one to learn about Shannon Miller. The book had plenty of great information, and you learn tons and tons of stuff about her. There were also tons of awesome pictures too! This is a must-read for all gymnastics fans.	2003-03-12
US	32236675	R1OFW35FXNFAGH	0140462716	69809868	Gymnastics for girls (A Penguin handbook)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	I Loved It!!!	Though this book was written in the 70's, it still is an awesome book about gymnastics. It focused on gymnastics for girls, and covers all the girl's events: vault, floor, beam, and uneven bars. There are black-and-white photos clearly explaining how to do each move. The instructions are awesome, they are very detailed and easy to understand. Not only that, but this book also showed the correct spotting techniques for almost all of the moves. But the best thing about this book is that it covers tons of moves! If I'm learning a new gymnastics skill, I turn to this book for advice and instrutions. Best book on gymnastics ever!	2003-03-08
US	32236675	R3JKEIPP9GWP7N	0789454297	680982248	Superguides: Ballet	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Very Nice Book	Anyone who loves ballet or is a ballet dancer will just love this book. It provides tons of information, all that will be useful to any ballet dancer. This book was also authored by Darcey Bussel, a professional ballet dancer. I found it to be extremely helpful and useful. Some things this book includes are what to wear, how to tie pointe shoe ribbons, lots of moves, a pointe work section, famous ballets and ballet dancers, and much, much, more! This is an excellent book!	2003-03-07
US	32236675	RVH43XVWV7XTQ	0385729758	4033610	Girls Under Pressure (Girls Quartet)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	This Is A Great Book for All Teen Girls!	\\"Girls Under Pressure\\" is a magnificent book. It's the second book in the \\"Girls\\" trilogy.<br />Ellie was hanging out at the mall one day with her friends Magda and Nadine where they were seeking models for the cover of a teen mag, Spicy. Magda and Nadine eagerly go to see what is going on, and that's when Ellie starts to realize she is fat. So she starts going on a diet, excersising, and even skips meals. Though Ellie has been losing weight, every time she looks at herself she sees a fat girl. But one visit to the hospital to see an anorexic friend changes Ellie's view about everything. Great book!	2003-03-07
US	32236675	R2OOQ7IW3PSMNZ	0806938773	229485741	Ballet For Beginners	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Wow!	I take ballet as a supplement to my gymnastics training. This book is a great help, and has thourougly guided me along the way. All ballet dancers will find this book has a fantastic resource, with tons of helpful info and advice. My favorite part, like always, has to be the section with all the ballet moves. It provides detailed instructions with full-color photographs to explain each move. This book also has advice on what to wear, which ballet school is right for you, and how to sew ribbons on pointe shoes. It also includes a chapter on pointe work skills. All and all, this is a terrific book, and I think all ballet dancers will love it.	2003-03-07
US	32236675	R2G6XX6NQ9H7ZH	0062732919	639039645	The Cheerleader's Guide to Life	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A Great Guide for Cheerleaders	This has been one of the best books I have read about being a cheerleader. This book does more then show you how to become a good cheerleader, it gives advice and info about being a good cheerleader in life. I found this book to be very detailed and very helpful. There are sections about tryouts, jumps, gymnastics, eating healthy, supplies, and much, much more. There was also a chapter about college cheerleading. An added bonus to this book was that it was written by a former professional cheerleader, Cindy Villarreal, so that the info in here is true and helpful.	2003-03-02
US	32236675	R31KLJFX6E420E	0531004465	204345211	Gymnastics: A practical guide for beginners	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Nice Book	I think that a lot of beginning gymnasts will find the book usefull. It is a bit dated, but it still is a nice book. There are exercises for every gymnastics event, including vault, floor exercise, beam, rings, pommel horse, parallel and uneven bars, and so much more! I would say it is best for beginning gymnasts, because there aren't many advanced moves in here. However, it was a great book, and a valuable resource.	2003-02-28
US	32236675	R3C9GSTAWSSZVC	0590763407	842528226	Michelle Kwan: Heart of a Champion : An Autobiography	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Fantastic Book!	I loved reading Michelle Kwan's autobiography. I found it to be very imformative, and I learned even more about this very talented figure skater. It was a great book, and it was so cool to find out about Michelle's first competitions, when she first started skating, her feelings about the sport, and her 1998 Olympic story. Another cool thing about this book was that you could flip the pages and see Michelle Kwan do a triple Lutz. It was cool! I would reccomend this book to any fan of figure skating or Michelle Kwan. Excellent book!	2003-02-23
US	32236675	R3VG54YS8HF8G2	0064472795	287069968	Princess in the Spotlight (The Princess Diaries, Vol. 2)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Another Great Book in the Series!	I thought the second volume of the Princess Diaries was very cool, and very funny. Now that Mia has found out that she is a princess, her life hasn't got anything but more difficult. She has to face many changes- especially with her mom and Mr. Gianni! Mia still has to take princess lessons with Grandmere everyday too, though she really can't stand them. Mia is also doing no better in algebra, though having Micheal (who Mia has a HUGE crush on) tutor her has helped a little bit. On top of all this, Mia starts recieving love letters from someone- but she has no idea who. Surprising and strange ending, and a wonderful book.	2003-02-22
US	32236675	R398HS6XY3DPGG	034540484X	260689567	Great Books for Girls	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Awesome!	I am a very big reader, so I was extremely excited when I was reccomended this book by a teacher. I have enjoyed every book I read that I found in this guide. It is an extremely helpful book, and whenever I go to the library, I take this with me to search for more great books! I also found it very helpful that the book is divided into different subjects, like fiction, biography, sports fiction, comtemporary life fiction, picture books, folktales, and much, much more! This is a terrific addition to any girl's bookshelf. Awesome book!	2003-02-22
US	32236675	R2USQKXNL1VM1B	0064472795	287069968	Princess in the Spotlight (The Princess Diaries, Vol. 2)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Another Great Book in the Series!	I thought the second volume of the Princess Diaries was very cool, and very funny. Now that Mia has found out that she is a princess, her life hasn't got anything but more difficult. She has to face many changes- especially with her mom and Mr. Gianni! Mia still has to take princess lessons with Grandmere everyday too, though she really can't stand them. Mia is also doing no better in algebra, though having Micheal (who Mia has a HUGE crush on) tutor her has helped a little bit. On top of all this, Mia starts recieving love letters from someone- but she has no idea who. Surprising and strange ending, and a wonderful book.	2003-02-22
US	32236675	R384HYJ5R88JP4	0060007192	846890982	Lemony Snicket: The Unauthorized Autobiography	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Great Book	Of course, this book is not really an autobiography of Lemony Snicket, but the book is mainly an installment to the Series of Unfortunate Events. The book's table of contents may trick you into the book, but beware- this book does not inlcude answers to those questions on the Table of Contents such as are the Baudelaire parents really dead? What is V.F.D? Who's Beatrice? These questions and more are not exactly answered, but if you read the book carefully you will find clues that will help you make a good guess on these answers! The book was entertaining and interesting, and perfect for the fans of the Series of Unfortunate Events books.	2003-02-22
US	32236675	RZ18RDSBCLOD3	0064472795	287069968	Princess in the Spotlight (The Princess Diaries, Vol. 2)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Another Great Book in the Series!	I thought the second volume of the Princess Diaries was very cool, and very funny. Now that Mia has found out that she is a princess, her life hasn't got anything but more difficult. She has to face many changes- especially with her mom and Mr. Gianni! Mia still has to take princess lessons with Grandmere everyday too, though she really can't stand them. Mia is also doing no better in algebra, though having Micheal (who Mia has a HUGE crush on) tutor her has helped a little bit. On top of all this, Mia starts recieving love letters from someone- but she has no idea who. Surprising and strange ending, and a wonderful book.	2003-02-22
US	32236675	R1CXH7ODGUXI0D	0380753669	497801819	Maggie Adams Dancer (An Avon Flare Book)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Very Good Book	\\"Maggie Adams, Dancer\\" is one of my favorite books. I've read it over and over. It is such a realistic book, and many people can relate to the issues and situations in here. Maggie Adams' struggle to prove herself a great dancer is very inspiring, and many people can relate to it. I think that this is the perfect book for any ballet fan or dancer, or anyone who likes to read about ballet. It was a terrific book.	2003-02-22
US	32236675	R3LHVSDRLP10BQ	0064472795	287069968	Princess in the Spotlight (The Princess Diaries, Vol. 2)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Another Great Book in the Series!	I thought the second volume of the Princess Diaries was very cool, and very funny. Now that Mia has found out that she is a princess, her life hasn't got anything but more difficult. She has to face many changes- especially with her mom and Mr. Gianni! Mia still has to take princess lessons with Grandmere everyday too, though she really can't stand them. Mia is also doing no better in algebra, though having Micheal (who Mia has a HUGE crush on) tutor her has helped a little bit. On top of all this, Mia starts recieving love letters from someone- but she has no idea who. Surprising and strange ending, and a wonderful book.	2003-02-22
US	32236675	R180Z2P80CS881	0152018069	167423091	Rachel's Journal: The Story of a Pioneer Girl	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Loved this Book!	Just like Marissa Moss' \\"Amelia\\" books, this was a hand-written, journal-style book, with lots of pictures. It is the journal of ten-year-old Rachel, who travels with her family of pioneers from Illinois to California in search of a better place to live. In her journal, she records the trip and there are many details! It has humor thrown in, great pictures, and a nice journal format. I've enjoyed reading this book, and I can't wait to read all of Marissa Moss' other historical journals.	2003-02-22
US	32236675	RPBCJ9X7GREED	0060294671	953660472	Princess in Love (The Princess Diaries, Vol. 3)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Best Book in Series So Far!	I really like to read the Princess Diaries books, and they are one of my favorite series. Book three is one of the best books in the series so far.<br />Despite the fact that she is a princess, Mia is still trying to be a normal teenager, but she finds it hard when there is always someone who wants to interview her, reporters following her everywhere she goes, people who only like her becuase she is a princess, and she STILL has to take princess lessons with Grandmere every day after school. And, to make matters worse, Mia has a boyfriend. Thrilling, right? Sure, but the problem is, MIA DOSN'T LIKE HIM BACK!!! She is still totally in love with Micheal, her best friend Lily's older brother. This was just another fantastic book in the series! And the ending was VERY surprising- something you'd never expect to happen! I eagerly (and impatiently) await the release of the fourth book, Princess in Waiting\\".	2003-02-22
US	32236675	R2SW8TH9934XYI	0791063127	702242811	Triumph of the Imagination: The Story of Writer J. K. Rowling (Overcoming Adversity)	Books	2	4	5	N	N	Not Too Informative...	I feel as though this book could have given more information about JK Rowling. Only about two of the chapters were about her life in general, the rest of the book was basically about the Harry Potter series and the fame the books are reciving. These other chapters really are of no use to people who want to learn about Rowling's life, it's basically about her writing. Maybe someone who hasn't read the Harry Potter books would find the entire book interesting. If you're a devoted fan, just skip it.	2003-02-21
US	32236675	R20HH7EOWWIH4H	0761326227	722752888	Michelle Kwan: Quest For Gold	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Great Read	This was the first biography I've read about Michelle Kwan. Though I'm not a figure skater, her confidence and determination have inspired me to succeed in gymnastics. It was a nice biography, with lots of pictures and nice information. I only have several complaints. First, it was a little too short in my opinion, since you mostly learn about the outlines of her life, not full details. For details I would suggest reading \\"Heart of A Champion\\", Michelle's autobiography. Second, it would have been nice if the book was longer, like I said it needs more details. Not realy for older readers, but great for anyone who wants to learn about Michelle Kwan	2003-02-20
US	32236675	RHRJZ9QKY9KLP	1586631365	413500982	The Ultimate Britney Spears Quiz Book	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Awesome Book!	Anyone who thinks they know everything about Britney Spears needs to read this book! You'll find out things you never knew about her! These quizzes are awesome, I learned so much about Britney. There were a ton of fantastic pictures too! Any Britney Spears fan will love this book!	2003-02-19
US	32236675	RQG3HYNXDUHPY	1584151269	605228310	Aaron Carter (Real-Life Reader Biography)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Cute Book	A nice biography on Aaron Carter that tells you his life story. Easy to read, had pictures, and was truthful. It was pretty good. I would recommend it to a new Aaron Carter fan or someone who dosn't know much about him. If you're a big Aaron Carter fan, read the book his mom wrote	2003-02-19
US	32236675	R1LJN96CMP7PNM	0964346001	194966357	Kim Zmeskal: Determination to Win : A Biography	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Great Biography!	This is the perfect book for all Kim Zmeskal or gymnastics fans. Just like all of Krista Quiner's other gymnastics biographies, this one was excellent! You learn so much about Kim: how she got started in gymnastics, her early competitions: her feelings about Bela Karolyi, and so much more! It allows you to see the hard work and sacrifices someone has to make to succeed in elite gymnastics. The book lets you watch Kim grow from an aspiring gymnast to a role model to many. Great job on writing another fantastic biography, Krista Quiner!	2003-02-18
US	32236675	R2ERBI9X16APKG	0385729537	603717857	A Mother's Gift	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Terrfic Story!	I really am a big fan of Britney Spears, so I decided to read \\"A Mother's Gift\\". It's an amazing story, and I think Britney and Lynne did a great job of writing it.<br />Holly is a teenge girl living in the small town of Biscay, Mississippi. Everyone there knows she has an amazing talent, which is singing. Holly longs to go to the Haverty School of Music and Performing Arts, but she is convinced she'll never make it. One day, her boyfriend secretly sends a tape of Holly singing to Haverty. Several weeks later, Holly got a letter asking for her to audition there. She was very excited! After her audition, Holly got another letter accepting her to the school! Being accepted has its ups and downs, but the biggest down was that Holly would have to leave her mother Wanda, who Holly loved dearly and was very close with. At first she feels out of place at Haverty, because most of the students there are rich and had the latest clothes and items. She makes friends with her roomate, but finds it hard to make friends with others. And Wanda misses her daughter so much, she has a secret she wants to reaveal- but it could destroy the bond between her and Holly forever. The ending was surprising- if you want to know what it is, read the book!<br />Overall, I think Britney and her mother have wrote a fantastic book. I look forward to the other books they will write together!	2003-02-18
US	32236675	R1U8Z4X7HJUM4P	0822534533	222098838	Fundamental Gymnastics (Fundamental Sports)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Nice Book for all Gymnasts	I thought this was a nice gymnastics book. It had a history of gymnastics, a section with skills, a competitive section, and an advanced section. The history part was interesting. I learned stuff about gymnastics I never knew about before! I also thought the part about basic gymnastics skills was nice too, because there were color photos and a paragraph about how to perform the skill. The part about competitive gymnastics is perfect for anyone who is thinking about or is a competitive gymnast. Last, there was an advanced section at the end, with difficult and spectacular moves. This is the perfect resource for all gymnasts!	2003-02-18
US	32236675	R3A4HV2I55XD51	0446675830	392728898	Britney Spears: Stylin'	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Awesome Book!	If you want to learn more about Britney Spears, this is a great book to read. The author did a great job writing about Britney, and I thought the parts about Britney's style were really cool. It's a biography, starting from her birth all the way to the release of Baby One More Time. I just loved the pictures, they were all awesome. You learn a lot about Britney! This book is a must for all Britney Spears fans!	2003-02-18
US	32236675	R3CT9SEZTT5MV1	0060294698	9669590	All-American Girl	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Top Ten Reasons why this book ROCKS!	10. The characters were fantastic<BR>9.  I loved the top ten lists in the book!<BR>8.  I could relate to the main character, Sam<BR>7.  It made me proud to be an American<BR>6.  The plot was cool!<BR>5.  It was fun to read<BR>4.  You feel like you are right next to Sam as she tells you this story<BR>3.  Sam is a No Doubt fan, just like me!!<BR>2.  It has a surprising ending<BR>1.  The book gives an important message to teens	2003-02-17
US	32236675	R2B6E4BGDD9JXZ	0940279541	471390988	I Can Do Gymnastics	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Great for Learning Basic Gymnastics Skills!!	This was a terrific book! It explains all the gymnastics moves you have to know before you reach competitive Level 5. It was very useful, and helps improve your gymnastics skills. Each skill is divided into a category, (A for least difficult and C for most difficult) and has a diagram with instructions for the skills under it. There's a check list for when you have learned how to do the skill, too. I particulary liked the advanced section and the chapter about landing safely, which will be of great use to all gymnasts. This is the perfect book to guide you as you climb up the gymnastics ladder of skills!	2003-02-16
US	32236675	R1K0SJQAE8IY0G	0789454300	762811101	Superguides: Gymnastics	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Pretty Good	I think this is a nice book about gymnastics, but like one reviewer said, it's a little too short. It starts off with a forward by Shannon Miller, a history of gymnastics, what to wear to class, and shows a typical gym. The section with the skills was pretty good, but there weren't many in here. The instructions were nice and detailed, though, and I liked the rythmic gymnastics and sports acrobatics part. It's great for people who want to learn about the sport or beginning gymnasts.	2003-02-16
US	32236675	R1QR7T9J96H2JY	0964346036	160678854	Dominique Moceanu: A Gymnastics Sensation	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Amazing Biography!	This book is perfect for any fan of Dominique Moceanu. You learn so much about her, starting from her birth all the way up to the 1996 Olympics. This was a very vivid and detailed biography. I really thought it was cool to read about the gymnastics school she used to train at before she went to Karolyi's. It tells about all her early compititions and experiences. It felt like I really knew Dominique Moceanu! I learned so much from this book, and like Krista Quiner's other gymnastics biographys, this was a great one!	2003-02-15
US	32236675	R121IUFSD4CEUC	0385729332	122662979	Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The Sisterhood Of The Traveling Pants ROCKS!!	Another one of the best books I have laid my eyes on. This is a terrific book, and many teens will be able to relate to this. It is very well-written and fun to read.<br />When Carmen finds a pair of old jeans at the thrift shop, she buys them for really no reason, but mostly because of the three dollar price. One day when her friends Lena, Tibby, and Bridget are over, Tibby spots the pants and tries them on. They fit her perfectly, and then Bridget, Lena, and Carmen try them on and they find that they fit perfectly. They decide that each girl will have the pants for at least a week during summer vacation and they come up with a set of rules to govern the use of the pants. Lena was the first to have them, then Tibby, then Bridget, and then Carmen. Lena goes off to Greece with her sister where she meets her relative Kostos, a boy she really dosn't like at first. Tibby stays at home, working at Wallmans with nothing interesting really going on untill one day she meets Bailey, a twelve-year old girl. Bridget is off to soccer camp in Baja California, where she falls in love with the coach who is about six years older then her. And Carmen goes to visit her dad, only to find that he has a whole new family that he had never told her about before. The story follows the vacations of the girls while they have the pants. I liked the ending.<br />This was a fantastic book. Ann Brashares' story idea was creative and original. I am eagerly anticipating the next book, The Summer of The Sisterhood, to come out.	2003-02-13
US	32236675	R2ZGRR0F54XLTO	0451409701	705445211	Britney: Every Step of the Way: A Friend's Personal Scrapbook	Books	5	2	2	N	N	WOW!!	I must say, I am impressed. This was an AWESOME book, from the first page to the last! OMG, these are some of the BEST pics of Britney ever! It was written by her friend, Felicia Culotta, who is Britney's personal chaperone who travels with her. These pictures all are private and have never been seen before! It is so cool, you feel like you personally know Britney from reading this super-cool book. Great job, Felicia, on a book well written!	2003-02-13
US	32236675	RFEGT4N8T0M2X	1842224212	614737184	Britney Spears	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Good, Could Have Been Better!	This was an ok book about Britney. It had cool pics, and I liked the quizzes. It really is just another biography of Brit. It starts from when she was first born, all the way to the release of Oops...I Did It Again. I really didn't find the biography stuff that interesting since I knew most of it, and there were some errors. For example, the author says Britney's natural hair color is blond. That's not true. Her natural (underline) hair color is BROWN! Look at some pics of Britney as a kid and you'll see! Well, overall this was a good book, but for a really good Britney Spears book read Heart to Heart, the book she wrote with her mother.	2003-02-13
US	32236675	R37RZ0SR975WON	0553097768	820552425	Winning Every Day	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Wonderful Book!	\\"Winning Every Day\\" is a wonderful, well-written book. This book combines an autobiography of Shannon Miller with lessons and motivators that will help you do better in gymnastics and will make your life happier and healthier. From reading this book, you really feel like you know Shannon Miller. It's also filled with tons of amazing pictures of Shannon, family members, gymnasts, and much more. Some things this book covers include eating healthy-this chapter had wonderful recipies that Shannon enjoys herself, fear and pain, stress and what to do about it, acheiving dreams in and out of gymnastics, setting goals, competition, faith, and much more. Shannon also shares many secrets that explain how she got to the top in gymnastics and how she was able to stay successful in the sport for so long. A wonderful book for all gymnasts, this book will motivate you and help you become a better gymnast.	2003-02-12
US	32236675	R3RJJ8ZS0OFH79	0060094176	839916662	Soul Survivors: The Official Autobiography of Destiny's Child	Books	4	1	2	N	N	It's Pretty Good	I enjoy Destiny's Child, and I thought it would be interesting ot read about them. It was a good book mostly, and you learn a lot about these three members, like their childhood, early life, school years, how they joined Destiny's Child, and more. What was strange to me was the title of this book. I really am not sure that these three rich woman who are famous all around the world are really &quot;soul survivors&quot;. What did they survive? Sure, they lost three group members but that's about it. Another thing that bothered me was that the book was mostly Beyonce this, Beyonce that. She did most of the writing, or should I say talking because they just told their story to James Patrick Herman, who actually wrote it. Also, it seems like the book is mainly about her. So what, she writes their songs and is their (Destiny's Child) lead singer. It dosn't mean she should always get all of the attention! Overall, the book is great, but I think big Destiny's Child fans would like it the most.	2003-02-09
US	32236675	RQT41PCHTY2II	0761527559	256151487	Best Books for Kids Who (Think They) Hate to Read: 125 Books That Will Turn Any Child into a Lifelong Reader	Books	5	81	83	N	N	I Don't Hate to Read, But this Book Rocks!!	When I first saw this book, I just knew I would love it. I am a HUGE reader, and there's no way I hate to read. But I liked this book anyway. You will find 125 books in here, which will appeal to reluctant readers. I've read several of the books featured in this book, and I've thoroughly enjoyed every single one of them. There are several parts to the book: books for 5-8 years old, books for 7-10 years old, books for 8-12 years old, and books for ages 10 and up. Each book featured has a picture, an exerpt from the book, a summery of the book, reasons why the book would appeal to reluctant readers, who might like it, types of illustrations, and so much more. There are even more reccomended books in the back. This is truly a fantastic resource, whethere you hate to read or not.	2003-02-09
US	32236675	R13AGZL8MALY0B	0140257322	824728025	Let's Hear It for the Girls: 375 Great Books for Readers 2-14	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Pretty Good Book	This was another nice listing of recommended books. There were many books to choose from, such as Anne of Green Gables, The True Confessions of Charlotte Doyle, Missing May, and so much more! There are summaries for each book, along with the number of pages, the author, year it was published, and the genre or subject. My only complaint is that the book does not divide the book into specific categories. For example, there will be a chapter called \\"Moving On: Books for Ages 10 and Up\\", but it's not divided into historical fiction, biography, sports, or another subject. It would be easier to find books that way! Otherwise, it was a fantastic book!	2003-02-09
US	32236675	RDRVGV05EI47	0671612107	547223013	The Official Cheerleader's Handbook	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Best Book on Cheerleading!!	What a great book! I'm a cheerleader and a gymnast, and I've found it to be a fantastic resource! This book is perfect for all levels of cheerleading, whether you're a Pop Warner cheerleader or a Varsity cheerleader. It has tons of hints, tips, and instructions. There are thousands of photos. In here, there are jumps, cheers, chants, gymnastics, routines, stunts, pyramids, tryout tips, and sooo much more! This book has helped me become a much better cheerleader and I've appreciated everything I learned from it. This book deserves three cheers!!	2003-02-09
US	32236675	R3O8F2J218V8UX	0613122259	158869999	Ultimate Cheerleading	Books	3	0	0	N	N	It was O.K.	I found this book at my local public library. Since I do cheerleading, I thought it would be a valuable resource, and it sort of was. It was a little too short, and I knew most of the moves and stunts in here anyway. It did have color photos and stuff, but it was only about fifty-eight pages. I wish it was longer. I guess it's mostly for beginners or people who want to learn about cheerleading or are thinking of trying out, because there is a section about it in here. I would recommend this book to beginning cheerleaders or for people who want to find out more about this cheerleading.	2003-02-09
US	32236675	R37XGMQVBT9T31	0553097741	29418080	The Magnificent Seven: The Authorized Story of American Gold	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A Truly Fascinating Book	After the Magnifecent Seven's wonderful performance at the '96 Olympic Games, I decided to read this book to find out more about these talented young women. I thought it was terrific! There are biographies of each of the seven members along with really cool pictures. This book was awesome. These seven are really magnificint and it shows!	2003-02-09
US	32236675	R3OTP9WRJIQ06I	0836269446	40733595	Landing on My Feet: A Diary of Dreams	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Amazing Book!!	I really enjoyed reading Kerri Strug's autobiography. Her legendery vault, the Yurchenko with a one-and-a-half twist, helped the USA 1996 Olympic Team win a gold medal! I really thought this was a terrific book. Kerri talks about her triumphs, struggles, victories, experiences and so much more. She tells her complete story, starting from baby years, all the way up untill after the 1996 Olympic Games. Her story is a great inspiration to all gymnasts. If you enjoy gymnastics or are a fan of Kerri Strug, then this book is a must-read!	2003-02-09
US	32236675	R38EU7065UZJEX	0131608045	91882708	Complete Gymnastics Handbook	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Nice Book, but a Little Weird	I checked this out-of-print book out of the library, and I found it too be mostly a coaching guide, but it was pretty cool. There are detailed instructions for many gymnastics moves on all the apparatus. I especially liked in the directions how there were various errors and ways to fix them. I have a better backward roll to handstand, more powerful round-off, and a fantastic front handspring, thanks to this book. My only complaint is the pictures showing the moves are really just 3D stick figures doing gymnastics. (I'm not kidding!) For example, they have no faces, they have sticks for arms and legs, and the apparatus was weirdly drawn too. I mean, a slanted line for a springboard, a little line for bars, two circles for rings, and three lines for a balance beam. Aside from the simple diagrams, it was a great book.	2003-02-02
US	32236675	R2V1QB66NTOPYR	0380814021	287069968	The Princess Diaries	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Must-Read Book!	This was one of the best books I've laid my eyes on! It's about Mia, a normal, ordinary teenage girl (or so she thought!) living in Manhatten. (I know I spelled it wrong!) One day her father tells her that he is the prince of Genovia, a small European country, and Mia is a princess. Mia is shocked to learn this, and the rest of the story is basically about her experiences as a princess. It was funny, heartwarming, and interesting at the same time. I thought it was much better and more detailed then the movie. Great book!	2003-02-02
US	32236675	RURO2CKCOHX8A	0072119691	311247159	Word 2000: The Complete Reference	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Learned a Lot from this Book!	I use Microsoft Word 2000 for nearly everything that needs to be typed, so I was really glad when I got this book. I learned a ton of things, like how to insert a boarder around pages, how to create special affects with WordArt,(WordArt allows you to create cool bubble letters, slanted text, and stuff like that.) how to double space a paragraph, even how to change the Office Assistant, and so much more! This is a fantastic resource, with even some humor thrown in. Very complete, very good.	2003-02-02
US	32236675	R3I9TPU4FQMALL	0446676829	343731133	Little Girls in Pretty Boxes: The Making and Breaking of Elite Gymnasts and Figure Skaters	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Good Book	Joan Ryan's \\"Little Girls in Pretty Boxes\\" goes behind the scenes to describe the horrors and dangers of gymnastics and figure skating. More than half of the book was focused on gymnastics, but only several chapters were about figure skating. The book gave many different examples to back up its information, such as Julissa Gomez's vaulting accident that caused her to be paralyzed and die later, Christy Henrich's obsession to be thin so she starved herself to death, Kim Kelly's voting off the 1992 Olympic Team at the second \\"trial\\", and the Nancy Kerrigan/Tonya Harding saga. The book is mainly about the gymnasts and figure skaters who have suffered at the elite level, for reasons such as injuries, eating disorders, pressure to win, politics and money, pushy parents, and abusive coaches. Their were some exagerrations and some repetition, however. Ryan mentioned that Kathy Johnson didn't begin menstruating until she retired from gymnastics at age 25 three times, and that Kristie Phillips left gymnastics unhappy and bulimic at age 16 at least two times. That was really the only part of the book that annoyed me. In 2000, an updated edition of the book was published, with new information about gymnastics and a new epilogue describing how the lives of the people described in the book had turned out. This book is a good book to read if you want to know what happens at the elite levels of gymnastics and figure skating.	2003-02-02
US	32236675	R22TU31AIN5XT4	1552094162	891972446	The Gymnastics Book: The Young Performer's Guide to Gymnastics	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Great For Beginners	A wonderful book for those who want to or have just started gymnastics, this book will guide you and makes a great introduction to gymnastics. The book was written Elfi Schlegal, a former Olympian, and has many full-color photographs of famous gymnasts and young gymnasts performing basic gymnastics skills. Some things this book talks about are getting started, finding a gymnastics club, what to look for in a coach, eating healthy, conditioning and warm-up excercises, different gymnastics skills, competitive gymnastics, and much more. Many tips and quotes from famous gymnasts are also in this book, too. This book is a wonderful choice for all beginning gymnasts, and a very wise purchase.	2003-02-02
US	32236675	R2PYTZCE8Y8JFY	037582233X	411811908	Stargirl	Books	2	0	1	N	N	Not Really What I Expected.	Based on what people who had read it told me, I had expected Stargirl to be a story about a new girl who has trouble fitting in and finds ways too fit in. It sort of was like that. But it was told in the first person by a boy named Leo. Stargirl was an interesting character, I mean, how many girls play a ukelele in the school cafeteria or decorate their school desk with a tablecloth and flowers? Not to mention she has a pet rat that comes to school with her. It kind of turned out to be a love story, not what expected at all. I really didn't like the book, but remember, this is my opinion only!	2003-02-02
