US	32236382	R1QWXI4P3618TQ	0973080639	251850657	The Gold Standard MCAT	Books	4	15	16	N	N	Great full length exams...okay review of material.	It's easy to be frustrated by the sheer amount of practice material available for the MCAT. You have Princeton Review, Kaplan, Examkrackers, Berkeley Review, Columbia Review etc. You type in MCAT on Amzon search, you will be bombarded with thousands of materials. And to maker matters worse you have people posting fake reviews from the publisher or the manufacturer. Just look at a couple of the very enthusiastic reviews and you'll see what I mean. All these companies profess that their material is the one that will help you get a competitive score but sadly very few companies deliver the goods. That said, I picked up the Gold Standard based on word of mouth. Although the book and the author is reputable, you will not hear about this book as much.    I picked up this book simply for its three full length exams on the back. And unlike certain full lengths that are much harder or easier than the actual MCAT or cover material not tested on the MCAT, these tests are very close to the passages/materials on the April 2005 MCAT, especially the verbal exam.     I looked at the review portion of the book and it was okay. It wasn't very good but not very bad either. My suggestion would be for buyer's of this book to use it solely for the practice exam.     5 stars for the full length tests.  3 stars for the review.  4 stars overall.	2005-08-02
US	32236382	R22J1WADI4MWSD	0785112243	168885406	Supreme Power Vol. 1: Contact	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Buy this book....	This trade collects the first six issues. I have never been a big Marvel fan but for some unknown reason, I picked up this volume and since then I have been hooked.<br /><br />The basic plot is that the author, J. Michael Straczynski (JMS) taken familiar heroes and their origins and totally twists them around to fit in the real world and in the process create something truly innovative. The main character in Mark Milton aka Hyperion who has crashed landed on Earth and have been found by a couple, that's Superman's origin, right? Yes but the similarities end there. Hyperion is quickly taken into custody by the US Military who sees his potential as the world's most effective weapon.  The military hires agents to pose as Hyperion's parents, they monitor all his movements and raises him to be the perfect American citizen. JMS really fleshes out the armies intentions and methods, for example, Mark gets a dog for his birthday. The dog is chosen after searching through 47 breeds and then is named \\"Spot\\" in order to give it simplicity. Implicit throughout the story, you get a sense of impending doom that this charade is not going to last. We also see how the different presidents deal with Hyperion during his 20 years of surrogation under the military, starting with Carter, followed by Bush Sr. and Clinton.<br /><br />There are other chracters, i.e. Stanley Stewart aka The Blur, he is gifted with speed, then there is Amphibian whose mother committed suicide when she was born and her father went insane. Next you have Nighthawk who saw his parents gunned down by Red necks and in turn became a rascist superhero. And finally you have Doctor Spectrum. Doctor Spectrum is the perfect  soldier, who follows any and all orders. Doc Spectrum becomes empowered by the energy crystal from Hyperion's ship and can use the power to give his thought tangibility. He is the first line of defense against Hyperion.<br /><br />Despite the long review, there are lots of more stuff that JMS managed to pack into the story. The plot is dense and over six issues, JMS only begins characterizing the characters in the story. This is not for readers who want quick action with flash and bangs. This is a book best read slowly and enjoyed for the dialogues and characterizations. JMS is creating his little universe here and so far he has done a hell of a job.<br /><br />Ever since The Watchmen came out people have been searching for the next big Watchmen type story. I am gonna tell you that this book is as close as it has gotten to Watchmen status in a long time.  If you can only read or buy one comics this year, buy this one. I guarantee that you will not be disappointed.<br /><br />One word of advice, this is from the MAX line from Marvel and therefore contains colorful language and nudity so, put the kids to bed for this one.managed to pack into the story. The plot is dense and over six issues, JMS only begins characterizing the characters in the story. This is not for readers who want quick action with flash and bangs. This is a book best read slowly and enjoyed for the dialogues and characterizations. JMS is creating his little universe here and so far he has done a hell of a job.  <br /> <br />Ever since The Watchmen came out people have been searching for the next big Watchmen type story. I am gonna tell you that this book is as close as it has gotten to Watchmen status in a long time.  If you can only read or buy one comics this year, buy this one. I guarantee that you will not be disappointed.  <br /> <br />One word of advice, this is from the MAX line from Marvel and therefore contains colorful language and nudity so, put the kids to bed for this one.	2005-05-30
US	32236382	R17WOR20D5QVCV	1563899493	607031455	Superman: Critical Condition (Superman (Graphic Novels))	Books	3	1	1	N	N	4 stars for the first half of the book only...	This book picks up on the heels of Superman 'Till Do Us Apart TPB. Lois is missing, Superman is ill and the villains are coming out of the woodwork. The first story focuses on Toyman and didn't work for me. The next few stories features Superman getting roughed up by Lex Luthor's henchwomen and the arrival of Batman. This is the high point of the book...the interaction with the Man of Steel and the Dark Knight. I don't get why reviewers made such a fuss about Batman referring to Lois \\"the subject\\". If you have picked up any Bat-books within the last few months or since 2003, you know that Batman puts up a tough exterior but he cares for his team-mates. I don't want to spoil the ending but this is clearly shown during Batman's own narration. And as for how Superman get infected with Kryptonite...um...this is Book-4...that means there had to have been a Book 1-3 and those might contain clues about how he might have been infected.   The latter part of the book is lackluster and is typical of what  is to be expected of the recent Superman books. I understand that he is a tough character to write but come on. All in all, 4 starts for the first part and 2 for the latter...average of 3 stars.	2005-05-04
US	32236382	R1FZ2FXN082WDZ	1401203418	106733324	Batman: War Drums (Prelude to War Games)	Books	3	13	15	N	N	15 minutes of Fame for the New Robin....	This collection collects Detective Comics #790-796 and Robin #126-128 and is written by Anderson Gabrych and Bill Willingham (Fables) and illustrated by Pete Woods and Damion Scott. The first story is a stand-alone and deals with Batman on the eve of Jason Todd's (ex-Robin) birthday. The next two stories deals with how a female Rap star has her sister missing and injured by a rival record lable and winds up in the care of Batman's long-time friend Dr. Leslie Tompkins. Leslie is kidnapped along with the injured girl and Batman is hell-bent on finding them. And to make matters worse, the rival gang is equipped with hardware courtesy of Mr. Freeze (i.e. ice bullets that melt). The story basically re-examines the relationship between Bruce Wayne and Dr. Tompkins. The next two stories are by far the worst in this collection and features Tarantula (a character who I and a lot of Batman and Nightwing fans abhor). Apparently a Hispanic legend dealing with filth and grabage (literally) has come to life. Like I said this was by far the worst story in the collection. <br /> <br />Once you have dragged past or skipped over the former stories, the latter portion of the collection follows Stephanie Brown aka Spoiler and now the new Robin in her training to become Robin. We basically get a glimpse in her 15 minutes of fame as Robin. The stories are pretty-well written and is told from Stephanie's POV. We also get a look at Tim Drake's (ex-Robin) life as a civilian. But before he can get too comfortable, Robin's nemesis Johnny Warlock (see Robin: Unmasked) has hired a skilled killer to hunt down teenage boys at home matching Robin's physical description. It is up to Batman and the new Robin to stop the killer before she reaches Tim Drake. In between all this we get a stand-alone story featuring Zsasz. Zsasz in my opinion is a severly underestimated character. He is the Hannibal Lecter in Batman's Universe. He slits the throat of his victims and then tallies them up by cutting himself. This story is the best in this collection and the writer does a very good job of conveying Zsasz's threat and power.  <br /> <br />I just have a single point to state here...the writer Anderson Gabyrch has this tendency to portray all African American characters as MTV marketed Rap Stars. Read the second story and you'll get my point. He is a new-comer and he has good potential (see the Zsasz story) but here his work suffers terribly because of the Tarantula story. Bill Willingham also writes well, his work shows Batman a little more light-hearted but still not bad.  <br /> <br />This collection mainly sets the premises for the atrocious Batman War Games crossover (see my review). All in all the stories are good...not great but good. Recommended for the Batman completists.   <br />	2005-03-30
US	32236382	R1CUBF5LNEVMMS	1563895765	165558052	Batman: War on Crime	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Visually stunning....	This is one of the four large formatted books written by Paul Dini (Batman The Animated Series, Mad Love) and illustrated by Alex Ross (Kingdom Come, Marvels, Uncle Sam). The premise of the story is simple...it is basically a day/night in the life of Bruce Wayne/Batman. However, just because it is a simple premise does not  mean that it is not enjoyable. The story basically revolves around a boy whose parents are killed in a robbery. This case interests the Dark Knight because it has intimate parallels with his life. But the similarities end there because unlike Bruce Wayne, the boy has no financial endowment left by his parents and soon turn to crime. This leads the Batman to question his own life and motivation as to whether he would not do the same thing if he had the financial backings stripped away as well. A pretty standard premise but with Paul Dini's writing style, it is quite enjoyable.  <br /> <br />Now for the art....stunning. There is no other way to describe it. This is how Batman would look in real life. The costume stays true to the comics and is a far departure from the rubber and leather outfits shown in the movies. Also, forget the overly muscled, vein popping, juiced up characters usually portrayed       in comics. This is how Batman should and would look. Alex Ross is truly a master of his craft and this book is mainly a showcase for his talent.  <br /> <br />Overall, I would recommend this book to anyone. It is recommended for adults and children (there are no graphic violence as prevalent in some comics). You do not have to be familiar with any of Batman's history or complicated continuity in order to enjoy this book. Highly recommended.	2005-03-12
US	32236382	RFB706BV0X6B4	1401203477	269421374	Superman/Batman Vol. 2 - Supergirl (Superman/Batman: Supergirl)	Books	4	30	34	N	N	Not one of Loeb's best works...	This story arc is written by fan-favorite Jeph Loeb and the art is provided by Michael Turner. This arc introduces a new Supergirl in the DC Universe. The premise is that a giant meteor rock has landed in Gotham Bay and contains a girl with no memories and no trace of origin. The only thing that is concrete about her is that she is from Krypton adn her name is Kara. There is also a hint that she is from the House of El and is Superman's cousin. Superman is thrilled to have a living relative from Krypton whereas Batman is suspicious of her. As she is adjusting to life on Earth, she is forcefully removed from Batman and Superman's custody by Wonder Woman. And later on, she is kidnapped from Paradise Island by Darkseid. Thst is it for the basic premise. <br /> <br />This is not one of Jeph Loeb's best works. It is pretty to look at (It's Michael Turner, people) and there are some great moments in the story but other than that it is pretty generic. I have read all of Loeb's works for both Marvel and DC and feel that he is a writer of great caliber. Here, however he writes a lot of events and characters that are just there for shock value. For example, Kara is out in the town with Superman and Batman and all of a sudden Wonder Woman shows up and attempts to kidnap her...my question is why? These three are JLA members and good friends. There is no reason for Wonder Woman to try and Kidnap Kara other than the fact that in the final page, you see Batman and Superman gasping saying \\" gasp...It's You!!!\\"  Also, Darkseid is disposed of in a very generic and in a less than glamorous manner. However, there are good moments in the story, i.e. Batman taking on Darkseid...that's right Batman vs. Darkseid. But overall it's a pretty generic story. <br /> <br />Overall, it's not a great story but it's an okay story...it won't rank up there with Loeb's earlier works such as Batman The Long Halloween or Batman Dark Victory but it's soilid enough to stand on its own. All in all a 3.5 forthe story alone and a 4 for the       art.	2005-03-09
US	32236382	R2YLHDBWQAGK0F	1401204295	204945401	Batman: War Games, Act One - Outbreak	Books	3	25	35	N	N	It's summer and time for a cross-over that no one wants...	This book collects the first act of an unecessarily lengthy crossover. This volume collects the following:  BATMAN: THE 12-CENT ADVENTURE  DETECTIVE COMICS #797  BATMAN #631  BATMAN: LEGENDS OF THE DARK KNIGHT #182  NIGHTWING #96   BATMAN: GOTHAM KNIGHTS #56  ROBIN #129   BATGIRL #55   CATWOMAN #34    The basic premise in this story is that ex-Robin and now an outcast, Spoiler aka Stephanie Brown witnesses a covergence of the entire mob families of Gotham City. She eavesdrop on this meeting despite Batman's specific instructions. A gun fire erupts and all hell breaks loose as the mob families vow revenge on each other and fight to be the top boss while the innocents are caught in the brushfire. Now, it is up to Batman, Nightwing, Robin, Batgirl, Catwoman, Huntress, Spolier and the rest of the Bat-family to put the mob fires out before Gotham is engulfed.     The premise being set, I'll get to the good parts about this volume first. You won't see it in this act but if you are patient enough (and rich enough) to follow this to the last act, you will see the death of character from the abovementioned bat-family. I am not a foaming and complaining fanboy but this character should never have been written into the Bat-family. That's the ultimate payoff from War Games.    Now, the bad part of this volume. I personally am not a fan of crossovers...you have a lot of different writers and artists focusing on their part of the story and the result is that the entire story as a whole suffers. It basically becomes one giant mess, ie. Superman: Our Worlds at War. Now, I am not saying that the writers of this volume is not talented...some of these writers are veterans, i.e. Ed Brubaker. Mr. Brubaker writes one of the best monthly on the market, Gotham Central but his work suffers here as a whole due to the constant jumping around from one author to another. Other writers in this volume are Andersen Gabrych, Devin Grayson, Dylan Horrocks, A.J. Lieberman, and Bill Willingham. Most of these guys are relative new-comers save for Devin Grayson.     All in all, this book goes the way of most summer cross-overs, fast and forgotten. At the end the only change is the death of a Bat-family character and Batman's relationship with the GCPD changes. But you can be rest assured that the next writer to pick up the mess from this will write as if none of this ever happened. Recommended if you have the patience and money.	2005-02-18
US	32236382	R36M1J2DHGUSCU	1563898640	863651073	Green Lantern: Legacy: The Last Will and Testament of Hal Jordan	Books	5	10	11	N	Y	Folks....at least read the book before you write a review...	The point of writing a review for a book is helping out other folks who might be potential readers of a particular book. The reviews help them decide if the book is worth their time or money. That said, an imperative criteria for writing a book is FULLY READING THE BOOK. It's astounding the number of reviewers of this book who didn't even take the time to finish reading the story, instead they went on to invest their time in writing a disparaging review. <br /> <br />The story picks up some time after Hal Jordan's death and is told from the POV of his ill-named sidekick \\"Pieface\\" aka Tom Kalmaku. Tom had been one of Hal's biggest supporters as well as one of his closest friends but the legacy that Hal left under his wake has destroyed Tom's faith and respect in Hal and has brought about self-loathing for even trusting Hal in the first place. He spends most of his days drunk and getting into fights at bars over insulting Green Lantern. <br /> <br />One day, a stranger shows up with a child (who bears a striking resemblance to hal Jordan) who had been entrusted to Tom. There are no explanations as to who the mother might be. There is only a note from Hal saying, \\"fix it\\". From then on Tom embarks on a journey with the young boy, from Carol's home all the way to the JLA Watchtower and to OA. On the way, we get brief glimpses into the past and an intimate look at the relationship between Hal and Tom. But following the child, is also a creature who was created from the spirits of the green lanterns that Hal had killed during his rampant as Parallax. <br /> <br />It's should be pretty obvious from the reviews that the boy is not Hal's son. I'll leave it at that and not spoil the story any further. The story, in my opinion is very well written and captures the dismal feeling that Hal's death has imparted on those who knew him best, some feel sorrow while others feel betrayed and fear. We see the JLA trying to forcefully remove the ring from the boy (even going head to headwith him) and we also see the the other disenchanted surviving members of the Green Lantern Corps and the hate they bear for all things Hal Jordan. Contrary to some of the reviews, the writer, Joe Kelly does not pick apart the tradition and the legacy of the character. He obviously respects the character and respects the continuity enough to keep it intact. While doing that, he manages to add a whole new event to the green lantern mythos.  <br /> <br />The art is provided by Brent Anderson and Bill Sienkiewicz, both very well known and respected for their work. The art here is simple and the linework is sometimes messy but it suits the story. It sort of resembles the work of Neal Adams. Some of the splas pages are very well done...check out the page where Hal goes on the rampage as Parallax and you'll see what I am saying. All in all, this is a very good read and is highly recommended.   <br /> <br />            <br />  <br /> <br />	2005-02-09
US	32236382	R2MS72BK5QVYBV	1401203469	528156158	JLA: The Tenth Circle	Books	1	4	10	N	N	What happened.......?	This will be the question that you will be left with if you are unfortunate enough to have read this book. But please be advised that my review is based on the unbound monthly comics and not the collected TPB. Despite boasting writer Chris Claremont and artist John Byrne and Jerry Ordway....this story falls flat on its face. The basic premise is that a vampire (Crucifer) has hold on Superman  and has launched him against the JLA. Batman delves into the mystery when he is looking for missing children. Anyhow, the story takes a turn for the worse when the Legion of Doom is reintroduced and saves the day...yes, it is that simple. The story is very weak for any story and reads like it's more from an episode of \\"Superfriends\\" than the more complex settings that was  started by Grant Morrison. The art is pretty good though...nothing extraordinary but still good. Avoid this book and read something else.	2004-12-02
US	32236382	R223UJNO30VR5T	140120242X	615396589	JLA: Trial by Fire	Books	5	15	17	N	N	One of my all-time favorite JLA stories.	This book collects the 6 part issue of JLA: Trial by Fire. It is Joe Kelly's final run on the JLA for the near future. In that respect Joe Kelly manages to leave on a very high note.     The story begins with criminals all-over the world going regretful of their actions. KKK members douse themselves on fire, Joker and Two-Face demand the death sentence for their actions and even President Luthor is left in a coma by a telepath, an ancient breed of Martian known as the Burning Maritan. At the same time we get a look at how the Martian Manhunter, Jo'nn Jonz has overcome his fear with fire and has taken a temporary leave of the JLA to spend time with his teacher/lover, ex-villain Scorch. JLA decides to cut Jo'nn's vacation in order to have his assist with the telepath case. That's all I'm gonna say about the story because anything else would be a spoiler. Let's just say that a good hero goes bad....really really bad and the savior of the JLA and the World is the most-unexpected of heroes.     This story shows Joe Kelly in his top form. The story is very cleverly written. In addition it contains small commentaries that  really makes you feel the urgency of the heroes and the enjoyment of the antagonist, i.e. \\"Somewhere Superman has just said his first real curse word in years, that has to count for something\\" and \\"Batman teleported out before I could gut him, slippery devil\\". The art team of Mahnke and Nguyen is also in stellar form, every splash pages, every panel exudes energy.        I have to say that I truly enjoyed this book and it is among my favorite JLA stories, along with Grant Morrison's first JLA story, New World Order, Mark Waid's Tower of Babble and Joe Kelly's the Obsidian Age. Personally, I don't see anything wrong with this book. I am personally saddened to see Joe Kelly go from JLA since, I really enjoyed his stories. But the good news is that he leaves us with one of his best works.	2004-10-15
US	32236382	R3UELRX9CW02AS	1563899159	286559882	Superman: Our Worlds At War - Book 01 (Superman (Graphic Novels))	Books	1	12	14	N	N	Skip this...you won't miss a thing	Let me start off by saying that I am a big-fan of a lot of the writers involved in this project, i.e. Jeph Loeb, Joe Kelly. Individually, these guys have produced some of the most memorable super-hero stories of the last few years. But this massive cross-over leaves a lot to be desired, especially a cross-over so heavily advertised and touted as \\"Will shatter the DC Heroes forever\\".  <br /> <br />A lot of the reviewers are right when they say that the story makes no sense. The readers are basically bombarded with cast of characters, slug-fest after slug-fest after slug-fest, massive casualties and a vain attempt at being emotional. The story basically revolves around Imperix probes landing on Earth and for some cliched reasons wants to destroy Earth. Of course Superman, the JLA and every major DC heroes are going to try and stop them. There is one battle after another...people die (Aquaman, Steel, Wonder Woman's Mom, The Kents etc.) There is also a Supergirl story thrown in there for no reason...and the story is pretty bad. The idea however had a lot of potential but the pacing and the particular focus of different writers drag it downhill. A better story is created out of the aftermath of Our Worlds at War, which is JLA: The Obisidian Age (see my review).   <br /> <br />Superman also teams up with Darkseid to stop Imperix but the nature of their relationship escapes me...one moment they are advicing each other and the next moment, Darkseid is beating on Superman to get him to wear a suit?! <br /> <br />The art is pretty bad also. I never was a big fan of manga and Ed. McG mostly draws manga. There are other artists whose work is sub-par. The best of the lost being Doug Mahnke. <br /> <br />My advice is to skip over this arc. It is pointless, confusing and you'll soon wish for a refund (anybody want to buy mine?). Trust me when I say you won't miss a thing. This money is better spent on JLA: Trial by Fire or JLA: Obisidian Age.	2004-10-14
US	32236382	R803ILM2F43UY	1563898624	996736004	Superman: 'Til Death Do Us Part	Books	2	3	4	N	N	Too Long & too irrelevant.	As you can see this book has a lot of pages but most of the story in these pages are just fillers. They are long and irrelevant to the main story and at a certain point makes you stop caring about the story altogether. The main premise is interesting...it's about Lois and Clark's marriage being on the rocks. Superman tries his best to accomodate to her feelings or at least what he perceives to  be her feelings. While this story can be told in a limited number of issues, DC comics opts to spread it over other mini-stories that are much less interesting. The end result is you get a mediocre collection of Superman stories.	2004-08-20
US	32236382	R1XP5JUES4UYZ0	1893858332	160771772	Examkrackers MCAT Organic Chemistry	Books	5	16	17	N	N	It gets to the point and fast	Like almost every other examkrackers books this book gets straight to the point. It is a great review for the MCAT organic section which seems to be undergoing constant revisions by the AAMC. I am happy to say that examkrackers tries to keep up with the changes and accurately reflects them. This is in contrast to a lot of the other books put out by Kaplan and The Princeton Review who republishes the same edition with a new cover and that's it. The contents barely change. Just take a look at any Kaplan organic review book and you'll know what I mean. Organic has always been my strong suit and I can easily deduce a lot of the reactions. But I needed to touch up on isomerism which is a critical portion of the MCAT for which I used this book. The book is straightforward...has 4 chapters (100 pages) with four 30 minute exams and practice questions pertaining to each section in between. For those who live by flash card or index cards...this book comes with a bunch of them which covers everything from IR specs to the pinacol rearrangement. Highly recommended.	2004-08-04
US	32236382	R24S2ALTVREJCX	140120323X	369746631	Superman/Batman Vol. 1 - Public Enemies	Books	5	6	11	N	N	Excellent Story, Beautiful Art	Jeph Lopeb has outdone himself on tackling arguably two of the most popular heroes in pop culture, the Man of Steel and the Dark Knight. Now, many attempts at the team-ups between the two titans have been done, some with mediocre success and some with no success. Jeph Loeb's story is a far cry from any of the older World's Finest type stories that have featured the two heroes. It is very well plotted and is executed to near perfection.<br />The story starts off with a large chunk of kryptonite on a collision course with Earth. Luthor uses this to his advantage and puts a $1 billion bounty of Superman's spit-curl and even hires a meta-human team boasting the inclusion of Green Lanter, Powergirl, Captain Comet etc. And add to that the JSA also sends Hawkman and Captain Marvel after them and they get into a showdown. And if that wasn't bad enough, an older Superman (the Kingdom Come version) drops into the bat cave and beats the tar out of Superman and Batman. This is done in order to ensure that no one dies from the mistakes made here and now. <br />There are also sub-plots that include possible information as to the identity of the murderer of Bruce Wayne's parent (yeah I know...I thought Batman knew the killer, but this was apparently all debunked in the pre- and post-crisis stuff) brought forth by Superman. <br />Now, the amount of stuff touched on by Loeb in these first few issues just goes to show you that the man got a million ideas in his head. Hopefully they will come to fruition in the future issues. <br />And finally the art....I have not been a big-fan of Ed McGuinesses' work (dating back to his earlier work on various Superman series). They always looked too cartoony, in a bad catoony way. But this time his art was perfect. It was still cartoony but it was good cartoony (make whatever you want out of that). <br />If you like tight story-telling with a lot of action with a lot of substance (and who wouldn't want that?) this book is for you.	2004-06-19
US	32236382	R2RGM6932G3777	1401201253	398275267	Batman, Legends of the Dark Night: Terror (Batman (Graphic Novels))	Books	3	13	15	N	N	Needlessly overdramatic	This collection is a sequel to Batman: Prey published druing the early days of the Legends of the Dark Knights. Prey was superbly written and beautifully drawn. The same team returned on TERROR which was as far as sequels go is worse than the original. <br />The story is lackluster and predictable. Hugo Strange has returned from the dead and has procured Scarecrow do destroy the Batman, physically and mentally. That's pretty much it as far as the plot goes. Sure, there is murder, intrigue and betrayal but nothing too spectacular. There is also Catwoman who at one point becomes an annoyance. Her constant games of \\"catch me\\" with Batman quickly grows tedious and boring. It has been done before (i.e. in Hush, Long Halloween, Dark Victory). The writer (Doug Moench) also goes terribly out of his way to make the story dark and disturbing. For example, he had  Dr. Strange french kissing a mannequin, painting bats with the blood of his victims. The conversation between the characters (especially Batman and Gordon) are drawn out and almost seems like they are not talking to each other, but talking for the sake of hearing themselves talk. All these add up to the story being needlessly oversdramatic.<br />And as far as the art goes, Paul Gulacy does a superb job. His action scenes read like a storyboard. He also does a couple of great splash pages. The art is the saving grace for this book and the reason why I gave it three stars. While, some fans might enjoy the story, others (like me) may not.	2004-04-23
US	32236382	R3VW2WQGJX50UW	1563897539	365216971	JLA:  Heaven's Ladder	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Where do Gods go when they die?	This is the question that begins the book. A race of superhuman and superintelligent beings have arrived and have captured earth along with a bunch of other universes to form a bead of universes. This entire race is about to die in a few days but since they are like most races, they do not know abour life after death. Therefore, they decide to abduct different planets in order to pry into the different belief systems and using that data construct a makeshift ladder to heaven. And they acquire this data by placing a disguised agent admist each population. And like any advanced society, there is dissension, and there is another group of these superbeings who feel that being so superior, they should not be delving into the lower populace. That's the story in a nutshell but I am leaving out details and the ending...as if the readers can't figure it out. Anyways, the story is truly unique and I for one enjoyed it. There is action but there is also a little hint of philosophy thrown in by Mark Waid, which is that irrgardless of the caliber of advancements, every culture has a common struggle with the afterlife...if there is one. It was a nice change of pace from typical JLA stories, eventhough in some degrees it did encompass typical JLA elements (i.e. dying races, abducted planets, aliens, earth-saving, etc.) <BR>    <BR>The art on this book is beautiful and flawless and is accentuated by the oversized format. Some of the splash-pages (very large splash-pages in this case) are worthy of being made into posters. All in all, it is an excellent read and worth getting. Highly recommended.	2004-04-13
US	32236382	R2LZXN5I0PT9PC	1563899914	356712598	JLA: The Obsidian Age - Book 01 (Justice League (DC Comics) (paperback))	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	One of the best JLA stories...honest!!!	Okay, first off, I was skeptical about a whole epic story centered around Aquaman who is (in my opinion) not the most interesting JLA character. But I picked up the book anyways, since I enjoy the work of Joe Kelly. <BR>First things first: the plot. Two mysterious travellers (one a shaman Indian and the other an Aztec warrior) have come to destroy the JLA and save the world. Their coming is seen by Green Lantern who is plagued with images of the entire roster of JLA dying in battle. Anyways, the JLA kick the collective butts of these warriors and sends them packing back to their time. But in order to escape, they invoke magic from the past and resurrect Atlantis from the depths of the sea. But the new Atlantis is in ruins and a message of SOS is inscribed by Aquaman (who was thought dead but is stuck in the past). The JLA decides to help their ally and open a portal and travel back to the past. There's just one problem, they don't know how to get back and nobody knows where they are. Before going, Batman senses danger and puts a back-up JLA team in effect (always the thinker) headed by Nightwing and is made up of members from the JSA and others :). I won't say who they are but they are colorful characters. The new JLA goes into action to solve the world's problems in the present while the Old JLA is trying to save Aquaman and Atlantis. And if all that isn't enought, the JLA in ancient times is also facing another league called, the ANCIENTS.  <br />Okay, I'll admit that this is not the easiest plot to understand but it's worth reading. The story is very well-written. Joe Kelly correctly captures the personalities of each members and makes the interactions between them very readable. This book is highly recommended and I really really enjoyed it. I would also recommend getting part two of the Obsidian Age. Trust me, after reading Part I, you'll kick yourself for not getting Part II. <br />And finally, the art is also pretty good. The art is divided up between two artists. One artist renders the artwork to the New JLA in the modern times and another renders the artwork for the JLA in ancient times. For my money, I like the work of Doug Mahnke who does the ancient JLA portions.	2004-02-23
US	32236382	R3FY2RBYFS2VS4	1401200826	506626302	Batman & Superman: World's Finest	Books	4	9	10	N	Y	It has its highs and lows.	First off, the reason I got this book is because of the new Superman/Batman monthly series. I really enjoyed the issues and decided to get the World's Finest to see more Batman/Superman team-ups. <br />World's Finest chronicles the first ten-years of Batman and Superman's relationship. It starts off w/ Bruce Wayne and Clark Kent attending a charity function of a mutual friend who is kidnapped and held hostage. The two heroes arrive at the scene but due to their inability to work together, they are unable to save his life. From that point on, they decide to remmeber that day by meeting every year and working to improve their group dynamics. In my opinion, not the strongest reason for teaming up....but I'll buy it. End of year one.<br />The next stories, follow the contrasting nature of Batman and Superman. For example, Superman works hard to smile for the public and earn the people's trust whereas Batman is content sticking to the shadows and letting people think he is an urban legend. He even explains the madness in his methods. The personal nature of the conversations between the two characters is the book's high point. Another high point of the book is the way that Karl Kesel ties in the different events into a common  timeline for the two heroes. <br />The low point of the book is in its art, in some areas it gets rather sloppy (esp. at the end). Another low point is the rather cliched dialogues that the chracters spout when fighting villains. It takes away from the seriousness of the story and makes it seem dated. But since the book had more high points than low points, I have given it four stars. For me personally, I enjoyed the story where Superman takes Batman into Smallville after Jason's (Robin II) death. And also, where Superman returns from death to confront a new man under the mask.	2004-01-08
US	32236382	R3LWN0L86DBEPM	1563898683	471540719	Batman: Dark Victory	Books	5	1	2	N	Y	Better than the original.	This book is the follow up to the much successful story, The Long Halloween. Now keep in mind that The Long Halloween is one of the most popular Batman stories written in recent times and trying to beat that or at least tie it is a daunting task. But Loeb and Sale successfully pull it off and even gets one up on the original. <br />Dark Victory pick up where the Long Halloween left off. The Holiday case is re-opened and he is released due to technicality, Harvey Dent escapes from Arkham, and a young Dick Grayson is left an orphan. From the very beginning, a war ensues between the old-school wiseguys and the modern freaks (i.e. Joker, Two-face, etc.) for the control of Gotham. I won't spoil the story more than it has already been done. All I have to say is that Jeph Loeb successfully manages to tie in all the events in a very coherent manner. For example, the death of Dick Grayson's parents are not just thrown in as a random act of violence but is tied in with the war between the freaks and the mobsters. Loeb also incorporates the idea of Batman (who is dark and moody) having a partner (who is on the other hand restless, talkative and dresses in a bright red and yellow outfit) in a mature manner.<br />And as for the mystery itself, it continues in nearly the same manner as the Long Halloween. A killer is murdering former members of the Gotham City Police Department and is tagging them with hang-man puzzles. I'll admit that I was surprised by the killer's identity. But I can't say the same for all the other readers out there who might be a better sleuth than I am. <br />All in all, in my opinion, Dark Victory reads better than the Long Halloween and is highly recommended.	2004-01-08
US	32236382	RMN2KONIC2I88	1401201261	790237242	Batman: The Ring, The Arrow and The Bat (Batman (Graphic Novels))	Books	1	9	16	N	Y	Avoid this book like the plague	The story in this book is predictable, unexciting and is simply not worth the time or money. The first part is a story about how Green Arrow and Green Lantern try to beat a very colorful and prdictable and rather cheesy villain. The second story is where Green Arrow teams up with Batman in order to defeat the same cheesy villain who have accumulated more wickedness (rather cheesiness) over the years. The writing is very dated and more suited for comics from the 80's. For the modern reader, it is ill-suited and they will not enjoy it, especially when compared to the quality of recent stories. It is simply not a good Batman, Green Arrow or Green Lantern story.	2003-12-31
US	32236382	R22LZ44M62B1EH	1563898020	583757422	Green Arrow: Quiver	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Green Arrow is back	I had never read a Green Arrow story but I was somewhat familiar with his background history because of his appearances in Batman (who I am a big fan of) and JLA. I always thoguth he was a somewhat predictable supehero suffering from a Robin Hood Complex. I decided to read Quiver just because of Batman's role in the story....and after reading it, I am a Green Arrow fan. The story moves at a right pace with art that perfecly complements it. It begins with Oilver Queen's resurrection and his subsequent &quot;examination&quot; at the hands of batman (which was very entertaining by the way). It is a great story and shows why Green Arrow is an integral part of the DC universe and not just another Robin Hood wannabe superhero.	2003-11-13
US	32236382	R2B0DMISUEHFFQ	1563899361	88812005	JLA Vol. 9: Terror Incognita	Books	4	1	7	N	Y	They're Baaaaaack	This collects the final run of Mark Waid on JLA. The White Martians (being the pesky critters that they are) have escaped from the amnesic trance that Jonn' had put them under in the very forst JLA story \\"New World order\\". The White Martians have escaped from Jonn's wish to be not alone in the ID case in the trade United We Stand. They have been busy and since fire is their only source of weakness they have done away w/ oxygen in the atmosphere, so no fire. The JLA really gets their butts handed to them until they device a very epic and sneaky trick and force all the white martians in the phantom zone. The second story is a continuation of the Joker's Laugh arc concerning Dr. Polaris (worst story in the collection). And the final story, very funny and very enjoyable is the story of how Santa  Claus got inducted into the JLA as told by Palstic Man, so you know it's a stretch. Overall, a good read.	2003-11-02
US	32236382	R27N3YQITDO605	1563895110	590536066	JLA (Book 5): Justice for All	Books	4	3	4	N	Y	JLA vs. the World	In this trade the JLA goes up against the Shaggy Man and the U.S. Army, a former JLA-member, Triumph and a genie and an elf from the 6th Dimension. This story also brings Johnny Thunder's magical genie into the contemoprary JLA scene...pretty enjoyable. There's also a story that takes place in Gotham during the No Man's Land arc where the JLA is to take on Bruce Wayne in civilian guise. Overall most of these stories were enjoyable and I personally liked them. But take note that none of these are earth-shattering stories like the ones that you would find in the Tower of Babel or the Obsidian Age, they have no long term effect but in traditional JLA-standard they are just out saving the world and having a great adventure in the process.	2003-11-02
US	32236382	RYCGSW673U5HE	1563899418	260752158	JLA: Golden Perfect	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Joe Kelly takes over the JLA	This collection marks the arrival of a new creative team to handle the JLA, Joe Kelly (writer) w. Mahnke and Nguyen providing the art. In my opinion they do a pretty decent job of filling the rather large shoes of previous writers such as Grant Morrison and Mark Waid. The first story shows the JLA saving the world in a two minute warning. In this story I really enjoyed the diplay of personality of every JLA members before they were called in, i.e. Green Lantern no having enough money to buy a frappachino, then Superman leaving Lois, Batman training w/ Wonder Woman while trying to solve three other cases at the same time. The next story is the Golden Perfect which centers around the breaking of Wonder Woman's lasso and the subsequent alteration of all facets of reality...okay so, it's a little farfetched but still enjoyable. The final and the best story in my opinion is the &quot;Dark Nut Strikes Again&quot;. It is a &quot;team-up&quot; (if you can call it that)  between Plastic Man and Batman. We find out about the rather tumultuous civil life of plastic man where he has abandoned his son, who has joined up w/ a gang. The boy also has inherited his father's pliable powers. Anyways, Batman scares the boy straight out of the gangsta wanna-be phase. In the story, Batman even comments on how he thought Plastic Man would have made the best father becuse he would always keep his kids laughing. It is really a great story. In my opinion as a JLA reader from the very beginning, Joe Kelly writes the best plastic man. I highly recommend this trade.	2003-11-02
US	32236382	RXA7PSJ632U1U	1563893940	831919694	JLA (Book 2): American Dreams	Books	4	4	6	N	Y	Well, I thought it was good	I have to disagree w/ a lot of the negative reviews that have been given to this book. Someone said, Morrison's getting better...better from what, did he stink before? I mean the other JLA story he'd written before was the New World order which was recently picked by Wizard as one of the top JLA must-reads. So, I really don't get the negative reviews. The first story has an amusind audition of potential JLA members, such as Hit Man, Damage etc. but the final pick is Tomorrow Woman who is an android. The next story features the arrival of Zauriel, a fallen angel who is hunted by Asmodel. The dialogue is a bit confusing but the story is good. The final story features the Key and how he is foiled by the new Green Arrow. The Key puts all the JLA in a trance and brings them into an elseworlds scenerio which was very entertaining. The stories are good and the trade is recommended.	2003-11-02
US	32236382	R1QIZSB6IP5YDL	1563894351	925743820	JLA (Book 4): Strength in Numbers	Books	4	7	7	N	Y	The JLA reformed and stronger than ever	Following the disbanding of the JLA in the Rock of Ages, the fathers of JLA decide to reform the team and increase the member number, the new members are Zauriel, Steel, Huntress, Plastic Man. This collection also introduces Prometheus and how he takes out the enitre JLA on their own Moonbase. I thought that this was the best story in the trade. The next story was about the case of Julian September and about how he alters probability and how the most normal occurrences are thereby changed, i.e. Bruce Wayne's parents were never killed etc. The final stories were of Adam Strange (the worst one in the trade). All in all pretty entertaining.	2003-11-02
US	32236382	R390TK8WBDFAER	156389369X	360956459	JLA (Book 1): New World Order	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	The rebirth of the JLA	First off, I've never been much of a super-team fan. Chalk it up to the Superfriends, the old Fantastic Four cartoons. I always thought that the entire team scenerio seriously limited character development and intensity. They all had near identical personalities and you always knew that the heores were gonna come out on top no matter what. And after beating all the villains they would stand around in poses saying something corny. I harbored the same feelings regarding the JLA reincarnation that was headed by Grant Morrison, Howard porter and John Dell.<BR>Was I wrong. <BR>The new JLA had everything that the old super-teams didn't have. Character development, near end-of-the world situtations and they didn't really get along with each other. New World Order is the story that set the entire wheel in motion to the rebirth of one of the greatest superhero teams in comics. The story begins with the arrival of a fleet of aliens calling themselves the Hypercla. They all have superpowers that are equal to or rival those of the JLA's and they manage to sway the public in their favor in a few days. They are hell bent on taking down the league and manage to capture everyone except the Batman. Morrison shows that even without any superpowers Batman is one of the most formidable opponents for any super-being any day of the week. He alone takes out 2/3 of the Hyperclan by himself by exploiting their secret identity. I won't post any spoilers regarding the ending because it's well worth reading it and figuring it out yourself. And regarding character development, there is a lot of that in this book also. Superman is the poster boy for the JLA, the martian manhunter is uneasy in the team and even at one point betrays them to the hyperclan. And Batman doesn't seem to like anybody. He is shown as a guy who without any super-powers has got the largest ego in the JLA. That's the way the Batman should always be written. <BR>I highly recommend this. And FYI, this arc was recently pickedby Wizard to be the cream of the crop w/ respect to JLA stories. Get this book, you will not be disappointed.	2003-10-01
US	32236382	R29E6M9VO1P91L	1563897938	417479850	JLA Vol. 8: Divided We Fall	Books	5	15	16	N	Y	The big seven are Back together again	This collection follows directly after the Tower of Babel storyline. This follows as the JLA comes to terms with Batman's betrayal and consequent expulsion from the group. The first story involves the Queen of Fables, who have escaped from a book of fairy tales and is suffering from the Snow White's Stepmother Complex and is intent on bringing down Wonder Woman (in her eyes, Snow White). The JLA battle all types of fairy tales monsters and modern horror-flick creatures (Jason and even the Terminator). There's even a scene where the Martian Manhunter is being shoved into a burning oven by a witch a la Hensel and Gretel. Anyways, the JLA overcomes the odds but they are at a major crisis, where those that voted for Batman don't seem to see eye-to-eye w/ those who voted against him. Superman sees this problem and has a conversation w/ Batman where it shows how his betryal has left the JLA vulnerable and uneasy due to the distrust growing between them. To remedy this problem, Batman calls them to the Bat-cave but there's one problem, every single super-hero and their alter-egos have literally split (except for Aquaman and Wonder Woman). The split takes it toll on the JLA, as Mark Waid shows how one cannot co-exist w/out the other. Superman looks more like the Kryptonian ruler he had been forseen to be by his father and Clark Kent is afraid of his own shadow. Batman seems to be simply a machine w/ no personality and Bruce Wayne is a psychotic fop. Anyhow, at the end Plastic Man (actually his alter ego) comes to the rescue and sorts out this entire metaphysical mess. The JLA returns to all its glory with Batman welcomed back into the fold. I really enjoyed this story, it was epic in the sense that it involved the near end of the World but to me it seemed to hinge more on the personal side of the JLA. This contrasts greatly from Grant Morrison's epic tales which involved a cartload of chracters. Mark Waid has hit a homerun wih this story and I would recommend it to all comic book fans.	2003-09-23
US	32236382	R3F43F8017S0GL	1563890976	903735067	Death of Superman (Superman (DC Comics))	Books	3	0	1	N	N	It delivers what it promises	The death of superman is exactly what it sounds like...the death of superman. In this story, Superman fights an unknown creature called Doomsday (who is for one reason or other hell-bent on destruction) and falls in battle. The story is fast paced and has pages filled with superman and Doomsday swapping hits and all-in-all racking up a huge amount of collateral damage. In the end, Big Blue dies. This story came out when I was in junior high and at that time I felt it was the best book I had ever read but now, it is hard not to look at the numerous plot holes and loose threads in the story. But comics has matured and has come a long way but this story is still worth picking up for the buzz it generated. It's fun to read but don't expect anything Alan Moore-esque or Jeph Loeb type writing.	2003-09-10
US	32236382	RXT55MPXPCBX8	1563899132	996210454	Batman: Bruce Wayne Murderer?	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Could have been a really great story	This collection has a couple of its moment and the story starts off great but sadly, dwindles in the middle due to the appearance of too many players. All of a sudden, Spoiler, Canary and many other memebers of the Bat-family jumps in and causes major confusion of a great story. But despite that, the stories are decent, particularly the ones where Bruce Wayne is in jail and has no more masks to hide behind. And the final story is any comic-readers dream when Batman goes toe-to-toe w/ his former partner. This story takes a disturbing look at the man behind the mask and despite all the problems that he has faced head-on, Batman decides to run from this one.	2003-09-05
US	32236382	R2C97LHCSUY47Q	1569714819	171716005	Sin City: Hell and Back (Book 7)	Books	3	4	11	N	N	Not for me	I am not really familiar w/ Frank Miller's Sin City works, I had mostly read his Batman: DKR, Year One, Wolverine and Daredevil books, So, I decided to give the Sin City books a try. I really didn't enjoy the story and seems like your run-of-the-mill hot damsel in distress with the \\"hero\\" to the rescue. But the rescue soon turns to a Stevel Segal movie with a lot of violence, topped off with nudity and sex. It's not a bad story but it's not a great story, not for me anyways. Maybe, it's because I've been reading superhero comic books for nearly 15 years, so it wasn't to my liking.	2003-08-24
US	32236382	R3JL62AU4HP94M	0930289528	333940954	V for Vendetta	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Depressing but a really good story	This story shows England in 1996 (it was the future in 1987, when this was writter) and how it has become a fascist and over-bearing society that is teeming w/ corruption, greed and misery. The whole of England is controlled by the leader who has equipped the streets and homes w/ microphones, video cameras in order to spy on its citizens. But all this is disrupted by a man who wears a mask w/ a large smile (see cover). Gradually throghout the story we see his origin (he was put in a concentration camp w/ the Gays, the Jews and the African-Americans and experimented upon). We also see the emergence of other chracters w/ a variety of motives and personalities who add to the story. It is close to the Watchmen story (also by Alan Moore) but it draws more closely to 1984 by Geroge Orwell. It is sorta depressing and the end and the novel ends w/ a very great mystery not being revealed.	2003-08-24
US	32236382	R1BVI1NM61PBG2	1893858251	452689010	Examkrackers MCAT Biology	Books	4	17	18	N	Y	Re: The best MCAT Biology review out there	I was enrolled in the Princeton Review Course during this summer in order to take the MCAT in August, while the physical sciences were very well covered by the Princeton Review themselves, the Biology portion on the other hand was way overblown. They had over 300 pages of Biology Facts and Materials of which the majority is not even tested on the MCAT. So, when I ordered the Examkrakers Biology book I was much relieved to see that the info is condensed into half the pages and it was also written in a much easy to read and friendly manner. They emphasized matering the basics which can be used to answer the more complex facts tested on the MCAT. I just took my MCAT and I have to say that this book helped a lot.	2003-08-18
US	32236382	R2ADXRJR8HCGV4	0930289943	531687427	Batman: Tales of the Demon	Books	2	1	15	N	N	Re: A big Let-down	The Tales of the Demon should never have been collected in the first place, the stories barely fit together and leaves a lot of questions. Very little about Ras Al Ghul is actually revealed in a collection entitled &quot;Tales of the Demon&quot;. Batman is shown as a joke telling superhero with little or nore of the dark qualities that we had become used to since the last two decades. But I guess the story telling style is simply unappealing to modern readers because it is so old and rather incoherent. I really wouldn't recommend this for any Batman Fans.	2003-08-18
US	32236382	R27QT33S7K7V6P	0785100490	217782362	Marvels	Books	5	33	37	N	N	The Marvel Universe throguh the eyes of the everyman	First and formost, I am not a very big Marvel fan. I picked this up after reading &quot;Kingdom Come&quot; and thoroughly enjoying Alex Ross' art. The art here was just as good as it was in Kingdom Come but the story was totally different. As a matter of fact, this was different that any comics stories I've read. Nearly all stories put the superheroes in the driver's seat, with the stories being from their point of view and narration. This was the exact opposite. This story, much to its credit is told from the point of view of a photojounalist, Phil Sheldon. He chroicles the entire birth of the Marvel Universe, from the birth of the Human Torch in the 1940's to the death of Gwen Stacy in the more recent chain of events. He tells a story of awe, appreciation, respect and fear regarding the Marvels (as he likes to call these superheroes). He reflects the emotions of how humans would truly react whether this phenomenon had really occurred. The end product being a masterpiece and one of the best comic stories....no, one of the best stories ever written. As I mentioned in the beginning, the art is flawless and truly a feast for the eyes. The details that Ross places on every panel he paints is truly uncanny and cements his status as on the best artists in the medium. Much applause and crdit should go to the author, Kurt Busiek who does the seemingly impossible task of tying together all the events on the Marvel Universe in a very coherent manner (from the sighting of the X-MEN to the senate hearing for Tony Stark, the disbanding of The Avengers to the death of Captain Stacy). This shows that he had put in a lot of work on this painstaking research and story. All of these factors puts MARVELS on the list with other comic masterpieces such as The Watchmen, The Dark Knight Returns, etc. Anybody who believes comics are for kids and just a showcase for colorful and flamboyant superheroes should read this. This story manages to penetrate deeply emotional issues that are comparable and might even rival some of the writing done in the more mature and regular medium.	2003-07-08
US	32236382	R2F14CWWDV9KE	1563893304	523289763	Kingdom Come	Books	5	0	2	N	N	An epic story	This is your usual epic story of global proportions including the JLA except it is much more than that. This story revolves around the key chracters of the JLA (Superman, Batman, Wonder Woman) and how they have coped with the changing times...apparently not too well. Superman has exiled himself from the people of Earth and is holed up in the Fortress of Solitude literally in solitude, Wonder Woman has lost her royalty since she has failed in her duties as an ambassador. And Batman apparently had never recovered from the attack by Bane in Knightfall, he weares a metal exoskelton in order to move around, the Wayne Manor is destroyed. But despite all that, Batman has managed to build a fleet of bat-robots in order to keep Gotham City protected, apparently with much success. Also, all the old timers are gone and is replaced by Magog and his Gen X superhero cronies who have no regard for civilians or moral decency. This is only the first couple of pages. Enter Parasite and Captain Atom and Magog is Kansas, poof, Kansas is gone with millions dead. This brings Superman out of retirement and the rest of the former JLA follow suit and joins Superman in the good fight. Eveything seems perfect but his return after so long has taken a toll on the relationship b/w the metahumans and the humans. The UN is less than thrilled at seeing this resurfacing of superheroes whom they have come to see with a suspicious eye and also most of the gen. X heroes refuse to see the light and follow the examples of the league. Even Batman sees the return of the JLA as a curse. So, going on his merry ways Superman and the JLA imprison the new superheros who refuse to follow suit, Captain Marvel under brain control from Luthor release all the prisoners on the JLA and himself goes out to detroy Superman. And if all this wasn't enough, the UN afraid that the fighting b/w the metahumans will spread and destroy Earth (like Kansas) decides to deploy three nukes onto the battaling metahumans. With a loudboom and flash and a mushroom cloud the battle is over and nearly half the metahumans (good and bad) are dead. Although this is the severe oversimplification of the entire plot, this is the basic premise. More happens at the end but writing that down here will serve as a spoiler and shortchange the readers of an enjoyable reading experience. As I have said before the plot is epic and involves nearly every conceivable character to ever appear under the DC Universe banner (from Superman to Orion to Mr. Miracle to even a cameo by Dead Man). The battle is epic and decides the fate of the entire planet. This is just me describing the plot, now the art....visually stunning. The art by Alx Ross is truly a feast for the eyes, his interpretations of the character is very vivid and realistic as if they could and do exist. From his drawing as an aging Superman (who seems to be getting a little pudgy around the waist) to his aging Batman (complete w/ a comb-over), Alex Ross manages to bring age to the familiar superheroes in a very realistic manner...no matter how powerful, no one can escape the weight of time. After saying all that, I would say that the art is flawless and Mark Waid does an excellent  job of tying together the entire JLA for one final time for their greatest adventure.	2003-07-08
US	32236382	R2Y55BU84XRZSR	1563893428	277739198	Batman: The Dark Knight Returns	Books	5	6	8	N	N	A comic book classic	This is one of the best stories that I almost missed out on as a kid. I was a Batman fan but at that time trade paperbacks and internets were rarely spoken of or known of. I almost passed on this TPB at my local store for one of the more recent stories. But when I asked the \\"comic book guy\\" (here comes the Simpsons rip-off) at the store, he recommended the Dark Knight Returns paperback. I was not disappointed. Ten Years later and I am still not disappointed.   <BR>This is one of the milestone comic stories of this era. Written by Frank Miller, the story shows a brooding, old and retired Bruce Wayne. The world is in chaos and Bruce Wayne decides to take back the world by donning the mantel of the Bat. But his second coming is met with opposition from all classes, the mutant gangs and its leader, the Gotham City police dept., the Joker, Two-Face and last and most dangerous opposition from Superman. The plot has been talked about plenty so I'll digress from spoiling further. <BR>The strength of the writing lies in Miller's ability to personalize the characters to the readers. At one moment, we are deeply immersed in the thoughts of Batman (strategizing against criminals) and at the next, we are immersed in the thoughts of Comm. Gordon contemplating his retirement. The art fits the story perfectly and is laid out perfectly throughout the story. There are splash-pages only when necessary and is not blatantly used everywhere. Another strength in Miller's writing is ability to expose the readers to a brand new Batman with deep, dark and fascistic thoughts. He also manages to make social comments that reflect the time period (the arms race, Reagan's presidency, overseas threat). He mixes fiction and some loose non-fiction in order to produce a book that is still one of the best, more than 2 decades after its publication.	2003-06-21
US	32236382	RFAG2CCDOO2K0	1401200613	192335505	1: Batman: Hush - Volume One (Batman Beyond (DC Comics))	Books	4	5	11	N	N	Great Art, Decent Story	I actually started collecting the storyline in the single-issue comics from the Batman vs. Superman and since nearly all the backissues for this storyline is near-impossible to get, I bought the TPB for the earlier stories. The art of Jim Lee is stunning, it is easy to see why he ranks as one of the best comic artists of all time. And add Jim's talents with Jeph Loeb's storytelling, you've got a winner. While I really admire Jeph Loeb's works (The Long Halloween, Dark Victory, Superman for all Seasons), the story for Hush falls a tad below my expectations. Sure there is a great plot, a new villain, new developments, but in my opinion the stories seem to drag on a little. The main point being that I guess he was tryiong to provide elbow room for Jim Lee to showcase his take on the world of the Dark Knight. I mean some of the plots that encompass an entire issue could have been done in half the time and space. I guess those who buy the TPB will not feel it as much as those who still have to wait each month for the new upcoming issues, like me, but I guess I am just venting. But other than that complaint the storyline is flawless and a great read. And trust me, get volume two of Hush as well, there are a lot of developments (identities are revealed) :), a lot of old  characters come into play and you finally meet the man behind the enitre Hush storyline. The debate on his identity is a heated one, just check the DC messageboards.	2003-06-21
US	32236382	R3QC1M4A88KUTZ	0930289234	777411096	Watchmen	Books	5	1	2	N	N	re: Comic Books at its best	I was too young when the Watchmen first came out and since it was a title about super-heroes whom I had not known anything about I played it safe and stuck with familiar superheroes (Superman, Batman). Eight years later, I am reading the reviews on Amazon, the Watchmen is a hit and is one of the best stories ever written in the comics genre. I buy it, I read it, I love it. The story is about the sordid life of superheroes out of the costume. Alan Moore takes the superheroes from their awe-inspiring heights and crashed them into the earth in order to show the humble, dismal and twisted side of their life and personality that never shows through. I am happy that I waited eight years before I read this because if I had read it earlier I wouldn't have enjoyed it or understood it. The stories are very complex and unlike any other super-hero stories. It is difficult to tell whether these are actually heroes are not, one of them is a sociopath (Rorschach, my favorite), another a<br />being of almost cosmic capacity (Dr. Manhattan), etc. Sure there are exciting escapades and fisticuffs but the story is dark and alomst apocalyptic in some levels (check out the ending). Anyways, long story short (for the Watchmen, it is a long story) pick up this book even if you don't like comics, you won't be disappointed. It is a great read by anyone's standards.	2003-06-21
US	32236382	R19VB8DG35WZZI	1563895285	625882755	Superman for All Seasons	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	One of the best Superman stories ever	Okay let me clear this up from the beginning, I'm not a superman fan. I always considered him to be a rather one-dimensional character who always seems to fight super-beings of intergalactic origin w/ powers equal or rivaling his own. Oh yeah, and he always wins. To sum it up, I always saw him as a character with little substance and he pertains to mainly slugging it out w/ other super-beings page after page. His dillemas seem larger than life and quite frankly is very difficult to identify with. But my perception totally changed after I read SUPERMAN FOR ALL SEASONS. This graphic novel shows clark's humble but nonethless very poignant upbringing in Smallville. It shows you that Clark Kent defines Superman, not the other way around. Loeb also shows you the very vulnerable side of Superman. It is true he is the world's most powerful man, yes, he can change the course of mighty rivers and bend steel with his bare hands but behind all that, he is still a man with the usual doubts, feelings of vulnerability and fear. John Bryne told the same story of Superman's origin over a decade ago and he created a masterpiece. Loeb and Sale did the same thing and they have also created a masterpiece (although I like the art and story a little better in the Loeb/Sale version). If you are a Superman fan get this book, even if you are not a Superman fan but want to read a good story, get this book, and if you are just a comic book fan, get this book. Just get this book, you won't be sorry.	2003-04-15
US	32236382	R2NRIPOITRVWBH	1563898446	331222438	Batman: The Dark Knight Strikes Again	Books	2	10	14	N	N	OVER A DECADE IN THE MAKING...AND THIS IS IT????	The original dark knight returns was a milestone in comic history that set new guidelines from story-telling. The DKR portrayed Batman as a violent, delusional, arrogant and bitter superhero (what can you expect after fighting crime for so long?) This was Batman at his best. It would be hard to top this one. Fast forward to 2002. Readers of the Dark Knight Returns are brimming w/ anticipation of the long-awaited sequel to the Dark Knight Returns. The first story is good, all the superheroes have either left or are incarcerated. Superman along w/ Wonder Woman and Capt. Marvel are the only ones allowed to operate on Earth. And Lex Luthor and Brainiac are the supreme rulers of Earth and control Superman and his teammates. Everything looks dandy from the surface but all the rights and freedoms of the people are gone. At this point Batman decides that he and his \\"bat-boys\\" have been hidden long enough. They make their debut and break out Captain Atom (who has been living in a petri dish the last couple of years). They also break out the Flash (who had been running on a hamster wheel in order to generate the electricity for the world). Lex Luthor is threatened by the reemergance of these heroes and sends Superman to find whoever is responsible. The issue concludes with Superman getting his butt handed to him by Batman. Then comen the second story...stop everything. The art in the first story was a little sloppy but still decent but by the time, you reach the second issue, the art work has totally deteriorated and continues to do so until the least page. It's like Frank Miller suddenly started to paint w/ a mascara at 3:00 am in the morning to make the 9:00 am deadline. In this one, we are bombarded w/ more characters, their appearances are irrelevant and suddenly this becomes a geriatric JLA story. Although this issuse was bad, I decided to get the next one for closure. But then, due to unexplained delays, I wind up waiting 6 months for the final installment. Guess what,the art work is even worse. Miller dumped the mascara he painted issue two with and now he is using his fingers dipped in paint. The story is fast-paced and barely coherent. At the end, the final villain is....Robin....the same Robin Batman kept remembering in the original DKR. Except now, the boy wonder is a genetically altered supervillain w/ the ability to heal himself no matter how severe the injury (i.e. at some points he is decapitated, is doused w/ gasoline and burned alive, shot w/ flaming arrows, guns, bombs, etc.) Where did that come from? Feels like Miller just needed to fill pages at the end of the story. At the end, he is defeated by having his head chopped off by Batman and is thrown into a volcano. This book was a total disappointment and does not do the original DKR justice. The art was bad, brainiac looks like a pac-man reject, and what's the deal w/ the big feet on all the characters (I think Miller has a foot fetish) and the story is more about the JLA than Batman. If you didn't read the original DKR, then you might actually enjoy this, but if you read the original, then you will be really disappointed.	2003-03-28
US	32236382	R1U5DQP16OOTI9	1563894696	431283596	Batman: The Long Halloween	Books	4	1	9	N	Y	One of the Best Written Batman stories out there	I RECENTLY PURCHASED LONG HALLOWEEN, MY MAIN REASON BEHIND IT BEING WORD-OF-MOUTH AND THE POSITIVE REVIEWS THAT IT HAD RECEIVED. I AM HAPPY TO SAY THAT I WAS NOT DISSAPPOINTED. THE STORY WAS VERY WELL-WRITTEN AND IN MY OPINION IS ONE OF THE BEST. THE STORY IS GRITTY, MYSTERIOUS (JUST THE WAY BATMAN STORIES SHOULD BE) AND IMMEDIATELY SUCKS YOU INTO THE PLOT. THIS BEING A YEAR ONE STORY, LOEB INDICATES BOTH THE WEAKNESS AND THE STRENGTH OF THE DARK KNIGHT THAT ULTIMATELY COST HIM HIS FRIENDHIP WITH HARVEY DENT. THIS IS ALSO AN ORIGIN STORY OF TWO-FACE, BUT W/ THE FOCUS BEING MAINLY ON HARVEY DENT AND HIS DRIVEN DESIRE TO ERADICATE CRIME. COMMISSIONER GORDON IS ALSO CASUALLY THROWN INTO THE MIX TO SPICE UP THE STORY. THIS STORY ALSO GREATLY HUMANIZES BATMAN, AS WELL AS DENT. YOU ACTUALLY FEEL KINDA SORRY AT THE END OF THE STORY FOR THE POOR GUY. NOW THAT I'VE TALKED ABOUT THE STORY, LET'S GET TO THE ART WORK. TIM SALE DOES A REMARKABLE JOB, HIS STYLE IS A BIT CARTOONY BUT HE STILL KEEPS IT DARK (AS IT SHOULD BE IN A BATMAN STORY). THE ART PERFECTLY COMPLEMENTS THE STORY. ALL INALL, I'D SAY THIS BOOK IS HIGHLY ENJOYABLE AND A MUST HAVE FOR BATMAN-FANS AS WELL AS COMIC BOOK FANS OUT THERE. TRUST ME, YOU WON'T BE DISSAPPOINTED.	2003-03-28
US	32236382	R2RM627VFSMXQ4	0930289560	874348021	Batman: Arkham Asylum	Books	4	2	8	N	Y	GOOD BUT COULD HAVE BEEN BETTER	I JUST BOUGHT &quot;ARKHAM ASYLUM&quot; ALONG W/ &quot;THE LONG HALLOWEEN&quot;. I READ THE ARKHAM ASYLUM AND THOUGHT....WOW....THIS IS UNLIKE ANY OTHER BATMAN STORIES I'VE READ. FIRST OFF, BATMAN IS SHOWN TO BE VERY VULNERABLE AND HUMAN. HE IS STILL DARK BUT THERE IS STILL A BIT OF SELF-DOUBT IN HIM, I.E. &quot;IT WILL BE LIKE COMING HOME&quot;, AS HE RELUCTANTLY DECIDES TO COMPLY W/ THE DEMANDS OF THE INMATES. SECOND, THE JOKER IS AT HIS DEVILISH BEST, HIS DEMENTIA FULL ON MATCHES HIS APPEARANCE. HE DOESN'T EVEN LOOK HUMAN ANYMORE, ADD TO THAT HE REALLY KNOWS WHAT BUTTONS TO PUSH ON BATMAN. AND FINALLY, THE JOURNAL OF AMADEUS ARKHAM. IT WAS A BIT CONFUSING AS TO HOW GRANT MORRISON KEEPS FOCUSING IN THE PAST AND IN THE PRESENT WHILE BATMAN IS RUNNING THE GAUNTLET AND AMADEUS' JOURNAL REMINISCES ABOUT THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE ASYLUM. BUT READ IT CAREFULLY AND THAT CONFUSION WILL FIX ITSELF. AND LAST BUT NOT LEAST IS THE ART WORK, KEEP IN MIND THAT THIS BOOK IS FULLY PAINTED...BUT ALEX ROSS STYLE IT'S NOT. MCKEAN'S WORK IN THIS BOOK PREFECTLY COMPLEMENTS THE STORY, IT IS DARK, GRAPHIC AND SOMETIMES GETS CONFUSING. BUT ONCE AGAIN, IT TOTALLY COMPLEMENTS THE ALMOST SUPERNATURAL STORY. BE AWARE THAT THIS IS NOT RUN OF THE MILL PUNCH AND SLASH COMIC BOOK STORIES, THE VIOLENCE IS THERE AND IS MOSTLY CONVEYED THROUGH MORRISON'S WORDS BUT THIS VIOLENCE IS MUCH DISTURBING THAN THE VIOLENCE CONVEYED IN THE REGULAR SERIES. THE STORY IS GOOD AND MOST WILL ENJOY IT BUT IT FALLS SHORT AND KIND OF FALLS APART AT THE END (BATMAN'S ESCAPE FROM ARKHAM ASYLUM). IT COULD HAVE BEEN EXTENDED A LITTLE MORE TO GIVE A FULLY COMPREHENSIVE COMPLETION. BUT DESPITE ALL THAT THIS BOOK IS HIGLY RECOMMENDED AND HOPEFULLY THE OTHER READERS WILL ENJOY IT AS WELL.	2003-03-25
