US	32326713	RLX7RRPYXMT8Q	086554901X	921865223	Above the Fall Line: The Trail from White Pine Cabin	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Scorpions and lost dogs and bears - oh, my!	I've been shacking up with Amy Blackmarr for several years now, first in a cabin in South Georgia, then a strange house with fifty-two steps out in Kansas. And, more recently, back to another Georgia cabin -- this one in the North Georgia mountains, where it, as Blackmarr writes, \\"sits alone near the crest of a solitary hill in the Yahoola Valley, gathered in among white pines and scarlet oaks, mosses and ferns, mountain laurel and rhododendron.\\"<br /><br />At first it was just the two of us, with Blackmarr vicariously taking me along as she lived like a hermit, forsaking all others, except for her ubiquitous dogs, in her first two books, \\"Going to Ground: Simple Life on a Georgia Pond,\\" and \\"House of Steps: Finding the Path Home.\\" But, when I began reading her third book in this series of essays, \\"Above the Fall Line: The Trail from White Pine Cabin,\\" we became a threesome: a literary menage a trois. That's because when I read some of Blackmarr's eloquent words aloud to my wife, I then had to read the entire book to her -- chapter by chapter. Well, I guess it did seem more proper this time, with my wife along.<br /><br />Reading Amy Blackmarr's trio of flights to temporary dwellings is like peeking inside someone's diaries, sharing not only the richness of her solitude and the glory of her nature hikes, but her intimate thoughts as well. She writes, \\"Three divorces before I turned thirty, not to mention all my other failed romances, had cinched the whole relationship thing for me.\\" And yet she admits to \\"scanning crowds for the long-haired, blue-eyed blond hero who would recognize me the instant he saw me.\\"<br /><br />In each of her books, this modern-day Thoreau encounters creatures large and small, dangerous and otherwise, and in \\"Above the Fall Line,\\" she comes upon scorpions in the shower, snakes in the woods, and even a black bear that seems interested in her spoiled pork roast. Even the simple act of taking out the trash turns into a hilarious episode. The author also deals with the loss of a treasured dog, a graduate school disappointment, and another failed relationship. Though a lot of the book is indeed about loss, Blackmarr is in a constant process of rebirth and reevaluation, where failures are realized simply as \\"trail trees\\" that point to happier hunting grounds, and a sundown is merely a passage to tomorrow's great adventures down pathways, hillsides and streambeds.<br /><br />Her \\"Above the Fall Line\\" ends in 2003 as, she writes, \\"The crows are calling, and the wind is up...\\" So I know she's out there right now, somewhere, living and writing down our next nature quest. You would do well to shack up with Amy Blackmarr -- even if your spouse does insist on tagging along.e. The author also deals with the loss of a treasured dog, a graduate school disappointment, and another failed relationship. Though a lot of the book is indeed about loss, Blackmarr is in a constant process of rebirth and reevaluation, where failures are realized simply as \\"trail trees\\" that point to happier hunting grounds, and a sundown is merely a passage to tomorrow's great adventures down pathways, hillsides and streambeds.  <br /> <br />Her \\"Above the Fall Line\\" ends in 2003 as, she writes, \\"The crows are calling, and the wind is up...\\" So I know she's out there right now, somewhere, living and writing down our next nature quest. You would do well to shack up with Amy Blackmarr -- even if your spouse does insist on tagging along.  <br /> <br />	2005-09-03
US	32326713	RMQM8P7VN93FF	1400033837	785795777	A Thousand Acres: A Novel	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Surprising, Provocative	A Thousand Acres is full of surprises. Jane Smiley shows us how a family, like any other crop, can be corrupted by sins committed on the land. This is the story of a patriarch who sows bad seeds, affecting not only his daughters, but his grandchildren as well. Family secrets, family rivalries, family tragedies are the results. The author skillfully introduces unforseen twists in this plot of land-in-contention. Smiley well deserves the awards it harvested	2004-07-13
US	32326713	RI1X3SPXT28O0	0553574574	956782258	Beach Music	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Excellent, but could have been three books	For a book that curiously begins with an error in the first sentence (the &quot;Silas Pearlman Bridge in Charleston&quot; is really the Silas Pearman Bridge), this is a fine read. Perhaps the change in spelling is literary license. After 500 pages down and 300 to go, I was ready to drive to Charleston and throw the book over the bridge from which Shyla leapt. However, I'm afraid of heights and, since the book was heavy enough to kill a whale if it hit him on the head, I decided to just finish it. It was a richly rewarding experience.<br />Still, I was left with the feeling that I had read three different books rolled into one. The material relating to the holocaust could have been incorporated into one standalone book, the story of Jack and his friends would have made a great vacation read all by itself, and the story of Jack and his family would have been a wonderful third book. Beach Music is a good thing, but maybe too much of a good thing. Anyway, I loved the story but wished the descriptions of food, marshes, cities, sunsets, sunrises, so forth and so on could have been shorter. At 800 pages, even a masterpiece can be laborious. No doubt though, Conroy should never be speed-read, just as Mozart should never be fast-played.	2004-07-13
US	32326713	R3RZJULGS4QWZ3	0805053034	435712613	Father and Son	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Riveting, Exhausting	In Father and Son: A Novel, the star is the villain, the antihero. Instead of hating him for all his dastardly, savage deeds, it's easy to care for him. He is, in a sense, a wayward vehicle, a device gone bad by way of circumstance, killing or crippling anything in its way. Larry Brown weaves a tale of tragedy that leaves the reader exhausted, reflective. After all, how many of us, if we suffered and survived the same boyhood as this criminal, would have emerged with any greater sanity	2004-07-13
US	32326713	RSPNRS9JNL9U7	0688150349	983369645	The Kidnapping of Aaron Greene	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A top-notch whydunit	This may start out as a whodunit, but far more important is the why. Although author Terry Kay has switched to the detective genre here, he still has an eye for social consciousness, a prominent theme in his  previous works. In his book, The Year the Lights Came On, it was  electricity that determined a person's worth. In To Dance With The White  Dog, it was aging that challenged us. In The Runaway, it was race. In The  Kidnapping of Aaron Greene, Kay asks the question: How much is a nobody  worth? And he does it with mystery and suspense, with a little romance thrown in. An enjoyable read.	2004-07-13
US	32326713	RO2UMKWWM0HTQ	0380729040	654863914	The Runaway	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Evokes a difficult time and place	To really appreciate Terry Kay's \\"The Runaway\\" you need to have lived in that time and place -- Georgia, 1949. I did, and I know that Kay has painted it perfectly. I knew those people, remember them well. Before reading the book, I'd read a generally positive review in an Atlanta newspaper, but one that said the book was \\"overpopulated with stereotypes.\\" What I found was a true portrait of people and place. Like all Southern towns of that period, conformity was enforced at least by social code, if not by law; it would be hard to write a truthful story and not have characters who seem stereotyped. It was a stereotypical period when change required daring, and the soldiers returning from war came home to fill the bill. They'd taken on a sense of purpose: defending human liberty and dignity. Terry Kay tells us that these are the forgotten heroes, the Southern ex-soldiers who stood up and said to their neighbors, straighten up and play right. They faced as much danger, if not more, than when they'd faced the German Nazis, just by saying, \\"Why don't you leave him alone? What did he do to you?\\" I said that to three white men one night, when they were picking on a young black man, and I barely escaped with my life. Of course, that was in 1963, and it was a far more dangerous thing to do in 1949, Kay's scenario in The Runaway. It was men like Sheriff Frank Rucker who led the way, who showed us how to speak up for another man's dignity, even when it wasn't safe. Kay's people may be fictional, but they had counterparts in real life. Stereotypes? Hardly.<br />Of course, Terry Kay's writing is moving, nearly ethereal in places, as usual. I was also impressed with how many phrases he was able to use from the dialect of the time: \\"naked as a jaybird,\\" \\"a fart in a windstorm.\\" He's a master. So we can forgive him the line on page 381: \\"Getting out of his car, Hugh walked over to Fuller.\\" Even the greats are allowed one of those now and then.	2004-07-13
US	32326713	R3DJKJZUP9OPYA	189195430X	880784907	The Sand Crabs	Books	3	0	0	N	N	A Final Battle of World War II	Retired businessman Donald Foster settles into his island paradise, believing tranquility is his destiny. But then he recognizes an old enemy -- his Japanese torturer -- and the two of them consummate a tale of hatred  and adversity that began half a century earlier. For these two old men, now  warriors again, the last battle of World War II would be personal, and  fought amid the sand crabs of Vaka Malua. This would make an excellent movie, with William Shatner and George Takei as the two combatants.	2004-07-13
US	32326713	R27IK6WQYNEQYL	0671892606	483520425	Shadow Song: A Novel	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Makes you hear the voice of the music	Terry Kay has the ability to make you hear the music of an old dreamer,  and make it your own. He can also make you believe in ghosts, and makes you  want to welcome them home. Though briefly told, this story encompasses most  of our century: from an opera house in 1918, to young love in 1955, and  then on to matured love in 1993. I first heard of this book at a Terry Kay  book-signing last fall, where I had him sign The Runaway, his latest, and  To Dance with the White Dog, his best known. In the long line of waiting  admirers (it took me three hours), some of them kept saying that Shadow  Song was their favorite book by Kay. Strangely, they would close their  eyes, as though they were listening to something. Now that I've finished  the book, I understand. I also recommend to anyone planning to read this  book that they acquire a recording of the &quot;Ombra leggiera&quot;  (Shadow Song) from Giacomo Meyerbeer's &quot;Dinorah&quot; and listen to it  before they begin reading. And then listen to it again WHILE reading the  final scene. It is a remarkable experience. My CD version features the  great Maria Callas. However, to make the experience authentic, I may look  for a recording by Amelita Galli-Curci. I know that that old Jew, Avrum  Feldman, would have it no other way. Come to think of it, I might even pick  up a couple of candlesticks and pull out an old picture of a long-lost  love. That would really make him happy. I can hear him now, urging from his  bench, &quot;Go, Go.&quot;	2004-07-13
US	32326713	R2N03964IHP8Z0	0060928573	164346938	Good Evening Mr. and Mrs. America, and All the Ships at Sea: Novel, A	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A Sentimental Journey into the Past	Good Evening Mr. and Mrs. America, and All the Ships at Sea was a joyous romp in the past, when people -- especially the young -- still had ideals. The age of innocence was already over, but the hero of this novel just didn't know it yet. But he would find out, painfully; and when he does, he opts for an ironic way-to-forget change of plans. Read Bausch's coming-of-age tale for the pure entertainment of it, but when you finish laughing, quietly consider what it says of our nation's changed morality. Perhaps those of us who lived through it wonder: were we really just naive, or were we better then than what we became? P.S.: This would make a great movie!	2004-07-13
US	32326713	R14WACO6223XTY	1561450022	972577972	To Dance With the White Dog	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Mysterious dog helps old man face final years	Funny, bittersweet, mysterious, sad. This book will be considered a classic in American literature. Should be read by anyone who expects to grow old. May each of us have a white dog to help us along.	2004-07-13
US	32326713	R3LVC5G61IHO00	0609603116	7078798	Let's Get It On: Tough Talk from Boxing's Top Ref and Nevada's Most Outspoken Judge	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Tells it like it is	On page 216, Mills Lane says of his wife, &quot;She knew that I am consumed by my job, referee prizefights as a hobby, and am hardheaded and highly opinionated.&quot; Is he ever! And that is what makes this book so  refreshing. Here is a man who says we are all responsible for our own  actions. Imagine that. Judge Mills Lane and writer Jedwin Smith have  combined their experience and talents to give us a glimpse of a human being  we see all too rarely: a man of great honor. By the time you finish this  book, you will know who puts the grit in integrity.	2004-07-13
US	32326713	R1RS3HQI7QRWMY	0679745203	152918541	The English Patient	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Sensuous, in more ways than one	The English Patient is not for everyone, only for people who want to drown themselves in an opus of words. It is a love story, but it's about the love of desert solitude, of great art and sculpture and literature, of history, of defusing bombs, of stealing artfully, of caring for the dying, of old monasteries, of peoples and tribes and cultures, of passions, and, most of all, of friendship -- and about how love is destroyed by war, nationalism, conventions, and the madness of jealousy	2004-07-13
US	32326713	RAXR9UCBUENQP	0820311286	371689869	The Year the Lights Came on (Brown Thrasher Books)	Books	5	15	16	N	N	A Kay '47 Loaded with True Memories	A must-read for anyone who grew up in Georgia during the 1940s or '50s,  especially those of us who remember the day the REA (Rural Electrification  Administration) hooked us up and turned us on. Life changed dramatically.  If you're not old enough to remember those days, let Terry Kay show you  what they were like. This book -- as usual in a Kay opus -- is hilarious at  turns, tender and sad at others. Kay is a master chef at blending a  bittersweet brew of young love, class consciousness and changing times.  Don't deprive yourself of a look at this fine early work, which was first  published in 1976 -- before Kay established himself as one of our great  Southern writers with the novel, &quot;To Dance with the White Dog.&quot;	2004-07-12
US	32326713	R3NT6J4IA2FU6	0440222656	691733737	The Horse Whisperer	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Satisfying Modern Western	Girl and horse, both with internal and external scars, get help from a cowboy horse-doctor with an unusual hayside manner. Cowboy and girl's mother fall in love and dally around, even though she's still married --  kind of a Bridges of Madison County on horseback. All this inevitably leads  to tragedy, which is what a good moral-corral story is all about. And  author Nicholas Evans makes it all worthwhile with unequaled foreshadowing  that makes you want to turn the pages harder, and descriptions of western  scenes that make you want to saddle up and ride the range. No wonder they  made a movie of it, but this story doesn't have a Hollywood ending. Which  is a good reason in itself to read this version, so you won't miss the  big surprise; even in tragedy, there is renewed hope.	2004-07-12
US	32326713	R1DVOBYBNNLT99	157131234X	671611176	Ecology of a Cracker Childhood	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Good blend of characters, critters, and trees	With &quot;Ecology of a Cracker Childhood,&quot; Janisse Ray has reminded me of what it was like to grow up in South Georgia. Being from south of Hazlehurst, I know our childhood homes were less than 15 miles apart. But  her junkyard near Baxley was a far different experience from my life on the  farm. Still, I know what it's like to fall in love with trees and want to  preserve them. And all those characters she had to put up with, I know them  too -- or people much like them. Readers of Amy Blackmarr, another South  Georgia writer who lives closely with nature, will love reading Janisse  Ray, whose greatest thrill about the forest is &quot;how the pine trees  sing...This music cannot be heard anywhere else on the earth.&quot; Indeed,  it can't.	2004-07-12
US	32326713	R2FYCSQZJRYFB8	0140266925	308943978	Going to Ground: Simple Life on a Georgia Pond	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Nice place to sit back and relax	Young South Georgia woman gets off the fast train, returns to family's shack by the pond, then delivers us a way to enjoy her experiences and reflections. The sparce prose of Amy Blackmarr lets you sit back and relax  awhile. You'll also enjoy the sequel, House of Steps, where she moves to a  peculiar little house out in Kansas. Her outlook on life is quite  refreshing. Both books are short, too, so they're great for summer trips to  the beach, or weekends out in the backyard.	2004-07-12
US	32326713	RRPHB7AA3BUTQ	0440224624	117143822	The Loop	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Entertaining Morality Tale	Young woman, and an even younger man, strive to save a pack of wolves from angry ranchers while trying to overcome their own personal doubts and shortcomings. When they turn to each other for love, it threathens their  mission. In &quot;The Horse Whisperer,&quot; author Nicholas Evans showed how wounded people and animals can help each other. Now he's done it again in &quot;The Loop.&quot; In both works, he proves to be a master in foreshadowing events, thereby creating masterful page-turners. But, while  tension builds with each page in &quot;The Loop,&quot; at its heart this  work is a study of our humanity. Though the wolf can be a dangerous  creature, when does man become the greater monster? As for the title, does  it refer to the &quot;circle&quot; of life described by Black Elk in the  front of the book? Or does it only represent the device of a cruel, haunted character named J.J.Lovelace, who kills entire families of wolves when the  price is right? Part of the satisfaction is deciding for yourself. If you  want forbidden love, betrayals, human conflicts, tragic loss, and a tale  that makes you question your own level of humanity, then this is the book for you.	2004-07-12
US	32326713	R3IKQ3OC1HIEDD	0865549125	226556070	HOUSE OF STEPS	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Nice place for an adventure	The last time we saw Amy Blackmarr (in the fine &quot;Going to Ground: Simple Life on a Georgia Pond&quot;), she had been forced to give up her pondering on the pond and was headed to the North Georgia mountains.  However, she somehow got derailed and wound up in a peculiar little house  in Kansas. No problem, in her newest work, &quot;House of Steps: Finding  the Path Home,&quot; she still finds plenty of adventures to share with us,  including some from her past life. And her reflections on life, love,  family and nature are as sharp as ever. As she did on the pond, Amy still  finds snakes and other interesting creatures to deal with, and some of the  people are pretty wild too. She even wins the battle of the mailbox, sort  of. Either of her books is just the right length for a trip to the beach,  or a few hours in the backyard. One more thought: If you like these books,  you should also try &quot;Ecology of a Cracker Childhood&quot; by Janisse  Ray, another South Georgia woman with a heart for nature.	2004-07-12
US	32326713	R18FPR05G84C81	006017613X	495185639	Nora, Nora: A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Shame on you Nora, and keep it up	Take a somber seventh-grade tomboy on the edge of womanhood, a sullen father living mostly in his own sad little world, a weird grandmother who tells crows to go tell it to the devil, a pompous aunt who disdains anyone  but the uppercrust, a black maid who makes scrumptious apple butter and  tosses advice as quick as a salad, a motherless clubfooted black child, a  church sexton and grave tender who reads classic books and listens to  classical music, add in an assortment of other strange folks, then toss  them all into a small town not far from Atlanta in early 1960's  about-to-be-integrated Georgia, and you've got an interesting brew. Even  better, add a spicy ingredient, such as an outspoken, tell-it-like-it-is,  yellow-green eyed redhead named Nora, and you've got a hot new book from  Anne Rivers Siddons. When cousin Nora rides into town in her 1955 pink  Thunderbird, she cuts through both the melancholy and prejudice of  smalltown Southern life, touching everybody in town in some way, especially  her young tomboy cousin, Peyton McKenzie. But, in spite of her wild and  wonderful powers, Nora brings with her a volatile secret, one that could  destroy all that she's accomplished, and all she may want. \\"Nora,  Nora\\" is a character-driven coming-of-age tale that satisfies.	2004-07-11
US	32326713	R3OOSWC8P9MFUF	0688176461	689464896	Taking Lottie Home: A Novel	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Hauntingly Beautiful	Some books, as well as characters, can haunt you for days, maybe years, after the reading is done. \\"Taking Lottie Home\\" is such a book. And Lottie Lanier is just such a character: part girl, part woman, and all too giving, with eyes no one ever forgets. So, too, is the character Ben Phelps, the young would-be dream-catcher, who catches the ball but only worships the dream, living it vicariously through the faraway exploits of the intangible, aloof Milo Wade. And there's Foster Lanier, who tastes the dream, only to see it turn bitter before finding his final, brief comfort in the arms of Lottie. Then there is Arthur Ledford, a lonely, tormented, fair but angry man, whose role in Lottie's life turns out to be nearly as surprising as Lottie herself. Even the minor characters are hard to forget: Ben's mother, Margaret Phelps, who clings to Lottie's child, little Ben; Ben's fiancee, Sally, who sees Lottie as the greatest threat to her happiness; Arthur's wife, Alice, a cold, hateful woman who seems to believe all women should be miserable by nature; Coleman Maxey, a pain-in-the-butt redneck troublemaker, and an assortment of other town characters who are either enthralled by Lottie or unnerved by her. There is also the strangest alliance of carnival bad guys ever to appear in a Kay novel: a one-armed giant and a midget. Lottie's story takes place in early 1900's Georgia and Kentucky, when it was still the train that took people to faraway places. It, too, could be considered a character in this story, as could the town of Jerico, which sounds a lot like long ago Royston, Georgia, just as Milo Wade sounds a lot like the baseball great Ty Cobb.<br />Two great contemporary Southern writers are Terry Kay and Pat Conroy. It struck me, while reading this book, that the two men are interesting contrasts, especially regarding the way they write about the South. It reminds me of two men I once heard trying to describe the taste of a persimmon. Both liked the taste, but one said it was bitter, with a little sweet in it; the other said it was more sweet than bitter. For bittersweet stories about the South, it's hard to beat Conroy or Kay. And \\"Taking Lottie Home\\" is a sweet story, with just the right amount of bitter. It's the kind of story that stays with you for a long, long time.it was bitter, with a little sweet in it; the other said it was more sweet than bitter. For bittersweet stories about the South, it's hard to beat Conroy or Kay. And \\"Taking Lottie Home\\" is a sweet story, with just the right amount of bitter. It's the kind of story that stays with you for a long, long time.	2004-07-11
US	32326713	RQ2NY5M3OJHFJ	1891954164	945870597	Moonlight Bowl Manifesto: A Cure for California	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Satirical Romp	In &quot;Moonlight Bowl Manifesto: A Cure for California,&quot; Barbara Jones has fashioned a wild satirical romp over social and political correctness. When a member of a bowling team comes up with an instant wood-eating formula, the bowlers hold hostage an auditorium filled with famous people by threatening to destroy a forest, particularly a famous tree called General Sherman. The book is filled with memorable characters, such as a woman who believes her pig is the reincarnation of her dead husband, and a lawyer who has to share her body with Margaret Mitchell and a hippie. Among the other strange folks is a celebrity who has to take medication to lighten his skin and maintain his feminine characteristics, until his privileges are taken away and strange things begin to happen to his mind and body. A fun read, one that won the 2000 Georgia Author of the Year Award for First Novel.	2004-07-11
US	32326713	R3ONK4NW6CSU33	1892514699	360224760	Special Kay: The Wisdom of Terry Kay	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Fine Ruminations from an &quot;ordinary&quot; man	The words &quot;ruminations&quot; and &quot;vignettes&quot; may sound pretentious, but &quot;rumination&quot; works well here -- not for its first meaning, but for the second; which is, &quot;The act or process of chewing cud,&quot; according to the American Heritage Dictionary, fourth edition. No one chews the cud better than Terry Kay. And a &quot;vignette&quot; (pronounced vin-yet) comes from the French word for vine and relates to the little vine tendrils that often decorate literary works. That's what &quot;Special Kay&quot; is: a book filled with cud-chewing at its finest, with little stories culled from a fruitful life, like vinelets pruned off a master stem.<br />Kay's greatest strength is that he has never lost the capacity -- or courage -- to be ordinary. Because of that, we can all relate to his experiences, and his opinions. He is down to earth when talking about a wagonload of subjects: The fear of losing a child to an illness. The heat of a lay-by plowing that could leave a mule drenched in white lather. The humiliation of playing quarterback when the center breaks wind &quot;like a hurricane hitting Florida&quot; -- loud enough to echo &quot;off the corn stalks&quot; and smelly enough to kill &quot;gnats and mosquitoes on the fly.&quot;<br />A former movie critic, Terry Kay has consorted with celebrities. Thank God, he has never become one. He IS a Special Kay.	2004-07-10
US	32326713	R2FD4AYLUJWKUQ	0140107479	292088234	The Transit of Venus	Books	5	234	250	N	N	A transit worth taking	So why on earth would anyone want to read The Transit of Venus? Some say the writing is pretentious: Supercalifragilisticexpialidocious. That word came to mind last year while I was reading Shirley Hazzard's 2003 National Book Award winner, The Great Fire. Yet I couldn't stop reading. Since I wound up loving that book, I decided to try this one, which won the National Book Critics Circle Award more than two decades ago (1980). Midway through my reading transit, on June 8, 2004, a Transit of Venus occurred, the tiny planet moving like a dot across our gigantic sun. (In 1769, James Cook set sail in the H.M.S. Endeavor to study a Transit of Venus and found Australia, hence the tie-in with this novel, which is primarily an Australian woman's transit through love and life.)<br />Reading Shirley Hazzard is like climbing a mountain, agonizing over the rocks and rarified air during the long, arduous uphill climb. Struggle is not the same as suffer. Most modern books are downhill sloped, where the reader floats or speeds effortlessly toward a simplistic conclusion. A Hazzard novel is more vertically inclined, where one needs to stop on occasion to catch a breath, and then, when the climax comes, you are on a mountaintop, not the valley floor. It is not a transit intended for aliterates, much less illiterates. Hazzard might not be the author for you if you don't know, and don't care about, the meaning of words like \\"impercipience\\" and \\"abnegation.\\" Also, if you're less than thrilled with such lines as \\"Magnanimity shaped a sad and vast perspective,\\" and \\"My task, as I see it, is to adumbrate the sources of his entelechy,\\" then you might want to move along to another bookshelf.<br />However, if you want to read one of the finest novels ever written, grab a dictionary, take your time and don't miss a single clue in The Transit of Venus, such as the one embedded insignificantly in the middle of the first page. The importance of which is revealed only near the end of the novel. Hazzard does that to you; if she tells you, almost as an aside, that a trivial character is going to die one day soon, it could later on grab you by the gut that the mention was a portent of an even greater tragedy.<br />Although The Transit of Venus is populated by several interesting characters, and is propelled by their sexual liaisons, the central story concerns the trio of Caroline (Caro) Bell, Ted Tice, and Paul Ivory and the mystery that directs, and warps, their relationship even into middle age. We're told right off that \\"Edmund Tice would take his own life...in a northern city, and not for many years.\\" The book never explains why, and does not need to, once the reading is done.<br />In the beginning, Caro, \\"established as a child of Venus,\\" has come to England from Australia, along with her sister, Grace. Both sisters, orphans, are beautiful. While the \\"fair\\" Grace settles for a wealthy but unsatisfying married life, dark-haired Caro works for a time as a shopgirl and dallies with strategically-married Paul the gorgeous playwright, while Ted the astronomer can only simmer and settle for Caro's enduring friendship. When Caro marries a wealthy New Yorker, it seemingly dashes any hopes Ted may have for finally winning Caro's love. But in Caro's transit through life, such stability is not destined to last, and perhaps Ted has one last chance to possess the woman of his dreams.<br />As they move through the Fifties, Sixties and Seventies, we see a lot of the other characters, including Grace and Caro's half-sister, Dora, who seems to revel in misery, and Grace's husband, Christian Thrale, a government bureaucrat. Though interesting and well defined, these characters, and others, are largely irrelevant to the main plot, and I found whole chapters on them to be side rails that simply divert the reader temporarily off the central track. This does not mean the reading is not worthwhile; these diversions establish depth of character, and character exposition is one of Hazzard's strong points. A couple of my favorite lines compare a woman to her car parked outside: \\"Circular lamps, set over the mudguards, were glassily unlit like Tertia's eyes... Outside the window the car was kinder because suggestive of fluency and eventual animation.\\" A cold woman, for sure.<br />Nevertheless, it is the Caro-Ted-Paul saga that leads to a revelation worthy, perhaps, of M. Night Shyamalan, and a \\"Sixth Sense\\" type of turnabout, one that makes you realize things are not quite what they seem. And it shifts the novel from a complex love story into another genre altogether. Any reader who fails to read the final three chapters misses out on the great reward; and to appreciate those chapters, you must read all the others related to these three main characters. Ironically, it is Ted, with his one disfigured eye, who is the most clear-eyed of them all when he thinks, \\"...the tragedy isn't that love doesn't last. The tragedy is the love that lasts.\\" He also observes, \\"Even through a telescope, some people see what they choose to see. Just as they do with the unassisted eye... Nothing supplies the truth except the will for it.\\" And with these sentiments, he opens up the novel's heart.<br />With so many one-or-more-books-per-year \\"celebrity author\\" tomes now afloat in the sea of modern publishing, where the term \\"author\\" too often takes the secondary dictionary meaning, \\"one who assumes responsibility for the content of a published text\\" (meaning, not the actual writer), isn't it of value to strive through a work that has the feel of complex authenticity? Here, in The Transit of Venus, we can be fairly certain this is the genuine voice of Shirley Hazzard. Isn't it worth the price of admission to read not just a rare and beautiful voice, but a true and honest one as well?<br />Take the Transit.ne of Hazzard's strong points. A couple of my favorite lines compare a woman to her car parked outside: \\"Circular lamps, set over the mudguards, were glassily unlit like Tertia's eyes... Outside the window the car was kinder because suggestive of fluency and eventual animation.\\" A cold woman, for sure. <br />Nevertheless, it is the Caro-Ted-Paul saga that leads to a revelation worthy, perhaps, of M. Night Shyamalan, and a \\"Sixth Sense\\" type of turnabout, one that makes you realize things are not quite what they seem. And it shifts the novel from a complex love story into another genre altogether. Any reader who fails to read the final three chapters misses out on the great reward; and to appreciate those chapters, you must read all the others related to these three main characters. Ironically, it is Ted, with his one disfigured eye, who is the most clear-eyed of them all when he thinks, \\"...the tragedy isn't that love doesn't last. The tragedy is the love that lasts.\\" He also observes, \\"Even through a telescope, some people see what they choose to see. Just as they do with the unassisted eye... Nothing supplies the truth except the will for it.\\" And with these sentiments, he opens up the novel's heart. <br />With so many one-or-more-books-per-year \\"celebrity author\\" tomes now afloat in the sea of modern publishing, where the term \\"author\\" too often takes the secondary dictionary meaning, \\"one who assumes responsibility for the content of a published text\\" (meaning, not the actual writer), isn't it of value to strive through a work that has the feel of complex authenticity? Here, in The Transit of Venus, we can be fairly certain this is the genuine voice of Shirley Hazzard. Isn't it worth the price of admission to read not just a rare and beautiful voice, but a true and honest one as well? <br />Take the Transit.	2004-06-21
US	32326713	R24JSYNDNULDF4	0385503857	264457638	Oryx and Crake: A Novel (Atwood, Margaret Eleanor)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Worthy successor to Frankenstein	Margaret Atwood's prophetic Oryx and Crake is terrifying, a nightmare that could become morning's reality. People are comparing Atwood here to George Orwell and Aldous Huxley, and Oryx and Crake to The Time Machine, Brave New World, and 1984. While it does hold kinship with these works, Oryx and Crake is more of a noble descendant of Mary Shelley's gothic classic, Frankenstein, the romantic thriller published in 1818. For instance, consider the following line from a Frankenstein review: &quot;...it is a subversive and morbid story warning against the dehumanization of art and the corrupting influence of science. Packed with allusions and literary references, it is also one of the best thrillers ever written.&quot; That same line easily applies to Oryx and Crake. (The real horror here is that Vernon God Little won the Booker Prize the same year that Oryx and Crake was a short-listed runner-up.)<br />Like Dr. Victor Frankenstein, the supergenius known as Crake wants to develop a superior human being. But whereas Frankenstein was limited to using electricity, and developed a man who looked like, and was treated like, a monster, Crake has the biotech world of our not so distant tomorrow, so he genetically engineers not just one but a whole tribe of superior beings in his Paradice Project. (Only one example of the many cleverly misspelled terms used in this dark, often humorous novel). Called Crakers, this green-eyed new species of man, which comes in assorted skin colors, is capable of warding off diseases, and incapable of human frailties, such as jealousy and violence. Crake is not the scientist's real name, only one borrowed from a computer game in which the players use names of extinct species, such as Oryx, the name of the woman loved by both Crake and Snowman, our narrator.<br />As the story opens, Snowman, possibly the last human alive, sleeps in trees at night and forages through the ruins of humanity during the day. He tries to survive not only for himself, but also for the Crakers, for whom he is now the caretaker. Snowman was known as Jimmy, and we get to know Jimmy, as well as Crake and Oryx, through Snowman's flashbacks to their youthful past. Their past is our near future, one in which brilliant scientists live and work in sterile Compounds, while the rest of humanity lives in the disease-ridden Pleeblands (where the suburbs and malls are). In the business-oriented Compounds they know how to cure diseases, but to stay in business, they need to create new illnesses; there is no profit in good health. In other words, you need to create a virus so that you can sell your next anti-virus product (much like some software firms have been accused of doing in today's world). At the same time, some companies are creating superior watchdogs, called Wolvogs, and there are also the Pigoons, very large hogs that supply human body parts. So we have many Frankensteins in the future, giving us monsters of all kinds, for, when released, the Wolvogs and Pigoons find humans to be tasty morsels. Poetic justice, perhaps?<br />My favorite line is on page 205 when Jimmy finds out about the Wolvogs: &quot;What if they get out? Go on the rampage? Start breeding, then the population goes out of control - like those big green rabbits?&quot; Then on the next page he asks himself: &quot;How much is too much, how far is too far?&quot; And therein is the heart of the book.<br />In structuring the novel, the author was clever in giving Snowman/Jimmy two names; Snowman is in the present, Jimmy in the past. When the reader sees the name Jimmy, you know you are in a flashback, and vice versa. Of course, Atwood is one of the best at segueing into different places and time periods, as she did in the Booker Prize winning The Blind Assassin (2000). As you read, you see Jimmy age from child to adult, while, as Snowman, he tries to survive a world of multiplying terrors. The first half of the book is interesting and suspenseful, as Atwood unfolds the back-story and provides the necessary technicalities. Then when she has Snowman revisit the scene of the crime (the greatest murder in human history), the book turns into an edge-of-your-seat thriller, with the razor-sharp tusks of a pack of Pigoons literally snapping at the hero's heels. As a former farm boy who used to have nightmares about our large hogs ripping me apart, these scenes had me sweating a bit.<br />Not all mysteries are solved, only the major ones, leaving us to ponder the whys of Crake's insane actions, and the fate of the new beings. And not until the end do we find out why Jimmy, a non-numbers person, has survived. &quot;My name is Snowman...&quot; he tells the Crakers. &quot;...I come from the place of Oryx and Crake.&quot; It is a place I will never forget, partly because Atwood has made it so real, but also because I know it is all quite possible. Our Frankensteins are already hard at work in their labs.k-story and provides the necessary technicalities. Then when she has Snowman revisit the scene of the crime (the greatest murder in human history), the book turns into an edge-of-your-seat thriller, with the razor-sharp tusks of a pack of Pigoons literally snapping at the hero's heels. As a former farm boy who used to have nightmares about our large hogs ripping me apart, these scenes had me sweating a bit. <br />Not all mysteries are solved, only the major ones, leaving us to ponder the whys of Crake's insane actions, and the fate of the new beings. And not until the end do we find out why Jimmy, a non-numbers person, has survived. &quot;My name is Snowman...&quot; he tells the Crakers. &quot;...I come from the place of Oryx and Crake.&quot; It is a place I will never forget, partly because Atwood has made it so real, but also because I know it is all quite possible. Our Frankensteins are already hard at work in their labs.	2004-05-03
US	32326713	R2KV4RVB0MTXSX	1400042070	669988222	The Amateur Marriage: A Novel	Books	5	7	8	N	N	A Rough, Rewarding Walk Down Memory Lane	The Amateur Marriage reads more like an autopsy than a novel, a postmortem analysis of the chronological demise of a marriage. From the moment they meet, we know the union of Michael Anton and Pauline Barclay is not going to go well. He's quiet, reserved, and serious; she's loud, gregarious, and flighty; oil and water. She snips, he snarls; but boy, isn't the sex good after a good ole verbal knockdown, drag-out! And that is the crux of the first five chapters, roughly half the book: two people trapped inside the crucible of a seething, though occasionally sultry, marriage.<br />For someone who has experienced divorce firsthand, both from the child and adult viewpoints, I was uncomfortable with this book at first, and almost put it down; the bickering seemed much too familiar. But Anne Tyler's writing is attractive, and I held in there. At least the sparring is only verbal, and not physically abusive. Which in some ways makes the dissolution much sadder; even past middle age, he's handsome, she's beautiful; he's thin as ever, she's still shapely; so why not make loving comments, instead of accusations and torrents of blame? Ah, but they are opposites, and while opposites attract, they also attack.<br />Structurally, though there are various flashbacks and moments of reflection, the novel is mostly linear, and the book could have been divided into chapters labeled Forties, Fifties, Sixties, Seventies, Eighties, Nineties, and 2002. After starting with an omniscient (or community) viewpoint, which reflects the first chapter's theme of common knowledge (\\"Anyone in the neighborhood could tell you\\"; \\"Everyone said later that\\"), most of the following chapters are divided by personal viewpoint, his and hers, like angry towels hung over the decades. Even daughter Karen and son George have chapters devoted to their take on specific time periods. What is sadly missing is a chapter inside the head of Lindy, the oldest daughter, who decides the safe thing to do is just fade away, giving the novel perhaps its greatest mystery; now, that would have been a trip!<br />Every novel, we are told, should have a protagonist and an antagonist, but here the main characters take turns being both. Perhaps the hero of this story is love and marriage and the villain is hate and divorce. Halfway through I was ready to shoot both parents and toss the oldest child over a cliff. Then, miraculously, I began to care for them all, very much. And when the reading was done, I missed them: the truest sign of a fine novel.<br />By mid-point, I figured this was a three-star book. Two-thirds of the way through, I thought maybe four. By the time I read the final, heart-wrenching lines, I realized this was not just a story of two people, or even a single family; it reflects American life since World War II: a walk down memory lane, for many of us. The scope is broad, the effect long lasting. If personal enrichment is a genre, then this is where The Amateur Marriage fits. I would recommend this book, but in the same way I would recommend a skillful dentist: it isn't always entertaining, but it's probably good for you; and, if you're young and yet single, it may keep you from having cavities of the heart.giving the novel perhaps its greatest mystery; now, that would have been a trip!<br />Every novel, we are told, should have a protagonist and an antagonist, but here the main characters take turns being both. Perhaps the hero of this story is love and marriage and the villain is hate and divorce. Halfway through I was ready to shoot both parents and toss the oldest child over a cliff. Then, miraculously, I began to care for them all, very much. And when the reading was done, I missed them: the truest sign of a fine novel.<br />By mid-point, I figured this was a three-star book. Two-thirds of the way through, I thought maybe four. By the time I read the final, heart-wrenching lines, I realized this was not just a story of two people, or even a single family; it reflects American life since World War II: a walk down memory lane, for many of us. The scope is broad, the effect long lasting. If personal enrichment is a genre, then this is where The Amateur Marriage fits. I would recommend this book, but in the same way I would recommend a skillful dentist: it isn't always entertaining, but it's probably good for you; and, if you're young and yet single, it may keep you from having cavities of the heart.	2004-04-02
US	32326713	RKA81LTLUSZ55	0142001740	378345448	The Secret Life of Bees	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Fine writing, realistic story	The Secret Life of Bees is one of the most satisfying books I have ever read. And I found it realistic, reflecting a region, the South, and a time, the mid-1960s, with fine accuracy. I was surprised at some of the previous customer reviews, especially those people who said they could not believe the characters or actions. What planet were these people living on, if they were indeed around at that time? I was a senior in college during this year, 1964, and I know by fact of experience that the actions portrayed in this book are dead-on. Some reviewers here questioned the actions of the young black men in the book, such as throwing a bottle at a white man. Well, I saw an angry black teenager knock an elderly white woman off the sidewalk and into the street. I also was alone in a laundromat late at night when a black teenager ran in begging for my help because he was being abused by three drunken white men, who came in and roughed him up in front of me before he was able to escape. Therefore, I do not doubt any events portrayed in this book.<br />As for the characters, while I was growing up in South Georgia during the 40s and 50s, I knew African-American women much like the ones portrayed here. I have no doubt that many of them would have been as willing as August and May to help a young white girl in need. And I have no doubt some would have reacted to her the way June did at first, with misgivings. I certainly knew a few T.Rays along the way. I found all the characters to be legitimate and realistic. Some reviewers questioned the worship use of a Black Madonna, not taking into account the rich diversity of religious experience in Southern cultures. A major emphasis of the book is finding spiritual strength wherever you can, whether through a makeshift wailing wall, or the converted masthead of a sailing ship.<br /><br />But the book is mainly about the needs and strengths of sisterhood, and about mothers and daughters, and I put it in the same category with Divine Secrets of the Ya-Ya Sisterhood and Steel Magnolias. (Yes, this story is tailor-made for movie time.) Sue Monk Kidd's writing is fabulous, perfectly evoking even the slightest nuances of time and place, and dripping with the essence of both honey and grits - though daddy T.Ray does have a unique use for the latter. T.Ray is the sort of man whose only kindness is for his bird dog, and when our fourteen-year-old heroine tells us, &quot;I've seen Snout pee on T.Ray's boot and it not get a rise out of him,&quot; we know this is a girl who seriously needs to find a mother. Which she does, in a remarkable way.rets of the Ya-Ya Sisterhood and Steel Magnolias. (Yes, this story is tailor-made for movie time.) Sue Monk Kidd's writing is fabulous, perfectly evoking even the slightest nuances of time and place, and dripping with the essence of both honey and grits - though daddy T.Ray does have a unique use for the latter. T.Ray is the sort of man whose only kindness is for his bird dog, and when our fourteen-year-old heroine tells us, &quot;I've seen Snout pee on T.Ray's boot and it not get a rise out of him,&quot; we know this is a girl who seriously needs to find a mother. Which she does, in a remarkable way.	2004-03-03
US	32326713	R1JAZUCHJB40QO	0385720955	850910906	The Blind Assassin: A Novel	Books	5	24	28	N	N	A BIG pleasure; relax and savor the words	I kept putting off reading this book; at 521 pages, \\"The Blind Assassin\\" can be intimidating for time-challenged readers. Finally, I read a few pages and was captivated by the writing. Time is relative, so I decided to relax and enjoy it, word for word, no skimming unimportant descriptive passages. Sometimes when pushed for time, I would read only a page, or even only a paragraph or two. And isn't this why we read books like this: literature, where we can savor the writing, as well as the story? For example, this is a book in which the protagonist, as an elderly woman, takes time to contemplate the paradox of doughnut holes (page 310), and wonders if they can be used to demonstrate the existence of God. \\"Does naming a sphere of nothingness transmute it into being?\\" Not a critical element of the story, but definitely an enrichment. Thank the literary gods we have authors who can write this way -- and are still allowed to.<br />I bought the book because it is a Booker Prize winner, which it truly deserves (as opposed to that dreadful \\"Vernon God Little\\" which won last year). This was my first Margaret Atwood book, so I was surprised at the poetic language, unaware that several volumes of her poetry have been published. On page 43 I knew I was in for a pleasant ride when I read this passage:<br />\\"For whom am I writing this? For myself? I think not.... Perhaps I write for no one. Perhaps for the same person children are writing for, when they scrawl their names in the snow.\\"<br />There is the true beauty of this book, even more than its clever structure and challenging mysteries. Still, the structure is definitely a work of art: a story within a story within a story, like a Russian nesting doll, and with news clips and even letters tossed in occasionally as clues and atmosphere enhancers. With old, arthritic fingers, Canadian octogenarian Iris Chase Griffen is writing down the history of her family and its disasters, highlighted by the death of her sister Laura who \\"drove a car off a bridge\\" in 1945. Meanwhile intervening chapters are devoted to Laura's published novel, \\"The Blind Assassin,\\" which is a parallel story in which clandestine lovers meet for sex, cigarettes, sousing, and science-fiction story-telling. The man, who is on the run for his life, continues to make up the science fiction story at each rendezvous. All three stories eventually merge, either literally or metaphorically. The result is a major achievement, and I was left wondering how many hours did this author spend bringing together three plots in such a beautiful, seamless fashion. Though the book is long, I now wish it was longer. (Maybe Atwood will work up a sequel, bringing us the story of the survivor.) Meanwhile, read it. Don't rush. Savor the words.\\"drove a car off a bridge\\" in 1945. Meanwhile intervening chapters are devoted to Laura's published novel, \\"The Blind Assassin,\\" which is a parallel story in which clandestine lovers meet for sex, cigarettes, sousing, and science-fiction story-telling. The man, who is on the run for his life, continues to make up the science fiction story at each rendezvous. All three stories eventually merge, either literally or metaphorically. The result is a major achievement, and I was left wondering how many hours did this author spend bringing together three plots in such a beautiful, seamless fashion. Though the book is long, I now wish it was longer. (Maybe Atwood will work up a sequel, bringing us the story of the survivor.) Meanwhile, read it. Don't rush. Savor the words.	2004-02-10
US	32326713	R2EL0BUNBKPCW5	0374166447	82302003	The Great Fire: A Novel	Books	4	13	16	N	N	Flawed excellence at a glacial pace	Shirley Hazzard's new book, The Great Fire, is a worthwhile read. The writing is excellent, as one would expect from such an accomplished author. And, toward the end, I found myself wanting to rush through the final chapters to find out how the man, Aldred, and his child-woman, Helen, would resolve their predicament; how, that is, would this man \\"rescue\\" this teenager from her doomed existence. I did feel a little uneasy -- I would even say \\"queasy\\" -- about this relationship. We live in an enlightened age of acceptance and tolerance, but this is a teenager we are talking about here. She's seventeen and he's thirty-three, not quite a dirty old man, but close (I kept picturing Ben Affleck with a British accent lusting after Britney Spears's baby sister). Here, the Australian girl is highly intelligent and well-read and is caring for her slowly dying brother, and her military man is a decorated war hero trying to gather material to write a book about the ravages of war in China and Japan, where he meets Helen in 1947. All of which helps us excuse the age-span problem.<br />The girl's mean parents are not enlightened enough to see all this and they try to keep the would-be lovers apart. The parents are so career-obsessed they cannot seem to care much for their dying son or their daughter's happiness, which does qualify them as villains of sorts, but I kept siding with them on giving the youngun a chance to grow up and find a lover her own age. Although a couple of other smarmy characters show up in minor roles, the other concrete \\"villain\\" in this story seems to be New Zealand, which I have come to love, knowing it is the true-life Middle Earth in the Lord of the Ring movies; I kept wondering why Helen would be condemned if she had to live there.<br />The true villains in this story are War and its partner, Time. The book is worth reading for this reason. World War II, that \\"inextinguishable conflagration,\\" or, the great fire, has left much death and destruction, and events seem to present the threat of an even greater war, as new world alliances are formed. This is, after all, the start of the atomic age, and war survivors such as Aldred Leith and his friend, Peter Exley, are wondering why they bothered to survive: what is there to live for? For Aldred, that becomes Helen -- so we are inclined to forgive him for robbing the cradle. It is only a matter of time before war begins again. Therefore, live life to its fullest; that is the message: forget about Helen's age, live it up. But the story is also a matter of the possibility of Helen's wasting away in the ravages of time (if she stays in New Zealand without the man she loves). And he, Aldred, winds up back in England, from where it takes weeks and weeks to travel to that dreary land way down under. Again, time is the enemy.<br />This book is literary, meaning keep your dictionary close, especially for Latinate prose words intended, I suppose, for any long dead Romans who might roll by a bookstore in their rusty chariots. It is also British, so a \\"lift\\" is an \\"elevator,\\" and so on, expressions we Americans stumble on. Still, the language is rich and rewarding in description of time and place, not just in China and Japan, but in England, Italy, and somewhat in other places. But many times, I wondered when we were ever going to get back into the plot. It reads like a railroad with many spurs: it keeps getting off the main track. That is rewarding in terms of characterization, both people and places, but it is not for readers wanting linear progression. For example, near the end I was irritated at reading a whole chapter about Helen's visit with two old ladies, which, I suppose, was intended to heighten the reader's sense of wanting a better life for the young girl.<br />A caveat on the fine writing: though this is a National Book Award winner (so what do I know?), I sometimes was irritated by what I judged to be an overuse of fragmented sentences, especially where pronouns were left out and verbs were used to start sentences. I became too conscious of the writing, instead of being able to follow the story without distraction.<br />Throughout the book, I had a sense the author was writing about herself. So I found it interesting that Shirley Hazzard as a teenager was briefly employed by British Intelligence to \\"spy\\" on changes in China during the period covered in the book. And I found it revealing that her parents were career diplomats, forcing her to have to relocate often, including to New Zealand. And she married a writer. That puts a wink in there. Bottom Line: I loved this book, wrinkles and all.e left out and verbs were used to start sentences. I became too conscious of the writing, instead of being able to follow the story without distraction.<br />Throughout the book, I had a sense the author was writing about herself. So I found it interesting that Shirley Hazzard as a teenager was briefly employed by British Intelligence to \\"spy\\" on changes in China during the period covered in the book. And I found it revealing that her parents were career diplomats, forcing her to have to relocate often, including to New Zealand. And she married a writer. That puts a wink in there. Bottom Line: I loved this book, wrinkles and all.	2004-01-05
US	32326713	R25M0DVWY4LW35	0385504209	315416156	The Da Vinci Code	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A guilty pleasure	My wife read this book first and enjoyed its mysteries, revelations and pacing, but was uncomforable with its portrayal of Christianity. I share her feelings, but we both agree the novel is worthwhile as a guilty pleasure. The book is cleverly and expertly done. The use of real historical organizations, such as the Priory of Sion, Opus Dei, and Knights Templar give it a serious, true-life sense. The fact that larger-than-life historical figures like da Vinci were involved with -- and even led -- The Priory of Sion gives it wonder. And author Dan Brown has cooked up a clever premise in which the foundation of Christianity would be shaken if the \\"truth\\" were known. And so the chase is on, with a symbologist, a cryptologist, and eventually a Royal historian solving riddles and rhymes in their search for the Holy Grail, with the French and eventually English authorities nipping at their heels as they are blamed for an increasing number of murders.<br />But what starts out as a fascinating cerebral adventure with a near literary tone can't quite hold that highminded course. What commences as wine and filet mignon dwindles to cola and hamburger. Maybe that's what happens when you cross the channel. The richest parts of the book come when we are in the head of the protagonist, Robert Langdon -- especially at the beginning, when he sees a historical, even ancient, symbolism in practically every object that meets his eye. These roots of our now familiar symbols are fascinating. But when the chase is on and ongoing puzzles need to be solved, they become tedious and even simplistic. The \\"difficult\\" clue concerning Sir Isacc Newton and an orb? Duh! And the \\"unseen\\" bad guy was all too obvious. Plus, I don't really think the French and English police are as dumb, naive and comical as this book would lead you to believe. However, when Ron Howard and his \\"Brilliant Mind\\" team produce the movie, as I've read they will do, I'm sure a lot of these discrepancies will be ironed out. Hopefully, the movie will hold to that rich Mona Lisa atmosphere the book so promisingly begins with. I have faith.<br />As for the attack on Christianity, when He was arrested Jesus told Peter to put up his sword. Because, if He needed to, He'd bring down legions of angels to kick butts. That's good enough for me. Meanwhile, everyone should enjoy The Da Vinci Code and take it for what it is -- a work of fiction built from elastic facts, like looking at clouds and seeing myriads of differing visions. Anyway, Langdon's true insights on symbols are worth the price of admission.pefully, the movie will hold to that rich Mona Lisa atmosphere the book so promisingly begins with. I have faith.<br />As for the attack on Christianity, when He was arrested Jesus told Peter to put up his sword. Because, if He needed to, He'd bring down legions of angels to kick butts. That's good enough for me. Meanwhile, everyone should enjoy The Da Vinci Code and take it for what it is -- a work of fiction built from elastic facts, like looking at clouds and seeing myriads of differing visions. Anyway, Langdon's true insights on symbols are worth the price of admission.	2003-12-10
US	32326713	R1P91SRUDTXRCI	1841954608	701095379	Vernon God Little: A 21st Century Comedy in the Presence of Death (Man Booker Prize)	Books	3	10	12	N	N	No Longer Interested	Yes, this book, Vernon God Little, won the Man Booker Prize. And I usually love the books that win the Booker or Pulitzer. However, after only a few chapters, I find I cannot care about this character -- or any of the characters. Perhaps I should. I don't. As some other reviewers have indicated here, the continuous use of the \\"f\\" word in various forms is tiring. But that isn't the only problem; I don't care about the story. While some other readers have kept on reading and came to appreciate the book after initially disliking it, I would rather use my time reading some of the Booker Prize runners-up.<br />I must confess that I also did not enjoy \\"A Confederacy of Dunces\\" or \\"Catcher in the Rye,\\" one a Pulitzer winner and the other a classic, and both have been compared with this novel. And \\"Vernon God Little\\" does have some fine writing, vividly expressed through the troubled mind of a fifteen-year-old boy -- humorously. And maybe that is the crux of my problem in trying to read this novel, that it is a dark comedy about the aftermath of the killing of school children. After Columbine, I'm not ready for this. I don't feel like laughing. Doubt I ever will. Not in this context. But who knows, maybe next year the Booker will go to a comedy about the aftermath of 9/11. If this book is funny, then that one ought to be a barrel of laughs.<br />The author of \\"Vernon God Little\\" is Australian-born, U.S.-Mexican raised DBC Pierre (DBC = Dirty But Clean), pen name for author Peter Finlay. Perhaps reading about him on some Booker-related web sites has affected my opinion of the book. I hope not. I try to be fair. The work should be judged on its own merit, though that is hard to do, having read about him.<br />I'm sure many will love this novel. And it may turn out to be an \\"important\\" book. But if you don't enjoy repetitive \\"f\\" words and other obscenities, plus dark humor, it might not be the book for you. Last year's remarkable Booker winner, Life of Pi, was also about a teenage boy trying to survive. But Pi was a noble young man you could care about.eenage boy trying to survive. But Pi was a noble young man you could care about.	2003-11-02
US	32326713	R16EG6BYPD9ULZ	0743475941	187873278	The Valley of Light: A Novel (Kay, Terry)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	The Finest Terry Kay Novel Yet	In Terry Kay's latest novel, The Valley of Light, the author has returned to what I believe is his first love -- the hill country of the South in the post-World War II period, the late 1940s. The writing evokes the time and place: mellow and serene, yet mysterious and suspenseful. The best place to read this book would be in a rocker on a screened-in back porch, or on a front porch swing. Even better, beneath a tree next to a lake.<br />The quiet hero is a mystical fisherman with a gift that sets him apart. But fishing, as both sport and food source, is only the axis for the story; the man's &quot;gift&quot; is its body and soul. In fashioning his hero, Kay again turns to the returning war veteran (as he did in &quot;The Runaway&quot;) and gives him a name that is associated with water and wandering: Noah. References to the Bible and The Grapes of Wrath reinforce the image. Noah is to fishing what Tiger Woods is to golf and Lance Armstrong is to cycling, only more so. When an old man suggests that Noah should dip his hook in the waters of a place called &quot;The Valley of Light,&quot; Noah is soon on the road, seeking out the monster fish the man spoke of. When he arrives, the reclusive Noah becomes more involved with people than he has been in years. But his gift brings him both notoriety and grief, moving him closer to the inevitable confrontation with the monster that waits for him within the dark waters of The Lake of Grief.<br />As always, Kay's book is filled with interesting characters, mainly the widow Eleanor, who has one eye on Noah and one on store owner Taylor, but who mainly keeps her sights on escaping the valley altogether. Will she choose Noah, Taylor, or the road? What really happened to her husband, an apparent suicide? Will Noah win the fishing tournament, ending the long reign of local fisherman Littleberry Davis? As you turn the pages to find out, you are treated to streams of prose poetry. Kay's descriptions are some of his finest ever. He makes people and scenery both come to life. And, as a bonus, the surprise ending is designed to bring a smile to your lips, and hope to your heart. I loved Terry Kay's &quot;Taking Lottie Home,&quot; thinking he would never have a better one. Now I think &quot;The Valley of Light&quot; is his finest. Which makes me wonder what his next one will be like.akes people and scenery both come to life. And, as a bonus, the surprise ending is designed to bring a smile to your lips, and hope to your heart. I loved Terry Kay's &quot;Taking Lottie Home,&quot; thinking he would never have a better one. Now I think &quot;The Valley of Light&quot; is his finest. Which makes me wonder what his next one will be like.	2003-10-24
US	32326713	R26HOD59K8H76Z	0156027321	843703088	Life of Pi	Books	5	3	6	N	N	A tiger of a tale	A teenager and a tiger on a lifeboat in the Pacific Ocean. How does the boy survive? On the surface (pardon the pun) it seems a simple story. It isn't. It has the complexity of a zoo filled with a myriad of creatures. The ending of \\"Life of Pi\\" reminds me of the ending of \\"Atonement\\" (by Ian McEwan), where I wanted to return to the beginning and start over, because I wanted to enjoy the story with a new understanding. (Someone actually emailed me about Atonement, after I left my comments on Amazon, wanting me to explain the ending; and that ending was far less complex.)<br />This book works on many levels. I admire the writing, but I greatly respect the amount of research needed. Yann Martel deserves the Booker Prize based on his research alone. Through his characters, he explores zoo maintenance, religions and religious practices, sea life, survival techniques, and so on.<br />\\"Life of Pi\\" is both a work of art and a work of science, with a little science fiction and fantasy tossed in. Since I already believed in God, the book didn't affect my faith (as some of the hype insinuated it would), but if I interpret the theme correctly, it does reinforce my faith in mankind's ability to survive. The mind is resourceful, and that, to me, is the real message Martel the Marvel brings us: that the mind allows us to devise ways to survive, mentally as well as physically. Of course, it could be said that the human mind is God's gift in the first place, therefore justifying the \\"will make you believe in God\\" hype. Regardless, I believe that \\"Life of Pi\\" is Yann Martel's miracle of literature. That's my story, and I'm sticking to it. And you must read the book to truly understand that last sentence. It's worth your dime, as well as your time.	2003-10-15
US	32326713	R3KXR5BZRW003G	0385494246	654180128	Amsterdam: A Novel	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Excellent visit to a personal Waterloo	I read \\"Amsterdam\\" after reading Ian McEwan's amazing \\"Atonement,\\" and I think the key theme for both books is that bad things happen to relatively good people who commit moral wrongs, while good things happen to those who are innately or inherently bad. That's because good people are burdened with a conscience, a good person's Achilles' heel. After reading this book, I realized that no true \\"hero\\" is present in either book, unless you consider the wronged servant's son, Robbie, in Atonement, and Molly Lane, in Amsterdam. Of course, Molly appears in the book only as a reflection, since the story begins at her funeral. But she is the wronged innocent person in this story. All the former men in her life are not really evil, they are just opportunists and egoists. Worst of all, they are all rivals on some level, and that's what does two of them in. The composer Clive Linley and his editor friend Vernon Halliday actually have good intentions, but when the editor betrays Molly after her death (thanks to her now widower husband, George Lane), their intentions go awry, along with their friendship.<br />As in Atonement, the struggle between good and evil is chiefly internal. In Atonement, one of the main players is undone by a self righteous deed performed during a bout of heightened self importance. In Amsterdam, Clive and Vernon suffer the same fate, turning on each other when confronted by the immorality of their actions. And, as in Atonement, the more unsavory characters continue on their way, unburdened by any conflict of internal doubts. If Ian McEwan had written It's a Wonderful Life, George Bailey would have jumped into the river, after convincing himself to do something crookedly noble to replace the Savings and Loan's missing money and then having to face his conscience as a result; and at the very end, Mr. Potter would be counting his new money, having no conscience to make him second guess any actions on his part that helped lead to Bailey's death or the collapse of the Savings and Loan. \\"Amsterdam\\" is filled with dark humor, and a lesson that men of good conscience had best follow it. However, though \\"Amsterdam\\" won the Booker Prize and \\"Atonement\\" did not, I still believe \\"Atonement\\" is the far greater achievement.e of the Savings and Loan. \\"Amsterdam\\" is filled with dark humor, and a lesson that men of good conscience had best follow it. However, though \\"Amsterdam\\" won the Booker Prize and \\"Atonement\\" did not, I still believe \\"Atonement\\" is the far greater achievement.	2003-09-08
US	32326713	R1497TRY9IWILL	038572179X	977000479	Atonement: A Novel	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Needs no atonement, a novelist's delight	Just about anyone who has written a novel, or has ever wanted to, will easily identify with the main character in Atonement. In the beginning, in 1935, the creative thirteen-year-old Briony Tallis is enjoying a childhood filled with private imaginings, which are sometimes converted into public performances. Her story is told in three stages: at thirteen, eighteen, and seventy-seven. The essence of the story is what motivates a novelist -- why do we write? In many cases, we share Briony's insoluble passion: the search for atonement. The word &quot;atone&quot; is a compounding of the phrase &quot;at one,&quot; and, following her offense, this is Briony's goal, to be once more at one with the loved ones she has harmed. But even with all her talent, commitment and skills, how can she bring about the outcome for which she so desperately yearns? How can she bring together the lovers she has parted, and thereby regain their love as well?<br />In Ian McEwan's books, the villans sometimes get off the hook, at least in this life. So the reader should not be too surprised that in Atonement, the guilty are either enjoying a life of successful bliss, or trying to find atonement for irreparable damage to loved ones. The first half of the book is evocative of Remains of the Day in that the &quot;battles&quot; are all social, while the second half of the book switches back and forth between Briony, as she tries to atone for her crime, and Robbie Turner, the son of a family servant, as he flees from the Germans, toward Dunkirk, holding on to his hope of being reunited with his lover, Briony's sister, Cecilia. The writing is deep and rich, the images of war unforgettable. The ending is both surprising and haunting. Atonement is more than worthwhile, it is a must read for thinkers and imaginative people, especially novelists.	2003-09-02
US	32326713	R1ZRCOQKCLGVN3	0452282152	858318999	Girl with a Pearl Earring: A Novel	Books	5	1	3	N	N	A Deft Painting of a Delft girl	The subject of this story of the late 1600's is the girl who eventually poses for a famous Dutch artist, but the axis is art itself, how it elevates us, and, to some degree, how it can destroy us. Author Tracy Chevalier cleverly capitalizes on the scant information we have on the artist and the absence of any information on the girl herself. In this story, the subject of the portrait turns out to be an unfortunate young girl who is forced by circumstances to work as a maid in the artist's household. It is an era of class consciousness, where a lowly maid has to work hard, tolerate most anything, and watch her words carefully. To make matters worse, a hateful nemesis forms in one of the artist's young daughters. When the maid is drawn into the artist's world, tension builds as she first becomes a kind of muse, helping the artist with his art, then increases as she becomes an object of art herself. Though she's desired by the artist and by a proprietor, both with different kinds of lusts, it is the handsome butcher with permanently bloody fingernails who offers her genuine love and hope. Once she has posed for Vermeer, alienating what few alliances she has, will the act enrich her, or destroy her? The latter seems most likely. There are no dead bodies here, no shootouts, and no car chases (or even coach chases), but there is plenty of conflict and drama. In the mold of Remains of the Day, class struggles and their inevitable dangerous role-playing keep the reader tense and involved. Personal destruction waits only a word, a movement, a slip-up away. As Vermeer in another painting gave us the town of Delft in near perfect brush strokes, Tracy Chevalier has given us a plausible and enchanting version of the girl with a pearl earring in near perfect keystrokes.	2003-08-19
US	32326713	R2U46YR3724J39	0374199698	298109609	Middlesex: A Novel	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Satisfying, Informative	Jeffery Eugenides spent a lot of years working on this book, and it shows. He fuses history and biology into what amounts to a trilogy -- three generations of stories leading up to the time when a girl discovers that she, Caliope, is mostly a he, Cal. While Cal is the book's raison d'etre, a volatile gene is the axis for this family epic. I actually found the story of Cal's grandparents, Desdemona and Lefty, to be the most exciting. Not only do we have a love story starring brother and sister, but we have a war, flight of the refugees, and immigrant new beginnings. The story of Cal's parents is almost as interesting; though not quite as stimulating, we again have a close-relatives love affair that won't be denied and a bloody uprising in a major city that was a virtual war. Then, in the third act, we have Caliope herself discovering himself, so to speak, which goes from a fairly normal but adventurous childhood to the ultimate story of teenage anst, followed by a nearly tragic road trip. Actually, the book could be called quite a road show, starting with the disputed Turkish-Greek regions of the Old World and continuing into the inner and outer zones of Detroit. Along the way, we cover a lot of history and culture and cultural shock. The book is as much about Greek immigrants holding on to or letting go of their heritage as it is about a loose cannon of a gene. And I now know a lot more about Detroit. This is the best way to discover the history of a city: through adventures. What surprised me most was the way Eugenides has used humor to convert a sensitive, almost squeamish subject into an enjoyable read. That, I think, is the real joy of this book. And to be able to let the main character use first person viewpoint to tell the story of his own conception and later his birth and still make it all seem credible to the reader, that is nothing short of a miracle. I just wish I knew the correct way to pronounce the last name of the author, Eugenides, and the character, Stephanides. Is it eye-dees, or ee-dees? Either way, Middlesex is a long book, but worth every page.Stephanides. Is it eye-dees, or ee-dees? Either way, Middlesex is a long book, but worth every page.	2003-08-19
US	32326713	R399E77MNRJD4R	0679432477	340719393	Empire Falls	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Small town with a much broader meaning	The name itself, Empire Falls, can be, and was probably intended as, a metaphor. In this novel, it is the name of a town named for a waterfall in central Maine. It is also what happens to a family dynasty, the Whitings, whose men \\"invariably married women who made their lives miserable.\\" Their empire was bound to fall when the last of the Whiting males, C.B., married Francine Robideaux, a not-so-blueblood who winds up driving her husband to suicide, a fact cleverly revealed in the prologue. And so, we have the antagonist, a controlling, devious conniver who seems to think everyone in Empire Falls is, or should be, her puppet, especially Miles Roby, proprietor of the Empire Grill. And here we have the protagonist, a middle-aged man hoping to someday own the grill that he has tended for the last fifteen years, but knowing Francine Whiting cannot be counted on to leave it to him when she dies. Especially since he has failed to fall in love with the woman's daughter. And, of course, there is that terrible secret about Roby's mother, Grace.<br />In a way, Empire Falls is also a metaphor for America itself. You have here the wealthy few ready and eager to sell out the striving-to-get-by many. That, I believe, is the central theme of this book. I once worked for a company that was sold to a larger company that purchased \\"only the assets\\" of the smaller company; which meant all the employees could be hired back within hours as new employees now bereft of certain company benefits. For example: no accrued vacations, existing health problems not covered by insurance, and so on. Nice folks, huh. So it is with Empire Falls, mostly under the control of the whims of one very wealthy and whimsical woman, who delightfully makes deals that harm people.<br />Roby has other problems than the grill, of course. His teenage daughter Tick seems to have more on her shoulders than a heavy backpack. Roby's soon-to-be ex-wife, Janine, is in love with a fitness guru, Walt Comeau, who has his own naughty secret. Roby's brother, and business partner, David once got drunk and drove off a cliff, so his dependability is in doubt. And the king of decent but slightly shifty characters is his father, Max, a painter who works at his own pace and is prone to lift money from wherever it presents itself. Max is \\"sempty,\\" meaning seventy years old, but still quite spry. Besides these, there are many other interesting and believable town characters who fit into the story, but it is a harassed classmate of Tick's who finally fights back, not just against his tormentors, but against life in general, and thereby delivers a blow that changes all their lives.<br />This book won the Pulitzer in 2002, and a book with some similar themes, The Blind Assassin, won the Booker Prize in 2000. Readers who enjoy this book might enjoy that one as well, and vice versa. Of course, a comparison could also be made to another Booker Prize winner, Vernon God Little for 2003, in the sense of dealing with a tragedy involving high school kids, but at least Empire Falls did not treat the subject humorously.<br />The only negative comment I have about Empire Falls is the use of italic type in whole chapters that dealt with flashbacks. While it lets the reader know the material is past and not present, large blocks of italicized text are never fun to read. Bottom line: this book is well worth reading, not just because Pulitzer graced it.own naughty secret. Roby's brother, and business partner, David once got drunk and drove off a cliff, so his dependability is in doubt. And the king of decent but slightly shifty characters is his father, Max, a painter who works at his own pace and is prone to lift money from wherever it presents itself. Max is \\"sempty,\\" meaning seventy years old, but still quite spry. Besides these, there are many other interesting and believable town characters who fit into the story, but it is a harassed classmate of Tick's who finally fights back, not just against his tormentors, but against life in general, and thereby delivers a blow that changes all their lives. <br />This book won the Pulitzer in 2002, and a book with some similar themes, The Blind Assassin, won the Booker Prize in 2000. Readers who enjoy this book might enjoy that one as well, and vice versa. Of course, a comparison could also be made to another Booker Prize winner, Vernon God Little for 2003, in the sense of dealing with a tragedy involving high school kids, but at least Empire Falls did not treat the subject humorously. <br />The only negative comment I have about Empire Falls is the use of italic type in whole chapters that dealt with flashbacks. While it lets the reader know the material is past and not present, large blocks of italicized text are never fun to read. Bottom line: this book is well worth reading, not just because Pulitzer graced it.	2003-08-18
US	32326713	R3B1V6B00S6KDD	0060934417	546555129	Bel Canto	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Back to the River Kwai, but in song	I chose to read this book because it won the PEN/Faulkner Award and The Orange Prize (for women writers), along with being a finalist for the National Book Critics Circle Award, not to mention that it received the raves of numerous book critics across the nation (hardly the novelist's relatives). I was not disappointed. It was not until I reached the end and closed the book that I realized I had the same feeling I had after watching the movie, Bridge over the River Kwai. There was the danger posed at the beginning and then the same helpless, claustrophobic feeling of captivity, followed by a period of cooperation and growing respect between captor and captive that could only end in disaster because outside forces would eventually intervene. But in Ann Patchett's wonderful opus, instead of two nationalities there are many. And females are among the captives and captors this time, which naturally brings on love stories. The true magic of the book is the author's talent in getting into the heads, and hearts, of so many of the characters. Motivation drives characterization, and it is fascinating how Patchett is able to locate the driving force in each of so many diverse captors and captives. Of course, they are all captives, really, since the captors themselves are also contained within the walls of their own conquest, giving the book a Russian doll irony.<br />When the opera singer adds her voice to the mix, I was reminded of another fine book, &quot;Shadow Song&quot; by author Terry Kay, in which an opera singer also mesmerizes a whole town.<br />&quot;Bel Canto&quot; is Italian for &quot;beautiful singing.&quot; And the book is a beautiful song. I read Bel Canto after reading The Girl With The Pearl Earing by Tracy Chevalier, which centered on a famous work of art. It has been a pleasure to read two books back-to-back where art and music formed the core. Normally I don't enjoy reading books by women, I am reluctant to admit in public, but these two books have been two of my most most enjoyable reading experiences...ever.two of my most most enjoyable reading experiences...ever.	2003-08-13
