US	32336537	R1HG8RC1T0L0F0	0345370775	392304217	Jurassic Park: A Novel	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Excellent Read	The movie was entertaining, but I never thought much about reading the book. The movie just never compelled me enough to hunt the book down. However, my friend loved it, and she shares reading interests similar to my own. I have a cold and didn't actually think I would finish with this book soon. Fooled myself. I fought the effects of cold medicine to finish this book. Dinosaurs still don't fascinate me, but the characters in this book did. The science behind creating something like Jurassic Park was interesting as well. But mainly, I really liked the characters and how they interacted with each other.<br /><br />Each character only coincides with his or her book counterpart in the basest of ways. Hammond being the rich eccentric, Grant being the famed paleontologist, Malcolm being the pessimistic mathematician (he was a mathematician in the movie, too, right?) etc. The book presents new sides of the characters that make me see the characters in a different light. I believe that Hammond was foolish, almost to the point of idiocy, and early in the book, I could tell that I wasn't going to feel bad that his project was going to fail. In fact, I felt it was only right that his project DID fail. Hammond lacked common sense. He carelessly disregarded the warnings that his staff-notably Wu, Muldoon, and Arnold-constantly tried to get him to understand. No one had seen the likes of these creatures for millions of years, and yet, Hammond treated them like common animals, which proved to be his downfall (along with other non-dino related problems).<br /><br />The story itself was compelling, intellengent, and even for someone who doesn't have an avid interest in things such as dinosaurs, this story pulls them in. In fact, sometimes, the dinos themselves aren't the main focus of the book (I know they weren't for me). I actually would rate this a 4.5, but it's definitely better than a four.	2004-12-14
US	32336537	R21CDUHSVN6HO1	0064407667	25170610	The Bad Beginning (A Series of Unfortunate Events #1)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	An okay beginning	Book 1 of the Series of Unfortunate Events. Read it in about an hour or so. The Baudelaire children find themselves in the care of a very distant (and cruel) relative after their parents' death. This is the beginning of their unfortunate adventures as orphans.<br /><br />I was expecting something a lot different when I started reading this book. I enjoyed this book, but it wasn't what I expected it to be. I found it a little jarring how the omnipresent narrator would suddenly start defining words in the middle of sentence, but I can see how that would be important for children who have no interest in dictionaries.<br /><br />The book was absorbing. The plot was a little thin, but I had to see what happened to the children. Yes, it is slightly despressing for a children's novel--morose, even--but it's an interesting read. I couldn't help hoping that something good happened to those children, but as we all know, this isn't the case.<br /><br />I don't agree with the reviewer who mentioned these books had some undertones not suitable for children, so did the Harry Potter books, especially the latter books. And these books are nowhere near as \\"thematic\\" as the 2nd Harry Potter book.	2004-12-06
US	32336537	R2Z2Y94G9SBHEF	0060505877	314406782	Meeting of the Waters: A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	Not bad at all	The meeting of the waters is an actual natural event that occurs in Brazil. It's where the water from the Solimões River (which is muddy) meets with the dark water from Rio Negro. They run side by side without mixing. I've seen pictures of it, but I hope to see it in person one day. The phenomenon is mentioned in the book and holds much significance to the story itself.<br /><br />Porter Stockman, a white journalist from Philadelphia, goes to Los Angeles to get the story on the Rodney King riots. While there, he finds himself the target of a group of angry, black people. Fortunately, a black, female journalist, Lenora Page, saves him. When he finds out that she will be working at the same paper, he goes out of his way to show her his gratitude, which results in love.<br /><br />I loved the characters in the book. You have Porter Stockman. His mother is overbearing. His father doesn't seem to care about much, and his sister is a maverick. He spent his teenage years wondering what the hell he was going to do with his life. He likes to think of himself as a white person who doesn't see race as an issue. He's an all-around good guy. He's believable, funny, and real. He doesn't do all the right things, and he doesn't do all the wrong things. He makes human decisions, which many authors tend to forget about.<br /><br />Lenora is a very pro-black woman who can't believe she's falling for a white man. Her father left her family when she was young, and her mother is dealing with bi-polar. Her younger brother still longs to find their father, but she's given up all hope. She's very proud to be a black woman, and she's quick to let everyone know. She's independent, smart, and sassy. She loves herself, and honestly, a lot of women-of any race-could take a lesson from her.<br /><br />The only thing that annoyed me about this book was Lenora's preoccupation with race. I understand this was important to establish her character. She was trying to make Porter aware of the prejudices that people of color and biracial couples go through, but it turned into borderline obsessive after a while. Being a woman of color myself, it even drove me mad. I definitely understood how helpless Porter felt. I could see the wedge she was driving into their relationship with race. It was tiresome, even for me - the reader. She manages to break a really good man, and by the time she realizes her mistake, things are already broken. Then they must choose what they really want.<br /><br />Other than that, I loved this book. It really makes its reader thing about race relations. One of the most important questions posed in the book is not about Porter and Lee's relationship itself, but the question of what makes a person racist. It's not just a typical romance where two of the characters happen to be a different race. It really gets the readers thinking about the politics behind race.prejudices that people of color and biracial couples go through, but it turned into borderline obsessive after a while. Being a woman of color myself, it even drove me mad. I definitely understood how helpless Porter felt. I could see the wedge she was driving into their relationship with race. It was tiresome, even for me - the reader. She manages to break a really good man, and by the time she realizes her mistake, things are already broken. Then they must choose what they really want.  <br /> <br />Other than that, I loved this book. It really makes its reader thing about race relations. One of the most important questions posed in the book is not about Porter and Lee's relationship itself, but the question of what makes a person racist. It's not just a typical romance where two of the characters happen to be a different race. It really gets the readers thinking about the politics behind race.	2004-12-03
US	32336537	R2YD8S9IHOAVLB	0964374021	300615381	Lo's Diary	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Amusing read;	Lo's Diary is Lolita (Delores Haze's) side of the events that Humbert Humbert told in Lolita. Once again, John Ray is presented with a manuscript this time from the hands of the famed nymphet herself.<br />She tells Mr. Ray that some of the details of Lolita were just over-romanticized lies thought up by Humbert, but then she sort of recants and decides that maybe Humbert was so deluded he really thought those things happened. So, we learn the &quot;true&quot; story of what happened starting with Lolita's diary a few months before Humbert Humbert entered the picture.<br />I really, really disliked Humbert Humbert while reading Lolita, and I don't think I was supposed to like him. This book was quite a jewel since Lolita's assessment of Humbert coincides with they way I felt he really was in Lolita, a bumbling fool.<br />This wasn't written in the same style as Nabokov's Lolita. This is quite a bit more down-to-earth. You don't have to go through pages and pages of description about one minute detail. Lo just tells it like it is. Sometimes, Lolita seems a little too mature for her age, and sometimes she seems a little childish, just as she's presented in Lolita, though. I thought it was an amusing read.	2004-03-13
US	32336537	R3SDYRZQ0O3CLZ	0843933828	710705770	Demon Within	Books	1	1	2	N	N	Eh...	Young women are dying in very gruesome deaths in an apartment complex, and one of the tenants feels that she is somehow involved that because of her past she has made this monster come to hurt the women of her building. I really can't say too much more about this book without giving away too much of the plot.<br />This book was horrible. It was so bad that I had to find out what happened to the characters. The heroine annoyed me to no end, but I had to find out what was going to happen to her. It didn't help that 100 pages into the book I already knew who the killer was and why it was happening.<br />I had to read it for myself just to see if I was right. I will give Ms. Reed points for trying to make something new and interesting, but she failed to get me to care about the characters, and despite having a plot that could have been superb, it was weakly executed. She could have really had a winner with this one.	2004-03-04
US	32336537	RDCU3JPBW0ZRA	0451205553	634041775	Trauma	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Interesting trauma story	Bonnie Winters runs a crime scene clean-up service, meaning she goes in and clean up places where violent scenes have taken place. She also works as a cosmetics lady when she's not cleaning crime scenes, just to remind herself that she's something other than a mother/wife/cleaning lady. Bonnie works as the sole supporter of her family since her husband lost his job, which he blames on the Mexicans as a whole, and her son is just a teenager going through a difficult time.<br />I really liked how they didn't clue you in much on Bonnie. Bits and pieces of her life is shown through her interactions. One minute you're reading about a particularly gruesome crime scene, and the next you're reading about what she's cooking for dinner. I like this because it seems that the author is trying to show you some kind of normalcy in Bonnie's life.<br />This book turned out a lot different than I expected. I never saw that plot twist toward the end coming. Well, I did gradually, but in the beginning, it's not something you expect to happen. Everything so matter-of-fact in the book that I just didn't expect that at first. It could have been considered a deus ex machina if it hadn't been for the fact that there were subtle clues about what was happening.<br />There are a few editing problems in the book, but overall, it's a really good read.	2004-02-08
US	32336537	R24HHH2YGCSXWH	0345388771	383851428	Primal Fear	Books	4	3	4	N	N	First-rate legal thriller	Aaron Stampler is found in a confessional booth holding a knife, proclaiming his innocence, after someone killed the revered Bishop of the city. Martin Vail, a quick-witted lawyer who isn't afraid to leap before he looks, is basically coerced into defending the young man who appears guilty in every sense of the world. Every politician in the city seems to have a vendetta against Vail and looks foward to seeing him lose the case.<br />Liked the movie. Loved the book. As with most book-to-movie adaptations, the book was better. Unlike his movie persona, Vail isn't cool, well-dressed sauveness that Richard Gere presented. The Vail in the book is a man who isn't overly concerned about his personal appearance, and he isn't afraid to grab at straws, and he makes lawyers tremble just at the mention of his name.<br />The book also provided more insight on Aaron. You get a taste of his childhood and find out more about what molded him. In the book, Aaron is a genius, despite the accent and his angelic appearance. His childhood wasn't the best thing, and he's even described as being able to detach himself from tragedies. Is that enough to make him a killer? Is he mentally stable?<br />I'm sure by now, most people have heard about the twist, but that doesn't take the impact away from reading it for yourself. I read the &quot;twist&quot; over and over again, even though I've seen the movie and knew what to expect. A first-rate legal thriller. I can't wait to read the sequel.	2004-02-07
US	32336537	R3ECB114YFYA53	0446523186	705659420	Belladonna	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Delicious Novel	Isabella Ariel Nickerson is kidnapped and auctioned for 1 million pounds in 1930s England. She finds herself the unwilling play thing of a club of men who get their kicks out of forcing sexual tortures on women. Isabella is actually purchased by a man she knows only as \\"His Lordship\\", a man she will dedicate the rest of her life to finding and destroying once she escapes her hell.<br />The story is narrated by a man named Tomasino, one of the few men that Belladonna truly trusts (along with his twin Matteo). They were castrated in the war, and therefore, Belladonna doesn't see them as a threat. Belladonna finds herself the heir of a large fortune, and she dedicates her money and time to Club Belladonna, a popular club, where she hopes to lure one of the members into her club. One member is all it will take to find the rest.<br />I went into this expecting that I wouldn't like it, and honestly, the very beginning, the chapter before the actual story of Belladonna begins, was quite dull. It had that same rambling, verbose, tedious style as Middlesex did in the beginning, which sort of throws me off for a second because I like to get immediately sucked into a book. After that first chapter though, I was thorougly engrossed with Belladonna's story.<br />Tomasino is a witty narrator. He loves to talk. He loves to gloat. He loves to be right. Honestly, I'm glad he was the one telling the story. It gives it a flair that I think would be missing if Belladonna, or even his brother Matteo, told the story. Belladonna's diary is also scattered throughout the book; the diary she kept while she was imprisoned. The diary format was an interesting one as well, as it was written in third person rather than first.<br />I think the concept of revenge appealed to me, as it would many people. How many people get the chance to get their revenge against someone who wrongs them? Many of us have wanted to, but we've never had the satisfaction of doing so. Sure, Belladonna's methods seem a little out there, but wouldn't we all go to great lengths, if we could, to get payback? You can't help but root for Belladonna.<br />So, while this book seems a little extreme, it is a good novel. I wasn't too satisfied with the ending. It seemed a little rushed, a real let down to the climatic events that were taking place before it. Still well worth the read.ittle out there, but wouldn't we all go to great lengths, if we could, to get payback? You can't help but root for Belladonna.<br />So, while this book seems a little extreme, it is a good novel. I wasn't too satisfied with the ending. It seemed a little rushed, a real let down to the climatic events that were taking place before it. Still well worth the read.	2004-02-04
US	32336537	R2DXZXWP8H0N26	0373289391	827067765	Short Straw Bride (Harlequin Historical, 339)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Cute story	When Daniel McClain (Luke's younger brother) decides they need a woman's touch around the house, Daniel and Luke pull straws to see who's going to get a bride. Luke pulled the short straw. Then, Luke starts the search for the &quot;perfect&quot; bride by attending church. There he meets Eleanor who isn't a beauty, by her own perception of course, but she's just what Luke is looking for.<br />Eleanor is living with aunt, uncle, and her snooty, beautiful cousin, and she's more than glad to get out the house when Luke comes a'calling. When she finds out that she's a short-straw bride, well, things aren't too pretty after that.<br />I rarely read romance books these days. That's a phase that I've moved beyond in my life. I didn't even know this was a Harlequin book until I was looking up the ASIN at Amazon.com. It doesn't read like your typical Harlequin book, and my edition has no indication on the cover that it is a Harlequin romance.<br />This wasn't a bad book. Like most romance that's written these days, there wasn't a lot of substance to it, but it was sweet and very cute. It's something to read on a boring day or if you're looking for something that's not too &quot;deep&quot;.	2004-01-31
US	32336537	R2C7HB1GLGVU7J	0380814021	287069968	The Princess Diaries	Books	4	0	0	N	N	As if she already weren't a big enough freak	Mia Thermopolis is a ninth grader living in Greenwich village. She thinks that her life is pretty normal -- despite the fact that her mom is famous and her dad is rich. She still struggles with school, hangs out with her friends, lusts after boys.<br />Then she finds out that her dad is really a prince who's unable to have anymore children, making her a princess and the sole heir to the throne. Most girls would be thrilled to hear that news, but Mia isn't happy about it at all. She figures life is already hard enough without adding princess duties to the mix.<br />I saw the movie first and thought I would give the book a try. It wasn't a bad book. It was cute, funny, and lighthearted. This is the kind of book that takes your mind away from your troubles. Despite the fantastical element of Mia being a princess, Cabot manages to catch teenage life pretty well. She even knows what \\"cool\\" words to use and how to use them.<br />You find yourself rolling your eyes, laughing, and snorting at things that happen in the book, and that's the fun part of it. You react to the situations presented. All-in-all, this was a cute book. There were some things that irked me, but, overall, I enjoyed it.	2004-01-31
US	32336537	R1PCDO8NCHTQNJ	0671021001	785191741	She's Come Undone (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	She's come undone;	I'm not sure what I can say about this book without giving away too much of the plot. Everything I want to say seems like a potential spoiler, but I'll try.<br />Delores Price spends the early part of childhood in a sort of childish bliss. She somewhat oblivious to the problems her parents are having. It only matters that they're somewhat well-off. Then, Delores's parents divorce and she spends the next few years of her life sitting in front of the television and eating junk food to combat her problems.<br />Delores is like any other teen. She just wants to be accepted and liked. She admires movie stars, she likes music and guys, but she's not accepted because she's fat. Kids at school bully her (and that's the least of her worries), but instead of fighting back, she retreats into a world of overeating and the television.<br />I heard some people say that Lamb can't write women. I beg to differ. He wrote women exceptionally well in my opinion. Books rarely make me cry, but this one caused me to tear up quite a few times. Delores emotions, her failures, her successes were so true, so believable, as you follow Delores through tragedy after tragedy.	2004-01-29
US	32336537	R2HGXD3B2QHNHQ	0192833626	590612959	Tess of the D'Urbervilles (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Tragically Beautiful	Tess's father, Mr. Durbeyfield, is told by a minister that his family is the direct lineage of an old, noble family that was once thought to be completely gone. There's nothing left of the family's land and fortune, except the family name (d'Urberville).<br />However, Mr. Durbeyfield and his wife see this as a chance to move up on the social ladder. They devise a plan to send their daughter to become acquainted with a rich woman who's last name is d'Urberville. From then on, Tess is left to try to maintain her dignity and honor and to pick up the pieces of her broken life that resulted from her parents' need to be important.<br />This is my first time reading anything by Thomas Hardy. I was warned that he was cynical man, and I'll agree that Hardy's prose is cynical, yet heartrending. I couldn't help feeling bad for Tess through all her troubles. This is not a happy novel. For a moment, you think that things will get better for Tess, but the fates seem to be against her.<br />The landscape of the novel changes with the mood of what's happening. The land itself almost seems to be a living person that he described.He uses vivid, beautifully described imagery to describe people and places in his novels. There are themes of theology (Hardy had internal conflicts with believing in God), virtue, the boundaries of love. He employs everything from Greek mythology to modern (or what was modern in his day) poetry.<br />There are no illusions of a happily-ever-after in this story. This was simply a beautiful novel, a novel that portrays its female heroine as the strong woman she was. She could put more modern women heroines to shame.	2004-01-27
US	32336537	R253WB59F8WE8M	0316666343	784206304	The Lovely Bones	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Enthralling story	In the winter of 1973, Susie Salmon, age 14, is killed and raped by her strange neighbor, Mr. Harvey, but Susie's story doesn't end there. The novel is told by Susie from Heaven as she continues to watch over everyone she loves--and those she doesn't love. Susie describes Heaven as being a place that caters to your whims -- your own personal heaven. Susie finds she can have anything she wants in Heaven except her life on Earth back.<br />This turned out to be completely different from what I was expecting. I'm not sure what I was expecting, but this definitely wasn't it. I was pleasantly surprised with the story. Even though, Susie is dead, she still seems to be going through typical adolescent behavior from Heaven. She dreams about first kisses and speaks on sex, but she no longer has the chance to experience those parts of life. So, she lives her life through her friends and family.<br />Of course, Susie's family--her mother, her father, her brother, and her sister--are effected deeply by her death to the point that their family starts to crumble because of her death, but we're also shown the impact that her death had on her school crush, Ray, and a girl she barely knew, Ruth. It was interesting to see how her family dealt with it and how those outside her family dealt as well.<br />But for all it's good points, there are some things that irked me. Some of the scene involving Ray and Ruth seemed to overshadow the main point. Susie's mother was very underdeveloped. While you could feel empathy for her father and siblings, you really couldn't do anything but dislike Susie's mother because you only saw one side of her. It was like she was a supporting character rather than one of the main characters. Also, The ending dragged a little longer than it should, and honestly, it left me feeling a little dissatisfied in regards to Mr. Harvey.<br />Overall, good read, though.	2004-01-26
US	32336537	R38QTV7LP90C0B	0743428013	816692709	Remember Me #1 (reissue)	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Very original	Young adult horror. Shari Cooper dies one night while at a party. She doesn't realize she's dead until the next day when her family acts like she isn't even there. Her death is ruled as suicide, but she knows she was murdered, and she sets out with the help of another ghost, Peter, to solve her murder.<br />Considering other young adult horror writers who were writing around the same time, this was a good novel despite some corny elements. Yes, it was very cliched. Yes, it was cheesy at points. But it was complex, was original, and definitely a page turner. Pike was also very good at displaying emotion.<br />You don't feel cold toward the characters. You may even find yourself remembering feeling these same feelings for people in your life. Definitely something that I reread (once again) in the future.	2004-01-25
US	32336537	R26J2DMD0ELX1T	0671872656	816692709	Remember Me 2: The Return	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Very Original	Young adult horror. Continuation of Remember Me. Shari Cooper is still dead (haha). She was the victim of an attack in the first book, but now she's back again. She's given the chance to live life again without being born again. She accepts and is put into the body of a pregnant teen living in poverty, Jean Rodrigues -- who wants to die.<br />After an accident, Jean wakes up in the hospital a changed person, but she starts having weird flashbacks -- I guess they could be called. She starts remembering things that she's never remembered ever hearing or seeing, etc.<br />Again, this is kind of cliched and may seem a little cheesy, but it is a good read, in my opinion. This is my favorite book in the trilogy (even though I haven't read the third one). There isn't as much action as in the first one. I think this one gives the message of hope while focusing on some of the things Shari is going through in the afterlife.	2004-01-25
US	32336537	R1NV1NTJCIZNGI	0345422392	656764231	Vittorio, the Vampire (New Tales of the Vampires)	Books	1	2	4	N	N	Ambitious, that's about all	The story of Vittorio's turning in 15th century (Renaissance) Italy. Vittorio di Riniari's family is killed by a group of ruthless vampires, but he is &quot;spared&quot; by the beautiful Ursula, which as with all Anne Rice books pretty much sparks a love-hate relationship between Vittorio and Ursula. Of course, this all leads to Vittorio being hellbent on getting revenge as well.<br />I admire Anne Rice wanting to write a different story that has nothing to do with Lestat and the gang, but this was just horrible. It seemed promising from the opening, but then fizzled and died into verbose trash that seemed to lose its focus as well as it's entertainment value. It's obvious that she was trying something new (as her writing was a lot wordier than usual), but she failed to impress me with this novel.<br />There are other redeeming qualities for the novel, such as her accurate description of the time period, but other than this, this is a book that can be skipped and dismissed in my opinion. Ambitious, but that's about all it is.	2004-01-21
US	32336537	R25OG5I5DY6TF3	0446670251	437057713	The Virgin Suicides	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Beautifully poetic story	A group of neighborhood boys are obsessed with the Lisbon sisters who begin a downward spiral after the suicide of their sister, Cecilia. The girls hold some sort of feminine mystique over the boys, something about them enthralls the boys, even though the boys know that they're not perfect.<br />They immerse themselves in the sisters lives, collecting things left behind from to live through them. It went much farther than just teenage infatuation. The story is told in the collective voice of the boys' view of  the sisters and their lives up until their eventual suicides.<br />I enjoyed this, not quite as much as &lt;i>Middlesex&lt;/i>, but this was an enjoyable overall read. I watched the movie first when it first came out on DVD, and while I enjoyed it, I felt that so much had been left out, that &lt;i>that&lt;/i> couldn't be all there was to the story, and it wasn't.<br />The story was a complex weave of things stemming from an overbearing mother and passive father to sex. There isn't just one thing that can be pegged for the eventual suicides of the sisters. Everything seemed to work as a whole against them, but then again, sometimes you get the feeling that is isn't the strict household or the teenage troubles that made them decide to kill themselves.<br />You're clued in only through the boys who really only have a limited knowledge themselves of what's going on with those girls. So, the reader is left to pick and choose what might have cause their decision.<br />Parts of this book did seem a little unrealistic. I think it was how sometimes the prose seemed to become too dreamy to be believable, but that may have been the effect that Eugenides was striving for. Overall, the prose was beautiful, the story touching and ominous. An excellent first novel.	2004-01-19
US	32336537	R2P841RQS2DJM7	0316284955	613460974	White Oleander (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Poignant	Astrid Magnussen's mother, Ingrid, is strong, self-relying, and unsympathetic to weakness of any kind. She also has strong rules against love and the way it should properly handled. Ingrid is Astrid's world, everything she knows she learned from her mother, but she finds herself teaching herself to survive when her mother kills a lover (whom she falls in love with, breaking every rule she ever had) who tossed her aside.<br />I didn't expect to like this as much as I did. I watched the movie first and liked it. I was pretty much willing to accept what had been told in the movie, but I am glad that I finally read the novel. It was hard to put this book down. The reader follow Astrid from innocence to maturity. We also see her progress from being the doting daughter to the cynical teen who loves and hates her mother at the same time.<br />She does a lot of growing up in her foster homes, and she learns many things that aid her in the struggle to survive. Ingrid still plays a vital role in Astrid's life even though she's in prison. Ingrid is literally Astrid's world even in the confines of prison. She can still manipulate Astrid's life, even though Astrid tries to prevent that from happening.<br />Astrid and Ingrid's relationship is a complex one even to be a mother-daughter relationship. I didn't agree with some of the decisions that Astrid and her mother made, but life isn't perfect, why should this book be? Issues abound in this book from women's issues, maternal issues, mother-daughter issues, etc.	2004-01-19
US	32336537	R1UNPDLVTUCU7D	0553279912	198755712	A Is for Alibi (A Kinsey Millhone Mystery)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	An okay start to the series;	The first book in the Kinsey Millhone series. Kinsey Millhone is hired by a woman to investigate the murder of her philandering husband who she was tried and convicted of killing. Eight years have went by since his murder, but Kinsey still agrees to take the case.<br />Finally got around to reading this. I enjoyed it more than I thought I would, but I kept getting these weird &quot;Anita Blake&quot;-ish vibes from the book. The heroines are so smiliar in thought to me. Maybe Ms. Hamilton read these books as well? Nothing to deep and thought provoking here. A nice little whodunit, even if the killer was pretty obvious to me.<br />It was nice to see a story where the main focus wasn't the hero's love life, leaving the main plot of the story secondary. I'll definitely check out more in this series.	2004-01-18
US	32336537	R378JY5QU4T6VK	038549081X	709722953	The Handmaid's Tale	Books	5	8	11	N	N	A dystopia where women are second-rate	Started this late last year during banned books week, but gave it away before I finished reading it for BBW. A fellow bookcrosser sent me another copy.<br />This is the story of a future dystopia where women are treated as second-rate citizens with no rights and a choosen few, the handmaids, are only valued because of their ability to conceive children. The women are separated into classes, but still the women in this story have been robbed of their voices and their rights.<br />Women no longer have sovereignty over their bodies. They are no longer allowed to read, own property, money, anything. The story is told through the eyes of Offred, a handmaid, who can still remember the time before.<br />The handmaid's job is to bear children for the Commanders and their Wives. They're seen as \\"valued assests\\" of their country, but it's obvious that most of the other women in the society, especially the wives see them as nothing more than whores.<br />These women are brainwashed, led to believe that many things we see as an assault on women, such as rape, is really the women's fault. They wanted it. They deserved what they got. It's horrifying reading about these women being treated like animals.<br />While the story is largely about the handmaids, Offred's observations of the other women in the society show you that they're really all trapped, regardless of status. They're all treated second-rate, yet instead of banding together, they buy into the propaganda that women should be seen and not heard.<br />Offred doesn't just tell the story of the handmaids. She tells the story of her life before becoming a handmaid, how she became a handmaid, people she remembered in her life before, the way life was before. It's all intricately woven together in one tale.<br />I haven't read a story in a long time that's haunted and chilled me like this story. I'm an avid horror reader, but the story of this society really disturbed me. It left me with a lot to think about, and the ending itself was haunting.g itself was haunting.	2004-01-17
US	32336537	R1NRWNVAUF6Q8K	1573227331	602052020	About a Boy	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Cute	Will Lightman is a 36-year-old, unemployed, but well-off man living in London. He spends his days finding trivial ways to fill his endless amounts of time. He's always fashionable. He always knows what's in. In other words, Will is always on top of the game.<br />Will is also a womanizer, and soon finds the joy of the single mother. When he joins a single parents support group and befriends one of the mothers, he meets Marcus, a 12-year-old who acts much older than his 12 years -- Will's opposite. A friendship is forged, and this, of course, means that changes are made, even if they're not wanted.<br />This was a really cute book. Will is cheeky and sarcastic. Marcus is solemn and serious. And they teach each other about life and how things are, and they have many misadventures along the way. Even when Will tries to get the reader to believe that he doesn't care about Marcus or his messed-up life, it's obvious that the boy holds a soft spot in his heart. And though they are opposites in many aspects, there are a few things that are shared between Will and his young companion, such as their ability to sort of forget that reality exists until the reality of a situation hits them.<br />I saw the movie first, but the book was definitely better than a movie, as they usually are. A lot of questions I had regarding the movie were answered in the book, as they usually are. This was like the male-version of chick-lit. What would that be called? Guy-lit or something? Great reading, enjoyable, will definitely be on the lookout for more Hornby.	2004-01-11
US	32336537	RB07VPSB162TL	0712611649	802231550	Hellfire	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Decent horror	Carolyn Rogers marries Phillip Sturgess -- rich, eligible, successful bachelor with a heart of gold despite his snobbish breeding. Phillip, along with Carolyn's ex-husband, plan on reopening a mill where a group of the town's children burned to death in the late 1800s and has recently become the site of many mysterious accidents. And that's about all the Carolyn and Phillip have to do with the story.<br />The main focus of the story is Beth Rogers, Carolyn's daughter from her first marriage, and Tracey Sturgess, Phillip's daughter from his first marriage. Tracey goes out of her way to make Beth feel unwanted through any means necessary, and Beth finds herself miserable and lonely. Beth befriends a girl-child who died in the fire at the mill (not unlike the girl in Saul's Comes the Blind Fury) who becomes something of a best friend to Beth. Finally, this all comes to head in a &quot;grand finale&quot;.<br />This was a good read, typical early-Saul fare. It shared many similarities with Comes the Blind Fury, but it was different enough to keep me reading. Saul has a way of really making you love and hate his characters. I sort of thought that the ending was a little rushed and the revealed &quot;secret&quot; a little weak, but an enjoyable read still.	2004-01-10
US	32336537	R28SXZOQUSUFA6	0609808974	921930246	Wet: More Aqua Erotica	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Not Bad	A waterproof erotica book, sequel to Aqua Erotica, with the shared theme of &quot;water&quot;. So, in every story, water in its different forms are used as a catalyst for the stories.<br />This wasn't a bad erotica anthology as far as anthologies go. It was hit and miss as with any anthology, but for the most part, I did enjoy the stories. Some of them left me feeling cold, but there were quite a few that made up for some of the lackadaisical stories in the anthology. I think my favorite story in the whole collection was &quot;Sakura&quot;. I did much care for the heroine who I found whiny and very childish, but I did enjoy the tone used in the story by the author.<br />I'll definitely keep this one around. It was entertaining at the most basic of levels, and it was much better than some other themed erotica books I have read.	2004-01-10
US	32336537	R1T0HWDALWP9SP	0804106304	31287929	The Joy Luck Club	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Beautiful.	This is the story of Chinese mother and their daughters. All the mothers originally immigrated from China, and all have faced hardships and challenges, which have made them stronger and wish for something better for their American daughters while instilling in them Chinese values, but their daughters aren't living it up. They're facing their own problems as well, divorce, failure, shortcomings.<br />This was a beautiful story about the complications between mother and daughters. While there are strong Chinese themes, any woman can look beyond this and maybe see their own relationship with their mother. There's so much unspoken between the mothers and daughters in this book. There are so many things they wish to tell each other, to make the other understand. There's a hazy gray area between them that they're trying to overcome.<br />I really enjoyed this book. As I mentioned, it was beautiful. It showed the triumphs and failures of mother and daughter. It touched on the complexity of mother-daughter relationships, how what a mother wants for a daughter may not be the same thing the daughter wants for herself. In fact, there are many complex mother-daughter issues. And the story ends on a note that lets you decide if things got better or worse for the mother and daughters.	2004-01-06
US	32336537	R1G2EWKM1TTF9F	0380002450	110871072	The Awakening	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Beautiful, but contrived	28-year-old Edna Pontellier-married woman, mother of two-who's beginning to feel the clutching hand of constraint on her throat. Edna is artist trapped with no means of letting her creativity flow. A summer trip to Grand Isle changes Edna as she promises to never give herself away and begins to make changes in her life.<br />Edna is the earliest form of the trapped mother and wife. She's a woman who dreams, but feels that she can't possibly live these dreams being mother and wife. She has so many fears and uncertainties, and these are manifested through her moods and her attachment to a man from the Isle and again to a man who lives in the same city as she. It was sad to see Edna drowning under the pressures of her life.<br />However, I felt at times it was lacking and somewhat contrived. In the beginning, I thought Edna to be stronger than she really is, but later in the book I thought Edna to be trite. She made her choices. No one made her marry or have children. She chose to do so, and then she chose to ignore these duties, lavishing her affections on Robert and Alcee.<br />I think this is supposed to be one of the 500 great books written by women. I agree and disagree with that decision. I'm sure during the time this was written (1889) it was a great scandal, and it was probably one of the first books to be written about a married woman who felt trapped. However, I don't see much great about it other than being a founding mother (or should that founding mother) for other books about the same subject.<br />This is a beautiful story, but contrived at times. There are better stories out there concerning the pressures of being a mother and wife, but I give Chopin her due for being one of the first.	2003-12-27
US	32336537	RXRUFF6YTHYN1	0224015567	178273647	In Between the Sheets	Books	2	3	6	N	N	Ho-hum	This is a book of short stories written by Ian McEwan. In a sentence, this book wasn't very good. McEwan's style is engaging, but these stories are not very well-executed in my opinion.<br />I think McEwan was trying to be original and shocking, and while there are many &quot;original&quot; ideas presented, the stories themselves are lacking and leave you with a feeling of cluelessness.<br />As far as shocking goes, this isn't shocking. In fact, some of the ideas seem a little contrived, but I guess everyone starts from somewhere.	2003-12-25
US	32336537	R3G7F6IHU9YQKC	0380813041	709249327	Gotta Get Next to You	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Liked it.	Andrea Noble returns to her hometown of Bayou Blue, Louisiana to take over as the medical director of a clinic after going through a divorce in Chicago. She swears off men, especially those potential player types, so when sexy Jamal Turner starts working at the clinic to help clean up some loose ends, Andrea does her best to avoid Jamal. What she doesn't know is he's more than just a hot computer tech.<br />I don't read a lot of romance these days. Back when I was younger, I went through my stage with romance books, but as I got older I noticed most of it was the same recycled stories over and over again. Very cliched -- for the most part. However, for some reason, I enjoyed this book thoroughly. I won't say that it was different from a lot of the romances I have read, but I will say that material was presented in an interesting way.<br />Who can't love a meddlesome grandmother, a love affair that never should have happened, and a Louisiana bayou backdrop? Not me. That's for sure.	2003-12-22
US	32336537	R2QWVBNJM79FKN	0380789035	337033298	American Gods	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Only the gods are real	Shadow has been in prison three years and is being paroled soon. He's let out early due to his wife's death. With nothing left to go home to, Shadow is approached by a man who calls himself Wednesday who basically wants him to be an &quot;errand boy&quot;, but Shadow's job description goes way beyond that as he travels across the country with Mr. Wednesday. He learns about himself, life, beliefs, and people.<br />This was my first Gaiman novel. I've read some of his comics, but this is the first novel that I've ever read by him, and I must say that I thoroughly enjoyed it. I like mythology, and this presented a whole cast of &quot;godly&quot; characters for me to figure out. That's some of the fun in the book, recognizing mythological characters and saying, &quot;I know who that is!&quot;<br />Despite what Shadow (and others) see as character flaws, he was perhaps one of the most endearing characters that I have ever encountered. Despite what he's been through, despite everything, he seems to have no trouble accepting what he's told by these gods. It's obvious he's a bit skeptical, but the side that believes seems to outweigh the side that doesn't believe.<br />That gives Shadow somewhat of a naive quality. This made him very likable, very human, even though you don't know much about him or his family. You don't even know his real name, but you can tell that he's a good man, and while others think he's big and dumb, you can see that he obviously isn't.<br />And the gods were amusing for the most part, they've &quot;adapted&quot; to the ways of new world by using what they know to get by. So, we have goddesses who are prostitutes, gods that are embalmers, gods that specialize in conning others, and a whole range of gods in between. And you have the new gods--Internet, media, etc--who want to get rid of the old gods.<br />But what really made this story really enjoyable for me was the fact that I was tricked. I'll admit that many of the things in this book is obvious, but while I was paying attention to many minute details, I missed the most obvious thing of all.<br />This book wasn't without flaws like any book. There were some odd sentence structures in the book and sometimes didn't even seem necessary, but the sheer force of what a good book this is made most of that easy to overlook. I will definitely reread this in the future., but while I was paying attention to many minute details, I missed the most obvious thing of all. <br />This book wasn't without flaws like any book. There were some odd sentence structures in the book and sometimes didn't even seem necessary, but the sheer force of what a good book this is made most of that easy to overlook. I will definitely reread this in the future.	2003-12-21
US	32336537	R1T7O0519J8HWP	1932045139	393786842	The Vampire Slayers' Field Guide to the Undead	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Excellent	I thought I would go ahead and write a review of this since this is one of those books that you don't necessarily read from front cover to back cover. You're more likely to skip around in a book like this. That's what I've been doing, skipping around, reading what interests me most.<br />I am a long time fan of anything vampire-related. I read my first vampire book at age 11, and I haven't looked back since. Since then, I have encountered many legends, myths, and beliefs about vampire. This book puts many, if not all, those beliefs in one source. You learn about vampires from different regions of the world from A-to-Z. Vampires aren't the only preternatural presented in this book. You also learn about d'loup garou (werewolf), demons, dhampirs, protective stones, etc.<br />My only gripe with the book is this. The sections dealing with how vampires are made was a little sparse in my opinion. I did like how he used the lore that different countries believe regarding the making of a vampire, but he only mention in a passing paragraph how a vampire is made due to a bite because there seems to be a lot of different beliefs on how that works as well. All in all, though, this is an excellent book. Very informative and definitely entertaining.	2003-12-20
US	32336537	R3P6RE3N29U3O0	0312422156	298109609	Middlesex: A Novel	Books	5	2	3	N	N	&quot;I was born twice...&quot;	I think the beginning lines of this story sums up what it's about nicely, so that's what I will use:<br />&quot;I was born twice: first as a baby girl on a remarkably smogless Detroit day of 1960; and then again, as a teenage boy in an emergency room near Petoskey, Michigan, in August of 1974.&quot; -- Calliope/Cal Stephanides<br />This was such a great book. The first chapter was sort of off-putting for me. In the begining the prose shifted between straight-forward and flowery, epic descriptions. Even the narrator, Cal, said his writing was Homeric and that it was genetic. But as Cal explain his history starting with his grandparents trials in the old country and their eventual movement to America in the 20's, you become more and more involved with his story.<br />We follow his grandparents (who were related) and his parents (who were also related) through their lives, watching what led up to what and who Cal was. We watch what shaped his relatives -- values from the old country, values from the new, war, racial tension, etc. So, the reader gets so much more than just a story about a hermaphrodite. You get to feel like you're a friend of the family. We're also treated to breaks where Cal talks about his budding relationship with a woman named Julie. By his own admission, Cal &quot;loves 'em and leaves 'em&quot;.<br />I don't even know what to say about this book really. It's fascinating. As one of my friends says about the book, &quot;I don't know if I like this, but it is enthralling. I couldn't stop reading it.&quot; This was my first time reading anything by Eugenides. I watched Virgin Suicides, and I have that book, as well, but I think the material presented in this book is what made me pick this book up before The Virgin Suicides.	2003-12-17
US	32336537	R1DG4C30CAQVI2	0451160312	444406044	I Never Promised You a Rose Garden	Books	4	15	16	N	N	Thoroughly enjoyed	Young adult reading about a mentally ill 16-year-old girl who endures 3 years in a mental hospital. The story is told mostly from Deborah Blau's, the 16-year-old girl, point of view.<br />Deborah's mental illness established early in her life due to pent up rage, frustration, and the pain of not being accepted in life, among other things. Because of this rejection by the world, she created in her mind Yr, a fantasy land where she could escape the harsh realities of life, but Yr slowly turned into a place none-too-nice that held her captive in her mind.<br />I loved this book for the simple fact that we're allowed to see things from Deborah's point of view. Few books do that. Usually, we're presented with a view from someone who's sane, thus sealing the prejudices and pity associated with the mentally ill. People tend to forget that the patients are still human, preferring to ostracize them because of their state-of-mind. This story presents the patients at people, and they are surprisingly astute and introspective despite their illness, and they are aware of what people who don't have an illness thinks of them.<br />Deborah's story is a fascinating one. She works with a gifted psychiatrist to overcome Yr and its gods, which hurts her when she tries to tell the secrets of their world. We follow her sickness, her stages of recovery, and her eventual reintroduction to the world. It was nice to read a book that wasn't a horror that presented a view of mental illness. My lack to rate it higher comes from the fact that parts of the book were lacking in my opinion, but that doesn't void out the fact that book was a good read.	2003-12-17
US	32336537	R27ZZLDM9AFPGO	006105657X	894362714	Twice Bitten (Love in Vein II: Eighteen More Tales of Vampire Erotica)	Books	3	2	3	N	N	An okay vampire anthology	Firstly, the book wasn't bad, but it wasn't exceptional either. Its claim of being \\"erotic\\" are a little premature. Sure, some of the stories are sexy, but not too many are erotic, and some are just borderline crude (as in bad sex crude, not stimulating crude). I even had to skip over one story (but I came back to it eventually) because it was just that bad.<br />There are some exceptional stories in the book such as Gaiman's short story and Brian Hodge's novella The Dripping of Sundered Wineskin, but most of the stories are only mediocre, and while they're not completely horrible, they're nothing to call home about. If you collect vampire stories as I do, then this isn't a bad addition to the collection, but if you're looking for good vampire erotica, I suggest looking elsewhere.	2003-12-09
US	32336537	RH2RC8CSFPDG8	0060987324	831264929	Girlfriend in a Coma	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Girlfriend in a Coma. I know. I know. It's really serious.	Liked this much better than Generation X. 17-year-old Karen goes into a 17-year-coma after having sex with her boyfriend. Talk about ways to scare you into not having sex. Well, she didn't go to sleep immediately afterwards, but she was really insistent on the two of them having sex. Before she slips into her coma, Karen tells her boyfriend, Richard, that she saw the future. Karen goes into a 17-year-coma, and wakes up to find her boyfriend still waiting and a daughter. She seems perfectly normal when she wakes, except she talks about the world coming to an end.<br />The first half of the book basically revolves around the people in Karen's life after she goes into the coma, the second part deals with life after her reawakening, and the third part, well, you don't want me to give that away do you?<br />This still had the same \\"what is the meaning of this sad, sad life?\\" theme, but I think it was much better presented in this book. And if you've read GenX, you'll notice some parallels with some of the characters (Hamilton equals Dag, Richard equals Andy, and Pam equals Claire), but all-in-all the story is pretty good. I like how Coupland manages to make you think without overwhelming you or depressing you.<br />What I didn't like was the fact that book was somewhat anticlimatic. Well, it's one of those endings you'll love and hate, and I'm sure, after mulling over it a few days, I'll like it better	2003-11-11
US	32336537	R2E8E77XOBAIV1	0684835665	709047711	Flyy Girl	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Enjoyable	This is one of my favorite books. I've probably read like a thousand times seriously. This a coming of age story (is there a trend in my reading?) of an African-American girl, Tracy Ellison. Tracy is one of those girls who used what she has to get what she wants. She knows how to manipulate situations to her advantage. Along the way, though, Tracy learns some very valuable lessons about life.<br />This was such a cute book. There are many serious themes, but a lot of the things Tracey went through I can remember going through with my own friends. In fact, Tracy reminds me of one of my best friends, Nikki. This books revolves a lot around young sexuality and the love of material things. Tracy grows up feeling jealous and sorry for her friend Raheema who has no interest in boys and wants to make something of her life. Tracey however does mature and learn that there are more things to live than material things.<br />Tyree did an excellent job of making me love and hate Tracy. His prose was realistic, and a lot of the vernacular he used was true. Excellent story.	2003-11-05
US	32336537	R1M326467VDRDA	0425162443	139645956	The Rapture of Canaan	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Whee Jesus!	This is the story of Ninah Huff, the granddaughter of the founder of the Church of Fire and Brimstone and God's Almighty Baptizing Wind. Say that three times fast. I dare ya! Basically, the people of the congregation spend their time striving to do the \\"Lord's good\\" while denying themselves earthly pleasures (No TV, very little free time, you get the picture) because they don't want to be stuck on earth when the good Lord comes back. To avoid earthly sins, the members of the church are known to inflict pain upon themselves such as sleeping on nettles or walking on pecan shells.<br />The story is also told from Ninah's POV. She's a young girl struggling with religion and life in general. She questions what she is being taught in her community, but at the same time, she feels ashamed and guilty of the changes going through her -- particularly her attraction to a boy named James. Despite, Ninah and James's efforts to avoid temptation and sin, the two come together in the biblical sense, and the outcome tears their little community apart.<br />I thought this was a very beautiful story following the trials and tribulations of not only a teenager growing up under such strict beliefs but the desires of the heart and flesh, the questioning of religious beliefs. Ninah makes such a transition in this story. She goes from a timid teenage girl to a young woman who knows her heart and believes that God's love comes from more than just pain. She finds strength when so many obstacles stood in her way. She forces a community to change, to face it's hypocrisy, and above all, Ninah finds a sense of self.<br />I also loved the characters in this book. They were so beautifully drawn out. You could imagine them vividly. Everyone from Ninah to Corinthian, the woman who the community considers a backsliding whore. You feel for these people. You can probably think of people who share some similar attributes. Maybe not as religious, but we all know drama-queens and people who strive to please others.<br />Ninah's story is so heart-wrenching, but beautifully written. I could not put this book down, and I already want to read it again. All I have to say to that is, \\"Whee, Jesus.\\"ase others. <br />Ninah's story is so heart-wrenching, but beautifully written. I could not put this book down, and I already want to read it again. All I have to say to that is, \\"Whee, Jesus.\\"	2003-10-30
US	32336537	R4NPSPH834CEE	0679735771	92932803	American Psycho	Books	3	3	8	N	N	All the gore killed the shock value	This book revolves around 26-year-old Patrick Bateman, a successful Manhattan yuppie. He seems normal enough in the beginning of the story, but soon the readers come to realize that Bateman is more than just a little psycho. I liked the movie way better than I liked this book, but the book was... addictive. This book was just awful. I think I've said that 1,000 times now. This book was so awful I had to keep reading it. It was mesmerizing. It was like looking at a car crash. It's horrible, but you can't stop looking.<br />The obsessive name-dropping and label-whoring annoyed me to no end and the intricate detail of shallow habits was enough to kill me. But I had to know what was going to happen. Add a very anticlimatic ending and feeling of \\"What's the point?\\" after it's all over with. I confess that I also skimmed over some of the gorier scenes because it all become redundant and not very shocking after a while. Honestly, I can't think of anything or anyone I actually liked in this book. Reading about pretentious rich people usually doesn't render very many likable moments.<br />There was one scene that made me die in fits of laughter, and now, I can't remember what it was. Damn, it was the one scene that made me smile. Anyway, this is one of those books that you get something out of with each read. I plan on rereading it in the (distant) future. I feel like I've probably missed small details, and perhaps, I'll enjoy this more in the future.	2003-10-29
US	32336537	R15U6QVZPOHD1Y	031205436X	778768680	Generation X: Tales for an Accelerated Culture	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Hm, not bad.	Coincidentally, the first novel I read by Coupland also happens to be the first novel he wrote. It follows the lives of Andy, Dag, and Claire. Late 20-ish adults who are living in the desert, doing basically nothing with their lives but telling each other stories. The story is told from Andy's point of view.<br />This novel sent me through a gamut of emotions. I called it everything from pretentious to decent. It had the ability to depress while entertaining. I found the beginning dreadfully dull to the point that I didn't know if I would continue or not, and I didn't truly get into the book until the introduction of Elvissa and Tobias. After that, the stories they told one another seemed to get better.<br />At first, I thought the characters were just pathetic. They didn't seem to have any ambition and all they did was tell each other stories. In fact, I will paste what I wrote in my personal journal about this book. I asked Nick (my friend) if he thought this is what our parents do? Do they sit around waxing nostalgic by making up stories about people, stories that correlate to their own miserable life?<br />The characters in the book are--or should be if they aged--around the age of my own parents. One character in the book said he was 15 in the late seventies. Hell, my mother wasn't 15 until the early 80's, making him technically older than her. Yes, I have very young parents, considering that I am 21. But I digress.<br />Then, an even scarier thought came to us. Would we act like them at that age? Would we get fed up with a no-end job and move to the west coast to live in bungalow-style houses and work a dead end job? Would the burden of being adults kill our spirit and make us run for the hills? Would we sit around one day telling apocalyptic stories about the end of the world because maybe, just maybe, we wouldn't mind if the world did just that -- end?<br />Things did get better for the characters, if better is the right choice of wording, at the end for the characters. They all seemed to have a sort of epiphany (with Claire's ability to get over her obsession being my favorite). While this novel didn't just make gape in awe (and I think a lot of that had do with the fact of my age), I do think that Coupland is a talented writer, and I do look forward to reading some of his other works.the characters. They all seemed to have a sort of epiphany (with Claire's ability to get over her obsession being my favorite). While this novel didn't just make gape in awe (and I think a lot of that had do with the fact of my age), I do think that Coupland is a talented writer, and I do look forward to reading some of his other works.	2003-10-26
US	32336537	R32RPXRBEJH1SL	0440945151	654097905	Killing Mr. Griffin	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Good, but forgettable	Young Adult reading. I watched this movie at the end of August. I didn't realize that it was based on a book until Banned Books Week rolled around and I saw it on the list. So, I went out searching for this book.<br />Basically, a group of teens plot to play a prank on their tight-ass English teacher. They didn't expect him to end up dead. I'm sure we all imagined wanting to get rid of a teacher that we didn't (or don't) like. These kids did. Though, his death wasn't part of the plan (at least not to most of them).<br />This is typical YA reading pre-the teenage angst revolution. There isn't much character development and many of the characters fall into cliched roles such as the popular cheerleader and the mousy A student and the straight-edge class president.<br />However, this really is an intriguing story for the simple fact that we do want know what will happen when they kidnap their teacher and then once the worse case scenario has happened, we watch as they fall into a spiral lies and deception.<br />I'm glad that I watched the movie first or else, I would have totally hated it. If I watch a movie before I read a book, I don't feel as disappointed in it as when I read a book and then watch a movie. Anyhow, this book differs in many ways from its movie counterpart.<br />Good, but like most young adult books of that era totally forgettable	2003-10-24
US	32336537	RGAF5CWINB77V	0930044681	628305635	Torchlight to Valhalla	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Beautiful story	Early 20th century (1938) lesbian literature. This was a painfully beautiful novella revolving around a young woman named Morgen Tuetenberg. In the beginning of the story, Morgen is caring for her sick father, the renowned painter, Fritz Tuetenberg. During a walk, she meets a pianist named, Royal St. Gabriel, who falls for her at first sight. The death of Morgen's father leaves her empty, and Royal wishes to fill this emptiness, but Morgen doesn't feel truly complete until Toni enters her life.<br />This story dragged a little in the beginning, but not for long. This story runs a gauntlet of emotions from love to grief to indifference. With this being so short, you seem to be watching strangers. You don't have much of a chance to get too intimate for the characters. You care for them, but only in that detached way.<br />I think the strong point in this story was the theme of human emotion and love. I was rooting for Royal. I really liked the guy, but love is capricious and Morgen had to do what made her happy. I think she did start to love Royal, but he still wasn't what she needed to fill that void.<br />There really isn't too much more that could be said about this book without giving it away, so I'll just stop trying to find the right words to describe it. If you ever get hands on a copy, definitely read it. It's a touching story.	2003-10-24
US	32336537	R2Q3UC37FHBTX4	0393315819	604983605	Ecstasy	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Chemical Love	This book contains three stories that revolve around romance and Ecstasy among other things.<br />Lorraine Goes to Livingston is the first story. It was titled a \\"Rave and Regency\\" romance. Famed regency romance novel writer Rebecca Navarro (who writes stories such as Lucy Goes to Liverpool and Yasmin Goes to Yeovil) has a stroke, which jolts her out of her dreamworld. When she actually takes a look at reality, she realizes that her husband is a prick who's using her for her money, and he uses her money for all forms of debauchery. She, along with the help of a nurse -- Lorraine, plan revenge on her dear husband.<br />This was my favorite story in the whole book. The next two stories are powerful, especially the one following this one, but this one held the most value to me. When you first meet Rebecca, you don't really like her much, but you feel empathy for her. And Lorraine is one of those characters that you can relate to. She's a single woman who has questions about her sexuality and wishes that everyone would stop trying to force love down her throat. Then, of course with this being your typical Irvine story, you have drug abuse, raves, and some bizarre sex practices (bestiality and necrophilia for this particular story).<br />Fortune's Always Hiding is the second story and is subtitled \\"A Corporate Drug Romance\\". The story revolves around a woman, who was the unfortunate victim of a drug marketed in the 60's, and a man, who's obsessed with soccer (or fitba, as they commonly say ;Þ). The woman is hell-bent on revenge and the man is in love and would do anything for her.<br />Another powerful story revolving around revenge, but this time it's against a big corporation who refuses to take responsibility for destroying people's lives. They've given money, but they aren't truly remorseful about their actions. I loved how Welsh jumped back and forth giving us tiny portions of what happened to the woman, Samantha. This one is my second favorite story in the book as well.<br />The Undefeated, an Acid House Romance, is about a jobless, drug dealer-slash-raver named Lloyd, and a unhappy, sexually frustrated housewife named Heather.<br />There's not a lot that I can say for this story. Most of the story is spent following their everyday struggles and few pages are actually dedicated to their meeting up. Lloyd's side of things didn't interest me all that much. It was interesting at times, but most times, I found his commentary lacking. Heather's side of things was quite fascinating though. It was just something about reading about her going from \\"good\\" Heather to \\"bad\\" Heather that really kept me reading her chapters.<br />It seems like I liked the stories in the order they were written. I loved the first and was only partially impressed by the last, even though, I did really love the hopeful ending we get at the end of the last story. Yeah, I'll admit the characters aren't all that drawn out, but this is only a 275 page book. What do you expect? Shrek's analysis? A wonderful addition for people who collect Welsh's off-beat works.as well.<br />The Undefeated, an Acid House Romance, is about a jobless, drug dealer-slash-raver named Lloyd, and a unhappy, sexually frustrated housewife named Heather. <br />There's not a lot that I can say for this story. Most of the story is spent following their everyday struggles and few pages are actually dedicated to their meeting up. Lloyd's side of things didn't interest me all that much. It was interesting at times, but most times, I found his commentary lacking. Heather's side of things was quite fascinating though. It was just something about reading about her going from \\"good\\" Heather to \\"bad\\" Heather that really kept me reading her chapters. <br />It seems like I liked the stories in the order they were written. I loved the first and was only partially impressed by the last, even though, I did really love the hopeful ending we get at the end of the last story. Yeah, I'll admit the characters aren't all that drawn out, but this is only a 275 page book. What do you expect? Shrek's analysis? A wonderful addition for people who collect Welsh's off-beat works.	2003-10-20
US	32336537	R97W4Y1ZAND42	044100900X	301706376	Jenna Starborn	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Ho-hum	This book is the futuristic retelling of the story Jane Eyre, which is one of my all-time favorite books. I went into this book knowing that, and while I expected man similarities, I thought the author would have at least try to give the book a bit of distinction.<br />If I wanted to read Jane Eyre, I'd pick up Jane Eyre. What I expected was the Jane Eyre story with some added twists. I would have enjoyed it more had there been some plot twists, but there weren't. Too bad.	2003-10-19
US	32336537	R18TCTH0H3CJ6K	0440226430	902500282	Summer Sisters	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Beautiful, nostalgic book	This book spans the relationship of two girls -- the wealthy Caitlin and the underprivileged Vix. This follows them from the summer of 1977 to the summer of 1996. Cait and Vix meet in school when Cait asks Vix to accompany her to her father's house in the Vineyard. After that, Caitlin's life was never the same again. Vix is smart, observant, maybe even a little shy while Caitlin is vivacious, outgoing, and opinionated.<br />Most of the book is told from Vix's POV with subchapters from some of the supporting characters POV. However, Caitlin never gets a subchapter. We're left to figure her out from Vix's reactions to her and the reactions of the other characters. Caitlin gets a lot of reaction for her &quot;don't care&quot; attitude.<br />This book is about so much more than the relationship between two friends. It also focused on the complexities of relationships between women, women and men, between parents and children, etc. And then, there's the usual growing pains mixed into this story making it an excellent read.<br />A few things that annoyed me with this story was the contrived ending. It seemed almost as if Blume was trying to make her readers feel sorry for Caitlin. I didn't. I felt more sorry for Vix.<br />And another personal grievance was the way that Vix kept on forgiving even when Cait did the unthinkable. I think this irked me because I know firsthand what it's like to keep forgiving a person who keeps breaking your heart.<br />Other than that, loved this book. I read it in one sitting. This book made me nostalgic for some of my own friends.	2003-10-19
US	32336537	R1M0SX9M6HN03X	067088796X	336544293	Me: by Jimmy (Big Boy) Valente	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Eh, it was okay.	There really isn't a lot that can be said about this book. I read this for a bookring on bookcrossing. This is a satire of wresting, war, and politics. The mayor of Minnesota Jimmy Valente (a Jesse Ventura rip-off) tells his story of how he went from a scrawny adopted kid to a heart throb war veteran to a wrestling legend to a governor.<br />It was a light, quick read that didn't take a lot of thinking. It was amusing, not laugh out loud funny, but it kept my interest. As a wrestling fan, I found it enjoyable.	2003-10-08
US	32336537	R1FXWH3EWSR247	0440180295	837891915	Slaughterhouse-Five (Modern Library 100 Best Novels)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The Children's Crusade	Wonderful book. In a nutshell, this books is a novel in a novel. The book starts following the \\"author\\" who is wrote a story about Dredsen -- a famous bombing during WWII. The main character in his book is man who is able to move about in time as he will. That probably sounds a little confusing, but that's the best way I can describe it.<br />This book doesn't glamorize war. In fact, it's a very anti-war book. It doesn't make the people in the war look like heroes with an unhealthy lust for defending their countries. Most of the characters were just human. Some were too old, too young, too cowardly for war. They questioned the need for war, but still they had no way to stop it. Many were too young for the war hence the sub-title \\"The Children's Crusade\\".<br />But the book isn't just about war. Some might see it as a SciFi book (the time traveling). We see the character, Billy Pilgrim, in various stages of his life, his birth, his marriage, his wife's death, etc. This book is also slightly cheeky in nature. Some might see it as a satire. There are many things going on in this book making it one of those book that you have to read more than once to catch different subplots.<br />Vonnegut has a style that tends to ramble, and I can see why that would annoy some people. The story also could be a little confusing, and one might question the point, but it made perfect sense to me. I enjoy this book muchly.	2003-10-05
US	32336537	R33U335IIJ00UO	0399501487	502818647	Lord of the Flies	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Review:	In high school, I remember thanking my lucky stars that I didn't have to read this. My friends all whined about it, and I considered myself lucky that I didn't have to endure the torture. Now that I've read this book, I feel like I missed out. I would have enjoyed reading and discussing this book in high school.<br />Lord of the Flies is the story of a group of English boys who are planed wrecked on an deserted island. The oldest of the children are around 12-years-old, and the youngest around 6-years-old.<br />It amazed me how so many of the boys didn't even realize what was giong on. I realize they are children and it probably seemed like an adventure, but it seems like they would have been aware that they had an accident. They seemed so &quot;unaware&quot; of what happened. At first, the boys saw their getaway from the adults as an adventure, but as the story progresses they start to delve into the &quot;darkness in their heart&quot;.<br />I don't even know where to begin with this books. There are so many themes that could be adressed. You could look at humans innately animalistic nature (that doesn't make them much better than animals), you could look at how the boys &quot;society&quot; paralleled the war-stricken world they lived in, or you could ponder on the &quot;loss of innocence&quot;. Golding managed to pack many themes ranging from psychological matters to the relationship between people.<br />I truly enjoyed this book. It's one of those books that you have to read more than once (or once very slowly) to grasp the many different elements presented to you. The only thing that I didn't like about this book is how Golding seemed to sometimes ramble about the landscape. Don't get me wrong. I wanted to know about the island, but he seemed to go on and on about one thing, and I would wonder if it would ever end.	2003-09-29
US	32336537	R1IM8T1K1ZUL5W	0553279378	146946583	I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings	Books	5	13	16	N	N	Review:	This books is the first of five books written about Maya Angelou (born Marguerite Johnson) chronicling her own life. She--and her brother Bailey--were sent to the Jim Crow South to live with their grandmother at a very young age. In this book, we follow her from childhood in Stamps, Arkansas to adulthood in WWII San Francisco.<br />I don't know why I haven't read this book sooner. I admire Maya Angelou as a speaker and a poet, but it took something like Banned Books Week to make me get off my ass and read this book. I've had this book for a couple of years. I remember there was an excerpt from this book in my English 101 book when I first started college. I kept telling myself that I was going to read it soon, and I finally have.<br />I can see why the subject matter would concern some people, but I don't think this should be pulled from schools. I don't believe that she ever intended for this to be on a school's reading list, but it is (on some), and I think that it should stay there. It doesn't glorify racism or sexual abuse. Instead, it seems to teach a lesson and speak warnings.<br />Angelou's writing was candid. She didn't hold back about her life and the hardships that she encountered. She shares an honest view on racism and sexual abuse. The writing takes on a more personal tone that makes it easy to read. And of course, this was all related with a eloquent, poetical prose style that is uniquely Angelou.	2003-09-25
US	32336537	R3817JTD8MS61	0670032549	511631376	The Gunslinger (The Dark Tower, Book 1)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Not my favorite in the series	This is the first book in the Dark Tower series, and my personal least favorite book in the series. I read this when I was in high school, or was that junior high? Either way, I read this book when I was really young. I didn't like the story much then. It seemed like a painstaking process getting through the mundane beginning. Recently, I read the revised version of this book.<br />The Gunslinger is the story of Roland of Gilead. Roland is a gunslinger in a world that is dead (or dying, depending on the reader's point of view). He is chasing the man in black, who Roland believes knows all the secrets of the Dark Tower. He plans on making this ambiguous man tell him what he wants to know about the tower.<br />This story still started off pretty slow for me. I was almost tempted to put it down, but I stuck it out. The action picks up after a few pages though, but it's not consistent. You get a little action, then bits that could bore you to tears, then more action. It's not an awful read by far. This story is essential in introducing you to a desolate world, to Roland, to the man in black, etc.<br />I really love how King can make the despair and desolation of the land so tangible in a reader's mind. I could imagine the land with a vividness. When I first read this, I don't remember feeling as blown away by some of the descriptions as I feel now. I, also, enjoyed how bits and pieces of the hero's life is scattered throughout the book. Though as my friend pointed out the book can be very confusing at parts.<br />Sometimes, King would suddenly shift into a flashback, and at first, you wouldn't even realize it. Then, it could get quite wordy in a couple of places that didn't really need to be. A dictionary is a nice asset to have while reading this book, too. I had no idea what a poultice was until I read this book.<br />Anyhow, I probably won't read this book a third time, but I enjoyed it much more this time. I always thought that King did a good job of mixing different genres (horror, fantasy, western, sci-fi) with this - and the rest of the books in the series. Not a bad revision for a novel that nearly ended up in my grandparents fireplace almost a decade ago.t genres (horror, fantasy, western, sci-fi) with this - and the rest of the books in the series. Not a bad revision for a novel that nearly ended up in my grandparents fireplace almost a decade ago.	2003-09-25
US	32336537	R3CM6M159MND4T	0786890436	781732773	The Diary of Ellen Rimbauer: My Life at Rose Red	Books	4	3	4	N	N	A beautiful lie	I recently watched Stephen King's Rose Red on DVD. Unfortunately, I had missed the mini-series when came on ABC, so I ended up getting the DVD from a friend to watch, who never came to reclaim the DVD. I watched the interview that was on the DVD and found out that Rose Red was indeed a real house. Then, there was mention of Ellen Rimbauer's, the mistress of Rose Red, diary being found. It was edited and being sold. I liked the movie very much, and I was anxious to read the journal.<br />Ellen Rimbauer was the wife of a unfaithful older man named John (I think his name was) Rimbauer. He's built an extravagant house that seems to have taken on a mind of its own. Though, no one wants to believe that. The house seems to hate men, which is evident through their mysterious, violent deaths, and wants to harbor the women forever (evident through the disappearances of the women rather than their deaths). The house was built on an old Native American burial ground, but there's something more there. Ellen feels that this is her doing in some way. She has often prayed that bad things would happen to his husband due to his raging libido, and now, she feels that she's created a monster that needs the blood of men to keep growing. Rooms appear and disappear. Stairs and hallways appear where there were prviously none. The house is a living thing, and it's vengeful.<br />All I have to say about this book is that it's a beautiful lie. I'll admit when I heard about the diary on the DVD I thought it would be genuine, but when I read it, I realized it was all just a farce. While I thought the &quot;diary&quot; was interesting, I never once believed that it was real. There's just a feel of realism that you get from diaries, and I never got that from this book. I also don't believe that Stephen King wrote it. It was too poetically verbose to really be his writing. Stephen King has a distinctive way of writing, and this is not it.<br />This is definitely an interesting read. I enjoyed reading about the trials of Ellen and her handmaid (and best friend) Sukeena, an African medicine woman. It was nice to see Ellen go from being a naive &quot;child&quot; to a strong woman. But please, don't go into this book a.) believing it's real and/or b.)believing this is King's work.ading about the trials of Ellen and her handmaid (and best friend) Sukeena, an African medicine woman. It was nice to see Ellen go from being a naive &quot;child&quot; to a strong woman. But please, don't go into this book a.) believing it's real and/or b.)believing this is King's work.	2003-09-21
US	32336537	R146MGGECT89WD	0440226104	337409677	Black and Blue: A Novel (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Black and Blue Review	Frances Benedetto has just escaped from a brutal marriage. She didn't escape for herself but for her 10-year-old son Robert Benedetto. She was once a life-loving nursing student, but once she married Bobby Benedetto, her world changed for the worse. She feared leaving because of the sense of &quot;normalcy&quot; that home meant, but she fears more for her son who seems to be bearing a great burden for his age.<br />So, she runs with the help of an organization run by a woman named Patty Bancroft's, who can make women &quot;disappear&quot; in the great expanse we know as America. Fran Benedetto becomes Elizabeth Crenshaw, recently divorced mother of Robert Crenshaw, but she knows that Bobby will find her. It's only a matter of time.<br />When I started reading this book, I realized that the plot sounded similiar, and I was suddenly able to conjure up faces to go with the names. Then, I realized that I had seen this movie on Lifetime, but I hadn't correlated movie to book. I'm glad that I had a chance to experience the book. By reading the book, more of Fran's life was exposed to me -- more so than what was shown in the movie.<br />This was a chillingly beautiful story of a heroine broken inside and out by the years of abuse that she suffered at the hands of her husband. It started with him grabbing her arms, leaving behind bruises. She thought it was just &quot;love&quot;. He wouldn't hurt her if he didn't love her, right? It then escalated to punches, slaps, and even rape.<br />The story starts the day Fran had decided to run, and we're only shown fragments of Fran's former life through flashbacks. In the present, Fran is trying to cope with her situation, trying to provide for her son when she's worse off than before, trying to cope with the fact that she may not be able to hide forever from her husband (who is a cop). She's trying to make life for her son and herself as normal as possible. She forms new relationships, even a new love interest peeks over the horizon, but her initial interest in is spawned by the need to feel safe.<br />This story is touching an terrifying all at the same time. I really admire Quindlen's ability to write a scene. She doesn't come right out and tell you that he raped her or he caused her to miscarry. Instead, she paints a portrait of words for you that allows you to see the terror as it happens, and only when it's over do you realize what she's trying to say. Like King's Rose Madder, it's a very realistic view of spousal abuse, but unlike King's books, there are no fantastical elements to aid the heroine, and there are no false promises of a happily ever after in this book.izon, but her initial interest in is spawned by the need to feel safe. <br />This story is touching an terrifying all at the same time. I really admire Quindlen's ability to write a scene. She doesn't come right out and tell you that he raped her or he caused her to miscarry. Instead, she paints a portrait of words for you that allows you to see the terror as it happens, and only when it's over do you realize what she's trying to say. Like King's Rose Madder, it's a very realistic view of spousal abuse, but unlike King's books, there are no fantastical elements to aid the heroine, and there are no false promises of a happily ever after in this book.	2003-09-21
US	32336537	R19SF58FIYFHK4	014028009X	738261988	Bridget Jones's Diary: A Novel	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Witty	I figured I'd better go ahead and write my review of this book since I'm about to pick up the sequel to it. I loved this book. This is the book that started it all. Since Bridget Jones's Diary swept the globe, many writers have tried to &quot;borrow&quot; the premise, but nothing compares to the book that started it all.<br />I read the UK edition, so I was thrown off a little by the weight thing (which is in stones in the UK edition), but I got that all cleared out. Bridget Jones is a 30-something, single woman who's hoping to make a change in her life. She wants to smoke less, lose weight, and find the man of her dreams. She chronicles these hopes in her journal, and the result is hilarious.<br />This book is just a bit of light reading, and anyone woman, regardless of age or nationality, can relate to many of Bridget's age. Bridget is funny, smart, and cheeky.<br />She has a complicated relationship with her mother, and she has a complicated relationship with men. She gives her friends advice that she doesn't take herself, regrets not saying what's really on her mind, and cooks horribly. She's easy to relate to, and she's real. I will admit that there was a part near the ending, the scene where her mother got in trouble, that seemed a little farfetched, but it can be a overlooked.<br />There isn't much more to say about this book except it's fast paced and amusing. And now, I can't wait to get started on the second book.	2003-09-19
US	32336537	R3M0T1M4STSLZS	0140298479	787771217	Bridget Jones: The Edge of Reason: A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Cute.	This is the continuation of Bridget Jones's Diary. It starts four weeks after the end of its predecessor. Bridget is still the same calorie counting, self-help book guru that she was in the last book, now she is in a thriving relationship with an adult male. But of course, things can't be that easy. Once again, Bridget tries to figure out her relationship with the man she loves, her parents, her peers, and co-workers.<br />Honestly, I thought Bridget lost some of her bravado. That doesn't mean the book wasn't good, but I always saw Bridget being a little \\"stronger\\", if you will, that she appeared in this book. Fielding also had a field day making fun of self-help dating book (cheeky satire at best). Bridget and her friends were more obsessed than ever with them, and it did get a little annoying at times. Although I like Bridget, I had to agree with a statement that was made in the book about wanting a person who knew their own mind instead of relying on what self-help books tell them they should do.<br />And I didn't think this book was nearly as amusing as the last. I wouldn't say these books are laugh out loud funny, but they do make me smile a majority of the time. Can't wait until the next one comes out. I'm still interested in seeing how things end for Bridget.	2003-09-19
US	32336537	R161N19YSPKCVY	0553277537	468229732	Dandelion Wine (Grand Master Editions)	Books	2	5	13	N	N	Pretty words, that's all this story is.	1928. It was a good summer. Too bad it wasn't a good read. I'm surprised I even made it through this book at all. This book follows 12-year-old Douglas Spaulding during the summer of 1928. Yes, Ray wrote it, but there's no book burning or aliens in this book. It basically focuses on Doug's self-discovery.<br />I love Ray Bradbury's stories, but this just killed me. I'm originally from a small town, so I know how Doug felt when the summer rolled around. Running through the grass barefoot, picking grapes, tasting the first ripened blackberries of the season, I experienced it all as a child, and while that brought back many fond memories, the story itself did not have the ability to capture my attention fully.<br />Ray Bradbury has a beautiful poetic way with his writing, but most of the time, it seemed like he was using his vast knowledge of dictionary words to fill pages rather than relate a story to the readers. There doesn't seem to be much of a plot. It's just a series of events put together with some pretty words. I found that huge chunks of this book was largely uninteresting and tedious to get through.<br />I know many people will disagree with this. Many people enjoyed this book, and that's cool. But for me, this book was just a killjoy. This was more like a chore than an enjoyable reading experience. This book made me remember a lot of good times back home. I even called an old childhood friend after reading this book, but I honestly don't see myself picking this up again.<br />It was a nice book to make me relive my own summer memories, but that's about it. Perhaps, this is one of those books that I have to read more than once to fully appreciate. At least I found some great new adjectives to use.	2003-09-18
US	32336537	R950QBEYR0EAJ	0393318680	603345732	Filth	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Filthy indeed.	Welsh held true to his title. This book was indeed full of filth. This dark comedy seems to mixed with a warning for those following down the same path as the &quot;hero&quot;. The book is written in Scottish vernacular, which provides a more &quot;realistic&quot; reading session. It's almost as if Bruce himself is in fact telling you all these things.<br />We're introduced to D.S. Bruce Robertson, a racist, misogynistic Scottish cop leading the investigation of the murder of the son of a Ghanaian ambassador. This poses a problem for Bruce seeing as he doesn't have time to be worrying about &quot;topped coons&quot;. He's more interesting sleeping with anything that could be considered female (including women of different races, but that's acceptable in his book).<br />Bruce lives under the illusion that he has everything under control, but in reality, his life is falling to pieces around him. It starts with physical deterioration. Bruce is plagued with a nasty rash on his gential region, and now, he has a tapeworm, who is surprisingly introspective for a &quot;simple organism&quot;. This tapeworm's monologues usually took place right in down the center of a page.<br />Secondly, Bruce's mental state is slowly crumbling. He has a theory that only a finite number of bad things can happen in the world, and if they're happening to someone else, those bad things can't be happening to him. So, Bruce pits his co-workers against one another by discreetly destroying their lives and feeding them lies. He wants them miserable because their misery will feed his joy.<br />He isn't a man with much on his side, but he likes to believe that he is the most crafty man in the world. He gives advice on how one can stay on top, but really these serve as a warning of what NOT to do.<br />However, the positioning, if you will, of the tapeworm's monologues threw me off a bit. I didn't mind them, but I didn't like the fact that the cut right through Bruce's own telling of the story. I found myself trying to figure out what was being said BEHIND the tapeworm's monologues.<br />Filth is trashy, filthy, and an amusing read. Bruce is a walking contradiction and disgusting to boot. And while I found myself laughing at the sheer crudeness of some scenes in the book, I couldn't help but feel an overwhelming pity for Bruce.myself trying to figure out what was being said BEHIND the tapeworm's monologues.<br />Filth is trashy, filthy, and an amusing read. Bruce is a walking contradiction and disgusting to boot. And while I found myself laughing at the sheer crudeness of some scenes in the book, I couldn't help but feel an overwhelming pity for Bruce.	2003-09-18
US	32336537	R3K1UU7WEAFZJQ	072785822X	717558254	The Rescue	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Sweet book	I read this book because I liked the movie A Walk to Remember. Actually, A Walk to Remember was really the book I wanted, but after I couldn't find it in the bookstores, I settled for the rescue. It wasn't a bad book, and it wasn't a book that I would say that I'm going to cherish forever.<br />The story was interesting enough to keep me interested. It centered around a single mother who's son has a hard time learning and comprehending language, and a contractor/firefighter who's father died tragically making way for the &quot;I'll-never-love-a-woman&quot; promise. The characters were horribly cliched. He stuck the two lead characters in traditional male-female roles that. It even got a little corny in places, but the story was interesting enough to keep me reading. The author did a very good job at portraying a mother's love and determination to help her son. It was a sweet story that tugged at the heartstrings, but don't expect to find anything deep and profound here.	2003-09-06
US	32336537	R2CBCBU0NHWBEF	0140177396	371714764	Of Mice and Men	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Of Mice and Men review	Of Mice and Men is the story of two men - George and Lennie. George is small and smart, and George is big and mentally challenged. George and Lennie are about to start working on a new farm; they had to leave a previous farm because Lennie got in \\"some trouble\\". Lennie has a preoccupation with things soft and pretty, which lands him in pretty big trouble. <br />This book didn't immediately draw me in from the beginning. I thought the beginning was rather monotonous, but the pace quickly picks up when George and Lennie arrive on the farm. I found that this book is a beautiful portrayal of human compassion. George says that his life would be much better without Lennie, and perhaps it would be, but still you can tell that he cares very much for the gentle giant.<br />George isn't the only example of \\"human compassion\\". You have Carlson who's probably on the extreme uncaring end. He's one of those people who feels that a life isn't valuable anymore once you're of no use. There's also Slim who's very kindhearted. He believes that you can tell if a person is good or not just from their manner of acting. Then, there's Crooks-the cynical stable hand-who likes to believe in the worse of men rather than the best. <br />Also, Steinbeck did a very good job getting his point across using mostly dialogue. There is precious little description in this book, but that's okay because most of the emotion of the story is conveyed through dialogue.	2003-08-31
US	32336537	R2LLMIZ21HYB8H	0140177396	371714764	Of Mice and Men	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Of Mice and Men review	Of Mice and Men is the story of two men - George and Lennie. George is small and smart, and George is big and mentally challenged. George and Lennie are about to start working on a new farm; they had to leave a previous farm because Lennie got in \\"some trouble\\". Lennie has a preoccupation with things soft and pretty, which lands him in pretty big trouble.<br />This book didn't immediately draw me in from the beginning. I thought the beginning was rather monotonous, but the pace quickly picks up when George and Lennie arrive on the farm. I found that this book is a beautiful portrayal of human compassion. George says that his life would be much better without Lennie, and perhaps it would be, but still you can tell that he cares very much for the gentle giant.<br />George isn't the only example of \\"human compassion\\". You have Carlson who's probably on the extreme uncaring end. He's one of those people who feels that a life isn't valuable anymore once you're of no use. There's also Slim who's very kindhearted. He believes that you can tell if a person is good or not just from their manner of acting. Then, there's Crooks-the cynical stable hand-who likes to believe in the worse of men rather than the best.<br />Also, Steinbeck did a very good job getting his point across using mostly dialogue. There is precious little description in this book, but that's okay because most of the emotion of the story is conveyed through dialogue.	2003-08-31
US	32336537	RKDMRE3SZ6N11	0316769533	862964341	The Catcher in the Rye	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Catcher in the Rye review:	I just finished reading Catcher in the Rye, and I sorry that I didn't read this sooner in life. Honestly, when I was in high school, I didn't have the desire to read this book. I didn't know what it was about, and I was sure that it was going to be another one of those boring books that droned on and on about stuff I didn't care about. Boy (old Holden is rubbing off on me) was I wrong. I don't know if there is a way to sum up the story. There seems to be many stories in one. It starts out with Holden saying that he's at a place \\"resting\\", and he goes on to narrate how he ended up in that place.<br />So, he tells about his life from the time he got kicked out of Penecy Prep until his eventual journey home. One thing is certain -- I can definitely see why people would see this as the bible for the \\"teenage angst\\" generation. I enjoyes this book for the simple fact that it gave an honest look into a seventeen-year-old boy's life. Holden is cynical, introspective, and painfully honest. I don't know if Salinger really meant for people to \\"like\\" Holden more so than he meant for them to try to understand Holden's views on life.<br />You're presented with a cynical adolescent who has no obvious direction in his life, yet at the same time he manages to be very intelligent. You're faced with his ideas on sex, school, phony people, etc. Holden makes no apologies for being who he is, and I appreciated that. The only gripe that I had with this book was that sometime the author seemed to be getting a little too much into the whole \\"teenage angst\\" deal. Some parts of the book had me snorting and rolling my eyes because it seem wildly overdramatic. All-in-all, it was a great book.	2003-08-28
US	32336537	R8OK4RD2DPBSW	1583143963	325005238	Sass (Arabesque)	Books	2	0	0	N	N	Mediocre at best	A brief synopsis: Sass goes to Paris for work (and also to get a little vacation time in). She never expected to run into her ex in the most romantic city in the world; even worse, she never expected herself to fall for him all over again. But is her heart ready to accept that he's a changed man, or will he break her heart again.<br />Honestly, I didn't enjoy this book as much as I hoped I would. The reason for this was because I couldn't connect to the characters. Most my time was spent thinking, \\"Who talks like this when telling their girlfriend about an ex?\\" I also thought the plot was a little contrite, but it was consistent, and that's the important thing.<br />I liked the premise for the story. The characters had potential to make me love them, the love scenes were very sensual, and (like I said) the plot was consistent. However, there seems to be this formal tone that left me feeling \\"cold\\".<br />This was my first book by this author, but I won't let the cold formality of it sway me from reading more of her work.	2003-08-28
US	32336537	R2IGGM977KH6CB	0061058262	60794379	The Crow: Clash by Night (The Crow, No 3)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Clash by Night Review	A brief synopsis: Amy Carlisle is a barren woman who finds a little piece of joy in running a daycare. Since she is unable to bare children, the children she tends to become her surrogate children. A extreme right-wing groups decides to send a message to the government, and Amy finds herself along with her children the plot of an extremist attack. In seeking revenge on the ones who hurt her and her children, she finds that she may just be turning into a monster herself.<br />Wow, I really enjoyed this story. It was nice to see the story of the Crow with a female hero. I also like the premise of a motherly love that brings back the character rather than the love for a spouse or a lover. I think this is currently my favorite in the line of Crow books. Williamson describes scenes with a jarring vividness. I was even touched to tears in a couple of the scenes.<br />He did an excellent job at showing how a mother's love and anguish. You could literally shape Amy's feelings-her rage, her love, her suffering-with you hands. Amy's a character that mothers and young women can relate to. She's a nurturer, but she also holds a gritty edge that makes her \\"cool\\".<br />He also did a good job in combing the element of hate and politics into his story, giving it a gritty fill. I found it hard to stomach all the hate that flowed from the antagonist. My only complaint is that ending seemed a little rushed, but the twist of events at the end really made up for the seeming rushed finished.	2003-08-16
US	32336537	R1D8YJDRTMI6XG	0061058254	166934037	The Crow: Quoth the Crow	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Quoth the Crow review	A brief synopsis: William Blessing is a famed horror writer, surpassing the likes of Stephen King and Dean Koontz (who says he isn't a horror writer), and he is also the foremost expert on Edgar Allan Poe. Blessing offers a helping hand to a fellow aspiring writer who apparently never paid heed to the phrase &quot;Don't bite the hand that feeds you&quot;. Blessing is murdered and plans are made to exploit Blessing's name by this ambitious writer (who's in cahoots with a local goth gang, if you will, called the Gothetiques). This man also has plans to marry Blessing's beautiful widow, Amy.<br />This book was such a treat for me. As a long time lover of the film &quot;The Crow&quot;, the comics, and the television series, I've been longing to get my hands some of the books written by various authors. So, this was my introduction into the world of Crow fiction, and I wasn't disappointed in what I read. I enjoyed this story thoroughly. I never went into this story hoping to make Shrek's analysis, but I did go into this story hoping to be entertained. The characters were interesting. Though, I wasn't sure whether to like Blessing or dislike him at first, which made him all the more &quot;real&quot; because I feel the same mixed feelings about people in my read life. It didn't have the strongest of storylines, some might say it was contrite, but it was solid, giving it a good read.<br />Now, for my grievances with this story. The author is a compulsive name dropper. It's nice to know that he did his research in horror films and &quot;Goth&quot; music, but the mentioning of nearly 20 groups and 15 &quot;prominent&quot; stars and writer on one page is far too much. I think the author got a little too enamored by what he things the Goth culture is like. Some of the things he described the Gothetiques doing were just borderline corny. I think the way that he dealt with the characters Mick and Theodore was a bit contrived. However, those were minor things that I could look over.<br />This will definitely continue to be a part of my library for some time to come.ver.<br />This will definitely continue to be a part of my library for some time to come.	2003-08-16
US	32336537	R3QIJS7QXL40ZU	0786014245	604635042	She Loves Me Not	Books	4	2	2	N	N	She Loves Me Not review	A brief synopsis: Rose Larabee is a single mother, who's husband has died not too long ago. She's also still recovering from a heart transplant and is working part-time in a small bookshop. She receives a valentine in the mail, and although this shouldn't seem weird, it isn't addressed, and this bothers Rose. Little things start to happen and while Rose is suspicious, she thinks that she's just overreacting. Over the next couple of weeks, Rose finds herself the object of someone's mad obsession.<br />I went into this book expecting the typical &quot;whodunit&quot; mystery, but I came out of this pleasantly surprised. It wasn't a fast-paced thriller (in my opinion). The pace was a sort of saunter, dropping clues here and there while keeping the reader interested. The characters were lovable. I found myself really caring for Rose -- even relating to her in some aspect. Once the story was over, I found myself surprised (as I  mentioned before). The &quot;villain&quot; was the last person I suspected.<br />The only thing that irked me about the book was the tense it was written in. I'm not use to reading a story that uses present tense (as opposed to the usual past-present tense that most writers used). I found it hard to get into this story at first, and it distanced me away from the story in certain places. That's only a minor grievance, though. As you continue through the book, it becomes less and less of a problem. I'll have to look into more of Ms. Straub's work.	2003-08-16
US	32336537	R29D1S5AK2HAM4	0451526341	380925201	Animal farm: A Fairy Story	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Animal Farm review:	I know that this book was written as a satire of communism, and I'm sure that's been drilled into everyone's head a thousand times over. I won't talk about that; instead, I'll talk about what the books means to me. I skirted around reading this book for a while because the subject seemed like something I wouldn't be particularly interested in, but I was wrong.<br />Animal Farm was started on an idea that was planted in the mind of the other animals by an old and respected farm figure -- Old Major. He had a dream that animals would take their place as the true heirs of the land. After Old Major dies, a revolution takes place on the farm, and the animals overthrow the owner, Mr. Jones, and claim the farm as their own.<br />At first, things went as planned. All animals were equal, and many things were done with the good of the animals in mind. Then, the pigs (who were smarter than other animals, naturally) began to slowly warp this dream into something more cruel and deceitful until the animals can hardly distinguish between the pigs and Man.<br />I think this story can apply to any form of government. The pigs kept the other animals in line by telling them what they wanted to hear or using excessive force -- much like many governments in the world today. They twisted and warped the thoughts of the masses, making themselves look more heroic and &quot;for the masses&quot;. They even had the scapegoat in the form of a banished pig named Snowball on which all their problems were blame. &quot;Blame Snowball&quot; seemed to be an underlying motto in the book.<br />The pigs benefited from the prosperity of the farm while it's other inhibitants suffered. Most of the animals were fiercely loyal, and the pigs misused this trust. A great example is Boxer who worked harder than anyone on the farm, and when he was no longer useful to the farm, he was suddenly an expendable asset (and you can imagine what happens from there). And you can see hints of that in any society. I never expected to enjoy this book as much as I did, and it will definitely be a part of my library for years to come.xpected to enjoy this book as much as I did, and it will definitely be a part of my library for years to come.	2003-08-06
US	32336537	R1HIPX8DMDQXML	0786817070	442293804	Artemis Fowl (Artemis Fowl, Book 1)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Artemis is definitely no Harry Potter.	Why do people feel the need to compare this book to Harry Potter. Yes, they both have a magical world that exists beneath our own, but that is where the similarities end. If you're reading this series because you think it'll fill some void that Harry Potter has left, then, this is not for you. You're better off rereading Harry Potter. If you're looking for a fast, light-hearted read, then you'll probably enjoy Artemis Fowl.<br />Artemis Fowl is the story of Artemis Fowl the Second and his quest to regain his family's fortune by blackmailing the fairies (basically). Artemis is a 12-year-old genius who descends from a long time of treacherous men. His mother is in a state of dementia, and his father is missing. Although Artemis isn't poor by anyone's standards, he wants to build up his family's once monstrous fortune.<br />I'll admit I didn't like Artemis very much in the beginning of the book. Arrogant and uncouth are along the lines I was thinking of, but as the story progressed, I did take a liking to the child genius. Eoin Colfer has successfully made a character that's both the villain and the hero - especially considering that most young adult fiction tends to be horribly clich&eacute;d with the basic good vs. evil concept. Here, you'll find yourself thinking that Artemis is quite the villain, but at the same time, he is a child and certain things will conjure up a pathos feeling toward him. He's really not as heartless as he is first made out to be.<br />Then, there's the matter of the fairies. They're very much human in many aspects. They're more advanced than the \\"Mud People\\", but they hold certain ill sentiments toward the humans who they feel are a threat to world. Many of the fairies ideology about humans is amusing. They see humans are barbarians for using the bathroom IN their homes! (Can you imagine?) Their ideas about comes off with the staunch judgment that's present even in our own world, but they show the human world through new eyes, which is very entertaining.<br />I also think that younger readers (which it is geared toward) will appreciate the mature tone that the books take. In a time where young adult books insult our children's intelligence, this is a breath of air. It's a young adult book that actually reads like it's for young adults - go figure!<br />The only thing that really annoyed me about this book was the way the author would suddenly feel the need to take time out to \\"explain\\" the matter of things. The author would suddenly break in the story and say something like, \\"We should take this time out to talk about the Fowls...\\" The viewpoint would change and the omnipresent 3rd person tone would suddenly turn to omnipresent 1st person, and then back again. This disrupted my reading pattern, and I felt this could be better tied in with the story. It didn't happen often, though. Thank Goodness. I realize that this was supposed to be written as a medical journal \\"documentation\\", but it was still quite annoying<br />A good read. I wish I could give it 4½ stars. If it hadn't been for those quirky sections that disrupted my reading, I would have given it five stars. I'm glad that I finally took the time out to read it, and I'll definitely look into reading more of this series.rtaining.<br />I also think that younger readers (which it is geared toward) will appreciate the mature tone that the books take. In a time where young adult books insult our children's intelligence, this is a breath of air. It's a young adult book that actually reads like it's for young adults - go figure!<br />The only thing that really annoyed me about this book was the way the author would suddenly feel the need to take time out to \\"explain\\" the matter of things. The author would suddenly break in the story and say something like, \\"We should take this time out to talk about the Fowls...\\" The viewpoint would change and the omnipresent 3rd person tone would suddenly turn to omnipresent 1st person, and then back again. This disrupted my reading pattern, and I felt this could be better tied in with the story. It didn't happen often, though. Thank Goodness. I realize that this was supposed to be written as a medical journal \\"documentation\\", but it was still quite annoying<br />A good read. I wish I could give it 4½ stars. If it hadn't been for those quirky sections that disrupted my reading, I would have given it five stars. I'm glad that I finally took the time out to read it, and I'll definitely look into reading more of this series.	2003-07-28
US	32336537	R1MIYQ2WI2H6OI	0440222699	812392109	Children of the Vampire (Diaries of the Family Dracul)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Better than the first -- in my opinion.	This is the 2nd part in \\"The Diaries of the Family Dracul\\" trilogy, which is written in the same format as Bram Stoker's Dracula. This story takes place 25 years after the first novel. Arkady is still trying to find a way to destroy his uncle, Vlad, and release his family from an age-old covenant/curse.<br />I thought this book was great, better than the first. While I found myself wishing something interesting would hurry and happen in the first book, I didn't have that problem with this book. The action was fast-paced and tinged with a dark urgency, and I couldn't put it down because I was so anxious to see what happened next.<br />My only real gripe with this book was the \\"twist\\" it takes in the end. I thought that was somewhat contrived. It seemed to come right out of left field as if the author was really only putting it for a shock value -- especially considering that vampires supposedly taste the \\"truth\\" in the blood. However, it didn't hinder the story, and it definitely does give you a bit of a shock.<br />Anyhow, I thought the book was better than a 4-star rating, but not quite a five. Definitely another good addition to any vampire lover's collection.	2003-07-26
US	32336537	R1F8T7FQYR10A3	051513449X	453010069	Guilty Pleasures (Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter: Book 1)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	She ain't Buffy!	Well, this series was recommended to me because I liked Buffy the Vampire Slayer. I hate that Buffy seems to be the definitive model for everything dealing with vampire slayers. That's not the point here though.<br />I'm also a long time lover of vampire lore, and that was another reason--if not the main reason--for me to pick up this book. I enjoy reading vampire novels, and enjoy the vampires (of this story) I did. This story introduces us to Anita Blake -- full time animator, part time slayer. Basically, she's been &quot;tricked&quot; into helping the city's head vampires find a killer that's been offing their kind. Anita doesn't like vampires, and they surely don't like her, but she has no choice.<br />I enjoyed reading this. I thought it was a promising start to the series. I think Anita is a symbol of &quot;girl power&quot;, but that the same time, she could come off as annoying to some (I start to like her better as the series progresses). Some of the lesser character such as &quot;Edward&quot; (the violent as I like to call him) are more interesting than the main character herself. I, also, liked the premise for Anita's world such as vampires being recognized as citizens, etc. It's a very colorful world full of life and diversity.<br />This book also has underlying themes that can be applied to our own world. Such as, there seems to be this underlying theme of acceptance and tolerance. You have these creatures who are recognized as citizens, but there's still this hatred toward them because of who they are -- very much like things happening in our own world (minus the supernatural aspect).<br />The only major grip I have with the book is this: There's nothing about the character that we don't know, and there's that habit of going into explicit detail about every little dislike and like she has. I know with the first person perspective the writing is going to be more indepth than usual, but it's like everything is spelled out by the main character. Why do I care what her checkout boy looks like? I don't. Therefore, her breath shouldn't be wasted on telling me he was 5'5 with russet eyes and blond hair that fell to his shoulders in waves (I made this up, but you will find a lot of that in this book).<br />All in all, good beginning novel. I enjoyed the series as a whole, and I hope to get around to reviewing other books in this series.I care what her checkout boy looks like? I don't. Therefore, her breath shouldn't be wasted on telling me he was 5'5 with russet eyes and blond hair that fell to his shoulders in waves (I made this up, but you will find a lot of that in this book).<br />All in all, good beginning novel. I enjoyed the series as a whole, and I hope to get around to reviewing other books in this series.	2003-07-22
US	32336537	RJJHS0UQO4B8S	0060392452	194848581	Stupid White Men ...And Other Sorry Excuses for the State of the Nation!	Books	4	6	13	N	N	Witty, while being informing	Usually, I avoid books of this nature. Not because I don't care, but because it's usually the same whining drivel I can read in any \\"political\\" book. However, Michael Moore surely knows how to get an opinion across, and he knows how to do it with humor and satirical wit that makes people take notice. And that's what made me read this book. Honestly, I couldn't put this down. I finished reading this book in the span of one day, and I was shocked, appalled, offended, and wanting to do something about the state of things.<br />In \\"Stupid White Men\\", Moore has combined his biting wit with statistics and sources. You find a collection of essays written about everything from the 2000 election to Mother Nature's systematic plan to obliterate the gender that's seen as a threat - men. Moore questions race relations, environmental causes, school systems, Democrats (Bill Clinton was the best \\"Republican\\" president we ever had, you know), the prison systems... whatever bothers him.<br />He presents statistics and sources while retaining that biting sense of humor. Yes, he is trying to entertain, but his main goal is to educate. I found myself silently agree with most of the things that he said in his book. I was outraged at some of the facts he presented (such as the activities that many of our nation's cabinet members are partaking or the need to drill for oil in some of our nation's national parks). Moore is very passionate about his beliefs. You can literally see the sarcasm or urgency dripping from some of his words.<br />This book isn't for everyone. Some people may feel that some of his ideas are farfetched, and some may not appreciate his humor. He'll make you laugh, and he'll make you angry, but above all, he'll make you think. That's one good reason to at least read this book. He will give you something to ponder on - even if you don't agree with him.<br />mortal_belleza	2003-07-01
US	32336537	R15EEPYSBKTQBM	0440215439	346470721	Covenant with the Vampire (Diaries of the Family Dracul)	Books	4	0	2	N	N	What can I say besides wow?	I'll admit the story starts a little slow in my opinion. How can I say that when the opening line is a bold statement of a death? Easy. Long-time horror book reader, but I digress. It quickly picks up though, and I found myself emerged in the world of the Dracul family. It's easy to get caught into the story as you progress further. You feel like you're that metaphorical fly on the wall, witnessing things you should not.<br />The story is told much in the same style of Bram Stoker's Dracula, which is the family's account of the events as told to their journals, but this story takes place 50 years before the events that occurred in Bram's novel. In this Covenant with the Vampire, Arkady Tsepesh has returned to his ancestral home of Transylvania, taking with him his pregnant wife, Mary. His father has died, and now he must continue the family tradition. The family is bound by a covenant to take care of Vlad Dracula, and in return, Dracula protects them.<br />Arkady doesn't believe the rumors about his dear, eccentric uncle. For years, the villagers have held on to \\"silly superstitions\\" about the Tsepesh family, resulting in a hate-hate relationship between the villagers and the family. Strange occurrences begin to take place at the Tsepesh estate. The family scrambles to make sense of the things that are happening around them. They often question their sanity, even in the face of evidence. Education leaves no room for \\"irrational\\" beliefs. As they piece together the mystery, Arkady is horrified to find what is expected of him now, and what's even worse, the covenant has been broken.<br />Overall, I really enjoyed this book, and I think most vampire lovers will.  Jeannne Kalogridis has done a wonderful job of spinning a tale that leaves you wanting more. And you can tell that's she's definitely done her research for these book. This book provides chronological history for the vampire that started it all while being historically accurate. It has given us something new to ponder in the world of Dracula. Covenant with the Vampire is chilling and insightful, and from the descriptions she gives, one is able to visual everything with a glaring clarity. The story is laced with intrigue, mystery, and an air of seductive evil.<br />As you progress through the novel, the urgency of the characters become more and more apparent as they try to discern between what is real and what is fake. The only complaint I had is that she seemed to fall into descriptive overload at some points (usually the dullest points), and you may find yourself skipping a few pages ahead to get to the good stuff. Otherwise, I think it a good book to add to any vampire collection. It draws from a classic.<br />mortal_bellezato ponder in the world of Dracula. Covenant with the Vampire is chilling and insightful, and from the descriptions she gives, one is able to visual everything with a glaring clarity. The story is laced with intrigue, mystery, and an air of seductive evil. <br />As you progress through the novel, the urgency of the characters become more and more apparent as they try to discern between what is real and what is fake. The only complaint I had is that she seemed to fall into descriptive overload at some points (usually the dullest points), and you may find yourself skipping a few pages ahead to get to the good stuff. Otherwise, I think it a good book to add to any vampire collection. It draws from a classic. <br />mortal_belleza	2003-07-01
US	32336537	R16KPWSD3L8U13	0451186362	40528119	Rose Madder	Books	5	1	1	N	N	She's Rosie Real	Rose Madder is a deeply touching story that mainly focuses around the struggles of Rose Daniels and her need to be free of her husband and his oppressing dominance in her life. Rose has been the victim of her husband's rage for the past fourteen years. She really has no \\"identity\\" of her own in her marriage; she lives to serve her husband. If things aren't as he wants them to be, she suffers the consequences of his violent rages.<br />For fourteen years, he has been putting her through unspoken horrors, and Rose has been enduring this torture in a deep daze - until the day she saw the spot of blood. It only took a spot of blood to wake her from her dreamy state and send her running for the high hills. It wasn't the fact that she had bled. She's bled many times in her life. It was the fact that that one betraying spot represented everything that was wrong in her life.<br />So, Rose leaves her husband. She finds herself in a strange city, alone and afraid. She doesn't really know what to do. She's been her husband's punching bag for so long that she doesn't know how to function without him at first. It's her sheer determination to survive (and the help of a stranger) that leads her to a shelter for women.<br />She gets her life together, learns to depend on herself, and starts gaining confidence. She's even found a painting to decorate the wall of her new apartment - never mind the painting seems to be expanding. For the first time in a long time, things are looking up for Rose. Her troubles aren't completely over though. Her husband has made himself a solemn vow to find her, and when he does, he's going to \\"talk to her up close\\"...<br />King has given us a chilling novel that delves into a life an abused woman. He has given us insight into her thoughts and fears and has painted a truly believable heroine for his readers. You'll find yourself angered at Rose's husband, disgusted with the things he put her through, while cheering her on. You'll always watch a broken woman struggle to put the pieces of her life back together and learn there is more to life than being her husband's rag doll. We watch Rose tap into her strength. Above all I think it reminds of what most abused women go through. Of course, Stephen King added a fantastical element to the story, but I won't give it away.<br />mortal_bellezan woman struggle to put the pieces of her life back together and learn there is more to life than being her husband's rag doll. We watch Rose tap into her strength. Above all I think it reminds of what most abused women go through. Of course, Stephen King added a fantastical element to the story, but I won't give it away.<br />mortal_belleza	2003-07-01
US	32336537	R3MBXG121HIQ71	0805062971	311054036	Fight Club: A Novel	Books	5	7	10	N	N	�I know this because Tyler knows this...�	From the attention the movie received, I think many people were expecting your typical action story with tons of fighting. I wasn't even really anxious to see the movie, and I pride myself on enjoying action based movies (especially in a society where everyone thinks the only thing women enjoy watching is romance). Hollywood made it seem like it had the most basic of plots, nothing that would take a lot of thinking on the viewers' part. Wrong. After seeing the movie and grasping the complexity of the plot, I knew I had to read the book.<br />Chuck Palahnuik presents the story of an average guy. I'll call him \\"Joe Average\\" for the sake of this review. Joe Average could be anyone in today's capitalist America. He has a decent job, a decent place to live, a decent car; he pays his taxes, doesn't question \\"the man\\", consumes from that which he produces. He probably sounds like someone you know. Heck, he could even sound like YOU!<br />Joe Average can't sleep well. After unsuccessful treatment from the doctors, he discovers the joys of group therapy.  He doesn't have an illness, but the sob stories told during the sessions make him realize that his \\"problems\\" aren't so bad. What could be worse than people with brain tumors, men who have breast from testosterone ratios, and people with blood parasites? With that knowledge in mind, he finds it easier to sleep at night because he could have it worse. This is his relief until he meets Marla Singer. She like him is a faker, and in Joe Average's mind, she's ruining it for him. For the first time, he is unable to release his own \\"problems\\" during these group sessions, and the insomnia returns - thus clearing the way for more serious problems while making a new \\"friend\\", if you will, of Marla Singer.<br />Not too long after Marla ruins his \\"joy\\", Joe Average meets Tyler Durden on one of his business trips. He first spots Tyler on a deserted beach trying to build a large sun clock. Tyler isn't the type of friend you bring home to mother. He splices images of genitalia into movies. He's mocking, opinionated, smug, and perhaps even dangerous. After a freak accident concerning his home and car (oh the horror!), Joe Average finds himself in a bar with Tyler. After releasing the woes of being fatherless children (among other things), Tyler tells Joe Average to hit him, and the Fight Club is born.<br />This story delves into the complexity of one man's life who's fed up with his average life. Readers watch as Mr. Average sinks into a life while the law of the land is settled by furious fists. Sick of the weak lives they lead in corporate America, Joe Average-as well as other men trapped in the monotony of life-battle it out in the basement of bars. Tyler and Joe Average build a mantra for men who are sick of their lives. They establish a wide-spread dogma for men who are tired of being corporate America's lapdog. However, this freedom doesn't come without consequences. Nothing this good-this free-comes without repercussions.<br />Fight Club is definitely a must read for those of us who like books that probes deeper than what can be seen. It explores the psychological state of Joe Average, his struggles with society. If you're looking for a good book filled with pointless violence, this probably isn't for you, but if you're looking for something that digs a little deeper, you'll probably find that in Fight Club.to mother. He splices images of genitalia into movies. He's mocking, opinionated, smug, and perhaps even dangerous. After a freak accident concerning his home and car (oh the horror!), Joe Average finds himself in a bar with Tyler. After releasing the woes of being fatherless children (among other things), Tyler tells Joe Average to hit him, and the Fight Club is born. <br />This story delves into the complexity of one man's life who's fed up with his average life. Readers watch as Mr. Average sinks into a life while the law of the land is settled by furious fists. Sick of the weak lives they lead in corporate America, Joe Average-as well as other men trapped in the monotony of life-battle it out in the basement of bars. Tyler and Joe Average build a mantra for men who are sick of their lives. They establish a wide-spread dogma for men who are tired of being corporate America's lapdog. However, this freedom doesn't come without consequences. Nothing this good-this free-comes without repercussions. <br />Fight Club is definitely a must read for those of us who like books that probes deeper than what can be seen. It explores the psychological state of Joe Average, his struggles with society. If you're looking for a good book filled with pointless violence, this probably isn't for you, but if you're looking for something that digs a little deeper, you'll probably find that in Fight Club.	2003-06-28
US	32336537	R2792PBS1IG3K2	031298328X	650761638	Full Tilt (Max Holt)	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Alright then...	I've never read a book by either of these writers, so I figured why not get the best of both worlds by reading collaboration novel between the two. I've heard that both women are extremely talented, and I guess I should've thought that decision through. I just didn't particularly like the heroine, Jamie Swift. She seemed very childish in a sense. Useless cursing and annoying wit seem to be her weapon of choice. She's headstrong to the point of stupidness.<br />The main hero, Max Holt, wasn't too much better in my opinion. He was far too perfect. His only weakness seemed to be women, which he didn't seem to have a problem getting. Apparently, this guy knows everything from astro-physics to whatever else their is to know. Oh, and let's not forget, he's a black belt in Karate and has a talking car he had specially designed.<br />The only saving grace for this book was the humorous story (assassins, and poachers, and wrestlers, oh my!) and the other more colorful characters, which accounts for the three star rating. This book is good for light-hearted humor with a tinge of action.	2003-03-16
US	32336537	R7U67FTD1V0LI	0060930187	802369838	The Bell Jar: A Novel (Perennial Classics)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	I enjoyed this.	Rarely, if ever do I give a book 5 stars, but this definitely deserved it. I was up until the wee hours in the morning reading this book. In this semi-autobigraphical account of Plath's own life, we follow Esther as she slowly sinks in the clutches of &quot;insanity&quot;. I especially liked the first person narration of the story; it provided a more personal view on Esther's fall into insanity. When I was reading it, I could feel and understand Esther's concerns with herself and the people/world around her.<br />I've noticed that most of the time when people talk about this book, they speak of only Esther's insanity and how it relates to Plath's own diminishing state of mind, but in my opnion, there's so much more to it than that. I actually think that in a small sense the story was also about the problems of the world through Esther's eyes. Take for instance Buddy's betrayal. This makes Esther question all those theories about men and women being pure for their husbands and wives. Yes, a large part of this story is about Esther's mental state, but at the same time, you're faced with a young woman who is aptly aware of her surroundings. She questions the standard? What's right? What's wrong?<br />This is definitely a book worth checking out and adding to your library.	2003-02-21
US	32336537	R1VQASB01KSIAT	089879370X	730143177	Armed and Dangerous: A Writer's Guide to Weapons (Howdunit Series)	Books	3	10	11	N	N	Davy Crockett never "kilt a bar" with a repeating rifle.	I picked this book up because 1.) I enjoy the Howdunit series, and 2.) I was hoping to find out some useful information about guns for my own writing. From reading the first few pages of the book, the author comes off as all-knowing and haughty. I decided to overlook this because many writers have done the same thing, especially when they're pretty much an \\"expert\\" on what they are writing. It took me a week to get through this book. Why? Because I found the text boring; it read like an outdated text book.<br />Firstly, the book presented a lot of history. Maybe too much. I didn't really count that as a negative since not every mystery/action writer writes in the present year(s). The way the material, though, was presented was enough to cure my insomnia. I nodded off on this book more times than I'd like to mention. The only thing that interested me in that \\"history lesson\\" was the depictions of the 'Old West'.<br />Secondly, where were the pictures? It was hard for me to get a mental image of the guns he was describing. Yes, he described them nicely, but I'm not going to describe the gun exactly as he did in my own story. It would have been nice to see  pictures, so that I could have rendered my own descriptions. In the back, there are only 4 guns pictured. I found myself relying more so on internet sources (handguns.com) than the descriptions in this book.<br />Thirdly, unless you have at least a little prior knowledge of guns, then this may confuse you. There are too many technical terms and not enough layman terms. You'll find yourself constantly flipping back and foward through the book to make any sense of some the things he mentions.<br />But in defense of the book, it's obvious the author knows his guns. I was impressed with his knowledge on the subject, but I wasn't impressed with the way he presented his knowledge. It seems like he was trying to exercise his rather extensive vocabulary rather than actually educating his readers. Would I recommend this book for buying? I don't know it depends on your knowledge thus far on firearms. It might come in handy as a reference every now and again, but personally I feel there are better references out there.for buying? I don't know it depends on your knowledge thus far on firearms. It might come in handy as a reference every now and again, but personally I feel there are better references out there.	2003-02-21
