US	32419471	R1Q3ZN6WI6TCJL	0425187373	283441261	Time Storms	Books	4	23	26	N	N	Worth your time	Randles cranks out so many books that it's difficult to take any of them seriously.  This one, like most of the others, treads a fair amount of ground that others have previously trod. The notion that UFOs may be time travelers from our own \\"future\\" (whatever that may mean) has long been a staple of ufology (although not one of the \\"favored\\" theories) and certainly has an intrinsic appeal -- for example, it would account for the fact that an awful lot of the \\"aliens\\" seem distinctly humanoid. Here, Randles isn't suggesting that all UFOs are time travelers. She is suggesting that there may be a rare atmospheric phenomenon with \\"time-warping\\" properties that may account for a number of anomalistic experiences in which space and time seem to be affected, from \\"time slips\\" to some Near Death Experiences to certain types of UFO experiences -- in other words, that people who have these experiences literally DO time-travel thanks to this \\"time storm\\" phenomenon. By the same token, some UFOs may be indeed be popping into our reality from the future via time storms. Randles' body of work strikes me as almost schizophrenic -- one moment she's practically a debunker of some case or phenomenon that seems reasonably well-established by reasonably credible evidence (crop circles, for example), and the next she's ready to formulate theories on the basis of evidence that seems shaky at best. This book strikes me as another example of how a familiarity with the \\"new physics\\" can serve as a launching pad for just about any sort of speculation in which you might care to engage, even though the \\"new physics\\" is too speculative in its own right to serve as a very stable launching pad. I guess we should appreciate an author like Randles who is willing to do her thinking in public, even if it makes her appear as though she's all over the map. In any event, this book is highly readable food for thought, and I certainly wouldn't discourage anyone from buying it. There is no question that time is one of the ultimate mysteries.	2003-01-21
US	32419471	R2DBBTF120XYUT	1565540298	368795482	Oswald Talked: The New Evidence in the JFK Assassination	Books	3	16	21	N	N	Worthwhile for a couple of key points	Even by the standards of Weird Reviews, the \\"reviews\\" that this book has provoked below are so bizarre as to be suspicious in themselves -- is someone intent on creating the appearance that only a 32nd Degree Loony would bother with this book?  Are the \\"reviews,\\" in fact, part of some nefarious conspiracy???  Does it take a 33rd Degree Loony such as myself to recognize all this?  In any event, the book is undeniably tedious and self-congratulatory, and I admittedly skimmed entire sections as the authors launched into ever-more-convoluted theorizing about Oswald's role in the assassination.  I assume they did this because it's very difficult to publish A 500-Page Book when all you really have are A Couple of Pieces of New Information that could be summarized in three pages.  The only things you really need to know, which I will now tell you, are that (1) the authors were responsible for bringing to light Dallas Police Department arrest records showing that the \\"three tramps\\" were, in fact, three tramps and not E. Howard Hunt and two aliens from Zeta Reticuli, and (2) the authors were also responsible for bringing to light the facts that in addition to the three tramps another derelict was arrested and placed in the same holding cell area as Oswald on 11-22-63, that he overheard Oswald commenting on a pre-assassination meeting about gun-running with Jack Ruby and another character (who was being brought through the holding area as Oswald made his comments), that he gave this information to police in Memphis in 1964, that he was interviewed by the FBI at that time but his story was discounted because -- mysteriously -- there was no record of his arrest in Dallas, that in 1992 the authors discovered his arrest records in Dallas and documented from a phone log that he was in the same cell block area as Oswald, and that he is still alive (or was in 1996).  Anyway, that's about it for useful information, and frankly I wish the authors had fleshed out the facts in item #2 alot more thoroughly instead of launching off in other directions.  The part about \\"Oswald talking\\" hardly seems to me to be the sort of stuff of which hoaxes are made -- the gun-running is clearly established, what the derelict overhead Oswald say doesn't amount to much apart from the reference to Jack Ruby, the fact that the derelict told his story in Memphis in 1964 is beyond dispute, and the whole thing would've gone unnoticed if the authors hadn't discovered the derelict's arrest records nearly 30 years later and managed to locate him.  So the authors' evidence seems to fit nicely in the overall scenario that Oswald didn't act alone, even if you reject 95% of everything else they have to say.  This book is understandably unpopular with assassination researchers who have made their livings out of theories that the Three Tramps Who Weren't Really Tramps are the key to it all, but it does seem to me that the authors are responsible for some genuinely new and important evidence.  There are some other interesting tidbits as well, and overall my assessment is that this book is worth your time so long as you're prepared for it to be six or eight times as long as it needs to be, very confusing at times and self-congratulatory to the point of being irritating.  The authors also fail to make any connection between the assassination of JFK and the Roswell UFO crash, which was a big disappointment to those of us on the 33rd level of looniness.  What's the frequency, Kenneth?	2003-01-21
US	32419471	RACNZ42E5HF9Q	0812694228	257533174	Murder in Dealey Plaza:  What We Know Now that We Didn't Know Then	Books	4	23	26	N	N	An excellent update on assassination research	I've probably read 30 books on the assassination and got this to bring myself up to date with what has been learned over the past few years.  The editor and the contributors have solid academic and/or professional credentials -- the editor is a professor who appears to have authored or edited a number of mainstream scientific works.  The book includes a very lengthy and helpful hour-by-hour \\"time line\\" of the events surrounding the assassination, as well as a great deal of analysis of the Zapruder film and the autopsy photographs and x-rays.  The focus is primarily on the evidence that was altered or destroyed and the agencies and individuals that would have had to have participated in order for it to be altered or destroyed.  I frankly bogged down in some of the medical/scientific analysis, which eventually becomes mind-numbing unless you're a Certified Assassination Freak.  I got more enjoyment out of things like the lengthy section on what happened with the Lincoln in which JFK was riding (which includes some startling revelations from a former Ford executive).  Not only is this book 400+ pages, but the type is quite small -- there is a LOT of material here.  You're sure to find many parts fascinating, and you may find the whole thing fascinating if you're interested in this level of detail.  It will also steer you to most of the other classic works in this field if you haven't read them.  As the editor says, we're much closer than we were even a decade ago to understanding what really happened -- and what DIDN'T happen is that Lee Harvey Oswald acted alone.  I've studied enough to firmly believe that Oswald was precisely what he said he was:  a \\"patsy\\" who would probably be more accurately described as \\"a minor cog in the machine\\" than as the \\"mastermind\\" or the \\"assassin.\\"	2003-01-14
US	32419471	R2L5O2OS06TIIY	0684813793	732578471	How to Play Your Best Golf All the Time	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Very dated but still worthwhile	Bear in mind that this is a book originally published in the 1950s.  It's widely regarded as an all-time classic, but it's now very dated.  Armour was an excellent player (one of the great iron players of all time) and a superb teacher, but some of his theories are no longer in vogue.  I can tell you that way back in the early 1960s this book, through Armour's focus on the hip turn, transformed me literally overnight from a beginner who sliced the ball to someone who has fought a hook for the last 40 years.  I bought this updated edition strictly for its sentimental value, and I wouldn't foist it on someone who was serious about achieving his or maximum potential because a GREAT deal has been learned about the golf swing since this was written (and today's equipment demands a different sort of swing anyway).  However, if you've played for awhile and just can't seem to get the hang of the golf swing, this book is so straightforward that it may be just what you need.  You'll end up looking like Julius Boros rather than Tiger Woods, but odds are that'll be a major improvement if you're now shooting over 85.  Armour was a transplanted Scot who was very eloquent, and this book is a pleasure to read for that reason alone.  Some of his most basic wisdom (&quot;THINK WHAT TO DO -- that's concentration in golf&quot;) still sticks with me every time I play.  A ROUND OF GOLF WITH TOMMY ARMOUR, in which he steers his 90-shooting friend around the course in 79 by making him play within his limitations, is also excellent.	2003-01-06
US	32419471	R2H7RKO7I30PLM	0810981564	955033747	Golf Magazine's Complete Book of Golf Instruction	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Definitely one of the better ones of its type	There are a bazillion golf instruction books, including several that are very similar to this one in format and scope, but as a certified glutton for everything that comes down the pike I can say without reservation that this is one of the better ones. The writing is clear, the illustrations are excellent and the topics are well-organized and fleshed out. Golf Magazine itself has improved greatly over the last decade, and this is a first-class product -- not something that has been quickly pieced together from previously published articles. It's genuinely educational in the sense that it discusses alternative approaches and doesn't simply try to get you to Swing Like Tiger or Swing Like Ernie. It strikes me as very reasonably priced for the depth of the material and the quality of the book itself. If I had to pick a target audience, I'd say it would be ideal for the 80 to 100 shooter. It may be a bit much for a raw beginner and perhaps a bit basic for someone who considers The Golfing Machine to be light reading, but for everyone else it should be a very worthwhile addition to your library.	2003-01-06
US	32419471	R12CEK25R84H5F	0878338195	336084522	How I Played the Game: An Autobiography	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Worth your time	This is simply a straightforward account of Nelson's life by The Man himself.  It's primary focus is his poor-as-dirt childhood and rise to stardom on the PGA Tour, culminating in The Streak of eleven straight wins in 1945 (he retired the next year).  His television work is also covered, as is the death of his wife of 50 years and subsequent remarriage, but the primary focus is on his rise to stardom and retirement to ranching.  It turns out that he doesn't have hemophilia as I'd always heard, nor did he retire because his \\"nervous stomach\\" couldn't take the stress of competition.  The big virtue of the book is that it's written in a homey style that makes you feel as though Nelson is right there speaking to you in his Texas twang.  It was written with assistance from his second wife, and it reads as though she must have been transcribing tapes.  There is very little discussion of swing theory and no tips to help your game, but it's fascinating if you have an interest in what it took to make a living in professional golf in the 1930s and 1940s.  It should be required reading for today's pampered pros who make more for one fifth-place finish than Nelson made in his entire career as one of the all-time greats.  He comes across as an extremely decent, religious man that you would've liked to have known.	2003-01-06
US	32419471	R11BXCLH9QIGP6	0830815430	414756157	Philosophers Who Believe: The Spiritual Journeys of 11 Leading Thinkers	Books	4	17	17	N	N	Very worthwhile, but not exactly what I was expecting	I found this to be generally interesting, but not exactly what the title had led me to expect.  I was expecting a more philosophical/intellectual discussion of belief - i.e., why these scholars find Christian theology convincing notwithstanding their training in philosophy.  Instead, this might just as easily be \\"Lawyers Who Believe\\" or \\"Accountants Who Believe.\\"  In other words, the contributors' descriptions of how they came to their beliefs and how they maintain them in an academic environment generally struck me as no more (or less) profound or well-thought-out than you might get from any group of reasonably intelligent Christians.  The essays are well-written, candid and diverse, but overall the book seemed to convey no deeper message than:  \\"See, not all academics regard Christianity as nonsense.\\"  I thus had the feeling that the book might be aimed primarily at college-age readers rather than those of us who have struggled with our beliefs at least as much as these folks and were hoping for something meatier.  Too often, I was left wondering:  \\"So precisely why, having been steeped in philosophy, are you a Christian?  Can you explain it a little more deeply?\\"  I give this four stars because I did enjoy all of the essays and found them to be generally worthwhile, albeit not what I was expecting from \\"11 leading thinkers.\\"  I also appreciated the fact that the book has no particular agenda, except to demonstrate that belief isn't incompatible with a high level of intelligence and academic training; the contributors' beliefs seem to range across a wide spectrum of Christianity.  (Be forewarned that some of these essays are VERY candid:  One contributor discusses his promiscuous homosexuality and struggles with masturbation at greater length than we perhaps needed in order to get the picture.  On the other hand, it's admirable of him and the others that they were willing to be this honest, because a dishonest spiritual autobiography would be pretty useless.)	2003-01-03
US	32419471	R1Q83KQIHASVU3	0385260032	18785720	The Search for Bridey Murphy	Books	5	24	31	N	N	A classic -- the reviewer below is misinformed	Like the reviewer below, you've perhaps heard that the Bridey Murphy saga has &quot;all been explained&quot; in mundane terms.  As Carnac the Magnificent might've said to Ed McMahon:  &quot;WRONG, reincarnation breath.&quot;  The &quot;next-door-neighbor-named-Bridey&quot; explanation itself has been thoroughly discredited for 40 years (although the debunkers won't concede this), and this book remains as one of the classics that anyone with an interest in reincarnation must read.  It's from 1956 and is by no means as compelling as one of Ian Stevenson's exhaustive studies, but it is a serious case that was well-handled by the standards of the time and has a number of inexplicable features.  In any event, don't be put off by the misinformation that the case has been explained away.  There have indeed been a number of high-profile cases that have proved to have mundane explanations, but this isn't one of them.  (As an aside, I was amused a couple of years ago when a debunker website made a snide comment about Morey Bernstein, assuming he must've died 25 years ago.  This brought a quick response from Bernstein, who was very much alive and quite feisty.)	2002-11-20
US	32419471	R34HKMYXOOQZV8	1571740589	423456666	Under the Inquisition: An Experience Relived	Books	3	10	13	N	N	Unfortunate choice of format	I sympathize with those who couldn't finish this.  It's VERY unfortunate that the author chose the &quot;historical novel&quot; format because it effectively destroys what could have been a serious work by a serious researcher.  &quot;Antonia,&quot; our heroine, revealed under hypnosis back in the 1970s and 1980s a mass of details concerning a past life during the Spanish Inquisition.  The author, who was the second hypnotherapist to work with Antonia, spent years (including trips to Spain) to verify the details.  Some of these could be verified only in genuinely obscure, non-English sources and are quite amazing.  The effort that the author put into this, and the seriousness of her research, are apparent in the Introduction and the End Notes -- which, unfortunately, are the only parts of the book that I found interesting.  She says that she chose the &quot;historical novel&quot; format because the events as described in the hypnosis sessions were disjointed and she didn't want to bore us with a series of verbatim transcripts as in The Search for Bridey Murphy.  Unfortunately (I seem to be over-using that word), verbatim transcripts can be RIVETING while this reads like an inane Harlequin Romance (which I'm familiar with only because my wife was hooked on them until I told her I'd set fire to the house if she brought home one more; drastic problems call for drastic solutions).  Anyway, if you can force yourself to wade through this, you can be assured that it's based on serious research and could have been a lot better.  It reminds me of Mark Twain's comment about composer Richard Wagner:  &quot;Wagner's music is really a lot better than it sounds.&quot;  Unfortunately, ...	2002-11-20
US	32419471	R36O2OF6WTYT9Y	068486438X	641300780	First Loves: Poets Introduce the Essential Poems That Captivated and Inspired Them	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A neat idea and a neat little book	Simply a series of short essays in which poets comment on the poems that first awakened them to poetry. Fortunately, the poets seem to have felt no need to be \\"poetic\\" in their essays, which are all fairly straightforward and insightful. The poems themselves are, of course, included as well. It's interesting to see the diversity of poems that others have found meaningful and to hear their explanations as to why: Two selected \\"Jabberwocky\\" to my mild surprise, while another selected \\"Suzane Takes You Down\\" and another selected a Rodgers & Hammerstein lyric. Others selected more obscure poems that I find it hard to believe anyone would regard as meaningful, but that's the charm of this book. The one who selected \\"For a Dead Kitten\\" (\\"How could this small body hold / So immense a thing as Death?\\") is my new Favorite Poet, even though I've never heard of her or read anything she's written.	2002-11-20
US	32419471	R2C4RFL8MR15VY	0394754220	344259002	How to Perfect Your Golf Swing: Using Connection and the Seven Common Denominators (A Golf Digest Book)	Books	5	30	31	N	N	Possibly the best ever	In my humble opinion based on reading perhaps 1,000 books on golf over the past 40+ years, this may be the single best golf instructional book ever written. It's short, it's clear, it's well-illustrated, and it's an approach to instruction that WORKS. As I recall, Ballard was selected as the \\"teacher of the decade\\" for the 1980's by Golf Magazine, and with good reason. His fundamental principle of \\"connection\\" is, as he says, not merely the key to golf but to any number of sports. He has identified the fundamental principle that distinguishes the great ball-strikers from the hacks and also-rans. Regardless of what they may SAY they do, or FEEL they do, Ballard has identified what the great ball-strikers really DO. I recently took some lessons at the Kapalua Golf Academy and came home thinking \\"That sounds just like what Jimmy Ballard was saying 20 years ago.\\" I picked up a copy of this book and confirmed that it indeed was what Ballard was saying 20 years ago. You may need some professional guidance to confirm that you are grasping what Ballard is saying, but I'm convinced that what he is saying is pretty much the one overriding key to the golf swing. I'm astounded that this book is out of print because it deserves to live alongside of Hogan's Five Lessons and a handful of other indisputable classics.	2002-11-06
US	32419471	RNEWVZ5UBVGHC	1401000819	236270993	The Trickster and the Paranormal	Books	5	105	111	N	N	Difficult, but worth the effort	Anyone who has studied paranormal phenomena knows how maddening they can be.  Whether you're talking about apparitions, UFOs or anything in between, the phenomena have an elusive, always-just-out-of-reach quality.  Jacques Vallee and others have suggested that paranormal phenomena may be part of a \\"control system\\" - intentionally inexplicable carrots dangled in front of us by Someone or Something to instill a sense of wonder and keep us thinking and evolving.  This \\"trickster\\" quality of the phenomena themselves is what I had assumed this book would be about, but it's actually much broader in scope.<br />Be forewarned:  This isn't light reading.  It's a dense, scholarly 500-page work that will have you confused and ready to give up at various points.  It reminds me of \\"Hamlet's Mill\\" -- another dense, scholarly work whose meaning and depth aren't fully revealed until you've read it several times.  The author states at one point that readers of early drafts complained that the book seemed unfocused and rambling, and I suspect that even the final version will strike most readers as somewhat abstruse.  However, even though I've only read it once at this point, I do believe that what the author has to say is extremely important and well worth the effort it will take you to mine his nuggets.<br />I was vaguely aware of Native American \\"trickster\\" lore, but I wasn't aware that there was an entire body of scholarly work surrounding the trickster archetype.  The author seems to have not only a solid foundation in parapsychology but also an amazing knowledge and grasp of all of the disciplines relevant to the trickster - anthropology, sociology, psychology, literary criticism or whatever.  In a nutshell, he explains how paranormal phenomena fit the trickster model and how approaching the phenomena from this perspective can inform and enrich one's understanding not only of the phenomena themselves but also of society's reactions to them.<br />For example, with UFOs I might have expected him to discuss how even the best cases don't present any consistent picture of what UFOs \\"are.\\"  They're sort of like nuts-and-bolts spaceships ... but also sort of like holograms ... and ultimately so incomprehensible that you just throw up your hands (or latch onto one particular theory and ignore the vast body of evidence that doesn't fit it).  Instead, he explains how the entire UFO phenomenon, from the worst hoaxes to the best cases, fits the trickster model and how the phenomenon's effect on various segments of society (from \\"true believers\\" in aliens with magical powers to nuts-and-bolts ufologists to CSICOP debunkers) likewise fits the model.<br />I hesitate to say more, because I don't feel that after one reading I have a sufficient grasp of everything the author is trying to say.  Suffice it to say that I do think this book will repay the effort you put into it.  It's not all dry, either - the author's background in parapsychology provides the fodder for quite a bit of interesting information about personalities and events.  Just be forewarned that much of the discussion about the trickster and related concepts makes for difficult, jargon-laden reading and will require considerable effort on your part.	2002-09-19
US	32419471	R22W2Z0TEGUJKD	0942679032	954710548	Letters from the Other Side: With Love, Harry and Helen	Books	4	6	8	N	N	A mildly interesting curiosity	I've read just about everything from the heyday of psychical research, which is the era in which these letters were produced.  There were any number of books purporting to be letters from the deceased -- &quot;Letters from Julia,&quot; &quot;Letters from a Living Dead Man,&quot; etc.  Most of them make for rather dull reading today, especially in comparison to the classic works on psychical research, or analyses of the cross-correspondences, or actual transcripts of sittings with the great mediums such as Mrs. Piper.  Although I'm very sympathetic to this sort of stuff, I'm afraid that this book does fall at the &quot;rather dull&quot; end of the spectrum.  The communicators (a sister who died many years before the book was written, a brother who died more recently) are purportedly communicating through their blind sister via automatic writing.  Much of the material concerns family matters, and that which is more cosmic or spiritual in nature is hardly in the same league as Stainton Moses' &quot;Spirit Teachings&quot; or the Silver Birch books.  There is really nothing to convince the reader that these are communications from external intelligences, as opposed to products of the living sister's own mind.  I certainly wouldn't discourage anyone from buying this as a minor curiosity of the era in which it was produced, and you might find a nugget or two that rings true for you.	2002-09-03
US	32419471	RUBF6ZPB8E32K	1585360090	845249673	Sir Walter and Mr. Jones: Walter Hagen, Bobby Jones, and the Rise of American Golf	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Know what you're getting!	This is a serious work by a professor of history.  It ISN'T filled with anecdotes (&quot;And then Walter said to Bobby ...&quot;), descriptions of shots (&quot;Bobby then drilled a quail-high mashie between the towering pines ...&quot;), gossip, swing analyses, etc.  If this is what you're looking for, you'll be sorely disappointed.  It's fairly dry -- make that extremely dry -- but is well-researched (hundreds of endnotes) and will be fascinating for anyone with an interest in the history of American golf.  The format is a dual biography of Jones and Hagen in which their respective careers are compared and contrasted to give the reader an understanding of the rise of American golf in the era 1900-1930.  The two men were so different in virtually every respect that this approach is very effective.  Those who think golf began with Palmer, Nicklaus or Woods will gain an appreciation of what &quot;gods&quot; Jones and Hagen really were during the era in which they played.  Hagen especially tends to be overlooked, but this book is an important reminder that he was one of the true greats of the game in addition to being one of its two or three all-time &quot;characters.&quot;  I didn't have the feeling that the author was particularly knowledgeable or avid about the game -- instead, this is a work of historical research, just as you or I might produce a history of badminton if we were willing to spend the time to do the research.  When you're done, you won't &quot;know&quot; Bobby Jones as well as you'd know him if you read his and O. B. Keeler's own voluminous writings, and you won't be a fount of anecdotes, but you will have a solid grasp of Jones' and Hagen's place in history, how golf became an American obsession and how American golf eclipsed British golf.  All of this for the price of a couple of dozen Top-Flite x-outs.	2002-09-03
US	32419471	R3AH19WCY84R2T	0312867085	283442354	The Abduction Enigma: An Investigation of the Alien Abduction Phenomenon	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Not perfect, but very important	Since Randle is one of the leading proponents of the view that the Roswell incident may have indeed been the crash of an alien craft, he can hardly be accused of being a debunker.  That being said, this book does present a very harsh and dismissive -- BUT EXTREMELY VALUABLE -- perspective on the \\"alien abduction\\" phenomenon.  The core phenomenon (as represented by cases such as Villa-Boas, the Hills, Travis Walton and the Allagash Four) has become buried beneath so many layers of psychobabble and silliness that I had the feeling the authors were intentionally being overly harsh and dismissive in an effort to restore some semblance of balance.  There is quite a bit of overlap and repetition from chapter to chapter; I feel certain that each of the chapters was written by one of the three authors and that the final product perhaps wasn't edited as carefully as it might have been.  Nevertheless, the book is extremely valuable as a warning against the dangers of hypnotically recovered \\"memories\\" and researcher contamination.  The authors effectively analogize the abductee phenomenon to the bogus Satanic Ritual Abuse phenomenon, which likewise relies almost entirely on hypnotically recovered \\"memories.\\"  The chapter on abductee \\"support groups\\" should be required reading for everyone involved in any type of \\"experiencer\\" group.  The authors absolutely hit the nail on the head with their analysis of the dynamics and pitfalls of these dangerous groups, where the \\"support\\" is of a perverted type that only exacerbates the attendees' problems and fosters an unhealthy dependency on the group.  Whatever flaws this book may have, it is highly readable, serves as an important counterbalance to the \\"abductee\\" fluff that dominates the market, and effectively makes its key points.  (I'm not a debunker either.  I've studied UFOs for nearly 40 years and had a close-up disc sighting myself -- but I'd bet everything I own that these authors' perspective on the abduction phenomenon is farmore accurate than that of Budd Hopkins, David Jacobs, Whitley Streiber, et al.)	2002-09-03
US	32419471	ROY8OF0ZUQNWG	074343658X	653120197	The Afterlife Experiments: Breakthrough Scientific Evidence of Life After Death	Books	5	16	20	N	N	An instant classic	Debunkers can nit-pick the methodology, but you can't argue with (1) the author's medical and academic credentials; (2) the fact that some very impressive results were achieved under reasonably controlled conditions (&quot;highly controlled&quot; to everyone but the nit-picking debunkers); and (3) the fact that this is a tightly written, fascinating book regardless of your inclinations toward the paranormal.  You are, of course, pretty much reading a &quot;highlight reel&quot; of the results achieved by the mediums, but those results are incredible and will stand beside those achieved with Mrs. Piper, Eileen Garrett and the other great mediums who were subjected to scientific scrutiny (and they definitely were -- hopefully this book will launch you into a study of the serious work done by the Society for Psychical Research and its American counterpart).  I had read some of the more scholarly accounts of Schwartz' work, but this book put it all in perspective in an easy-to-digest format.  I didn't find it dry AT ALL.  This is essential reading for anyone with an interest in the possibility of an afterlife -- much better and more convincing, in my opinion, than any of the books by the mediums who participated in Schwartz' study.	2002-05-30
US	32419471	R16ELL9SZZLQS8	0140193375	251739920	Cosmic Consciousness: A Study in the Evolution of the Human Mind (Compass)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	An all-time classic	Don't confuse this with \\"Christ Consciousness,\\" which is a modern book that has nothing in common with this one.  This is one of the all-time classics, in which the author attempts to identify and describe individuals who have achieved the mystical awakening that he calls \\"Cosmic Consciousness.\\"  He posits criteria by which such individuals may be identified and then applies the criteria to a wide variety of those who who seem to qualify -- ranging from obvious candidates (Jesus, Buddha) to people you have never heard and others who are identified only by their initials.  Each person has his or her own short section.  It makes for fascinating reading, particularly when you realize that the book dates from 1900, and I believe that the author does describe a legitimate phenomenon in the mature-but-still-young individual who has an unexpected but intense mystical experience from which he or she emerges with a strong conviction as to the essential unity of all creation.  (A highly recommended work by one such individual is \\"Secret Splendor\\" by Charles Earnest Essert.)  The author makes no bones about his near-worship of Walt Whitman, whom he regards as the epitome of enlightenment.  This caused me to reread Whitman, and I must say that I now think the author may be right.  (There is a famous death-bed apparition of Whitman that was seen by the attending physician, and as I recall it was at this author's death-bed.)  Anyway, this is an unusual book that has withstood the test of time and will be money well spent for anyone interested in enlightenment.	2002-04-16
US	32419471	R2K9LW6K5RLM89	0062516531	987503274	Visitations From the Afterlife: True Stories of Love and Healing	Books	4	16	16	N	N	Much better than most in this genre	Books filled with anecdotal accounts of after-death communications have become so common that it's hard to seperate the wheat from the chaff, but this is definitely one of the better ones in the genre.  It's well-organized into chapters in which ADCs sharing common themes are grouped together.  Each ADC carries a separate title and appears to be more or less in the experiencer's own words.  They range from not-very-impressive to truly incredible.  My wife read this first and frequently interrupted whatever I was doing to say, \\"Geez, listen to this ...\\"  There are several accounts that will stick with you and that you'll find yourself discussing with others.  My main beef with all of these books is that we are entirely dependant upon the good faith and honesty of the experiencers without knowing anything about them, as well as the ability of the author (a successful artist who includes several experiences of her own) to filter out people who are exagerrating or just want to see their accounts in print.  It would make the accounts SO much more convincing if the experiencers would be willing to be identified with photographs and brief background sketches that would give the reader some level of confidence that these are real people describing real experiences.  Compare the accounts in an old classic such as \\"Phantasms of the Living,\\" where the psychical researchers went to extraordinary lengths to verify the accounts, and you'll see what I'm talking about.  With this one caveat, which applies to most recent books in this vein, I can recommend this as compelling reading that you are sure to enjoy.  I rate it above many of the others in this genre on the basis that it's well-written and well-organized.	2002-04-08
US	32419471	R2YNYQO23ZUDP2	0816040850	805868056	The Encyclopedia of Ghosts and Spirits	Books	4	17	17	N	N	Excellent...	I picked this up with several other volumes on ghosts and was pleasantly surprised.  It looks like a not-very-serious coffee table book, but when you dive into it you find that it's a serious piece of work.  I read or skimmed all of the entries over a period of evenings and learned much that I didn't know before.  The author seems to have a balanced perspective, and the nit-picking by the one reviewer below probably tells you more about the reviewer than about the author.  Bear in mind that it's focus is limited to ghosts -- it doesn't purport to be a general encyclopedia of the paranormal, such as Nandor Fodor's classic work.  Having said that, I would put this on a par with Fodor's book (albeit with a narrower focus).  Bear in mind as well that it's an encyclopedia and that the discussions are necessarily brief -- this book will steer you to others containing more comprehensive discussions if a particular entry piques your interest...	2002-04-08
US	32419471	R1B27EGLF8UASA	0451204719	686342818	Miracles in the Storm: Talking to the Other Side with the New Technology of Spiritual Contact	Books	5	8	12	N	N	Great for what it is, which may not be what you expect	I found this gossipy tome fascinating only because I'm already well-read concerning the EVP/ITC phenomena themselves.  I agree with the reviewers who say it doesn't tell you a whole lot about EVP or ITC - indeed, some of the contacts the author reports (which were received primarily by a married couple in Luxembourg rather than himself) are definitely in the \\"too good to be true\\" vein and may have you rolling your eyes if you aren't already quite familiar with EVP and ITC.  Some of the reports (and the Luxembourg couple's insistence upon absolute control) virtually scream \\"Fraud!\\" and had me rolling my eyes even though I am familiar with reputable EVP and ITC reports that are flat-out amazing.  These are very weird phenomena that demand attention even if you aren't yet willing to concede they are communications from those who have passed on.  Anyway, I don't doubt the author's sincerity, and he does give an insider's view of the fussin' and feudin' within the EVP/ITC research community (primarily the European ITC community).  You certainly won't come away from this book convinced of the reality of EVP and ITC - in fact, it may have the opposite of the author's intended effect in this regard  - but it will entertain you if you have an interest in the phenomena (or the equally interesting phenomenon as to how paranormal research always disintegrates into the same sort of petty schisms you might find among the deacons at your local Baptist church).	2002-02-25
US	32419471	R2MI314ZH7RFWS	157174200X	91039614	Fast Lane to Heaven: Celestial Encounters that Changed My Life	Books	3	19	28	N	N	An unenthusiastic recommendation	This is rather a short book (272 pages, but with large type) that seemed to me to be light on substance.  It's certainly not in the same league as Howard Storm's book, \\"My Descent Into Death.\\"  The author may be entirely sincere, but there were a few parts that gave me pause.  First, his NDE isn't medically documented in the book, and there doesn't seem to have been an identifiable medical cause.  I start with the premise that if I'm going to take the CONTENT of your NDE seriously, I want to know with some degree of certainty everything that qualifies your experience as a NEAR DEATH one.  Second, he had an NDE in 1984 and had difficulty finding anyone familiar with the phenomenon?  Moody's ground-breaking book had been published in 1975, and by 1984 the NDE was hardly an unknown phenomenon.  Third, he was wildly successful in his disco and real estate businesses, but a minor parking lot incident the night before the closing of the sale of one of his discos destroyed his reputation and drove directly into financial ruin?  This hardly seems plausible.  Being acquainted with the common phenomenon of the former hell-raiser who finds God, the author's tale struck me as solidly in this vein - i.e., everything, from his former misdeeds and worldly successes to his conversion experience, is exaggerated for effect because this is the core personality of the individual.  When I'm not being the Baddest, Cocaine-Snorting Womanizer you ever saw, I'm being the Chosen One of God with experiences that will leave you agog because, in essence, It's Really All About Me.  In a nutshell, the author encountered a Lady of Light whom he equates with the Virgin Mary.  He believes he received various insights into the future of humanity that aren't unlike those reported by NDE experiencer Dannion Brinkley and any number of Catholics who have experienced BVM apparitions.  (I have no axe to grind with the BVM.  My house is full of madonnas.)  The author does specifically suggest the possibility of a major terrorist attack on New York or Washington, D.C. that will \\"change the way we live in the United States,\\" which may have been a genuine prophecy.  In any event, there are now so many of these \\"What I Learned from the Light\\" NDE accounts that they no longer seem compelling to me, and I'm particularly wary of those who use their experiences as springboards into the It's Really All About Me spotlight that they seem to crave.  (Quick, True Believers, hit those \\"Unhelpful\\" buttons before you lose your train of thought ...)	2002-02-25
US	32419471	R2GHWCIKM5GKY7	0310918634	704726907	NIV Audio Bible Dramatized CD	Books	5	404	405	N	N	A super value	Don't be confused -- this is the entire Bible, Old and New Testaments, so don't buy the New Testament separately.  There are 64 CDs.  They are housed in a zippered case for convenient carrying.  The zippered case fits into a slip case which is hole-punched so you can put the whole thing into a three-ring binder if you want.  All in all, a very high-quality product and an excellent value.  The quality of the CDs themselves is excellent.  The dramatization is very unobtrusive -- subtle background music or sounds of nature, couple with different voices whenever someone speaks (God, Eve, Noah, whatever).  The narration and other voices are not the least bit hokey and don't detract from the majesty of the material.  There is also an introduction to each book to put it into context.  Lastly, each chapter is a separate track on the CD, so you can easily find a particular chapter or repeat one.  I've owned a couple of cassette versions of the Bible, including the King James version by Alexander Scourby, and this is FAR superior.  You can't go wrong with this.	2002-01-16
US	32419471	R2XSH7PGCQ6B61	0312173768	708491371	Parapsychology: A Concise History	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Very worthwhile	Beloff is one of the leading proponents of mind-body dualism (i.e., the theory that mind may exist independent of the body) and has had a long and distinguished career.  If you aren't familiar with him, check out his own website.  He is a serious academic and this is a serious work aimed at general readers.  It is a short but excellent survey of parapsychology from a sympathetic point of view, and I found it very worthwhile even though I have read widely in this field.	2001-12-26
US	32419471	R1MSMVBY35G8FV	0970050283	70399221	The Daisy Sutra	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Best for the True Believer	This is the sort of book that I'd love to give 5 stars, but frankly it just didn't live up to the expectations of myself or my wife.  So, I will risk those angry &quot;Unhelpful!&quot; votes and warn you not to expect anything &quot;convincing&quot; in the way of &quot;evidence&quot; regarding animal communication.  The author, who is around 70 years old, does write clearly and sincerely, and the book is enjoyable to read as long as you have an open mind and take the parts about animal communication for whatever they're worth to you.  The author does give good information about the field of animal communication, as well as resources to pursue if you have an interest in the topic.  I firmly believe that animals do communicate profound messages to us in their own ways and do participate in the afterlife (for which there IS a fair amount of evidence), but the field of animal communication in which a psychic human purports to tell you exactly what your pet is thinking, in either this life or the afterlife, has always struck me as unconvincing and solidly within the New Age lunatic fringe.  I didn't find anything here that would cause me to think otherwise, and my wife (for whom I bought the book and who is about as through a dog-and-cat-lover as you could find) bailed out well before the end.  If you're already predisposed in favor of the author's views, you will enjoy it from start to finish.	2001-12-26
US	32419471	RL00N7U7JSET7	0789207087	549678875	In Advance of the Landing: Folk Concepts of Outer Space	Books	5	5	5	N	N	One of my all-time favorites!	I've read virtually every UFO book that's come out over the past 40+ years, and this remains one of my all-time favorites.  I have the original softbound edition, which has become a cult classic and now goes for something like $100.  This is more of a sociological document than a UFO book.  It perfectly captures the entire spectrum of quirky characters involved in the UFO field, and the photographs are an absolute hoot.  I return to this book time and again just for a laugh and to remind myself that there are nuttier people in the UFO field than me.  There's nothing condescending about the authors' treatment of their subjects, however.  They obviously have a genuine fondness for them -- and you will, too.  This is a &quot;must have&quot; for anyone with an interest in UFOs.	2001-08-08
US	32419471	R42H578D6HLXZ	1889051136	696863813	Secret Splendor: The Journey Within	Books	5	16	17	N	N	One of the very best of its type	I've been unable to find out much about the author, who died before this book was originally published in 1974.  He was apparently a very unusual character, a bit of a drifter and a misfit.  He tinkered with the book until his death, and it was published through the efforts of a friend who had the sole surviving copy of the manuscript.  The author was entirely self-educated in regard to spiritual matters, but he obviously read widely, thought deeply and had a definite spiritual awakening (which he describes).  The book is extremely well-written; you need not fear that this will be anything like the New Age fluff published today.  It's fairly short (128 pages in my copy) but packed with insights.  Based on a great deal of reading and study of my own, I'm impressed that this author has nailed &quot;What It's All About&quot; as clearly and concisely as anyone I've encountered.  His basic thesis is that Ultimate Reality is beyond the ability of our rationale, thinking minds to grasp and can only be discovered intuitively.  His thinking is very much in line with the idea of &quot;Cosmic Consciouness,&quot; as described in the book of that title by Richard Maurice Bucke (and his awakening was of precisely the sort described in Bucke's book).  My brief description doesn't do justice to the depth of the author's thinking, but suffice it to say that you owe it to yourself to read and reread this if you consider yourself any sort of a &quot;seeker.&quot;	2001-07-03
US	32419471	R3RZSU5MBG3AFE	0671729055	483311791	Power Golf	Books	5	20	27	N	N	But only one star if you're expecting instructional help	This was written in 1948 and is utterly useless as a &quot;how to&quot; guide for a beginning or intermediate golfer in 2001.  I'm sure that even Hogan, if he were alive, would tell you not to buy it as an instructional guide.  It is, however, FANTASTIC for the scores of photographs of Hogan at all stages of his swing.  You'll clearly see why this man hit the ball in a way that we amateurs never will and 99% of professionals never will.  As someone else pointed out, this is Hogan's swing before his near-fatal accident and before he developed a controlled fade.  Some of the positions he achieves are mind-boggling and completely beyond anyone without his supreme talent.  For the best quality in the photographs, I'd look for a used hard-cover copy (they are still plentiful).  Buy this, but only as a piece of golf history.  For instruction from Hogan, buy Five Fundamentals or one of the recent videos analyzing his swing.	2001-06-25
US	32419471	R2QAVEZBE6N7AS	0133924645	799961416	Hogan: The man who played for glory	Books	5	3	3	N	N	I preferred this to Curt Sampson's biography	I had previously read pretty much everything I could find about Hogan, including Curt Sampson's recent biography.  I picked up a copy of this much older work with low expectations and surprisingly found it totally enjoyable.  It's full of little details that you won't find elsewhere.  For the period of Hogan's career from the start through 1960 or so, it's invaluable.  I've seen it criticized by more recent authors, but it certainly comes with ringing endorsements from the people who knew Hogan most intimately.	2001-06-25
US	32419471	RWNG0XCKKSROV	1902636163	387515496	My Descent Into Death	Books	5	56	59	N	N	Definitely one of the most compelling NDE accounts	I just got around to reading this after having read most of the other books in this field.  Many potential readers may be put off by the facts that Storm is a Christian minister and that his NDE (which occurred when he was an atheist) wasn't the entirely &quot;warm and fuzzy&quot; experience favored by the New Age crowd.  These facts should not keep anyone from reading this book.  As another reviewer said, Storm's Christianity focuses on love and isn't the narrow-minded cartoon version that alienates many people.  The most important thing is that the book is an honest account of what Storm experienced and how it transformed his life.  This struck me as one of the rare accounts in which the experiencer has largely put aside his ego and need to impress everyone with his unique status as an &quot;experiencer&quot; and is simply trying to communicate to his readers the truth as he experienced it.  Like it or not, during his NDE Storm found himself in the grip of seemingly demonic forces until he called upon Jesus (pretty much as a reflex action arising out of some childhood church training).  This doesn't seem to be one of those accounts where the experiencer &quot;interpreted&quot; the Being of Light as Jesus -- in Storm's case, it WAS Jesus.  The fact that this book is &quot;Ringingly&quot; endorsed by Dr. Kenneth (not exactly a Christian fundamentalist) should alleviate the concerns of many potential non-Christian readers.  I found it to be one of the more compelling accounts that I've read and would encourage anyone -- particularly those who refuse to confront the possibility of a Dark Side to the universe -- to read it.  (Minor complaint:  Storm is an excellent artist, and it would've been great if the reproductions of his NDE-related paintings had been in color rather than black and white.)	2001-05-01
US	32419471	R374T8QJLZ32VN	1571741062	826699360	The Last Laugh: A New Philosophy of Near-Death Experiences, Apparitions, and the Paranormal	Books	3	14	15	N	N	Legitimate message, godawful book	I think that the previous reviewer misses the point a bit.  Moody isn't &quot;pulling back.&quot;  At least if you accept what he says, this is material that he intended to include as a postscript to &quot;Life After Life&quot; way back when, but that was omitted by the publisher in the interests of commercial success.  He now insists that this material be considered a permanent addendum to &quot;Life After Life.&quot;  My only problem with it is, IT'S A NEARLY UNREADABLE BOOK with a message that is legitimate but could have been condensed to five pages.  Moody takes on three groups -- the Christian fundamentalists, the NDE true believers and the closed-minded debunkers -- as exemplifying the most misguided approach to paranormal phenonmena, which they surely do.  Moody insists on a &quot;playful,&quot; non-dogmatic approach that recognizes the whimsical, elusive nature of paranormal phenomena.  This is the legitimate message that could have been condensed to five pages.  The problem being, the rest of the book, in which Moody seems to think that he is being playful and humorous, comes across a mean-spirited and utimately tedious rant at the expense of the aforementioned three groups.  The writing is simply not worthy of someone with an M.D., a Ph.D in philosophy and many years of experience in this field.  The objection is not, however, that &quot;Raymond Moody doesn't believe in life after death anymore!!!!&quot;  This is the knee-jerk reaction of the NDE true believers, who Moody intends to upset and obviously enjoys upsetting.  The objection is, &quot;Raymond, you are so dogmatic in your playfulness that you sound like an irascible old crank.&quot;  Despite all this, I would certainly encourage anyone who has Moody's other books to buy this one, because you won't have a complete understanding of him or his message unless you do.	2001-04-27
US	32419471	R3VE5U2KV35YCU	0312262256	500011613	The Science of Ufos	Books	2	19	26	N	N	A debunker in sheep's clothing	The author, who has a background in astronomy and is a science professor, admits at the outset that he is a skeptic and is &quot;extremely doubtful&quot; that aliens have visited earth (although he purports to have an open mind).  His message is directly out of the Gospel According to Carl Sagan -- i.e., scientists already understand 98% of the way that the universe works, and anything inconsistent with their current understanding has an infinitesimal chance of being real.  When he confines himself to a discussion of the &quot;hard science&quot; of UFOs -- meaning the way that the typical behavior of UFOs fits with our current understanding of the laws of physics, which is &quot;not very well&quot; -- the book is readable and worthwhile in the same way that Fred Alan Wolf's books are readable and worthwhile.  Throughout, however, there is the consistent theme that this poor fit between the behavior of UFOs and our understanding of physics inevitably means that UFOs aren't real.  This is the Sagan Gospel -- UFOs can't be real because we, who can explain everything, can't explain them (and because they aren't anything like we would build and don't act they way we would act).  This nearsighted approach fails to do justice to the sheer strangeness of the subject, and the author seems to be woefully uninformed about other paranormal phenomena and the way that UFOs relate to them.  There is also a consistently snide and dismissive tone -- witnesses' motives are always suspect, eyewitness testimony can't be trusted, etc., etc.  Again, the Gospel of Sagan.  When the author moves away from hard science into brief discussions of topics such as the abduction phenomenon, the tone remains snide and dismissive and the discussions are too shallow to be worthwhile.  What I really object to is the misleading nature of the book:  The author takes to task those who &quot;commercialize&quot; the UFO phenomenon for profit, yet his own book misleading blares on the cover &quot;An astronomer examines the technology of alien spacecraft, how they travel, and the aliens who pilot them!&quot; (and on the back cover &quot;Where could they come from, and how could they have traveled here?  What advanced technology must they possess to execute the fantastic maneuvers they are routinely reported to make?&quot;) -- when his actual message is, &quot;There ain't no such thing, folks.&quot;  For a devotee of the Gospel According to Sagan, this book will fit nicely in your library.  For everyone else, the book is of marginal value as a readable discussion of the challenge that UFOs pose to current scientific paradigms.  Bear in mind, however, that the author is a debunker in sheep's clothing.  (Some of the photographs are extremely interesting and are ones that I hadn't seen before -- I would've much preferred an in-depth discussion of THEM, but there is no discussion whatsoever.)  Do yourself a favor and buy Richard Hall's &quot;The UFO Evidence, Vol. 2,&quot; and see if the sheer weight of the evidence doesn't overwhelm everything this author has to say.	2001-04-24
US	32419471	RIFFC0M22JAQE	1892138018	253128523	Conversations With Eternity: The Forgotten Masterpiece of Victor Hugo	Books	4	13	15	N	N	Very worthwhile -- a pleasant surprise	I knew the bare minimum about Hugo and approached this book with low expectations of typical channeled inanities, which can be very tedious to read.  However, the book considerably exceeded my expectations.  The channeled portions are generally short, well-organized and interwoven with a great deal of information about Hugo himself and the circumstances under which the communications were received (as well as some discussion of the way that these communications relate to other channeled communications).  The communications themselves (which were received through a planchette) are distinctly odd, and some have the ring of truth.  In a nutshell, they suggest that animals, plants and even stones have a soul or consciousness of some sort and that reincarnation may occur across the entire spectrum from mineral to human.  The circumstances under which the communications were received, involving other family members and unrelated guests, tend to cut against the possibility of them all being the product of Hugo's subconscious (or a conscious fraud on his part).  The communications date from the very early days of Spiritualism (the 1850s) and are, if nothing else, quite different in content from those of some of the other early channelers such as Andrew Jackson Davis and Stainton Moses.  The book certainly convinced me that Hugo was a far more complex and interesting character than I had previously realized.  In short, this is a serious and intelligent piece of work and should be worthwhile reading for anyone with an interest in Hugo in particular or channeled communications in general.  (The author refers several times to James Merrill's long, partly channeled poetic trilogy, &quot;The Changing Light at Sandover,&quot; which is also very worthwhile and truly weird.)	2001-04-16
US	32419471	R13WC70YK1KBHT	0970505507	884787766	Captain Edward J. Ruppelt : Summer Of The Saucers	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Excellent material for the UFO historian	This is definitely a worthwhile book for someone with an interest in the early history of the UFO era, and the authors have done a solid job of ferreting out all of the available information about Ruppelt (including tracking down living relatives).  He was certainly one of the key figures of early ufology -- but he died at age 37 and had disassociated himself from UFOs before he died, so a book-length treatment of his life requires an in-depth look at a fairly short period of time.  This is precisely what this book is.  If you don't fancy yourself as a UFO historian, you are likely to find it a bit dull and would be better served by Ruppelt's and Donald Keyhoe's own books.  If you do fancy yourself as a UFO historian, you will find it a very worthwhile addition to your library.  Just be forewarned that the book is more about Ruppelt and his associates than about UFO sightings per se.  I give it 4 stars rather than 5 on the basis of the production values rather than the content.  It has the feeling of a self-published effort, and there are numerous typos.  My understanding is that the initial printing is only about 750 copies, so it's likely to appreciate in value.  The bottom line is:  Buy it if you are sincerely interested in the early history of the UFO era (as you should be if you are interested in the current state of the phenomenon), but don't expect to be riveted to your seat as you might be with Ruppelt's and Keyhoe's own books.	2001-03-21
US	32419471	R28GKJINMJVROI	0810838818	5793863	The UFO Evidence - Volume 2 : A Thirty Year Report	Books	5	28	29	N	N	This is as good as it gets	It's only March, but this will surely be the UFO book of the year.  Not only is it by one of the most respected names in ufology, but it's just what the title says:  EVIDENCE -- more than 650 pages of evidence, compiled over the past 35 years and assembled here in a very easy-to-digest format.  Hall compiled the first volume of UFO Evidence for the respected National Investigations Committee on Aerial Phenomena (NICAP) in 1964.  The first volume is widely regarded as one of the most useful resources in ufology, and this volume is far superior.  It's literally packed with case summaries, drawings, photographs tables and analyses (including 70 pages on the abduction phenomenon).  Fifty dollars is a lot of money, but this is easily worth twice the price of any other UFO book that I've purchased over the past few years.  The beauty of Hall's approach is that the reader is literally overwhelmed with FACTS, not hypnotically-retrieved recollections or wild-eyed speculations.  Hall was associated with the founder of NICAP, Maj. Donald Keyhoe, and is as far from the UFO &quot;lunatic fringe&quot; as you can get.  He has been a proponent of the Extraterrestrial Hypothesis, which is supported by a fair percentage of the evidence (indeed, a large percentage of the evidence if you're willing to be flexible as to what &quot;extraterrestrial&quot; may mean), but he doesn't seem to be dogmatic about it.  Although this book is clearly his, it includes contributions by others who are equally respected and equally far removed from the lunatic fringe (such as Richard Haines and Eddie Bullard).  This volume and the first (which was reprinted in the mid-1990's) are sufficient in themselves to establish a compelling case for UFOs as an intelligently guided, genuinely anomalous phenomenon (or perhaps several such phenomena).  I have to believe that this book will be money well spent for anyone who wants to see what a serious piece of work looks like in comparison to the dozens of largely worthless UFO titles published every year by authors without a tenth of Hall's experience or depth of knowledge.  Lastly, bear in mind that serious UFO titles such as this typically have limited press runs and tend to be worth considerably more than you paid for them in a few years.	2001-03-05
US	32419471	R2W06CKQIGEYLD	1892673029	234354954	Integrating Mind & Body: NLP for Better Golf - Overcoming the Yips	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Too good to be true? Well, yes.	Hope springs external for overcoming the yips, and this tape may do the trick if you have a very mild case, but it isn't going to do much for a severe case. Each side of the tape is identical -- a 25-minute visualization exercise that certainly can't hurt your putting. You develop a relaxation trigger that you then use on the greens to trigger a relaxation response. One major frustration for me is that you are asked to do some extremely complex visualization EXTREMELY fast. I've previously had hypnosis and have listened to the tape numerous times, but I have yet to really get the hang of it. I'm not sure why the narrator rushes through these portions, but it's mildly irritating. However, I've been using the relaxation trigger when putting with the only method that has ever cured the yips for me (i.e., putting left-handed) and have had several excellent putting performances. In short, this can't hurt -- but if you really think it's going to cure the yips, you're probably one of those dreamers who thinks a $600 driver is going to add 40 yards as well.  (The author contacted me after the foregoing review originally appeared and complained that I'd been unfair.  I believe that there is general confusion, perhaps even on the author's part, between the \\"choking\\" or \\"stress-related\\" yips that may occasionally strike anyone and the mysterious yips that seem to have some physical or psychological basis and that caused Sam Snead to say \\"Once you've had 'em, you've got 'em.\\"  The Mayo Clinic has been studying the latter form.  This tape will almost surely help if you have the \\"choking\\" form, although I stand by my earlier comments.  It will almost surely NOT help if you have the more mysterious form.)	2001-02-21
US	32419471	RKTXIV6S5PJ6C	0062512943	86029220	It's Easier Than You Think: The Buddhist Way to Happiness	Books	5	73	74	N	N	Actually ten stars since two of us read it	My wife and I both read this and found it very worthwhile.  I have read a great deal of &quot;heavier&quot; Buddhist material and almost think the word &quot;Buddhist&quot; in the title is unfortunate because it may drive away some readers who would profit from this book.  It is really more &quot;common sense&quot; than &quot;Buddhist,&quot; and even a Bible-thumping fundamentalist would enjoy it.  The author's points are very similar to those of another American Buddhist sage, Charlotte Joko Beck (check out her books as well).  The beauty of this book is it's brevity and simplicity.  The author basically takes you through her life experiences in short chapters that flow quickly and make their points without preaching.  My wife, who has approximately zero interest in the teachings of Buddha, nevertheless found this to be one of the most enjoyable and practical books she has read in a long time.  I can't imagine anyone thinking that the couple of hours it takes to read this was time wasted.	2000-11-01
US	32419471	R23JRZXMRK8CM4	1577330366	994102562	An Arthur Ford Anthology: Writings By and About America's Sensitive of the Century	Books	4	17	17	N	N	An excellent introduction to Ford	I bought this as an introduction to Arthur Ford, and it serves that purpose admirably.  It is a shortish volume published by the Spiritual Frontiers Fellowship, which Ford was instrumental in founding.  It is,  therefore, solidly pro-Ford -- but it doesn't ignore his personal flaws or  the controversies surrounding his mediumship.  It consists of passages from  Ford's own writings as well as the writings of his closest associates.  One  particularly interesting part concerns an auto wreck in which Ford's sister  and a friend were killed and he was left in a coma.  Writing 25 years  before anyone had heard the term &quot;Near Death Experience,&quot; he  described a classic NDE.  In case you aren't familiar with Ford, he had  nearly a 50-year career.  Two of his main claims to fame were solving the  riddle of the message Houdini had left for his wife (&quot;Rosabelle,  believe&quot;) and putting Bishop Pike in touch with his late son.  I  previously hadn't taken Ford seriously due to the controversy surrounding  the Houdini episode and some of the other anti-Ford propaganda, but this  book led me to do additional digging.  Ford clearly seems to have had a  great deal of genuine mediumistic ability (whatever that may be).  He was  also a complex individual who would make an interesting study even if he  had been a complete fraud.  I would recommend this as an excellent  introduction to Ford (or a good summing up as to what he was all about, if  you are already familiar with him).	2000-07-18
US	32419471	R1G4W0V7PIEAO5	0940829274	10053010	Searching For Eternity : A Scientist's Spiritual Journey to Overcome Death Anxiety	Books	3	14	16	N	N	OK, but don't be misled by some of the other reviews	For not the first time, I feel I have been &quot;suckered&quot; to some  extent by glowing reviews by people who must either be the author's friends  or fellow authors at the same publishing house.  I too have read widely --  really, really widely -- in this field, and this book would not make my Top  100.  When an author repeatedly cites Brad and Sherry Steiger as sources --  well, I don't think too many serious seekers look to the Steigers for  insights.  The book is riddled with distracting typos which likewise  suggest it is not a serious work.  The author does seem to have solid  academic credentials and to be a well-meaning individual, but you are going  to be disappointed if you are expecting a well-written, in-depth treatment  of this subject.  It is comprehensive in scope and would serve as a good  introduction for someone who has not read widely in the field, and I  hesitate to be too harsh toward anyone with the author's impressive  background who is willing to dive into the evidence for a scientifically  taboo subject such as life after death.  I wouldn't go so far as to say  &quot;Don't buy it&quot; -- merely &quot;Don't buy it thinking it is going  to be something of the level you would expect from a Professor Emeritus at  Temple University.&quot;  If you are going to buy this, spend a few dollars  more and also buy &quot;Death and Personal Survival&quot; by Robert  Almeder, who is also a professor.  You'll see what I'm talking about.	2000-07-18
US	32419471	R1H27L1665VSFP	0385500246	600331387	Dave Pelz's Putting Bible: The Complete Guide to Mastering the Green (Dave Pelz Scoring Game Series)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	The definitive book on putting -- 5 stars isn't enough	Knowing of Pelz's background as a NASA engineer, my fear was that a 400-page book on putting would be so technical as to leave me paralyzed on the greens (&quot;paralysis through analysis,&quot; along the lines of what  happened to Bobby Clampett after he immersed himself in Homer Kelley's  incomprehensibe &quot;The Golfing Machine&quot;).  Instead, I found the  book extremely practical and educational.  Pelz is an excellent teacher  whose instruction is based on solid research rather than pet theories, and  this book does a super job of explaining what you ought to be doing and why  (as well as what you ought not to be doing and why).  It is very readable  and well-illustrated -- the 400 pages go very quickly.  Even after 35+  years of playing, I had a hard time understanding how to achieve a  straight-back-and-through stroke as opposed to one that opens and shuts the  clubface like a screen door.  Now I do understand, and I know what I need  to be working on.  You simply will not find a clearer, more comprehensive  treatise on putting; it is light years ahead of anything else I've seen,  and I've read hundreds of golf books.  It would be equally valuable for a  beginner or an experienced player -- Pelz is so good at explaining himself  that even a raw beginner won't find the material over his or her head.	2000-07-03
US	32419471	R2F05IQMIYOZ8F	0405079680	444847677	Spirit Teachings Through the Mediumship of William Stainton Moses (The Occult)	Books	5	10	11	N	N	The very best work of its type	Rev. Stainton Moses was a VERY respected English cleric who discovered to his surprise that he had mediumistic abilities and who then produced &quot;Spirit Teachings,&quot; &quot;More Spirit Teachings&quot; and other  works in the mid-1800s.  He was also one of the original members of the  British Society for Psychical Research.  His sincerity and good faith were  never questioned, and his mediumistic phenomena withstood scrutiny.  The  &quot;Spirit Teachings&quot; are widely regarded as among the most profound  of the various purported messages from the Other Side, and you can study  them with the confidence that at least they are not the work of some New  Age con artist.  They lay out a coherent philosophy/theology which still  forms the basis of many peoples' belief systems.  This is the real deal,  whatever that may be.	2000-04-26
US	32419471	R227S46TF40VO6	0787910627	595425745	Smart Golf: How to Simplify and Score Your Mental Game (The Jossey-Bass Psychology Series)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	One of the best	This is definitely one of the best of the many books on the mental approach to golf.  There is no zen mumbo-jumbo here.  This book presents a very straightforward technique in a very straightforward style.  There is  far more &quot;meat&quot; to this book than to the run-of-the-mill books on  the mental approach, which tend to be long on generalities and platitudes.   I enjoyed the part where they take you through the actual playing of a  round -- their recommendations are more conservative than would have  occurred to me in my most conservative moments on the course.  Their  technique of rating yourself in various categories on a hole-by-hole basis  gets a little too involved for me, but it would be a great help if you were  willing to stick with it.  Even though I haven't adopted the technique, I  have benefitted from reading and re-reading the book and applying the  principles.  DeDe Owens was a true teacher, and her recent death was a  great loss.	2000-04-25
US	32419471	R2O2J9H4D4IIRA	0813908728	561901631	Twenty Cases Suggestive of Reincarnation: Second Edition, Revised and Enlarged	Books	5	163	168	N	N	The classic work on reincarnation	&quot;Suggestive&quot; is putting it mildly (but is typical of Dr. Stevenson's cautious approach).  &quot;Pretty darn convincing&quot; is more like it.  This is one of Stevenson's original works from many years ago  (the 1960s), but it has stood the test of time.  If you read it and his  more recent &quot;Where Reincarnation and Biology Intersect,&quot; you'll  have a fairly good idea of how convincing the evidence for reincarnation  can be.  Stevenson's research is very thorough, and this is a dense volume  that can be a little dry to read.  Each of the 20 cases is presented in  sufficient detail to be compelling.  It's not something you'll polish off  in a couple of evenings, but you'll know you're in the presence of an  honest-to-god researcher.  Stevenson, who has been affiliated with the  University of Virginia for decades, is almost single-handedly responsible  for reincarnation being taken seriously in this country, and this book is a  classic that should be one of the very first you buy on this topic.  You'll  be handing it out to skeptical friends and saying &quot;Oh, yeah? Read  THIS.&quot;	2000-04-25
US	32419471	R2NR86YM5X6XSQ	0767901797	780228392	The Hogan Mystique (Classic Golf Champions)	Books	4	14	15	N	N	Be sure to understand what you are getting	Whether you find this book worth the money will depend on whether you think Ben Hogan was the God of Golf (or at least one member of the Trinity).  It is a large-format book, and the quality of the photographs  (all black-and white) is excellent.  I believe they were all taken on the  same day, when Hogan allowed Jules Alexander to accompany him.  They pretty  much just show Hogan at work on the course, and they do capture who he was.  The accompanying comments and essays are interesting, but the photographs  are the stars of the book.  Just make sure you realize that you are getting  a series of photographs taken on one day -- this isn't a retrospective of  Hogan's career, and there are no swing sequences or anything like that.  If  you are a Hogan worshipper, however, this book is a must.	2000-04-25
US	32419471	R1NQ340D4IOO92	068485192X	689007148	Old Souls: The Scientific Evidence For Past Lives	Books	3	182	196	N	N	Not what it purports to be -- Dr. Stevenson deserves better	Overall, this was a bit of a disappointment.  The subtitle, &quot;The Scientific Evidence for Past Lives,&quot; is typical of the &quot;grabber&quot; subtitles which publishers use to sell books but which  often bear little relationship to the contents.  Shroder accompanies Dr.  Ian Stevenson (who is now 80 years old and has been meticulously  documenting past-life memories for 40 years) on follow-up visits to Lebanon  and India.  A really huge portion of the book comprises Shroder's whining  about the conditions he is forced to endure, which is interesting in small  doses but eventually gets tedious.  (Rethink your vacation to India,  folks.)  We do get snippets of Stevenson's interviews with subjects who  remember past lives, but these are disjointed and hardly rise to the level  of &quot;the scientific evidence.&quot;  In fact, all Stevenson seems to  encounter on these visits are fairly weak cases and dead-ends.  The real  evidence -- reams of it -- is found in Stevenson's own works, such as  &quot;Twenty Cases Suggestive of Reincarnation&quot; and &quot;Where  Reincarnation and Biology Intersect.&quot;  Shroder's book gives the reader  some insight into Stevenson's personality and methodology, but no real  understanding of the scope and depth of his work.  Shroder's knowledge of  this field is distinctly thin -- this book is at precisely the level of  what you see in the newspaper every day, where a reporter spends a few days  immersed in a highly complex subject to which others have devoted their  entire lives, then purports to sum it all up in a few pages of  generalities.  Shroder's attitude was also somewhat off-putting to me.   Although he frequently expresses admiration for Stevenson, his tone  occasionally struck me as arrogant and condescending -- as though the  reader were supposed to give him (Shroder) credit for even undertaking this  project instead of laughing at a subject so widely regarded as silly by his  journalistic peers.  His doubts regarding Stevenson's research are standard  fare which Stevenson and his colleagues have been wrestling with for  decades, yet the responses are not fleshed out and the reader is left with  the impression that Stevenson was no match for a hard-boiled journalist.  I  suspect that those who will derive the greatest enjoyment from this book  will be those who have assumed that reincarnation is complete nonsense with  no basis in fact, and who thus will be intrigued that &quot;one of their  own&quot; came away puzzled if not convinced.  For those who are already  familiar with the work of Stevenson, this book may be worthwhile as an  insight (albeit not a very deep one) into the man and his methods.  For  those looking for &quot;the scientific evidence for past lives&quot; --  well, it's really not here.	2000-04-17
US	32419471	R1KV513ZEIDQQ0	0618055223	665336270	The Mystery of Golf	Books	5	11	12	N	N	A classic in a neat new edition	This little book, written in 1908, says everything that&quot;Golf in the Kingdom&quot; had to say 70 years later, but it saysit more clearly and succinctly.  It is basically a love letter to golf -- don't look for instruction or anything like that.  It captures the essence of golf without becoming as incomprehensible as a zen koan. The author was a Canadian scholar who took up golf in middle age and pondered why the game had become such an obsession.  Despite the dissimilarity between the game in 1908 and the game today, it is amazing how many of the author's insights still hold true (virtually all of them, with the notable exception of his misguided belief that the game would never descend to the level of crass profesionalism). Even though he was not an accomplished player, he had a real understanding of and feel for the game...  This has been compared to Izaak Walton's &quot;The Compleat Angler,&quot; and you should be forewarned that the prose is sometimes archaic and demands careful reading.  Anyway, if you've played golf for any length of time, you'll surely find this more worthwhile and enjoyable than the latest book of tips from some PGA nonentity.	2000-04-17
US	32419471	R21UB3WMVJY473	1567184065	535342713	Messages & Miracles: Extraordinary Experiences of the Bereaved	Books	5	21	25	N	N	Unusual format, very worthwhile	LaGrand is one of the most experienced ADC researchers, and his previous book (Final Farewells) is well worth buying.  He also has solid academic credentials.  This book is in the format of 100 questions and answers pertaining to all aspects of the ADC phenomenon.  I was a bit put off by  the format at first -- but once you get comfortable with it, it is really  quite helpful.  The answers tend to run 2-4 pages; they are not  superficial.  The experiencers' accounts of their ADCs are woven into the  answers.  The answers also include a number of references to books that I  was not familiar with in a variety of related fields.  LaGrand seems to  have a very sane perspective on the phenomenon and what it may mean.  He is  candidly skeptical about certain types of purported ADCs, but he is solidly  in the believers' camp.  This book would be equally worthwhile as an  introduction to ADCs or as a thought-provoker for someone who is already  very familiar with them.	2000-04-06
US	32419471	RJJROFSC51MU2	0966963008	895214178	Mindsight: Near-Death and Out-of-Body Experiences in the Blind	Books	5	70	72	N	N	Not perfect, but excellent	This is required reading for anyone interested in NDEs.  It succinctly covers an aspect of the phenomenon not covered elsewhere.  There are, however, a couple of disconcerting aspects:  First, the authors'  Acknowledgement makes clear that they received funding and support from the  Theophosist to whom the book is dedicated and that the results of their  research are generally in harmony with the doctrines of Theosophy.  This is  not necessarily a problem, but it is noteworthy in light of Theosophy's  checkered past (i.e., founder Madame Blavatsky and her cast of  &quot;Ascended Masters&quot;).  Second, there is a pasted-in disclaimer  telling you to ignore the Author's Note and Appendix because the case  presented therein is now believed to be a fraud.  They included this case  without personally investigating it.  It is to their credit that they  included the disclaimer, which had to be embarrassing.  The rest of the  book is excellent.  The cases are presented and discussed in a very  matter-of-fact manner, and the authors' speculation as to what the  explanation may be is interesting and credible.  The authors also seem to  be quite candid about acknowledging weaknesses in the evidence.  As with  any anecdotal evidence, the weight you attach to it will depend on how much  faith you have that (1) the experiencers are reporting their experiences  honestly and accurately, and (2) the authors are honestly and accurately  reporting what the experiencers said.  I was left with a reasonably high  level of confidence in regard to both (1) and (2), although I would liked  to have known more about the medical and psychological histories of the  experiencers.  Overall, I would highly recommend this.  (Oh, there is also  a short but excellent Foreword by Charles Tart which should be required  reading for debunkers in which he explains the difference between true  science and &quot;scientism&quot; -- i.e., scientific-dogma-as-religion --  about as clearly as it could be explained.)	2000-03-24
US	32419471	R351RPRHFJD10G	0761514805	543948868	Maui and Lana'i : Making the Most of Your Family Vacation (8th Ed)	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Honest and accurate, which is more than you can say for some	I bought six different guides before our first trip to Maui.  After our trip, I compared what they all had to say about the numerous activities we had crammed into seven days.  I felt that this one was by far the most  accurate and honest.  The authors aren't afraid to let you know that  something may not live up to your expectations.  I loaned my copy to a  couple of friends, and they found it equally useful.  Some of the big-name  guides were surprisingly out of date and inaccurate.  Anyway, you can trust  this one.	2000-03-22
US	32419471	R3CW6LRC42P9GW	1571740732	345308333	Body Mind Spirit: Exploring the Parapsychology of Spirituality	Books	5	28	29	N	N	One of the better recent books in this field	I read just about everything in this field, and this is one of the more serious and thought-provoking of the recent works.  It brings together a variety of perspectives from serious researchers.  None of the chapters  (each by a different author) was a waste of my time, and several were  excellent.  In answer to the previous reviewer, I don't believe the intent  of this book is to &quot;convince&quot; anyone of the reality of psychical  phenomena -- I believe the intent is to provoke thought as to how these  phenomena might be explained and what they may mean.  The entire problem  with modern psychical research is that it has moved away from studying the  phenomena on their own terms and has tried to cater to scientific  materialism by imposing laboratory controls, an effort which has proved  largely (but not entirely) fruitless.  Anyway, this book is not aimed at  close-minded skeptics (if it was, it would be published by Prometheus --  right?).  It is aimed at those whose minds are open enough to take the  evidence at face value and consider what it may mean.  Extraordinary claims  demand extraordinary evidence  (of which there is plenty) -- but they also  demand extraordinary investigation and extraordinarily serious thought,  efforts which the debunkers seem unwilling to make.	2000-03-10
US	32419471	R2WJT4CFGPSWBR	1567188176	736950531	After Life: Survival of the Soul	Books	5	33	36	N	N	Reissue of the 1987 edition?	I'm pretty sure this is a reissue of Wilson's 1987 book by the same name (&quot;Afterlife&quot; -- one word).  If not, someone please correct me.  If so, it is an excellent introduction to the evidence for survival.  This  was written before he started churning out books on paranormal topics, and  it is more thorough and serious than some of his more recent stuff.  Unlike  most modern writers in this field, Wilson gives due credit to some of the  excellent work done in the early era of psychical research.  This book  steered me to several others from the 1800s, which I then acquired and  found to be very worthwhile.  Unless you are a closed-minded skeptic, you  can't go wrong with this.  Even if you have read widely in this field, it  probably has some tidbits you didn't know about.	2000-03-01
US	32419471	RM3TU3BACRBVA	1568362005	106178549	Dark Tunnel, White Light: My Journey to Death and Beyond	Books	3	8	8	N	N	Don't let the title mislead you!	Don't let the title mislead you into thinking this is a book about a Near Death Experience!  It is a generally interesting account of the author's battle with a life-threatening illness.  He apparently did have some form  of NDE that was transformative for him, but it is described in very vague  terms and occupies a very small portion of the book.  His account of his  illness and its impact on his life was interesting enough that I finished  the book, but the title is UTTERLY misleading.	2000-03-01
US	32419471	R2P42R7NG2SJUH	0405070381	468614422	Human Personality and Its Survival of Bodily Death (Perspectives in Psychical Research)	Books	5	86	90	N	N	Absolutely essential	This is THE seminal work by THE premier researcher of the heyday of psychical research.  It was originally published around 1900.  If you don't own this, there is a huge gap in your library.  It is basically the only  thing in the field of psychical research that Myers ever published because  he died at age 50, but he was truly one of the gods of psychical research.  He was a classical scholar, and this is reflected in the quality of this  work.  His theories as to &quot;What Its All About&quot; do not make for  easy reading, but they have greatly influenced all subsequent thinking in  the field of personal survival.  Myers is perhaps best known for what he  accomplished after death:  communicating from the &quot;other side&quot;  through Piper, Verrall and other mediums, he was the source of the  &quot;cross-correspondences&quot; which are widely regarded as some of the  best evidence for personal survival.  Anyway, if your reading concerning  life after death has been confined to works published in the 1980s and 90s  (George Anderson, Rosemary Altea, et al.), your mind will be blown by the  quality and seriousness of the work done by researchers like Myers 100  years ago.	2000-03-01
US	32419471	RFZOQS7YRDRTF	0822630168	766722020	Death and Personal Survival: The Evidence for Life After Death	Books	5	42	44	N	N	An excellent, serious study!	This is one of the really excellent modern works in this field.  I can't believe no one else has reviewed it.  It is light years ahead of the New Age silliness which dominates modern writing on life after death.  The  author is a professor with excellent credentials, and this is a serious and  balanced study of the evidence for personal survival.  He focuses on the  best evidence in each of several different areas (reincarnation,  apparitions, etc.) and considers alternative (i.e., skeptical)  interpretations.  He finds some of the evidence compelling and some of it  not-so-compelling, but the book as a whole is very pro-survival.  This book  is frequently cited and seems to have become pretty much a standard  reference.  If you have any interest in the possibility of life after  death, this belongs in your library.	2000-03-01
US	32419471	R3M1SK159C46HM	1862040141	254511183	God's Secret Formula: Deciphering the Riddle of the Universe and the Prime Number Code	Books	2	10	15	N	N	I-N-C-O-M-P-R-E-H-E-N-S-I-B-L-E	Good Lord, what an incomprehensible book!!!  I have a doctorate (in an unrelated field), but there were entire pages where I had NO CLUE what the author was trying to say.  I guess I was expecting something more along the  lines of Fred Alan Wolf's laymen's guides to quantum physics.  The author  may well be the Scientist of the Millenium that he keeps telling you (and  telling you, and telling you ...) he is, and his theories may well be the  paradigm-shattering bombs that he claims, but frankly I never even  understood what the heck he was talking about.  It truly seemed to me like  near-gibberish.  You'd better have some background in chemistry and  advanced mathematics, or you're going to be as lost as me.  I learned more  about the author's theories in a 15-second offhand comment on National  Public Radio than I learned from trying to wade my way through this wacky  book.  I bought the equally incomprehensible Physics of Immortality at the  same time -- I think the Universe is trying to tell me to lighten up.	1999-04-29
US	32419471	RNJEPNEQWLMFE	1862041296	997108554	Destiny: The True Story of One Man's Journey Through Life, Death, and Rebirth	Books	2	7	8	N	N	Sorry to disagree, but ...	I have likewise read numerous serious works on reincarnation over a period of many years, and this unfortunately isn't one of them.  The author may be perfectly sincere -- I frankly am not entirely sure even about that -- but  the evidence he presents is very thin.  There is a reason why his story was  turned down by a British television network which thoroughly researched it  (to be fair, the author does discuss this in detail).  I gave this two  stars because it is mildly interesting and certainly not worthless, but it  is not in the same league as a serious work such as those of Dr. Ian  Stevenson.  The author is one of those individuals who purports to  experience such a wide range of paranormal phenomena that you have to  wonder whether he may be genuinely disturbed or perhaps embellishing his  tale to boost sales.  I see this as more for the Rosemary Altea fans than  for serious students of the paranormal.  Be forewarned as well that the  reincarnation aspect is a fairly small portion of the book -- a great deal  of time is spent on the author's job changes, personal problems and  descriptions of various paranormal experiences.  He comes across as very  much of a whiner and an egotist, which caused me to question whether this  book may be a way to gain the attention he thinks he deserves rather than  an accurate account of his experiences.	1999-04-07
US	32419471	R1S2LP6S67P620	1572431091	561328546	Search for the Perfect Swing: The Proven Scientific Approach to Fundamentally Improving Your Game	Books	5	15	20	N	N	The definitive text	When I worked at Ping 27 years ago -- when Ping was single-handedly revolutionizing the golf industry -- this was the only book I remember seeing in Karsten's office.  That should tell you something.  I read it  about six times.  It is fascinating and full of weird insights that I still  manage to work into conversations today.	1999-03-26
US	32419471	RTCHUFD44WDNA	0684832402	141648772	The Denial of Death	Books	5	20	24	N	N	Profound and wise	I write only because I am concerned that some of the other reviews are going to scare away those with strong religious beliefs or at least a genuine interest in life after death.  No one could be more deeply steeped  in the study of paranormal phenomena than myself, yet this book ranks among  the most profound and wise I have ever read.  Even if you have little  background in psychology or philosophy, you will recognize the deep truth  of what Becker has to say.  If you haven't read this book, you don't  understand how the world works -- it is that important.	1999-03-11
US	32419471	R20R8OOQLZG2AW	0517887924	876967472	Bare-Bones Meditation: Waking Up from the Story of My Life	Books	3	14	28	N	N	Semi-OK	This book brought to mind Samuel Johnson's politically incorrect remark that &quot;a woman preaching is like a dog walking on its hind legs -- it's not done well, but you're surprised to see it done at all.&quot;  I wonder  how much of the enthusiasm for this book is based on the sheer novelty of a  spiritual quest by a one-handed lesbian and how much is based on the actual  content?  I found that the author had some worthwhile insights to share  with those of us who are two-handed non-lesbians, but those insights could  have been communicated in a short essay.  By the time I'd reached the end,  I had grown tired of the author's self-absorption (which never seems to  flag, even in the midst of a quest for the enlightened &quot;no-self&quot;)  and waffling between the options available to her.  I never felt as though  I was in the presence of someone who was moving very far down the path  toward enlightenment.  I was also a bit put off by the fact that the book  is to some extent fictionalized, which strikes me as odd in something that  purports to be The Brutal, Unvarnished Truth.  I suspect that the level of  one's enthusiasm for this book may hinge to at least a fair degree on  whether one is gay and thus highly sympathetic to the author's perspective.   I was surprised at Charlotte Joko Beck's endorsement on the back cover,  because frankly her books are in an entirely different league.   Nevertheless, it was highly readable and by no means a waste of my time.   Just not something that had me saying &quot;Wow -- I've got to recommend  this to everyone I know!&quot;	1999-03-11
US	32419471	RIV5NLJDUWLRZ	0804817820	641960374	The Whole World Is a Single Flower: 365 Kong-Ans for Everyday Life (Tuttle Library of Enlightenment)	Books	2	5	18	N	N	Beyond me, folks	I have a fairly comprehensive Zen library (at least 100 volumes anyway) and bought this on the strength of the gushing reviews on the back cover.  Big mistake.  Zen koans obviously aren't supposed to &quot;make sense&quot;  on the rational level or be susceptible to critical analysis in the same  way you might analyze a poem, but the vast majority of these are simply  dumb and unenlightening, followed by an equally dumb and unenlightening  series of questions, followed by an equally dumb and unenlightening  &quot;commentary.&quot;  I frankly stopped reading after about 200 of  these.  &quot;Huang Po asked Zen Master Fu Hong why Bodhidharma came from  the West.  Fu Hong replied, 'The stone cow sits in a green chair.'  Question:  What did Fu Hong mean by 'green chair'?  Commentary:  Fu Hong  made a big mistake.  Grow up, fat boy.&quot;  If that's your idea of the  path to enlightenment, add this book to your library.  If not, buy  &quot;Repo Man&quot; and watch it eight times.	1999-03-01
US	32419471	R3H7IV81NCEVPB	038072751X	278558333	The Legend of Bagger Vance: A Novel of Golf and the Game of Life	Books	2	0	9	N	N	A &quot;Golf in the Kingdom&quot; Wanna-be	If &quot;Golf in the Kingdom&quot; did not exist, this would be merely a mildly entertaining read in the vein of the &quot;Celestine Prophecy&quot; -- harmless metaphysical pablum for the Ramtha crowd.  Because &quot;Golf  in the Kingdom&quot; does exist, however, this is such a blatant ripoff  that I find it offensive.  Literally every thought in this book -- and,  indeed, some of the very language -- has been lifted from &quot;Golf in the  Kingdom.&quot;  I am by no means a &quot;Golf in the Kingdom&quot; groupie,  but at least it does what it does with a great deal more style and depth  than this.  The first half, before we launch into the Bagger Vance is God  theme, is fairly entertaining and fast-paced.  After that, adios.  Spend  your money on &quot;Golf in the Kingdom&quot; and &quot;Bobby Jones on  Golf&quot; and you will have everything this book is trying to say, but  said with a great deal more style, depth and authenticity.  Rarely have I  seen a more blatant ripoff of someone else's ideas.  Some of the  anachronistic details are also a bit off-putting to someone who really  knows the game.	1999-02-25
US	32419471	R2FZ9VUS5BF6XJ	0062511173	727374927	Nothing Special	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Truly excellent	I am very resistant to books by American &quot;Zen Masters,&quot; many of whom are about as enlightened as Jimmy Swaggart, but this is a very wise and profound book.  I highly recommend it and everything else she has  written.  You don't need to be a committed Buddhist (or a Buddhist at all,  for that matter) to gain a great deal from this.	1999-02-24
US	32419471	R3RA3W2BBPMB25	0275951898	401532153	Where Reincarnation and Biology Intersect	Books	4	141	141	N	N	Another winner from Dr. Stevenson	This is basically the &quot;Reader's Digest&quot; version of a much longer, more technical work.  Thus, the descriptions of some of the cases are very sketchy.  Nevertheless, Stevenson's reputation is impeccable after  something like 40 years in this field, and you can be pretty confident that  he isn't seriously skewing the facts.  He seems to be more up-front than in  earlier works in acknowledging that reincarnation is really the only  plausible explanation for many of these cases.  The book focuses primarily  on cases where birthmarks and other physical anomalies match up with  injuries suffered in the prior life.  The book is well-illustrated with  photographs, and some of the cases are truly weird.  Put this book together  with something like his Twenty Cases Suggestive of Reincarnation, and your  theology will be sorely challenged if it denies the reality of  reincarnation.	1999-01-27
US	32419471	R31CLMX5CE6BWE	0876043511	755831877	Heather's Return: The Amazing Story of a Child's Communications from Beyond the Grave (The We Don't Die Series)	Books	5	5	8	N	N	Very convincing, and not a bit goofy	Don't be put off by the fact that the title sounds like New Age goofiness and the book is published by Edgar Cayce's organization.  The author is no dummy, and the book is well-written and convincing.  The author was a  committed Jehovah's Witness who found her beliefs challenged by the  paranormal events surrounding her 17-year-old daughter's death from a  cancer-related infection.  The events themselves run the gamut but are  low-key, experienced by several people, and generally have the ring of  truth.  The book is not the least bit preachy (quite the opposite, really).   Of the literally hundreds of books on the paranormal that I have read,  this is one of the few that substantially exceeded my expectations.  It's  not going to convince a skeptic, but I have no doubt the author is  sincerely reporting what she and others experienced.	1999-01-27
US	32419471	R3I8SMP565LHMV	0310219922	290635970	Light and Death	Books	5	14	15	N	N	One NDE is worth the price of the book	Sabom's narrow definition of a traditional Christian may put off some readers -- I think about seven of the twelve apostles would have qualified.  However, the one NDE by the patient who had her heart stopped, her body temperature lowered to 58 degrees, and her blood drained in connection with  a delicate brain operation is worth the price of the book.  Although I  would qualify as a &quot;liberal&quot; Christian by Sabom's ten criteria, I  am very sympathetic to the concern he expresses about certain NDE  researchers (Ring, Moody) who seem to be moving in a direction where NDE  experiences are blended with New Age beliefs to establish an &quot;NDE  theology&quot; that may be superficially appealing but is at variance with  traditional beliefs.  Sabom's message seems to be that NDEs are  scientifically credible evidence of the afterlife and can used to support  Christian belief, but they must be viewed with discernment and cannot be  indiscriminately accepted as messages from God.  Definitely worth buying  for the one NDE, even if you're a non-Christian.	1998-12-24
US	32419471	R37H334LCDLSSD	0306459833	747454435	Lessons From The Light	Books	2	47	92	N	N	Dr. Ring edges into the lunatic fringe	Sorry to disagree, folks, but I agree with an NDE researcher of equal merit, Dr. Sabom, who has expressed concern that Ring is incorporating his own &quot;New Agey&quot; beliefs into the NDE experience to create  essentially an NDE &quot;religion&quot; or &quot;theology.&quot;  Even  though Ring disavows this in several places in this book, it is clear that  this is exactly what he is doing.  What is it about the paranormal that  causes so many formerly credible researchers (Raymond Moody, Budd Hopkins  and Linda Moulton Howe come to mind) to eventually lose all perspective and  enter the lunatic fringe?  At most, NDEs are brief glimpses of the lowest  level of the Other Side by people who are not, in fact, passing over.  To  Ring, however, they are direct encounters with God, and the messages that  the &quot;experiencers&quot; bring back should cause us  &quot;non-experiencers&quot; to jump on the bandwagon.  As far as I can  tell from this volume, Ring does not even medically verify that some of his  most touted &quot;experiencers&quot; were, in fact, in a near-death state.  What is happening with NDEs is SO similar to what has happened with UFO  abductions, where the formerly leading researchers have become  laughingstocks, the phenomenon has become so well-known that the ranks of  &quot;experiencers&quot; are crowded with loonies and wanna-bes, and anyone  trying to maintain a sane perspective is branded a non-believer.  Ring and  Moody appear to be leading the charge.  There are MUCH better books on NDEs  than this one.  Unless NDEs are already your religion, I wouldn't bother  with it.	1998-12-24
US	32419471	R2ANZCEODG3W1O	0060693339	61843273	The Divine Conspiracy: Rediscovering Our Hidden Life In God	Books	3	10	24	N	N	Okay, but nothing special	I too bought this on the basis of the over-hyped reviews by the author's fan club.  The message is certainly one that deserves to be heard and heeded, but neither the content nor the writing style is anything  extraordinary.  The book is worth reading, but I'm adding my $0.02 worth  just as a caution to those who may think on the basis of some of the other  reviews that it contains life-changing pearls of wisdom that aren't found  in 100 other books.	1998-11-16
