US	32962116	R3QUY7A5L1VQ2T	0709052359	385590473	Omnibus: The Fast Gun / Gun Wizard / 44 Calibre Man	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Not your usual westerns	I grew up reading westerns and have read an extremely diverse collection of writers. But The Floating Outfit stories are my favorites. In most of the westerns, you get a lot of bang bang shoot'em up, but not much more. The Floating Outfit offers you all the elements of life. Even the horses have personalities in these stories. Of course, you still get plenty of the bang bang shoot'em ups, and knife throwing, and roping, and fisticuffs, and .... <br />If you have any inclination to read a western, get one of these books. Chances are good that the first will hook you and you will be forced to read all of them. You get so involved with these characters that you honestly feel like you know them personally. And you definitely care what happens to them. This series will leave you on pins and needles to get started with the next book in the series....	2003-07-25
US	32962116	R2FVNN5NTSIZSQ	0609807250	94450531	Standing for Something: 10 Neglected Virtues That Will Heal Our Hearts and Homes	Books	5	8	15	N	N	A &quot;life instruction manual for the masses&quot;	I received this book to review for the &quot;Good Steward.&quot; It is one of the most life altering books on the market. Hinckley writes with skill but his wording is plain and simple enough for anyone to comprehend. He has produced a &quot;life instruction manual for the masses.&quot; <br />Hinckley manages to take all the chaos of the entire world and break it down into something manageable with only ten basic virtues. And once you read this book, you will readily agree that if these ten virtues were applied universally by all people, the world would instantly change. Now, granted, that will never happen. But each of us has the power to alter our own micro-world by applying these virtues. <br />The thing that amazed me most about this book is that this leader of the Mormon Church manages to present teachings from the Bible without once becoming &quot;preachy&quot; or &quot;Bible thumping.&quot; There are so few church leaders in any denomination that can manage to do that. <br />This book should be in the hands of every person in the world. What a difference it could make!	2003-07-19
US	32962116	R267HM4JG8HXKB	1569753040	654200148	You Don't Have to Sit on the Floor: Making Buddhism Part of Your Everyday Life	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Wonderful introduction to Buddhism	I reviewed this book for &quot;Sacred Journey&quot; and was amazed at the simplicty of Pym's explanations.I always Buddhism was an extremely complicated religion and found that most books about it were difficult to understand. This book breaks everythign down into the most simple terms. Pym utilizes fantastic parallels to common everyday things and provides a sound, yet easy to understand introduction to Buddhism. His writing style is lively and entertaining, keeping you turning pages and moving forward through the book.	2003-07-19
US	32962116	RJ6XPKBF7DJ6G	1881273393	806693828	The Five Love Languages of Teenagers	Books	5	12	13	N	N	THE instruction manual on teenagers	Every parent and person that works with youths should have this book. It is THE manual for understanding teenagers. Chapman does a fantastic job of explaining that a child's language does not change when they become a teenager, but they do adopt a different dialect. How fascinating! His advice and techniques are solid and effective. Get this book and watch the way it improves your relationship with all the children in your life. It is worth its weight in gold.	2003-07-19
US	32962116	R20X46VDBAPLTM	0567088820	751003082	Older People and the Church	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Every church official should own this	This book should be mandatory reading before a person can get a degree in the religion field or hold any position in the church. It is extremely insightful and presents the dilemma of age dynamics within the religious field. However, the author's attitude came across as condescending and I even felt that he should have watched how he referred to the older folks on more than one occasion. He loses a star for lack of attention to wording.	2003-07-18
US	32962116	RZQ2XZHOJQ9CT	0523422687	45647959	Revenge Ride (Edge Series, #49)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	A western series for veterans - the original Rambo	I grew up reading westerns and have read an extremely diverse collection of writers. So many follow a set pattern and after a while, they become just another copy of a story with the names and location changed. But the Edge series breaks out of that standard mold and delivers a different kind of cowboy. Because he is so different, he views the world in a different way, as the world reacts to him in unusual ways.<br />Edge is the western version of Rambo. He is a quiet, deadly, aloof veteran, trying to go about his business with no trouble. But the world gets in his way. He's not one to start trouble, but he's also not one to back down from it either. What others start he finishes fast ... and with dead certainty! <br />This is a western hero for all the veterans of the world. I think most of us can readily identify with Edge. He became my hero long before I became a veteran, but I think I understand him better now. <br />This is my second favorite western series and I have read every book in the series at least twice. I have read some of them as many as five times. There is not a disappointing one in the series. Each one is action packed to the max. But be warned that they are not for the faint of heart. These novels are extremely violent.<br />If you like a good western, get this book. I'll bet it makes you want to collect the entire series. They are becoming difficult to find, so you'd best get them while you can. I think my ex-husband might sell the entire series - since he does not like to read.	2003-07-18
US	32962116	R375N8Y5KPUCR8	1880913607	421882725	Mending the World: Spiritual Hope for Ourselves and Our Planet	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A fantastic guidance tool!	I reviewed this book for the Liguorian and was really impressed with it. First, I was amazed to find a Rabbi and a minister of the United Church of Christ collaborating on anything. That is so refreshing. Then, I was further shocked to find them teaching us about things like meditation. This book is destined to become a religious/spiritual classic! It offers sound and practical advice for learning to love yourself, your community, and your world. We should all read this book and apply the teachings of these two wise men.	2003-07-18
US	32962116	REWV0NXT0USC3	0553249509	292656278	Choctaw (White Indian)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Collect this series now - no reprinting planned	I own most of the books in this series (may my ex-husband enjoy those other volumes) and have read the entire series three times. There is not a bad book in this entire series. Porters storytelling is superb. He weaves subplots with the best of the masters! His character development is astounding. You will find yourself loving and hating his imaginary people just as though they were alive and messing around in your world. His stories pull you in at the beginning and keep you riveted to your seat. It is all but impossible to put down one of his books, even long enough for a bathroom break. The thing I enjoy most about Porters writing is the way he involves your emotions. You cannot remain detached while reading this series. The books propel you forward to the next in the series. But I do recommend that you read them in order. They are much better that way. <br />I contacted the publisher to see if there are any plans to reprint the series. They said they do not anticipate a reprinting, so whats on the market now is all there will ever be of this series. You should order your set now while there are still a few copies available. You can find all the issues right here at Amazon. Once the world figures out that this is a collectors set, the price will go through the roof.	2003-07-18
US	32962116	R1CG2YPMA314DB	1570754306	623966871	I'd Rather Teach Peace	Books	5	33	33	N	N	It changed my stance from hardcore military to peace seeker	Get this book and absorb it! I have reviewed it for two publications and still marvel at its contents. This man changed my mind about the subject of peace, so give him a chance to reach you. Even if you are a diehard military person (I'm a former sergeant of the 101st Airborne) you will still see the common sense in what this man is teaching. His solutions will work, but only if enough of us heed his words and apply them. I wish every person in the world would read this book!	2003-07-18
US	32962116	R39CZMLT6K13RU	0962747610	699705856	Fiction Writing Demystified: Techniques That Will Make You a More Successful Writer	Books	5	22	25	N	N	Will lead you to success!	Fiction Writing Demystified is a powerhouse of solid information that will definitely improve your performance as a writer. Sawyer breaks his purpose down into a simple statement: \\"In a very real way, this book is about troubleshooting your own writing.\\" He provides you with the tools to become a self-editor.<BR> <BR>Sawyer walks you through the mindset of the writer, the beginning of the story, the writing process, the construction, and creating unique dialogue. But for me, the most enlightening portion of the book is the character development chapter. This lengthy chapter makes up almost half of the book and covers aspects of character development that I had not even considered.<br />Sawyer's writing style is conversational and bright. It moves along at a steady pace and propels you forward. I read the entire book before stopping for coffee. It is one how-to manual that you just cannot put down. From the beginning, I was reminded of my favorite writing how-to book, On Writing, by Stephen King. Sawyer's tone and style are so close to King's. His choice of words also resembles King's. Both men reduce the most complex topics into plain, easy to understand explanations.<br />Fiction Writing Demystified delivers on the promise to make you a more successful writer. If you follow the instructions in this book, I am certain that you will find your manuscripts being accepted more frequently and revised very little. My only problem with any of the advice is when Sawyer warns writers to omit dialect. I have heard this wisdom dispensed by professional writers, editors, publishers, and instructors ever since I began writing. Yet, we repeatedly fall in love with the very characters that have the strongest dialect, proving that the public does tire of making believe that all people are standard Middle American. From Cyndi Lauper and Fran the Nanny to Andy Griffith and Gomer Pyle, we love dialects and variety in our characters. Unfortunately, as long as the icons of the businesscontinue to warn writers to avoid dialects, we will be stuck with Stepford Middle American speech patterns. I would have liked to hear Sawyer stating that dialect is okay, but I am sure that he feels it would greatly reduce the marketability of work. He is providing his readers with solid advice for success. <br />Thomas B. Sawyer has been on the writing staff of 15 network TV series. He has written 9 series pilots and 100 episode scripts. He was the Head-writer/Producer/Showrunner of Murder She Wrote. His resume goes on and only becomes more impressive. <br />Reprinted from Gotta Write Network Online.	2003-07-18
US	32962116	R1RVQPXWCFFOOJ	090428784X	146611566	Only at Night We See the Stars: Finding Light in the Face of Darkness	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Author reaches your every emotion	I cannot believe this book is not available. What a treasure! I reviewed it for &quot;Pastoral Life&quot; and fell right in love with it. The author reaches your every emotion at some point. It is a truely fabulous volume of penmanship. I was so disappointed when I reached the end. I wish it had been ten times as long. It is a thoroughly enjoyable read. Get it if you have the opportunity!	2003-07-18
US	32962116	R19QKX98OJSPJU	0759686602	861622412	DEADLY BREW: She Loved Him to Death	Books	5	0	0	N	N	I needed seatbelts for all the twists! Wow!!!!!	I just reviewed this book for one of my publishers and have nominated it for the Marley Award. What a read! Order a copy right now. You will not be disappointed. Even if you know how it ends, you will still be riveted in place until you have completed reading it. It is an OUTSTANDING book! (Yes. I did yell for emphasis.)	2003-07-17
US	32962116	R3MUNX6BGH4M8V	096571814X	505791925	Hearts and Minds: How Our Brains Are Hardwired for Relationships	Books	5	12	18	N	N	World's most hilarious self-help book!	Get this one and read it! I just reviewed it for one of my publishers and loved every page. It had me in tears several times. <br />The author manages to reduce the most complex scientific terms into easy to understand language. He is skilled in explaining things in a way that makes complete sense. He offers sound, practical advice on how to overcome the obstacles in everyday life and make your relationship work. Best of all, he does it with a sense of humor. His wit will keep you in stitches. <br />From hormones to the life stages, he covers all the bases with this outstanding manual on love, sex, dating, and all the monkeys that can be thrown into the wrenches of relationships. This is a must read!	2003-07-16
US	32962116	R10NHL05RNZPAT	0449220125	253416841	Charles Berlitz's World of the Incredible But True	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Great for trivia buffs	This is a wonderfully entertaining book of strange facts. It will peak your curiosity and stimulate your mind. It is the ultimate primer for your next gathering with friends. Great conversation starters.	2003-06-08
US	32962116	R1XUIK9BGBKGRR	0671827138	997321560	The Pocket Book of Modern Verse	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A necessary read for the lover or student of poetry.	This is the best poetry buy you can find for the money. This book is packed with more than 500 poems written since 1855 in the English language. It is behemoth of pages - thick and hefty. It will provide endless hours of entertainment. Every person should carefully study this volume before penning poetry.	2003-06-08
US	32962116	R11A9T6YNA0TXU	0440213835	678346950	Six Centuries of Great Poetry: A Stunning Collection of Classic British Poems from Chaucer to Yeats	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A stromng introduction to &quot;classic&quot; poetry	This book should be in the collection of every person that desires to write poetry. Study it from cover-to-cover before beginning your own writing. I especially like the way it is arranged &quot;historically&quot; - chronologically - so you can more easily understand the changes that occurred during the English history of poetry.	2003-06-08
US	32962116	R3J0N1AX6CHRU5	0679411585	502570587	We Were Soldiers Once...And Young: Ia Drang The Battle That Changed the War in Vietnam	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Riveting. Heartbreaking!	Wow! What a story! This is one war story that keep you driving forward until you reach the end ... with no coffee or bathroom breaks. You just have to know what happens. In my opinion, war stories just don't get better than this! (Remember that I am a veteran of the 101st Airborne and hate nothing more than the war stories where people can run through a solid curtain of bullets and never get scratched.)	2003-06-01
US	32962116	R2BH61AILABDYF	0425188809	50861192	Watchers	Books	5	0	0	N	N	He terrorizes you with real life.	The reason I am such a diehard Koontz fan is that he can take the ordinary daily routines in life and create something that will absolutely terrorize you. He does not reach into a parallel universe or develop some unimaginable creature. Instead, he uses the characters that would surround you in your daily activities. To me, that is much more terrifying that a spaceship or a genetically altered, mutant space creature. The Koontz style is total psychological terror instead of slice N dice, blood and gore.<br />I have most of Koontz' books and have yet to be disappointed by one. They are all stories that I enjoy reading over and over. It seems that I pick up different details with each reading. <br />Get this book and see what I mean. It will make you look over your shoulder! Before you see the movie, read the book. It will make you enjoy the movie much more. I am glad to see movies from the Koontz books. Check out \\"Sole Survivor.\\"	2003-06-01
US	32962116	R1REPHFFUR1ZLS	0312979274	796536729	Internet Slave Master (St. Martin's True Crime Library)	Books	5	14	18	N	N	Welcome to cyber serials!	This story blew my mind. I had just finished the book when I stopped for fuel at the NM/AZ state line on I-40. There was a state police computer printout hanging on the door, warning women against chatting with men on the internet because of the &quot;internet slavemaster.&quot; The state police (NM) were asking for any information in connection to this internet entity. I couldn't believe it. <br />Then, when I arrived in Holbrook, AZ, I ran into four highway patrolmen at a truckstop diner and asked them about the notice. We engaged in an hour-long conversation about how a predator like this can disguise himself as an upstanding member of the community and keep everybody fooled. We had the book out and several people seemed mesmerized by our discussion of this story. It has that effect! It is just so unbelievable that people are astounded.<br />If you have not read this book, get it! This man was the first to harness the internet for serial killing. Boy, it will drive home the fact that there is no safe ground anymore. If you have children, you will be concerned about what they are doing online. It will make you look at your computer in a whole new light. It will also make you start wondering about all those upstanding citizens that you know so well ... or do you really know them at all?<br />There is a flip side to this story - the world of S&amp;M and the women that were surfing for a &quot;master.&quot; This man could not have lured them if they had not been presenting themselves as victims. That is where the game is so dangerous - you just never know when it is going to get out of hand. I would think that it is not something you would readily trust to a stranger. I think that is the part of this story that astounds people the most. Why would a woman readily place herself into the role of slave to a complete stranger?<br />The author has done a fabulous job of presenting the facts in a flowing narrative that keeps you reading. I couldn't put the book down until Ifinished it. I can't imagine what he could have done to improve it. It was outstanding!	2003-05-31
US	32962116	R3UVMX38UY118X	156548164X	554878086	Lethal Justice: One Man's Journey of Hope on Death Row (Today's Issues)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Makes a political statement ... strongly	This is a moving book. It makes a strong case against the death penalty and will force you to carefully evaluate your own stance on the issue. After an executed man was found innocent, a group came together in Britain to begin corresponding with death row inmates. Joy saw the television show about this innocent man and joined Human Writes. She began corresponding with Lesly Gosch.<br />This book uses the author's words and excerpts of correspondence from Lesly to tell the story of life on death row and one man's journey to self-acceptance before execution.<br />Although it does drag a bit at times, always in Lesley's correspondence, overall it is an interesting book. It is powerfully moving and the author does an exceptional job of presenting her position convincingly.	2003-05-31
US	32962116	R6PLYSQXRHCEQ	1932211004	890232374	Deadly Perversions	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Wish I could give it 6 stars! Outstanding!	I reviewed this book for Gotta Write Network and was so impressed with it that I nominated it for their Marley Award in the mystery category. <br />The author hooked me with the first couple of pages and I could not put the book down. It is a massive book; yet, I read it completely in one sitting. I just had to know how it ended.<br />Arquette interweaves several subplots to give you multiple mini-stories within the one major story. He keeps you either laughing yourself silly or biting your nails. This is writing to the extremes and a treasure of entertainment! Get it today.<br />His next book, &quot;Seeing Red,&quot; will be released soon. Watch for it.	2003-05-20
US	32962116	R1LQ5VWVRWQPPC	0800758099	207035056	The Fingerprints of God: Seeing His Hand in the Unexpected	Books	5	1	1	N	N	An inspirational memoir to refresh your spirit	Nancy Hoag has produced a collection of memoirs to touch the heart and inspire all. Her experiences when God was at work in her life are marvelous. From her dread of attending Bingo with the elderly of her community to getting caught under the raft during a whitewater expedition, she carries the reader through touching and trying moments that turn out to be blessings of the finest kind.<BR>     <BR>This book reminds us that no matter what is happening in our life, God is always there. When our patience is being tried to the limit, when we feel lost and alone, when we are depressed or angry, when we are sick or sorrowful; no matter what is going on around us, it will be okay as long as we keep God's love within us.<BR>     <BR>Hoag's narrative is loose, flowing, and chatty. She invites the reader into her life and shares everything with us: her feelings, thoughts, surroundings, friends, and family. This is a marvelous book that will certainly entertain you while showing you that you are never without God. I strongly recommend it. Let this woman show you the extraordinary touch of God in your everyday life.	2003-05-19
US	32962116	R2GOGB07YBSDD5	0786012641	949170612	Body Hunter (Pinnacle true crime)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A must read for all true crime fans!	Between December 12, 1984 and May 6, 1986, there was a string of murders in Wichita Falls and Houston, Texas. Because these murders fell in various jurisdictions, there were not linked to a serial killer but were investigated as individual cases. The story of these murders illustrates one of the worst mistakes of law enforcement in our country. If not for two detectives that refused to give up, these cases would still remain unsolved except for one. This is the story of these crimes and the man who committed them.<br />On May 6, 1986, Faryion Edward Wardrip murdered Tina Kimbrew. A week later, he telephoned 911 and stated that he was going to kill himself. When officers responded, he told them that he had killed Kimbrew but it had been an accident. She had been his friend. He was traumatized over the loss. <BR>     <BR>On the way to the jail, the officers asked if he had known Ellen Blau, who was killed on September 20, 1985. He admitted knowing her. Fearing that further questioning before he had a lawyer would jeopardize the case, the cops did not discuss Blau any further. Instead, they noted in their report that he knew Blau and sent a message to the investigators. They failed to act on it.<br />Four days after his arrest was made public, one of his friends, Thomas Eugene Granger, telephoned the police to explain that Wardrip had a connection to four of the dead women. He had worked at the hospital with Toni Gibbs, murdered on January 19, 1985, and Terry Sims, murdered on December 21, 1984. He lived across the street from where Ellen Blau worked. Then, he moved near where Debra Taylor, murdered on March 24, 1985, was abducted. Her car was abandoned just around the corner from his house. When police did not take action, Granger called them a second time. Still, they maintained that the murders were the work of multiple killers. They ignored the tip.<BR>     <BR>This book is an excellent read. It seems more like a work of fiction that truth. The writing is lively and moving. You will have trouble putting this one down. Get it and read how a serial killer managed to walk away with parole and begin a new life, even though police had plenty of tips to connect him to a series of murders.	2003-05-19
US	32962116	R2Z9ZV691YU7G3	1585421464	173898034	The Artist's Way: A Spiritual Path to Higher Creativity	Books	5	363	386	N	N	An intensive self-examination course	This 229-page book is actually a course to free your creativity. The entire course is based upon the principle that the artist must have faith to be creative. It is the author's conviction that the Creator encourages creativity in all people. <br />The book is broken down into twelve weekly lessons. There are several miscellaneous sections. Each weekly lesson has tasks and exercises to be completed. Sidebars provide quotes and tidbits of information to uplift the soul. The divisions of the manual are as follow:<br />In the introduction, the author explains how she began teaching and eventually developed her seminars and lectures into a book. <br />Spiritual Electricity: The Basic Principles defines the ten spiritual principles, gives directions for using this course, and tells the reader what to expect from the course.<br />The Basic Tools introduces the two primary tools of the course: the morning pages and the artist date. The morning pages are three handwritten pages, penned in stream-of-consciousness, without looking back at the previous pages. The artist date is time set aside to be spent with your inner artist. There is even a creativity contract.<br />Week 1: Recovering a Sense of Safety deals with realizing what negative beliefs and hurts from the past are blocking or restricting your creativity and replacing them with positive affirmations.<br />Week 2: Recovering a Sense of Identity begins with a section called \\"Going Sane.\\"  It deals with the people you surround yourself with in life and how they exert negative influence over your creativity.<br />Week 3: Recovering a Sense of Power leaps right into anger management, shame, and dealing with criticism. It examines how most people are afraid that there is a God watching everything we do.<br />Week 4: Recovering a Sense of Integrity is about learning to distinguish between the mask you wear for the public and your real inner feelings. There are exercises in learning what you really want from life and in sensory deprivation.<br />Week 5: Recovering a Sense of Possibility begins with the following sentence: \\"One of the chief barriers to accepting God's generosity is our limited notion of what we are in fact able to accomplish.\\" This lesson teaches us to break through those barriers.<br />Week 6: Recovering a Sense of Abundance will have you tossing out clothing and gathering rocks. It teaches us that there is abundance in our lives and that our creativity requires its own portion of luxury.<br />Week 7: Recovering a Sense of Connection covers jealousy, perfectionism, risk, and learning to listen to our inner artist.<br />Week 8: Recovering a Sense of Strength teaches us to turn loss into gain by metabolizing the pain into energy. There is an exercise to help the artist break out of the early patterning; to overcome the negativity of childhood.<br />Week 9: Recovering a Sense of Compassion deals with avoiding self-defeat and learning to logically deal with fears.<br />Week 10: Recovering a Sense of Self-Protection enlightens us about the spiritual demons we create to battle our creativity: workaholism, fame, competition, and drought.<br />Week 11: Recovering a Sense of Autonomy focuses on how to handle success, how to nurture the inner artist, and the connection between nurturing the inner artist and self-respect.<br />Week 12: Recovering a Sense of Faith reminds us of the pitfalls to our creativity and helps us learn to have faith.<br />The book ends with sections on questions and answers, creativity clusters, and forming a sacred circle. <br />Every artist should own a copy of this book and utilize it religiously! It is the kind of manual that can be used over and over again for continual growth. I highly recommend it and feel it is a vital tool for personal creative expansion.	2003-05-19
US	32962116	RM2AVZ0ITZ9ZP	096547335X	601061498	Always in Our Hearts: The Story of Amy Grossberg, Brian Peterson, and the Baby They Didn't Want	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Solid journalism about a horrible crime	On November 13, 1996 Amy Grossberg gave birth to a baby boy in a motel room. She began screaming at her boyfriend, Brian Peterson, to get rid of it.  He covered the baby with a towel, went to his car to get a plastic bag, put the baby in the bag, tied the drawstrings, and calmed walked to a dumpster and tossed the baby in. They drove back to college and acted as though nothing had happened. <br />They might have gotten away with their crime if Amy had not developed eclampsia. She experienced extreme swelling all over her body and was complaining of being sore and tired. Then she started having seizures. The college had her rushed to the hospital. When she was examined, the ER staff called in an OB/GYN. She had not passed the afterbirth and a portion of the umbilical cord was still visible externally.<br />The OB/GYN recognized the symptoms as soon as he walked in. They knew she had given birth to a baby and prodded her to tell where it was. All she would say was that she did not know. <br />The hospital told Amy's mother that she had given birth. Her mother called Brian and demanded he tell her everything he knew. Once he learned that everybody knew she had given birth, he admitted it and said he got rid of the baby and that he didn't think it was alive. When they asked where the body was, he refused to tell them, stating that he did not know. He finally admitted that he threw it in a dumpster somewhere. Police began a search of dumpsters in the area where he said he had been. They stopped the garbage trucks from picking and began searching dumpsters. They brought out cadaver dogs.<br />Lisa Nyland, a dog handler with Maryland Natural Resources Police brought her yellow lab, Jesse to help. When they neared one dumpster, he started barking. She crawled into the dumpster and began searching. She found the bag with the body and radioed it in. <br />The baby was taken for an autopsy. He had been alive and breathing on his own. There was air in the bowel and lungs, and hemorrhages in the brain: all signs that the heart had been beating and the lungs were picking up air. There was a deep indentation in the top of the baby's skull, roughly thumb sized and shaped. A fracture ran away from the hole and was slightly raised. The baby's skull had been split almost open.<br />The parents of this couple spent more than a million dollars on their defense. The court proceedings will blow you away, especially the unorthodox move by one of the prosecutors. You likely will not believe the results.<br />Several things about this case are absolutely unbelievable. When Amy was five months pregnant, she had a physical. The doctor failed to discover that she was pregnant, even though he felt and poked around on her stomach. Her parents failed to notice that she was pregnant. Nobody from the college ever mentioned the pregnancy to her parents. I was left asking myself how this could have happened, especially with the doctor. His license to practice to be suspended and he should be held liable for everything that happened.<br />This was a wonderful book about a horrible act. It keeps you reading and touches every emotion deep within. This is a must read.	2003-05-19
US	32962116	RUBFQMZRN8U3I	0312975570	954921520	Sins of the Son	Books	5	6	9	N	N	Should have included "sins of the father"	This true story is every parent's worst nightmare. Carlton Stowers was a journalist raising his two sons. His oldest son, Anson, had been a good child. He had a normal youth that involved sports and animals. In school, he did well and was not a problem. Then, he began to change.<br />How did this normal child turn to a life of crime, drugs, and eventually murder? <br />This is an excellent book. It addresses the issue of a child's misbehavior from the point of a father, a journalist, and an award-winning true crime writer. He deals with the issues of his son honestly and openly, as only the person experiencing the crisis can. However, he fails to examine his own problems. Since the title is \\"Sins of the Son,\\" I suppose he did not feel that the sins of the father would be pertinent. Personally, I feel that the father is as much at fault as the son.<br />Carlton Stowers is the author of To The Last Breath and Careless Whispers. He has won the Edgar Award twice.	2003-05-19
US	32962116	R2YQJSQJHZUFWW	031228358X	815010699	The Unhealed Wound: The Church and Human Sexuality	Books	5	16	23	N	N	Every church official should have to study this book!	The Unhealed Wound is not just about human sexuality and the church. It gets deep into the sexism of the church. It is a much-needed book! Kennedy shows that the Catholic Church has historically practiced extreme sexism and continues to do so. This church desires to exercise total institutional control of women. It accomplishes this through a number of tactics. He quotes researcher A. W. Richard Sipe that this control is expressed \\"in the restriction or subjugation of the inferior group at the pleasure or for the use of the group in power...\\" He points out that this denomination prefers to ordain openly professed homosexuals as priests than to ordain a woman, primarily because the priest is supposed to be representative of Jesus and female differ so much physiologically from Jesus.  <br />The author begins the book by examining the way the public opinion of priests has changed over the past century. They were once regarded as clean and pure. They were highly respected. They exercised great power and control over people, even nonbelievers. But in the last century, they have fallen from this high standing within society. Today, they are most often disregarded. Often, they are met with disdain. The Catholic Church has lost the primary source of its power.<br />Kennedy has utilized his investigative journalism skills to dig up lots of dirt on the church. Things such as the church changing death certificates of priests that have died with AIDS to cover their sexual problems. He exposes numerous cover-ups and immoral activity by the church. <br />This is a must read! Every church official, regardless of denomination, should be required to study it. Every woman should own a copy and read it aloud to the men in her life: father, husband, boyfriend, boss, and so forth. It is high time for the world to hear this message and force the officials to deal with the issues presented. I recommend this book to everyone.<br />Eugene Kennedy is a professor emeritus of psychology at Loyola University of America, a syndicated columnist, and an award-winning author.	2003-05-19
US	32962116	R121HYIWDMTOOP	0451410734	137735260	Blood Cold:: Fame, Sex, and Murder in Hollywood (Onyx True Crime)	Books	5	7	10	N	N	Did Blake kill her? Many had reason to. Read this book!	This is the story behind the murder of Bonny Lee Bakeley and the subsequent arrest of Robert Blake. Bakeley was a con artist who preyed on men, especially older men. She ran a pornography scam worldwide. It began as an ad in a single's magazine and grew to the point where she employed several people across the U.S. to handle her mailings. She would run ads looking for male companionship. When men responded, she would see nude photos and requests for money. She had been married many times. One of her ex-husbands was her business partner in her pornography scam. He had custody of her children.<br />Bakeley was particularly attracted to movie stars and set a goal to marry one. It did not matter which one. She had stalked several famous men and had a list of several more that she planned to stalk. Her routine was to study the man, learning everything possible about his habits, friends, and family. Then, she would arrange to meet him. She would stop at nothing.<br />When she met Robert Blake, she had been taking fertility treatments. She wanted nothing but to get pregnant and force him to marry her. It happened. But it was not exactly as she planned. He wanted nothing to do with her. She was on probation in Arkansas and had to remain there. He took their daughter to his older daughter's house and left her. Bakeley had no contact with the baby. When she was finally released from probation, she moved to his place. But she went into the guesthouse behind his house. He still wanted nothing to do with her.<br />Then, on 4 May 2001, Bonny Lee Bakeley was shot while sitting in Blake's car near a restaurant. She died at the scene. Speculations ran wild. Her family immediately began to accuse Blake, saying that she had been in fear that he would kill her. The investigation that followed was a nightmare for detectives. The list of men that had reason to want Bakeley dead was extensive. Ex-husbands were popping out of the woodwork. Even Bakeley's family of professional con artistscould have done her in. Blake was not arrested until 18 April 2002. He maintains his innocence. At the time of the writing, Blake had not gone to trial. <br />Dennis McDougal is the author of Privileged Son. Mary Murphy is the senior correspondent for TV Guide.	2003-05-19
US	32962116	R9JOJZY4SWJ59	0060675365	693359168	Why Christianity Must Change or Die: A Bishop Speaks to Believers In Exile	Books	5	11	15	N	N	We all needed this book!	This book has been awarded the Publisher's Weekly \\"Best Book of the Year.\\" The author is the Episcopal Bishop of Newark in New Jersey. He has written fifteen other books, all hailed as controversial. He says theta the word \\"controversial\\" has become attached to his name and is almost a part of his identity. This book is no exception.<br />During the first chapter, the Bishop manages to refute every basic principle or belief of traditional Christianity. He uses scientific data, mathematical data, medical discoveries, and vivid examples to make his point. For example, if God lives in Heaven and Heaven is up, Americans and Chinese are pointing in opposite directions toward God. So where is God? Of course, this was not a problem when the Bible was written because they knew the world was flat and Heaven was up. <br />The author maintains that the state of faith of our postmodern world is \\"exile.\\" We are believers in exile because we have been forced by scientific and medical advances to leave a place of ancient beliefs that we can never return to. Bishop Spong begins to methodically examine all the major factors that have combined to destroy each portion of the traditional Christian belief system: God, Jesus, the Bible, Heaven, hell, hymns, and prayer. Nothing escapes his scrutiny. <br />Bishop Spong states: \\"Part of the nature of the exile experience is that it is a death watch for God as we have known that God.\\" He states that the demise of theism began in the breakdown of a biblical literalism in Germany in the early 1800s. <br />Whether you agree with Bishop Spong or not, this is an excellent book. He has provided many points to ponder. He presents solid arguments that can no longer be ignored. These conflicts within the Christian must be acknowledged. Officials must deal with them. I recommend this book for all: Christians and nonbelievers alike.	2003-05-19
US	32962116	R1FEPB5ZH396FB	0425168727	909178082	The Lady, Her Lover, and Her Lord	Books	5	23	23	N	N	Burns images for self-transformation into your mind!	A quick scan of the chapter titles is enough to pull you into this book. Once you begin reading it, you cannot put it down. The author maintains that every woman has three primary relationships: the one with herself, the one with her husband, and the one with her Lord. Before she can reach a state of balance in life, she must have each of these relationships firmly grounded and running smoothly. <BR>     <BR>A woman cannot establish a relationship with her husband until she has a good relationship with herself. She must feel like a lady in order to project those positive traits that will attract goodness into her life. This manual teaches a woman how to achieve a tranquil inner balance and project positive qualities. It teaches a woman how to create a balance between her three relationships.<BR>     <BR>This is one of the most powerfully written self-help books that I have found. The analogies are so picturesque that they will remain in your mind long after you finish reading the book. For example, the following statement is from early in the first chapter:<br />\\"Sadly, sometimes we place ourselves so far on the back burner that the dreams boil out and leave only a parched pot where once we had personal expectation. When dreams boil out, a scorching heat of stress and anxiety causes the kettle to give a shrill sound before the burning begins. That shrill sound can be heard in our excesses and overindulgences...\\"<BR>     <BR>Wow! Can you not picture that? Does it not leave a permanent picture, warning you to take care to not push yourself to the back burner as you work to put others first? The entire book is filled with wonderful analogies like this one. Even if you have trouble remembering what you have read, you will recall the images formed by this book and be able to associate them with their lesson.<BR>     <BR>The book is composed of 239 pages. It is divided into three sections with a total of 16 chapters. I highly recommend it to all women. The author has a way with words that is sure to inspire. He has written several other books, including Woman, Thou Art Loosed and The Great Investment.	2003-05-19
US	32962116	R2KX2RHHJYF52F	0380794012	474669746	Twentynine Palms: A True Story of Murder, Marines, and the Mojave	Books	1	15	17	N	N	Did I go to sleep & wake in a Mojave travel magazine?	This is the supposed to be the story of a Gulf War veteran Marine viciously killing two girls in Twentynine Palms, California on 2 August 1991, the events leading up to the murders, and the trial that followed. It is also the story of the families involved and how they were affected. <br />This book is divided into four parts, an introduction, a prologue, an epilogue, and a section titled \\"Notes on the Writing of This Book.\\" The introduction immediately pulled me into the story and made me want to keep reading. It began the book with a mother, Debi McMaster, flying to California to attend the court hearing for the Marine that killed her daughter. For some reason, she blames herself for the murder. A good plot/subplot revelation within the first two pages.<br />The prologue, \\"Prelude to a Kill,\\" had the exact opposite effect on me. I wanted to put the book down and never pick it back up. I had to force myself to continue reading, hoping that once the author got all the \\"picturesque and poetic\\" descriptions out of the way, she would settle down to telling the story. <br />Part one, \\"In the Beginning,\\" begins with a brief overview of the events in the first six years of the case. Between his arrest and the time he came to court, the defendant went through three lawyers. They filed every motion that could be drafted. They delayed at every opportunity. When the third lawyer came on board, he was given a year to prepare his case. <br />This section also tells the history of the murdered girl's family. It goes deep into her mother's life, followed by hers. Theirs is a story of abuse from alcoholic men and running away. It is also a story of rather loose women that left their children in the custody of the abusive fathers. They simply ran away from the violence and did what they had to do to survive. The author is still being picturesque, although not as much. She is beginning to weave an interesting story.  <br />Part two, \\"Land of Plenty,\\" begins with Debi McMaster arriving at Twentynine Palms with her kids and dog. She is thirty-one and has just run away from the Hell's Angels. She is looking for a \\"new start.\\" Then, the author takes a hard left turn and digresses for several pages about Twentynine Palms; the history, legend, lore, and people. The author comes back to Debi McMaster for one and a half pages; then, going off on another tangent about the town of Victorville. She eventually remembers that she has a murder/trial story to tell and leaps right back into her story at a different point.<BR>But it is short-lived. After a few pages, she jumps back to Debi McMasters' adventures just after graduation. At this point, I am wondering if she has a basic storyline to follow.<br />Eventually, the action in Twentynine Palms begins. The victims, killer, and key witness are introduced. The book settles down somewhat and begins to focus on the actual murder.<br />If you can live with all the jumping back and forth in the timeline and storylines, this is a good book. I found myself feeling the entire range of emotions in the second half. It delivers an important message about the problems that are common with isolated military towns. And it shows how simple gestures can make a big difference. However, getting through the first half was boring and often aggravating.	2003-05-19
US	32962116	RZ2L3EY18BJWV	0786011971	883990035	Under The Knife	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Unbelievable criminal proceedings for a sadistic jerk!	John Christ was a plastic surgeon in Houston, Texas. He had a history of a violent temper and spousal abuse when he entered his third marriage. His new wife, Carol, was a divorced nurse with two children. This was her sixth marriage. From the early months of their marriage, he tried to make her over, performing multiple cosmetic surgeries on her and even piercing her most private parts in front of several of his colleagues. Their relationship became stormier over time until they were fighting constantly.<BR>     <BR>On May 9, 1992, Dr. Christ shot Carol with a .45 caliber pistol. The bullet entered her face just in front of her ear. It traveled through her sinuses and nasal cavity, ruptured her left eye, and exited her left cheek just below the cheekbone. She received multiple fractures from the bullet throughout much of her face. The temporal and inferior frontal lobes of the brain were bruised, leaving permanent damage.<BR>     <BR>When Christ tried to fire a second shot, her managed to get his forefinger and missed Carol completely. He went to the kitchen, threw the clip in the garbage, and began making telephone calls. He reported to 911 that they had shot each other. Then he called his ex-wife to say he could not pick up their daughter. <br />A series of trials followed that are unbelievable. The jury deadlocked in the first trial. It was ruled a mistrial and another trial started. That time he was convicted of attempted manslaughter and sentenced to 20 years. The jury expressed regret that they could not give him more time. Twenty years was the maximum penalty allowed.<br />At the time of the writing, Carol had undergone 20 surgeries. She will need frequent surgeries for the remainder of her life due to bone reabsorption, tissue atrophy, and prosthetics wearing out. She was unable to perform her duties as a nurse and is receiving disability compensation.<br />This is a good book containing 445 pages. I recommend it, but prepare to be absolutely enraged when you begin reading it.	2003-05-19
US	32962116	R2KB31E11WSTZ3	0770427103	114235522	Lethal Marriage	Books	5	11	13	N	N	The most vividly detailed book I have ever read!	This is the only book I have ever read that made me throw up. I actually got physically sick from the details in this story. If you have a queasy stomach, which I do not, I urge you to pass this 464-page book by. While it is excellently written and is everything a good book should be, what these people did is sickening! I have been a combat soldier that underwent terrorist and anti-terrorist training and an EMT on a crash & rescue unit. I thought I had seen some horrible things. But these people were depraved and demented. They took things beyond the capability of my wildest imagination.<br />This case created what is said to be the \\"costliest and, by far, most controversial manhunt and most sensational trial in Canada's history.\\" It was considered too grisly for television and newspaper coverage at the time. This is the first complete and uncensored account of this couple's rape/murder spree. There is a large percentage of the population that feel justice was not served in this case and that feel the prosecutors failed to do their job.<br />In spite of the gory details, or perhaps because of them, this is a fascinating read. You just cannot believe that it is nonfiction. It makes you look twice at everyone you meet.	2003-05-19
US	32962116	R2FCHN28VGGA7O	0312970692	641228670	The Mother, The Son, And The Socialite: The True Story Of A Mother-Son Crime Spree (St. Martin's True Crime Library)	Books	1	1	2	N	N	If you can find the story among the historical meanderings..	This is the story of Sante Kimes, her son, Kenneth, and the murder of Irene Silverman. Well, it is supposed to be that story.<br />The story opens with a scene of Kenneth Kimes lugging a suitcase dripping blood down the sidewalk and putting it into the truck of their Lincoln towncar, then speeding away. Then it jumps to the early days of the victim, Irene Silverman, and her career as a ballet dancer. <br />The author leaps into the past and tells the story of the Kimes gang from the early 1900's. Although this has no bearing on the story being told, he meanders through it anyway. Then, he tells the life story of the parents of both Sante Kimes, her husband, and his first wife. He goes to great length to tell about the nasty divorce proceedings from that first marriage. Then, he finally gets around to the life story of Sante Kimes and her son. <br />Although the book contains some interesting reading, it meanders too far off course in an attempt to \\"flesh out\\" the manuscript. I found the ancestral rambling to be boring and actually skipped most of two chapters. While the movie might be okay, the book was a real bummer!	2003-05-19
US	32962116	R2D4XQTMBT7EK2	0743439740	243086094	Every Breath You Take: A True Story of Obsession, Revenge, and Murder	Books	5	1	3	N	N	What a book!	This is the story of the murder of Shelia Blackthorne Bellush, former wife of multimillionaire Allen Blackthorne. Unlike most true crime stories, this one was written at the request of the victim. She had asked family and friends to contact the author if anything ever happened to her. For a decade, the victim lived with the premonition that her rich ex-husband would find her and have her killed. <br />This 446-page book is divided into short chapters, which you won't even notice once you start reading. This one will keep you turning pages and wanting to know what comes next. <br />Allen had always been an abusive, sadistic person. At any early age, he attempted to rape one of his dates. He was drawn to cross-dressing, voyeurism, and many sexual deviations of an extreme kind. His first two wives fled and went into hiding.<br />Shelia was the poor girl from a broken family that wanted to rise above her background. When Allen came into the law office where she worked, she thought she had met her soul mate. He appeared to be wealthy and well educated. He was everything she wanted in a man ... for all outward appearances. <br />The author pulls you into the story and never lets up. There are no lulls in the story; no fluff or filler. It is suspense at its finest! She moves in an orderly chronological fashion, with timely flashes, in a way that keeps you totally immersed in the story. It offers everything you could want in a story: action, drama, romance, suspense, and even horror. It is definitely one of the best books I have read in years and I look forward to reading other works by this author.	2003-05-19
US	32962116	R2TOBCF6BE7P3W	0312262701	715550094	While Innocents Slept:  A Story of Revenge, Murder, and SIDS	Books	5	5	7	N	N	A fascinating SIDS controversy	This book is a spellbinding read. It reads more like a novel than real life. You are left wondering if Missy was honestly trying to protect a baby or if she was just a scorned woman seeking revenge. Obviously, the jury felt she was trying to save a baby's life.<br />It is the story of a con man, a scorned ex-wife, two SIDS deaths of babies, coroners that reversed their autopsy decision years after the fact, and a man that was convicted because of insurance policies and reputation. <br />The case put SIDS evidence, or the lack of it, on trial as much as anything else. Experts refuted each other and presented conflicting studies and statistics. It was an interesting debate.<br />I found the entire book fascinating and highly recommend it.	2003-05-19
US	32962116	R250B7ELC5VSEV	0312976852	579371707	Tainted Roses: A True Story of Murder, Mystery, and a Dangerous Love	Books	5	4	7	N	N	The anti-dating true crime book.	Here is the true story of the ideal man and marriage gone wrong. Margie Danielsen was a divorced mother of three. When she met Sean Paul Lanier in July, she began a whirlwind courtship that brought her romantic fantasies to life. He was everything that she had dreamed of in a man. In November, he presented her with a sapphire and diamond \\"promise\\" ring. They were married on Valentine's Day.<br />Things were going fine until Margie's best friend called six weeks later to say that Sean Paul was on television in a show called America's Most Wanted. But they said his name was Paul Steven Mack. He was being sought for the 19 February, 1987 rape and murder of Karen Winslett. He was also under investigation in connection with the disappearance and murder of his secretary, Annette Huddle. The nineteen-year-old had disappeared on 8 July. She was found floating in the river on 11 July. <br />This book will keep you on the edge of your seat. It is extremely well written. I highly recommend. It will make any single woman stop and carefully evaluate her life before going out on a date!	2003-05-19
US	32962116	RLQEGHGAUVXIN	0312974574	119262541	Murder at Yosemite (St. Martin's True Crime Library,)	Books	1	5	8	N	N	Pitiful true crime writing	On February 15, 1999, three women disappeared without a trace from a motel at the entrance to Yosemite National Park. They were athletic women and in good health. They were Carole Sund; her daughter, Juli; and an exchange student from South America, Silvina Pelosso. For more than a month authorities searched extensively for any indication of what happened to them. It was the 20th of March before an answer was uncovered. Carole Sund's rental car was found. The remains of two bodies were in the trunk. They were identified as Carole Sund and Silvina Pelosso. Juli Sund's remains were found five days later near Lake Pedro. <BR>     <BR>Witnessed reported odd behaviors on the part of Cary Anthony Stayner, a 37 year-old handyman working in Yosemite. Authorities located him on July 24, 1999. He immediately confessed to the murder of Joie Armstrong. Then, he confessed to killing Carole Sund, Juli Sund, and Silvina Pelosso.<BR>    <BR>Great controversy exists over Stayner's guilt or innocence. Many believe he did not actually commit the murders, but simply confessed for the attention. His younger brother, Steven, was abducted at age seven by a pedophile. He was forced to live with the pervert for seven years before he could escape. Steven received extensive media coverage, including a movie. From the time of his arrest, Cary constantly asked about getting on television and having movies made.<br />There is also controversy about whether he acted alone, if he is, indeed, guilty. Most people feel that he could not have handled three athletic women. They question how he could have held the gun on them and tied them up with duct tape. Many feel that there are other guilty parties still roaming free. At the time of the writing, this case had not gone to trial.  <br />The author frequently omits the word \\"that\\" from his sentences. This greatly reduces the clarity at times and I found myself stopping to reread a sentence slowly to discern the meaning. There were many inaccuracies and a few wayward tangents. All considered, I felt this was a poor excuse for true crime journalism and I am really disappointed that St. Martin's would allow such slipshod editing to pass.	2003-05-19
US	32962116	RG4PHH2NJYFX	1885840012	884644399	Sex, Power & Murder	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A must read true crime book. Riveting!	This book is based upon the files of the National Enquirer. At the time of the writing, no charges had been filed in the Chandra Levy case and the investigation was ongoing. The book follows the events from the time Levy disappeared, on 1 May 2001, to the weeks following discovery of her body on 22 May 2002.<br />Levy was an ambitious nonconformist with a fetish for older, married men. She had received several internships before journeying to Washington, D.C. for an internship with the U.S. Bureau of prisons. Within two months she had begun an affair with Congressman Gary Condit. She became obsessed with the man.<br />Congressman Gary Condit was a man with a hidden nature. On the surface, he appeared to be a gentleman of high moral standing, a devoted husband and father. But beneath, he had a wild side with fetishes for S&M, gay sex, group sex, and experimental adventures with sex toys. He was a man of multiple affairs; cheating on his wife since the day they wed. <br />When Levy and Condit collided, it was the beginning of the end for both.<br />I defended Condit so faithfully. When I was living in Modesto, I met him and thought he was a decent, kind man with an open heart for the veterans in his district. He has done so much to help veterans all across America. I still cannot believe he managed to keep his dark side so well hidden! This book blew my mind ... as well as his image!<br />This was an interesting book. It exposes the dark side of both parties. It tells the story from a neutral point, without attempting to sway the reader to either side. Instead, it throws the dirt out there for everybody to read. If you have any interest in this case, this book is a must read!	2003-05-19
US	32962116	R2DTYXRVULST64	1565481577	738137714	Medieval Women Mystics: Gertrude the Great, Angela of Foligno, Birgitta of Sweden, Julian of Norwich: Selected Spiritual Writings (Spirituality Through The Ages Series)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Wonderfully inspirational & unplifting	Medieval Women Mystics: Gertrude the Great, Angela of Foligno, Birgitta of Sweden, Julian of Norwich: Selcted Spiritual Writings<br />Medieval Women Mystics is a wonderfully inspirational and uplifting book of spiritual writings by women who lived in the medieval era during the radically changing Christian reform. These writings were compiled and edited by a contemplative nun of the Carmelite Order, Sister Elizabeth Ruth Obbard.<br />In the introduction, Obbard introduces us to the medieval era and explains how the roles of women were changing and how their individual philosophy was mimicking the changes within society. Women were forming new religious orders, such as the beguines, and women saints were suddenly increasing in number. Women were stepping into new religious roles while the men were away on crusades. Many were adopting prophetic roles. As the age of romance and chivalry unfolded, women began to incorporate passion and romance into their Christianity, desiring to be the bride of the Lord. It was an era of widespread upheaval in the belief s of Christians. <br />Another important change that took place during this period was in education. Previously, education had been reserved for the elite, royalty or the wealthiest of the upper echelons of society. During medieval times, as women were elevated in their position in society, they were given the opportunity to learn to read and write. Many of them began to record their thoughts in written form. But while the men focused their writing on the theological aspect of spirituality, the women utilized all their senses, including their sexuality. This got their writings swept under the carpet and mostly ignored. It is only in the recent years, as the feminist movement has gained widespread support, that these writings are beginning to be taken seriously in the world of Christianity.<br />Obbard has arranged her book into four sections, one for each of the women included: Gertrude the Great, Angela of Foligno, Birgitta of Sweden, and Julian of Norwich. All four women lived between 1248 and 1420, but their lives were quite different in many respects. Each section begins with an introduction that tells about the woman, when she lived, how she lived, and what she believed. Then, Obbard provides many pages of their writings, covering the widest array of spiritual topics imaginable. My favorite was Gertrude the Great, who maintained that God was, in fact, a woman.<br />These writings will uplift your soul and warm your heart. They are the testimonies of four women that were thinking and acting ahead of their time. These women had a message to deliver to the world and had a gift for delivering it through the written word. Their writings are beautiful!	2003-04-28
US	32962116	R304RBBCAR602P	1565480589	44953178	Catherine of Siena: Passion for the Truth--Compassion for Humanity	Books	5	17	18	N	N	Teaches us to seek peace and extend true love to others	Catherine of Siena: Passion for the Truth Compassion for Humanity: Selected Spiritual Writings<br />Catherine Benincasa, named the \\"Doctor of the Church,\\" lived during the fourteenth century in Italy. She was born in 1347 and grew up during a period almost identical to ours: one of war, famine, homelessness, confusion, social upheaval, crisis in the church, and a plague of unknown origin and having no known cure. Her theological writings applied to her own time, but also apply to our modern situation. We should be especially attentive to her role as a peacemaker and her writings that pertain to the subject of peace.<br />Catherine dedicated her life to becoming a \\"Mantellata\\" with the Dominican Order. Although she declined to move into the monastery near the church of St. Dominic in Siena, she dressed in their white tunic with a black mantle and followed the rules of the Dominican Order. Upon joining the order, she went home and confined herself to solitary prayer for a period of three years. She only ventured back into the world upon a command from God that to love him, she must love her neighbor. If she truly loved her neighbor, she must put forth an effort to help relieve their suffering.<br />This woman saw her role in life to be one of messenger to the people. She maintained that love of God and love of neighbor were synonymous and that you could not have one without the other. Likewise, they increased and decreased in equal increments. This was the basis for all her testimonials and teachings. She spent many years of her life as a peacemaker and tried to teach people that Jesus was the greatest proponent of peace through all history. To live a good Christian and walk in His footsteps, we must seek peace!<br />The writings in this book clearly demonstrate Catherine's intense love and passion for the Lord. Her words are exuberant and her writings intensely ecstatic, filled with passionate cries of servitude, friendship, and love. As you read them, you will become caught up in the spirit of worship. You will become engulfed in the flames of her passion for all things right and just. There are so many strong messages and lessons in this book. For example, Catherine explains how to love your neighbor, have charity, and be an obedient servant to the Lord.<br />These writings are equally as applicable today as they were during the fourteenth century. In our time of confusion, this is a book filled with logical answers that are simple to understand. It should be of great benefit to every reader.	2003-04-28
