US	32987921	RYEUAYL6PAF7V	0815410255	344245815	Clara Bow: Runnin' Wild	Books	5	103	105	N	N	Celebration of a complicated life	This is an excellent thorough look at one of the most fascinating moviestars of early cinema, Clara Bow.  Instead of writing a highly sensationalised account, Mr. Stenn uses a lot of solid research and facts, not rehashing and keeping alive the same old trashy rumors and character assassinations.  He even disproves the most infamous urban legend of them all, the one about Clara and the USC football team.  What does emerge is the portrait of a very sad vulnerable tragic person.  Clara came from dirt-poor Brooklyn roots, with mental illness running in her family, moving often in childhood, picked on by her peers and terribly abused at home.  And like many abused children, she made excuses for it, believing they did it for her own good, that it was in her own best interest that her mother tried to kill her, that her father often beat her and once raped her.  Her luck really began changing when she went west and broke into movies, after winning a local talent contest at the age of sixteen, and for a time enjoyed a semblance of happiness.  However, her career began to decline in the early Thirties after a number of scandals (contrary to another urban legend, it wasn't really because of the coming of sound, although she did have a terrible case of microphone-phobia), and she finally left Paramount, feeling it in her own best interest.  During this time, she married Rex Bell, who for a time provided her with a very happy secure life, as well as the two sons she adored and tried to be the ideal mother to.  However, her past caught up with her and she eventually had to go to a number of doctors and psychiatrists, falling victim to the same schizophrenia that her mother and other female relatives had suffered from, and died at the relatively young age of sixty.<br /><br />It would be too easy for a biographer to paint a picture of Clara as a sleazy party-crazy bed-hopping woman of loose morals and ill repute who just got lucky, but Mr. Stenn instead paints a picture of a woman who was just a sweet scared vulnerable person who never really had a childhood, who just wanted love, security, and acceptance, and tried to get it in all of the wrong ways.  She deserved so much better than abusive parents, a manager who exploited her, a studio that rarely put her in anything but predictable formula pictures instead of more serious dramatic roles, a press that repeatedly made up disgusting allegations against her (whether of a sexual nature or not), people who still believe these ridiculous stories that were manufactured decades ago, and a society that didn't fully understand the schizophrenia she suffered from, the disease that fully began showing itself after she was no longer acting.man who was just a sweet scared vulnerable person who never really had a childhood, who just wanted love, security, and acceptance, and tried to get it in all of the wrong ways.  She deserved so much better than abusive parents, a manager who exploited her, a studio that rarely put her in anything but predictable formula pictures instead of more serious dramatic roles, a press that repeatedly made up disgusting allegations against her (whether of a sexual nature or not), people who still believe these ridiculous stories that were manufactured decades ago, and a society that didn't fully understand the schizophrenia she suffered from, the disease that fully began showing itself after she was no longer acting.	2005-10-09
US	32987921	R6OOBMWTQNIKG	1879511320	994775089	Vamp: The Rise and Fall of Theda Bara	Books	4	17	17	N	N	All hail the Queen of the Vamps!	This is a fascinating quick read on one of the earliest real moviestars, the screen's first sex symbol, and a truly legendary star.  Ms. Golden writes with a balanced style, neither an unapologetic sycophant nor a hard-to-please critic.  She's an admirer of Theda's life, interested in both her acting career and in her life off of the screen, although she isn't afraid to call a spade a spade and discuss a critical turkey that Theda was cast in.  However, as lively and informative a read as this may be, it can only go into so much depth about Theda's life and acting career, given what a private person she was and how a lot of details about her early life and her life after retiring from the screen may never be fully known.  And, of course, since only a handful of her films survive, none of them representative of her true talents, the discussion about her films can also only go so far and deep.  We get plenty of information about the storylines, critical response to them, the filming experiences, Theda's feelings at acting in them (she was quite unhappy at how most of her roles were Vamping roles instead of getting more chances to play sympathetic characters), but without having a chance to actually see these films, we can't really have a full valid analysis of them.  Reviewers of the time either loved or hated her, and it really does seem like she were a fine screen actor (her stage acting is another matter), but minus the visual evidence, even a good biography such as this one can only go by what people of the time said and what is evident about her talents even in her handful of surviving mediocre vehicles.  Unless more of her films are found, like 'Salome,' 'Cleopatra,' or 'Under Two Flags,' there's no way one can convincingly prove her full worth as an actor, how many of her films would have held up over time, if time might have given some of them their revenge.  But what we do know for certain are the facts reported in this book, that Theodosia Goodman was a pampered child from Ohio, an intellectual snob and insatiable bookworm her entire life, interested in mysticism and things many people today would term Goth (although the stories cooked up about her by the press are another story; she was never that much of a mystic!), devoted to her husband, a very talented actor who was trapped in a role she didn't entirely feel comfortable in, a stunningly beautiful woman when photographed correctly or seen in motion (all of the photos in the book are wonderful!).  I also liked the information on why most of her films were lost; it's well-known that at least 75% of all silents have been lost, but I didn't know the specifics as to why so many of Theda's in particular were lost apart from the fire at Fox Studios in 1937.  Many silents were lost within their own lifetimes, not just by the Thirties and Forties.  It's also explained why she went out of vogue; besides the fact that there were new Vamps on the scene, and that the public preferred flapper movies now, Theda's style of acting had majorly gone out of vogue by the mid-Twenties, when the method of acting that was taught and praised in the Teens had long since been replaced by a more natural acting style.ered child from Ohio, an intellectual snob and insatiable bookworm her entire life, interested in mysticism and things many people today would term Goth (although the stories cooked up about her by the press are another story; she was never that much of a mystic!), devoted to her husband, a very talented actor who was trapped in a role she didn't entirely feel comfortable in, a stunningly beautiful woman when photographed correctly or seen in motion (all of the photos in the book are wonderful!).  I also liked the information on why most of her films were lost; it's well-known that at least 75% of all silents have been lost, but I didn't know the specifics as to why so many of Theda's in particular were lost apart from the fire at Fox Studios in 1937.  Many silents were lost within their own lifetimes, not just by the Thirties and Forties.  It's also explained why she went out of vogue; besides the fact that there were new Vamps on the scene, and that the public preferred flapper movies now, Theda's style of acting had majorly gone out of vogue by the mid-Twenties, when the method of acting that was taught and praised in the Teens had long since been replaced by a more natural acting style.	2005-10-04
US	32987921	R3BQB2QWSLHV7O	082460363X	454089667	Pilgrimage of a Proselyte: From Auschwitz to Jerusalem	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Personal pilgrimage	Like a number of people whom I've read conversion memoirs of or memoirs of their return to their birth religion of Judaism, David Patterson also was active in a lot of the social movements of the Sixties and early Seventies, although unlike most of those other memoirs, he doesn't really dwell on the path that led him to become Jewish or his life until his conversion.  This book focuses upon how his intense connection with the Shoah and the memoirs and literature of the Shoah were the catalyst in leading him to become Jewish, and the pilgrimage he felt he had to embark upon shortly after converting.  He felt he could not call himself a Jew or a human being until he had seen the sights of some of the death camps, topped off by going to Jerusalem (which was his third visit to Israel) and Amsterdam.  Mr. Patterson first heads to Poland, seeing the sights of Treblinka (what remains of it anyway), Majdanek, and Oswiecim-Brzezinka (Auschwitz-Birkenau), writing down his reflections and discoveries as he goes along, in the journal that was to become this book.  He then leaves Poland to go to Israel, primarily visiting the Western Wall and Yad Vashem in Jerusalem, but also visiting the writer and Shoah memoirist Yehiel De-Nur, known as Ha-Katzenik, Yehiel's ailing wife Eliyah, and his friends the Gouris.  During his stay in Israel, a lot of the Falashim (Ethiopian Jews) are airlifted into Israel, an event he also finds time to reflect on.<br /><br />This is clearly a very personal book, based on the very personal notes Mr. Patterson took during his pilgrimage, and thus at times it does have the feel of a personal journal that wasn't intended for publication.  That's not to say it's a huge shortcoming of the book, just that at times it just doesn't read like a professional book.  And I know that Mr. Patterson intended no disrespect in the section about his visit to the Anne Frank House in Amsterdam, but I thought it was rather infantilising how he kept referring to her as a \\"little girl\\" and a \\"child.\\"  Last I checked, she was 15 years old, which most people would consider a young woman, not a \\"little girl.\\"  Another thing that I noticed was how at times some of the prose seemed a little overwrought and maudlin.\\"little girl\\" and a \\"child.\\"  Last I checked, she was 15 years old, which most people would consider a young woman, not a \\"little girl.\\"  Another thing that I noticed was how at times some of the prose seemed a little overwrought and maudlin.	2005-09-22
US	32987921	R3BMPIP6BHV6IW	0520214242	3252556	Lost Names: Scenes from a Korean Boyhood	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Korean pride triumphs	This was probably my favorite of the books we read in the Japanese History course I took my senior year of college.  Young Richard Kim spent the majority of his childhood in his native Korea while it was under occupation by the Japanese, who were not very nice to or tolerant of his people, no matter they were the majority and the occupying Japanese were the minority.  There are many hardships and much prejudice he faces growing up, from neighbors, the government, teachers, and schoolmates, but he never loses his sense of pride and Korean nationalism, constantly being reminded by his parents (who are ministers) and his grandmother to remain aware of where he comes from, his identity, the sustained hope that the Japanese won't always be in Korea, and to do well in school and set a fine example to the Japanese, since he mustn't let those Japanese boys at school think they're better than he is.  When WWII comes along, everyone suffers the normal wartime deprivations, such as food shortages and bombing raids, but it is especially hard for the Koreans in the midst.  Young Richard is forced, along with his classmates, to bow in the direction of the Emperor each morning, recite an ode of allegiance to the Emperor and Japanese government, and, worst of all, to even change his family name.  All Koreans are forced to change their surnames to Japanese surnames, although Richard's father is clever and changes their family's name to one with the root meaning \\"rock,\\" which of course is a reference to Saint Peter and the family's religious faith, a reference the Japanese won't get.  It's enough to take away and try to usurp one's culture, traditions, customs, language, and way of life, but when you take away someone's name, that is in a way the ultimate erasure of their identity.  Even when forced to, at least on the surface, speak a foreign language, submit to foreign leaders, and follow alien customs, there's still the comfort of knowing your base identity, your name, is still the same, but taking it away makes this prejudice and attempted usurpation of Korean culture incredibly personal and insulting.<br /><br />It didn't really bother me that some of these memories and thoughts are very complex and detailed for a child as young as Richard is in the beginning.  Many times memories of traumatic defining events are stronger and more vivid and real precisely because they were so awful and traumatic, leaving more impact than something as mundane as, say, eating breakfast or walking the dog.  And even if some gaps in Richard's memory may have been filled in by what he imagines happened or what his family have told him happened, it doesn't lessen the emotional impact of these events in the slightest.  And I like how it was told in the present tense; since discovering quite some time ago that books can be written in the present tense and there's no rule written in stone saying you must only and always write in the past tense, I've much preferred books written in the present tense.  It makes the events seem more real and gripping, full of suspense and tension, like constantly wondering what's going to happen next, living right in the moment.e same, but taking it away makes this prejudice and attempted usurpation of Korean culture incredibly personal and insulting. <br /> <br />It didn't really bother me that some of these memories and thoughts are very complex and detailed for a child as young as Richard is in the beginning.  Many times memories of traumatic defining events are stronger and more vivid and real precisely because they were so awful and traumatic, leaving more impact than something as mundane as, say, eating breakfast or walking the dog.  And even if some gaps in Richard's memory may have been filled in by what he imagines happened or what his family have told him happened, it doesn't lessen the emotional impact of these events in the slightest.  And I like how it was told in the present tense; since discovering quite some time ago that books can be written in the present tense and there's no rule written in stone saying you must only and always write in the past tense, I've much preferred books written in the present tense.  It makes the events seem more real and gripping, full of suspense and tension, like constantly wondering what's going to happen next, living right in the moment.	2005-09-20
US	32987921	R2AARCX67OTBPR	031242230X	857469136	Beneath the Wheel	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Unterm Rad	(4.5 stars, actually)<br /><br />'Beneath the Wheel,' or, as it was originally titled in German, 'Unterm Rad,' is a stunningly good early Hesse novel, one of his best and more memorable early books (although my personal favorite of his early work is 'Rosshalde').  I wouldn't say it's as memorable as a book like N&G or 'Steppenwolf,' but it's more memorable than, say, 'Knulp' or 'Peter Camenzind.'  It concerns a promising young schoolboy, Hans Giebernath, one of the brightest minds in his local school, who is so intelligent and accomplished a scholar he is chosen to take an important test that, if he passes, will grant him entry into a higher institution of learning and knowledge, so much more advanced and well-equipped than the village school he's currently enrolled in.  If accepted, he will be able to make a better life for himself and make his father, a widower, proud of him.  However, as much as Hans is longing for this opportunity to break away from stagnant home village, he also isn't too keen on the idea of having to study 'round the clock instead of being able to spend more time in one of his very favorite pastimes, fishing.<br /><br />Hans is incredibly worried he won't pass, even after all he's given up and how much he's studied, convinced he has completely blown the Latin or Greek portion of the test.  But, since he's so brilliant, he passes with flying colors and is able to go away to the big school.  However, before he leaves, the local priest counsels him that they may teach him Greek in a \\"heretical\\" fashion; i.e., in a way that may expose some centuries-old mistranslations and misinterpretations of the Bible, and therefore cast into doubt the entirety of religion and the authority of priests such as he is.  Hans doesn't agree with the priest's narrow-minded view, and determines he'll study Greek however he wants to, whether or not it conflicts with traditionalist translations of the Bible.<br /><br />Upon arriving at the school, Hans very soon finds himself crushed further and further \\"beneath the wheel.\\"  Instead of encountering enlightened nurturing teachers, he finds teachers who are little more than machines, not instilling any love of or joy in learning.  He starts falling behind in his studies and suffering from ill health as a result of all of this, and in addition has become friends with Hermann, another nonconformist the school is trying to crack down on.  This friendship gets him into trouble with the other boys as well, not just their teachers.  What follows exposes the dangers lurking in ivory towers, how bright innocent young people who come to post-secondary institutions full of joy, hope, and promise, on a quest for knowledge, enlightenment, and people who feel the same way they do are often turned into mindless automatons or risk paying the price for how they don't fall into line.  Hans himself is eventually expelled the same way Hermann is, finding his way back to his native village, looked on with shame and stigma, with little choice but to follow in his father's footsteps and become a mechanic.  The final result of all of this was really a surprise to me; I did not see the end coming, though some people might have predicted it.inds himself crushed further and further \\"beneath the wheel.\\"  Instead of encountering enlightened nurturing teachers, he finds teachers who are little more than machines, not instilling any love of or joy in learning.  He starts falling behind in his studies and suffering from ill health as a result of all of this, and in addition has become friends with Hermann, another nonconformist the school is trying to crack down on.  This friendship gets him into trouble with the other boys as well, not just their teachers.  What follows exposes the dangers lurking in ivory towers, how bright innocent young people who come to post-secondary institutions full of joy, hope, and promise, on a quest for knowledge, enlightenment, and people who feel the same way they do are often turned into mindless automatons or risk paying the price for how they don't fall into line.  Hans himself is eventually expelled the same way Hermann is, finding his way back to his native village, looked on with shame and stigma, with little choice but to follow in his father's footsteps and become a mechanic.  The final result of all of this was really a surprise to me; I did not see the end coming, though some people might have predicted it.	2005-09-18
US	32987921	RGKCF4KCW5XM0	0312422296	725439547	Rosshalde	Books	5	8	10	N	N	His best early novel!	In my opinion, this novel (which was based on Hesse's first divorce) is not only one of my favorite Hesse novels but also my top favorite out of all of his early novels.  The majority of his pre-'Demian' books are good but just not very complex or memorable.  This one, which I read in one day, is the tops.  It's a beautiful novel about the painter Johann Veraguth, who is spending what he thinks will be an uneventful Summer at his beautiful estate Rosshalde, when his estranged wife Adele and their older son Albert (whom he loathes) show up.  Veraguth had been looking forward to spending Summer catching up with an old friend of his, who has just returned from India and is now gently pressuring Veraguth to return there with him.  The one light left in his life after all of these conflicting forces converge on Rosshalde is his precious younger son Pierre, who was conceived and born during a brief reconciliation between Veraguth and Adele, when Albert was very sick about six years ago.  Veraguth had been all ready to leave with his friend, but he does not want to abandon Pierre, leaving him with Adele, whom he doesn't like or trust, or the stuck-up Albert.  Adele goes so low as to repeatedly use Pierre as emotional blackmail, saying Veraguth will never see his favorite child ever again if he goes off to India.<br /><br />One day Pierre gets very violently ill, and his illness takes up much of the rest of the book.  There's less time for his estranged parents to be constantly fighting once they're taking care of this delirious little boy around the clock.  A few times Pierre appears to be improving, but never for very long.  This condition is so serious it eventually leads Adele to completely change her tune and declare that if Pierre recovers, Veraguth can take him with him to India and have permanent custody of him.  The ending of the book is quite beautiful, poignant, and bittersweet, and full of the hope of begining again.  The final line also reminds me very much of the last line of the Chekhov story 'Lady with Lapdog.'f the last line of the Chekhov story 'Lady with Lapdog.'	2005-09-18
US	32987921	R3GKV7T1YST076	0805211381	572170437	The Rebbe's Army: Inside the World of Chabad-Lubavitch	Books	5	11	14	N	N	Sensitive balanced look at Chabad	Even though this book was not written by a Chabadnik, it gives a very thoughtful sensitive balanced critique of this fascinating all-emcompassing lifestyle and community.  Most people only know Lubavitchers by their wonderful outreach work in encouraging their co-religionists to become more observant, asking men to put on tefillin, giving out Shabbos candles to women, and their thriving Chabad Houses on countless college campuses all over the world, particularly in America.  For many people, be they college students or not, who have never had much of a connection to their birthright or who fell away from it over the years, Chabad has had a deep profound long-lasting impact on their level of religious observance and how they relate to the Jewish community.  But Chabad just isn't about reaching out to the disaffected and curious on college campuses; they are also in cities which don't have universities, sometimes being the only Jewish group or synagogue in the area.  People who might not agree with all of their theology or politics often glowingly report what wonders it has done for them, like enabling their son to have a bar mitzvah, or giving them a place to go for the holidays.  They also do magnificent work abroad, sometimes, as in the case of Eastern Europe, bringing Judaism back after decades of persecution, being underground, and having been all but completely wiped out, and in other places, such as Thailand and India, serving small lesser-known Jewish communities and people who otherwise might never have any outlet for their faith to be manifest.<br /><br />To a large extent, these people are doing it out of the goodness of their hearts, but they also expect something in return, as evidenced by the chapters devoted to their telethons and fund-raising, efforts which are hugely successful in raising money for Chabad.  Many times the largest donations come from people who aren't even Orthodox and who have profound disagreements with their theology and political outlook, but who nevertheless admire the work they do.  They also have vocal critics; some people don't criticise them mainly because of their disagreement on religious and political matters, but because they feel like they're taking over the local Jewish community or drawing people away from the more established synagogues.  And many people dislike them because of what they feel is a cult of personality.<br /><br />Menachem Mendel Schneerson, the seventh Lubavitcher Rebbe, was an extraordinarily kind compassionate learned human being, certainly on the short list of people who might have been Mashiach, someone who had a very long fruitful life, a man after whom many Lubavitcher boys are named to this day.  I've known a number of them, as well as a number of Lubavitcher girls named for his wife Mushka and nicknamed Mushke.  He certainly wasn't someone everyone would agree with, but everyone who ever met him reported feeling like they were in the presence of someone truly great, sensitive, compassionate, and many people reported wondrous things happening to them after following the Rebbe's instructions, such as an infertile couple being blessed with their first child after years of trying, single people finding spouses, and someone down on one's luck suddenly being very successful and well-off financially.  Even today many Lubavitchers and non-Lubavitchers alike visit his grave to pray and leave requests.  And when the Rebbe died in June of 1994, he left no appointed successor or heirs (sadly, he never had any children).  Even before his death, there was already a movement to declare him Mashiach, and people who felt he agreed with this assessment, but as some Chabadniks have pointed out, the poor man was so old and out of it that he didn't know what was going on, and what some people interpreted as agreeing he was Mashiach were merely the reactions of a very old man whose brain was a cucumber, who didn't know where he was half the time.  Even though the majority of Lubavitchers seem to have made it clear they do not feel he was Mashiach, there is still what many outsiders feel to be a troubling cult of personality.  But love them or hate them, Chabad is here to stay, and for all some people disagree with them, there's no denying they have done superb work all around the world and that the majority of them are wonderful sweet welcoming kind gracious nonjugdmental people.f Lubavitchers seem to have made it clear they do not feel he was Mashiach, there is still what many outsiders feel to be a troubling cult of personality.  But love them or hate them, Chabad is here to stay, and for all some people disagree with them, there's no denying they have done superb work all around the world and that the majority of them are wonderful sweet welcoming kind gracious nonjugdmental people.	2005-09-15
US	32987921	R3RQFP5PH5RYLC	0878391711	422438378	Hiding in the Open: A Holocaust Memoir	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Gripping read	This really is a truly incredible read, presenting a unique perspective on the Shoah.  Unlike many all-too-familiar accounts, the characters in this memoir are never in any camps or being hidden in a closet or attic (apart from the brief time when the two main characters are being hidden in a tiny attic in their friends' house).  A few hours before an upcoming Aktion which they are warned about, Sabina, her sister Helka, her brother Natek, and their parents flee the ghetto in the Polish city of Piotrkow (one of hundreds of towns and cities all across Poland which completely lost their Jewish community), under cover of night.  They decided to split up and be safer that way; Natek went with their mother, their father went alone, and the two sisters went off on their own.  Initially hidden by their schoolteacher friend Mrs. Justyna and her two daughters Danka and Mala, lifelong friends of Helka and Sabina and eventually recognised by Yad Vashem as the Righteous Among the Nations, they then have to spend their time hiding in open fields and the stairwells of apartments before going back to the Justynas, who again take them in, but only for a short time.<br /><br />Using fake ID cards given to them by the Justynas, the two girls sign up for work in Germany, where they hope they won't stand as great a chance at being recognised, and where they hope to get better food and treatment.  Everything goes off without a hitch, and they blend in very well at the Lager they are assigned to, until two new girls arrive, girls whom they highly suspect of being Jewish because of the fear and sadness with which they conduct themselves, and the sisters decide to leave and go further south, where they hope they can eventually get into Switzerland.  Things don't work out like that, and despite some close calls throughout the rest of the War, they work in a hotel in the beautiful Bavarian city of Regensburg.  One of the men working there with them, an Austrian with a Slavic surname and very anti-Nazi views, even gets permission to take them with him for a weeklong vacation back to Vienna.<br /><br />Also unlike a number of Shoah memoirs, this doesn't end shortly after the liberation or have no sequel.  We learn all about what the sisters and the remaining members of their shrunken family went through in Europe during the first five years after the liberation, how they went back to Piotrkow but eventually returned to Regensburg with two of their remaining relatives, an uncle and one of his daughters.  During the next five years, Sabina went to medical school in Germany, long a dream of hers, and eventually everyone in the family, along with the husbands Helka and Sabina had found (Sabina married her boyfriend, who immigrated first, after she came to America), were allowed to come to America.  We also learn about Sabina's life after immigration, such as how hard she worked to learn English and have her medical license recognised, and how some people didn't take her seriously because she was a female doctor, or were convinced she was confused and meant to say she was a nurse, since they thought only men could be doctors.  There are also a number of pictures populating the book, not only of their friends and relatives (some of whom perished), but also the wonderful friends Sabina made in Germany after the War, when she was a student.  We also see pictures of the surviving members of the family after the War, including Sabina and Helka's little brother (who was eight and six years, respectively, their junior); he was quite a handsome young man.<br /><br />Some people claim Shoah memoirs start to all sound the same after awhile, but this one is one of the ones that stands out, because the author and her sister were living in the open in relative freedom and security, not spending most of the time in a ghetto or camp.  There was a very broad range of experiences and survival stories, and this is one of the ones that most people aren't familiar with.  My onlysmall complaint is that I noticed a number of typograhical errors (some misspellings, a bunch of misplaced or missing commas, a number of missing definite articles, etc.); this may very well be due to the fact that English isn't Dr. Zimering's first language, but there are times when it feels like it wasn't proofread closely enough.y only small complaint is that I noticed a number of typograhical errors (some misspellings, a bunch of misplaced or missing commas, a number of missing definite articles, etc.); this may very well be due to the fact that English isn't Dr. Zimering's first language, but there are times when it feels like it wasn't proofread closely enough.	2005-09-15
US	32987921	RQMN8BQQYINHO	0312282311	879378123	Beyond Paradise: The Life of Ramon Novarro	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Incredible biography	This is an incredibly riveting compelling read, and beyond being entertaining and informative, it's also a balanced thoughtful sensitive portrait of a fascinating human being and actor.  Some celebrity biographies seem to have been written by people who can't stand their subject and some are written by people who are too in love with the subject to think clearly, but this one gives a nicely balanced account.  We see here a man who was a very fine gifted talented actor, but who eventually became a has-been, for various reasons, who didn't always give his all to selecting the best projects because of his conflicting desire to have a career as an opera singer, and who was deeply torn over his genuine deep committment to his family, his Mexican roots, and his Catholic faith, and how he was also a gay man in a time and a society where that subject was strictly taboo.  Even at the time of his murder by two young hustlers, gayness was still considered a psychiatric disorder.  Because Ramon kept so much of his life private, this biography can't tell us everything about his personal life, but it is made clear he was:<br /><br />A very talented actor (he was allowed more range and depth of roles than some of his other romantic leading man counterparts), a man who played to perfection a number of dream roles, most notably that of Judah Ben-Hur in the 1925 version of the screen adaptation of the General Lew Wallace novel, as well as starring with a number of great leading ladies;<br /><br />A talented singer (even though his acting and singing careers conflicted multiple times and mutually hindered one another);<br /><br />A devoted family man, deeply religious (he seriously wanted to enter a religious order at several points in his life), becoming the head of the household after his family immigrated to America, as the oldest surviving son in a family of originally twelve children, stepping into the shoes of his father, who had once been a successful dentist but became too ill to support his family during much of his life;<br /><br />A good human being in spite of natural human flaws (such as his problems with drinking in his later years and several car accidents caused by his heavy drinking);<br /><br />Someone who sometimes wasn't always the most agreeable person, as evidenced by when he was touring a play in England in the Thirties and getting catcalled by the audience who couldn't hear him, since Ramon had never learnt how to project his voice, being a screen and not stage actor, and actually stepped out of the play to catcall back, \\"Now, *I* can't hear *you*!\\"<br /><br />Even though he is most remembered today for playing the title role in 'Ben-Hur' and for being murdered in his home on Halloween Eve 1968 by two young hustlers, which finally exposed to the public that which he had worked so hard to keep hidden and private (i.e., the fact that he was gay), he was so much more than either of those things, a deeply talented and flawed man.  This biography truly does his life and character justice.too ill to support his family during much of his life;  <br /> <br />A good human being in spite of natural human flaws (such as his problems with drinking in his later years and several car accidents caused by his heavy drinking); <br /> <br />Someone who sometimes wasn't always the most agreeable person, as evidenced by when he was touring a play in England in the Thirties and getting catcalled by the audience who couldn't hear him, since Ramon had never learnt how to project his voice, being a screen and not stage actor, and actually stepped out of the play to catcall back, \\"Now, *I* can't hear *you*!\\" <br /> <br />Even though he is most remembered today for playing the title role in 'Ben-Hur' and for being murdered in his home on Halloween Eve 1968 by two young hustlers, which finally exposed to the public that which he had worked so hard to keep hidden and private (i.e., the fact that he was gay), he was so much more than either of those things, a deeply talented and flawed man.  This biography truly does his life and character justice.	2005-09-14
US	32987921	R325VFCV3SR0KM	0440153255	934252199	Hollywood Babylon: The Legendary Underground Classic of Hollywood's Darkest and Best Kept Secrets	Books	2	6	17	N	N	Absolute trash	It's hard to know where to begin when talking about this sensationalistic tabloid-like book.  On the one hand, not everything is a lie, exaggeration, urban legend, or told in a gleefully sensationalistic manner, and there are good pictures, but those aspects are really overwhelmed by how much of the book just isn't true.  It's uncertain just what propelled Kenneth Anger (who has a very fitting surname) to write this book; was it the fact he was bitter that his own Hollywood career never came to anything much, a general dislike of most of the stars from Hollywood's Golden Age, a love of sensational gossip in general, or something else?  He's a writer of the same caliber as an Albert Goldman or Geoffrey Giuliano and their own celebrity biographies--it's been shown that most of what they've written just isn't true and has no basis in factual evidence and has never been proven, so you have to doubt everything they write, even if some passages are true or written in a respectful manner.  He's like the boy who cried wolf.  Although amazingly quite a few people believe all of the stories in this book and they're now regularly discussed like they actually happened and are absolute fact, even though they're the results of speculation, urban legends that have been disproven yet just won't go away because of books like this, and are outright lies and character assassinations.<br /><br />Just because I'm a fan of many of the celebrities from Old Hollywood doesn't mean I'm incapable of accepting that some of them did have less than perfect lives, personal scandals, and were the complete opposite of their screen personalities.  But by and large, with certain exceptions, the stars of that era were classy, keeping their personal and private lives separate.  Even if they did have, say, problems with alcohol, sleeping around, or drug abuse, they still presented positive public images and role models of class, grace, and style.  It wasn't like today, when people seem to know just about every detail of a celebrity's private life.  Does Anger somehow feel that celebrities of yore were more prone to scandal and devastating problems?  And why does anyone want to know some of these sleazy details, like about someone dying on the toilet?  Are we supposed to suddenly no longer like this person's body of work?  Even some celebrity biographies that do report events of this nature at least balance it out with just as much positive information and a respectful tone, instead of taking delight in tearing down reputations.  It would seem baffling as to why people now take some of these stories as accepted facts, no matter how many times they've been disproven, but again, it seems to be human nature to believe the bad and not the good.out every detail of a celebrity's private life.  Does Anger somehow feel that celebrities of yore were more prone to scandal and devastating problems?  And why does anyone want to know some of these sleazy details, like about someone dying on the toilet?  Are we supposed to suddenly no longer like this person's body of work?  Even some celebrity biographies that do report events of this nature at least balance it out with just as much positive information and a respectful tone, instead of taking delight in tearing down reputations.  It would seem baffling as to why people now take some of these stories as accepted facts, no matter how many times they've been disproven, but again, it seems to be human nature to believe the bad and not the good.	2005-09-06
US	32987921	R1NQUINV6C5E1E	0312182759	89767860	Dark Star: The Untold Story of the Meteoric Rise and Fall of Legendary Silent Screen Star John Gilbert	Books	5	26	27	N	N	A loving honest biography	To date I've only seen a handful of Jack Gilbert movies, but I still count him as one of my favorite male actors, based not only on what little I've seen so far but also all of the wonderful things I've read about his great talent and what a wonderful nice kind person he was as well.  This loving biography only confirms that Jack was a very talented capable performer and kind and giving in real life as well.  Many biographies written by children of the stars go either one of two ways--nasty and vituperative, working out one's issues by attacking the parent, or overly candy-coated, unable to say a single bad word about the parent.  Leatrice clearly adored her father, but that doesn't mean she's afraid to tell it like it is when need be.  She's very up-front when writing about some of Jack's problems, like with keeping a marriage together and some of the problems he had with alcohol.  Her parents split up a few months before she was born, but for various reasons Jack was never able to be really fully involved in his daughter's life until his final year, when Leatrice was ten and eleven years old.  They really became close and bonded that year, after she sent him a fan letter and discovered that her daddy really loved her and had always been thinking about her, had long hoped she would contact and confide in him when she got older, might have been an absentee father physically but never emotionally (for example, one summer a few years before they began their loving father-daughter relationship, Jack saved Leatrice from drowning at the beach when she was swimming alone among some rough tides, out of sight of the other people on the shore).<br /><br />Besides paying loving tribute to her father, Leatrice also wrote this book to set the record straight.  For decades a lot of misinformation had been told and retold about her father's acting career and capabilities, particularly about why he fell from grace.  The reasons for his plummet from being the top male romantic lead to someone who was put in very few quality talking pictures were many and complex, but mainly driven by how Louis B. Mayer had always hated Jack and really sabotaged his career.  All of the stories about LBM really are true; he does not come across as a nice person in any of them, the way he never forgot a personal slight or things he interpreted as insults, even though they weren't even intended that way, sabotaging many careers because of this paranoia and quest for personal revenge.  The real power at MGM, Irving Thalberg, was everything LBM wasn't--kind, gentle, generous, thoughtful, helpful, and most importantly a dear friend of Jack's, though unfortunately even he was eventually unable to save his career, and Leatrice believes he felt guilty about how he couldn't and didn't do more to help his friend and defend him against LBM when he had the chance.  She delves into the reasons for her father's lackluster career in sound pictures with the same honesty and depth she does when discussing why her parents' marriage broke up and why they never got back together, even though they really did seem to love one another powerfully.  Jack had a pleasant light baritone, even though many otherwise respectable books and film historians had repeated the lie about how he had a squeaky high-pitched whiny voice and was laughed offscreen after his talking debut, and thus driven into excessive alcholism and an early grave.  People would repeat these stories and quote one another, without providing any solid evidence, and without even having seen that first full-length talkie, 'His Glorious Night,' to be in any valid position to say he had a whiny effeminate voice.  Leatrice also discusses how her father was not the alcoholic of legend either; he did drink, sometimes heavily, but he wasn't the wasted alcoholic many people made him out to be either.<br /><br />Besides setting the record straight on the real reasons behind her father's early grave and his freefall from grace at thebox office, Leatrice also does a wonderful job at telling her father's early life story (as well as her mother's story).  This was a true rags to riches story, with young Jack (then known as Cecil) growing up on the road, going from stage to stage with his mother and the other actors in their troupe, farmed out to various friends of his mother, sometimes treated quite badly, but never letting such bad times get to him or scar him.  He also developed his lifelong love of the printed word and high culture during his childhood, becoming an intellectual bookworm who could never amass enough books.  Jack was still a teenager when he began his acting career and working in itinerant jobs away from the stages he had grown up on, and at the time he entered films in 1915, acting was a very dangerous profession; as an extra he oftentimes literally risked his life.  These were the days before unions, days off, adequate pay, and rest breaks, and in the absence of modern-day special effects, these actors and extras had to do all of their own stunts, even if they got seriously hurt.  The death rate for actors was shockingly high in the Teens.  But somehow he managed to rise above his early uncertain beginnings and became a leading man within only a few years of starting to act, as well as, for a time, also directing and writing, having been mentored by some of the leading lights of directors of those days, such as Thomas Ince and Maurice Tourneur.  He was so much more complex than the rumors would suggest.  My only minor complaint is that I wish the filmography in the back had been a little more detailed, such as noting who played whom and which of these films are lost.  A few films she mentions in the main text as being lost, but it seems obvious, given the poor survival rates of silent films, particularly ones from before the Twenties, that a good deal of Jack's early films would be lost.the box office, Leatrice also does a wonderful job at telling her father's early life story (as well as her mother's story).  This was a true rags to riches story, with young Jack (then known as Cecil) growing up on the road, going from stage to stage with his mother and the other actors in their troupe, farmed out to various friends of his mother, sometimes treated quite badly, but never letting such bad times get to him or scar him.  He also developed his lifelong love of the printed word and high culture during his childhood, becoming an intellectual bookworm who could never amass enough books.  Jack was still a teenager when he began his acting career and working in itinerant jobs away from the stages he had grown up on, and at the time he entered films in 1915, acting was a very dangerous profession; as an extra he oftentimes literally risked his life.  These were the days before unions, days off, adequate pay, and rest breaks, and in the absence of modern-day special effects, these actors and extras had to do all of their own stunts, even if they got seriously hurt.  The death rate for actors was shockingly high in the Teens.  But somehow he managed to rise above his early uncertain beginnings and became a leading man within only a few years of starting to act, as well as, for a time, also directing and writing, having been mentored by some of the leading lights of directors of those days, such as Thomas Ince and Maurice Tourneur.  He was so much more complex than the rumors would suggest.  My only minor complaint is that I wish the filmography in the back had been a little more detailed, such as noting who played whom and which of these films are lost.  A few films she mentions in the main text as being lost, but it seems obvious, given the poor survival rates of silent films, particularly ones from before the Twenties, that a good deal of Jack's early films would be lost.	2005-09-04
US	32987921	RQ62S8WGB3N8J	1568213220	670770857	Finding a Home for the Soul: Interviews with Converts to Judaism	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Worth the wait	I wanted this book when I first saw it in the bookstore when it was originally published, but balked at the price, and by the time I began to think about finally getting my own copy, it seemed to have gone out of popular circulation.  I eventually found a used copy for a much more reasonable price, and it was really worth the wait.  I had begun reading it before, and all of the rest of the many personal stories, based on interviews Mrs. Myrowitz had conducted, were just as good.  The author herself is a JBC, and shared in the lengthy but quite good introduction her own personal story and journey.  Like a number of people profiled here, she too technically converted because she was in a relationship with a Jew, but not in the traditional way one is used to.  Instead of undergoing some superficial conversion for no other reason than she was marrying a man who insisted she convert (or whose family ordered her to convert), she had already long been drawn to Judaism and Judaic values anyway, and finding the man who became her husband was more like the catalyst to do something serious about these feelings.  Although not all of the JBCs profiled converted for marriage; some, at least at the date of publication, weren't even in relationships.  Many people assume the only reason someone would become Jewish (or any other non-Christian religion) is because of an impending marriage, but here we have plenty of stories of people who did it only for themselves, before even being in a relationship, or who still aren't in a relationship period, with either a Jew or a Gentile.  And not all of the stories are of white converts; there were some individuals profiled who are African-American, and I loved the story of the woman whose husband was living in France but with Moroccan roots.  It's such a myth that Jews are only white and from Eastern or Central Europe.  Many things led these people to convert, but overall they prove what is often said, that a JBC is oftentimes more devout, passionate, and committed than many JBBs.  I also enjoyed the extensive bibliography and have since read or bought a number of the wonderful books suggested.sionate, and committed than many JBBs.  I also enjoyed the extensive bibliography and have since read or bought a number of the wonderful books suggested.	2005-08-23
US	32987921	R4B9QD5RH6KO4	0452258685	569084995	Saving the Fragments (Plume)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Delightfully bittersweet journey	Even though this book is pretty slim, it still packs a major wallop.  Unlike many Shoah memoirists, Isabella didn't stop at what happened immediately after the liberation.  This wonderful little volume details what she and her two remaining sisters went through from January to June of 1945.  They managed to escape from a death march to Bergen-Belsen on the 23rd of January while most of the guards had run to the back to halt and punish an earlier escape that was already in progress, and the guards who remained in front of the column couldn't see them from their position.  They also happened to be right across the way from a house with no smoke coming from the chimney, and in that blink of an eye it became one sister blindly mutely following the other.  Isabella and the youngest of her remaining sisters were very nearly caught and shot, but miraculously the SS man and his dog walked away without seeing or scenting them.  The oldest sister wasn't as lucky and was captured, beaten, and dragged back to the column to continue the march.  But for the three who escaped, the liberation came a few days later, in form of the Red Army.  For 6 weeks they stayed in the house they'd escaped into, along with 3 Polish women who also escaped into the house (and there were 30 girls and women who escaped in the same vicinity, they discovered).  They were still cold and hungry, and being forced to work for the Russians (such as washing their bloody uniforms in harsh lye and herding cows), and with no stores open had to loot everything, or be ingenious with what they already had, but the thrill of freedom was so great that in the grand scheme of things it didn't really matter to the girls.<br /><br />We see flashes of bitterness and hatred for what was done to their family and against the people who did it to them in the first place, but overwhelmingly this is a story of their reawakening, their gradual return to normal life and the human family, a constant continual joy and delight in life, at all of the people they met on the road in front of their house, on the road from Jagadschutz to the train station in Oelsk, on the train to Odessa, and finally in the refugee center in Odessa.  These people knew what had happened and then some, had already lived through too much for one to expect them to be happy or hopeful, yet there they all were, full of love, life, hope for the future, constant acts of little kindnesses to total strangers to whom they instantly felt like lifelong friends or family, were constantly upbeat about the future, optimistically asking anyone and everyone if they'd seen their missing friends and family, to tell them they were alive if they saw them, hoping that their oldest sister and only brother would find them anyday now.  The joy and love in these pages are balanced by the sorrow of remembering the barely recent past and how they will forever be condemned to live in two worlds, then and now, that the memories will live as long as they do, but this is not a book about hate and bitterness, it's a book about forging a hopeful loving future.  As it says in one passage, these sisters were sewn together emotionally in the camps, a powerful bond forged in fire, and on the road from liberation to joining their father in America they continue to be virtually inseperable, still helping and supporting one another.  And as we find out, the youngest sister Regina (called \\"Rachel\\" in this original volume because at the time she didn't want her real name in print) turned out to be the bravest strongest one, the mother hen to this shrunken little family, when before she'd been the one who most wanted to go the way of the smoke, saying the moment they were separated she'd go to the crematorium and wouldn't mind, and that she was only making this superhuman effort for her three older sisters.<br /><br />By now this volume has been made largely obsolete, however, because of the publication of it and 'Fragments of Isabella' in one combined volume, but here as in the first book we see sentences, minor but telling words and phrases, and even entire paragraphs that were excised in the updated edition.  The most glaring omission is in one of the early chapters, where Isabella is talking about how she and her sisters have no feelings as they step over a dead body on the newly liberated German roads, and only perk up if the corpse, Nazi or not, is wearing nicer clothes than theirs.  In this original volume there are several paragraphs talking about how this numbness to death was formed in Auschwitz, when every morning the women who had died overnight were stacked up outside of the barracks and collected by the Totekommando, and how glad she always was that she wasn't among the dead stacked up outside of the various blocks.  \\"There but for the grace of the deadly night was I.\\"  It's also bittersweet to realise that while Isabella and the two sisters whom she escaped with are adjusting to freedom and on their wonderful life-affirming journey to Odessa and then America, their fourth sister was still on the death march and then in Bergen-Belsen, that she was liberated and died soon afterward as they were sailing to America, knowing that if the guards hadn't returned at that moment, she would have been with them.olume, but here as in the first book we see sentences, minor but telling words and phrases, and even entire paragraphs that were excised in the updated edition.  The most glaring omission is in one of the early chapters, where Isabella is talking about how she and her sisters have no feelings as they step over a dead body on the newly liberated German roads, and only perk up if the corpse, Nazi or not, is wearing nicer clothes than theirs.  In this original volume there are several paragraphs talking about how this numbness to death was formed in Auschwitz, when every morning the women who had died overnight were stacked up outside of the barracks and collected by the Totekommando, and how glad she always was that she wasn't among the dead stacked up outside of the various blocks.  \\"There but for the grace of the deadly night was I.\\"  It's also bittersweet to realise that while Isabella and the two sisters whom she escaped with are adjusting to freedom and on their wonderful life-affirming journey to Odessa and then America, their fourth sister was still on the death march and then in Bergen-Belsen, that she was liberated and died soon afterward as they were sailing to America, knowing that if the guards hadn't returned at that moment, she would have been with them.	2005-08-21
US	32987921	R2PPXQNPK9WJVJ	0425166309	840244246	The Seamstress	Books	5	75	78	N	N	Unique compelling account	This is the first book about the Shoah I've read that takes place in Romania (apart from the excerpt from Miriam Korber's diary in the anthology 'Salvaged Pages').  All of the other books and memoirs are from places like Poland, Hungary, Germany, France, Holland, anywhere but Romania, which also suffered mighty losses during the Shoah, though not always in the same way as in those other conquered nations.  Seren was the third-last child of a huge family, composed of both full siblings and half-siblings, and despite having a strict father and living in a nation with rampant anti-Semitism, even among small children who were taught to hate, a land where Jews were not granted civil rights and civil liberties until 1923, and then only very reluctantly, she always stood apart from others.  She was willing to fight back and to be her own person, to leave home at 13 to attend the gymnasium in Bucharest, to strike out on her own after throwing a bottle of ink at an anti-Semitic priest teacher and never going back to the gymnasium.  Seren loved being a dressmaker, even designing gowns for members of Romania's Royal Family, though she didn't tell her family for some time what she was really doing and that she'd left gymnasium.<br /><br />Unlike many other Shoah memoirs, this begins when Seren is quite young and continues through her childhood, adolescence, and early adulthood.  (She is also a bit older than the typical writers of such memoirs; she was 26 years old when she was forced into the labor brigade and the camps, not a teenager or even in her early twenties.)  There were increasing incidents of anti-Semitism both at home and in surrounding nations, but things are still relatively \\"normal\\" a lot longer than in many other memoirs of this nature.  Many start out normally but quickly move to the camps and ghettos; this book doesn't move to that territory for some time.  Even after Seren sneaks her way over the new border through the mountain at the foot of her family's house shortly after Romania is carved up by Hungary and the Soviet Union, and she and her father are arrested and treated quite terribly, she still eventually manages to finally be released and go back to her family, whom she is ordered to move to another town.  Her father is suffering in prison, but the family is largely still intact.  It is while Seren is working in Budapest with her youngest sister Esther and two new friends of theirs that the town they left most of their remaining family in gets invaded by the Nazis along with the rest of Hungary, and but for the ones who have already escaped to the relative \\"safety\\" of Budapest or who are somewhere else, most of them are murdered.  It is only in the Summer of 1944 that Seren, Esther, and their friends Lily and Ellen (the Helinka later referred to in the Epilogue?) are taken to a labor brigade; after several months of that they are transferred to the first of eventually three camps they would be in.  They weren't taken to one of the death camps in Poland, but conditions were just as bad where they were; it's a marvel they managed to survive until the liberation in the Spring of 1945.  I also liked how much time was spent to writing about what happened after the liberation; too many memoirs of this nature either have no sequels or only spend a few pages on relating what happened immediately after the liberation, wrapping things up without any real sense of resolution.  A lot of people make the claim that many books about the Shoah start to seem all the same after awhile, only with different names, places, and specific incidents, but because of all of the rich detail, many different characters, timeframe, locations, the fact that the author was together with a sister and two friends instead of (as one tends to see more often) mainly surviving for another sibling and not friends, how much time goes by before things really start getting horrible, and the age of the author, this book truly provides a unique and grippingperspective.ng perspective.	2005-08-01
US	32987921	R2HFM4UQEL1HH3	0690017790	182620349	Fragments of Isabella: A Memoir of Auschwitz	Books	5	20	22	N	N	In a way more haunting than the updated combined volume	This book is slimmer than the volume which came out in 1994, combining and somewhat updating this and the sequel 'Saving the Fragments,' but in a way it has more of an emotional impact, even considering a lot of the powerful vignettes of Isabella and her by then two remaining sisters after the liberation are completely left out.  Because it's so short, it has more room to leave a deeper emotional impact; it didn't really dawn on me until rather recently that this, the most powerful book I've ever read, offers up relatively little details about daily life in the camps or seemingly important events and rituals the then-four remaining sisters would have gone through, like mealtime, beatings, the superiors in their barracks, the type of \\"work\\" they were forced to do, and their boarding of and ride in the icy halftrack from Auschwitz to Birnbaumel in November 1944.  We get some events that took place in both camps, but not, as in other Shoah memoirs, long detailed passages and chapters accounting for every day, week, or even month spent there.  What has made this book so powerful to me over the years aren't the details but rather the truly touching and genuine bond between Isabella and her sisters, how they stayed alive and together for one another, because of one another, even when it would have been easier, particularly for the youngest remaining sister Regina (called \\"Rachel\\" in this book because she wouldn't let Isabella use her real name in print at the time), to go the way of the smoke.  We don't even know the ages of the four sisters, which makes it harder to picture the full dynamics of this relationship (the oldest sister, the one who was caught during their eventual escape and never reunited with them, dying shortly after Bergen-Belsen was liberated, was actually almost 30 years old, I've since discovered).  These are fragments in the truest sense of the word, which Isabella wrote on scraps of paper, in her native Hungarian, shortly after she'd arrived in the States in May of 1945, whenever the images and memories forced themselves to the forefront of her mind and she needed to get them out of her system, however temporarily.  Although in the updated volume, this account is told in the present tense, which makes it seem even more gripping than when told in the past tense in this original book.<br /><br />There are also some passages in this original volume that were left out in the updated one, like how Isabella's mother, whose death she never stops mourning or thinking about, had taught her the very important lesson of listening to her heart and the small inner voice within her dictating what was right, as well as describing how her only brother, Philip, temporarily hid as his family, friends, and neighbors were being herded to the cattlecars, but reappeared a moment later, unwilling to desert his family and not share in their fate too.  (Interestingly, I happened upon the ID cards the US Holocaust Memorial Museum's webpage has for Isabella, her mother, her baby sister, and her oldest sister, and discovered that Philip may have been the only surviving brother in a family of five sisters, but wasn't the only brother they ever had; after Potyo [whose real name was Helen] was born, there were apparently born twin boys who died at 8 months of age.)  There's also an interesting switch in the passage talking about how Isabella would put down her shovel and stop digging whenever the Nazi guards looked away in Birnbaumel, since her mother had told her not to aide her enemy; in this book it says \\"I honored her and kept myself alive\\" as opposed to, in the updated version, \\"I honored her and tried to keep myself alive.\\"  Reading the original unchanged passages makes it more emotional.  And though even years later this book haunts me so much that I feel as though I had lost my own sister, nothing compares to the experience of reading it the very first time and receiving the stunning blow that Cipi, the oldest of the four sisters left, was caught and did not survive, having assumed she was with them in America and had survived too, even that maybe they'd found her even decades later.  One feels the same way Isabella does, that had she known she would have tugged at her sleeve or run holding her sister's hand or arm.  This volume also contains the very powerful closing line that is completely left out of the updated volume, \\"Mama, I make this vow to you--I will teach my sons to love life, respect man, and hate only one thing--war.\\"eft, was caught and did not survive, having assumed she was with them in America and had survived too, even that maybe they'd found her even decades later.  One feels the same way Isabella does, that had she known she would have tugged at her sleeve or run holding her sister's hand or arm.  This volume also contains the very powerful closing line that is completely left out of the updated volume, \\"Mama, I make this vow to you--I will teach my sons to love life, respect man, and hate only one thing--war.\\"	2005-08-01
US	32987921	R1FLR5O6TXMSEZ	0451528573	435162028	The Song of Roland (Signet Classics)	Books	4	2	10	N	N	Part poetry, part propaganda	There's no denying this long epic poem was written at a certain place and time, and many of the lines reflect that.  Unlike some other epics of this nature, there doesn't seem to be a lot of equanimity; the French Christians are depicted as the good guys, epitomes of courage and bravery (apart from a few instances of pride, vanity, and hubris, but those are individual characteristics and not attributed to their race or religion), while the Arab Muslims are demonised and made out to be horrible \\"heathens\\" and \\"pagans\\" who deserve to be murdered in really graphic ways, routinely depicted as worshipping Mohammad (which is completely untrue), Apollo, and Tergament, and having their souls carried away by Satan.  Obviously most people in Europe at this time weren't very enlightened about other religions and cultures, and while I agree it's ridiculous to want people of another era and culture to think and behave exactly like people of the 21st century, it is still pretty hard to read a lot of these passages with slander against Islam and the Moors in Spain.  I was actually rooting for them and not the French, and wished it could have given a more balanced view, showing the faults and virtues of both sides, or letting the reader make up his or her own mind about which side is the righteous side, or if neither side is any better or worse than the other.  Particularly chilling is the passage towards the end, after the battle is over, when Charlemagne and his remaining army go through the city destroying all of the mosques and synagogues and force-converting the remaining civilian population.  Still, as uncomfortable as such things are to the average modern reader, it's still a quite good story, with a lot of good descriptions and poetry, and as one-sided as it may be, as well as having some probable exaggerations or falsifications in order to make the French and Charlemagne seem even more victorious and virtuous, it also does a good job of depicting politics and warfare in the later part of the early Middle Ages.  Most of the classic works of Medieval literature most people are most familiar with hail from after the year 1000, but this takes place in the 700s.e later part of the early Middle Ages.  Most of the classic works of Medieval literature most people are most familiar with hail from after the year 1000, but this takes place in the 700s.	2005-07-29
US	32987921	RI6HUBEC9JS0Q	1590080017	786309475	Silent No More: Confronting America's False Images of Islam	Books	3	14	31	N	N	Important topic, somewhat questionable delivery	I completely agree that books of this nature are long overdue, and when read by someone with an open mind and who already wants to learn about Islam, can go a long way towards dispelling media stereotypes and misinformation.  Although apparently some people give books like this negative reviews simply because they already have their minds made up Islam is bad and evil and refuse to believe what moderates have to say and how Islam is not the violent sexist ignorant religion and culture a lot of media pundits in the West spin it as.  That said, there were some flaws in the delivery of this information.<br /><br />A lot of the book was quite good, such as explaining the history of Islam, the reasons behind some of their traditions, holidays, and practices, the basic pillars of the faith, and what Mr. Findley's Muslim friends and colleagues have to say about their own religion and their own specific cultures (since Arabs are far from the only Muslims in the world, and even within the Arab world there are different local cultures that have differences in certain types of rituals or traditions).  However, some of the book did have, as another reviewer noticed, a kind of feel that Mr. Findley wrote those passages with restraint, not saying as much as he could or wanted to, as though someone were indeed looking over his shoulder.<br /><br />I completely agree that modern-day Wahhabis are fanatics and are not acting in accord with what Islam is really all about, but in a number of passages he almost seems to excuse them, saying that while he doesn't condone their rantings or acts of violence, he also can understand where they're coming from since they hate America for supporting Israel.  Mr. Findley, as I have found out, is a very prominent Israel-basher, and therefore a number of passages are vitriolically one-sidedly propagandistic and full of lies, historical inaccuracies, and outright slander against Israel.  He even goes so far as to quote other people with the same anti-Israel agenda, such as the discredited fraud Edward Said.  Apparently in one of his other books he goes into even more length and detail about his hatred for AIPAC and the pro-Israel lobby in America, being violently against both.  And it's hard to believe how he paints groups such as Hamas and Hezbollah as peace-loving groups doing good for their people, just because they run schools and soup kitchens and the like.  Guess what:  Any criminal organisation can make such a claim.  Even the S.S. in Nazi Germany ran orphanages, schools, and social welfare agencies, and I'd hope Mr. Findley doesn't consider them as being a benign social agency or fraternal organisation that gets a bad rap.  This kind of one-sided agenda gets in the way of what he purports to be a serious non-biased study of his findings as he journeyed from being completely ignorant about Islam to now having some of his best friends being Muslims, showing that the majority of Muslims are sitting at home minding their own business and wanting peace, love, and tolerance of others, not making excuses for certain extremist groups who happen to share part of his political ideology.anti-Israel agenda, such as the discredited fraud Edward Said.  Apparently in one of his other books he goes into even more length and detail about his hatred for AIPAC and the pro-Israel lobby in America, being violently against both.  And it's hard to believe how he paints groups such as Hamas and Hezbollah as peace-loving groups doing good for their people, just because they run schools and soup kitchens and the like.  Guess what:  Any criminal organisation can make such a claim.  Even the S.S. in Nazi Germany ran orphanages, schools, and social welfare agencies, and I'd hope Mr. Findley doesn't consider them as being a benign social agency or fraternal organisation that gets a bad rap.  This kind of one-sided agenda gets in the way of what he purports to be a serious non-biased study of his findings as he journeyed from being completely ignorant about Islam to now having some of his best friends being Muslims, showing that the majority of Muslims are sitting at home minding their own business and wanting peace, love, and tolerance of others, not making excuses for certain extremist groups who happen to share part of his political ideology.	2005-07-25
US	32987921	R1282XZ0K8RKN0	0300092431	922957878	Salvaged Pages: Young Writers' Diaries of the Holocaust	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Intense collection	This collection provides 14 generous excerpts from journals of young people during the Shoah; the earliest diaries are from adolescents who got out before or just as things were getting bad, but as we go further on, the diaries get more intense in scope, moving from adolescents who weren't quite sure what was to come, to people who had some inkling but weren't quite sure the rumors were true, to finally young people in ghettos, young people who therefore knew how bad things were, although they didn't yet know what their final grisly fate was to be.  Before each excerpt we also get a generous introduction to the author, his or her surroundings, what generally happened to the Jews of that particular city or town, and the diarist's final fate.  Some of these young people survived, others perished, and still others' fates are unknown, though they are presumed to have perished.  There's also an appendix detailing a number of other young diarists from the Shoah, some information on them, their fates, whether the diary is in a private collection, a museum, if it's been translated into English, or was published for the general public whatever language it's in.  A lot of these young diarists were very literate and intelligent astute young people; it's incredibly sad how some of them died so young and therefore didn't get a chance to possibly become great writers.  My only small complaint is that Poland is a little overrepresented; while it's true that at least half of the murdered came from Poland and that Poland was the nation that lost the greatest percentage of its prewar Jewish population by far, it would have been nice to have some variety in the locations, like maybe include more diaries from Germany, France, and Belgium, or ones from Holland, Hungary, Italy, Austria, Slovakia, and Greece, for example.	2005-07-24
US	32987921	R1UAWWR3Z4G2YT	0679891811	851897587	In My Hands: Memories of a Holocaust Rescuer	Books	5	21	21	N	N	The difference one person can make	Although Poland was a fiercely anti-Semitic country, the nation which lost the highest percentage of its prewar Jewish population, and the nation where at least half of the murdered were from, ironically the largest number of people recognised by Yad Vashem as Righteous Among the Nations also came from Poland.  Irena Gutowna (Irene Gut) is one of those people.  The foundations for her heroic actions were laid in her childhood, when she and her four younger sisters would often rescue injured or abandoned animals and tend them back to life and health, as well as frequently showing kindness to less fortunate people as well.  She was very angry and resentful that her beloved homeland of Poland had to suffer so much under the hands of both the Nazis and the Soviets, and knew she had to do all she could to fight both forces.  At both the beginning and the end of the war, she fought with the Polish partisans in the woods; both times her partisan activities were brought to a grinding halt when she was captured and arrested by the Soviets, but both times she also managed to escape.  After her first escape, she was found by other Russians and taken in her unconscious bruised and battered state to a nearby hospital in what is now the Ukraine, and after her recovery she was put to work as a nurse, having been a student nurse before the war.  After escaping there when the new head doctor tried to attack her, she worked in a small Soviet village for a year, posing as the cousin of a female doctor and being her assistant, before she was able to go back home to Poland, eventually ending up in Ternopol, the city she had been in before she'd escaped the hospital where she was also a prisoner.  After this she began to see more and more signs of anti-Semitism and cruelty around her, and knew these things to be wrong and that she couldn't live with herself if she didn't do something to help.  It began in small gestures, like hiding food under a fence daily, and eventually culminated in smuggling people to the forest and hiding them in the villa where she was housekeeper to a Nazi Major, whom she had also served in a nearby hotel.  She was able to use her high-ranking position to get away with hiding people and smuggling them food, knowing no one would ever suspect her.<br /><br />It's a nice change of perspective to read a memoir from the pov of a rescuer as opposed to a survivor; both suffered and took risks in different ways.  Irena knew what the penalty was for helping Jews but continued to risk her life doing so anyway, even eventually having to become the mistress of the Major for whom she kept house so he would keep her secret, despite how much shame and humiliation that brought this good Catholic girl who had never even had a boyfriend before the war (she had already been raped by the Russians who captured her).  A lot of people also don't know the suffering the Polish people had to go through as well during WWII; they weren't herded into ghettoes and camps, but a lot of them had to go through starvation, fear, terror, and labor camps as well.smuggling people to the forest and hiding them in the villa where she was housekeeper to a Nazi Major, whom she had also served in a nearby hotel.  She was able to use her high-ranking position to get away with hiding people and smuggling them food, knowing no one would ever suspect her. <br /> <br />It's a nice change of perspective to read a memoir from the pov of a rescuer as opposed to a survivor; both suffered and took risks in different ways.  Irena knew what the penalty was for helping Jews but continued to risk her life doing so anyway, even eventually having to become the mistress of the Major for whom she kept house so he would keep her secret, despite how much shame and humiliation that brought this good Catholic girl who had never even had a boyfriend before the war (she had already been raped by the Russians who captured her).  A lot of people also don't know the suffering the Polish people had to go through as well during WWII; they weren't herded into ghettoes and camps, but a lot of them had to go through starvation, fear, terror, and labor camps as well.	2005-07-22
US	32987921	RXS5Y7UYKX4B6	0141305967	294803194	Thanks to My Mother	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Riveting account	This is an incredibly well-writtten and involving account of how young Susie Weksler was able to survive the Shoah because of her mother's determination, love, courage, and hope.  For someone who was as young as Susie was when they were in the Vilnius Ghetto and later the three camps, there are a lot of details about just about everything; these people, places, and events are doubtless so strong and vivid because one is more likely to remember traumatic memories than mundane everyday ordinary things, even at a young age.  One really comes to feel for and to know Susie's many friends and family members, and feels sorrow that so few of them managed to survive.  It even works in the other way; there were many times I just wanted to shake some sense into her older stepsister Dolka, who didn't seem to grasp the seriousness of the situation the way she was acting on numerous occasions, like she didn't want to preserve her own life even if it meant doing things like eating disgusting-looking soup or working in indoor quarters despite how she wasn't feeling very well.  One also gets a vivid picture of how a child as young as Susie was able to survive three camps; there were actually a number of children in the first camp, Kaiserwald, but before long Susie was the only one left.  And she didn't think it was all part of some elaborate game and stay unaware of what was really going on, untouched by the horror around her, like the kid in the unrealistic movie 'Life Is Beautiful'; this is a real portrayal of what life was like for one of the lucky few children who made it through the camps.  She was worked as hard as any adult, be it in the battery factory, standing naked in the snow for hours before starting a death march, or getting beaten by guards.  It's also a change of pace to read about a Lithuanian survivor; most Shoah memoirs are written by people from other places in Europe, so here we have a different perspective and experience, such as being transported from camp to camp by ship, the selection taking place in a graveyard during the liquidation of the ghetto, and a camp where a number of young children were initially allowed entry to.camp by ship, the selection taking place in a graveyard during the liquidation of the ghetto, and a camp where a number of young children were initially allowed entry to.	2005-07-20
US	32987921	R8L7HIXDA3DUJ	0312014503	587847897	The Trial of Ivan the Terrible: State of Israel Vs. John Demjanjuk	Books	5	2	8	N	N	Riveting	This book does an incredible job of telling the story of how one Ivan Demyanyuk, later known as John Demjanjuk, was brought to trial in Israel for being the notorious butcher and gas chamber operator Ivan the Terrible of Treblinka.  Mr. Teicholz covers not only the trial (in superb depth), with the arguments and cross-examinations of people on the side of both the prosecution and the defence, but also the events leading up to Demjanjuk's capture, what he did after Treblinka, a bit about the camp itself and the riot/uprising that took place there in August of 1943, and what became of the small band of survivors after the War.  All of the compelling evidence presented here builds up to the more and more undeniable conclusion, reached by the panel of three judges, that Demjanjuk was indeed Ivan the Terrible of Treblinka, for which he was sentenced to death by hanging.  Unfortunately, this book ends by saying Demjanjuk's appeal is pending, and we know now that somehow this monster won his appeal and evaded the justice he had so sorely deserved, although at least his United States citizenship finally managed to be revoked.  It would be nice if an updated edition could come out with information on the appeal, or, even better, a sequel of sorts covering the appeal and the appalling miscarriage of justice that was the end result.	2005-07-15
US	32987921	R1Q5MNXTCLP5C8	0689832826	559758472	To Life	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Missing that special spark	I quite liked this book, particularly because it's a sequel to 'The Cage,' and there just aren't that many books of this nature out there currently, about what happened to the survivors after the Shoah and how they picked up their lives in the first five or so years afterwards, when they were coming to grips with everything that had happened, searching desperately for relatives, finding out they may have been the only survivors left, rebuilding their lives, and immigrating, be it to America, Israel, Canada, Australia, or someplace else.  The first part of the book is quite good, the part right after Riva and her friend Karola are liberated and eventually make their way back to Lodz, only to find they appear to be the only survivors of their families and no one has come back to look for them yet; after that the two girls move on to the city of Wroclaw, where they eventually have to part ways and move on to different DP camps, though not before each have gotten married to men they met and fell in love with in that rather short time period.  And because of the way in which Grafenort is liberated, the girls are pretty much on their own and have to fend for themselves and make their own way to safety and back to Poland; they didn't want to stick around for another group of Russian soldiers after the ones who liberated them just left, or for personnel such as doctors and relief workers to come, the way it happened in other liberated camps such as Bergen-Belsen.  They really had to rely upon themselves.<br /><br />I think the book could have been more gripping and personally involving and intense had there been more details and character development; it's not that I didn't like the characters and feel for them, just that a lot of these very emotional situations and interactions are related in almost a matter-of-fact way instead of really delving into more deep and complex descriptions.  Maybe that's because most of the chapters are so short; I know this is intended for a younger audience, but I've read a lot of YA and older JA books on this same subject which had a more emotionally harrowing, personal, and memorable feel to them because there were more details and not as much repetition or frequent skipping of blocks of time.  The obvious bravery, courage, love, and hope against hope Riva, her friends, and her family experienced in these years would have been even more obvious and emotionally involving had they just been developed in more depth more often instead of being told in a formulaic brief way.younger audience, but I've read a lot of YA and older JA books on this same subject which had a more emotionally harrowing, personal, and memorable feel to them because there were more details and not as much repetition or frequent skipping of blocks of time.  The obvious bravery, courage, love, and hope against hope Riva, her friends, and her family experienced in these years would have been even more obvious and emotionally involving had they just been developed in more depth more often instead of being told in a formulaic brief way.	2005-07-15
US	32987921	R1B2WFV2DE5LR7	0810945320	484459513	Chaplin: Genius Of The Cinema	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Magnificent	This is a gorgeous volume that's so much more than just a mere coffeetable book.  There are 500 photos, many of them never seen before, from both Chaplin's private life and stills from his many movies, both famous pictures and lesser-known ones.  It goes to show that black and white photography can be just as stunning, if not more so, than color pictures.  And though it's mainly a study of the shorts and features he made over his incredibly long career, offering insights into filming techniques, storylines, cast and crew, and dates, it also has a fair amount of biographical information as well, with chapters on events such as his exile, his politics, his four marriages, and his final years.  One might personally disagree with a negative or positive assessment of a certain film or short (I for example don't find 'A Woman of Paris' to be the groundbreaking fantastic masterpiece many film critics hold it up as), but there's no denying Mr. Vance really did his homework.  And I too find it confusing as to why some people find it a bad thing that Mr. Vance wrote this book and other books on comedic legends from the era through collaborating with the subject's family and friends and why it's supposed to be a bad thing that this is an authorised biography.  Wouldn't you rather get a more objective picture that was created with help from people who actually knew the person instead of the shoddy negative untruthful hackjob that a lot of unauthorised biographies are?	2005-06-24
US	32987921	RH8T0I9JPOU5	074322731X	748343643	I Rose Like a Rocket: The Political Education of Theodore Roosevelt	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Wonderful material	TR has always been one of my two favorite Presidents (the other being JFK), and this book is more than just your typical biography on him.  It takes the unique angle of writing only about TR's life and political career before he became President, starting with his childhood and going through his political development, service in government, personal triumphs and tragedies, stint as a Rough Rider, time as Vice President, and finally having the last chapter be about his famous late-night ride to take the Oath of Office after President McKinley finally succumbed to his gunshot wound.  We learn about how his experiences during this part of his life formed his political philosophy and development, making this incredible human being into the astute incredible President and politician he became over time.  Mr. Grondahl really knows how to do his research and how to make it interesting and relevant instead of just some dry recounting of facts, names, and dates.  It was also an added bonus how the author lives in the same area as I do.	2005-05-29
US	32987921	R36Y3QYD346YUB	0756605083	259131202	Cinema Year by Year 1894-2004	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Treasure trove	This volume starts at the very beginning, 1894, and progresses through to 2004.  As the years go on and films become more advanced and common, we get more pages devoted to each year, with lots of great pictures and movie posters along the way.  It's pointed out that the little articles on each film or subject aren't actual news clippings from back then, but they did try to write them as though they could have been.  Naturally, even given the length of such a volume, there were some things that were left out, but there's also a lot more that isn't left out, and this is after all just meant to be a year-by-year review with little news clipping-like pieces to accompany the films and events of each year, not a hugely in-depth account of each and every single film and even of every single year in cinema history.  The only slight problem I have with it is that there are some urban legends reported as fact, such as Walter Matthau's birth name having been Matuschanskyayasky, Buster Keaton getting his nickname from Harry Houdini (when is this urban legend going to die already!?), and a certain sordid bit of misinformation about the murder of Ramon Novarro, which was actually made up by Kenneth Anger in his notoriously false 'Hollywood Babylon.'  A bit pricey, but worth every penny.	2005-05-29
US	32987921	R2U2RKQ5WLDY4J	0306806665	441096069	Groucho And Me	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Very funny fast read	Even though, as others have mentioned, this isn't really a true autobiography per se, it's a very involving, fast, funny read.  There are a lot of personal reflections, anecdotes, and the wonderful chapters about the Marx family when their boys were young and then their early vaudeville days, but there are a lot of seemingly important things left out; if you want to get a story told in a more linear format and with more concise personal information, you'd be better-served reading a more serious scholarly biography (though you probably won't laugh as much with that kind of book).  The autobiographical accounts that do appear are priceless though; to most people, the people, events, and culture of New York in the late 19th century and early 20th century and on the vaudeville circuit in America is a foreign long-vanished world, a world where a dollar was still a lot of money and there were still neighborhood tailors and pants-pressers, where cars were positively dirt-cheap in comparison to how much they cost today.  More celebrity autobiographies should be like this, fun and engaging and witty, not taking oneself too seriously or acting like this is a strictly factual account of one's life and like everything described happened exactly in the way it's described and with those exact words spoken.  The picture section was also very nice.  The only small complaint I have about it is that, being written in 1959, some of the references to people and things are a little dated and don't mean anything to or ring any bells for people who weren't around back then.	2005-05-17
US	32987921	R1O6DXPETDJT6P	0805209808	293683874	A Bintel Brief: Sixty Years of Letters from the Lower East Side to the Jewish Daily Forward	Books	4	7	12	N	N	Nice look back at a bygone world, but a bit dated	Overall, this is a fond look back at some of the letters sent to and answered by the editor of the Yiddish-language daily 'Forverts,' dating from the first letters in the Aughts and going till what was the present day at the time this volume was first published, the Sixties.  We see over time how attitudes (social, cultural, religious, political, personal, marital) change, and watch as peoples' primary concerns go from runaway husbands, helping relatives to immigrate, American friends laughing at one's intended spouse for being such a greenhorn, unions, having trouble finding work, not earning enough money, and even some seemingly petty problems, like a husband refusing to shave off his beard, which means that he has a harder time finding work and earning money, to more modern concerns like interdating, intermarriage, having an Xmas tree in the house (even though both spouses are Jewish!), having to conceal one's religious identity at work, a young man being upset his peers aren't as religious or in tune with the spirit of the old country as his older relatives are, and a wife who persuaded her husband to buy her a television and now does almost nothing but watch tv.<br /><br />I loved the letters and the responses to them, though as should be expected some of the responses are a bit dated.  For example, a mother writes because one of her sons has stopped eating meat, which really concerns her and her husband, and the boy wouldn't even eat meat when they took him to a restaurant to show him that \\"everyone\\" eats meat.  The editor advised them to take the boy to a psychiatrist to \\"cure\\" him of being a vegetarian, although he also ran a response to his response from a member of a national Jewish vegetarian group, pointing out how more and more people were becoming vegetarians and that it doesn't imply there's anything wrong with one or that it makes one less healthy.  It's stunning to realise that in 1945 vegetarians were considered practically mentally ill, as well as some of the other responses which were products of their time.  However, some of the editorial comments to the letters and responses are dated as well and could use a revised, more modern edition.  For example, in the introduction it's pointed out that many of these immigrants of the early 20th century had a lot in common with the hippies and freethinkers \\"of today,\\" what with their philosophy of free love and radical politics.  That \\"of today\\" comment dates this edition right off of the bat.  There are also some editorial comments about letters concerning interdating and intermarriage (including one on interracial interfaith dating) clearly grounded in the era in which this volume was published; I'm also very much against it, but a lot has changed since the Sixties, and most people intermarry and interdate for different reasons than they did back then, as well as how it's no longer considered that taboo, drastic, and socially unacceptable.  Another example is how the editor reflects on one letter about a young woman who is upsetting her family because she's pretending to be a Christian at her workplace, pointing out that \\"even today\\" many Jews, including his own sister, have to do that, that his sister would wear a cross necklace to work as part of that charade.  Nowadays it's quite illegal to even inquire into a prospective employee's religious background, and an employer would be sued for firing or refusing to hire someone who wasn't Christian!  Still, all in all, it's a very enjoyable book and a great look back at a bygone era in American history, though it would be nice if it were reissued with more modern relevant editorial commentary.as some of the other responses which were products of their time.  However, some of the editorial comments to the letters and responses are dated as well and could use a revised, more modern edition.  For example, in the introduction it's pointed out that many of these immigrants of the early 20th century had a lot in common with the hippies and freethinkers \\"of today,\\" what with their philosophy of free love and radical politics.  That \\"of today\\" comment dates this edition right off of the bat.  There are also some editorial comments about letters concerning interdating and intermarriage (including one on interracial interfaith dating) clearly grounded in the era in which this volume was published; I'm also very much against it, but a lot has changed since the Sixties, and most people intermarry and interdate for different reasons than they did back then, as well as how it's no longer considered that taboo, drastic, and socially unacceptable.  Another example is how the editor reflects on one letter about a young woman who is upsetting her family because she's pretending to be a Christian at her workplace, pointing out that \\"even today\\" many Jews, including his own sister, have to do that, that his sister would wear a cross necklace to work as part of that charade.  Nowadays it's quite illegal to even inquire into a prospective employee's religious background, and an employer would be sued for firing or refusing to hire someone who wasn't Christian!  Still, all in all, it's a very enjoyable book and a great look back at a bygone era in American history, though it would be nice if it were reissued with more modern relevant editorial commentary.	2005-05-17
US	32987921	RS9HY2KIWXVA9	0385425767	977108653	Schoolgirls: Young Women, Self Esteem, and the Confidence Gap	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Heartbreaking	It's heartbreaking to read this book and realise that things haven't much changed in the decade since it's been published, and how too many young women in America act, think, and believe, not because it's their integral nature but rather because they've been pushed to it by messages from the media, Hollywood, teachers, parents, male classmates.  The girls Ms. Orenstein interviewed are all around my age (I was also in seventh grade during the 1992-93 schoolyear), so it was easy to relate to them and what they were going through, what things were like when they were in junior high and sixth grade.  The girls at Weston, the largely white school, had problems with teachers calling on boys who hogged and demanded attention, to the exclusion of girls in the class, body image, sexual harassment, teachers who had a double standard when it came to boys and girls (boys who call out answers before being called on or who loudly whine to be called on are rewarded with attention, while girls are ridiculed if they have a wrong answer or not called on at all; there was also the teacher who called a boy disruptive, with a friendly laugh, while making the same remark to a female student in a very cold negative disparaging voice), parents who reinforce this double standard, the sexual double standard, and messages that you have to fit in and be perfect.  These girls even pretended to be afraid of spiders so that boys would think they were feminine and desirable as girlfriends, not pariahs who wouldn't run screaming from a spider but instead act like a boy and ask to hold it because it looks so neat.  It's sad to read that in this day and age many young women think that a woman isn't allowed to be assertive, pushy, or aggressive, or that a girl can't be a lawyer because she's too \\"cute.\\"  The girls at Audobon, the mostly urban minority school, also had those problems, but they were submerged by more pressing problems of poverty, gangs, street violence, drugs, falling-apart families, crime, and teachers who were past the point of caring or treating students with respect.  The book wraps up with a look into a gender-fair class back at Weston, where the tables are turned and both sexes learn about women and other minorities, where boys sometimes have to make speeches from the pov of famous women, the type of class there would be everywhere if women were the gender that had traditionally held power in America.<br /><br />Apparently some people didn't like this book because it brings to light what goes on at many schools, how boys treat girls and misuse power, how they get away with a lot of bad things.  It's the same reason why a lot of the boys in the gender-fair classroom initially didn't like the class, because they felt excluded and discriminated against.  It must hurt them to have their traditional position of male authority challenged and exposed for what it really is.  These boys had no problem with being in classrooms that taught mostly about famous men, yet when they had to learn about more women than men, they took it personally and got offended.  Presenting a fact, even if it's a negative unflattering fact, is not the same as \\"bashing.\\"ime, and teachers who were past the point of caring or treating students with respect.  The book wraps up with a look into a gender-fair class back at Weston, where the tables are turned and both sexes learn about women and other minorities, where boys sometimes have to make speeches from the pov of famous women, the type of class there would be everywhere if women were the gender that had traditionally held power in America. <br /> <br />Apparently some people didn't like this book because it brings to light what goes on at many schools, how boys treat girls and misuse power, how they get away with a lot of bad things.  It's the same reason why a lot of the boys in the gender-fair classroom initially didn't like the class, because they felt excluded and discriminated against.  It must hurt them to have their traditional position of male authority challenged and exposed for what it really is.  These boys had no problem with being in classrooms that taught mostly about famous men, yet when they had to learn about more women than men, they took it personally and got offended.  Presenting a fact, even if it's a negative unflattering fact, is not the same as \\"bashing.\\"	2005-05-08
US	32987921	R2ZPK9NEQ1CLG5	0743245148	216844633	Our Mothers' War: American Women at Home and at the Front During World War II	Books	5	24	29	N	N	Great personal in-depth look	This isn't meant to be some exhaustive encyclopedia, but it's nevertheless a very solid thorough detailed account of what the women of the WWII generation went through, in many facets and fields.  Besides just writing about the women in the military, in the factories, on the general homefront, and in the Japanese-American internment camps, there is also interesting insightful information on areas little covered, such as the women who worked at or who had husbands working at Los Alamos, prostitutes, women in right-wing pro-Fascist groups agitating against the American government, and spies.  It's stunning to read about all the women of my grandmothers' generation had to struggle against to be accepted into the military, in factories, as professionals, in any capacity in fact besides that of wife, mother, sister, and girlfriend.  Particularly horrifying was the section on the Victory Girls; the sexual double standard sent women (many of them proven innocent) suspected of passing VD to soldiers to jail, while giving these soldiers no punishment for cavorting with prostitutes and giving them the best care instead of forcing them to languish in dank unhygienic jail cells without medical attention.  Blame the women and treat the men as innocent victims.  Also shocking in modern times is how women believed to be lesbians in the military were treated, like they had a mental disorder and were deranged unnatural deviants, as well as how many women who had loyally punctually worked in the factories were handed their discharge slips on the day the boys came home.  Still, even restrained by the double standard and beliefs of the era, these women had tasted freedom and greater possibilities, and thanks to everything they did, their knowledge of greater possibilities, they raised daughters who would help to bring about the womens' liberation movement in the next generation, knowing they could never go back to the limited world and possibilities that had existed prior to WWII.	2005-03-27
US	32987921	R1I8PKAJF9E50M	1587155257	188030114	Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse by Vicente Blasco Ibez, Fiction, Literary	Books	5	14	18	N	N	WOW!	I was spurred to read this book because the 1921 film adaptation is so great; usually I read the book before seeing the movie based on it, if I see the movie based on a book at all.  The book is even better than the already phenomenal film; since the film is only about two hours long, it obviously couldn't fit in everything that happens in the book, and there were some things invented, left out, or cut and pasted together (in a respectful tasteful way though).  The book gives an even more complete and complex picture of the Desnoyers family and their circle of friends, like having a lot more details about their life in Argentina before Julio, the main character, his sister Chichi, and their cousins the von Hartrotts were born, as well as having more details about their life back in Europe when they returned there shortly before WWI broke out.  Having the powerful images from the film in my head made the characters, plotline, and descriptions in the book even more powerful.  There were also some things that the book made clearer than the film had, although personally I felt that the ending line of the book wasn't as powerful or effective as the final intertitles of the movie.  Still, it's a great book, powerful historical fiction about WWI and the years leading up to it.  My only gripe is that this translation is a bit dated, such as in certain words or turns of phrase that now have different connotations or have fallen into such disusage that the modern reader would have to look them up.  It doesn't change the powerful content one iota, but it would still be nice to have an updated translation with more modern language and some explanatory footnotes where needed.	2005-03-20
US	32987921	R3UNHP1GMFF1IZ	0964716909	282952128	Daughters of Another Path: Experiences of American Women Choosing Islam	Books	4	34	39	N	N	Thoughtful and valuable with minor flaws	I'm not Muslim myself, but I have long had a lot of love, respect, and admiration for Islam and Muslims (growing up in the Eighties and early Nineties, my family were even friends with a wonderful Iranian family who had fled the Revolution).  It answers a lot of questions and concerns of not only the loved ones of women who have become Muslims but also of people who just would like to know more about Islam, particularly modern womens' role in it and why so many American women are choosing to become Muslims.  I'd like to consider myself pretty knowledgeable about the faith despite not being a member, but I too ended up learning things I hadn't known about before.  It's clear that the women who responded to the survey sent out by Mrs. Anway and her daughter Jodi are very happy in Islam, feel it empowers them instead of, as the media would have people believe, oppresses or represses them, have wonderful marriages (although there were a few respondents who reported having had bad marriages, it was clear that that was the fault of the \\"men\\" they had had the misfortune of marrying, not because of the nature of Islam itself), feel very in tune with spiritual matters, and in many cases are happier about themselves and their lives since choosing Islam.  It saddens and upsets me to see reviewers giving this book low ratings not because of the content but because they apparently dislike Islam anyway and seem to not believe anything positive about it.  Are all of these women talking effusively about how they feel more liberated in hijab than in the type of clothing most American women wear, clothing which causes them to be looked at as a sex object and not a person, how well their husbands treat them, how warmly their in-laws welcomed them, how many rights women have under Islam, just brainwashed liars?  That insults everyone's intelligence to claim that this book isn't telling the \\"truth.\\"  The truth is what these women experience and have chosen to share, and if that goes against what you believe about Islam, I guess nothing can convince you that, despite what the media portrays and how certain men in certain cultures have kept their women illiterate to keep them from reading the Koran and learning how many rights women really do have under Islam, Islam really is a religion of love, moderation, and respect and rights for women.<br /><br />As others have mentioned, there is a cut and paste feel to the text; it would have been even better had there been more scholarly information on Islam, like in-depth explanations of the marriage rituals, the pilgrimage to Mecca (which women btw ARE allowed on, despite the allegations of another reviewer), giving to charity, the various holidays, what's in the various sections of the Koran, types of Muslim schools in the United States, and if it's usual to have a little ceremony or celebration after taking shahada (becoming a Muslim), and if so, what the celebration consists of.  And as others have pointed out, a lot of the women surveyed seemed to have become Muslim primarily because of their husbands, or the men who later became their husbands.  As a Jew by Choice myself, I share that complaint when reading books about conversion to Judaism; despite popular perception, a lot of people convert to another religion (Islam, Judaism, Christianity, Hinduism, etc.) for themselves, while single, finishing the process while still single, not marrying for some time afterwards or even ever.  Conversion is always stimulated by much more than a romantic relationship.inst what you believe about Islam, I guess nothing can convince you that, despite what the media portrays and how certain men in certain cultures have kept their women illiterate to keep them from reading the Koran and learning how many rights women really do have under Islam, Islam really is a religion of love, moderation, and respect and rights for women.   <br /> <br />As others have mentioned, there is a cut and paste feel to the text; it would have been even better had there been more scholarly information on Islam, like in-depth explanations of the marriage rituals, the pilgrimage to Mecca (which women btw ARE allowed on, despite the allegations of another reviewer), giving to charity, the various holidays, what's in the various sections of the Koran, types of Muslim schools in the United States, and if it's usual to have a little ceremony or celebration after taking shahada (becoming a Muslim), and if so, what the celebration consists of.  And as others have pointed out, a lot of the women surveyed seemed to have become Muslim primarily because of their husbands, or the men who later became their husbands.  As a Jew by Choice myself, I share that complaint when reading books about conversion to Judaism; despite popular perception, a lot of people convert to another religion (Islam, Judaism, Christianity, Hinduism, etc.) for themselves, while single, finishing the process while still single, not marrying for some time afterwards or even ever.  Conversion is always stimulated by much more than a romantic relationship.	2005-03-08
US	32987921	ROU42NPN3V4BH	0816637814	852426575	Louise Brooks: A Biography	Books	5	18	19	N	N	A true original	Louise Brooks was never as famous in her day as other female actors like Colleen Moore and Clara Bow, and in fact most people were more familiar with her face than with her films, but she just had that special something that enabled her to stand the test of time, not only as a cult figure (as when she had a revival in the Fifties and again in the Eighties) but also as a very talented actor in her own right, cult figure or not.  And today a lot of female actors who were very famous in her era, like Colleen Moore and the Talmadge sisters, are all but forgotten, while Louise lives on.  Mr. Paris, in telling the story of Louise's life, explains just what about her has made her live on long after many other performers of her era have been forgotten by time and the average person off the street.  I also particularly liked the chapter \\"Sound and Fury,\\" with a lot of in-depth information on the coming of sound, and just how many people really were affected by the transition from silent to noise, not just the actors.  Title-card writers and musicians were some of the other people in the business affected by it; their jobs were more or less made obsolete altogether.<br /><br />This was not a woman who was interested in making friends and influencing people, and was quite capable of venomously turning on friends and even relatives to whom she'd formerly felt very close and affectionate.  You didn't want to get on her bad side.  She also had always wanted to be known as a professional dancer, not an actor, and when she had been dragged into motion pictures, she made what many people would consider some foolish decisions, decisions that sometimes cost her important roles that might have advanced her career.  Indeed, some of the decisions she made, seemingly based on wanting to get even with the powers that be, put some serious nails in the coffin of her career, though she also made some incredibly risky decisions that in the long run landed her her cult status and lasting appeal (making the three movies abroad for G.W. Pabst, movies which initially bombed and were devastatingly reviewed).  Because she refused to play nice and brown-nose the powers that be, she never amounted to much in the talking pictures she made in the Thirties, but her life after she quit motion pictures was just as fascinating.  And isn't it preferable to be remembered best for the top-quality pictures you made as opposed to being remembered as and made fun of for having continued to act in increasingly bad movies after you've already become a has-been who won't get the message and retire gracefully?eal (making the three movies abroad for G.W. Pabst, movies which initially bombed and were devastatingly reviewed).  Because she refused to play nice and brown-nose the powers that be, she never amounted to much in the talking pictures she made in the Thirties, but her life after she quit motion pictures was just as fascinating.  And isn't it preferable to be remembered best for the top-quality pictures you made as opposed to being remembered as and made fun of for having continued to act in increasingly bad movies after you've already become a has-been who won't get the message and retire gracefully?	2005-03-01
US	32987921	R33DQNYQIL3F7L	0689848986	660188075	My Bridges of Hope	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Great sequel	This is one of the best sequels to a Shoah memoir I've read yet.  Too many such sequels fall into the trap of simply recounting what happened next and aren't as compelling as the first book because there's no constant suspense and wondering what's going to happen next, which of these people being spoken about survived and who perished.  In this sequel, though, there are a lot of interesting details about what happened next, such as Elli's involvement in the Bricha, the refugee house she liked to visit and hang out at, her work at a childrens' summer camp in the mountains, her training to become a teacher, and the long hard road she and her mother went through on their way from escaping from their home town to America before it was too late and the Iron Curtain closed permanently.  It was also nice that each chapter was prefaced with the date or dates during which it transpired, so you had a real timeframe of things.  The only minor complaint I have is about the languages used; in this book, the Friedmanns' town has returned to Czechoslovakian control and is in what is now the free nation of Slovakia, so they speak Slovakian, though in the first book, when they were in Hungarian hands, they seemed to be native speakers of Hungarian, and in the section of this book where Elli and her mother are being cross-examined when they're sneaking over the border with a transport of real Hungarians, Elli says they can make it, since they speak Hungarian as well as natives.  I can't find any mention in the first book about the Friedmanns being Slovakians or speaking that language like their native tongue, but overall, apart from that minor unexplained detail, it's a really good sequel.	2005-01-06
US	32987921	R1JI8VKOT42XM4	0571211143	197199449	Dark Lover: The Life and Death of Rudolph Valentino	Books	5	14	15	N	N	What a celebrity biography should be	This is everything a good celebrity biography should be--scholarly, thoroughly researched, entertaining, insightful, giving detailed profiles of people who were very important in the star's life instead of just focusing on the subject himself, and giving off the genuine feel that the writer really has respect for her subject.  Too many celebrity biographies, sadly, are little more than tabloids, reporting every bit of gossip as undisputed fact, even if there's zero evidence, repeating the same old unverified or exaggerated anecdotes, and giving credence to misinformation provided by questionable sources, many of whom have some sort of agenda.  Ms. Leider's book is nothing like the type of sleaze churned out by people such as Geoffrey Giuliano and the late Albert Goldman.  It's easy to fall into a trap of writing a sensationalised account when you're dealing with a star about whom there's been so much misinformation, gossip, and outright slander for so many decades, but she rises above that and reports only the truth (though of course people who have long cherished and believed in said gossip aren't going to be too happy their longtime fantasies are discredited).<br /><br />There were a couple of tidbits in this book I found to be a little too much information, but even those things were presented in a tasteful and respectful way, not just put in there to be to shocking or sensational.  There were also a lot of great pictures, and a LOT of sources listed in the back to go to for additional information (books, magazine articles, websites, etc.).  Having heard that this book was very positively and heartily endorsed at the annual memorial service on Valentino's Jarhzeit (death anniversary), I was sold on reading it.  And since this book has been written, happily, 'Beyond the Rocks' is no longer a lost film as it's reported in these pages.  It's the perfect combination of scholarly research, lively storytelling, and genuine respect and love for the biographer's subject.t.	2005-01-06
US	32987921	R2W9M6YXJ83WF5	0141002247	688425841	In My Brother's Image: Twin Brothers Separated by Faith after the Holocaust	Books	5	12	15	N	N	I've met the author!	I remember reading about this real-life story a number of years before this book was actually published; I still have the clipped article from the Boston Globe in one of my scrapbooks.  Then, when I was a student at the University of Massachusetts in Amherst, Mr. Pogany came to our Hillel one Friday night and after services and dinner read from his book and spoke to us about the story behind it.  Having met the author makes reading a book even better!<br /><br />I've very interested in what befell Hungarian Jewry during WWII, possibly because it's so painful and haunting to realise that they were the last nation to be invaded by the Nazis, the final Jewish community in Europe still pretty much fully intact, but for the men who had been drafted into labour battalions or sent off to work camps several years earlier.  It's an even more interesting and unique story because the family became Catholics shortly after WWI ended, and they were very devout, so much so that the author's uncle Gyuri eventually became a priest, and his father, Mikl&oacute;s, had seriously contemplated becoming one too.  Because of a painful health condition, Gyuri got permission to recover his health in Italy, which was a stroke of luck, since he got out before things really began getting worse and worse, even before the arrival of the Nazis.  Though the twins' mother was deported and murdered, the rest of the family did not live in the small town she did, and because they were in Budapest did not suffer the fate of the other Hungarian Jews in smaller towns and cities, who were packed into ghettos and then deported.  The Budapest Ghetto wasn't erected until very late in the War, and when Mikl&oacute;s and his wife Muci (also a distant cousin of his) were finally deported, they were \\"only\\" taken to Bergen-Belsen as opposed to one of the death camps in Poland like the majority of their Hungarian co-religionists had been.<br /><br />Because he was tucked away safely in Italy, a place which only lost about 19% of its prewar Jewish population, in the care of the holy mystic Padre Pio, Gyuri was not subject to anything like his twin brother and the rest of their family were.  He could never understand why his beloved twin had lost faith in Catholicism and Christianity, how he could go back to Judaism, the religion they'd left as small boys and had never even really been very much of a part of in their early years before they all converted.  Many people both then and now have made apologies for the collaboration, either active or through silent complicity, of ordinary citizens in allowing the Shoah to take place, much like Gyuri did, but Mikl&oacute;s and Muci had seen firsthand what had happened to them.  Despite nearly thirty years of being a good Catholic, he was not protected from even the \\"good\\" labour brigade for converts.  In the eyes of the Nazis and ordinary Hungarians, his family were still Jewish.  The local parish priest arranged for their mother Gabriella to be taken from the ghetto to his church every day to hear Mass before she was deported, but he still didn't try to hide her or protect her from deportation.  This book explores the complex relationship between not only the brothers who were separated by faith but also how the Church failed to protect its members, all members, and to speak out against what was going on, and how something of such a large scale could never have happened without the kind of hatred and collaboration from the common folk that the Poganies saw breaking through the surface after the Nazis and Hungarian fascists came to power.% of its prewar Jewish population, in the care of the holy mystic Padre Pio, Gyuri was not subject to anything like his twin brother and the rest of their family were.  He could never understand why his beloved twin had lost faith in Catholicism and Christianity, how he could go back to Judaism, the religion they'd left as small boys and had never even really been very much of a part of in their early years before they all converted.  Many people both then and now have made apologies for the collaboration, either active or through silent complicity, of ordinary citizens in allowing the Shoah to take place, much like Gyuri did, but Mikls and Muci had seen firsthand what had happened to them.  Despite nearly thirty years of being a good Catholic, he was not protected from even the \\"good\\" labour brigade for converts.  In the eyes of the Nazis and ordinary Hungarians, his family were still Jewish.  The local parish priest arranged for their mother Gabriella to be taken from the ghetto to his church every day to hear Mass before she was deported, but he still didn't try to hide her or protect her from deportation.  This book explores the complex relationship between not only the brothers who were separated by faith but also how the Church failed to protect its members, all members, and to speak out against what was going on, and how something of such a large scale could never have happened without the kind of hatred and collaboration from the common folk that the Poganies saw breaking through the surface after the Nazis and Hungarian fascists came to power.	2005-01-04
US	32987921	RDYE8P0DQU1J6	0140442162	33453699	Vita Nuova, La (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	8	10	N	N	Sweet unrequited first love	This is a beautiful collection of poetry inspired by Beatrice, the great love of Dante's life, even though she barely even knew him and they were never together romantically, not even as childhood sweethearts.  It's also mixed in with autobiographical remembrances.  Dante and Beatrice first happened to see one another when they were nine and eight years old, respectively, and didn't cross paths again for nine more years, but Dante always remembered how stunningly beautiful this girl was.  Every single time he saw this woman from their second meeting on (in church, on the street, by his house, wherever else she was) he was even more and more inflamed by love for this beautiful otherworldly creature, and so began writing the poetry which comprises much of this slim but poignant volume.  Dante was so madly in love that he prefaced each poem or sonnet by explaining in detail what every bit of them meant, if it's broken down into sections by theme, everything that would let him gush on and on about his beloved one even more.  One of the sonnets tells about a terrifying dream/premonition Dante had about a year before Beatrice died on 8 June 1290, in the prime of her life, a dream which was so strong, real, and terrifying that he was actually brought to tears and asked by one of Beatrice's friends whatever the matter was with him.  He said he'd had a horrifying vision that his lady had died, but didn't provide her name and so let Beatrice's friend believe it was some other woman he was madly passionately head over heels in love with.  Shortly after Beatrice really did die, one of her brothers visited Dante asking him to write some poetry for a certain death that recently occurred.  The man has disguised himself and not told Dante the details about the death in question, but he knows that this is one of Beatrice's five brothers, and that Beatrice is the dead person in question whom he's being asked to immortalise in poetry.  Because he doesn't want anyone to get the wrong impression about his feelings for Beatrice, Dante goes through three poems in the quest for creating just the right one.<br /><br />After the sad untimely death of Beatrice, Dante was visited by another beautiful woman who cheered him up and inspired him to write poetry again, this time for her and not for Beatrice, but very soon after this occurs he feels upset and ashamed of himself because he let another woman be his muse.  The last chapter of this book contains the genesis of the idea that would eventually lead to the writing of Dante's longest and most greatest work, the Divine Comedy.  Dante wanted to write a much much longer poem celebrating his great love for her and how beautiful Beatrice was, immortalising her for all time even though they were never husband and wife, lovers, or even sweethearts.  It's true there's a fine line between love and obsession, but in this case whichever of the two it might have been doesn't matter, since the end result was a beautiful timeless work of art.mpression about his feelings for Beatrice, Dante goes through three poems in the quest for creating just the right one. <br /> <br />After the sad untimely death of Beatrice, Dante was visited by another beautiful woman who cheered him up and inspired him to write poetry again, this time for her and not for Beatrice, but very soon after this occurs he feels upset and ashamed of himself because he let another woman be his muse.  The last chapter of this book contains the genesis of the idea that would eventually lead to the writing of Dante's longest and most greatest work, the Divine Comedy.  Dante wanted to write a much much longer poem celebrating his great love for her and how beautiful Beatrice was, immortalising her for all time even though they were never husband and wife, lovers, or even sweethearts.  It's true there's a fine line between love and obsession, but in this case whichever of the two it might have been doesn't matter, since the end result was a beautiful timeless work of art.	2005-01-03
US	32987921	RVN9P42N3PC0J	0807070718	784776953	Rena's Promise:  A Story of Sisters in Auschwitz	Books	5	89	96	N	N	Raw and moving	This was a very involving and detailed book; even though the content can be too much for some people, I really like how many specific details were given about what happened every day, instead of, like some other Shoah memoirs, just skipping between the most important events during the author's incarceration, or not giving enough details about daily life.  I've read some pretty detailed Shoah memoirs, but this one by far has been the most intricately detailed one, complete with footnotes elaborating even further on the event or date being described.  Rena and Danka were also prisoners in the camp from practically the very beginning, among the first civilian transports, as opposed to how there were originally only male political prisoners there.  These incredible sisters had some incredible strokes of luck the way they escaped nearly certain death so many times, like when they just walked away from the roll call taking place before Mengele was to begin medical experiments or when Rena evaded detection at several roll calls after she stole potatoes in the last camp they were in.  I would have liked some extra chapters on how they got by after the liberation too, but the afterword sufficed, telling us the basics about what happened to them and their friend Dina, as well as the fates of the various other people we met throughout the book, like the male prisoners who helped to save them at various points, or the fate of their other relatives and friends.  I also liked how the story was told in nonlinear perspective at the beginning (i.e., in different voices and at different times).  It was also surprising to read at the beginning that Rena had had her tattoo surgically removed and kept it in a jar of formaldehyde; I've only heard of a handful of survivors who elected to have their tattoos removed.	2005-01-03
US	32987921	R87B3SHTYDNB	0689823959	54451472	I Have Lived A Thousand Years: Growing Up In The Holocaust	Books	5	155	162	N	N	Very involving and compelling read	If you've read a lot of books about the Shoah, sometimes it seems like they all start to sound the same, only with different names and locations, but most good memorable books and memoirs on the subject have things setting them apart.  This book, for example, is the only one I can remember having read so far where the subject (Elli) went through the camps with her mother; all of the other books I've read so far have been about siblings or friends or cousins sticking together in the camps.  Sadly, there aren't more books about the mother-daughter relationship in the camps because most of the girls who went there with their mothers were immediately separated from them.<br /><br />Besides having the little-represented angle of how a mother and daughter supported and loved one another in the camps (particularly after Elli's mother has her injury), there are also other things in here making it a unique story.  The family in this book is also smaller than most of the other families in books about the Shoah, with only Elli, her brother, their parents, and their aunt, as opposed to large families with several sisters or brothers.  There are also many details about everything that happened to them in the various places they were in, instead of just giving vague descriptions of what they went through or just focusing on how they stuck together instead of dwelling on the specifics of what they went through.  It's definite that Elli and her mother had their chances for survival improved because they were selected for the transport to the factory in Augsburg, where they got better food and treatment as opposed to being forced to do the type of things they did in Plaszow.  However, since there are so many horrific details and specifics given, this wouldn't be the type of book for a younger reader, but rather a mature teenager.  And I love books written in the present tense; it draws you right in and makes the action even more compelling, wondering what's going to happen next.  Reading or writing in the past tense just doesn't have that same deep emotional impact.Reading or writing in the past tense just doesn't have that same deep emotional impact.	2005-01-02
US	32987921	RKCWNU29RMGIZ	0025226207	153539307	Cassell's Standard French Dictionary, Thumb-indexed	Books	3	10	13	N	N	My edition is even older!	The edition I have of this particular Cassell's dictionary is even older than the outdated one for sale here; it was originally my father's book, and it was old even when he was using it in college, because the book (which is now missing its spine and is falling apart) was published in 1910, mentioning in the forward that it's been updated to include words relating to \\"new\\" innovations such as bicycling, motoring, and aviation.  At least the more modern version here has words such as television and radio, even if it doesn't include words such as microwave and internet.  It's a fine volume if you're just interested in deciphering the untranslated French passages in old books from the era when everyone spoke French as a second language, or if you're just studying the language casually, but if you're a serious student of the language you'll want a much more modern dictionary, which contains words which have been coined or ones relating to new inventions and innovations which have come along since the Seventies.  (Once while looking through my copy's pages, I saw somewhere \\"to Jew someone down,\\" as well as other phrases and words which are now highly outdated and just plain racist and offensive.)  Still, even for being as old as it is, whichever edition you're using, it gets the job done for basic translations, and my edition does have some very nice appendices, such as one giving the French and English names of various geographical features and nations (some of which no longer exist, like Prussia and Upper Volta) and another giving a long list of various names in their English and French equivalents, most of them being from mythology, antiquity, literature, and times before the modern era.	2005-01-02
US	32987921	R1J11ACVOT5L9A	0060198400	917355240	The Burning Tigris: The Armenian Genocide and America's Response	Books	5	44	48	N	N	Biting expos&eacute;	This is a great book about a subject on which there are still too few books to date.  It also doesn't just dwell on the massacres and the aftermath, since the subtitle is 'The Armenian Genocide and America's Response.'  We learn about how very involved many Americans (particularly prominent New Englanders) were in helping the Armenians during the massacres of 1894-97, 1909-10, the major Genocide of 1915, and the massacres which happened afterwards, into the early Twenties.  We learn about the major players who were engaged in charity and relief work, like Clara Barton and Alice Stone Blackwell (who was the daughter of Lucy Stone, one of my heroes), and get great background information on their social circles and what led them to become involved in this type of work.  Too many people don't know that there were major horrific massacres well before the 1915 Genocide, nor the extent to which Americans were involved in helping the survivors.  I also found out that there were actually trials held for the perpetrators, but very few got sentenced to death or thrown into prison, and of the few who were punished, nearly all of them were sprung from prison due to the political situation and how Turkey was viewed as a desirable ally to have against the Russians.  Practically all of the perpetrators escaped justice, though at least the top perpetrators (in particular Pashas Enver, Talaat, and Jemal) were later killed by Armenians in revenge.  It makes me seethe to read about how the Turks to this day callously deny what their government did, calling well-documented historical evidence from both sides \\"allegations\\" and \\"nationalistic propaganda.\\"  It's sickening to discover how they've successfully threatened and blackmailed some nations into voting against measures that would recognise the events of 1915 as the genocide it truly was.  It's also sad to realise that, as compared with the huge public outcry and interest back then (there were even movies made about the Genocide), most people today don't even know nor care about what went down.  Hopefully this book will be yet another nail in the coffin of those who deny genocide.st people today don't even know nor care about what went down.  Hopefully this book will be yet another nail in the coffin of those who deny genocide.	2004-11-09
US	32987921	R1S0GBA5UWG17Z	0671735594	669106984	Jay's Journal	Books	4	17	20	N	N	Only about 25% truth	It's been really disappointing for me to discover that the \\"diaries\\" which Dr. Sparks \\"edits\\" so often are more fictional than factual.  Even if she, in her line of work, really has come across so many journals from troubled teens with so many different types of problems, it's incredibly suspicious how the writing style in each one is so dead-on similar, and how moralistic and preachy they all are.  For example, Jay will be trashing on his mother, and then a page later he profusely and tearfully takes it back, or he'll be happily having sex with his girlfriend Debbie but later on in the journal saying he'll never have premarital sex ever again.  Only about 25 of the entries in here are actually Jay's; the rest come from teenagers who were into the occult, something which the real Jay himself was never even into.  And I'm not a member of that religion myself, but from what I've read, real Satanists don't do the things they are described as doing in this book, like killing cats, drinking a mix of cow's blood and potent drugs in a spooky initiation ceremony, and using Voodoo to harm their enemies.  The things that start happening towards the end really creeped me out, like the demonic possession, Jay talking to demons, the Devil leaping into the family cat, Jay's voice being taken away by the demon he encounters at night, and all of the increasingly bad things happening to his friends and enemies alike, but whether or not they're true or whether they happened to the real Jay is another story.<br /><br />Why would an intelligent, smart, MENSA-level IQ student, and devoted churchgoer such as Jay go from doing really well in school and helping out at his father's store to stealing drugs for his girlfriend and sneaking drugs into the medicines his father is selling?  Even if he really is so in love with Debbie he'll do anything for her, this kind of transformation just doesn't happen overnight like it does in the book.  When he's caught and sent away to a kind of corrections facility for troubled young men, he falls under the influence of Pete, who takes a great liking to him and begins tutoring him in secret about things like levitation, auras, crystals, projections, and all kinds of metaphysical and paranormal topics.  When Jay is finally released, he doesn't stop thinking about what Pete has taught him, and gets his two best friends involved.  Finding out that Pete has been dismissed from the home for raping a ten year old boy in a broom closet doesn't dampen the boys' fascination with the things he taught them about, however.  Eventually the three boys fall under the influence of even stranger people, people who are even deeper into the occult than they are, and for unexplained reasons they do everything these new friends of theirs do.  They're skipping a lot of steps in between being interested in safe paranormal and occult subjects like crystals, divination, auras, and projection and dangerous things like killing cows and cats, drinking their blood, and making and shredding Voodoo dolls of enemies.  In hindsight it does seem fishy how Jay goes from model student, devout churchgoer, and important member of his school's debate team to someone really messed up with the wrong crowd of friends and demonic possession.ions facility for troubled young men, he falls under the influence of Pete, who takes a great liking to him and begins tutoring him in secret about things like levitation, auras, crystals, projections, and all kinds of metaphysical and paranormal topics.  When Jay is finally released, he doesn't stop thinking about what Pete has taught him, and gets his two best friends involved.  Finding out that Pete has been dismissed from the home for raping a ten year old boy in a broom closet doesn't dampen the boys' fascination with the things he taught them about, however.  Eventually the three boys fall under the influence of even stranger people, people who are even deeper into the occult than they are, and for unexplained reasons they do everything these new friends of theirs do.  They're skipping a lot of steps in between being interested in safe paranormal and occult subjects like crystals, divination, auras, and projection and dangerous things like killing cows and cats, drinking their blood, and making and shredding Voodoo dolls of enemies.  In hindsight it does seem fishy how Jay goes from model student, devout churchgoer, and important member of his school's debate team to someone really messed up with the wrong crowd of friends and demonic possession.	2004-10-03
US	32987921	RW0UFB1ZFMN4O	0060929510	178905561	Modoc: The True Story of the Greatest Elephant That Ever Lived	Books	5	32	37	N	N	Exciting and touching story, but with a few problems	This is a really incredible and moving story about how Bram Gunterstein and his elephant Modoc grew up together and shared all of their lives together except for the years when they were separated after the circus they were in sold all of the animals.  I love animals, and it's nice to see a story about the bond between a human and an elephant; most human-animal stories feature dogs, cats, horses, ponies, and sometimes birds and small mammals like guinea pigs.  It's also told in a very lively and page-turning way, which makes it a quick read.  Some reviewers have suggested that there's no way Bram and Modoc could have had all of those adventures, like being shipwrecked, the mystical psychic encounter with the Raja's white elephant in the middle of the night, the war in Burma around the time of WWI, and all of their circus adventures, but many times truth is stranger than fiction, even if Mr. Helfer might have taken artistic license with some of the things he obviously wasn't there for.<br /><br />My main problem with the story is that dates are only given maybe two or three times.  We're not even told what year it is when the story begins.  That makes it really hard to keep track of how old the two main characters are over the years and through their many adventures.  And where are all of the important world events going on during this time, particularly WWI (which we only see a little of towards the end of their stay in Burma, when the liberation army comes to their village and terrorises everyone) and WWII?  Don't they have any impact on the lives of these characters and the events they're taking part in?  Also, a lot is made of Mr. North's \\"racial attitudes,\\" but the only thing Jewish about Bram that I saw in the book is his last name.  I know that's enough for some people, but it's like it was made into something much bigger than it really was, unless the true scope of Bram's religious identity was deeper and not mentioned in the book.  The other issue I have is the one other people have pointed out, how the elephant pictures don't match.  Modoc is described many times as having beautiful long tusks, but none of the elephants in the photo pages have any tusks.s the one other people have pointed out, how the elephant pictures don't match.  Modoc is described many times as having beautiful long tusks, but none of the elephants in the photo pages have any tusks.	2004-09-26
US	32987921	R31YEZG4RRNV0D	0060692456	737179203	Hua Hu Ching: The Unknown Teachings of Lao Tzu	Books	4	25	29	N	N	If it's a forgery it explains a lot	I was really excited when I found this book in late 1999, since I loved the Tao Te Ching and Lao-Tzu's simple, beautiful, timeless wisdom.  Finding this slim volume of his allegedly long-suppressed additional sayings was like the icing on the cake for me in my love of Taoist philosophy.  And the first chapters are really nice, with the types of sentiments you expect from the master, like \\"To embrace all things means first that one holds no anger or resistance toward any idea or thing, living or dead, formed or formless,\\" \\"If your willingness to give blessings is limited, so also is your ability to receive them,\\" and (my fave) \\"The ego is a monkey catapulting through the jungle.\\"  As another reviewer pointed out but which I didn't realise at the time, it sure sounds like Lao-Tzu, but it's a bit wordier than most of what he expressed in the Tao Te Ching.  Still, it sounds like his voice regardless of how wordy it is.  Later on it really gets into things like medicine, the names of ancient masters, angelic intercourse, science, the kinds of stuff that didn't appear at all in the Tao Te Ching.  It just wasn't as poetic, though I found the insights into ancient Chinese philosophy and science fascinating.  I also don't like how the text is arranged in this edition.  My edition of the Tao Te Ching is the only Gia-Fu Feng and Jane English one, where it's arranged like a beautiful freeverse poem.  In the Walker edition of the Hua Hu Ching, every line of text is arranged like a line in a book.  It doesn't seem nearly as poetic; would it have hurt to break some of the lines up mid-sentence like Feng and English did?<br /><br />Finding out this book is in all likelihood a forgery which was originally designed to create bad blood between both Buddhists and Taoists actually explains a lot.  I probably still would have bought it if I had known, but I wouldn't have been as likely to.  Whoever wrote it, there are some great, beautiful, lovely, poetic insights, but I'll always turn to the Tao Te Ching first when I want some Taoist inspiration.to the Tao Te Ching first when I want some Taoist inspiration.	2004-09-19
US	32987921	RVNPD3K3EWCFW	0385323905	706730548	Kaaterskill Falls	Books	3	2	7	N	N	Where is the plot?	This is one of those books where a lot happens but nothing is really resolved or accomplished.  The best-developed plots were about Elizabeth wanting her own store and the ailing Rav Kirsher's conflict over whether to pass the reins down to his secular and unmarried but brilliant son Jeremy or his more more rigid, sectarian, and observant son Isaiah, who has a wife and child.  Still, even when those plots get resolved more or less, nothing really comes of them that drastically affect the plot or the outcome of the entire story.  There were also the characters who disappeared without any reason or explanation, like Una, the old woman who lives alone, and Renee's non-Jewish friend Stephanie and her family.  There were so many interesting things going on that I wish would have been developed into something more, like Chana's illicit interest in Israel, Andras's growing struggle against his wife's religiosity, and Michael King's secret, but nothing really gets wrapped up or accomplished, not even with the two best-developed storylines.  And as a number of other reviewers have pointed out, there are glaring inaccuracies about how a Hassidic or right-wing Orthodox community would have been keeping kosher, in the Seventies or even today, such as how they're eating food in the houses of people who aren't in the same group as they are, or eating products that don't have the stamp of approval from their own people, or the supervision of the goods that are being shipped to Elizabeth's store in Kaaterskill Falls.  Although at least it was interesting, in spite of being full of dead-end plots.	2004-09-12
US	32987921	R2HGPFQ9A1REAQ	0971294518	178405093	Myths and Facts: A Guide to the Arab-Israeli Conflict	Books	5	11	18	N	N	A great answer to Israel-bashing propaganda	The group I helped to found at my university in my senior year, Student Alliance for Israel, our gift to the younger classes, made use of the great information contained in this book, like in some of the flyers on SAFI's table in the Campus Center.  The best defences are education and knowledge, and sadly many people, whatever their stance, just don't know the truth about a lot of these issues.  I know that sadly many people on the extreme Left won't believe even the rebuttals of the myths in this book, no matter how well-documented and historically authentic the facts are, but at least when you counter their radical anti-Israel propaganda with solid facts, statistics, and examples, they have something to chew on besides just a general response of \\"That's wrong\\" or \\"I know that's a completely absurd allegation, but I don't know how to counter it, so I won't make myself look like a fool by trying to answer that.\\"  Some people think this book is biased, but it's the truth.  Maybe it makes them feel uncomfortable that basic history, well-documented history, supports Israel and doesn't paint the Arabs living in Israel as helpless bullied victims.  Still, it's hard to come up with any honest nonpropagandistic rebuttals to this biting slice of the truth.	2004-09-12
US	32987921	R1OZZZSG7N47WM	0471017078	916668421	English-Russian, Russian-English Dictionary	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Great all-purpose dictionary	This is the kind of dictionary a serious student of Russian (or any other foreign language) should get.  If you're only going to be studying it for a few years or learning the language for a short trip abroad, you're better suited getting one of the smaller dictionaries with less words, not a mammoth volume of over a thousand pages with tens of thousands of words contained within.  This dictionary has everything--current and up-to-date terminology, words in all sorts of fields (e.g., engineering, computers, science), obsolete words one might still run across in older books or poems, slang, idioms, words that don't have an equivalent in English (how awesome is it for a language to only need one word to say something like \\"to drag one's heels in the mud\\" or \\"to pinch from time to time\\"?), even the names of the pre-Revolutionary letters, such as the yat, which was replaced by the letter now representing the ye sound (E in Roman letters).  It also has great appendices on the names of different types of geographical areas (cities, islands, continents, historic regions, former Soviet republics, lakes, rivers, parts of cities, etc.) and famous surnames.  It also gives a chart of normal declensions in the beginning, plus the normal conjugations of the most common types of verbs.  Unlike some other dictionaries, it doesn't do your homework for you by conjugating a huge sample of verbs, both regular and irregular, in every single tense there is, or declining a similarly huge pool of nouns as well.  That's for you to learn, not up a dictionary to give you easy and immediately-available answers to.  And since this is clearly designed for someone who is serious about learning the Russian language, it also doesn't have a section on the Cryllic alphabet.  It's assumed that you already know it quite well if you're purchasing this dictionary in lieu of something designed for a more casual student.	2004-09-12
US	32987921	R2B5SRRTKVSW8Z	1887089225	93685914	Ramayana: India's Immortal Tale of Adventure, Love and Wisdom	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Not my fave of Vishnu's avatars, but still a great story	I understand why the Ramayana is such a popular and beloved story even today, but overall I really found that I liked Vishnu's avatar as Krishna better than his earlier one as Rama.  Rama's being Vishnu incarnate wasn't really a big part of this version, and because he was depicted as such a great human being and hero, acting in very specific roles as an overly obedient son, devoted husband and brother, and finally heroic warrior, it was easy to lose sight of the fact of his true identity.  With Krishna, I find it easier to not lose sight of the fact that he's Vishnu in a human body, and in the Krishna story, he's depicted in so many different roles (e.g., baby, lover, best friend, sneaky little boy, enlightened teacher) that one can easier relate to him as more than just some exemplary human being and a deity made mortal, which Vishnu does only when the balance of evil in the world overrides that of good.  He had to take on a human avatar to kill Ravana, since he was so evil that no one could kill him, and he also had a boon from Brahma which entitled him to protection against being killed by one of the gods, many of whom had a long list of grievances with him.  The gods know that it will be almost impossible for an ordinary human to kill Ravana, so Vishnu takes on his seventh avatar to rid the world of his evil.<br /><br />I know that in comparison to other versions of this famous ancient tale, this one doesn't tell the entire story and is more like a brief retelling of each important event that happens along the way, like the abduction of Sita, Hanuman leaping to Lanka to scope things out, Rama, Lakshmana, and Sita going into exile, and the important battles in the war Rama, Lakshmana, Ravana's little brother Vibhishana and four of his friends, and their huge army of bears and monkeys wage against Ravana and his evil Rakshasas.  No matter how condensed it might be in comparison to the actual full-length epic tale, it still conveys the same sense of romance, mystery, love, adventure, and human emotions that a much longer version does.  It's also different from other versions because of the depiction of Sita's ordeal; some versions have her immolating herself and dying, but this version has a twist on it.  (How far we've come; Rama's accusations of infidelity, in spite of the curse prohibiting Ravana from raping a mortal woman and in spite of how he only accused Sita of infidelity to test her, are not only highly un-PC now but just insulting!  The woman was kidnapped and held by an extremely evil man and his cohorts for nearly a year; it's not like she ran off with him of her own free will!)  This version is also missing what I find to be the most moving part of the Ramayana, when Hanuman, the noblest of the monkeys, literally tears up his chest to show that his devotion to and love for Rama and Sita are so deep and strong that their names and images are literally written on his heart.<br /><br />As illustrated by Sita's ordeal towards the end, and along with some other things in the story, there is a strong sense of a time, culture, and place which is very far from how people live today.  But in spite of how Rama is overly obedient to his father and his later treatment of Sita, or how Lakshmana won't even look his brother's wife in the eyes, the overall story is timeless.  I don't usually like books with battle scenes, but the battles fought here are so well-written and captivating that they're nothing like the usual fare of endlessly describing battles.  I can't wait to read some other versions of the Ramayana to compare with what's written here.tery, love, adventure, and human emotions that a much longer version does.  It's also different from other versions because of the depiction of Sita's ordeal; some versions have her immolating herself and dying, but this version has a twist on it.  (How far we've come; Rama's accusations of infidelity, in spite of the curse prohibiting Ravana from raping a mortal woman and in spite of how he only accused Sita of infidelity to test her, are not only highly un-PC now but just insulting!  The woman was kidnapped and held by an extremely evil man and his cohorts for nearly a year; it's not like she ran off with him of her own free will!)  This version is also missing what I find to be the most moving part of the Ramayana, when Hanuman, the noblest of the monkeys, literally tears up his chest to show that his devotion to and love for Rama and Sita are so deep and strong that their names and images are literally written on his heart. <br /> <br />As illustrated by Sita's ordeal towards the end, and along with some other things in the story, there is a strong sense of a time, culture, and place which is very far from how people live today.  But in spite of how Rama is overly obedient to his father and his later treatment of Sita, or how Lakshmana won't even look his brother's wife in the eyes, the overall story is timeless.  I don't usually like books with battle scenes, but the battles fought here are so well-written and captivating that they're nothing like the usual fare of endlessly describing battles.  I can't wait to read some other versions of the Ramayana to compare with what's written here.	2004-09-12
US	32987921	R2A2O6O14FDKE0	0394950909	321847518	Kids' Whole Future Cat	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Get back in print!	This is an incredible and easy to read resource on possible future inventions, jobs, technologies, houses, types of living structures (e.g., living houses, deep underground, floating cities, flying cities, space farms), space travel, how to live a more natural lifestyle, the type which might come back into vogue in the future, recycling, future languages, how to achieve world peace, you name it.  It's for anyone who's interested in how life might be like in the future, whether you want the information for a story, book, or article you're writing or you're just interested in the information for its own sake.  I know it got me fascinated enough to read other books on this very subject, and upset that we haven't yet got the majority of the things described, like the terraforming of Mars and the Moon, flying cities, and houses made entirely out of things like soda bottles and empty cartons of bleach.  While it's still available in good libraries, it really needs to get back in print and to be updated; things have changed a lot since 1982!	2004-09-12
US	32987921	RU8DIPGE3MR4D	0312422636	435456349	Peter Camenzind: A Novel	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Sweet but largely unmemorable first work	Like most of Hesse's pre-'Demian' novels, this too is rather simplistic and forgettable, even without being compared to the greatnesses which were to come.  His early novels are sweet, touching, sincere, and thoughtful, but the plots still aren't as complex or mature as those in his later glories.  We follow Swiss mountain boy Peter Camenzind through his youth and early manhood, through his delight and joy in life in his native hamlet, including his first unrequited love, to his idealistic and happy sojourn in Italy with his dear friend Richard (where he once again falls victim to unrequited love), to dissipation in France and yet a third unhappy unrequited love, to a truly touching friendship with an older crippled hunchback named Boppi, and finally back to his native village to care for his aging father and to continue pursuing his dreams of being a journalist and a writer.  It's an extremely autobiographical novel, though because it's a first novel, the plot is incredibly simplistic and not very complex or mature; just following the life and loves of a simple Swiss mountain boy.  Probably the most memorable part of the book for me, apart from Peter's friendship with Boppi, is when Frau Camenzind dies in the night while Peter is sitting on the bed without even waking his father up to tell him his own wife is dying.  When Herr Camenzind wakes up and finds out what has happened, he is furious that Peter didn't call a priest to administer Last Rites, though father and son aren't on the outs for long and soon they're going out drinking together.  (The other most memorable part is the classic opening line, \\"In the beginning was the myth.\\")  The events are interesting and well-described, just not as well-developed or multifaceted as they would be in Hesse's later masterpieces.	2004-09-09
US	32987921	RPLGKORIG9YWE	0823213064	390023039	Stealing Home: Israel Bound and Rebound	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Writings on wide range of topics	I came to this book expecting it to be a memoir, or at least the author's story of how he and his family made aliyah, how they came to that decision, and what life was like for them while they were still new citizens.  Instead I found the book to be about the author's experiences with and opinions on a wide variety of topics, like the Black Hebrews, the Bedouins, the Israeli school system, his periodic service in the military, and revisiting his boyhood neighbourhood in the Bronx.  Some of them, like the ones on the Black Hebrews and the school system, I found more interesting than others (I wasn't that interested in the chapters on the Hispanic-Americans' visit to Israel or the poet Maxime Kumin, for example).  I'm not sure how to classify this book; it's not written like a memoir, certainly doesn't read like an aliyah tract, and I wouldn't call it a collection of essays either because they're on the one hand too personal to be essays only, yet on the other hand go from topic to topic without being centered around one specific theme or time period.  The book starts out very interestingly, with the author talking about how he and his wife thought they were being original when they named their firstborn Jennifer in 1965, only to their dismay and shock to discover there were many other Jennifers in her kindergarten class; the introduction closes by saying that their third- and fourth-born, Yishai and Miriam, are also far from being the only ones in their classes answering to those names, but this time Mr. Chertok and his wife (whom I've discovered he's since divorced) are neither surprised nor dismayed.  And it really starts out reading like it's going to be a personal memoir of how the family made aliyah, or at least Mr. Chertok's memoirs of his life up till then.  So it was kind of suprising when it quickly turned into a collection of personal recollections on a variety of topics, more like essays than real memoirs.<br /><br />The writing style isn't overly complicated or boring, though I found some of the essays more relevant and interesting than others.  And some of the information contained within is now dated or different; these events took place during the Eighties after all, and a lot about Israeli society has changed since then.  I'm giving it four stars because, while the material was for the most part good, it's not the type of book that someone would probably be interested in reading unless s/he was already very interested in this subject.  It's not for laypeople.  And the arrangement of the essays also wasn't entirely to my agreement, coupled with how it's difficult to describe exactly what type of book it's supposed to be--essay, personal reflection, political tract, memoir, or a hybrid of those subjects.cated or boring, though I found some of the essays more relevant and interesting than others.  And some of the information contained within is now dated or different; these events took place during the Eighties after all, and a lot about Israeli society has changed since then.  I'm giving it four stars because, while the material was for the most part good, it's not the type of book that someone would probably be interested in reading unless s/he was already very interested in this subject.  It's not for laypeople.  And the arrangement of the essays also wasn't entirely to my agreement, coupled with how it's difficult to describe exactly what type of book it's supposed to be--essay, personal reflection, political tract, memoir, or a hybrid of those subjects.	2004-09-07
US	32987921	R2S1VQ7QDCBCUW	0394711513	297864101	Revelations: Diaries of Women	Books	4	4	10	N	N	Some nice material, but painfully dated	For the most part, these are some great excerpts from womens' journals (though I wish there had been more than just one diary which was written before the 19th century!).  However, it becomes painfully obvious by a lot of the editorial comments and the selection process they admitted to using that this came out in the Seventies.  I've read other anthologies of journals like this, and they don't make it obvious which era they came out in.  It doesn't take a rocket scientist to figure out that this came out at the height of womens' lib, and the editors seem like they went a bit overboard.  They were certainly well-meaning, but a lot of stuff that came out in this era now looks silly and like people got too carried away in that flush of an era of new possibilities and horizons.  Particularly irksome is how they say that they didn't pick journallers based on if they lived in a historically interesting time, but rather admitted \\"Our own tastes led us to put aside those that posited a self we didn't like or find interesting, and to seek out those that demonstrated character as the ability to make moral distinctions and choices according to a personal code rather than the social or religious codes of the age in which they wrote.\\"  So then you'd rather have someone who went against the grain and whose viewpoints jive with your own rather than have someone whose beliefs you might disagree with even if she were personally religious or held to the moral code of her day and age because that was how she felt anyway, with or without the rest of society acting that way.  I'd rather read journals from women who lived in interesting historical time periods, not from journals which were selected only because of political or social beliefs.  It's like they were trying to find women from other eras whose opinions or personal lives agreed with what was going on in the Seventies, like sexual liberation or not getting married, and admitted that they discarded a journal which was historically interesting yet \\"cast too little light on the personality of the author.\\"  And Carolina Maria de Jesus did incredible things for the poor people of Brazil, but she also had all three of her children by different fathers and didn't marry any of them; is that the type of woman you want your daughter to emulate in terms of morals?  I was also disgusted by the diary of Evelyn Scott, who ran away to Rio de Janiero at the age of twenty with a married man, pregnant with their illegitimate child.  I'm not surprised that a number of these journals are now out of print, because they're so dated and no longer relevant!  An awful lot of their comments seem like putting words in peoples' mouths; how would they know that some journaller they tossed aside wasn't status quo or religious because it was her integral nature the same way as it was another woman's integral nature to shun marriage and mainstream sexual behaviour?<br /><br />It has never occured to me that I keep journals because I feel I have no other outlet of expression and like my views would be stifled otherwise, or to find \\"my true nature.\\"  I also don't think that any normal journallers think about why they're journalling, or if their journals are expressions of love, work, or power, as though life can be compartmentalised into such tidy and specific little categories.  Most journallers just want to keep a record of their lives.  \\"Although earlier taboos are disappearing about what is acceptable for a woman to feel, and although personal matters that were never confided even to a close friend are now casual dinner-table conversation, many women still keep diaries.\\" There's a shocker. \\"As we continue to speak more openly to each other and to men, breaking the long silence about what a woman's inner life is like, dropping false personas, the need for diaries as an emotional outlet may disappear.\\"  That must be why so many people still keep journals as an emotional outlet.  I think most women across the ages havekept journals just because they wanted to, not to express anger at the system or to have an outlet for illicit and taboo beliefs!  \\"To read this book of selections from women's diaries is, for a woman reader, to experience an excitement, a warm recognition, and a dizzyingly expanded sense of possibilities....\\"  Maybe that was true for a woman who picked the book up when it first came out, but I was born in 1979 and have always known the possibilities open to me.  Times have changed a lot.  So many of these excerpts (some of which would have seemed more coherent and interesting if the editors hadn't skipped around so much between the entries; why were all of the entries in between the included ones not included as well?) were so obviously included out of feminist or political motivations, and didn't make me eager to read the full-length books.  This was a really laudable effort, but ultimately is like so many other books which came out in this era--laughably dated today.e kept journals just because they wanted to, not to express anger at the system or to have an outlet for illicit and taboo beliefs!  \\"To read this book of selections from women's diaries is, for a woman reader, to experience an excitement, a warm recognition, and a dizzyingly expanded sense of possibilities....\\"  Maybe that was true for a woman who picked the book up when it first came out, but I was born in 1979 and have always known the possibilities open to me.  Times have changed a lot.  So many of these excerpts (some of which would have seemed more coherent and interesting if the editors hadn't skipped around so much between the entries; why were all of the entries in between the included ones not included as well?) were so obviously included out of feminist or political motivations, and didn't make me eager to read the full-length books.  This was a really laudable effort, but ultimately is like so many other books which came out in this era--laughably dated today.	2004-09-07
US	32987921	R2AOJGI227XXSJ	0374480796	408236261	Upon the Head of the Goat: A Childhood in Hungary 1939-1944	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Started my love for all things Hungarian	This was the first book I read about the Shoah in Hungary, and it was so fascinating that it got me interested in all things Hungarian.  It's different from many books about the Shoah in that the majority of it takes place before the Nazi invasion of Hungary on 19 March 1944, when the remaining members of the Davidowitz family are shipped off to a ghetto.  Though life is growing increasingly hard for them because of the anti-Jewish regulations and the strain of living during a war in general, and Piri had to stay in the Ukraine with her grandmother and older sister Rozsi longer than she expected to because of a border war, the Davidowitzes still have a pretty normal and decent life before they have to leave for the ghetto.  During this time the family also does their part to help other Jewish families and people in need, even with hiding them in safe houses or helping to smuggle them across borders, and Iboya, the next-youngest of Mrs. Davidowitz's children by her first marriage, is very involved in Zionism.  And even in the ghetto, Piri's family and her best friend Judi's little family live the best they can, trying to keep their spirits up and to be happy.  Piri and Judi both have their first romances in the ghetto, in fact.  It's not one of those books that starts out happily and then quickly moves to the ghetto and then the camps.  In fact, the book ends as they're leaving the ghetto in the cattlecar, and only a short postscript tells us what happened after that.<br /><br />The book is also interesting because not all of Piri's siblings are at home, unlike many other Shoah books where all of the family are in the same house.  Because her mother didn't want her grandmother to be lonely after she was widowed, she began farming out her five daughters to stay with her to keep her company, but Lilli, the oldest, wasn't her companion very long because she got married at only 16 years old and soon had a baby.  Now Rozsi is living with the grandmother, and loves farm life very much, while the other older sister, Etu, is away at university in Budapest.  Even after Lilli and her young daugher Manci move back in, there are still only Piri and her sister Iboya left at home along with their halfsiblings Sandor and Joli, and when Lilli's husband Lajos is arrested and Lilli insists on joining him along with Manci, there are still only the youngest four still at home.  It makes it interesting because the family are in all different places instead of all suffering the same fates or suffering all together.  The only complaint I have about the book is one I acquired in hindsight; it would have been helpful to have told the reader something about the pronunciation of the Hungarian names and that some of the names used, like Ica and Manci, are nicknames and not full given names.life very much, while the other older sister, Etu, is away at university in Budapest.  Even after Lilli and her young daugher Manci move back in, there are still only Piri and her sister Iboya left at home along with their halfsiblings Sandor and Joli, and when Lilli's husband Lajos is arrested and Lilli insists on joining him along with Manci, there are still only the youngest four still at home.  It makes it interesting because the family are in all different places instead of all suffering the same fates or suffering all together.  The only complaint I have about the book is one I acquired in hindsight; it would have been helpful to have told the reader something about the pronunciation of the Hungarian names and that some of the names used, like Ica and Manci, are nicknames and not full given names.	2004-09-05
US	32987921	R34F073LI3MD6I	0312148542	295639784	Candide (The Bedford Series in History and Culture)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The best of all possible adventures	I'm naturally biased towards this particular edition, since it was translated by my History of the Enlightenment professor, but even putting aside which edition it might be, it's a witty, funny, timeless story mixing adventure in with Enlightenment philosophy and Voltaire's views on a whole myriad of subjects.  It's even alleged to be translated from the German notes of \\"Dr. Ralph,\\" so that his detractors might not guess right away whom the true author was, much like Montesquieu's classic 'The Persian Letters' also being in the guise of having been written by someone other than himself.  Professor Gordon says in the introduction that, if nothing else, at least this new translation restores Candide's original height to him!  He also points out, in the lengthy but far from boring introduction, a number of the sexual puns and innuendos that the reader probably wouldn't realise are dirty puns and sexual comments because the seemingly innocent language doesn't even seem to suggest it, or the pun is lost in translation from the French.<br /><br />Candide's very name means \\"pure,\\" and this young man indeed is pure, innocent, and overly trusting, even after he's cheated, robbed, used, and taken advantage of time after time throughout the story.  Besides his name, there is also irony in the subtitle, 'Optimism.'  The entire story is a prime example of Occum's Razor in action.  Everything you could possibly imagine goes wrong for Candide and his friends--being drafted into the Bulgar army, being driven out of the \\"paradise\\" of the Thunder-ten-tronck castle in Westphalia (which we know is little more than a hole in the wall!), having their riches stolen, being caught in the Lisbon earthquake, they're exiled, forced to flee for their lives, they're taken prisoners, caught in the Inquisition, you name it.  Candide innocently goes through all of these many trials out of his love for Cun&eacute;gonde, who in his sweetness and purity he doesn't realise is a whore.  But because of the oft-repeated phrase of his wise tutor Dr. Pangloss, he believes that \\"all events are linked together in this best of all possible worlds,\\" and doesn't see Cun&eacute;gonde, or any of the other bad things or unscrupulous people around him, as what they truly are.  Only when he finally gets Cun&eacute;gonde back does he realise that it was worth more trouble than it was worth, and only holds up to his promise to marry her because she presses him so strongly and because he wants to humiliate Cun&eacute;gonde's smug brother.  Even the ending, which by all accounts seems like a happy life for Candide and his friends, is laden with constant wondering why they're doing what they're doing, how things might have been different if some of the things they went through hadn't happened or had happened in different ways.t-repeated phrase of his wise tutor Dr. Pangloss, he believes that \\"all events are linked together in this best of all possible worlds,\\" and doesn't see Cungonde, or any of the other bad things or unscrupulous people around him, as what they truly are.  Only when he finally gets Cungonde back does he realise that it was worth more trouble than it was worth, and only holds up to his promise to marry her because she presses him so strongly and because he wants to humiliate Cungonde's smug brother.  Even the ending, which by all accounts seems like a happy life for Candide and his friends, is laden with constant wondering why they're doing what they're doing, how things might have been different if some of the things they went through hadn't happened or had happened in different ways.	2004-09-05
US	32987921	R2HZ9NGRDZLX1V	055327094X	235033926	QB VII	Books	5	8	10	N	N	The misuse of medicine?	This is a really fast-paced and intriguing courtroom book with a rather unique approach the the subject.  We're introducted to Dr. Adam Kelno first, the doctor later accused of misusing medicine in a horrific way in the camp he was forced into, and he isn't depicted as a bad guy at all.  I came to really like and sympathise with him; he wasn't presumed to be guilty or a bad person, because as of yet we just didn't know what really went on when he was a doctor in the fictitious camp of Jadwiga.  Only in Part Two do we get to know Abraham Cady, and we feel equally sympathetic towards him.  We don't know who the bad guy is supposed to be until we get into the courtroom, and even then it's not till close to the very end that we find out which of the two of them is the guilty one.  We like them both so much that until the evidence starts piling up, we don't know if Cady is really guilty of libel (or at least sloppy research) or if Dr. Kelno was truly carrying out those radiation and sterilisation procedures in the sadistic way he's accused of doing.  As for the reviewer who wanted to know why real names and places weren't used, I think it's because this is a work of historical fiction, not a nonfiction account of war crimes or the misuse of medicine in the Nazi camps.  One has more leeway when using fictional characters and settings than in using real people, and telling this story in the mode of historical fiction instead of straight nonfiction narrative doesn't take away the emotional truths and deep impact of what happened.	2004-09-05
US	32987921	R252GBR8RAQQHV	1556524048	461509028	Forever Amber (Rediscovered Classics)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	The adventure of a lifetime	This book really is like a British Restoration-era GWTW, minus the racism.  This is what a historical romance really should be--a love story told in the genre of historical fiction, not just a romance novel where a setting in the past serves as little more than a costume drama.  I have an old hardcover copy from 1945 (in surprisingly great condition!), with the text on two columns on each page, running only 652 pages as opposed to the 976 pages boasted by the current paperback issue.  Like Scarlett in GWTW, Amber is also a feisty woman ahead of her time, not caring whom she may hurt, use, exploit, or cuckold on her way up to the top or in pursuit of the man she loves best above all.  I really understand why the name Amber became so popular after this novel came out--sure, like Scarlett, she's not the type of woman you'd want your daughter to emulate in terms of their morals, but I think it's her determination to get what she wants and how she continually rises above and triumphs over things that would have totally destroyed many another person that made so many women name their daughters after her.  And unlike Scarlett, Amber loves sex, and goes through a lot more lovers, marries four times (and probably would have married five times had it not been for what happened with the handsome and caring Captain Rex Morgan), and has three abortions in between having her first and second child.  What woman in the 1660s, indeed even today, would have been able to rise as far as Amber does, from an illegitimate orphaned child, to an unwed mother herself, in and out of debtors' prison, a life of crime, living with unsavoury elements, a career in the theatre at a time when female actors were considered very disreputable and low-class, two horrible husbands (Samuel Dangerfield, her second husband, and Baron Gerald Stanhope, the fourth, were the nicest of her four husbands), the Plague of 1665, the Great Fire of London of 1666, the Dutch invasion, a meddling jade of a mother-in-law (by her final marriage), to becoming a Lady of the Bedchamber and King Charles II's top mistress, displacing Barbara Villiers Palmer, by being meek, passive, and submissive?  If Amber were a doormat and typical woman of her day and age, she would have stayed in Marygreen and never had the half of the adventures and experiences she had.<br /><br />I was surprised the book didn't live up to its reputation as being shocking, sexy, and scandalous.  How far we've come from 1944, when a book with sex scenes which are only hinted at and a woman who sleeps around and behaves in the manner Amber does is now considered tame and doesn't even raise an eyebrow.  This is no longer the type of book you'd hide under the mattress or punish a teenage daughter for reading.  The only thing I didn't like was how it ended almost in media res; also like GWTW, it was begging for a sequel, though given the mixed reviews the so-called sequel to GWTW has gotten, maybe it's a good thing that there was no sequel to 'Forever Amber,' with Amber in America trying to win Bruce once and for all.  How can you compare a sequel, by the original author or by someone else, to the brilliance of the epic story that came before?  Most fans probably have a picture in their head of what happened after the final page ended, so why ruin it with something that may not go along with our fantasies?(by her final marriage), to becoming a Lady of the Bedchamber and King Charles II's top mistress, displacing Barbara Villiers Palmer, by being meek, passive, and submissive?  If Amber were a doormat and typical woman of her day and age, she would have stayed in Marygreen and never had the half of the adventures and experiences she had. <br /> <br />I was surprised the book didn't live up to its reputation as being shocking, sexy, and scandalous.  How far we've come from 1944, when a book with sex scenes which are only hinted at and a woman who sleeps around and behaves in the manner Amber does is now considered tame and doesn't even raise an eyebrow.  This is no longer the type of book you'd hide under the mattress or punish a teenage daughter for reading.  The only thing I didn't like was how it ended almost in media res; also like GWTW, it was begging for a sequel, though given the mixed reviews the so-called sequel to GWTW has gotten, maybe it's a good thing that there was no sequel to 'Forever Amber,' with Amber in America trying to win Bruce once and for all.  How can you compare a sequel, by the original author or by someone else, to the brilliance of the epic story that came before?  Most fans probably have a picture in their head of what happened after the final page ended, so why ruin it with something that may not go along with our fantasies?	2004-09-03
US	32987921	R139IGH0NJUS6M	0192833332	897131272	Rudin; On the Eve (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	4 stars for 'Rudin,' 5 for OTE	Turgenev is my fourth-favourite writer, though I don't know if I'd have placed him so highly on my list of favourite writers if I'd been introduced to him through his novels (of which he wrote only six) instead of his short stories.  His books are as good as his stories, make no mistake, but he's more of an idea novelist than an action novelist.  The plots aren't full of unexpected edge-of-your seat twists and turns and suspense; he's not the man to go to if you like your novels full of page-turning excitement and events that happen quickly.  His characters seem to be more important than the plots; the characters are the ones who espouse and convey Turgenev's ideas and philosophies.<br /><br />'Rudin,' the first of the two novels contained in this small volume and Turgenev's first book, I found rather unmemorable.  (In fact, I found the debut novel of Hermann Hesse, my next-fave writer, 'Peter Camenzind,' to be more interesting and memorable, and overall PC isn't even one of his most memorable books!)  Maybe it's because it was a first novel, though.  Not much really happens; there are some nice descriptive pieces, but overall it's just a bunch of characters espousing ideas and explaining why they believe what they believe.  I also had a hard time keeping track of which character was which, it was that non-character-driven.<br /><br />The second of the two books, 'On the Eve,' is brilliant by comparison.  It's much more memorable, and much easier to remember which character is which, since they do more than just sit around philosophising.  It also gets bonus points from me because the male protagonist is Bulgarian, since I love Bulgaria and Bulgarians.  I was surprised that Yelena and Insarov actually managed to get married, given that nearly all of the love stories in Turgenev's writing end sadly, but the end is typically Turgenev.  (My third-fave writer, Chekhov, also overwhelmingly has sad or pessimistic endings, but they wouldn't be who they were if their stories had happy endings!)  I also like how Turgenev has an epilogue in his books (or in this case, a conclusion which may not be labelled as an epilogue but still serves the same purpose) to let the reader know what has happened to the characters since the main story wrapped up.  Instead of just ending when the plot reaches its conclusion, he lets us know what has happened to the characters we've gotten to know and love.stories had happy endings!)  I also like how Turgenev has an epilogue in his books (or in this case, a conclusion which may not be labelled as an epilogue but still serves the same purpose) to let the reader know what has happened to the characters since the main story wrapped up.  Instead of just ending when the plot reaches its conclusion, he lets us know what has happened to the characters we've gotten to know and love.	2004-09-03
US	32987921	RC84ARZIEN4KQ	0520219562	271347998	Survivors: An Oral History Of The Armenian Genocide	Books	5	18	24	N	N	Incredible volume	This is a most incredible collection of quotes and accounts from non-survivor firsthand sources (like missionaries and orphanage workers), interviews from survivors themselves, and history of the genocide of 1915, Armenian life before and after the genocide, and the massacres which took place in 1909 and 1895-97, as well as a great appendix on the questions they asked the survivors (which contrary to the tired old historical revisionist claims of the Turks, are NOT leading or loaded, but rather straightforward questions about things like what life was like in their neighbourhood before the genocide, how the household was run, what types of relations they had with local Turks, feelings of guilt they may have had, how they adjusted to life in a new country or orphanage, escape attempts, that sort of thing).  There's also a great section on the types of reponses survivors have had to the genocide, like guilt, anger, sorrow, depression, terrorism, forgiveness, etc.  There need to be more books published like this, but of course the Turks will typically continue to deny what their government did and insult the memory of the one and a half million Armenians who were butchered, engaging in all of the usual characteristics of those who deny genocide and who try to revise well-documented historical facts.  Thankfully more and more nations are officially recognising the events of 1915 as genocide.  And this comes from the perspective of someone who doesn't have any Armenian blood in her, nor any marital ties to Armenians; I'm just an Armenophile odar who has felt great love for and solidarity with the Armenian people since I found out about the genocide in the spring of 1995 at the age of fifteen.	2004-09-03
US	32987921	R2VJMLRFPM0NGK	0060598239	53165892	Belles on Their Toes	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Awesome sequel	I can't believe I didn't know this book existed till very recently; I would have bought and read it a whole lot sooner had I known, having read the first book about five or six times.  It's in the same funny spirit as the first, though the focus has shifted from the antics of the entire family to the mother's struggle to take care of her eleven children after her husband died.  And the funny moments aren't as frequent as in the first book, since the children are older.  It also seems like the younger children got the short end of the stick--less time was given to writing about their own humourous childhood anecdotes and stories, since time passes really quickly after Anne gets married.  The only other thing in this book I wasn't keen on was how some of it was dated.  Some of it, like Mrs. Gilbreth trying to find reasons for the oldest two not to smoke and then instantly retracting each reason, or the youngest boys teaching Jane how to be popular and get dates by not being her true self, is to be expected, given not only the era in which that happened but also when the book was published, but there are a few slang words and references that the modern reader might not understand or find as funny or relevant as someone who was a contemporary of the family might.  We all know what a sheik is, but who uses the term \\"wet smack\\" anymore, for example?  Still, overall it's a sweet fun way to wrap up the story of this funny family.	2004-09-03
US	32987921	R9SXFOQJCHEVW	0395720397	402272323	Dancing on the Bridge of Avignon	Books	5	3	3	N	N	"Sur le pont d'Avignon, on y danse, on y danse...."	(Actually, 4.5 stars)<br /><br />Like Ida Vos's other books, this one too closely mirrors the story of her own family in Holland under the Nazi occupation; the de Jongs are from Groningen, have moved to Rijswijk, there are two young sisters of about the same age as the two sisters in 'Hide and Seek' and 'The Key Is Lost' (as well as the approximate ages Ida and her own younger sister Esther were), the family are living out in the open until the situation gets too worse to ignore, and the young protagonist Rosa even has the same birthdate as that of the author, 13 December 1931.  Unlike her other books, however, it doesn't end with a happy reunion.<br /><br />Rosa and her little sister Silvie constantly quiz one another on all of the many anti-Jewish regulations, asking what happened on what date or asking what date something happened on, since they are so afraid they might accidentally forget and sit on a park bench, enter a library, or go swimming.  They are also having frequent daydreams, which really angers their father, who is under enough stress already.  In the middle of this the Mendes family, who are from France (and based on the three-person family who lived with the author's family at this time), come to live with the de Jongs--Louis and his wife Isabelle, who are artists, and their 13 month old baby Philippe.  Rosa and Silvie are over the moon to get a baby brother, even if he's not a real baby brother, and even more so because he gets to sleep in their room.  Rosa's spirits are also kept afloat during these dark days by her violin, even though she has had to change tutors and schools a number of times because of all of the anti-Jewish regulations and arrests going on.  And it is indeed her violin which literally saves her eventually.<br /><br />Rosa's uncle Sander, who is famous for telling windies, tells the family one day that he has saved a German officer from drowning, and in gratitute has granted Sander and nine other people of his choosing papers to travel to the safety of Vichy France.  This is based on the real-life character of Friedrich Weinreb, one of the leaders of Dutch Jewry, around whom incredible stories circled, including one about how he saved a Nazi from being struck by a car.  The author's family were on the list of people Weinreb was planning to take to Vichy France as well, but unlike the de Jongs, they got suspicious of it and were taken off of it before it was too late.<br /><br />The only part of the book I didn't like was how it ended in media res, after Sander has found Rosa after she's been told how to get out of the police station.  The short epilogue which follows leaves a lot of unanswered questions, like how they got out of there and survived until the end of the war.  The end of the epilogue itself was pretty much a dead end, with no real sense of closure; I realise that it was meant to show the reader that Rosa did take back her family's original surname, Rosevici, but that's not really closure on any of the events contained in the story or even presented in a way that makes one realise that this tale is complete.pers to travel to the safety of Vichy France.  This is based on the real-life character of Friedrich Weinreb, one of the leaders of Dutch Jewry, around whom incredible stories circled, including one about how he saved a Nazi from being struck by a car.  The author's family were on the list of people Weinreb was planning to take to Vichy France as well, but unlike the de Jongs, they got suspicious of it and were taken off of it before it was too late.   <br /> <br />The only part of the book I didn't like was how it ended in media res, after Sander has found Rosa after she's been told how to get out of the police station.  The short epilogue which follows leaves a lot of unanswered questions, like how they got out of there and survived until the end of the war.  The end of the epilogue itself was pretty much a dead end, with no real sense of closure; I realise that it was meant to show the reader that Rosa did take back her family's original surname, Rosevici, but that's not really closure on any of the events contained in the story or even presented in a way that makes one realise that this tale is complete.	2004-09-01
US	32987921	R20MO4AKNAA62S	0385333706	648698209	After Long Silence: A Memoir	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Great story on most fronts	This was a really well-told story interweaving a number of different plots--the childhood of the author, her father's experience in Siberia and his later escape from it, her mother's escape from occupied Poland into Italy, her aunt's life in Italy before WWII broke out, her parents' and aunt's childhoods, and events from the present day.  Ms. Fremont says in the beginning that she has filled in some gaps in her parents' and aunt's story with imagined details which she feels conveys the emotional truth of those experiences, which kind of seems like authors who make real-life characters be composites of multiple people involved in the story--sure it tells the story, but how well or accurately is another matter.<br /><br />I'm glad that the author and her older sister found out their true identity (though it's surprising it took till they were in their thirties, given how many obvious clues were out there all throughout their childhoods), and that they found all of their new relatives at the end, people who were able to clue them in on other people in their family tree.  What I didn't like how they broke the news to their parents (and later to their aunt, against their mother's stern warnings not to).  Many survivors of tragic events, not just the Shoah, hid their true identities for decades, even their entire lives, to protect not just themselves but their children from possible future persecution.  Their daughters have no way of knowing what was going inside of their heads to make them make this huge decision, but certainly it wasn't done out of meanness or spite, to purposely keep their future children ignorant of their true history.  They had their reasons which they firmly believed in and shouldn't have to explain or justify them to anyone.  And the parents and the aunt doubtless reacted so angrily and emotionally to finding out the cat was finally out of the bag because of the way in which the news was conveyed.  It's like they didn't think ahead far enough to how these aging survivors might take this shock to the system.  Would you angrily confront your mother because, for example, you found out you had been fathered by a rapist and not the man you thought was your father?  That's like saying that it doesn't matter why the other party kept this secret; it's all about how you and you alone feel.  Zosia, the aunt, said that she was so traumatised by the events of the War that she literally forgot everything that happened before she escaped from Poland and back into Italy to her husband, even forgetting her sister's own name.  The mother even mentioned in passing that the day of the Petlura massacre, her period stopped for nine months; it's a wonder her children didn't grill her about that too, asking if she'd been raped and had a child.  Haven't these three elderly people been through enough?  No wonder they didn't approve of this book.<br /><br />Some family secrets do need to come out of the closet, and this was certainly one of them, but the subject could have been broached in a way that was more sensitive to what the parents and aunt had suffered through.  You may feel better after finding out the truth, but exposing a painful family secret is about everyone involved and thinking ahead to how this might disrupt a formerly happy family inalterably.  The parents and aunt didn't even seem to have come to terms with what happened or achieved any sense of closure or inner-peace; indeed, Ms. Fremont reports that now they don't even speak about it anymore, after the initial period when they were telling them what had happened to them.o how these aging survivors might take this shock to the system.  Would you angrily confront your mother because, for example, you found out you had been fathered by a rapist and not the man you thought was your father?  That's like saying that it doesn't matter why the other party kept this secret; it's all about how you and you alone feel.  Zosia, the aunt, said that she was so traumatised by the events of the War that she literally forgot everything that happened before she escaped from Poland and back into Italy to her husband, even forgetting her sister's own name.  The mother even mentioned in passing that the day of the Petlura massacre, her period stopped for nine months; it's a wonder her children didn't grill her about that too, asking if she'd been raped and had a child.  Haven't these three elderly people been through enough?  No wonder they didn't approve of this book. <br /> <br />Some family secrets do need to come out of the closet, and this was certainly one of them, but the subject could have been broached in a way that was more sensitive to what the parents and aunt had suffered through.  You may feel better after finding out the truth, but exposing a painful family secret is about everyone involved and thinking ahead to how this might disrupt a formerly happy family inalterably.  The parents and aunt didn't even seem to have come to terms with what happened or achieved any sense of closure or inner-peace; indeed, Ms. Fremont reports that now they don't even speak about it anymore, after the initial period when they were telling them what had happened to them.	2004-08-30
US	32987921	R7K6MBS72KAQZ	0876042930	749235269	Beyond the Ashes: Cases of Reincarnation from the Holocaust	Books	5	28	30	N	N	Good in spite of a somewhat misleading title	This was a really interesting book, but based on the title, I was expecting it to be more about the cases of people who had had previous incarnations during the Shoah.  There were maybe a dozen or so such cases presented, even though the author has counseled a plethora of such people.  The cases he does present merely seem to serve as a backdrop for a greater theme of reincarnation in Judaism, Jewish mysticism, and popular misconceptions about the place of spirituality, reincarnation, and New Age elements in Judaism, along with his own mystical beliefs and experiences.  It's not that it was badly-written, just that, based on the title, the book would have been better-served focusing more on the many individuals he counseled and the specifics of each of their cases, instead of just using short synopses of about a dozen of their stories as a backdrop for the abovementioned topics.  I read the book because I too believe I was there before and am interested in reincarnation stories anyway; I didn't purchase it in the expectation of reading mostly about Jewish mysticism (a great topic, but not one I was looking for here) and other topics that didn't really relate that much to the title.	2004-08-27
US	32987921	R2TQWH2P4771IB	0374513910	625923684	Prussian Nights: A Poem (Russian Edition)	Books	5	13	16	N	N	An amazing epic poem	It's incredible to realise that Aleksandr Isayevich kept this entire poem memorised in his head for many years before it was safe to write it down, esp. considering it has about twelve thousand lines and is over fifty pages long.  It takes place during the early winter of 1945, in East Prussia, when WWII was ending, and describes what was going on during this time, like the fighting between the Russians and the Germans, the magnificent breakthrough into German territory from the East, and the ransacking of abandoned German houses by the victorious Russian army.  Like all of the men in his unit, Aleksandr Isayevich is also a young soldier living for today, feeling he can do whatever he pleases because his side is winning and can do whatever he wants to the much-weakened enemies standing in his way, including stealing belongings from the houses which were abandoned by their owners, who were in a big hurry to flee westward with the Nazis once it became clear they were losing the war and the Russians were on their way.<br /><br />The end is very powerful and tender; the young narrator has entered yet another house, only this time it isn't abandoned.  Like most young soldiers in wartime, he wants to sleep with the woman he finds there alone, but unlike some other soldiers, he doesn't rape her or demand her services, rather letting her decide when she's ready (not like she has much choice anyway!).  And after the woman has given her \\"consent,\\" partly because she fears for her life if she refuses, the narrator already feels horrible about what he's done, while the woman is begging him not to kill her.  The final three lines, of what is going through his mind and how he feels about what he's done to this woman, are very poignant and haunting.	2004-08-26
US	32987921	R1R4KYJO86RUP3	068981321X	968691726	The Cage	Books	4	3	6	N	N	Good but kind of simplistic	The events described in this book run a real gamut of the human emotions, which is why I was kind of disappointed that they weren't really presented in a more descriptive or compelling way.  Like other reviewers have pointed out, there isn't much suspense or description of life outside of the little world Riva and her brothers live in, and it is repetitive in spots.  The chapters where Riva is allowed to be transported to a civilian hospital for several surgeries on her blood-poisoned finger, for example, just aren't as gripping and interesting as they could have been had there been more descriptive language.  Obviously this was a very rare occurrence indeed, and the camp doctor could have lost her life for even daring to approach the female commandant about the matter, but we don't really get more than a cursory description of how Riva was transported to and from the hospital and had to go to a number of them before finding one that would operate on a Jewish prisoner.  Some of the dialogue also seemed unrealistic and more like something the speaker was thinking or feeling about what was going on rather than something a normal person would have articulated in that way at that desperate time.  I hate to say this about a book about the Shoah, but it just seems too predictable and formulaic; family stays together in spite of worsening hardships, mother gets taken away, remaining siblings stay loyal to one another and refuse to be separated, family and friends are deported, protagonist survives camps and is liberated.  It's a shame, because with more complex vocabulary and greater suspense and descriptions, these unique events (such as Riva going to the hospital and allowed to write poetry in camp) could have been more powerful and haunting.	2004-08-17
US	32987921	RSWG5OFTDALOO	0553275860	909371764	Narcissus and Goldmund	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Hesse's greatest novel	This was the fourth Hesse novel I read, not counting the false start I had on 'The Glass Bead Game' (which otherwise would have been my third Hesse novel).  It contains many of Hesse's frequent themes, such as friendship, duality, a search, and esoteric wisdom.  And though it certainly wasn't really intended as such, it's also a great work of historical fiction.<br /><br />Young Goldmund is deposited at the Mariabronn cloister sometime in the 14th century, because Goldmund looks just like his mother, and his father doesn't want any reminder of her.  Goldmund's mother was very sexually free and promiscuous and therefore a pariah in their town and in that day and age.  In the beginning Goldmund is very unhappy, getting into lots of fights, only accepted by Brother Daniel and the sensitive, thoughtful, caring Narcissus.  However, before long Goldmund is getting along with the other boys and having great fun with them, even becoming accepted by the monks, priests, and friars at Mariabronn.  Due to this newfound respect, Father Anselm sends the young man off one day to get some healing herbs, and while Goldmund is gathering the St. John's Wort, he encounters a beautiful young (married) woman named Lise, with whom he has his first sexual experience.  This so changes Goldmund that he tells Narcissus he is leaving Mariabronn to be with Lise again, to follow a different path from that of his friend.  Goldmund only has one more experience with Lise when he meets her again that night, for she tells him she must go back to her husband, but Goldmund still wants to explore the outside world and experience life and women.  Thus begins his amazing journey through life and love in Medieval Germany, a sojourn which includes many lovers, narrow escapes from danger, the awakening of his interest in art, an apprenticeship with a master artist, and the Black Death.<br /><br />A key moment in Goldmund's wanderings is when he sees a woman giving birth and discovers that the look on her face at the very moment of birth is the very same expression he has seen on the faces of women at the height of sexual ecstasy.  Never before did he think there could be such a close relationship between the two extremely opposite emotions of agony and ecstasy.  The image stays in his mind, but it doesn't occur to him to put it into art until he sees a beautiful Madonna in a church where he is confessing, a Madonna done by Master Niklaus.  He not only wants to capture the image on the face of the woman giving birth but also to create a perfect image of beauty, a representation of the feminine and maternal ideal, to last for all time, particularly because he lost his own mother.  It is said that every artist who makes a Madonna makes it in the image of what he believes to be the ultimate image of feminine beauty, and Goldmund hopes to recapture his lost mother in his work as well as that of all of the women he's loved.  As he asks Narcissus, who never even knew his own mother, how can he love, how will he die when his time is up, without a mother?  Despite how opposite the two old friends are, these words leave a poweful and lasting impact on him.face at the very moment of birth is the very same expression he has seen on the faces of women at the height of sexual ecstasy.  Never before did he think there could be such a close relationship between the two extremely opposite emotions of agony and ecstasy.  The image stays in his mind, but it doesn't occur to him to put it into art until he sees a beautiful Madonna in a church where he is confessing, a Madonna done by Master Niklaus.  He not only wants to capture the image on the face of the woman giving birth but also to create a perfect image of beauty, a representation of the feminine and maternal ideal, to last for all time, particularly because he lost his own mother.  It is said that every artist who makes a Madonna makes it in the image of what he believes to be the ultimate image of feminine beauty, and Goldmund hopes to recapture his lost mother in his work as well as that of all of the women he's loved.  As he asks Narcissus, who never even knew his own mother, how can he love, how will he die when his time is up, without a mother?  Despite how opposite the two old friends are, these words leave a poweful and lasting impact on him.	2004-08-16
US	32987921	R19RX8T6EGJTQ0	0916694003	257536517	Gates of Prayer: The New Union Prayer Book (Weekends, Sabbaths, and Festivals)	Books	4	22	28	N	N	Dated feel-good mistranslations	I no longer affiliate with the Reform Movement, but putting personal beliefs aside, this is a pretty standard Reform siddur, all of the important liturgy included (though after experiencing more traditional services I found out just how much liturgy is missing from this book!), a lot of great songs to choose from in the back, much more Hebrew than the Union prayerbook which was in usage before this, and a great selection of quotes from Pirkey Avot in the beginning.  The reason I no longer think as highly of this siddur as I used to is because of all of the mistranslations (as well as a horrible cut and paste job of the Aleynu; for my first two years after my conversion I had no idea how long the Aleynu actually is and had a very hard time getting all of the words in the authentic unaltered prayer right!).<br /><br />I don't have any problem with creative translations; some things even sound more poetic in such a translation over how they sounded in the original, or sometimes it's done to make them rhyme in translation also, if it's a poem or song.  But the mistranslations here go beyond that.  The best example of this is on page 256, \\"Praised is the God whose gift is life, whose cleansing rains let parched men and women flower toward the sun.\\"  The Hebrew actually says \\"Praised is the God whose gift is life, who grants eternal life to the dead.\\"  That's probably the only instance in this entire siddur where the Hebrew word meytim is used in that prayer instead of hakol (which means \\"the world\\").  Resurrection of the dead isn't part of Reform doctrine, so maybe the original Hebrew made them uncomfortable.  A lot of similar mistranslations, which are worlds away from what is being said in the Hebrew, are really lovely sentiments, but they should be in a section devoted to an alternate service or alternative readings, not as pretended translations of things which are worlds away from this lovey-dovey \\"We are all one\\" stuff.<br /><br />It was a good prayerbook for the era when it came out, but today it just reads like the creation of a bunch of flower children and makes it so obvious it came out in the Seventies.  A good prayerbook should be for all time, not an embarrassing reminder of a bygone era.ra when it came out, but today it just reads like the creation of a bunch of flower children and makes it so obvious it came out in the Seventies.  A good prayerbook should be for all time, not an embarrassing reminder of a bygone era.	2004-08-15
US	32987921	RKCWRHHSWM28G	0822952734	50218422	Out of This Furnace: A Novel of Immigrant Labor in America	Books	5	18	21	N	N	Underrepresented immigrant group	Most people are familiar with the experiences in America of immigrants who were Irish, Italian, German, Polish, Russian, Swedish, and a few other groups, but you don't hear much of anything about the Slovakians who came to America.  I was supposed to have read this book for a research paper my eighth grade social studies class was doing on our various immigrant ancestors, and while I got an A++ on that paper and much praise from the teacher, I abandoned the book before long.  I was upset I couldn't do a paper on my more \\"interesting\\" ancestors from Germany, Italy, and Holland, instead of some group I didn't really care about, a group no one else would be doing.  I recently finally read the book cover to cover and am really sorry I was so hasty in abandoning it before and how much of a brat I was about doing a paper on my ancestors.  I grew misty-eyed at the parts where the mill bosses and even priests and ministers are insulting the Slovakians in nasty and slurring language, even preaching hatred and violence from the pulpit.  They were treated like animals because they dared to want humane treatment and equal rights.  I have always heard and used the word \\"Hunky\\" as a fond term of endearment in my family, not a harsh slur word and racial epithet.  Altogether it's a very emotionally moving and real story, about how each generation improves upon the last, until finally the mills are unionised; we know the fourth generation will be just fine.  The only complaint I have about the book is that it ends before Dobie and Julie have their baby; I wanted to find out if they had a boy or a girl!	2004-08-15
US	32987921	R28HY9SQ8YAQ84	0415161363	181949244	Colloquial Czech: The Complete Course for Beginners (Book & C.D's)	Books	5	32	35	N	N	Important Western Slavic language	I got this book (no cassettes or CDs came with mine) for a half-semester course I took on Czech history and culture; those of us who wanted stayed behind after class with our professor to learn some Czech.  He didn't assign any book for those of us who were interested in the optional language part, but this was the only book on Czech I could find at the off-campus textbook store.  As a native speaker, the professor thought it was really good.  Of course it doesn't have the most comprehensive dictionary in the back, but that's to be expected with any teach yourself language book.  You have to go out and get a real Czech-English dictionary if you're inspired enough to keep learning.<br /><br />Czech isn't an easy language, but I found it easier than many would, already being familiar with the Russian language.  Czech is a Western Slavic tongue and Russian is Eastern, but they're maybe about 75% similar, with some regional changes (for example, many words starting in G in Russian are exactly or nearly the same in Czech, only they start in H, such as hrad/grad [castle]).  And even though the accent marks over the consonants can give some people a hard time at first, at least Czech is written in the Roman alphabet.  And as the professor told me, it's 98-99% similar to Slovakian, my paternal grandpap's native language, so learning Czech meant I could talk to him and understand most of what he said.  Since it's so hard to find a good dictionary or instructional volume on the Slovakian language, this book on Czech is a real bargain.	2004-08-13
US	32987921	R1SY6DQU7NMHYG	0451523261	748295604	War and Peace (Signet Classics)	Books	5	7	10	N	N	It was great until the last 40 pages	There are many books that one is led to believe are great books and classics beyond reproach even before one has actually read those books.  This is one of those books that manages to live up to the hype, whose reputation as an undisputed classic is well-earned instead of just being something that generations have been indoctrinated into believing is great without any real supporting evidence.  I'm sorry it took me so long to finally read it, but whatever your age when you read it, it's still one of those books that makes you grown-up, at least intellectually, and when you finish reading it, you finally understand why so many other people have been singing its praises for so long.  I was left too exhausted to read much of anything for some time after the 19 days I spent reading it, it was that much of an investment of time and emotion.  It is THE book among books, simply put.<br /><br />This novel emcompasses so many different characters and storylines it's really hard to summarise it neatly and tersely.  It truly lives up to the title, though I personally liked the parts set in peacetime or at the homefront during wartime over the battle scenes.  Yet for all the characters we're presented with to digest, the great majority of them are aristocrats or of the Royal Family, being princes, princesses, counts, countesses, and other titled people.  They are also more French than Russian, which is surprising given the level of hostility towards Napoleon and the French; it only becomes dangerous and illegal in 1812 to be caught speaking French.  Many of these people speak French easier and more fluently than they speak Russian, though they firmly consider themselves Russian and are very patriotric towards their nation's side in the Napoleonic wars.  My favourite character was Pierre all of the way; you can just picture this comical figure with his huge red hands, increasingly stouter body, spectacles, waddling walk, incredibly tall, long hair, a very hot temper, unafraid to speak his mind no matter whose company he's in, and horrible social graces.  This book is so well-written that I really felt strongly for all of the major characters, whether I loved or hated them, whether I liked their actions or despised them; the characters are that incredibly real.  As much as I loved Pierre, I despised the old Prince Bolkonskiy, and barely thought better of his overly religious and forgiving daughter Mariya and Pierre's annoying and smug wife Helene.  I was hoping that the old Prince would lose the few marbles he had left and ride off to war when Napoleon invaded in 1812 and die in battle, I hated him so much.<br /><br />The book was going great, with only a few less-interesting moments (like the hunting chapters), but what ruined my formerly totally uninterupted enjoyment was Part II of the Epilogue.  (Just like in AK, the final two parts of this book would have made more sense and been a more appropriate end had they been switched around too.)  Tolstoy rambles on and on about God knows what; I soon lost track of what he was going on about.  It was by far the longest and most boring part of the book for me; it was like he didn't know when to call it quits.  It had nothing to do with anything that had happened in the previous 1400+ pages; at least the chapters that had discussed the course of history, why so and so won a certain battle, or why that battle was fought in the first place actually were relevant, since they were about the historical figures in the book.  It contributes nothing to the novel, and takes away its formerly unsullied brilliance.  And a lot of Tolstoy's theories about history are now just plain dated; the social science of history has come a long way since 1869.  Evolution is now an accepted scientific fact instead of a brand-new theory that most people didn't believe, and well-off white Christian men no longer own history as they did in 1869.  I'm going to skip that whole section when I reread it.  Still, in spite of thefinal 40 pages, the book has well earned its stellar reputation.f the final 40 pages, the book has well earned its stellar reputation.	2004-08-12
US	32987921	R2DPFQRI2CCS29	0140369090	550703106	Anna Is Still Here	Books	5	2	3	N	N	What happened after 'Hide and Seek' ended	Though there are different characters and plotlines, this book easily could have been the sequel to 'Hide and Seek.'  The Markus family have survived by being in hiding and, once the War ended, wanted to stay in their home country of Holland.  Thirteen year old Anna spent the War in hiding in the attic room of Daniel De Bree, who gives trumpet lessons, while her parents hid under the ground in a forest.  The three of them are deeply affected by what they went through; Anna knows enough to know that Marga, her best friend, died in a concentration-camp, along with many of her relatives and other friends, but doesn't know all of the details she wants to know, and her parents refuse to provide any.  They won't even tell her where they were during the War.  Her father Simon is the more wound-up of her parents; for a very long time he won't let her display a picture of Marga they still have, since he doesn't want to see pictures of murdered people.  He also yells a lot, since they haven't been a family in so long he isn't used to anything but being angry, tense, and suspicious.  And both of them are angry and upset over Anna's new friendship with a German woman who lives near them, Frau Neumann, thinking that because of her German name she must be a Nazi.  At first Anna thought so too, but soon found out Frau Neumann was also Jewish, and was so drawn to her because she looked exactly like her little daughter Fannie, right down to the birthmark on her forehead.<br /><br />Because her parents are unable and unwilling to talk, Anna goes to Frau Neumann to talk about the War, being in hiding, missing people who are no longer there, the things they have to put up with from people who cannot fathom what they had to go through since they weren't there.  She has a very quiet voice from being in hiding, since she barely spoke at all when Mr. De Bree was hiding her, and has been put into the fifth grade despite her age, due to the years of school she missed while in hiding.  She can't even answer most of the questions the other students ask her, and she doesn't like to talk about it even if she does know.  And even though Holland was one of the relatively friendly and safe places during WWII (there were more people willing to hide Jews and to be in the underground and Resistance than in a place like Poland or Hungary), there are still painful echoes of anti-Semitism to be dealt with.<br /><br />Some people might find the ending unrealistic and contrived, but it's not like that sort of thing never happened in real life.  There are enough sad real-life stories where no happy reunions between separated family members took place; why not have a happy ending when you're working with fictional characters, the kind of happy ending that too often didn't happen in real life?can't even answer most of the questions the other students ask her, and she doesn't like to talk about it even if she does know.  And even though Holland was one of the relatively friendly and safe places during WWII (there were more people willing to hide Jews and to be in the underground and Resistance than in a place like Poland or Hungary), there are still painful echoes of anti-Semitism to be dealt with. <br /> <br />Some people might find the ending unrealistic and contrived, but it's not like that sort of thing never happened in real life.  There are enough sad real-life stories where no happy reunions between separated family members took place; why not have a happy ending when you're working with fictional characters, the kind of happy ending that too often didn't happen in real life?	2004-08-08
US	32987921	RAVZRDKHRJBER	0060931914	126399491	Demian (Perennial Classics)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Do You Bear the Mark of Cain?	This is my all-time favourite book, and the first book I ever read by Hesse.  I found it in a box of my parents' old books when I was fourteen, thought it looked interesting, and was instantly drawn in.  Two of my favourite Hesse quotes also come from this book--Pistorius's comment \\"If you hate a person, you hate something in him [or her] that is a part of yourself. What is part of ourselves doesn't disturb us\\" and Max Demian's comment about the Biblical Cain, \\"People with courage and character always seem sinister to the rest.\\"<br /><br />This is the story of two young men coming of age in pre-WWI Germany.  Emil Sinclair (which was the pseudonym under which Hesse originally published this book), age ten, has been having a lot of trouble with local bully Franz Kromer.  He, Kromer, and two other boys were hanging out together and Sinclair said something he shouldn't have, just to try to impress the others.  It turns out that what Sinclair thought was a lie actually happened, and because he swore repeatedly, even through the grace of God and all that was holy, that he and a friend had stolen some apples from a nearby orchard, he now is beholden to Kromer to not inform on him to the miller whose apples were stolen.  The miller's reward was two marks, money which Sinclair can't come up with, so he is forced to become Kromer's slave more or less until Demian comes to the rescue.  Demian and Sinclair have a very deep discussion, and then Demian finds Kromer and has a similar talk with him.  It must have worked, for Kromer never bothers Sinclair again.<br /><br />Demian is a very mysterious boy, about two years older than Sinclair, and along with his widowed mother the subject of much local gossip.  They don't go to church, for starts, which makes people wonder what religion they are; people also speculate they may be lovers.  But Sinclair isn't frightened of him and his mystical powers, and the two become close friends.  Demian opens his mind to new ways of looking at religion, even after Sinclair has gone away to prep school.  Why, for example, isn't the duality of the Divine taught in their church school?  Why should one only celebrate the positive and socially acceptable things one associates with God instead of the negative things associated with the Devil, like wine and sex?  Demian says that the Greeks had a religion celebrating those things, and that evil as well as good comes from God.  This ties in with the information Sinclair later learns from Demian and his friend Pistorius about Abraxas, who is half God and half Devil.<br /><br />Sinclair has a rough time at prep school, but all works out in the end, and when he goes to a university, he finds his old friend Demian in town.  Demian takes Sinclair to meet his mother Eva, and finally Sinclair understands what Demian told him during their first meeting, about bearing the mark of Cain.  Demian, Sinclair, Frau Eva, and everyone in their circle of friends bear it.  As Demian said in the beginning, perhaps it's not the cut and dried story of good and evil we're taught it is; perhaps Abel was an overly pious wimp and conformist who never questioned anything, and Cain (not to excuse him for murdering his brother) had the guts to stand up for his beliefs, the one who dared to go against the accepted grain.  People stayed away from him and his descendants not because they all had a divine mark on them, but because the mark represented independent thinking, a free spirit, nonconformity, character, courage, something who's different from the crowd, someone special.  People fear what they don't know or understand, and even for the bearer it sometimes takes a struggle to come to terms with having it.  Demian and his mother knew Sinclair had it, but Sinclair himself had to go through everything he did in prep school to finally accept himself for who he was, someone who is not like everyone else.religion, even after Sinclair has gone away to prep school.  Why, for example, isn't the duality of the Divine taught in their church school?  Why should one only celebrate the positive and socially acceptable things one associates with God instead of the negative things associated with the Devil, like wine and sex?  Demian says that the Greeks had a religion celebrating those things, and that evil as well as good comes from God.  This ties in with the information Sinclair later learns from Demian and his friend Pistorius about Abraxas, who is half God and half Devil. <br /> <br />Sinclair has a rough time at prep school, but all works out in the end, and when he goes to a university, he finds his old friend Demian in town.  Demian takes Sinclair to meet his mother Eva, and finally Sinclair understands what Demian told him during their first meeting, about bearing the mark of Cain.  Demian, Sinclair, Frau Eva, and everyone in their circle of friends bear it.  As Demian said in the beginning, perhaps it's not the cut and dried story of good and evil we're taught it is; perhaps Abel was an overly pious wimp and conformist who never questioned anything, and Cain (not to excuse him for murdering his brother) had the guts to stand up for his beliefs, the one who dared to go against the accepted grain.  People stayed away from him and his descendants not because they all had a divine mark on them, but because the mark represented independent thinking, a free spirit, nonconformity, character, courage, something who's different from the crowd, someone special.  People fear what they don't know or understand, and even for the bearer it sometimes takes a struggle to come to terms with having it.  Demian and his mother knew Sinclair had it, but Sinclair himself had to go through everything he did in prep school to finally accept himself for who he was, someone who is not like everyone else.	2004-08-08
US	32987921	RSDNWR5I759NM	0312278675	857469136	Steppenwolf: A Novel	Books	5	6	7	N	N	The book that's most changed my life	This may be a challenging novel for some people because of the narration shifts, no chapters, the boring beginning, and most of all the driving theme, but it's smooth sailing after you've gotten past about the first third of the book.  The narration starts out from the pov of an unnamed young man from whose aunt Harry is renting out a room, and one day he begins looking over Harry's books and eventually finds a mystifying \\"Treatise on the Steppenwolf.\\"  This sets the background for who exactly Harry is and what kinds of ideas are going through his head.<br /><br />The early part of the book is boring because Harry himself is a bore.  Harry needs to learn to lighten up, stop taking everything so seriously, enjoy life, not pick fights so easily, and most of all just learn how to smile, laugh, dance.  He keeps to himself and drives away the few friends he finds in the town he is staying in the very night he's invited over to their house for dinner.  An old friend of Harry's, who is a professor, begins ranting about a recent anti-war article in the newspaper.  The man who wrote this article also has the surname Haller, and as Harry is getting angrier and angrier with the professor's tirade (since Harry was also anti-war), he finally lies that he wrote the article, just as an excuse to get out of their house.  He was also set off earlier in the evening by a picture of Goethe in their house, since Harry's hero is depicted in a lightweight and romantic way, not as some stiff and humourless intellectual.  That bridge burned, he heads off to a local tavern called the Black Eagle, where he meets a mysterious woman named Hermine, who takes him under her wing, along the way introducing him to her equally mysterious friends Pablo and Maria.  Thus begins Harry's journey towards getting a life and learning how to have fun, with the culmination being his amazing experience in the Magic Theatre.<br /><br />This book was deeply influenced by Hesse's psychotherapy sessions with Carl Jung, and came out in 1927, when Freudianism was all the rage.  The very theme of the book, of a man trying to harness his humanlike and wolflike attributes into one coherent and sane whole, is very similar to Freud's theories about the conflict raging between the id, ego, and superego, as well as the theory about the reptilian part of the human brain.  A lot of the scenes, esp. in the Magic Theatre, read like something that came out of a drug experience or LSD hallucination, but in this case it seems to have come from the strange but true world of the little-explored reaches of the human brain and the human mind.  There's a Steppenwolf in all of us.Carl Jung, and came out in 1927, when Freudianism was all the rage.  The very theme of the book, of a man trying to harness his humanlike and wolflike attributes into one coherent and sane whole, is very similar to Freud's theories about the conflict raging between the id, ego, and superego, as well as the theory about the reptilian part of the human brain.  A lot of the scenes, esp. in the Magic Theatre, read like something that came out of a drug experience or LSD hallucination, but in this case it seems to have come from the strange but true world of the little-explored reaches of the human brain and the human mind.  There's a Steppenwolf in all of us.	2004-08-08
US	32987921	R1KWPDGCRTTGO8	0881254126	289785966	Ordained to Be a Jew: A Catholic Priest's Conversion to Judaism	Books	4	13	18	N	N	Heartfelt but somewhat dated	This is a quick and easy read, and it's obvious that Mr. Scalamonti's spiritual journey and the doubts he had about his faith of origin were very sincere, genuine, and heartfelt.  His love for first Catholicism and later Judaism were really evident.  John's love of his first religion went way back; when he was a small boy he often played being a priest, leading Mass, and giving Communion.  Basically as far as he could remember he wanted to be a priest, so much so he secretly wrote to a priest at a junior seminary about this wish and how his mother didn't approve.  The priest visited the house and eventually swayed John's mother to let him go, at 14 years old.  Even though many Catholic families in this time in history wanted at least one son to be a priest, Mrs. Scalamonti didn't want John, her firstborn, to be the one to do that.  After leaving for the junior seminary, John spent the rest of his adolescence and his early adulthood in strict and highly-regimented training and living conditions, going from junior seminary to the adult-level seminary and then on to his novitiate and finally becoming ordained as a priest at long last.  It's the happiest day of his life when he celebrates his first Mass, but before long his life's obsession begins to disappoint him and he runs into all sorts of trouble with the higher-ups.<br /><br />This is the primary reason why the book is dated; John became a priest in the early days of Vatican II, and was really excited over the sweeping changes it brought, but the higher-ups didn't feel the same way.  He was happily running a mission catering to the dregs of society, hippies, broken families, people marginalised by the Church, but the priests in charge were very uncomfortable with that kind of element.  John also didn't like how he had taken a vow of poverty yet he and his brother priests were living like kings in a huge old mansion, and how they hadn't been allowed to read any non-Christian theology while in seminary, or even Catholic writings that disagreed with Church policy.  Because of this unpriestlike behaviour, they sent him off to take college classes in Washington, DC, hoping this would whip him back into shape.  The questions and doubts remained, though, and because they wouldn't grant him a sabbatical, he had no other choice but to leave the priesthood, after which he became adjusted to working in the real world, met a Jewish girl, and converted.<br /><br />Nowadays all of John's questions would have been answered and dealt with; there are still some problems in the Church, but certainly not the same type there were back then.  Nowadays he would be allowed to study different religions, run a mission catering to the type of people he had been working with without muttering and outrage from the other priests, and probably wouldn't have been living in a mansion and living like a king during his training and after his ordination.  And junior seminaries no longer exist; nowadays young people who want to become nuns or priests are encouraged to go to college and experience the world first, not cut off all ties with things secular at age fourteen.  It was a genuine and sincere account, but had he become a priest twenty or thirty years after he did, he probably would not have left the priesthood.atholic writings that disagreed with Church policy.  Because of this unpriestlike behaviour, they sent him off to take college classes in Washington, DC, hoping this would whip him back into shape.  The questions and doubts remained, though, and because they wouldn't grant him a sabbatical, he had no other choice but to leave the priesthood, after which he became adjusted to working in the real world, met a Jewish girl, and converted. <br /> <br />Nowadays all of John's questions would have been answered and dealt with; there are still some problems in the Church, but certainly not the same type there were back then.  Nowadays he would be allowed to study different religions, run a mission catering to the type of people he had been working with without muttering and outrage from the other priests, and probably wouldn't have been living in a mansion and living like a king during his training and after his ordination.  And junior seminaries no longer exist; nowadays young people who want to become nuns or priests are encouraged to go to college and experience the world first, not cut off all ties with things secular at age fourteen.  It was a genuine and sincere account, but had he become a priest twenty or thirty years after he did, he probably would not have left the priesthood.	2004-08-04
US	32987921	R3N0FJS5V1P6GT	0553274503	571684273	Flowers for Algernon (Bantam Classic)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Haunting and emotionally moving	I was introduced to this story by means of the long short story version of it, which was the first thing my seventh grade English class (which we had at an eighth grade honours level) read.  I really really liked it, and was really excited when the teacher told us that there was a much longer version of this story out there, a book, with stuff that wasn't covered in the short story, like Charlie's sister Norma, his childhood, and his mother.  I read the book version in June of 1995, a bit over two and a half years later.  It was just as good as the short story, and even better, because of all of the extra details.<br /><br />Even though Charlie is retarded mentally, psychologically, and emotionally, his heart isn't retarded.  He knows he isn't that smart, but is a really kind person, and wants very much to learn and to become smarter.  When he is first introduced to little Algernon, a mouse who had an operation which made him smarter, he is very frustrated that even a mouse could be smarter and more intelligent than he is, but with the support of his teacher Alice, he doesn't give up hope.  He has the operation, and slowly starts becoming smarter.  It isn't full-blown, though; in the early days he sometimes gets carried away with his newfound knowledge, like when he goes crazy with punctuation when he first learns about it, using it all over the place even when it's not correct.  And as he gets more and more smarts and intelligence, he also becomes aware of how his co-workers at the bakery weren't laughing with him when they went out to dinner and dancing before, they were laughing at him, making a fool of him, and encouraging other people to ridicule him and to laugh at him.  He finds out who his real friends are, though as he continues to get smarter and smarter still, even his old real friends, like Alice, begin to distance themselves from him, since he's become too smart for them as well.  This starts to change when Algernon's intelligence begins a steady downward spiral, and Charlie is afraid the same thing will happen to him.  The results are heartbreaking.ward spiral, and Charlie is afraid the same thing will happen to him.  The results are heartbreaking.	2004-08-03
US	32987921	R15WWTWJAT7EWQ	0807404527	851127605	If I'm Jewish and You're Christian, What Are the Kids?: A Parenting Guide for Interfaith Families	Books	4	7	10	N	N	Superficial overview	This book was okay, though a bit superficial and not as in-depth as I would hope a book on this subject would be. I also didn't like how the two families were composites of many different families whom the author had interviewed, just for the sake of simplicity.<br /><br /> Apparently the truth contained in these pages, regardless of how it wasn't as in-depth as it could've been, offends people in interfaith marriages who want to raise their kids as &quot;both&quot; instead of picking just one religion. The two boys who were being raised Jewish seemed more secure and happy in their religious identity than the three kids who were being raised &quot;both.&quot; Those kids felt more conflicted and angry, and confused over which religion they truly were a part of, which they ought to choose, why they weren't doing more in either religion, why they couldn't have just one religion like their cousins did. The oldest, Hannah, felt this especially keenly; she wanted a place to call home, comforting religious rituals that united the family instead of divided them, the type of religion she could turn to when the going got tough, instead of her parents trying to be two religions at once and in the process seriously dumbing down both. I wasn't raised in any religion, though my parents were both Christians, and I felt the same way she did; how come all of the other kids get religious holidays, memories, and coming of age ceremonies?<br /><br /> The librarian on duty when I checked this book out said she was in an interfaith marriage, and that she couldn't wait for me to return it so she could immediately check it out herself. The information in here may be more of a superficial overview than a real in-depth discussion, but it gets the point across well, as evidenced by how strongly some people feel over reading the advice to pick just one religion.	2004-08-03
US	32987921	R1PEWW2Y3HBO58	0395727766	161663382	Strangers to the Tribe: Portraits of Interfaith Marriage	Books	5	2	5	N	N	Interesting stories of the children of interfaith marriages	This book is really unique and interesting because, of the stories included, not all of them are the standard stories of interfaith marriage, with the kids being raised exclusively Jewish.  Some of the non-Jewish partners have converted, some haven't.  One couple even were raising their daughter Catholic (the mom's faith) and their son Jewish (the dad's religion), which is a really unusual approach (and not one that should be recommended; it was obvious that the couple were having problems sticking to this out-of-the-ordinary system).  I also liked the story of the Hawaiian couple, with the Chinese father and the Jewish mother (who had had problems conceiving their two kids), who were celebrating their daughter's bat mitzvah.  You don't hear too much about the Jews of Hawaii; it's very rare to find someone in Hawaii who is a haole (Caucausian) instead of Native Hawaiian, Chinese, Japanese, or some mix of the various races that live on or have immigrated to Hawaii.  The story of the Japanese mother and Jewish father was also nice; rarely in a collection of stories like this do you see accounts of the Jewish partner marrying someone who isn't White and Christian.  For me the saddest story was the Jewish man who had converted to Lutheranism and was raising his kids as Lutherans.  With such a huge rate of intermarriage and assimilation, it's always sad to see someone converting away, denying their ancestry, and contributing even further to the dwindling American Jewish population.  (Although according to Jewish law one is considered an apostate, since according to halacha one cannot convert out of Judaism.)  The story of how the author rediscovered her family's Jewish roots and underwent her own conversion was also a high point of those unique collection of stories.	2004-08-03
US	32987921	R3G93PT027EYG2	0380633132	677758129	We	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Chilling and underrated dystopia	This little-known and stream-of-consciousness dystopia is actually called 'Yedinoye Gosudarstvo' in the original Russian (which can be translated as 'One State,' 'Single State,' or 'United State'). Calling it 'We' is more eye-catching and more fully gets across what all the book's about. This book is also very similar to 'Brave New World'; I wrote a paper in my Modern Russian Lit class, when we read this book, about those similarities.<br /><br /> The book is told in the form of D-503's notes, notes he originally began taking on government orders to write or create something celebrating OneState once his precious creation, the spaceship INTEGRAL, blasts off into space and colonises other worlds and brainwashes them with their own brand of totalitarianism and forced conformity. Since he is a mathematician, he intends it to be a mathematical poem, until he meets I-330. Up till then, he had been in love with the sweet O-90 (who looks like her name, a round little O-shaped woman who still has baby fat on her), whom he and his best friend R-13 have been sexually sharing for at least three years, though O-90 doesn't feel any love for R-13 when they're together. At first he is repelled and horrified by I-330's nonconformist ways, like wearing forbidden clothing, smoking, drinking, lying to authorities, hanging out in the Ancient House a lot, going behind the Green Wall (which is like the &quot;savage reservation&quot; in BNW), and being very sexually liberated. As time goes on she gets to him more and more, though he never stops supporting OneState and the Benefactor. He even starts to go along with her plan to lock up the factory workers when they're at lunch so they can use the INTEGRAL for good instead of evil, and begins to have dreams and an imagination, things which had been stamped out for hundreds of years. D-503 also resists getting a new imagination-removing operation done on the day that everyone was supposed to get it done.<br /><br /> This is probably the most un-Russian Russian book I can think of; there is no mention of where they are in Russia, obviously no one has Russian names or any names at all apart from numbers and letters (women have vowels, men have consonants), there's no Russian food, history, or culture mentioned, nothing which would tell the reader that this was a Russian novel apart from the writer's name and the original language. The closest we get to Russian aspects are the old woman who guards the Ancient House and U, the guardian of D-503's house and who has a bizarre, laughable, and decidedly nonmutual crush on him; one might say they are like stereotypical old Russian grandmother-figures. There is also a bust of Pushkin in the Ancient House and a brief discussion on him. And it doesn't really matter where this takes place; there is no identifying national culture here because individuality has been crushed and the masses have surrendered to a collective state which controls every single part of one's life, right down to how many bites to take when chewing a morsel of food or what one has to do at nearly every single second of the day.he most un-Russian Russian book I can think of; there is no mention of where they are in Russia, obviously no one has Russian names or any names at all apart from numbers and letters (women have vowels, men have consonants), there's no Russian food, history, or culture mentioned, nothing which would tell the reader that this was a Russian novel apart from the writer's name and the original language. The closest we get to Russian aspects are the old woman who guards the Ancient House and U, the guardian of D-503's house and who has a bizarre, laughable, and decidedly nonmutual crush on him; one might say they are like stereotypical old Russian grandmother-figures. There is also a bust of Pushkin in the Ancient House and a brief discussion on him. And it doesn't really matter where this takes place; there is no identifying national culture here because individuality has been crushed and the masses have surrendered to a collective state which controls every single part of one's life, right down to how many bites to take when chewing a morsel of food or what one has to do at nearly every single second of the day.	2004-08-02
US	32987921	R6BR403QGKZXC	0679760806	778351106	The Master and Margarita	Books	5	11	13	N	N	A very un-Russian Russian novel!	Unfortunately, the translation I have is the terrible Michael Glenny one, the one that was stocked in the campus bookstore when I got this book for a Modern Russian Lit class. It has numerous typos, some &quot;translations&quot; of proper names (Richardovna instead of Rikhardovna, George instead of Georgiy, Claudia instead of Klavdiya), and misleading transliteration. I'm sure the book will be even better in the more updated translations.<br /><br /> Most Russian novels are long, dark, and depressing, but this book is only a bit over 500 pages, and instead of being sad and pessimistic, is lively and funny. The Devil and a hilarious retinue of friends decide to pay a visit to Moskv&aacute; (according to the back of my edition, it's 1920), and immediately begin to wreak havoc everywhere they go and to cause weird and unexplainable things to happen, many of which get people in serious enough trouble to get arrested, turn into vampires, or be sent to the insane asylum. He first appears by Patriarch's Pond, where the writers Misha Berlioz and Ivan Bezdomniy (lit. &quot;homeless&quot;) are discussing why the latter's anti-religion poem isn't acceptable, since despite deriding religion, it treats the things in the Bible as though they really happened. Berlioz is telling his friend just why they didn't when the Devil (called Woland) comes up and starts to tell them they're both wrong, and he knows, since he was there at the Crucifixion. Based on all of the weird stuff he's saying, they believe he is insane (they already know he's a foreign visitor) and decide to secretly call the asylum on him. But the Devil turns the tables on them, and right away everyone thinks Bezdomniy is the nut. The Devil also predicted the gruesome demise of Berlioz, and no one believes Bezdomniy's explanations for what really happened. He is quickly taken to the insane asylum, while the Devil and his friends move into Berlioz's old apartment just like he predicted they would. In his retinue are Azazello (who has red hair, a huge fang, and a walleye), Hella, a naked female vampire serving as his maid, Koroviyev-Faggot (pr. Fah-GOAT, not the other way), his interpreter, who has a broken pince-nez and wears checkered clothing, and my favourite, a hilarious huge black cat named Behemoth. Behemoth talks, drinks alcohol, plays tricks on people, smokes cigars, wears a tuxedo and bowtie, plays chess, walks upright, gilds his whiskers, and shoots a Browning perfectly. His antics often annoy the others, but he's annoying in a funny and endearing way.<br /><br /> The story from whence the title comes doesn't start until Part Two. An unnamed Master wrote a book about the Passion and Pontius Pilate, a story which is being told throughout the book, and it not only offended the censors, it also drastically went against everything in the Bible. In depression, he burned all copies of his book but for one chapter which his mistress Margarita pulled out of the fire. The Master is now in the same insane asylum as Bezdomniy and the other people who have been sent there since the Devil came to town, and despairs of ever getting out or seeing Margarita again. Margarita in turn loves him so much she is willing to sell her soul to the Devil and his friends just to free him, not even caring what getting in league with these people may entail.<br /><br /> Besides the hilarious main story, I also liked the Master's retelling of the Passion. Like Berlioz and Woland were saying in the beginning, people only take the Bible's word for it because we have no other version of those events to go by. People don't even bother to critically examine what other people tell us, don't want to find out if it's truth, lies, reality, unreality, myth, or historical fact. Who's to say that the Master's version is any more accurate or inaccurate than the Biblical version and Pontius wasn't a sympathetic figure, Jesus wasn't a confused vagabond and coward, there was no Resurrection, or that any of the otherpeople in events in this unique retelling did or didn't happen?r people in events in this unique retelling did or didn't happen?	2004-08-02
US	32987921	R36225XT4JZOS9	0446365386	716836572	Gone with the Wind	Books	5	13	26	N	N	Would be perfect if it weren't for the racism	(4.5 stars, actually)<br /><br /> I've never seen the movie all of the way through; every time it's been on I've either tuned in after it started or had to eat dinner, go to bed, or something that necessitated my having to interrupt my viewing of it. Reading the book finally got across the story in one piece. I normally dislike what Hollywood does to books adapted for the screen, but after reading the book, I agree that this is one of the few exceptions. And if you liked the movie, the book will be even better because of all of the characters and events left out (such as Scarlett's older two children Wade and Ella). One thing the movie was right to leave out, however, was the stomach-churning racism.<br /><br /> I have no problem with an author having characters spout viewpoints that are racist (sexist, anti-Semitic, homophobic, etc.), but here those viewpoints aren't just limited to their dialogues and inner thoughts. There are a LOT of editorial commentaries on, for example, how wonderful slavery was, how the only good slave is one that was happy to be a slave, and all of the old stereotypes about African-Americans (sexual predators, lazy, childlike, superstitious, easily frightened, snoops, liars, thieves, you name it). The word &quot;Negro&quot; is never even capitalised, and many times the other n word is used to refer to them, as in &quot;a niggery smell&quot; and &quot;trashy free-issue niggers.&quot; I know that in 1936 no one was saying African-American or even Black, but at least you could capitalise the word Negro or not use the word &quot;darky&quot; so often! Many of the African-American characters even call themselves and members of their own race the n word. These slaves support their white masters, hating the slaves who dare feel themselves equal to whites and who wanted to be free. There are also two anti-Semitic slights; on page 734 it says of Hugh Elsing (who is incompetent and not very smart in business) &quot;Anyone could Jew him down on prices.&quot; On page 759 Rhett asks Scarlett if she might have some Jewish &quot;blood&quot; in her as well as Irish blood because of her love of money. The real reason Scarlett hires convicts to work in her mill is because they're cheaper, easier to exploit, and less &quot;uppity&quot; than the &quot;trashy free-issue&quot; former slaves. What other book with such racism on nearly every page is still in print today?<br /><br /> Most Southerners were Crackers and white trash, not rich aristocrats like Scarlett and her friends, yet there's not one good word to be found about the Crackers. You'd think the aristocrats were in the majority and that barely any slaves were ever mistreated or had just cause to run away. They didn't even see how ironic it was that they were in the destitute position that the Crackers and slaves had been in for generations. The racism gets even more frequent and ugly in Part Two, the Reconstruction era. You'd never know that the KKK were a terrorist organisation; we're supposed to applaud these racist murderers and feel bad that the Yankees have taken over control? The only Southern state to avoid martial law was Tennessee, because they ratified the 14th Amendment. But of course, the other Southern states were too proud and angry to do that. And they got what they wanted before long; Reconstruction ended, African-Americans were effectively barred from exercising their Constitutional rights to vote for almost a hundred years, the Republicans (who were the progressive party way back when) were hounded out of town and threatened away from the polls, and the rich white men regained monopoly over the polls. The way it's written, you'd think the newly freed slaves, the Republicans, and the &quot;Scallawags&quot; were the ones going around terrorising people instead of the Democrats and the KKK! Still, the racism isn't the main point of the story, so I can overlook it to a point since the rest of the story is so great.<br /><br /> The characters in the book are even better than in the movie; here Rhett isn't some charming rake, he's downright nasty, sleazy, seedy, suspicious, like an interesting-evil villain on a soap opera, the bad guy whose motivations are interesting and not mean for the sake of meanness. He's an incredible match for Scarlett, a strong empowered woman in her day and age, not afraid to flount social conventions by going out in public pregnant or shortening the period of mourning after her husbands die, a woman who has the smarts and the guts to run her own businessess because her second husband is too soft-hearted and incompetent to run them properly himself. Ashley is also a lot better in the book; he's such a doofus in the movie, but here we can understand why Scarlett is in love with him all of these years, why he inspires such passion and devotion in this fiery woman, a woman who wouldn't have spent so much time and emotion on the wimp he's portrayed as in the movie!<br /><br /> The book does a great job at showing a Southern pov in the Civil War and Reconstruction; it would have been perfect if there hadn't been so much repugnant racist editorialising and just presented the viewpoints of these people from a vanished way of life in an unbiased way. It just looks unprofessional, besides racist, for an author to constantly inject personal opinions into the text.ers in the book are even better than in the movie; here Rhett isn't some charming rake, he's downright nasty, sleazy, seedy, suspicious, like an interesting-evil villain on a soap opera, the bad guy whose motivations are interesting and not mean for the sake of meanness. He's an incredible match for Scarlett, a strong empowered woman in her day and age, not afraid to flount social conventions by going out in public pregnant or shortening the period of mourning after her husbands die, a woman who has the smarts and the guts to run her own businessess because her second husband is too soft-hearted and incompetent to run them properly himself. Ashley is also a lot better in the book; he's such a doofus in the movie, but here we can understand why Scarlett is in love with him all of these years, why he inspires such passion and devotion in this fiery woman, a woman who wouldn't have spent so much time and emotion on the wimp he's portrayed as in the movie! <br />  <br /> The book does a great job at showing a Southern pov in the Civil War and Reconstruction; it would have been perfect if there hadn't been so much repugnant racist editorialising and just presented the viewpoints of these people from a vanished way of life in an unbiased way. It just looks unprofessional, besides racist, for an author to constantly inject personal opinions into the text.	2004-08-02
US	32987921	RYTCCAHDJZU9M	0553241605	794174842	Mila 18	Books	5	2	5	N	N	Modern-day heroes	People who complain that real names and historical figures should have been used in this book instead of making people up are missing what this book is all about.  It in no way detracts from the heroism of people like Mordekhai Anielewicz (who led the ZOB, the Zydowska Organizacja Bojowa, Jewish Fighters Organisation, and published the Ghetto's newspaper 'Against the Stream'), Janusz Korczak (the director of the orphanage), and Emanuel Ringelblum (the Ghetto's diarist).  These fictional characters are modeled after them, and because they're fictional, there's more leeway to write about them, instead of worrying over offending their heirs' estates or if it's historically accurate to write about them doing and saying things they might not have done, or being somewhere at a certain time when they weren't there.  This is why it's historical fiction, not non-fiction.  And it's just easier to work with fictional characters instead of inserting real-life historical personages in there as well.<br /><br />About half of the Jewish population of Europe who were murdered by the Nazis came from Poland; Polish Jewry fared the worst of any group in an occupied European nation.  Poland was not an enlightened Western European nation like France, Holland, Belgium, Luxembourg, Italy, Denmark, Norway, or Finland, which had a long history of tolerance and interaction with Jewish neighbours and therefore had more people who were in the underground, partisan fighting units, or who were willing to hide Jews, nor did they have a brave head of state like King Boris III of Bulgaria who refused to hand over the nation's Jews to the Nazis; though King Boris was soon afterwards found suspiciously dead, none of the Jews in Bulgaria were touched.  Poland had a long history of anti-Semitism, sectarianism, intolerance, superstition, and segregation.  Almost no one on the Aryan side was willing to help those trapped inside of the Warsaw Ghetto under increasingly worse and worse conditions, even after the deportations begin, a report on the death camps is smuggled to the outside, and the uprising begins.  When the Ghetto is set on fire on the tenth day of the uprising, the fire department only puts out the stray sparks that fly over the wall into the Aryan surroundings.  The people in the Ghetto have to look out for their own, and they pull off overthrowing the cowardly collaborators in the Big Seven, Jewish Civil Authority, and Jewish Militia, taking over the slave-labour factories within the Ghetto, creating bunkers deep underground, creating deadly weapons, taking control of the Ghetto, and eventually staging the uprising, all by themselves, with only a handful of Gentiles who are willing to help.  In the end all of the disparate forces--Socialists, Communists, religious, atheists, back-to-nature Zionists, Socialist Zionists, etc.--came together and fought and died under the same banner.  They held out longer than any of the nations conquered by the Nazis had.<br /><br />My only minor criticism is that not all of these names are spelt the way they would be in Poland (Andrei instead of Andrzej, Paul instead of Pawel, Susan instead of Zuzanna, for example), but that's really a moot point in comparison to how these people came together and put aside their differences to fight a common enemy, staged a revolt on their own, held a mighty military power at bay longer than professional armies had, dealt a devastating blow to the Nazis' theory that Jews could not fight, and how even though it ended in eventual defeat, it sent a loud and clear message that they could fight and had avenged their honour as a people, fighting under their own flag for the first time in almost two thousand years.ter the deportations begin, a report on the death camps is smuggled to the outside, and the uprising begins.  When the Ghetto is set on fire on the tenth day of the uprising, the fire department only puts out the stray sparks that fly over the wall into the Aryan surroundings.  The people in the Ghetto have to look out for their own, and they pull off overthrowing the cowardly collaborators in the Big Seven, Jewish Civil Authority, and Jewish Militia, taking over the slave-labour factories within the Ghetto, creating bunkers deep underground, creating deadly weapons, taking control of the Ghetto, and eventually staging the uprising, all by themselves, with only a handful of Gentiles who are willing to help.  In the end all of the disparate forces--Socialists, Communists, religious, atheists, back-to-nature Zionists, Socialist Zionists, etc.--came together and fought and died under the same banner.  They held out longer than any of the nations conquered by the Nazis had. <br /> <br />My only minor criticism is that not all of these names are spelt the way they would be in Poland (Andrei instead of Andrzej, Paul instead of Pawel, Susan instead of Zuzanna, for example), but that's really a moot point in comparison to how these people came together and put aside their differences to fight a common enemy, staged a revolt on their own, held a mighty military power at bay longer than professional armies had, dealt a devastating blow to the Nazis' theory that Jews could not fight, and how even though it ended in eventual defeat, it sent a loud and clear message that they could fight and had avenged their honour as a people, fighting under their own flag for the first time in almost two thousand years.	2004-08-01
US	32987921	R1VR3IEQYOMMXZ	0140369082	229313163	Hide and Seek	Books	5	5	5	N	N	First book I ever read in the present tense	I first read this book at twelve, and I believe that one of the reasons it's been so unforgettable to me is the fact that I had never read a book written in the present tense before and hadn't known a book could be written in anything but the past tense.  It inspired me to use the present tense in my own writing; in this book, the present tense coupled with the tense times and situations the Hartog family must go through makes the story more compelling, immediate, haunting, and page-turning.  A story written in the past tense tells us that everything has already happened, but in the present tense, we're living right in each new moment and don't know what might happen next.<br /><br />I didn't really take notice of this till I recently read it again for the third time, but time really does pass too quickly here; we aren't told how much time has passed between most of the events, and Rachel, who was eight years old in 1940 when the book began, is turning twelve years old in hiding when the book is only about half over.  But it only makes sense; Rachel and her little sister Esther are just young children and wouldn't have the same perception of time that an older person would.  A person who experienced these events as a teenager or adult would certainly tend to remember in detail how much time had passed after each important event and what all they were doing during the time periods that weren't written about, but a young child is more likely to remember things and people than specifics about the exact passage of time or every little thing that happened.  And Rachel sees everything through the eyes of a child, not a mature adult who would have more perspective on these events.<br /><br />Though the family is happily reunited at the end (even with Rachel and Esther's maternal grandparents), the way Ida Vos and her little sister were reunited with their parents after the war, the story doesn't end there like some childrens' books on this subject might.  The family still has to come to terms with all of the missing and dead friends and relatives, finding a new house, catching up in school, having to break out of habits they acquired while in hiding or in the camps (such as Rachel and Esther praying a Christian prayer before meals and their grandfather stealing old bread from garbage cans), and readjust to doing all of the things they were forbidden to do before, like ride bikes, go to school, walk around freely, go swimming, and go shopping whenever they want to.  Though it's for a younger audience and thus can't go into the same harrowing detail that an adult book of this nature would, it gets the story and its impact across powerfully.ill has to come to terms with all of the missing and dead friends and relatives, finding a new house, catching up in school, having to break out of habits they acquired while in hiding or in the camps (such as Rachel and Esther praying a Christian prayer before meals and their grandfather stealing old bread from garbage cans), and readjust to doing all of the things they were forbidden to do before, like ride bikes, go to school, walk around freely, go swimming, and go shopping whenever they want to.  Though it's for a younger audience and thus can't go into the same harrowing detail that an adult book of this nature would, it gets the story and its impact across powerfully.	2004-07-30
US	32987921	RH8C5YA80OF80	0553248642	709366674	The Haj	Books	5	91	103	N	N	Historical truth, not racist propaganda	It seems that a lot of people find this book racist, odious, and offensive because the title character, Haj Ibrahim, and his youngest son Ishmael (who does much of the narration) feel that their plight as ignored refugees living in squalor and violence was caused and is being exacerbated by their very own people, the Arabs, instead of blaming the Israelis for chasing them out of their homes and not letting them come back. Ibrahim wants to negotiate for peace, and has long been friends with his Jewish neighbour Gideon Asch (though their friendship hasn't exactly always been very brotherly). I suppose anything that is pro-Israel, even from an Arab viewpoint, is considered racist propaganda by people on the extreme Left. Even well-documented historical facts, like the ones set out in this novel, are shrilly shouted down as historical revisionism, racism, and \\"Zionist propaganda.\\" I found some of the things in this book unsettling too, like how crude and vulgar some of the characters were, or what they were teaching children about the Koran, saying that all non-Muslims go to Hell and that the Jewish and Christian Bibles are wrong and therefore slandering the important prophets in their pages, but that's how many people in that part of the world live and believe. It may be disturbing and unsettling, but it's accurate. Ishmael and Ibrahim are proud of being part of this culture, a culture which brought the world 'One Thousand and One Nights,' which kept knowledge alive when Europe was in the Dark Ages, which used to be so proud, rich, and vibrant. Sadly, by the time they came on the scene, a corrupt leadership had been exploiting their own people for centuries, twisting their religion around, keeping their subjects in abject poverty while they lived like kings in lavish surroundings. Ibrahim may be crude, vulgar, sexist, and violent, but he's the most enlightened and progressive leader by their standards, their best hope for peace. And the predictions that Ibrahim and Ishmael make have come true; their culture has become even more violent, stagnated, and desperate.<br /><br /> While Gideon and his people are living well in Kibbutz Shemesh, across the way in Tabah, the village of which Ibrahim is the muktar, the people are living in quite a different world. There are no trees, flowers, grass, toys, electricity, running water, women in leadership positions, playgrounds, or proper schools. Many of the people don't even know how to read or write. But Ishmael wants to be educated so he can amount to something, and his father wants to work for peace even after they're driven out of Tabah in 1948. The first Arabs to flee were the wealthy intelligentsia, who could afford to live abroad in Cairo, Beirut, or Damascus and never come back. The dregs of society were left over, and even a powerful man like Ibrahim wasn't able to save his people. Because his family had to hide from the Iraqi Kawukji's thugs, they were unable to get on the boat with their people and escape to Lebanon. The Arabs of the city they ended up in gave them a very hostile welcome, something which shocked Ibrahim, since it violated the holy code of Arab hospitality. He also couldn't understand why he was being called a refugee, since he was still in his own country and had only left because the Arab leadership had promised quick and easy victory, after which everyone would be allowed to come back. He knew they had been sold down the river by their own people, and the situation in the camps only got worse and worse, with teachers preaching anti-Semitism and false history, terrorist youth groups, people cheating the UNRWA to get more money and food. It was a no-win situation all around, and people like Ibrahim who were willing to negotiate peace were silenced at resolution conventions with death threats and other means of manipulation and fear. Admitting they had lost the war and needed help would mean admitting that Israel existed.<br /><br /> The only part I didn't like wasthe sudden ending; it was going so well and then all fell apart, with the characters I had gotten to know and love suddenly acting out of character, as though the book had to be ended right then and there, almost in media res, with these actions of the main characters seemingly falling out of the air. I also was hoping that the sleazy Farouk would make an appearance; Ibrahim was furious over how his brother had stayed behind in Tabah while everyone was fleeing, double-crossing him and taking all of their money, and even said that he wouldn't sell his dagger for money because he had a special use in mind for it. It also would've been nice to see Ishmael taking on leadership in Aqbat Jabar, leading the people the way Ibrahim had back in Tabah, trying to make a better life for everyone, but given the time and circumstances, the odds against such a happy ending were too great.ke was the sudden ending; it was going so well and then all fell apart, with the characters I had gotten to know and love suddenly acting out of character, as though the book had to be ended right then and there, almost in media res, with these actions of the main characters seemingly falling out of the air. I also was hoping that the sleazy Farouk would make an appearance; Ibrahim was furious over how his brother had stayed behind in Tabah while everyone was fleeing, double-crossing him and taking all of their money, and even said that he wouldn't sell his dagger for money because he had a special use in mind for it. It also would've been nice to see Ishmael taking on leadership in Aqbat Jabar, leading the people the way Ibrahim had back in Tabah, trying to make a better life for everyone, but given the time and circumstances, the odds against such a happy ending were too great.	2004-07-29
US	32987921	R19JKUDNJOIJWO	0808572369	241894876	Wild Children	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Haunting tales of the bezprizorny	This is a really haunting, moving, unforgettable book about a tragic period in history, on a subject not well-known in the West. Many people don't know the full consequences of what happened in the wake of the Russian Revolution and Civil War; among other sad and tragic things, many children were left orphaned and homeless, and banded together for protection, roaming the length, width, and breadth of the Soviet Union. Other reviewers have complained it's too dark, sad, or mean-spirited, but that's how life was for these people in that place and at that time. Many young people were left without any family (occasionally in these bands of wild children you might find siblings, cousins, or children who had been friends before the Revolution), homeless, forced to hide in abandoned houses, barns, cellars, caves, stables, left without warm clothing, made into thieves and cannibals not because they were heartless and vindictive but because there was no other way for them to survive.<br /><br /> One day young Alex wakes up and finds his house in shambles, his parents and younger sister Nadya missing. He was spared because the Bolsheviks didn't know that his room was behind the wall. Alex goes first to his favourite teacher Katriana, but for safety reasons he can't stay with her for long, and goes to find his uncle Dmitriy, who he discovers has also been taken away. He has nowhere else to go, is alone, cold, homeless, and afraid, when he is befriended by a sweet little boy named Misha, who brings him to the cellar where a bunch of other homeless boys are staying. The leader, Peter, is wary of him at first, but before long Alex has been accepted as one of their own, though the two oldest, Boris and Grigoriy, don't completely warm up to him.<br /><br /> To escape the remainder of the cold Russian winter, the boys go on a trip to the Caucauses by sneaking onto a train. Before they left, they also took in a new bandmember, Anya, their only girl. Unfortunately, perhaps because Boris and Grigoriy informed on them to the police, they are caught by the authorities in the Caucauses and shipped off to an orphanage; Peter tells Alex they have been in them before but escaped. Escape becomes even more of a priority this time around after the mean director does something very horrible to them and Peter takes revenge for it.<br /><br /> Unlike many real-life gangs of bezprizorny (literally \\"homeless ones\\"), these children have an optimistic and happy end to their story; we don't know what will happen to them in the future, but we know they'll be alright. Too many of these children ended up dead, in prison, permanently in orphanages, in camps, or in horrible living situations as adults.se Boris and Grigoriy informed on them to the police, they are caught by the authorities in the Caucauses and shipped off to an orphanage; Peter tells Alex they have been in them before but escaped. Escape becomes even more of a priority this time around after the mean director does something very horrible to them and Peter takes revenge for it. <br />  <br /> Unlike many real-life gangs of bezprizorny (literally \\"homeless ones\\"), these children have an optimistic and happy end to their story; we don't know what will happen to them in the future, but we know they'll be alright. Too many of these children ended up dead, in prison, permanently in orphanages, in camps, or in horrible living situations as adults.	2004-07-28
US	32987921	R2N6D8BGXJ8J8Q	0815412843	405388003	I'm a Believer: My Life of Monkees, Music, and Madness	Books	5	52	53	N	N	Hilarious midlife autobiography!	I'm really glad this book is finally back in print.  I've read my own copy countless times, and each time it's as funny, cute, and irreverant as the last.  Micky had a great attitude towards writing his memoirs, despite initially feeling he was too young at 48 to do that.  He doesn't take himself too seriously, and points out at the beginning that this isn't meant to be some dry and strictly factual analysis of his life like too many autobiographies are.  He also doesn't focus only on his years in The Monkees; though he admits that will always be a huge part of his life, he realises it was far from the only part of his life, and that important things happened both before and after he was in the band.  There are so many anecdotes, vignettes, funny stories, fantasy scenes, scenes written in screenplay format, and flashback in here, one of the reasons why it's so enjoyable and readable.  It makes it more interesting and fun.  Micky also tells the reader not to take it too seriously, and that perhaps some of the things he describes may not have happened exactly as he depicts them, and says that when you finish reading you should go out and do something to help your community, not just put the book back on your shelf and walk away.<br /><br />There are some valid criticisms about how some things aren't detailed much, but maybe it's because Micky didn't want to hurt the people involved (like his first wife Samantha or his oldest daughter Ami) by revealing too much personal private information to the public.  It's enough that we know Micky's first marriage ended in divorce because of the kind of reckless and wild lifestyle he was living in the Seventies; we don't need to know all of the graphic details or who he may have cheated on her with.  He respects his loved ones too much to expose them to public humiliation and embarrassment by revealing things that are best kept private.  It's a very different style from Davy Jones's autobiography, a book with more graphic and scandalous details.  And perhaps Micky didn't reveal the name of his second wife, Trina, whom he had Charlotte, Emily, and Georgia with because they were divorcing at the time this book was originally published, and he was too upset over it to use her name.  On so many levels this book is refreshing and a welcome change from the average self-absorbed autobiography with too much information and things that the average reader didn't really want to know about.andalous details.  And perhaps Micky didn't reveal the name of his second wife, Trina, whom he had Charlotte, Emily, and Georgia with because they were divorcing at the time this book was originally published, and he was too upset over it to use her name.  On so many levels this book is refreshing and a welcome change from the average self-absorbed autobiography with too much information and things that the average reader didn't really want to know about.	2004-07-28
US	32987921	R3HEW6LVU3IXH7	0684801523	193175702	The Great Gatsby	Books	3	1	4	N	N	Interesting but overrated	I was expecting to like this book more than I ended up doing, since it's one of those books that is lauded as a classic, one of the things you're led to believe is a classic even if you've never even read it. I did like it, particularly the prose, but didn't consider it &quot;great.&quot; I was led to believe it was a story of life during the Jazz Age, an era I am very much interested in, and didn't find much in the way of describing life in the 1920s apart from some nightly parties thrown and attended by overly rich people and the title character being involved in bootlegging. I was expecting more descriptions of things like the actual process involved in bootlegging (how they made the alcohol in their bathtubs, for example), the kind of clothes people were wearing, popular songs and dances, flappers, movies, that sort of thing.<br /><br /> I found what remained of the story, after the lovely prose and descriptions of Twenties life, to be plotless and unconvincing. Why is Nick Carraway narrating this story? What does he do that's important? This book would have been better served with third-person narration instead of being narrated by Daisy's second-cousin once removed. It was also really unrealistic how Daisy and Gatsby instantly are as close and loving as they were before Daisy jilted him when he went off to war in 1917 and because he wasn't a rich man. Daisy has since married and had a child; she hasn't sat around waiting for him all these years like Penelope waited for Odysseus! I'm supposed to believe that their romance is rekindled overnight, and applaud Gatsby for throwing these lavish nightly parties only out of the vain hope that Daisy might come to one of them and see him again? He even has his house right across the way from Daisy's, and became so rich only in the hopes of winning her back, which seems really obsessive instead of sweet and romantic.<br /><br /> The book would have been better served having a hundred or so more pages so the reader could figure out the solutions to all of the whodunnits on his or her own. These are some great and intriguing mysteries, yet very quickly we're handed all of the answers on a silver platter. That takes away the thrill of figuring out what happened on one's own. The ending also was very dead-end and disappointing. I would have liked it more had the plot unfolded slower instead of too quickly to be realistic.could figure out the solutions to all of the whodunnits on his or her own. These are some great and intriguing mysteries, yet very quickly we're handed all of the answers on a silver platter. That takes away the thrill of figuring out what happened on one's own. The ending also was very dead-end and disappointing. I would have liked it more had the plot unfolded slower instead of too quickly to be realistic.	2004-07-20
US	32987921	RR5G8EPMXJCF	1556523998	952143633	The Lives of John Lennon	Books	2	7	10	N	N	I'm embarrassed I loved this book so much	My only excuse for gulping down every word of this sewage was that I was only 14 years old when I read it and didn't know any better but to believe it.  I had no reason to believe a biography would tell lies, esp. one that was allegedly as well-researched as Goldman claimed this one was.  Though Goldman's attempts to paint John and Yoko (as well as many other people in their lives) as these horrible horrible Satanic and psychologically messed up people failed; every negative trait of John's he gleefully wrote about, every shocking story, disgusting anecdote, vulgar practical joke, bad public behaviour, only made me love and admire him more.  I felt more and more that he really was just like everybody else, an ordinary human being with lots of flaws, someone even more heroic because he had to work so hard to overcome his sordid past and to bring his bad traits under serious control.  I was so nave I couldn't even read between the lines in all of the many scenes attempting to portray John or one of his friends as bad people or fools, like the insinuation that Yoko set up Paul's 1980 drug bust in Tokyo, or the scene where Linda McCartney called someone (David Spinoza?) to come over and help them with the recording of 'Ram,' where Spinoza later gave a sneering account to 'Melody Maker' about how Paul didn't know the names of any of the chords he was playing and that therefore he was a bad musician.<br />Finding out most of this book was a lie was like finding out there's no Santa Claus or Tooth Fairy, since I'd believed and treasured these stories for years, feeling that they made John more admirable and heroic since he had to suffer and overcome so much.  Many of these stories are urban legends, like John and Brian Epstein in bed together in Spain, wildly exaggerated stories, unverified anecdotes, and just plain lies.  Albert Goldman is like the boy who cried wolf; even if he is telling the truth in some instances, you have to doubt it because he's lied so many times before and been exposed as a liar in those instances.  And there are an awful lot of times where Goldman depicts John as being alone, or with only one other person, like his Aunt Mimi or Yoko, and tells us all of the personal thoughts in his head.  How would he know this if John was alone and never wrote those thoughts down, or he never expressed what was on his mind to the other person he was with?<br />Still, it was lively reading, a real page-turner, and even though I'm disgusted I believed every last word, I still vividly remember a lot of it years later.  And it does provide a lot of details on Yoko's art shows and her custody battle for her daughter Kyoko, which most other biographers haven't had much information on.  It's not totally worthless.before and been exposed as a liar in those instances.  And there are an awful lot of times where Goldman depicts John as being alone, or with only one other person, like his Aunt Mimi or Yoko, and tells us all of the personal thoughts in his head.  How would he know this if John was alone and never wrote those thoughts down, or he never expressed what was on his mind to the other person he was with?  <br />Still, it was lively reading, a real page-turner, and even though I'm disgusted I believed every last word, I still vividly remember a lot of it years later.  And it does provide a lot of details on Yoko's art shows and her custody battle for her daughter Kyoko, which most other biographers haven't had much information on.  It's not totally worthless.	2004-07-19
US	32987921	RUCDNYKLM4XCP	0064470423	283110171	The Journey Back	Books	4	1	5	N	N	An interesting but bland sequel	It seems like many sequels to books about the Shoah are hit-and-miss; sometimes there will be a gripping account of a return to life, healing, love, and a semblance of normalcy, but more often than not it's just an ordinary undistinguished account relating what happened after the War.  This book falls into the latter category.<br />Unlike many sequels of this nature, here the immediate family have more or less all stayed alive and are reunited soon after the War ends.  Mr. de Leeuw and the three sisters (who appear to each be about ten years apart in age) have been in hiding, not camps or ghettos.  They don't bear the same kind of intense and painful scars from that experience as someone who was in a ghetto or camp would.  They were in relative safety, and Holland was no Poland or Hungary.  Mrs. de Leeuw, while dead, died in the first book in a hospital because she had been very sick for a long time, not because she was murdered by the Nazis.  The de Leeuws have lost friends, neighbours, and relatives, but the immediate family has not been split up, nor do they have to spend time in displacement, rehabiliation, or refugee centres, immigrate, trek across foreign lands on their way back to their native Holland, or wait around in agony waiting for word of the other members of their immediate family.  They have much less to deal with than other people in post-Shoah sequels usually do.  The most serious problems in here are having to get used to living together as a family again, Annie's overbearing new stepmother Magda and Magda's 18 year old daughter Nell, Sini's constant dancing with soldiers at night and her fights with her father over it, and Rachel's conversion to Christianity and the family strife that is causing.  Maybe she did have a spiritual epiphany when the family who were hiding her took her to church with them for Xmas services, but it just seems tragic that someone who survived the Shoah, who had to spend those years in hiding instead of living a normal adult life all on account of her religion, would embrace a new religion instead of taking pride in her own religion once she's free to practise it again.<br />It's an interesting story, but really anticlimactic and overly domestic after all which went before.  This recounting of what happened afterwards just isn't as gripping as the accounts of people who lost most of their families, didn't return to their native lands, or had it much worse than merely being in hiding in a relatively safe nation-state like Holland.adult life all on account of her religion, would embrace a new religion instead of taking pride in her own religion once she's free to practise it again.<br />It's an interesting story, but really anticlimactic and overly domestic after all which went before.  This recounting of what happened afterwards just isn't as gripping as the accounts of people who lost most of their families, didn't return to their native lands, or had it much worse than merely being in hiding in a relatively safe nation-state like Holland.	2004-07-14
US	32987921	R1V2TK97U60EEY	0140186956	456745371	Kolyma Tales (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	4	18	28	N	N	Emotionless raw vignettes, terrible translation	It took me awhile to get into these stories because they're so emotionless, Stoic, devoid of feeling and humanity.  Most people are used to reading books or stories about bad periods of time like this where the characters still hang on to hope of being rescued or returned to the outside world, people who are loyal to their friends and relatives, people who can still discuss things like books or music, people who love one another and help one another to keep going in the midst of such inhumanity.  This is a stark contrast; for example, Shalamov's wood-cutting partner Garkunov is murdered for his beautiful white sweater which his wife sent him because he wouldn't give it up as a stake in a meaningless game of cards, and all he can say is that he'll have to find a new wood-cutting partner.  I did a paper in a Modern Russian Lit class in college, comparing and contrasting these stories with the writing of Solzhenitsyn, and the contrast is stunning.  Shalamov is more bitter and emotionless because he spent more time in the GULAG, in worse camps, was treated worse, was there earlier on, in the Thirties, when things were more awful than they were when Solzhenitsyn was arrested in 1945, conditions were worse, and the people he was surrounded by were nasty ingrates, or else he had no time to become friends with them since many were worked to death within days or even mere hours of their arrival in Kolyma.  The zeki here have lost all hope and have no time to sit around dreaming of a return to the outside world, writing secret stories, discussing Marx, Luther, Engels, and Pushkin, hiding eating utensils in their boots, and being nice to domesticated animals who wander into the camp.  Even the dead don't get any respect; in one story two inmates lift the rocks off of a man who has recently died so they can get his nice clothes.  And who needs emotions or character development when there are haunting images like lice-filled sweaters moving all by themselves, friendly stray dogs being murdered for their meat and fur, and a man being shot presumably dead for trying to escape and having his hands cut off for fingerprints, a man who later returns to the camp dazed and confused, holding his bloody stumps against his body?<br />Some of Shalamov's beliefs about certain elements in camp are suspect, or just plain wrong.  He had his life saved by people in the Medical Section twice, and so portrays the Medical Section and camp doctors as angels and saviours here, people who were loving and kind, who kept very sick and emaciated prisoners from going back to slave labour by lying about their conditions.  But most of the time, things were just the opposite.  Many doctors signed death sentences and sent sick emaciated people back out to be worked or frozen to their deaths.<br />Shalamov says that most of the women in camp were prostitutes.  Prostitution was declared a crime, but of the few women in the Kolyma, not a huge percentage were prostitutes.  Many women had relationships with male prisoners, for love and comfort, or with people in the camp administration, for better treatment and living conditions, but not all women did that.  I agree that the criminals in camp, both male and female, were nasty people without many morals, but to say that most of the career criminals wanted their sons to be criminals too and their daughters to be prostitutes?  Keeping young boys for pederasty on a widespread basis?  Men allowed to sleep with whomever they wanted, but women being shunned if they slept with non-criminals?  The \\"prostitutes\\" frequently traded off to new criminal owners?  Shunning or beating their kids if they didn't want to be criminals and prostitutes themselves?  Thieves raping girls as young as three?  Most of the male criminals gay, speaking in feminine voices, and having female nicknames?  This seems too fantastic and exaggerated to be true.  And if most of these male criminals were gay, why were they having such healthy sex lives with women?<br />The transliteration is all over the place; sometimes the Kh sound is transliterated as Kh and sometimes as X, like in Xvostov and Mixial (i.e., Khvostov and Mikhail).  Sometimes there's a ya and then ia, sometimes yu and then iu, no feminine endings on last names, and a man named Chris.  Khristofer and Khristian (Khristiyan) are Russian names, but Chris (or Khris) is not a Russian nickname.  There are also a few last names transliterated incorrectly, like Pugachev as Pugachov and Nikishev and Nikoshov.  Last names with the root ending in ch, sh, or shch, like Khrushchev or Gorbachev, always end in v or va, not ov.  It looks sloppy and misleading.  I also noticed two typos--\\"ment\\" instead of \\"element\\" and \\"surround\\" instead of \\"surrounding.\\"<br />John Glad also doesn't use any of the special GULAG terminology, like tenner (ten-year sentence), Black Mariya or Stolypin Car (special vehicles used to transport prisoners), zek (prisoner), zechka (female prisoner), or dokhodyaga (very emaciated prisoner on his or her last legs; what was called a Muskelmann in the Nazi camps).  There's just an untranslatable feeling and image conjured up with those words, and using English equivalents isn't as powerful or evocative.  All of the famous prisons have \\"Prison\\" after their names; all of the other GULAG writings I've read just called them, for example, Lefortovo or the Lubyanka.  You know it's a prison; you don't need to belabour the point.  And nowhere else have I seen the worst prison called Butyr; it's Butyrskaya, the Butyrki, or Butyrki.  I can't believe this shoddy hack job was nominated for an award; I'm just \\"Glad\\" he wasn't one of my professors.<br />The transliteration is all over the place; sometimes the Kh sound is transliterated as Kh and sometimes as X, like in Xvostov and Mixial (i.e., Khvostov and Mikhail).  Sometimes there's a ya and then ia, sometimes yu and then iu, no feminine endings on last names, and a man named Chris.  Khristofer and Khristian (Khristiyan) are Russian names, but Chris (or Khris) is not a Russian nickname.  There are also a few last names transliterated incorrectly, like Pugachev as Pugachov and Nikishev and Nikoshov.  Last names with the root ending in ch, sh, or shch, like Khrushchev or Gorbachev, always end in v or va, not ov.  It looks sloppy and misleading.  I also noticed two typos--\\"ment\\" instead of \\"element\\" and \\"surround\\" instead of \\"surrounding.\\"<br />John Glad also doesn't use any of the special GULAG terminology, like tenner (ten-year sentence), Black Mariya or Stolypin Car (special vehicles used to transport prisoners), zek (prisoner), zechka (female prisoner), or dokhodyaga (very emaciated prisoner on his or her last legs; what was called a Muskelmann in the Nazi camps).  There's just an untranslatable feeling and image conjured up with those words, and using English equivalents isn't as powerful or evocative.  All of the famous prisons have \\"Prison\\" after their names; all of the other GULAG writings I've read just called them, for example, Lefortovo or the Lubyanka.  You know it's a prison; you don't need to belabour the point.  And nowhere else have I seen the worst prison called Butyr; it's Butyrskaya, the Butyrki, or Butyrki.  I can't believe this shoddy hack job was nominated for an award; I'm just \\"Glad\\" he wasn't one of my professors.	2004-07-13
US	32987921	RQP8N6PQAEM9L	0679410007	289712823	Anna Karenina (Everyman's Library)	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Great story, bad translation	Despite some boring points during the book, like Vronskiy's horse race, Levin going hunting with his friends or threshing with his estate's peasants, the chapters where the male characters are voting, and Levin's endless pontificating, both out loud and to himself, about religion, agriculture, and education, this was overall a great story, hard to put down.  The most annoying thing about the Maude translation is the &quot;translation&quot; of personal names into English, like Matthew instead of Matvey, Mary instead of Mariya, Nicholas instead of Nikolay, or Agatha instead of Agafya.  It looks really arrogant and is very distracting--who's going to believe that these very Russian characters, even if they do speak French more than Russian, are actually calling one another Sergius, Mary, Kate, Annie, and Michael?  I'm suprised they didn't &quot;translate&quot; Ivan into John or Anna into Anne, given how nearly every other personal name was &quot;translated.&quot;  They also mentioned in the list of characters (which lists every single character who ever appears, even ones who are just servants or guests who appear for all of five minutes) that  is pronounced yo in Russian, but how many readers will remember that when they're reading names rendered as Serezha or Alesha instead of Seryozha and Alyosha?  And the section where Levin comes to appreciate, love, and respect Kitty as a full mature woman and not just some pretty young sweet girl he's in love with, when she accompanied him to his dying profligate brother's deathbed and helped to look after Nikolay, has him start calling her Kate after this shift in how he relates to her.  I had heard about this part of the book before, only that he began to call her Katya.  How un-Russian is the nickname Kate?!  I've also seen other translations where the characters are called by multiple nicknames, not just the ones given here, yet the Maude translation only has them going by Dolly and Kitty, not Dolyenka and Katyenka, for example.  Were they afraid that was too Russian for the average reader?<br />I had always thought that the scene involving the train ended the book, and was really surprised that there's about 50 more pages after that, during which we barely gauge anyone's reactions to what happened, and the matter isn't even discussed for very long before it's swept under the rug.  The real end is very unconvincing; we're supposed to believe that Levin, who has been an agnostic for the entire book, who even didn't like having to go to Confession and hear Mass as a prerequisite for getting married, suddenly gets religious faith?  Parts Seven and Eight should have been switched around.  The title is also somewhat misleading because of how that story ends; wouldn't it end the entire book if it's the end of the story involving the title character?  The title character isn't even introduced till around page eighty, and like so many stories, Anna and Vronskiy barely have said ten words to one another before they fall into bed.  What were their motivations for entering this relationship, why did they do it when so many other people could never have done such a thing, was he even any good or worth it?  There's no delving into what's going on in their hearts or their feelings for one another, something which should be in any book about an affair.ample.  Were they afraid that was too Russian for the average reader?<br />I had always thought that the scene involving the train ended the book, and was really surprised that there's about 50 more pages after that, during which we barely gauge anyone's reactions to what happened, and the matter isn't even discussed for very long before it's swept under the rug.  The real end is very unconvincing; we're supposed to believe that Levin, who has been an agnostic for the entire book, who even didn't like having to go to Confession and hear Mass as a prerequisite for getting married, suddenly gets religious faith?  Parts Seven and Eight should have been switched around.  The title is also somewhat misleading because of how that story ends; wouldn't it end the entire book if it's the end of the story involving the title character?  The title character isn't even introduced till around page eighty, and like so many stories, Anna and Vronskiy barely have said ten words to one another before they fall into bed.  What were their motivations for entering this relationship, why did they do it when so many other people could never have done such a thing, was he even any good or worth it?  There's no delving into what's going on in their hearts or their feelings for one another, something which should be in any book about an affair.	2004-07-13
US	32987921	R1KG7UAXHZ12HN	0380773155	543226706	It Happened to Nancy: By an Anonymous Teenager, A True Story from Her Diary	Books	5	57	64	N	N	Moving book in spite of possibly being fradulent	I read this book twice in a row at fourteen and cried at the end both times, after having earlier scoffed at the book because of how stupid and nave Nancy acted.  It's really upsetting to find it may be largely or entirely a fraud, that this sweet courageous young person may have been made up or had her life made into something that was largely the creation of Dr. Sparks.  A lot of girls are like Nancy and don't see anything fishy about an older man wanting to date them or letting an older boyfriend spend the night when their parents are away.  During the stampede (or whatever the chaos was) at the Garth Brooks concert she attends with her friends, Nancy has an asthma attack and finds herself being taken care of by a strange older boy named Collin.  She never tells him to get away from her because she doesn't know him, or tell him he's too old for her at her age.  (Four years of age difference in a relationship isn't that big of a deal, but if you're 14 and 18, it's not the same as, say, an 18 year old and a 22 year old.)  She never even tells her mother about this relationship, or any of her friends.  It turns out his real name is Gary and that he's 32 years old.<br />In hindsight some of it does seem too fishy to be true.  How was Nancy's doctor able to give her an HIV test without her knowledge or permission, why does her disease get so serious so fast (unless Collin had a full-blown case when he gave it to her, or because of her strained immune system due to her serious asthma), why doesn't she go down to the Catholic rape crisis centre she called the morning after her attack, after telling the sympathetic nun on the phone she'd come over, why doesn't her mother take her to get tested for AIDS, STDs, or pregnancy as soon as she tells her about the rape?  She takes her out of town on a beach vacation instead?  And it's suspicious how all of Sparks's young diarists have the same exact moral preachiness, similar writing styles, never say anything against their parents (or if they do they quickly take it back), never get involved in these problems by their own accord but instead are pulled in by friends who drug them, rape them, or talk them into Satanic beliefs.  Nancy may be a sweet religious old-fashioned Southern girl, but surely she couldn't have been that nave.  I was a few years younger than Nancy at the time these events are going on in the early Nineties, and well remember what the climate was like at that time, people deathly afraid of getting AIDS from toilet seats or mosquito bites, people desperate for more funding for research because so many people were dying and getting sick.  None of that was felt in her small South Carolina town?<br />It's a moving book with a powerful and important message, but I no longer view it the same way I did when I first read it and thought it was a 100% true story.rents (or if they do they quickly take it back), never get involved in these problems by their own accord but instead are pulled in by friends who drug them, rape them, or talk them into Satanic beliefs.  Nancy may be a sweet religious old-fashioned Southern girl, but surely she couldn't have been that nave.  I was a few years younger than Nancy at the time these events are going on in the early Nineties, and well remember what the climate was like at that time, people deathly afraid of getting AIDS from toilet seats or mosquito bites, people desperate for more funding for research because so many people were dying and getting sick.  None of that was felt in her small South Carolina town?<br />It's a moving book with a powerful and important message, but I no longer view it the same way I did when I first read it and thought it was a 100% true story.	2004-07-12
US	32987921	R3LAJU2VWI3C7Z	068480154X	655275342	Tender Is the Night	Books	3	2	9	N	N	Better than Gatsby but still unconvincing	I was expecting to like this book more, and only checked it out because the library didn't have 'The Great Gatsby.'  I liked this book more than Gatsby, but after having read both of them, I feel it's about as undeveloped and unconvincing as Fitzgerald's more famous work.<br />I really liked Part One, but things really went south in Part Two.  I really didn't see how Rosemary fit into the plot at all; she's this big-name rising starlet who is instantly warmly and closely befriended by all of Dick and Nicole's adult friends when they're in France, and she and Dick are mutually attracted to one another, an attraction strongly encouraged by Rosemary's mother.  Unless there's something going on between the lines that I failed to see, this didn't seem like anything more than a young girl with a crush on an older married man, a crush that doesn't go much farther than some secret rendezvous where they don't do anything more than kiss, hold one another, and say sweet nothings.  Then she drops out of their lives and doesn't appear again till close to the end, where she and Dick are talking like they shared some affair.  How could the brief appearance of a young girl disrupt Dick and Nicole's marriage so much, esp. since they never even slept together?  This is just like a lot of books with alleged affairs or love stories which are never given any motivation or credibility, explaining why these two people are attracted to one another and would want to leave an existing relationship for this new dangerous one.  It really insults the reader's intelligence.<br />Besides the alleged love story, the character development of Dick and Nicole were also really wanting.  We know that Nicole has been psychologically unstable anyway since she was a young girl (indeed, she and Dick met while he was treating her in a mental hospital), but there's no insight into why she goes back to her old unglued ways.  Her behaviour doesn't even seem that out of control, just erratic and a bit strange.  We also get no insight into why Dick also starts on a course towards his own mental breakdown.  I had no understanding of why they began acting that way; why should I consider him the hero and root for him when I'm given no insight into his condition, no explanation or rationale for his behaviour, and when he doesn't want to deal with his wife's serious problems, who indeed even worsens them?  There were also a few pointless and dead-end subplots, like Abe North's problems in Paris and the incident towards the end involving Mary North and Lady Sibley-Beers.  The edition I read also had a lot of untranslated French passages, as though everyone still speaks French as a second language or even speaks it more often than their native tongue.  Those days are gone, and there's no need to belabour the point by having whole conversations in French when the reader knows that they're in France and speaking to French people.  The end of the book was also a big dead-end.  The story was interesting, just not convincing, realistic, or believable.We also get no insight into why Dick also starts on a course towards his own mental breakdown.  I had no understanding of why they began acting that way; why should I consider him the hero and root for him when I'm given no insight into his condition, no explanation or rationale for his behaviour, and when he doesn't want to deal with his wife's serious problems, who indeed even worsens them?  There were also a few pointless and dead-end subplots, like Abe North's problems in Paris and the incident towards the end involving Mary North and Lady Sibley-Beers.  The edition I read also had a lot of untranslated French passages, as though everyone still speaks French as a second language or even speaks it more often than their native tongue.  Those days are gone, and there's no need to belabour the point by having whole conversations in French when the reader knows that they're in France and speaking to French people.  The end of the book was also a big dead-end.  The story was interesting, just not convincing, realistic, or believable.	2004-07-12
US	32987921	R2E1I0HT1HJ071	0679776192	524015341	Tao Te Ching, 25th-Anniversary Edition (English and Mandarin Chinese Edition)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Simple wisdom for eternity	This was the only personal book I had in my possession during my junior year of highschool when I was living with my paternal grandparents (most of the rest of my family's possessions were in storage in my other grandparents' house; long story).  Since I discovered it on my parents' bookshelves in January of 1995, I have read it many times and never fail to experience the same sense of awe and agreement as I did the very first time.  The ancient and beautiful words of Lao-Tzu helped to get me through a very tough year, and the description of the Tao as one, eternal, forever unchanging, the mother of the ten thousand things, unfathomable, unable to be truly grasped, nameless, elusive and intangible, and hidden deep yet ever present, strikes me as very similar to the Jewish belief in one God, one Divine Force which never changes and is unable to be fully grasped either.  There are so many beautiful lines in here, so many true observations about human character, the Tao (or God, the Divine, Vishnu, Goddess, Great Spirit, however you call it), virtue, human nature, the nature of things.  So many times Lao-Tzu points out that we cannot know something (like beauty, good, high, low, short, long, harmony, or softness) without experiencing its opposite.  We are only able to see good as good because there is Evil in the world too, and beauty as beauty because there is ugliness.  He also often mentions how these opposites can contrast and complement one another, follow one another, and overcome one another.  One such example is that a small country can overcome a large nation which conquers it by submitting to it.  I also love Chapter 31, which states that &quot;[g]ood weapons are instruments of fear; all creatures hate them,&quot; going on to say that a wise man (or woman) only uses weapons when one has no choice, and that &quot;war is conducted like a funeral.&quot;<br />This is one of the most famous and important holy books in world religion, yet unlike the longer and more complex works such as the Bible, Koran, and Vedas, this is amazingly simple, easy to interpret, not hard to read or to study, and easy to sum up:  &quot;Simply be.&quot;complex works such as the Bible, Koran, and Vedas, this is amazingly simple, easy to interpret, not hard to read or to study, and easy to sum up:  &quot;Simply be.&quot;	2004-07-11
US	32987921	R3MAOA3MRGPUZR	0451208633	740001827	The Divine Comedy (The Inferno, The Purgatorio, and The Paradiso)	Books	4	15	31	N	N	Beautiful but slightly dated classic	This is an undisputed classic, which I'm sure is even more poetic and lovely in the original Middle Italian, but it's not as accessible to the modern reader or as well-aged as other Medieval classics like the Decameron or El Cid.  The average modern reader isn't going to know who all of these people being referred to are; some of them were people that were very well-known to a person of Dante's time, but unless you're a scholar of Medieval history, chances are you're not going to be too familiar with most of them.  And most people also no longer study the ancient Greeks and Romans as thoroughly as students did in Dante's day; the average person won't know who all of these figures are, from either mythology or actual history, since most schools no longer have an emphasis on Greek, Latin, and the ancient world.  If you constantly look down at the footnotes, the flow of the story is interrupted, but if you don't, you won't have much idea about what's going on.<br />This book isn't just about presenting a work of beautiful poetry, which was inspired by Dante's great unrequited love Beatrice, in an attempt to immortalise this woman, this great love, for all time.  It's also a not-so-subtle way of getting back at his enemies, by putting them in Hell or Purgatory, or having people &quot;prophesise&quot; what will happen to those enemies in the future.  His supporters and the people whom he loves and admires are mostly in Purgatory and Paradise.  It also really tows the Church line, with all of these different circles and rings of Hell for specific crimes (some of which, like suicide, homosexuality, and fortune-telling, are no longer considered sins or worthy of Hell today), and makes apologies for these horrible punishments.  However, at least Dante is evolved enough to actually question the reason for why so and so is in Hell, or some point about Christian doctrine he doesn't understand, and he only comes to believe it is true and valid after he's had it explained to him (albeit by someone who has an agenda to get that pov across).  At least he's questioning this stuff instead of accepting it blindly.<br />Another dated thing about this book is that, what with the constant barrage of carnage on the news today, and whole generations who are familiar with images from concentration camps, war zones, suicide bombings, genocides, and school shootings, the average modern reader probably won't be too fazed by descriptions of people frozen in ice, people turning into monsters and then back into people, or Satan himself.  But above all, despite the Church propaganda, plethora of references which mean nothing to the average modern reader, and Dante's way of getting revenge on his enemies by putting them in Hell, the overall themes are timeless.  This is a story about rising from hopelessness and despair, to a place where people are miserable but have hope of getting better, and finally to more and more enlightened and beautiful places of joy, love, and peace.  Dante's story begins when he wakes up in the Wood of Error, not sure how he got there or how he lost the true way, and the remedy for getting his life back on the right track is this both physical and symbolic journey from despair to hope.(albeit by someone who has an agenda to get that pov across).  At least he's questioning this stuff instead of accepting it blindly.<br />Another dated thing about this book is that, what with the constant barrage of carnage on the news today, and whole generations who are familiar with images from concentration camps, war zones, suicide bombings, genocides, and school shootings, the average modern reader probably won't be too fazed by descriptions of people frozen in ice, people turning into monsters and then back into people, or Satan himself.  But above all, despite the Church propaganda, plethora of references which mean nothing to the average modern reader, and Dante's way of getting revenge on his enemies by putting them in Hell, the overall themes are timeless.  This is a story about rising from hopelessness and despair, to a place where people are miserable but have hope of getting better, and finally to more and more enlightened and beautiful places of joy, love, and peace.  Dante's story begins when he wakes up in the Wood of Error, not sure how he got there or how he lost the true way, and the remedy for getting his life back on the right track is this both physical and symbolic journey from despair to hope.	2004-07-11
US	32987921	R2ZGJW5R697ECT	0802773753	276773786	Writing and Publishing Books for Children in the 1990s: The Inside Story from the Editor's Desk	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Good overview, but dated in parts	This is a really good general overview of writing and publishing for children, complete with a brief history of the childrens,' JA, and YA publishing history, how censors operate and how to combat them, what to do after you've been published, and how to write a picture book.  I think, though, that the advice Ms. Litowinsky gave on sending an unsolicited manuscript was out of date even when this book was written.  That is one way to gt published, particularly if you follow her advice of getting to know the editor to whom you're sending it, but chances are you'll get nowhere if you don't have an agent (which she doesn't endorse that heartily), and even if you do do all of your homework in getting to know who's who in the publishing house, books similar to yours which that editor in particular worked on, even saying that you heard the editor speaking at a conference you attended or that a well-known friend of yours recommended him or her, your manuscript will still probably sit unnnoticed in the slush pile because no matter what it's still an unsolicited manuscript.  Nowadays the best way to go is to get an agent first, or if you want to do it the old-fashioned way, sent a query letter and synopsis first, with sample chapters if the publishing house requires it.  You'll get a reply faster, and you won't have spent unneeded postage money on a gamble that, if it does pay off, probably won't pay off for quite a long time.<br />I write historical fiction, and Ms. Litowinsky focuses by and large on writing books set in contemporary settings.  She adds that most children aren't interested in reading books about history outside of school, and only recommends writing in this genre if it really really interests you.  She also says that a book about something pivotal often only sells well or gets published if it's an anniversary year, like 1995 having been the fiftieth anniversary of the end of WWII, and only if it's interesting and written well will it still be read after that year.  If you're really interested in those events, why not write about them regardless of whether their anniversary is coming up or not?  She also recommends naming your characters after your friends' children, or to look in birth announcements to find them.  I know that many of my fellow writers are very interested in names by virtue of being writers...why would you want your character to have an ordinary name like Tyler or Ashley when you can have an unforgettable character with a more unusual and memorable moniker like Ammiel or Eulalia?<br />Still, this is only a general overview, and there are a lot of good books and magazines referenced in the back pages.  It's not meant to be the end-all and be-all of childrens' writing and publishing; a good writer goes with his or her heart, even if that means writing in a genre that isn't as popular among young people as something like fiction set in contemporary times.year.  If you're really interested in those events, why not write about them regardless of whether their anniversary is coming up or not?  She also recommends naming your characters after your friends' children, or to look in birth announcements to find them.  I know that many of my fellow writers are very interested in names by virtue of being writers...why would you want your character to have an ordinary name like Tyler or Ashley when you can have an unforgettable character with a more unusual and memorable moniker like Ammiel or Eulalia?<br />Still, this is only a general overview, and there are a lot of good books and magazines referenced in the back pages.  It's not meant to be the end-all and be-all of childrens' writing and publishing; a good writer goes with his or her heart, even if that means writing in a genre that isn't as popular among young people as something like fiction set in contemporary times.	2004-07-11
US	32987921	R1WI4A5JANL35K	0374223149	559178792	November 1916 (The Red Wheel II)	Books	4	35	38	N	N	Great story slowed down by superfluous research papers	I was really excited to see this book had finally been translated into English, having just read the old (and terrible) Michael Glenny hack job translation of 'August 1914.'  It was a bit slow to pick up, but this is my favourite writer, so I knew that once it got going, it would be as impossible to put down as all of his other books.  Unfortunately that was not the case.  I abandoned it in frustration midway through the first of the six miniature research papers, on the history of the Kadet movement, and didn't return to it and start all over again till three and a half years later.  This time I didn't give up at any point, though it wasn't easy getting through most of the small-print material in the non-fiction chapters.  I really believe that he did want to educate his fellow Russians on a period in their history which isn't well-taught or well-understood instead of showing off the mammoth research he did on this book, but surely there could have been a way to convey that same information without interrupting the narrative a total of six times to bring the reader this tedious material, a mixture of non-fiction narrative and long quotes from the historical figures being discussed.  Maybe, like in some of his other books I've read, have page references in the back to what was being talked about there, have footnotes, or a general introduction or afterword on the history behind the story.  I know this is his life's work, the second of the four books that were the obsession of his writing life (thankfully he's lived long enough to finish them), but the information would have been gotten across just as well had these six chapters been cut out or had the information presented in the course of the fictional story, the way a good historical fiction writer presents historical events and figures important to the story.  It was also hard to keep track of who was who, with all of these names, like Markov, Uncle Khvostov, Nephew Khvostov, Maklakov, Rodzyanko, Protopopov, Milyukov, Krivoshein, St?rmer, and Shipov, as well as who had been dismissed by the Tsar, whom Rasputin and the Tsarina were trying to get rid of, who was a Centrist, Rightist, Kadet, Leftist, ultra-Leftist, ultra-Rightist, a Duma member, or one of the Tsar's ministers.  I love Russian history, but this was way too much information to process.  The only non-fiction chapters I felt belonged there were the final two, the Duma transcripts, which read more like part of a story than a detached research paper.<br />The scope of this book is far wider than 'August 1914,' and there are far more characters to keep track of.  A number of characters from that book also appear here, in varying degrees of importance.  The most important recurring character is Colonel Georgiy Vorontyntsev; here we also get to meet his wife Alina, his baby sister Vera, and their childhood nanny.  Since the time during which this book takes place, late October to mid November of 1916, was primarily a time of stalemate, the majority of the action takes place on the homefront.  The chapters that do involve the characters in the military don't include any battles.  It's hard to not see why revolution occurred when it did--everything on the homefront is going to the dogs, what with fixed grain prices for the peasants, rising prices for the people in the cities, anti-German pogroms, men between the ages of 38 and 41 being called into the military, along with boys who were born in 1898, the youngest possible class who can serve, Russia bankrupt, the strange behaviour of the Tsar, the replacement of the popular but ineffective Supreme Commander of the army, Nikolasha, with his great-nephew the Tsar himself, and the world shutting off its banking with Russia.  Everyone was humiliated and angry, from the Tsarists to the revolutionaries living in exile abroad.  The Tsar was a genuinely nice fellow, but kept making all of the wrong moves and making revolution even more inevitable.<br />Some people don't like thisbook because it has so many different characters, but that's the point--it's showing how these events affected all of these different classes of people, at all levels of society, how each of them reacted to it.  It's harder to summarise, and very exhausting to read (I read it in two weeks, surprising given the sheer length), but the ending is really beautiful, a classic final thought.  It was worth it just to read the end.book because it has so many different characters, but that's the point--it's showing how these events affected all of these different classes of people, at all levels of society, how each of them reacted to it.  It's harder to summarise, and very exhausting to read (I read it in two weeks, surprising given the sheer length), but the ending is really beautiful, a classic final thought.  It was worth it just to read the end.	2004-07-11
US	32987921	R3UYJFXDYJKVVT	0590455702	268343657	The Big Lie: A True Story	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Not as gripping as the adult account	I got this book because I was interested in the childrens' version of the most haunting book I've ever read.  It's unfair to compare this with the longer adult memoirs, but many things which make Isabella's adult memoirs so unforgettable and haunting are missing here.  On the one hand, here the story starts on 20 March 1944, the day after Hungary is invaded by the Nazis, and the adult version begins on 28 May 1944, Isabella's birthday, the day before they're deported.  So here we get to find out about what life was like for the Katz family under Nazi occupation, their move into the ghetto, and some of their neighbours who were thrown into the ghetto with them.  We didn't get any of that information in the adult version.  Though surprisingly there are some graphic things in here which were left out of the adult version, things which might give the intended audience, children, nightmares.  We get much more detail here about the death train and their march towards it, for example, and how one night Mengele shot at Isabella and her three remaning sisters but missed in the dark.  The adult version also never mentions how at first Isabella's two older sisters had to hold her nose and force the soup down her throat in the camp, since it looked and smelt terrible and she didn't want to eat it.  And what was originally 'Saving the Fragments,' the three sisters' journey from liberation to America, barely gets any coverage in here.  That book, later parts two and three of the combination of the two books, is a wonderful account of their return to life, their delight in how the Nazis didn't snuff out all love, hope, and life.  The childrens' version also doesn't tell how they were joined in the house they escaped to by three Polish women, and they hid there for three days before the Russians liberated them; they weren't liberated right away after they ran into the house and began eating.<br />With only 79 pages of large print (including an afterward on the history behind the story), this doesn't come even close to conveying what the adult account does.  Here I barely get any sense of the incredible bond of love, loyalty, and survival shared by the four, later three, sisters.  It becomes merely another Holocaust account, supposedly watered down for children but also including some details which other reviewers have agreed aren't age-appropriate for someone of the intended audience.  Some of the things that happen in the adult book are also changed here, probably to make children feel more comfortable-in the adult version, Isabella and her sister Chicha lose sight of the other members of their family when the cattle car opens, too busy looking for their cigarettes, and don't see or speak to their mother or youngest sister ever again.  They don't find their other two sisters till they've had their heads shaved already.  And from reading the adult book, we know it's possible the baby sister was burnt alive instead of gassed with the mother.<br />There are better and more age-appropriate books to start with for children, if they must read about this at all before the age of ten, but it still gets the Katz sisters' story across, even in a watered-down and edited format.ory), this doesn't come even close to conveying what the adult account does.  Here I barely get any sense of the incredible bond of love, loyalty, and survival shared by the four, later three, sisters.  It becomes merely another Holocaust account, supposedly watered down for children but also including some details which other reviewers have agreed aren't age-appropriate for someone of the intended audience.  Some of the things that happen in the adult book are also changed here, probably to make children feel more comfortable-in the adult version, Isabella and her sister Chicha lose sight of the other members of their family when the cattle car opens, too busy looking for their cigarettes, and don't see or speak to their mother or youngest sister ever again.  They don't find their other two sisters till they've had their heads shaved already.  And from reading the adult book, we know it's possible the baby sister was burnt alive instead of gassed with the mother.  <br />There are better and more age-appropriate books to start with for children, if they must read about this at all before the age of ten, but it still gets the Katz sisters' story across, even in a watered-down and edited format.	2004-07-09
US	32987921	R2JPG4GCIFE2MO	0140442812	282196353	Persian Letters (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	27	31	N	N	Philosophy in the guise of fiction	This was one of the books I read in my History of the Enlightenment Class my junior year of college.  Our brilliant professor didn't assign all of the letters to read, though, and later I went back and read all of the book, not just the ones we'd been assigned to read for class.  A lot of books about the politics and philosophy of a certain period in time don't age well, but this one, for the most part anyway, sounds just as fresh and entertaining today as it did in the eighteenth century.  And using the pretence of this being a collection of real letters he intercepted from some Persian houseguests, Montesquieu was able to communicate the new exciting beliefs of his age by having them be told through the so-called eyes of Usbek, Rica, and Ibben, who were experiencing this all for the very first time and having to get adjusted to a real clash of values.  This also worked to his advantage in a few cases, like where Usbek is talking about how there is a magician even greater than the King of France, saying &quot;This magician is called the Pope&quot; and going into a whole scathing litany about the Pope.  He was able to attack the King and the Church by pretending that foreign travellers were writing and believing these things.<br />The subplot is very interesting too.  While Usbek and his friend Rica are away in France for seven years soaking up the Enlightenment, Usbek's wives, concubines, and slaves are getting more and more restless.  While the cat's away, the mice will play, and the guiltiest party is the one the reader least suspects.  This brings up the Enlightenment question about personal freedom, and how someone might react in such a situation.  These women, and these male slaves, have never questioned their total subservience to Usbek until it becomes clear he's not going to be back for quite some time.  They give in to their natural human instincts, wanting greater personal freedom and realising they don't have to be these obedient little automatons with no personal wishes or desires of their own apart from absolutely pleasing Usbek in all things.  And by the time Usbek gets wind of this from his faithful eunuchs, the women and the slaves have already tasted freedom and will not go back to how things used to be without a fight.  (Though I was surprised that the eunuchs never got into this rebellion against the restrictive rules too, and wondered where Zephis and Fatme, two of the other five main wives, went, since they aren't mentioned in the Chief Eunuch's first letter to Usbek telling him of the &quot;horrible sins&quot; which his women and slaves have been engaging in without him around.)<br />This book is great not only as history, but also as fiction and philosophical, political, and religious commentary, ringing as true today in many respects as it did nearly three hundred years ago.o personal wishes or desires of their own apart from absolutely pleasing Usbek in all things.  And by the time Usbek gets wind of this from his faithful eunuchs, the women and the slaves have already tasted freedom and will not go back to how things used to be without a fight.  (Though I was surprised that the eunuchs never got into this rebellion against the restrictive rules too, and wondered where Zephis and Fatme, two of the other five main wives, went, since they aren't mentioned in the Chief Eunuch's first letter to Usbek telling him of the &quot;horrible sins&quot; which his women and slaves have been engaging in without him around.)<br />This book is great not only as history, but also as fiction and philosophical, political, and religious commentary, ringing as true today in many respects as it did nearly three hundred years ago.	2004-07-09
US	32987921	R3N4X2LKBJ0CLY	0451528662	981115146	The Decameron (Signet Classics)	Books	5	22	27	N	N	Italy's Canterbury Tales	This is an awesome collection of a hundred stories told over ten days, by the young people Fiammetta, Dioneo, Filostrato, Neifile, Emilia, Elisa (or Elissa), Filomena, Panfilo, Pampinea, and Lauretta, who have temporarily left Florence because of the scariness of the Plague.  Each of them also brings also a servant.  The introductory chapter is really gripping, told from the pov of someone who actually lived through that devastating and frightening time when this mysterious deadly disease was sweeping through Europe, killing nearly everyone, devastating families and churches, destroying morality, and generally creating a very terrifying atmosphere.  The young people spend more than ten days on hiatus from Florence, taking some of the days off for religious purposes, but most of the time is spent telling stories.  Most of the days have a theme to be followed, like love stories that began sadly but ended happily, though Dioneo gets to tell a story on whatever topic he likes.  Because of this privilege, he always must tell his story last.<br />This came before the Canterbury Tales, and I consider it a lot better.  Chaucer seems to have been greatly influenced by it in that a number of his own tales are suspiciously similar to stories in here; one is admittedly even a practically word-by-word retelling of the final Decameron story.  There are all sorts of people in these stories, from all walks of life, doing all kinds of things, things which many people would never think of people of this time period doing.  Nearly everyone commits adultery or has premarital sex, people deceive priests and friars with false confessions, women are just as sexually demanding as the men, people cheat one another out of goods and money, women get rid of unwanted suitors, monks, nuns, friars, and priests violate their vows of chastity, even a (for the time) very risqu&eacute; tale about a gay man who marries a woman as a cover for his ongoing affairs with other men.  A lot of the stories are also very funny, like the priest who makes a vain woman believe the Angel Gabriel is in love with her and is using the priest's body to sleep with her every night, or (my favourite) the tale about how to put the Devil back into Hell.  Women were second-class citizens and property at this time in history, yet there are plenty of spirited female characters who get what they want and are smarter than the men in their lives.<br />There are only a few stories in here I would consider dated doozies.  The story where the moral is to learn to beat your wife so she won't assert herself and disobey her husband's every last word is repugnant, and I hate the eighth story of the fifth day.  Nastagio has spent nearly all of his money trying to court a woman who doesn't like him, and after seeing a bizarre supernatural scene involving a man in his same position, a man who killed himself, he decides to invite the woman and some friends and family over to lunch the next time this scene occurs.  Because he threw his weight around, this poor woman was terrified she would end up in Hell and be chased by a phantom knight and mauled by phantom dogs every Friday, and so gave in to this bully.  The first story of the fifth day, about Cimone, also is very dated...how is it a happy ending to a love story when the man throws his weight around and bullies the woman into being with him?  The second story in the book is also way dated and offensive-a merchant bullies his Jewish friend (typically only called by his name thrice during the story) into converting to Christianity, and the man makes a pilgrimage to Rome and comes back convinced he must convert, since Christianity thrives despite the corruption of the Vatican.  That's pure Christian fantasy and just historical inaccuracy; the huge majority of Jews who changed religions in that era of time did not do so out of conviction but rather for improved social, business, or educational status.  Though in the second of the stories where Saladin, the legendary Muslim ruler, appears, he is treated as one of the two heroes of the story, not some \\"heathen\\" who has no virtues and who must be converted asap.<br />A lot of books written during the Middle Ages are no longer remembered or in print today.  There's a reason why this has stuck around for hundreds of years and is regarded as a timeless classic.legendary Muslim ruler, appears, he is treated as one of the two heroes of the story, not some \\"heathen\\" who has no virtues and who must be converted asap.<br />A lot of books written during the Middle Ages are no longer remembered or in print today.  There's a reason why this has stuck around for hundreds of years and is regarded as a timeless classic.	2004-07-09
US	32987921	RWSH2TCZLKT1F	0520046773	393940223	The Trial Begins and On Socialist Realism	Books	4	17	17	N	N	A somewhat underdeveloped minor classic	This book is famous because it was written by Andrey Sinyavskiy under the pseudonym Abram Tertz, and those in the know about Russian literature are familiar with how, in September of 1965, he and Yuliy Daniel were arrested, put on a show trial for having published abroad, and sentenced to seven years of hard labour.  That combined with the subject matter makes it somewhat of a minor classic, though it's not well-known among people who aren't into Russian literature.<br />This book takes place in the last year of Stalin's life, and centres around the Doctors' Plot.  Stalin was planning a major new purge in the waning days of his life; these falsely accused doctors, the majority of whom were Jewish, were saved only because the dictator died on 5 March 1953.  Though allegedly Stalin was planning to show his &quot;generosity&quot; by intervening at the last moment, saving them from being hanged in Red Square and sent off to Siberia instead.  The term &quot;Cosmopolitan&quot; was a not-so-secret way of saying someone was Jewish.  The doctor who is accused in this book is a Dr. Rabinovich, who illegally performed an abortion.  He is being prosecuted by Vladimir Globov, father of Seryozha and husband of Marina (who is his second wife).  Globov's home life is being disrupted because he finds out that Marina, who has just celebrated her thirtieth birthday, has also had an abortion (though we never find out if she's the one on whom Dr. Rabinovich operated), and his son Seryozha is cooking up some dangerous ideas against the government, ideas which are called &quot;Trotskiyite&quot; and bourgeois.  We never find out any real specifics about the ideas Seryozha and his friend Katya are writing down; these two young people are firmly devoted to Socialism, Marxism, and Communism, and certainly don't want to overthrow the state, but it's never made clear just why Globov, Seryozha's grandmother and teachers, and Marina's lover Karlinskiy are so upset over these ideas when they're never actually gone into in very much detail.  We just know they go against what the masses have been brainwashed into believing is the only way for Socialism to be practised and brought to the rest of the world.  The end of the book is chilling, reminding me very much of the end of the film 'The Inner Circle.'<br />Besides lacking development about Seryozha and Katya's revolutionary ideas, we don't get much in the way of character development.  This is more a book about ideas and the atmosphere in Russia right before Stalin's death, but more character development could have fit in too.  Some of the things referenced in the book without explanation also might not be accessible to the average reader who isn't as familiar with Russian history, culture, or literature as I happen to be, and some of the page numbers on the page referencing Russian historical figures or books made in the text are off by several pages.  For example, a reference to 'Dead Scowls,' where the speaker means 'Dead Souls,' is listed as being found on page 94, but it actually appears on 96.<br />It's not as accessible to the average Western reader as other Russian literature from around this time period, but for someone familiar with the time period and Russian history in general, it's a nice quick read.ver actually gone into in very much detail.  We just know they go against what the masses have been brainwashed into believing is the only way for Socialism to be practised and brought to the rest of the world.  The end of the book is chilling, reminding me very much of the end of the film 'The Inner Circle.'<br />Besides lacking development about Seryozha and Katya's revolutionary ideas, we don't get much in the way of character development.  This is more a book about ideas and the atmosphere in Russia right before Stalin's death, but more character development could have fit in too.  Some of the things referenced in the book without explanation also might not be accessible to the average reader who isn't as familiar with Russian history, culture, or literature as I happen to be, and some of the page numbers on the page referencing Russian historical figures or books made in the text are off by several pages.  For example, a reference to 'Dead Scowls,' where the speaker means 'Dead Souls,' is listed as being found on page 94, but it actually appears on 96.<br />It's not as accessible to the average Western reader as other Russian literature from around this time period, but for someone familiar with the time period and Russian history in general, it's a nice quick read.	2004-07-09
US	32987921	RCJRZXWAABJ4U	0688162835	278750032	The Key Is Lost	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A sweet story about two sisters in hiding	Even though this book was written for preteens, I thoroughly enjoyed reading it as an adult.  I had previously read 'Hide and Seek' for the first time at twelve and 'Anna Is Still Here' at fourteen, and had always vividly remembered them.  I don't find Ida Vos's writing to be the usual kind of simplistic kiddy fare that only children want to read; the characters are memorable, the themes are thought-provoking, and the stories are timeless.  It's also very striking how she always writes in the present tense.  Before I read her first book, I'd had no idea a book could be written in the present tense, or that writing in the present tense makes a more compelling story than the usual style of writing in the past tense.<br />When twelve year old Eva Zilverstijn and her nine year old sister Lisa go into hiding, they are given the fake Huguenot names Marie-Louise and Marie-Jeanne Dutour.  Their parents are also given fake names.  Like the Hartogs in 'Hide and Seek,' the Zilverstijn family are also at first all together in hiding, even with a bunch of friends and relatives, till it becomes too dangerous to all be hiding together.  The Zilverstijns move on to another hiding place, but before long that too becomes dangerous and the parents must hide separately from Eva and Lisa.  Before they leave one another, their mother gives them each identical poems, about her hopes and dreams for them and for what they'll do after liberation.  Each poem is addressed to their fake French names.  We learn at the end of the book that those were the actual poems that Ida Vos and her little sister were given by their own mother before they had to separate, and she included the poem in the book as a way of paying tribute to her.  She says she and her sister would always reread their poems before moving to a different hiding place, and it gave them courage and hope.<br />At first the girls stay with Eduard and Martha, and Martha's obnoxious young niece Trijntje, but things become dangerous and they have to be moved after the police crack down on a group of anti-Hitlerite Germans who have been secretly meeting in the house at night.  They next stay with Big Mie and Skinny Rinus, who are also very good to them, but they also have to leave there after one of the boys who regularly comes over to eat Big Mie's pancakes sees her great-great-grandfather's antique rifles and reports it to his father, who in turn tells the police.  All weapons were supposed to have been turned in by 20 September 1940, and there will most likely be trouble.  The girls' friend Henny, a nurse in the underground, smuggles them to their final hiding place in an ambulance.  For the rest of the war they hide with the sweet kindly puppeteer Amici Enfante, an old friend of theirs, who insists they call him Mr. Ami, since ami is French for \\"friend.\\"<br />Though there is a happy end in this book like in 'Hide and Seek' and 'Anna Is Still Here,' it's not without its sense of loss, of being forced to come to terms with everything bad that has happened.  In real life Ida and her sister were reunited with their parents, but they also lost friends, relatives, their house, and most of their belongings.  And in a book written for this particular age group, who would want a depressing conclusion when there were enough real-life sad endings to stories like this?they have to be moved after the police crack down on a group of anti-Hitlerite Germans who have been secretly meeting in the house at night.  They next stay with Big Mie and Skinny Rinus, who are also very good to them, but they also have to leave there after one of the boys who regularly comes over to eat Big Mie's pancakes sees her great-great-grandfather's antique rifles and reports it to his father, who in turn tells the police.  All weapons were supposed to have been turned in by 20 September 1940, and there will most likely be trouble.  The girls' friend Henny, a nurse in the underground, smuggles them to their final hiding place in an ambulance.  For the rest of the war they hide with the sweet kindly puppeteer Amici Enfante, an old friend of theirs, who insists they call him Mr. Ami, since ami is French for \\"friend.\\"<br />Though there is a happy end in this book like in 'Hide and Seek' and 'Anna Is Still Here,' it's not without its sense of loss, of being forced to come to terms with everything bad that has happened.  In real life Ida and her sister were reunited with their parents, but they also lost friends, relatives, their house, and most of their belongings.  And in a book written for this particular age group, who would want a depressing conclusion when there were enough real-life sad endings to stories like this?	2004-07-09
US	32987921	R3O22ZKC05ERFP	0679774386	538008197	Doctor Zhivago	Books	4	41	53	N	N	Commendable and admirable but ultimately flawed effort	I've been a fan of Pasternak the poet and human being for a long time.  His poetry is beautiful, reflecting his deep love of nature and his native land, and I've always found it moving how in 1947 he befriended the then-fourteen-year-old poet Andrey Voznesenskiy after he sent him some of his poetry, mentoring him and treating him like his equal instead of a stupid kid who worshipped the ground he walked on.  It's a shame I can't be as big an admirer of Pasternak as a novelist, though this book is a very commendable and admirable effort, and certainly isn't badly-written.  The descriptions of nature, for example, are quite beautiful, and it's clear that he loved his native land and was devastated by what befell it following the Revolution.<br />Pasternak was, first and foremost, a very talented and gifted poet, but it's painfully obvious that he didn't have an equal talent for prose.  Maybe if he had written other novels his ability in that genre might have improved, but it remains quite obviously a first and only novel.  Some of the metaphors, similes, and descriptions he uses are lovely, reflecting his talent as a poet, but some just sound and look laughable and embarrassing when in the form of prose.  Some other mistakes are the ones other reviewers have also pointed out-way too much background information on minor characters, no real development of the supposed love story between Yuriy and Lara, let alone on why they got together, no closure of anything at the end, a mostly dead-end and pointless Epilogue and Conclusion (where interesting events begin to be developed but then peter off into nothingness since it's so close to the end there's no time to see them through to their conclusions), characters who disappear for hundreds of pages, too much telling and not enough showing, and way too many coincidences.  It's embarrassing how many times Yuriy or someone else bumps back into someone whom we last saw hundreds of pages ago, a truly minor character in most cases, and that chance meeting years later contributes nothing to the plotline.<br />When they finally get together properly, Yuriy spends more time writing poetry after Lara has fallen asleep than in bed with her, this woman he keeps running into for longer and more significant periods of time, whom he realised he was in love with right before he was kidnapped by the partisans who needed a doctor.  I get absolutely no sense whatsoever of why these two fall in love, no sense of why they get together, no sense of them being in love period when they're finally a couple.  Why do so many writers insist on having the characters fall into one another's arms with barely a word of explaining their feeling or motivations?  There are no love scenes, sex scenes, sweet nothings, nothing that would clearly show them as being a couple madly in love and fated to have gotten together years after having first met.<br />The book should have properly ended at the end of Chapter 15, sparing us the pointless Epilogue and Conclusion.  Then I wouldn't have felt like \\"That's it?\\" at the real end of the book.  We don't even find out what happens to Lara's daughter Katya, and for a man who was heartbroken while watching Lara and Katya's sleigh pass his field of vision twice in the night, knowing he'd never see them again, he sure doesn't act like it once he goes home.  He doesn't go after his family in Paris, he doesn't try to find Lara, he enters a relationship with his childhood friend Marina!  What is that all about?<br />The best part of the book is when Yuriy, Lara, and their friends are all growing up, showing the two different worlds they came from, how Russia was before the Revolution.  I still admire Pasternak both as a writer and a human being, but this book remains a nice story that could have been so much more realistic and convincing had it been written by someone with more experience at writing prose., and that chance meeting years later contributes nothing to the plotline.<br />When they finally get together properly, Yuriy spends more time writing poetry after Lara has fallen asleep than in bed with her, this woman he keeps running into for longer and more significant periods of time, whom he realised he was in love with right before he was kidnapped by the partisans who needed a doctor.  I get absolutely no sense whatsoever of why these two fall in love, no sense of why they get together, no sense of them being in love period when they're finally a couple.  Why do so many writers insist on having the characters fall into one another's arms with barely a word of explaining their feeling or motivations?  There are no love scenes, sex scenes, sweet nothings, nothing that would clearly show them as being a couple madly in love and fated to have gotten together years after having first met.<br />The book should have properly ended at the end of Chapter 15, sparing us the pointless Epilogue and Conclusion.  Then I wouldn't have felt like \\"That's it?\\" at the real end of the book.  We don't even find out what happens to Lara's daughter Katya, and for a man who was heartbroken while watching Lara and Katya's sleigh pass his field of vision twice in the night, knowing he'd never see them again, he sure doesn't act like it once he goes home.  He doesn't go after his family in Paris, he doesn't try to find Lara, he enters a relationship with his childhood friend Marina!  What is that all about?<br />The best part of the book is when Yuriy, Lara, and their friends are all growing up, showing the two different worlds they came from, how Russia was before the Revolution.  I still admire Pasternak both as a writer and a human being, but this book remains a nice story that could have been so much more realistic and convincing had it been written by someone with more experience at writing prose.	2004-07-08
US	32987921	RUFD82NOFTUYV	0738854832	968683838	Isabella: From Auschwitz to Freedom	Books	5	26	26	N	N	The most haunting book I've ever read	I first read this book when I was fifteen, and never for a moment has it left my subconscious.  Even had I never reread it, I would still remember a lot of things about it in vivid detail, and when I do reread it, I am still taken on am emotionally haunting journey.  It has left an eternal imprint on my heart and soul, an eternal echo in my mind.  I'm even seriously considering possibly naming one of my future daughters, when I have kids, Isabella, after this amazing woman.<br />What makes this book different from many other Holocaust books is that most of the chapters are merely fragmented memories and incidents, not full-blown detailed accounts of every little thing that happened, in the death train, in their first day in Auschwitz, what their Barracks were like, their friends in the camp, when they got to eat, what kind of work they were doing, any physical abuse they may have received, nothing but a powerful tale of fragmented memories and incidents.  What makes it so unforgettable is the love between the four remaining sisters, how they stayed together and alive despite incredible odds, buoyed one another's spirits, and stayed alive for one another, because of one another.  Recently I found out on the US Holocaust Memorial Museum's website that the oldest of the sisters, Cipi, was 28 and 29 years old during the eight months she is together with her three younger sisters who later escaped...never once when reading this book would I ever have guessed that the oldest of the sisters was a grown adult woman, nearly thirty years old, old enough to be a mother to Regina, the youngest, since the relationship described is so close-knit and emotional, not at all like I would have pictured a woman that old relating to and caring for a teenage sister and two in their early twenties.  I was so emotionally involved with this book that I felt as though I had lost my own sister when only the three of them manage to run away during the death march, and hoping they had eventually found her, even decades later.  It's that gut-wrenchingly emotional.<br />There are some things about the book that leave me wanting more, like how Isabella doesn't give the ages of all of her siblings (particularly her two older sisters; I was shocked to discover just how old the oldest really was), and how there aren't more chapters dealing with everything that happened in Auschwitz.  But we already have more than enough books dealing with how the newly-arrived prisoners were processed, what kinds of work they were forced to do, and life in the Barracks.  This story is special because of the emotions, love, loyalty, devotion, and delight in life involved, not more concrete details about everything that happened before their liberation.  I also would have liked, in the pictures section, to see what Isabella's brother and two remaining sisters looked like when they got older, a picture of her brother-in-law Jack, a picture of their father, and a mention of the names of her other siblings' spouses and their children.<br />These sisters shared an incredible bonding experience, one which mere words cannot communicate.  This is a beautiful testament to love and the will to survive, even among a group of sisters who weren't all close in age.y found her, even decades later.  It's that gut-wrenchingly emotional.<br />There are some things about the book that leave me wanting more, like how Isabella doesn't give the ages of all of her siblings (particularly her two older sisters; I was shocked to discover just how old the oldest really was), and how there aren't more chapters dealing with everything that happened in Auschwitz.  But we already have more than enough books dealing with how the newly-arrived prisoners were processed, what kinds of work they were forced to do, and life in the Barracks.  This story is special because of the emotions, love, loyalty, devotion, and delight in life involved, not more concrete details about everything that happened before their liberation.  I also would have liked, in the pictures section, to see what Isabella's brother and two remaining sisters looked like when they got older, a picture of her brother-in-law Jack, a picture of their father, and a mention of the names of her other siblings' spouses and their children.<br />These sisters shared an incredible bonding experience, one which mere words cannot communicate.  This is a beautiful testament to love and the will to survive, even among a group of sisters who weren't all close in age.	2004-07-06
US	32987921	RKU7YLP985NEG	080213422X	640122618	The Painted Bird	Books	5	10	19	N	N	Morally irresponsible to candycoat	There seem to be a lot of people out there who feel that life is all bunnies and flowers, and anything that isn't should be hidden away or candycoated.  This book takes place during an era which is morally irresponsible to candycoat.  How else do you get across the horrors that truly took place in most of Europe throughout WWII without seriously insulting and compromising not only truth, history, and reality, but also the memories of those who perished as well as the aging members of that generation who can never forget what they saw and experienced?  The awful things in this book, such as when the young plowboy literally loses his eyes, the scene the unnamed boy witnesses between Quail, Ewka, Makar, and the goat, Rainbow raping the beautiful young Jewish woman, or the pillage and rape-spree the Kalmuks go on, aren't in here to be titilating, but rather because things like that really did happen!  And what kind of disturbed person would feel aroused by any of the brutal sex and violence that take place through the book?<br />Some people dismiss books about WWII and the Holocaust because there are so many of them and they feel that after awhile, it's just repeating the same story over and over again, only with different names and locations.  But this book is rather unique in the genre, in that there isn't one single scene in a death train, death march, ghetto, camp, not even the front lines.  It's told by an unnamed young boy, only six years old when the Nazis invade his native Poland, who is shuttled from caretaker to caretaker.  We don't even know if he's Jewish, a Gypsy, or neither.  From hostile village to hostile village he goes, usually because he's been chased out by either the villagers themselves or the often cruel people he's been staying with.  He learns early on to survive by his wits, in a superstitious world gone even madder with war.  As an innocent, he cannot understand what is truly going on all around him, so there is none of the inner emotional and psychological turmoil we often see in other books about this time period.  He finally comes to discover that being nice, staying out of the way, even constantly praying, didn't help him one iota.  When he witnesses the scene between Ewka, Makar, Quail, and the goat in the barn, he realises what it means to be in league with the Devil and what evil is.  The boy now knows that being nice didn't get him anywhere, and the only people he's been around who got things accomplished were evil, so he decides he must become evil too, become like one of his oppressors in order to succeed.  It's understandable, given that he can barely remember anything but evil and suffering.  And already he's become so traumatised by all he's gone through that he has just shut down and become a mute, though of course he's far too young to realise the reasons why that happened to him.  And when the war finally ends, he has become so used to being evil and on the run that he doesn't know how to adjust to a normal life again, one of the great tragedies of any war.<br />I don't know enough about the man to know whether or not Jerzy Kosinski was indeed guilty of plagiarism or lying about his life history, and if so, how much or how little, but that doesn't change the fact that this is a work of fiction, perhaps loosely based on his experiences as a young boy during the war.  I'd see where critics get off had this been billed as a memoir, or a work of fiction said to be strongly based on his own life, but it remains a novel.  If this is a fraud, then every fictional account of a historical event that really happened is a fraud too, as well as novels loosely based on something that may have happened in the author's own life.  It's a powerful, moving, unforgettable book, whether it be fiction or partial autobiography.psychological turmoil we often see in other books about this time period.  He finally comes to discover that being nice, staying out of the way, even constantly praying, didn't help him one iota.  When he witnesses the scene between Ewka, Makar, Quail, and the goat in the barn, he realises what it means to be in league with the Devil and what evil is.  The boy now knows that being nice didn't get him anywhere, and the only people he's been around who got things accomplished were evil, so he decides he must become evil too, become like one of his oppressors in order to succeed.  It's understandable, given that he can barely remember anything but evil and suffering.  And already he's become so traumatised by all he's gone through that he has just shut down and become a mute, though of course he's far too young to realise the reasons why that happened to him.  And when the war finally ends, he has become so used to being evil and on the run that he doesn't know how to adjust to a normal life again, one of the great tragedies of any war.<br />I don't know enough about the man to know whether or not Jerzy Kosinski was indeed guilty of plagiarism or lying about his life history, and if so, how much or how little, but that doesn't change the fact that this is a work of fiction, perhaps loosely based on his experiences as a young boy during the war.  I'd see where critics get off had this been billed as a memoir, or a work of fiction said to be strongly based on his own life, but it remains a novel.  If this is a fraud, then every fictional account of a historical event that really happened is a fraud too, as well as novels loosely based on something that may have happened in the author's own life.  It's a powerful, moving, unforgettable book, whether it be fiction or partial autobiography.	2004-05-18
US	32987921	R2N833PU8G5VEY	0140369678	590369588	Grace in the Wilderness: After the Liberation 1945-1948	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Good, but missing something	(Actually, this is a 4.5 star rating.)<br />This is a very memorable book, like the first book 'Upon the Head of the Goat' (I read them both at age fifteen, in the spring of 1995, haven't reread them yet, and yet can still vividly rememeber a lot of names, details, and events from both as though I'd only finished reading them yesterday).  However, in hindsight it seems as though something is missing, and not just all of the friends and family members who were killed by the Nazis.  A lot of sequels to books that were about the Shoah, whether fiction or memoir, or whether the characters were in camps, ghettos, in hiding, or just continually on the run, are kind of a letdown.  A lot of intense things happened before, what with daily deprivations, increasing regulations, friends, neighbours, and relatives murdered, taken into ghettos, camps, prisons, and death marches, but the sequels to such books seem more like a routine tale of life after the War, no constant \\"What's going to happen next?\\" now that the danger is past and the Allies have assumed protective control of the European nations.  Though this book, while being guilty of being mundane in comparison with what went before, is one of the better sequels.<br />The early part of the book is the most compelling, during the final days Piri and her older sister Iboya spend at Bergen-Belsen before the liberation.  Piri is very sick and has to spend a long time in the makeshift hospital the Allies set up, and then she and Iboya are off to Sweden to begin new lives, along with their friend Dora (who lost her mother about six months after they were taken to the camp they were in, and is now an einer allen, or one alone in the world) and the two Berger girls, the daughters of the woman who pulled Piri into line with them after she had been selected to stay behind in the camp since she was so weak.  Mrs. Berger switched Piri with another woman who had been marching with them in the f&uuml;nfferreihe (row of five prisoners).  They meet a lot of fellow survivors in Sweden, including Herschel, who becomes Dora's boyfriend, and David, who becomes Piri's boyfriend for a short time.  Piri and Iboya also discover that one of their four sisters, Etu, has survived too.  Etu was living in their old house in Hungary, along with her new husband Geza, but now she wants to go to Palestine, where David and several of his friends are also going.<br />Maybe it's shellshock or denial, but in hindsight I don't really recall some of the strong emotions displayed in other after-the-war narratives present in Piri or Iboya, at least not for long stretches of time, just an occasional moment of reflection that they almost didn't have one another, or remembering back to something awful that happened, like how Piri lost her best friend Judi.  I know that no news was usually bad news, and the longer there was no news, the worse it probably was, but where is the frantic searching for their other relatives that I see so often in other memoirs of this sort, even denying that they died and that maybe the Red Cross got it wrong?  Other survivors even hold out hope for decades that that other person miraculously survived and is alive somewhere, constantly wondering, placing ads, asking everyone they see in refugee centers or walking by on the road after liberation.  When do they even attempt to look for R&oacute;zsi, Lilli, L&aacute;jos, Manci, even their stepfather, or try to find out what happened to them if they're pretty sure they're dead?  Piri suggests looking for their stepfather, but Iboya says if he survived the Russian pow camp, he knew what happened and wouldn't think any of them survived.  So they won't even look for him so that if he DID survive, he'd know at least Piri, Etu, and Iboya are all still alive?  Only towards the end does Piri finally seem to be hit by the full emotional impact of what has happened.  I also, in hindsight, don't agree with how they decided to go to America to be with some aunt they've never met, over staying in their new haven in Sweden, among all of their friends and surrogate family, or going to Palestine with Etu.  Etu hasn't been in any camps, but at least she has more of a shared sense of what they had to suffer through, far more than some relative they've never met in America will ever!  And why wouldn't they want to be reunited with their only sibling left, the way Etu wanted it to be?  Also, Piri and Iboya obviously went through a lot together, yet Piri is content to live with a childless older couple who adopts her, while Iboya is away living in some type of workers' dormitory?  In other narratives I've read, the friends or siblings who went through that sort of thing together were inseparable; they wouldn't have been okay with going in different directions so soon after that intense bonding experience.  They came so close to losing one another before, so why live apart instead of sticking extremely close together?  The other survivors I've read postwar books by want to be close together for comfort and reassurance that they're still there and together; they wouldn't be fine with splitting up!<br />I also would have liked to have had at least one chapter dealing with their new life in America, or maybe just one devoted to the emotional turmoil within.  It is one of the better postwar books out there, but still leaves something lacking, both in emotions and in the rather bland life they lead in Sweden after getting used to their new home.over staying in their new haven in Sweden, among all of their friends and surrogate family, or going to Palestine with Etu.  Etu hasn't been in any camps, but at least she has more of a shared sense of what they had to suffer through, far more than some relative they've never met in America will ever!  And why wouldn't they want to be reunited with their only sibling left, the way Etu wanted it to be?  Also, Piri and Iboya obviously went through a lot together, yet Piri is content to live with a childless older couple who adopts her, while Iboya is away living in some type of workers' dormitory?  In other narratives I've read, the friends or siblings who went through that sort of thing together were inseparable; they wouldn't have been okay with going in different directions so soon after that intense bonding experience.  They came so close to losing one another before, so why live apart instead of sticking extremely close together?  The other survivors I've read postwar books by want to be close together for comfort and reassurance that they're still there and together; they wouldn't be fine with splitting up!<br />I also would have liked to have had at least one chapter dealing with their new life in America, or maybe just one devoted to the emotional turmoil within.  It is one of the better postwar books out there, but still leaves something lacking, both in emotions and in the rather bland life they lead in Sweden after getting used to their new home.	2004-05-17
US	32987921	R2OQ3ZQIRLYVYC	0684801469	11530247	A Farewell To Arms	Books	2	5	11	N	N	As much depth as paper dolls	This was one of the most boring books I've read recently.  I'd only read a few of Hemingway's short stories before this, and I liked them, so I wasn't prepared for his novels to be such a step down.  I'm not denying he was brilliant, but at short stories, not the longer form.  I'm even willing to read more of his books to see if it's true that not all of his books are as flat and boring as this one and certain others.  I think the most advanced word in this book is \\"silhouette\\"; the rest reads like a story a third grader could have come up with, though even a third grader could write a more complex story, with more complex words and emotions.  The only exciting and involving part of the book for me was after page 200, when Henry is escaping from being shot together with the other soldiers, holding on to the piece of driftwood and floating through the river.  After he reached the hotel it got boring again, and there were still a bit over a hundred pages left to go.<br />I felt absolutely nothing for these people.  They had about as much depth as paper dolls, and it doesn't help matters any that they rarely say more than ten words at a time to one another.  Catherine talks like a two year old, \\"Ooh, I love you, do you love me?  I love you, darling.  Why don't we get married?\\"  Even a Barbie doll would have more depth of emotion if it came to life!  At best I felt bad for the baby for maybe five seconds at most.  A thirteen year old couple in love could do a better and more mature job of expressing their feelings for one another.  And the prose just drags; nearly every passage reads something like \\"It was cold.  It was dark.  It was raining again.  The train began to move.  I was cold.  I poured myself a tenth glass of cognac.\\"  Not exactly prose that leaps off of the page and makes you feel emotionally involved with the characters.<br />The love story was also a far stretch.  Wasn't Catherine going with Henry's pal Rinaldi when they first met?  And already on their first excuse of a date they're declaring they love one another, even though Henry admits to himself he doesn't really love her.  I rolled my eyes; not another love story lacking discernable motivation, like the ones in 'Anna Karenina' or 'Doctor Zhivago'!  (Although at least I felt emotionally involved with those characters, even though their love stories weren't given much explanation in the way of motivation.)  God forbid there might have been any sexual or romantic tension instead of having characters fall into one another's arms after barely saying five words to one another.<br />There are some nice descriptive pieces in here, and I really liked the part where Henry is escaping, but other than that it just falls flat.  After this disappointment, it will be awhile before I choke down another Hemingway novel.  I hope it's true that not all of his books are as boring and lifeless as this one was.rst excuse of a date they're declaring they love one another, even though Henry admits to himself he doesn't really love her.  I rolled my eyes; not another love story lacking discernable motivation, like the ones in 'Anna Karenina' or 'Doctor Zhivago'!  (Although at least I felt emotionally involved with those characters, even though their love stories weren't given much explanation in the way of motivation.)  God forbid there might have been any sexual or romantic tension instead of having characters fall into one another's arms after barely saying five words to one another.<br />There are some nice descriptive pieces in here, and I really liked the part where Henry is escaping, but other than that it just falls flat.  After this disappointment, it will be awhile before I choke down another Hemingway novel.  I hope it's true that not all of his books are as boring and lifeless as this one was.	2004-04-29
US	32987921	R2ZL3SI46S81DF	0425182207	587443023	The Literary Baby Name Book	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Great gathering-together of literary names	I've always been interested in unusual names (though for girls more so than boys); in fact, the two girls' names which have been my favourites the longest are Easter and Echo.  This book is for those of us who wouldn't mind naming a child Desdemona, Calliope, Lysander, or Perseus.  The names in this book come from Shakespeare, Boccaccio, Dante, myths from Greece, Rome, Ireland, and Norway, and many other poems, plays, and novels from throughout history.  Instead of having to look all over a bunch of books, like Shakespeare, Greek mythology, and 'The Decameron,' for example, you have all of these names right here, alphabetised and with little synopses of who this character was and what s/he did.  Though the people who are into names like MacMadisonleigh and Quaitlynne probably won't like the names in this book, but who can argue with taste?	2004-04-27
US	32987921	R1ZIFH4O4H3GX8	1884997074	529159154	The Play of God: Visions of the Life of Krishna	Books	5	7	7	N	N	The many faces of the Divine	I read this book at the age of twenty-two, having been deeply interested in Eastern religions (including Hinduism) since studying them in my Global Studies class at age fourteen.  This book reawakened my interest in Hinduism, particularly the Krishna sect.  Vishnu had always been my favourite of the three major Hindu gods, since he preserves life, so it was a real treat to read a book about his eighth and greatest/most popular avatar.  Most people in the Western world are used to imagining God (who is incorporeal anyway, anthropomorphisms aside) as an old man and stern judge and king, but the Krishna story teaches one how to relate to the Divine on so many other different levels.  The people in Krishna's life see him as a baby, sneaky little boy, lover, dear friend, guardian and saviour of his village in boyhood, young cowherd, daring hero, father, husband, grandfather, warrior, charioteer, teacher, bestower of enlightenment, brother, grandfather, godfather, uncle, and the list goes on and on.  Viewing him in these multifaceted ways is so much more emotional and personal a view of the Divine than the tired old image in the West of a stern old man with a long white beard and golden trident.  And unlike Christians and their belief in Jesus, the author, Ms. Vanamali, says that Hindus would hardly care if it came to be shown that Krishna as an actual historical person did not exist and he were just a myth or wild elaboration on an important figure who really did exist those thousands of years ago in ancient India.  It's what Krishna taught, what he represents, that matters, not whether these beautiful lessons came from a real man who lived long ago in the past, a man whose life story has become mostly the work of myth, or someone who is entirely a fictitious creation.  Vishnu decided to take on this avatar for the same reason he always decides to take on a human (or earlier, animal) avatar-not to try to save the world and to redeem humanity from sinning, but to help people, to teach them, to be a hero when a very horrible time is upon the world and they need someone to get rid of that evil (in this instance, Krishna's evil uncle Kamsa, and in the incarnation just prior to Krishna, the horrible demon king Ravana).<br />I find it really beautiful, touching, and true what Krishna says to his dear friend Arjuna during the course of the sermon which has come to be known as the Bhagavad Gita.  He, Krishna, Vishnu, has many names and forms to many different people; one need not be a Hindu to properly worship him or to find enlightenment.  However one sees the Divine, be it Krishna, Jesus, the Tao, Great Spirit, the Goddess, the traditional Western view of God, kanji, local spirits, a special rock, even the broader realms of Nature or Science, is how he will come to that person, and in that guise he is being worshipped.  Krishna acknowledges that there are many paths to him, none of them incorrect if approached with a pure and devout heart.  If only more people would care to learn this beautiful ancient story, there might be less religious intolerance and bigotry in the world and more love and understanding.  If God can understand that all of these different religions ultimately lead up to the same Divinity, then why can't ordinary human beings?ple, to teach them, to be a hero when a very horrible time is upon the world and they need someone to get rid of that evil (in this instance, Krishna's evil uncle Kamsa, and in the incarnation just prior to Krishna, the horrible demon king Ravana).<br />I find it really beautiful, touching, and true what Krishna says to his dear friend Arjuna during the course of the sermon which has come to be known as the Bhagavad Gita.  He, Krishna, Vishnu, has many names and forms to many different people; one need not be a Hindu to properly worship him or to find enlightenment.  However one sees the Divine, be it Krishna, Jesus, the Tao, Great Spirit, the Goddess, the traditional Western view of God, kanji, local spirits, a special rock, even the broader realms of Nature or Science, is how he will come to that person, and in that guise he is being worshipped.  Krishna acknowledges that there are many paths to him, none of them incorrect if approached with a pure and devout heart.  If only more people would care to learn this beautiful ancient story, there might be less religious intolerance and bigotry in the world and more love and understanding.  If God can understand that all of these different religions ultimately lead up to the same Divinity, then why can't ordinary human beings?	2004-04-26
US	32987921	R3F96JFJUN6MWQ	0399501487	502818647	Lord of the Flies	Books	3	6	10	N	N	One of the few assigned works of lit I disliked	I normally loved the books I was assigned to read in my English classes, and never understood why so many other people were complaining about and trashing on the great books we were reading (probably because they hated anything they had to read and I've been reading since the age of three).  But not this book.  I just found it boring and unrealistic, slow to get into and then still slow once I'd gotten into it.  The icing on the cake for me in my dislike of this book was when my ninth grade English teacher (who does this with this, her favourite book, for all of the classes she's had before and since mine, which was 1994-95) gave us a little lesson on the symbolism of this book.<br />I don't have a problem with symbols or allegory in a book, and thank God I've forgotten most of the symbols in this book (and in the other books she taught us).  It's interesting to realise, for example, that the conch symbolises order, but how is that going to give you some sort of epiphany while reading the book?  And everything in this book is a symbol-Piggy's glasses, some kid's scar, the obnoxiously-termed \\"littluns,\\" the conch, fire, Simon, the decapitated head of the pig, you name it.  Could we be any less subtle?  I, like most of the other students who had this woman for English, regardless of our respective religions, had no problem with the fact that Simon is supposed to represent Jesus, but the way our teacher presented this information made the Biblical account of Jesus's life and crucifixion seem like (no pun intended) the Gospel truth, telling it to us as though that's exactly how it happened, based on nothing but the Biblical account and not any opinions by scholars which might challenge the old view.  Her little lesson broke the Establishment Clause, and every time I see this book, I think back with revulsion and anger to that uncomfortable May day when she gave us that religious sermon in a public school.<br />Getting back to the book, it's incredibly unrealistic how these well-bred English schoolboys, none of them over the age of twelve, devolve into savage, unreasonable, wild, uncontrollable, murderous, unrestrained beasts after maybe two or three weeks on this island.  It's one thing for a sadist like Roger or a bully like Jack to go that way, but all of these boys, so quickly forgetting their high-class upbringings and education, losing hope of being rescued that soon and turning to setting fires and allegorically raping sows?  Maybe if they were older, or maybe if twenty years or so had passed, then it would seem believable for them to descend into animal madness due to being stranded on an island.  All humans have these primal base instincts within, but surely they're not brought to the surface after so short a period of time!  They should have still been sending signal fires, making shelters, and looking for fruit and water sources by the time the deus ex machina ending rolls around, not chasing one another around wearing pig's blood on their faces, brandishing spears, ghoulishly chanting \\"Kill the pig!  Spill her blood!,\\" talking to decapitated pig's heads, thinking the bogeyman is after them, and all while an out of control fire is raging on their island paradise.  Things don't happen that way.<br />This would have made a more believable story had the events taken place over maybe ten or twenty years, not two or three weeks, so we could see a natural and realistic progression from proper British schoolboys to wild marauding savages.  They're skipping a lot of steps in between.ese well-bred English schoolboys, none of them over the age of twelve, devolve into savage, unreasonable, wild, uncontrollable, murderous, unrestrained beasts after maybe two or three weeks on this island.  It's one thing for a sadist like Roger or a bully like Jack to go that way, but all of these boys, so quickly forgetting their high-class upbringings and education, losing hope of being rescued that soon and turning to setting fires and allegorically raping sows?  Maybe if they were older, or maybe if twenty years or so had passed, then it would seem believable for them to descend into animal madness due to being stranded on an island.  All humans have these primal base instincts within, but surely they're not brought to the surface after so short a period of time!  They should have still been sending signal fires, making shelters, and looking for fruit and water sources by the time the deus ex machina ending rolls around, not chasing one another around wearing pig's blood on their faces, brandishing spears, ghoulishly chanting \\"Kill the pig!  Spill her blood!,\\" talking to decapitated pig's heads, thinking the bogeyman is after them, and all while an out of control fire is raging on their island paradise.  Things don't happen that way.<br />This would have made a more believable story had the events taken place over maybe ten or twenty years, not two or three weeks, so we could see a natural and realistic progression from proper British schoolboys to wild marauding savages.  They're skipping a lot of steps in between.	2004-04-26
US	32987921	R1Z5044GAJ7J5Z	0312278497	51063647	The Glass Bead Game: (Magister Ludi) A Novel	Books	3	7	15	N	N	Too bloated and unclear to enjoy	Hermann Hesse is my second-favourite writer, but this is the only of his eleven novels which I found boring, bloated, and a chore instead of a delight and joy to read.  It's not because it's long (I love long books, the longer the better in fact, and this book is far from the longest book I've ever read), but because there's a lack of focus on a real plot.  Hesse was a master at writing short memorable novels; by the time this one ends, in media res, you get the feeling that he realised he'd created a monster and needed to slay it before things got any further out of control and there were another 400 or so pages dedicated to the life of Joseph Knecht!  All of his other books, even the earlier less-memorable ones like 'Peter Camenzind' and 'Knulp,' can be summed up by giving distinct synopses of what happens in each chapter, or a memorable scene from each chapter.  You don't get that here.  It's so given over to the story of the life of the mind that it loses track of the lively things which make his other books so enjoyable.  I never even made out any sort of plot beyond describing things that happened to Joseph Knecht.  Hesse's other books usually have friendship as one of the important plots, like the friendships shared by Narcissus and Goldmund, Peter Camenzind and the poor cripple Boppi, and Max Demian and Emil Sinclair.  The other characters in this book don't seem to do much in the way of friendship with Knecht besides philosophising.  Father Jacobus would have made a great dramatic foil, but unfortunately he only appears in one chapter and then this potentially great character never shows up again.  Even the most important foil, Plinio, gets bogged down in boring philosophy discussions.  The closest we get here to a story of real human friendship is that between Knecht and the old Music Master, who is his mentor and father figure besides just a friend.  This relationship is truly touching and one of the better parts of the novel.<br />Other problems with this book, besides being overly long and being bogged down in bloated conversations and philosophical meanderings, is that we're never really told how this Glass Bead Game is played.  We get a general sense in the Introduction on its origins, but other than that there's no sense of how it's played, or how Knecht and his friends go about making their own sketches for future Games.  And if it weren't stated in the introduction, I'd have no idea this story takes place in the 23rd century.  A story set in the future doesn't have to be a sci-fi story, but it at least should be obvious that this story isn't set in the present.  Where are all of the future technologies, for example, and where are all of the women?  The only woman in this book is Plinio's wife, who doesn't even have a name.  This book reads like it was written during WWII, which it was, not like a true book about a futurist utopia.  We don't even know who's telling the story; is it an original document, a biography by an Castalian admirer, or a biography from a non-Castalian?<br />I also had a problem with Plinio Designori, the first person to come along and challenge Knecht to reevaluate the monastic and overly intellectual and stagnant lifestyle he's living in Castalia.  After Plinio leaves the school, which he was attending as a privileged outsider, he doesn't return till their college years.  He's offended and hurt that his friendship with Joseph isn't the same as it was before, and then years later, after Knecht has already become the new Magister Ludi, he confesses the depth of his feelings over this matter.  I sympathise with Plinio, since this has happened to most people, but after you get over the wounded ego and hurt feelings, you usually come to realise that it's normal for friends to grow apart and develop other interests, particularly if they've been apart for awhile like he and Joseph were.  People move on.  This was bothering him for twenty whole years?<br />The poetry section and the \\"Three Lives\\" stories are so much better and much faster reading.  I felt the story finally majorly picked up when there were only about 20 more pages left to go, and then bam, it ends so abruptly, in media res, with a lot of unanswered questions.  I think I would have liked this book a whole lot more had it been condensed into maybe 300 pages and given more room to exploring Joseph's relationships with characters like Father Jacobus, Fritz Tegularius, and Carlo Ferromonte.  I can admire Knecht for following his convictions, even though they went against the grain, and coming to these beliefs only after decades of careful thought, but I'd be able to sympathise with him a whole lot more if we got a clear idea of just how he got those beliefs, instead of being bogged down in layers of bloated and superfluous verbiage.es\\" stories are so much better and much faster reading.  I felt the story finally majorly picked up when there were only about 20 more pages left to go, and then bam, it ends so abruptly, in media res, with a lot of unanswered questions.  I think I would have liked this book a whole lot more had it been condensed into maybe 300 pages and given more room to exploring Joseph's relationships with characters like Father Jacobus, Fritz Tegularius, and Carlo Ferromonte.  I can admire Knecht for following his convictions, even though they went against the grain, and coming to these beliefs only after decades of careful thought, but I'd be able to sympathise with him a whole lot more if we got a clear idea of just how he got those beliefs, instead of being bogged down in layers of bloated and superfluous verbiage.	2004-04-21
US	32987921	R2NHOE8FUUQV3X	081840437X	652415915	The Hole in the Sheet: A Modern Woman Looks at Orthodox and Hasidic Judaism	Books	1	22	45	N	N	Thank God it's out of print	I stumbled on this book by accident while looking for some other books in the Judaism section of my university library my senior year.  I decided to check it out, since it certainly looked interesting, to say the least.  This book is a real page-turner and written in a lively manner, but so is Albert Goldman's 'The Lives of John Lennon,' and that book is just as trashy and blatantly untrue as this book, though at least TLOJL does have some truth buried under all of the sensationalism and wildly exaggerated stories based on unverified anecdotes.  This book has even more problems in the truth department.<br />I myself used to be very anti-Orthodox, since I got my picture of that denomination from the crazy fanatics always in the media, flamers and hate-mongers on the Jewish Community boards on aol, and disgruntled women who'd left Orthodoxy, on those same boards.  I never even really knew any Orthodox people until my senior year of college, though my opinion of them had been softening a bit before then.  The people I knew, the Orthodox, Modern Orthodox, Lubavitchers, Traditional Orthodox, etc., are nothing like the horrible people Mrs. Kaye says she grew up around.  I'll give her the benefit of the doubt that she did have a terrible experience growing up, but could it be that adolescent rebellion or a drastic early adulthood break with all of the traditions she was raised with have coloured her perceptions and given her a false hindsight?  None of the Orthodox I've known love embarrassing people, feel it is their duty to embue their kids with discomfort and insecurity, nor are they racists or sexists.  This woman must not know that there are many Jews of colour, black, brown, yellow, tan, etc., and more of them than you'd think are born Jews instead of converts.  She is perpetrating the old myth that only Ashkenazic Jews exist or count, ignoring the many Jews whose origins are not in Eastern or Central Europe but in Italy, Iraq, Iran, Libya, Algeria, China, India, South America, etc.  She also claims that a devout Orthodox Jew violently hates all non-Jews and believes all manner of stereotypes about them, like they're all druggies, drunks, have horrible family lives, and are anti-Semites and untrustworthy.  I'm sorry if she grew up in such a hateful self-imposed ghetto like she says she did, but you can't discredit all of Orthodoxy by just one bad experience, as awful as it was!  She never even thought to try a different community or a different synagogue to see if she might have a more positive experience elsewhere.<br />I myself am not Orthodox, though I feel I have it in me to be if they resolve some of their issues about womens' roles, for example.  I have had only very positive experiences praying, eating, celebrating, and spending time, sometimes overnight, with the Orthodox people I met at college.  Mrs. Kaye obviously had the exact opposite types of experiences, but she grew up in the Forties and Fifties.  I think pretty much women and girls everywhere in America had that type of coming of age experience in that era; Orthodox or not, girls nowadays have a lot more opportunities and aren't overlooked just because they're not boys.  And Orthodoxy has changed a lot in the past 50 years or so; if Mrs. Kaye went back, and lived in a Modern Orthodox community, I'm sure she'd be shocked to find how well-educated the girls are, and how close they are to possibly having an Orthodox female rabbi within the next 50 years.<br />This book has a lot of anger in it, and seems to be written by someone who has unresolved issues.  It would be like a book written by a rape survivor who attacks all men everywhere, or a book by someone who left Catholicism before Vatican II because the atmosphere was too stifling for him/her.  It's not that your issues aren't real and painful, just that you should discuss them with a counselor instead of publishing them in a book before you've even tried to move past your awful past.  Mrs. Kaye can't stop spouting off lies and inaccuracies, being sarcasm and venomous, using superfluous exclamation points and capital letters, or putting words in people's mouths.  She thinks that women who say taharat hamishpacha (family purity) don't really feel like brides again and are only saying the exact same words the rabbis have told them to say.  So then all of these women are lies with no minds of their own.  She doesn't explain the true reasoning behind the morning blessing thanking God for not having made one a woman (it's very misunderstood, and I myself amn't keen on it, but it's not meant as a sexist insult).  She thinks only the Orthodox keep kosher, are shomer Shabbos and Yom Tov, clean the house for Pesach, or live any kind of observant life.  If she wants people to respect her decision to intermarry, be Reform, and completely abandon all Jewish traditions, she should respect people on the exact opposite of the spectrum.  On more than one occasion she completely insults the entire Talmud, and seemingly is ignorant to the fact that not all opinions are that of major rabbis, and if they are, no one opinion is meant to be taken as the only truth, such as on medical views of the time.  That's like wondering why President Washington was bled to death and his doctors laughed at the young doctor who wanted to do a tracheotomy; you're unfairly holding a different era to a modern standard and all of the hindsight and knowledge which has occured since then.  Most insulting of all is that she just can't believe any thinking woman would want to be Orthodox or Hassidic and is a brainwashed liar parroting what men have told her to say, and that these women have given up their minds and are living like ignorant peasant women in isolated African villages.  God forbid an intelligent modern woman should see the beauty in an Orthodox life and decide to join them, and still be a feminist while living a traditional Jewish life.  She is ignorant to the fact that the ketubah is insurance against a bad husband and is much fairer to women than practically every other culture at the time was to women.  And the list goes on and on.<br />Mrs. Kaye sadly doesn't want to leave her preconceived ideas behind her and actually listen to what the other side has to say, without already having her mind made up they're crazy, sexist, or parroting the rabbis.  Like Eleanor Roosevelt said, \\"No one can make you feel inferior without your consent.\\"outing off lies and inaccuracies, being sarcasm and venomous, using superfluous exclamation points and capital letters, or putting words in people's mouths.  She thinks that women who say taharat hamishpacha (family purity) don't really feel like brides again and are only saying the exact same words the rabbis have told them to say.  So then all of these women are lies with no minds of their own.  She doesn't explain the true reasoning behind the morning blessing thanking God for not having made one a woman (it's very misunderstood, and I myself amn't keen on it, but it's not meant as a sexist insult).  She thinks only the Orthodox keep kosher, are shomer Shabbos and Yom Tov, clean the house for Pesach, or live any kind of observant life.  If she wants people to respect her decision to intermarry, be Reform, and completely abandon all Jewish traditions, she should respect people on the exact opposite of the spectrum.  On more than one occasion she completely insults the entire Talmud, and seemingly is ignorant to the fact that not all opinions are that of major rabbis, and if they are, no one opinion is meant to be taken as the only truth, such as on medical views of the time.  That's like wondering why President Washington was bled to death and his doctors laughed at the young doctor who wanted to do a tracheotomy; you're unfairly holding a different era to a modern standard and all of the hindsight and knowledge which has occured since then.  Most insulting of all is that she just can't believe any thinking woman would want to be Orthodox or Hassidic and is a brainwashed liar parroting what men have told her to say, and that these women have given up their minds and are living like ignorant peasant women in isolated African villages.  God forbid an intelligent modern woman should see the beauty in an Orthodox life and decide to join them, and still be a feminist while living a traditional Jewish life.  She is ignorant to the fact that the ketubah is insurance against a bad husband and is much fairer to women than practically every other culture at the time was to women.  And the list goes on and on.  <br />Mrs. Kaye sadly doesn't want to leave her preconceived ideas behind her and actually listen to what the other side has to say, without already having her mind made up they're crazy, sexist, or parroting the rabbis.  Like Eleanor Roosevelt said, \\"No one can make you feel inferior without your consent.\\"	2004-04-21
US	32987921	RN2JVPULSWFGV	0826411029	582859233	Return from Exile: One Woman's Journey Back to Judaism	Books	3	0	0	N	N	This is a return from exile?	Mrs. Orsborn may feel like she rediscovered her Jewish roots and rejoined religious life, but her account doesn't read that way.  First of all, she was involved in a renewal-type synagogue back in California, Shabbos Shul, even though she didn't go there on a regular basis.  It's not as if she were completely assimilated and secular and finally made a return to a devoted Jewish life.  She had a connection, however loose and un-mainstream it was.  And she admits that she only enrolled in VDS to learn more about Judaism for an article on spirituality she was writing.  It's no surprise that she as the average secular American Jew would be sadly lacking in knowledge about her own religion, but she could have solved the problem by doing some reading, spending some time with more observant people, talking with an area rabbi, instead of transplanting her family across the country so she could get a degree at a predominantly Christian divinity school.  Not that there's anything wrong with it, but a more appropriate choice might have been a place such as the University of Judaism, which in Los Angeles would have been a whole lot closer to her home.<br />Her so-called &quot;return to faith&quot; ends up to be nothing more than agonising over whether or not to join your average North American Reform synagogue, Temple Micah, which split from the city's main Reform shul when the rabbi gave a sermon denouncing intermarriage and a lot of the intermarried members walked away.  Mrs. Orsborn herself is intermarried, so it's natural this type of shul would be close to her heart.  She wanted to try out the shuls in her new area, and was on the verge of walking into an Orthodox shul on Rosh Hashanah when she remembered a bad experience she had a long time ago at another Orthodox shul.  So she walks away without bothering to find out if this shul would be completely different.  Though with that attitude, thinking it will be awful without even giving it a chance or keeping an open mind, she probably would have had another bad experience anyway.  At least try it before you decide it's not for you.  Temple Micah is the only shul in the city she goes to, and she almost walks away from that one as well because of how crowded and unspiritual it feels to her during Rosh Hashanah.  I'm glad she was able to join a congregation that spoke to her spirit, but it's a bad idea to pick your house of worship, whatever your religion is, because it's the first and only one of its type you've been to in your area.  She could have tried out the other denominations as well before coming to this conclusion, so she would know what she was rejecting or missing.<br />Overall, this book was a disappointing read.  The characters are composites of actual people, instead of just changing their names and giving us more characters, and some of the events actually took place in her third and fourth years at the school, but she had them happening in her first two years to give us background on her theological and philosophical discoveries and awakening.  Here's a novel idea:  Why not write a book covering all four years she spent there, without composite characters, so we can get more of a full accurate picture of what really went on there?she probably would have had another bad experience anyway.  At least try it before you decide it's not for you.  Temple Micah is the only shul in the city she goes to, and she almost walks away from that one as well because of how crowded and unspiritual it feels to her during Rosh Hashanah.  I'm glad she was able to join a congregation that spoke to her spirit, but it's a bad idea to pick your house of worship, whatever your religion is, because it's the first and only one of its type you've been to in your area.  She could have tried out the other denominations as well before coming to this conclusion, so she would know what she was rejecting or missing.<br />Overall, this book was a disappointing read.  The characters are composites of actual people, instead of just changing their names and giving us more characters, and some of the events actually took place in her third and fourth years at the school, but she had them happening in her first two years to give us background on her theological and philosophical discoveries and awakening.  Here's a novel idea:  Why not write a book covering all four years she spent there, without composite characters, so we can get more of a full accurate picture of what really went on there?	2004-04-14
US	32987921	R1S0MXV09JQCF0	0152878009	639699049	Till the Break of Day: Memories: 1939-1942	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A unique WWII adolescence memoir	This book has always stayed in my mind, probably because it's not your usual memoir of this time period, and because Maia is such a spirited nonconformist tomboy.  Everything you expect in a WWII-era memoir is all but lacking here.  Maia and her family get on a train leaving Poland the very day the Nazis invade, eventually getting to the temporary safety of France, then being smuggled into Vichy France after the Nazis invade France as well, then on into Spain, Portugal, and finally setting sail for America.  They're not living in a Nazi-occupied country for very long; they're not even Jewish or hiding Jews or other enemies of the Nazis, so that expected angle of a book set in this time period is gone.  I've always liked how Maia and her older brother Zbyszek aren't living in fear and terror of the Nazis once they invade France; they're out there playing war with other Polish refugee children, with a stash of weapons found by the fleeing French Army, slashing tires, taking an oath to never speak a word of French (at least while they're in France) and to not speak to any French person, in any language, so long as the war goes on, and engaging in all kinds of attempted sabotage.  Maia even counterfeits money when they're in Portugal.  And when they're fleeing Warsaw in the beginning, Maia's oppositional streak shines through when she alone refuses to take cover when a bomber flies right over the train they were on and shoots all around her as she's standing right out in the open.  My favourite part is when she and Zbyszek have snuck one of the abandoned guns and some ammo into their apartment and are about to start mowing down the conquering Germans from their upper-level porch when their mother sees and wrestles it away from them.  Maia's an incredible heroine in an incredible and unique book.	2004-04-09
