US	33072451	RFHMQETWRQYTV	0440226686	357613801	Blood and Chocolate	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Faster paced than Seabiscuit	If you like predictable books then this one is NOT for you. But if you like fast-paced, original and interesting books about the paranormal, especially werewolves, then--BINGO!--you're in luck. <br /> <br />This is the second Annette Curtis Klause book I have read. I didn't mind the first one too much, The Silver Kiss, but I wasn't really thrilled by it. However, this book is much better than that one was. Blood and Chocolate, written years later, proves that this writer has, like a good bottle of wine, really improved with time. <br /> <br />This isn't the perfect novel, but it's still pretty damned good. It's pretty damned sexy, too! There's a lot of sexual tension in the story. If you're looking for a straight love story, where two people meet, fall in love and have a predictably happy ending, then you might find this a little uncomfortable. I mean, there's still a happy ending, and a logical one too, with a lot of love and sensuality involved, but it's a little unconventional and unexpected. Personally, I really liked it. I liked the realism of the werewolves, too...no Hollywood cliches here. The author did her research well, and captured the real essence of wolves: their characteristics, their inter-relationships with one another, even their personal habits. <br /> <br />I suggest that you take this book for a ride...it's a fast one, and at the end, you'll probably want to go again!	2005-10-04
US	33072451	R3JCYK6UJD1ACB	044100928X	433447844	Summers at Castle Auburn	Books	5	2	2	N	N	I LOVED this book so much!	A beautiful, intricately crafted, magical and uplifting masterpiece...this sort of writing gives fantasy books a GOOD name!  <br /> <br />This book is billed as 'romantic', and if you have a brain then you'll notice as you're reading it that it truly is, albeit in a subtle way, but if you're a fan of 'Mills and Boon' type ultra-mushy, in-your-face romances then perhaps this is NOT for you. This is a REALISTICALLY written fantasy romance, set in a medieval setting, which embraces many of the realities of life in such times: the fact was, back then, nobles usually married for wealth or power, not for love. (If you look back at the history of the British aristocracy, you'll see multitudinous examples of this, even in fairly recent times...Charles loved Camilla, but still had to marry Diana.) That said, there is still more than a hint of romance in this, and all's well that ends well. And as a bonus, it's veritably oozing with passion and intrigue, too. <br /> <br />Perhaps this book is a mite predictable at times, but this did not detract in any way from my enjoyment of it. Rather, it was like when you book a holiday: you know where you're going to end up, but the journey there is still lots of fun and full of delightful surprises. And perhaps the dialogue was a little too Americanised for a medieval setting, too, but it was so compelling that I immediately forgave it this small fault.  <br /> <br />There is also an intriguing subplot about a magical race of beings being held as slaves by the aristocrats at the castle, and I must admit, I cried, moved not only by their plight, but by their grace and dignity as well. There's a lot more to this book than just romance or fantasy. This book has a soul as well. <br /> <br />This is SO much better than Ms Shinn's other book, The Shapechanger's Wife. The world-building and character development in this were a million times better...I totally believed in the people and the settings. In spite of the fantastical, magical setting, this still had a 'it could actually happen' feel to it, it was so well done. There was a multitude of characters nicely interwoven into the plot, and they were all individual and plausible, with well-developed instincts, reactions and personality traits. And no one was entirely good or evil...like in real life, there were many shades of grey...the 'baddies' still did good things, or had their reasons for being bad, and even the goodies did bad things sometimes.   <br /> <br />I got so addicted to this book I couldn't put it down, not even to go to sleep. But who needs sleep, right? The red, tired eyes were well-worth it! And I was actually so impressed by this book, I'll be buying another copy of it to give away as a Christmas present. I think that says it all...	2005-10-04
US	33072451	R1V5T9C7HVU3ZY	014240053X	587669036	Lionclaw: Tale of Rowan Hood (Rowan Hood (Paperback))	Books	3	4	6	N	N	The Rowan Hood series continues, straight downhill...	Sadly, this second book in the Rowan Hood series just isn't very good. I didn't find it overly exciting, or very well-written, either. It's exceptionally short, too, at only 122 pages, but that's probably a good thing: I know it's set in a forest, but if I had to read one more paragraph of 'filler' material describing every leaf and aspect of the forest in painstakingly fine detail I was going to scream. Yes, this book is set in a forest, I get that, but there's no need to constantly rub my face in it! Enough already! More time should have been spent on developing characters, action, plot and dialogue, and less on pointless, cumbersome background descriptions.  <br /> <br />What really bugged me most of all, though, was this author's love of using the word 'scud'. She constantly talked about the scudding clouds. And it wasn't just the clouds scudding, either...on one page she also wrote both 'the moon scudding amid clouds' and 'scudding moonlit sky'. Now, my dictionary defines 'scud' as \\"to move along fast and smoothly\\". Personally, I've never seen either the moon or the moonlit sky moving along fast and smoothly, have you? Perhaps this writer needs to learn what words mean before she uses them so frequently! <br /> <br />This is a passable book, but nothing special. The young-uns'll probably like it, if they're not too demanding. I suppose if you've already read the first in the series and enjoyed it, you might want to keep going, to see how the story pans out. But I doubt this episode of the saga will rock your world.	2005-09-29
US	33072451	R3HJBML5M4WKR6	1553164938	521032001	Beaudry's Ghost	Books	2	11	17	N	N	A book haunted by its MANY flaws	I bought this book thinking it would be wonderful, based on the glowing reviews I'd read about it on Amazon. However, when I held it in my hot little hands, flipped it over and noticed that the critic's recommendation on the back was written by one Harriet Klausner, I was immediately filled with trepidation. You might be familiar with Ms Klausner's reviews...she does a LOT of them on Amazon, and without fail, no matter how bad the book is that she's reviewing, she ALWAYS praises it. In fact, it seems that the worse the book is, the better she usually rates it. (Seriously, she would give the Ebola virus a good review!) Sorry, Harriet, but the role of a critic (as the title suggests) is to CRITICISE things, especially when they're bad. If you praise everything indiscriminately, then your praise is worth nothing. <br /> <br />Anyway, my initial trepidation turned out to be well founded. Sadly, this book was pretty crappy. It may have won the 2002 Independent Publisher Award for Best Romance, but that's probably not saying much: generally, independent publishers only publish the books that the real publishers have already rejected, so it's like saying it's the best of all the small and inadequate fish a fisherman rejected and threw back in the water.  <br /> <br />I'll admit, this book does have a few good things going for it: the writer does seem to have a real passion for, and understanding of, the background to this novel--the Civil War, and the re-enacting of it. She's done some good research. She has also created a strong, capable heroine, who saves the hero from time to time, which is refreshing in a romance. But other than that, this is a deeply flawed, even irritating work. The writing style is very pedestrian, inelegant, unstructured, fraught with errors, and plagued with inconsistencies and logic gaps. The plotline too is shabby, and often contradicts itself. And the characters are at times almost schizophrenic in the way their motivations, traits, impulses and minds change back and forth. Worst of all, though, the character of Beaudry the ghost did not at all seem like someone from 1862. His dialogue was jarringly modern, full of terms like 'automatically' (was anything automated back in 1862?) and 'appetizer', and phrases such as 'like a balloon on a string just waiting to be jerked' (did they even have balloons back in 1862?). Plus, the writer actually describes one of the ghosts in the story as 'releasing his breath'...since when do ghosts exhale, or need to breathe at all? And there's some plot twists I didn't entirely understand, too, like when the heroine gets shot in the shoulder...at first she notices sharp, overwhelming pain in her shoulder; then the next moment she doesn't seem to feel it at all, and the wound goes unmentioned for about the next day or so (even though she's covered in blood); then suddenly she notices it again, and the pain is suddenly excruciating, to the point where she's passing out and losing the use of her arm; she is then surprised to discover that she has a bullet wound in her shoulder, and that the blood covering her is her own. Huh? That doesn't seem possible, for someone to not even know they've been shot, and for the pain of a major wound to just disappear and then reappear like that! Personally, if I'd been shot in the shoulder and suffered severe pain and blood loss, I'd notice it! And I wouldn't just forget about it for a day, then act all surprised to find that I'm in pain and covered with my own blood from a gaping, infected wound! One can only assume that the writer wrote this incredulous bit of storyline that way so that the heroine could suddenly swoon into the hero's arms and let him take her clothes off to treat the heretofore unnoticed but suddenly life-threatening wound. Couldn't the writer find a more plausible way for the heroine to end up naked in the hero's arms? Romance is about mutual attraction, and a well-matched couple shouldn't need an insane plot twist to endup naked together! <br /> <br />Sadly, this book started out okay but got worse. And I really hated the ending, since I don't find the idea of corpse-snatching and killing innocent bystanders appealing. Still, I suppose the ending did leave the door open to a sequel...though I won't be buying it! I've had more than enough of this story already, thanks! Furthermore, my opinion of the book was not helped by it being full of typos, either. The publishing company did a hammy job: there's words missing, extra words mistakenly added in, inaccurate grammar (i.e. 'taught' instead of 'taut', 'gravely' instead of 'gravelly', etc.) The editing was sloppier than custard. For the exorbitant price I paid for this book, I expected better quality work. <br /> <br />I got the feeling the writer of this book perhaps read a few too many romance novels and decided she could write one too. WRONG! Sadly, this is a classic example of how NOT to write a romance novel. It could have been a great book--after all, it's based on a very intriguing concept. But the writer's lack of skill failed it, leaving it only a ghost of what it could have been.	2005-09-22
US	33072451	R33AYMYE217JBP	0618056017	47306115	Straw Into Gold	Books	1	3	16	N	N	If Ned Flanders rewrote Rumplestiltskin (-diddley)...	Sorry, but this story isn't just boring, drawn-out and poorly written, it's also Christian propoganda loosely disguised as a fairytale. Don't get me wrong, I'm NOT anti-Christian, I'd just rather have some advance warning if someone is going to try to shove religion down my throat in the guise of a kids' book!!! There are frequent Christian religious messages in this, including one about how in life nothing happens by chance, only by 'design'. ('Intelligent Design', perhaps?) Even Rumplestiltskin's magic is explained away as a gift from God, I assume so that it will appeal more to the 'anti-Harry Potter lobby' with their 'magic is satanic' stance. Since reading this, I've found out that the writer of this book has also published some Bible stories and a story about a saint...this book isn't much different from those works in that it reads more like a religious parable than a fairy tale. Sorry, but I didn't want to buy a deeply religious book, I wanted a magical fairytale, and I resent the fact that I wasn't prewarned about exactly what I was buying. Christianity may have some good lessons to teach, but this wasn't the appropriate time or place to preach them. <br /> <br />But that isn't even my main qualm about this book...my biggest problem is that it's so BORING, and very badly written. Really, this should have been about fifty or more pages shorter; it's been overstuffed with pointless filler and repetition and excrutiating detail...I mean, this author goes on and on about the weather, and the oatmeal they had for breakfast EVERY DAY, and the pine trees, and so on, over and over and over, ad nauseum. And if he talked about 'milk that was still warm from the cow' one more time I was going to scream! He loved that expression so much, he did it to death. Some people find comfort in excessive repetition; I'm not one of them. I believe that only bad writers, ones who lack imagination or who are stuck in a rut, write like that.  There were other problems with the book,too: the boys in the story are only about 11 years old, but they seem much older; one of the boys is blind, and yet almost no mention is ever made of this disability's effects on his life...he is able to ride a horse and hike through snow and skate and climb stairs and dance and find his way, all apparently without any help. And the writing style in this book is flowery and 'romantic', so much so that it was almost hard to believe that it was written by a man...or so I thought until I got to all the unnecessarily gory bits of the story: there's lots of blood and guts and brutality. But the worst fault with this book, the one that I cannot forgive, is that Rumplestiltskin is a chain smoker...he always seems to be smoking a pipe. The book even describes his 'sweet tobacco smell' which his adopted son loves. Huh? Since when did it become okay to glamourise smoking tobacco in a kids' book? Tobacco does not smell sweet, it smells gross and makes a lot of people sick! The writer of this book seems keen to spread the message of Christianity and love and giving, and yet here he is promoting the deadly habit of smoking to children! It reeks of hypocrisy and a questionable conscience. <br /> <br />While I was reading this book, I counted down the pages like a prisoner counting down the days to his release from jail...I couldn't wait for it to be over. It was a waste of a day, reading this. I would not recommend it to anyone. If you want a GOOD version of the Rumplestiltskin tale, get hold of Vivian Vande Velde's 'The Rumplestiltskin Problem'. It's well written and not at all preachy. Or for the younger readers (and the young at heart) try 'Rumplestiltskin's Daughter' by Diane Stanley, which is a wonderful, fun read.	2005-09-09
US	33072451	R31L29API64DIQ	0395900123	533127862	A Coming Evil	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A gripping tale from a great writer	This is my favourite of all the Vivian Vande Velde books I've read so far...and that's saying something! I loved it. Once I started it, I couldn't put it down. I really felt for Lisette and the awful situation she found herself in, being sent away during wartime without her parents, banished to the south of France to live with not only her aunt, but also her bratty control-freak of a cousin and a motley collection of strange children that her aunt had given refuge to. It seemed to her as if her life could not get any worse...and yet it did, and she was forced to take action... <br /> <br />Lisette is a wonderful, brave, intelligent heroine who I found utterly believable and likeable. The other characters in the book are similarly realistic, multi-dimensional and compelling, and in the end, even the bratty cousin was redeemed by her bravery and compassion for others. These are ordinary people being forced to deal with extraordinary situations, and the author never loses sight of their human strengths and weaknesses. Such was the utter realism of this story that I had no trouble accepting the paranormal side of this tale--a ghost coming to life through his interaction and friendship with Lisette. <br /> <br />I liked the way the author made comparisons between the way the Knights Templar were treated in medieval times, and the way the people of France were treated by the Nazis. It's a stirring reminder that even though centuries may pass, unfortunately people don't necessarily learn from the mistakes and injustices of history...the fight for freedom, for religious and racial tolerance, and for human rights is an ongoing one, even in today's society. Fortunately, though, this book doesn't suffer from any preachiness in teaching us this lesson, but remains a wonderful, quick-paced, exciting read that even people who couldn't care less about history will enjoy.  <br /> <br />I'd recommend this book to adults as well as kids, not only because of the maturity of its writing, but also because it's just so good!	2005-09-04
US	33072451	RZRKR89VW9J8A	014130314X	187259342	The Storyteller's Daughter	Books	5	0	0	N	N	One storyteller's triumph!	What a gorgeous book this is; well written, with realistic characters and fabulous wit and humour...it's hard to believe this book is so hard to get hold of thesedays, especially when lesser books are so freely available. Publishers, eh? Go figure... <br /> <br />Although set in the days of Prohibition and the Great Depression, when no one had much money, and jobs were very hard to come by (very dark days indeed!) this is nonetheless one of the most joyful and uplifting tales I've ever read, a true case of finding a silver lining even on the darkest of clouds. Quinn is a truly inspiring heroine, and her family and friends are amazing. In spite of the adverse conditions they face in their lives, they all make the best of it, and find their own fun...their sense of humour is never diminished. There's good people and bad in Quinn's neighbourhood, but they love and care for each other, and when someone is in trouble, everyone else helps out. I only wish society was still this neighbourly today! Todays kids and teens really should read this, so they will know just what life was like back in grandma and prandpa's day. <br /> <br />I doubt my review does justice to the utter fabulousness of this book, or the complexities and nuances of its characters, or the utter realism of it's setting, but trust me...if you can find a copy of this book, buy it, you won't regret it! It will open a window to a time long ago, a poignant phase in American history that should never be forgotten, and thanks to this book, hopefully never will be.	2005-09-02
US	33072451	R1UT20AVWQ2D40	0689836805	359968081	Girl in the Attic	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Light romance for the juniors	I was looking forward to reading this book since I thought it was going to be a cool, spooky, gothic, cerebral sort of a mystery novel. I was wrong. It was actually a rather lukewarm, tame and predictable book. Worse, it actually read like a Harlequin romance novel for junior teens, with that flowery, meandering, jargony style of writing that romance novels are so well known for. To help illustrate what I mean, I'll quote you a few lines from the book: 'He felt as if the two of them were linked now more deeply than the mere touching of hands' and 'I want to hold her hand, touch her hair, take her in my arms'. Personally, I found this a little out of place in a book written from the perspective of a 13 year old boy. Sure, 13 year old boys are usually interested in girls, but not in such an overtly romantic way. This author seemed to have no idea how teenage boys think or see the world. The WORST example of this was when the book says 'Nathan looked at Charlie's lean, narrow face, untidy grey curls, generous mouth, smiling deep blue eyes.' To put this in context, Charlie is a MIDDLE AGED MAN. What 13 year old boy would ever look at a middle aged man and think about his 'generous mouth' or 'smiling deep blue eyes'? That was just WRONG, and led me to the conclusion that this book's author, Valerie Mendes, should perhaps be writing romance novels for older women rather than junior fiction. <br /> <br />There were also some big logic gaps in this book, but if I had to list them all, this review would run forever. You have to suspend disbelief reasonably often. People in this book don't necessarily react or behave as ordinary people like you or I might, given the situations they're in. There's a lot of melodrama, too, but rest assured, it's all easily solved by the conclusion of the book for the predictable happy ending. <br /> <br />Teenage boys will NOT like this book...it's just too schmaltzy and girly. Teen girls might like it, if they're very romantically inclined. Personally I didn't like it much...I've read better. But then again, I've read worse. It's very middle-of-the road. However, it might appeal to kids whose parents are getting divorced, or who are facing the prospect of having to move house and leave their friends behind. <br /> <br />	2005-09-02
US	33072451	RA5MBVZS869BV	0553581279	51302526	The Silver Metal Lover	Books	5	11	12	N	N	A true work of art!	This was more like a work of art than just a mere book...although not as perfectly, flawlessly rendered as a Da Vinci, it was at least as interesting and thought provoking as a Picasso. At times its lines were a little blurred and not entirely pretty, but it was so powerful and compelling and confronting, I just couldn't look away. I was drawn into it, and when I reached the end of the book, I had to admit that it was a masterpiece, and one ahead of its time for that matter.    I don't know what I can say about this book that hasn't already been said by the other reviewers, but I'll try. It's amazing, it's brilliant, it's ultra-realistic (you'll swear the world that Jane and Silver inhabit really exists), it's a heart-wrenching love story, it's an insightful commentary on life and personal relationships, and at the end of it, unless you have a heart of stone, you'll have used up a box of tissues crying and feel like a changed person. There's not many books that make me FEEL the way this one did...it even affected my sleep the night after I read it. I just couldn't get it out of my head. Some books simply entertain. But this one got under my skin and stayed there.    To the author's credit, this book hasn't dated in the quarter of a century since it was written, but still feels fresh and contemporary, as if it were written quite recently. It's a timeless story, and in this case, that's not just a cliche. At the time this book was written, modern gadgets like computers and ATMs were just coming on the scene and a lot of people were worried that machines would take over the jobs and even the lives of people. This book reflects what was a real fear at that time, and perhaps still is today, what with the current trend towards large-scale industrial automation and voice-recognition phone systems et al. It's an ongoing dilemma...can machines really replace people? And as this book asks, can they replace people even in our hearts? I've seen people who are so in love with their computers and the internet that they no longer seem to live in the real world or communicate with real people, so maybe the character of Jane in this book, who falls in love with a robot, isn't such an anomaly after all.    This is the first Tanith Lee book I've read, but I nonetheless have a feeling that this is the beginning of a great love affair between myself and her books...	2005-08-20
US	33072451	RTVBF7DK35PIZ	0451127986	702573808	Forefathers	Books	5	11	11	N	N	A sweeping saga of the highest magnitude	Don't let the cover art of this book fool you into thinking it's just a fluffy, inconsequential, melodramatic, romantic novel. This is actually one of the finest, best written, most substantial books I've ever read. This book spans centuries of one family's existence and evolution, from their arrival in Australia during the days of squatters and convicts through to almost the present day, to the days of the Vietnam war. <br /> <br />I read this novel as a teen (although it is not a teen book!) and until this day, I still love it. It's not just a great story, it also really opened my eyes to a whole lot of facts about Australian history I didn't know about until then, facts that are often not even taught in schools, probably because they're so shameful. For instance, I learned that in the past, the north of Australia was a lot like the deep south of America...they kidnapped black slaves from the Pacific Islands and forced them to labour against their will on sugar plantations. These slaves were treated horrendously, and often didn't survive their captivity. And native Australian Aborigines were forced to live in 'reservations', where they had no rights and no freedoms. In fact, Australian Aborigines didn't even legally 'exist' until a few decades ago...before that they could not vote and were not even counted as people in the census. The only right they really had was to join the army and die for their country...but when they came back from the war as heroes, they were still treated just as poorly. <br /> <br />Don't get me wrong, this book isn't just about the struggles that peoples of colour faced in Australia's past. It's also about the struggles EVERYONE who settled in this harsh yet beautiful land went through, whether they were black or white or any colour in between...the convicts from the UK, the beaten rebels from Canada, the gold prospectors, the wealthy squatters, the poor and downtrodden looking for a new and better life, and so on. And yet, in spite of its powerful, confronting storylines, this isn't a bleak book, but rather a wonderful celebration of the triumph of the human spirit. At all times it's poignant, beautiful, exciting and moving, and is penned with such astounding scope and detail that it proves this writer to be one of the literary greats. <br /> <br />I cannot recommend this book highly enough. Even if you have no interest whatsoever in Australian history, you'll still enjoy this, because it's not just about the history of the country, it's also about the people who made it what it is today...and those people, good or bad, are absolutely astounding.	2005-08-19
US	33072451	REIY9UJU7ZMBW	0440213460	228026047	The Silver Kiss	Books	3	8	12	N	N	Uneven, flawed yet apparently very inspirational	This may not be a great book, but it does have occasional moments of brilliance. Sometimes I hated it, especially when the characters talked and interracted...their dialogue was sadly lacking. Do teens really sound that stupid and incoherent? I'd like to think not! It was dated, too...it was copyrighted in 1990, and many of the fashions and customs the characters in the book followed did reek of the eighties. Some of the plot twists were inane and illogical, too. But then, in this book's favour, sometimes the plot really surprised or intrigued me, and the ending was truly heart-rending.    It became fairly obvious, fairly quickly, that many other writers have been 'inspired' by this book. For instance, this book was very similar in places to another book, 'Look For Me By Moonlight' by Mary Downing Hahn, which was written many years after this one. If you like either one of these two books, you'll probably like the other, since they're much the same...although Hahn's book was probably better written than this one, if a little too plagiaristic.     Strangely, too, I was also left wondering if perhaps Joss Whedon was 'inspired' by this when he conceived 'Buffy'. I'll tell you why...in this book there is a character who is a white-haired, punk-looking vampire who wears a black leather jacket he stole during a fight with a human who attacked him. He adored his mother, who was killed centuries ago by a vamp. He spent some time lost in madness due to the remorse of realising he was a vampire who had caused suffering to humans. He later turned on his own kind and became a vampire hunter. He eventually teams up in this fight with a spunky teenage girl whose mother is in hospital with a nasty cancerous illness. These plotlines, of course, are all reminiscent of those featured in 'Buffy', to the point where one wonders if they were actually ripped off! But of course, this book was written long before Buffy, so if that were the case, then the plagiariser could only be 'Buffy'...    This isn't bad, but it isn't great either. It's a bit slow, and a bit sad too. However, if you're a huge fan of vampire novels and you don't mind a bit of eighties kitsch, you'll probably quite enjoy it, especially if you're an angst-ridden teen who feels unloved or misunderstood, or someone who has lost a loved one to illness.	2005-08-13
US	33072451	R1S1AAUMAYRC5G	0440228840	647228297	Demon in My View (Den of Shadows)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	So-so vampire story for the juniors, by a junior	Even if the blurb about the writer at the back of this book hadn't told me that the author was fifteen when she wrote this, I would have guessed anyway. The writing, whilst not bad for a fifteen year old, is still far more juvenile, unstructured and ill thought out than one might expect from a published novelist. I resented paying full price for this book...if the author's only half the age of your average writer (and her writing definitely reflects this) then surely I should only have to pay half the average price for the book! <br /> <br />Younger teens will probably like this incredibly short book (so short that I finished it in just a few hours). It wasn't too bad. But it wasn't brilliant either. Still, most vampire books I've read lately have been poorly written pap, so by comparison to the rest of its genre, I suppose this actually fares quite well. <br /> <br />I would be interested in reading this author's later works, just to see if she's matured since writing this. But I won't be paying full price for them, not based on what I've already read in this book. It just wouldn't be worth it. <br />	2005-08-04
US	33072451	R2Y78WBAYLWH8I	0064407055	505341703	Ella Enchanted (Trophy Newbery)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	It will put a spell on you!	Anyone who's familiar with my book reviews on Amazon will know how utterly critical I can be. I'm a nit-picker. I can't help but write long reviews that point out all the books' faults in great detail. But I really can't fault this. It's brilliant. Gail Carson Levine is a master storyteller, and no one does fairytales like her..although many have tried to emulate her, none really succeed. <br /> <br />This is the best retelling of the Cinderella tale that I've ever read, and I've read a LOT of them! In fact, this is actually much better than the original. The characters in it really come alive; they're three dimensional and believable, and best of all, the prince really is charming, not just handsome. I fell in love with every character, good or bad. But I especially loved Ella. In spite of her curse, which might have left most people feeling bereft and used and angry and afraid to leave the house, she still loved and lived her life, and cared deeply for those around her. She was truly inspiring, a brave heroine and ideal role model. <br /> <br />Even though this is a kids/teens book, I assure you, adults will still love it, and absolutely should read it. Remember, you're never too old for a good story, and this is REALLY good. If you're trying to find the magic in your life, if you're still looking for your own happy ending (or even if you've already found it) then this will definitely appeal to you. <br /> <br />This book actually bears very little resemblance to the movie 'Ella Enchanted' so even if you've seen the movie, you should still read the book. And if you haven't seen the movie yet, you should, because like this book, it's brilliant.	2005-08-02
US	33072451	R3GH14H1MV30AG	1843605694	49170624	A Taste for Passion (Book 1):  Ellora's Cave Presents	Books	1	87	102	N	N	Clicheed, tedious, repetitious and sickening	My stomach is upset, and I'm not sure if it's because I have caught a tummy bug or simply because this horrible book literally gave me the sh*ts! This book reeked like week old fish left out in the sun, and left a similar taste in my mouth. And yet, somehow it has gotten rave reviews from many other readers. Might I conclude that this is because its author has lots of friends who have all chipped in to write good reviews for it and increase its sales? Or is it because good taste is a thing of the past? I wonder...    On the plus side, this book is VERY short, shorter in fact than most junior fiction, so at least the pain it caused me was over in a few short hours. It's only 171 pages long, and the words are printed BIG with double spaces between every paragraph. (A cheat's way of passing off a short story as a real novel.)    Okay, that was the one GOOD thing about it. Now to the bad...    First of all, it's just one big cliche. The author looks like she got hold of one of those 'How to write a romance book' books and just copied it verbatim. All the traditional, hackneyed romance novel phrases turned up: the sensitive bud, the pebbled flesh, the nubbin, the liquid heat, the damp curls, etc. etc. There is nothing new or original here, nothing at all. Worse though, the author repeats the same annoying phrases over and over, ad nauseum. Her personal favourite word seemed to be 'trail', as in 'trailed his lips', 'trailed his kisses', 'blazed a hot trail' and so on. Barely a page goes by without the hero and heroine trailing all over each other. In fact, sometimes they do it several times a page. Could the author find no other words to use than 'trail'? By the end of  the book, there were more trails on their bodies than on a hiking map of USA parks! Constant repetition, with the same words and phrases being used over and over, seems to be the only way this author knows how to write. The sex scenes are all same-same, repetitive and dull, with hardly any variation in thewording or actions, ever. No one wants boring sex like that in real life, so why would we want to pay money for a book to read about it?    The characters in this book are shallow and stupid. Their dialogue is stilted, and even though the hero is supposed to be romantic, he just comes off as a dumb sleeze. I mean, for instance, even after the heroine has literally died and then had to go through the long and painful phase of being turned into a vamp (which was done to her without her consent or knowledge) the hero doesn't sit worriedly by her side. Rather, he just leaves her alone and walks off. And when he finally returns, does he ask her how she feels, show concern, explain why he had to break his promise not to vamp her without her consent, or say sorry for permanently changing her life? No, he just grins like an idiot, jumps into bed and straight away tries to boink her. And she's happy to let him. She thinks he's romantic. (Seriously, he was about as romantic as a constipated goat!)    Sadly, too, the author seems to have a tile obsession. Every time the heroine walks into a room, she always notices the tiles, but never for any legitimate reason. Why is this author so obsessed with tiles? Is she a tiler? A home renovator? Or what? Sorry, but as far as erotica goes, I just don't find tiles sexy! And I don't know anyone else who would, either.    Speaking of things that I definitely don't find erotic, I must tell you about the thing that disturbed me the MOST about this book, right from page one, and that is the way the heroine thinks about her grandfather in a sexual way. He has recently died, so I understand why he is on her mind. But I was disturbed that she constantly thinks about things like her grandfather's good looks, his sex-life (that's a running theme throughout the book, her thinking about that), how he would have gotten his 'jollies' when he was still alive (she decides that it was from the vibrations of riding the Corvette he left her in his will,a 'jolly' that they had in common!), and how he always urged her to go out and get more action in her sex life. Worse, she even has posthumous conversations with him in her head, and in these he's usually urging her to go out and get some, or so to speak. She even awakes from an erotic dream and starts recalling her grandfather's funeral. Am I alone in finding this disturbing? Personally, I would NEVER think about my grandfather and sex as part of the same thought, never! It's just wrong, and the fact that the heroine's grandfather was recently deceased almost made it worse. Ugh! It was repulsively gross and not in the least bit erotic!    There are so many problems with this book that I could fill up more pages than it has in it just talking about them. But the book's faults are not all exclusively the author's fault. The publisher should also cop the blame for printing this complete with numerous spelling and grammatical errors. What, was their proof-reader on holiday the week they published this? Do they even have one?    For any fans of vampires or erotica, my advice is to avoid this book like a vampire would avoid sunlight, by running away from it FAST. The vampires in it are pathetic, hollow shadows of what they might have been, and this is NOT true erotica...it is merely a poorly written romance from an author who needs to get herself to some writing lessons, buy a thesaurus, and quite possibly see a shrink about why she thinks grandpas are so sexy!	2005-07-30
US	33072451	R2IU1T7AOF20CD	0441009077	459127178	Never After	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Strangely compelling homage to fairytale classics	I very nearly didn't read this book. Six months ago I opened it up, read the first page, decided it was duller than dishwater and put it back on the shelf. But recently I decided to give it a second go (I had a lot of time on my hands) and I'm so glad that I did. By twenty pages in it had gotten much better. I know they say don't judge a book by its cover, but in this case, don't judge it by its first few pages, either. If its author is reading this review, my advice to her is basic but essential: you must grab the reader's attention right from page one, or you could lose them. Sadly, page one in this book is mostly just dry descriptions of a forest et al. It didn't grab my attention at all. And these lengthy descriptions weren't poignant or even essential to the story. (A mere sentence of description outlining the essential facts would have been better.) I struggled to try to remember all the small details, thinking that they might be essential to the plot. They weren't. They were just filler. Unfortunately, there were many descriptions like this throughout the book that really should have been left out or shortened. Seriously, we don't need to know the contents of every room of the castle or to have every leaf on every vine in the garden described to us! These things are irrelevant, and actually get in the way of the plot, slowing it down.    However, in spite of that, this was a suprisingly decent book. It had many interesting twists and turns in its storyline, and even though it borrowed a number of plot points from numerous classic fairytales, it often did so in an unpredictable and original manner. The author obviously did a LOT of work thinking out her storyline and it shows. There's enough plot twists in this for ten storylines, and they're all good ones.    I must say, though, that my main reason for enjoying this was the character of Vevila. She was such a rebel and an adventurer. I loved her! She was sassy, sarcastic, clever and resourceful. Best of all,though, she wasn't afraid to be rude to people who irked her, and to speak her mind--and haven't we all wanted to do that from time to time, when idiots annoy us! She met her match in Rumpelstiltskin, though, whose character was thoroughly charming. They were my favourites in the book. I also liked the wizard Rueberry, although I think less emphasis should have been put on his compulsive overeating. I mean, I got it, he was fat 'cause he ate a lot, but did we constantly have to hear every detail of everything he ate? It wasn't funny. It was just repetitive.    I really liked the ending of this book. It was a fairytale ending, sure, with the obligatory 'happily ever after', but the fun lay in finding out just what it was that made the ending 'happy' for each of these people. It made me think of the lyrics of a Rolling Stones song, the one that goes, 'you can't always get what you want, but if you try sometimes, then you might find, you get what you need'. I hope I've quoted those lyrics exactly right, but even if I haven't, you get the general idea. I especially liked Prince Althelston's happy ending. He'd foolishly fallen in love with a romantic ideal, a fantasy that was something quite different from reality, and he was about to get a lesson in reality, a lesson he well deserved. He had fled the frying pan only to marry the fire. It was delicious irony. Read it, and you'll know what I mean.    I also liked when the wizard Mazigian was cursed only to be able to speak in quotes from Shakespeare. That truly would be a curse! Ugh!    This book was written in an unusual style, and not one I would have chosen myself. Nonetheless, I still think it worked pretty well. Most shockingly, though, it broke the mould by not having a single chapter in it! Rather, it was written in segments. Like the storyline, I found that very fresh, original and appealing.    I thought this book was well worth the effort I took in reading it. It's not the best book I've read this year, but it has definitely made my top twenty. It's witty, intelligent, and its characters are very well-rounded and three dimensional, with distinctive personalities. If you read between the lines, you'll understand their motivations. Even the wicked 'witch' is really just an overprotective, well-meaning but sadly delusional fairy godmother who is merely trying to protect her beloved godchild, the prince, from a world she perceives to be too cruel and wicked for one such as he. (And to the Amazon reviewer who said they were disappointed that the witch did not get punished for her wrongdoings, think this through: what could be a worse punishment than to find that the one you love the most, the one you've built your world around, does not love you, but actually fears and despises you!? I think she was definitely punished!) I would readily recommend this book to others, although I think it might be unsuitable for the much younger teens, not because of any adult themes, but simply because it is written in an advanced, mature, adult style, with lots of big words. Clever, highly literate kids will like it though.	2005-07-29
US	33072451	RBGVMJ0T8UO6D	0451199707	472703950	The Stone Maiden	Books	1	14	24	N	N	This book was my Waterloo	Never before in my life have I begun to read a book and failed to finish it...until now. I tried, I really tried to get into this. I gave it my best. I stuck with it for several hundred painful pages. But finally I had to admit defeat as I realised that I simply could not go on. Frankly, given a choice of a trip to the dentist for a triple tooth-pulling without anaesthetic or having to read this book, sadly, I'd have to pick the dentist. <br /> <br />Unintentionally, Susan King's writing is actually more terrifying than Stephen King's. In fact, I read out several paragraphs of it to a friend of mine and he began screaming, he was so horrified by how poorly it was written. I find it scary that something this bad even made it to print. And I find it scarier still that it got so many good reviews on Amazon. Did I read the same book as the rest of these people? The only other reviewer I wholly agreed with was Renee Cartwright, who said she was in pain from reading it. I totally concur with that judgement, Renee.  <br /> <br />This is supposed to be an historical novel, set in the Scottish Highlands of 1170. But seriously, it was about as authentically Scotttish and historical as non-vintage chanpagne. The dialogue is totally Americanised (the occasional \\"Ach!\\" does NOT make it Scottish) and the supposedly wise and proud clan elders sounded more like a group of foolish old fogies from a Florida retirement village--and uninteresting, two-dimensional ones at that. <br /> <br />The excessive description of background detail in this is excrutiatingly dull and usually thrown in at the wrong times, impeding the flow of the storyline. For instance, in the midst of Alainna running away in a sulk, and Sebastien racing after her, for some reason the author feels the need to stall the action to give us a long, boring, irrelevant, almost full page description of the courtyard they are running through, right down to the last detail. PUR-LEASE! The right time to give this description(if at all) would have been when Sebastien first arrived and was looking around with fresh eyes, not when he's supposedly moving quickly in the near-dark of twilight, when one could hardly see anything anyway. This author apparently hasn't a clue about timing, or writing in general for that matter. She also feels the need to insert as many adjectives into sentences as she possibly can, rendering all her sentences painfully long and boring, and yet still not really saying anything poignant...my advice to this author is 'less is more', as any decent writing coach will tell you. <br /> <br />The dialogue in this is appalling and infantile--no one ever says anything really logical or intelligent or funny or clever, least of all Alainna or Sebastien. It shocked me to think that this couple would be allowed to breed and pass on their stupidity to their offspring. <br /> <br />This book could have been so exciting. The ideas behind it are good, and Alainna being a stonemason was an interesting concept. But this writer made Alainna's stonework boring, just as she did Sebastien's swordplay. I LOVE medieval weapons, and I like ancient architecture and stonework, but this writer sucked the life out these subjects. Also, I felt as if the author only made Alainna into a stonemason in a lame 'girls can do anything' pseudo-feminist token effort. In the end, though, Alainna was just a typical wimpy heroine whom anyone with a hint of feminism in them will dismiss. For instance, at one point Alainna is holding a bow and arrow (which we are told she knows how to use for hunting) when she sees a wild boar. Even though she could have shot the pig then and there, instead she turns and runs screaming like a prissy city girl, only to be saved by--you guessed it--the hero, who of course saves her in the nick of time, as the hero always predictably does. Everyone in the clan then spends the next week saying how wonderful the hero was for killing the boar, and that he is the bravest man of them all and a true hero, as if no one had ever speared a pig before! I thought it was a tad pathetic...almost as pathetic as the hero's attempt at storytelling. He told a poor, uninteresting tale that went for about a minute or two, tops, and suddenly everyone in the clan declared him a master storyteller with the soul of a bard. PUR-LEASE! Scheherazade must be lying awake all the long Arabian nights at the mere thought that that man could be considered a storyteller at all, let alone a good one. I've heard three year olds word their stories better than he did. He took what might have been a lovely tale and ruined it. <br /> <br />This book is full of lots of pretty words, but the writing style that throws them together higgledy-piggledy is just plain ugly. If a thirteen year old wrote this at school, I'd give it a B+ to encourage them for their efforts, but I'd also tell them to keep working on improving their craft. But for an adult, this only rates an F. <br /> <br />Still, it might encourage aspiring writers everywhere to know that you can write a steaming heap of crap like this and still get it published! Apparently, ANYONE can make a living out of writing books, even the barely literate.	2005-07-11
US	33072451	R12F7XE1YPDYXZ	0804119562	267895434	Moonlit	Books	2	10	16	N	N	Even in the moonlight you can see this book's flaws	I remember a couple of years ago, some woman wrote a 'self help' book which said that if you truly wanted to keep a man, then you should submit to his every whim, obey his every command and always tell him he's right, even when he's incredibly wrong. Sane women everywhere condemned that book, and with good reason. But this book, Moonlit, seems to be perpetuating that rationale. The heroine, Nell, is an utter doormat, and unfortunately she lets the hero, Trevor St Wulfstan, wipe his feet on her as often as he likes--no matter what, he never wears out his welcome on her doorstep.    This book is so badly written that if I used it as toilet paper, my bottom would be offended! As a writer, I was heartbroken to see the art of writing brought so low. And even though I'm not Irish, I was aghast at seeing Ireland being stereotyped as badly as it was here--I swear, if I'd had to read one more of these stereotypes, I was going to do something ungodly with a shamrock and a leprechaun that would have involved some discomfort to the leprechaun, and left him looking like a celtic knot. (I mean no offence to leprechauns, I was just that mad!)    This book was peppered with constant contradictions. For instance, at one stage it is alleged that the hero does not usually show his emotions--and yet, up until that point, all he has done is be blatantly angry, jealous, resentful and impatient. Hello, those are EMOTIONS! Actually, the hero spends the whole book being arrogant and ill-tempered, enough to make him exceptionally unattractive. He never asks, he only orders, and never in a nice way. And that doesn't change--he doesn't evolve, but stays that way till the end. He manhandles Nell with alarming frequency, often grabbing her and pushing her around. At no point did I like him. He behaved like a bratty four year old. Indeed, at one point he says, \\"Don't make me chase after you again, Nell. It will only make me cranky. I will find you, be sure of that, and you don't want me cranky when I do.\\" Not only does he sound like a crazed stalker, but what grown man refers to himself as being 'cranky'? Cranky is a word you use to describe a small child who's missed his nap, not an adult male in a romance novel! Worst of all though, this guy did NOT know the meaning of foreplay. The sex scenes were godawful and dull, with not a hint of realism. Only once during the whole book did Trevor actually do something just for Nell in the bedroom, and it took him weeks to get around to that one VERY brief act. Trevor was selfish and uncaring, and negligent of Nell's needs. And yet, somehow, she loved him, and never really argued with him or resented him. I ended up with no respect for either character.    Sadly, the author's choice of wording in this book really annoyed me. For instance, the characters never just turned around, they always 'spun on their heel'. And they did that VERY often. The whole lot of them must have been extremely dizzy by the end of the book, what with all that spinning. Their heels must have been worn down, too. And the hero could never just open a door, he always had to kick it open. No wonder he was short of money--the cost of replacing all the doors he'd kicked the crap out of must have sent him broke. Someone really should have taken him aside and said, \\"Trevor, this is called a doorknob--here's how you use it.\\"    The only really nice thing in this book was the occasional use of Gaelic language--the writer probably spent a few hours researching that. But that alone wasn't enough to redeem this book in my eyes. By the end of it, I was just praying for it to end quickly. But even the end of the book was poorly written, illogical, and very predictable--except for the bit in the graveyard. I won't spoil it for you if you actually want to read it for yourself, but what Trevor leaves on a particular grave was not what I expected, and actually made me feel a bit uncomfortable. That act marked Trevor as an eternal boor who respected nobody, not even the departed. It was supposed to be a happy ending, where the heroine finally gets something that she has always wanted from Trevor, but I hated it.    I had such high hopes for this book. The plot sounded good. I liked the idea of a scarred, vulnerable hero. I thought this would be a bit of a 'Beauty and the Beast' tale. But no, my hopes were tragically dashed. In places, this was a little like a pale imitation of Laura Kinsale's book 'Flowers from the Storm'. However, that is the best I can say about it.    Emma Jensen, I WON'T be reading any more of your books, not even if they're giving them away for free! I have better, more pleasant things to do with my time, like cleaning the toilet and putting out the trash.	2005-07-04
US	33072451	R1I5VO1B6QJE9U	0957740395	860325529	The Knight and the Princess	Books	3	1	2	N	N	A waste of a great concept	Okay, if you're the mom of a little girl who is aged 4 to 8 and who hankers for princess stories, then maybe this is a good buy--although you may have to read it to them, since it's rather wordy. But in my opinion--and how can I put this nicely?--this book is a bit crap. No, actually, it's a LOT crap! It's poorly written pap. Joy Scherger both writes and illustrates this, and frankly, I think she should have stuck to just illustrating. Writing really isn't her forte. This book is like what would happen if you gave Tolkien a labotomy and then told him to write a Harlequin romance for the under 8s. Almost every sentence left me asking \\"why?\\" or \\"how?\\" or \\"what the...?\\" or \\"did they leave out a paragraph or something? Why did that happen?\\" Continuity and logic seemed alien concepts to this writer. <br /> <br />The title characters were so insipid as to be dull. In fact, the only really good characters in this book were the dwarf and the dragon...and frankly, what happens to them is not good. This may be a fairy tale but there's no happy ending for those two, even though they're both really nice and generous. To my mind, that's not a good moral for a story: that kind and generous folk meet bad ends. <br /> <br />The ending of the book was rushed and rough, and also left me wondering how on earth the story had logically managed to get to that point. It made me question the motivation of the whole plotline, and wonder why the knight (who is actually a prince) and princess were hidden away in the first place. Also, it worried me more than a little that even though the knight and the princess looked in the illustrations to be about twelve years old, they ended up getting married. Furthermore, they just automatically got married, without even really talking to each other first or asking one another if they wanted to get married. It was like the author just thought that the story needed a happy ending and a wedding automatically qualified as that, so she tacked it on withouta second thought. <br /> <br />Ugh! The three stars I gave this book were for its pictures (although not all of them) and for the dwarf and the dragon. Otherwise, it would have rated lower. <br /> <br />If you're after a REALLY good princess story that both kids and adults will adore then try these: 'The Paper Princess' by Elisa Klevin, 'The Paper Bag Princess' by Robert Munsch, or 'I Am Really a Princess' by Carol Diggory Shields. Or for the older kids, try Gail Carson Levine's 'Princess Tales'.	2005-06-11
US	33072451	R13QL9T7BN4EY4	006009334X	887015576	Vampire Kisses	Books	4	11	16	N	N	As sweet and addictive as sugar	I like vampires, but I often find that books about vampires are poorly written. However, this book is an exception. As far as vampire books go, this is one of the better ones. The writer, Ellen Schreiber, used to be a comedienne, and it shows. There's some genuinely funny writing in here. The heroine, Raven, is a seriously interesting, fun character. She's a Goth kid, and she takes the whole Goth thing so seriously, obsessing about her clothes and makeup and accessories as if they're the most important things in her life...which as I recall from my time as a young Goth gal is exactly what it is like! But she's got a unique personality to go with that stereotypical standard buy-'em-by-the-dozen Goth image, so she'll still hold your interest, even if you're not a fan of the Goth lifestyle. <br /> <br />I found the character of Alexander (the 'Goth Mate' love interest) rather less intriguing than Raven. I don't think his character was overly well developed. I found his butler ('Creepy Guy') far more interesting. But then, most of the secondary characters in this book were highly intriguing. Even Raven's geeky little brother ('Nerd Boy') was well written. The town in which Raven lives ('Dullsville') was also exceedingly well realised--anyone who has lived in a small town with intolerant small town attitudes will bond with the description of this place. And for the most part, the relationships between the characters were very sweet--they evolved beautifully, logically and compellingly. <br /> <br />Sometimes the plot and dialogue of this book went a little off the rails, but this was usually only because of small flaws and inconsistencies. All in all, I found it a largely satisfying read. More importantly, though, I simply couldn't put it down! I missed out on a whole lot of sleep because I just couldn't stop reading it. This isn't the greatest book I've ever read, but it's still pretty damn good. You'll probably enjoy it too, if you choose to give it a try.	2005-06-07
US	33072451	RQRCBT0DCH6BK	0743419219	999050996	Timeless Love	Books	2	18	25	N	N	This didst verily sucketh!	T.S. Eliot once famously said, \\"Some editors are failed writers, but so are most writers.\\" This saying is very ably demonstrated here.    I found this book painful to read, not only because it was dull and tedious, but also because it was implausible, illogical, grammatically flawed and just plain badly written. The writer didn't seem to know how to write properly, and I'm convinced that she didn't actually understand the meaning of many of the words she was using, judging by the way she used them. She just sort of threw them together, and made pretty sentences that weren't entirely right. Moreover, she didn't just fail in a grammatical sense, she also failed to create a compelling, interesting storyline, which in my view is a far, far bigger sin. I can overlook grammatical flaws in a plot, so long as there's some great ideas behind it (as in the case of 'Lady Knight' by Evangelynn Stratton, or 'The Rose and the Beast' by Francesca Lia Block, which are both amazing books.) But there was no forgiving this. I almost got the feeling that this writer was a history teacher trying to make a history lesson more 'interesting' by turning it into a novel...and failing. There was loads of historical fact here--most of it dry, a little of it highly interesting. But it stood out from the plot rather than blending in. A good writer would have blended history and fiction until they became indistinguishable, like melting together chocolate and cream to make a delectable, tasty truffle. But this was more like blending tripe and lentils...the blend was obviously a mismatch, and an unpalatable one at that.    I lost count of how many times I put this book down, thinking, 'I can't go on, this is more painful than getting a leg wax!' And yet, I did persevere, because I paid retail plus shipping costs for this book (which, when you factor in the exchange rate of my humble Aussie dollars to your American ones, is quite a bit of dosh!) and thus thought, gosh-darn it, I'm going to get my money's worth out of it! So I finished the damned thing. But frankly, in retrospect, I would rather have had the leg wax.    If you're a hopeless romantic like I am, my guess is that you are going to be disappointed with this book too. In spite of the book's title literally promising 'Timeless Love', the reader doesn't even glimpse the hero for the first time until TWO THIRDS of the way through the book. And even then, the romance between him and the heroine is as underdone as a rare steak. This writer seemed VERY afraid of writing anything remotely mushy. One wonders if she shouldn't be writing non-fiction history books, as she seems to know her stuff much better when it comes to that.     The characters are two dimensional and unlikeable (actually, the bad guy was almost more interesting than the good guys), the heroine 'Sam' is often as dumb as a box of hammers but with less charisma, the dialogue is almost worse than a kiss from a scorpion with haliotosis, and the plotline is so full of holes I could use it as a collander. The worst thing, though, the thing that I found most implausible about the plot (other than the way the future changed when Sam went back and forward through time which was so fraught with paradox I began to yell \\"That couldn't happen!!\\") was the fact that Sam could cure King Edward VI's terminal illness simply by making a few changes to his diet, and taking a dog and a bit of fur out of his room. Now, I should have found this plot twist compelling, since I myself suffer from food and environmental allergies, and know what a huge impact they can have on your life. But no way are allergies that easy to diagnose and fix, and no way can they be cured in the space of A FEW HOURS, especially without cleaning any extra animal hairs and dander out of the bed linen or environment! Call me pedantic, but that was just too unrealistic for me.    The front cover is the nicest thing about this book. But of course, even this is flawed. The girl on the front cover has beautiful, straight blonde hair, whereas the heroine in the book has frizzy, over-permed, damaged hair with ugly streaks through it.    I gave this book two stars because it's not completely without merit. The author does do things right from time to time, and you'll even find the occasional touch of brilliance here and there. But otherwise, I don't think this was worth the sacrifice of chopping down the trees needed to make the paper it was printed on. The nine to twelve year olds will probably find this okay, so long as they're history buffs. But for anyone older, they may find they've already outgrown it.    If you're interested in love stories set in this exact period of time that involve Lady Jane and King Edward VI then get hold of the dvd 'Lady Jane' starring Helena Bonham Carter and Cary Elwes. It's touching, it's poignant, it's sweet and it's a damned sight better written than this book.	2005-05-21
US	33072451	R2HEEJ3EZQFXBW	0451404904	241877312	Lord of the Storm (Dreamspun)	Books	4	6	11	N	N	Deeply flawed but surprisingly entertaining	When I saw the standard of the writing in this book, I assumed that it must be the author's first work, because it seemed that she lacked experience. (It was like something I wrote in high school.) Imagine my surprise when I read the final page (the one that waxes poetic about the author) and found out that not only is this book not her first, but it is almost her TWENTIETH! Even more surprisingly, I discovered that she has actually won AWARDS for her writing. Granted, these were only romance writing awards, not Pullitzers or Nobels, but I was still shocked. I mean, this book suffered from so many flaws: excessive repetition, huge logic gaps that often forced one to suspend belief entirely, continuity problems, a sense of claustrophobia in some of its settings (strangely, it made outer space seem VERY small indeed, especially when it devoted only one paragraph to the crossing from one side of the universe to the other!), stilted dialogue, lack of variety in adjective usage, and sentences that just ran on and on past when they should have stopped (way too many 'and's and 'then's for my liking!) Plus, on a personal note, I thought that some of the sex scenes were a bit ordinary, and that the heroine cried far too much. As a war-hardened space captain, she should have been able to go a single day without sobbing her eyes out! I think the author used the heroine's crying much too often as an excuse to get her into the hero's arms.<br /><br />I myself would never have written a book like this. And yet, I must admit, I found it very entertaining. Apparently, it turns out I'm a trash addict. Even though this was everything a book shouldn't be, I just couldn't put it down! However, I must also admit, after a very pleasing beginning it got less thrilling as it went on. The obligatory 'happy ending' was just a little bit too easy and predictable and implausible for me. I got the feeling that the writer had a deadline and rushed to finish the book, putting expediency ahead of accuracy, sacrificing a good plot in her haste to get her publisher's cheque.<br /><br />That said, in spite of its flaws, this book does still have a lot going for it. It carries a compelling message about the evils of slavery and racism, with the ironic twist that those being discriminated against are actually blonde and fair skinned. The emancipation of the slave Wolf is soul stirring, and you'll be rooting for the good guys to triumph there.<br /><br />As far as light romantic reads go, you'll probably enjoy this one. It is no sillier or worse plotted than most romances. And it will definitely make you feel for the characters. My advice is to give it a try...if you can find a copy, that is.<br /><br />By the way, if you're a fan of Dara Joy's 'Matrix of Destiny' series, you will definitely enjoy this, as it is eerily similar to Dara's book 'Mine To Take', to the point where one wonders if one was a rip-off of the other. For the record, 'Lord of the Storm' was published well before 'Mine To Take'., sacrificing a good plot in her haste to get her publisher's cheque.    That said, in spite of its flaws, this book does still have a lot going for it. It carries a compelling message about the evils of slavery and racism, with the ironic twist that those being discriminated against are actually blonde and fair skinned. The emancipation of the slave Wolf is soul stirring, and you'll be rooting for the good guys to triumph there.    As far as light romantic reads go, you'll probably enjoy this one. It is no sillier or worse plotted than most romances. And it will definitely make you feel for the characters. My advice is to give it a try...if you can find a copy, that is.    By the way, if you're a fan of Dara Joy's 'Matrix of Destiny' series, you will definitely enjoy this, as it is eerily similar to Dara's book 'Mine To Take', to the point where one wonders if one was a rip-off of the other. For the record, 'Lord of the Storm' was published well before 'Mine To Take'.	2005-05-14
US	33072451	R1JBYOPL4ZEN8Q	0646277898	299594247	The Liver Cleansing Diet: Love Your Liver and Live Longer	Books	1	119	196	N	N	Don't believe everything you read in books!	(Please note that this review pertains not only to this book, but to all of Sandra Cabot's books dealing with liver cleansing diet/syndrome X. I'm just too lazy to do more than one review!)<br /><br />My rating here is based on PERSONAL EXPERIENCE. I can only relate what actually happened to me on this diet, in the hope that you find my experiences enlightening.<br /><br />I have never before given a rating this low to a book, but I feel that this one deserves it, not because it's badly written, but because I found it dangerously written--using some actual medical fact to promote a heap of medical fiction.<br /><br />I have read several of Sandra Cabot's books, and I've followed her diet plan. I followed it for five months. I'll admit, I was sick when I began it, but let me tell you, I was MUCH sicker when I ended it! My doctor couldn't believe how much sicker I was, but it was all there on my medical records. My blood test results were shocking. They were so far outside normal parameters, they almost made me look like I had lupus, or some other horrible disease. My liver and bowels had never felt worse, and my immune system was going haywire. Naturally, I discontinued the diet, and began to feel much better.<br /><br />Yes, I did lose some weight on this diet, mostly because it was so restrictive. But I also lost health and quality of life, so the benefits were far outweighed.<br /><br />Look, I have to say, the type of foods you put into your body are vitally important. I know that well. I've done an 'elimination diet' (which any allergist or nutritionist can put you on), so now I know for a medically proven fact exactly which foods are good for me and which are bad. My own body does not lie. It does not want to sell me books. It proved to me which foods made it sick and which didn't. And I have to tell you, that elimination diet revealed that the foods which were GOOD for me were the exact ones that Sandra Cabot's liver cleansing diet told me NOT to eat. Similarly, many of the foods that the liver cleansing diet said were good for me were really bad!<br /><br />As far as I can see, this book is not so much based on medical science as much as it is on superstition and rehashing of medical myth, as is often espoused by new age health freaks who always tow the same tired old line. Where it is based on actual, recent medical science, it often uses it incorrectly to reach many wrong conclusions. The only really credible science it uses is a fact that is already obvious to all of us: that if you eat too much deep fried and processed food, you're going to get fat and sick and hurt your liver! Well, der! I didn't need a book to tell me that!<br /><br />Furthermore, I actually realised something shocking recently when I was doing research for a novel I am writing set in medieval times. The 'science' used in medieval medicine is actually very similar to that used in the liver cleansing diet! Medieval medicine deals with balancing the 'humours' of the body, and lists the four different body types and associated attributes that go with them. There are special diets as well, and special treatments associated with each of these types, which are supposed to help 'harmonise' the body and its organs. Of course, medieval medicine was well known for being next to useless: it relied mostly on unsubstantiated 'cures' such as herbs, toxic substances, superstitious beliefs and bloodletting--treatments which were usually more lethal than effective! (There was a very good reason that medieval times were called 'The Dark Ages', and why life expectancy back then was no more than thirty years!) While the liver cleansing diet does not advocate any approaches as drastic as these, and focuses more on diet, the similarities are still patently obvious. And I would certainly not want to trust my health to any diet plan based on a science that advocated treatments like that!<br /><br />If you want to give this book a try, then fine, go ahead. Some people claim that it has helped them, and maybe it has, although I personally believe that this may have happened by accident--for instance, it may have helped them if they had an undiagnosed food allergy such as lactose intolerance, and the diet made them stop or reduce their lactose intake. Such a move WOULD help one's liver and health. The diet may have also helped them lose weight, and if their problems were caused by a fatty liver or obesity, then it definitely would have helped--as would any weight loss diet! But based on my personal experience, I wouldn't recommend this book to anyone. I don't think it will 'cleanse' your liver at all, whatever that means. In fact, it almost made mine bleed, and blood is NOT a cleanser!<br /><br />If you want to help your liver, eat more vegies, drink less alcohol, cut out some junk food and in spite of what Sandra Cabot tells you, eat cheese! It's low in lactose (unlike milk) and high in protein and calcium, which you need. And don't just assume that soy is wonderful for you, like this book says it is. Remember, it's a bean, and one only has to recall that famous baked bean eating scene in 'Blazing Saddles' to know what an irritant effect beans can have on the bowels! Also, watch out for the excessive fresh juice intake recommended in this diet--juice can be high in sugars and low in fibre, which is exactly what you don't need, unless you're courting diabetes!nally believe that this may have happened by accident--for instance, it may have helped them if they had an undiagnosed food allergy such as lactose intolerance, and the diet made them stop or reduce their lactose intake. Such a move WOULD help one's liver and health. The diet may have also helped them lose weight, and if their problems were caused by a fatty liver or obesity, then it definitely would have helped--as would any weight loss diet! But based on my personal experience, I wouldn't recommend this book to anyone. I don't think it will 'cleanse' your liver at all, whatever that means. In fact, it almost made mine bleed, and blood is NOT a cleanser!    If you want to help your liver, eat more vegies, drink less alcohol, cut out some junk food and in spite of what Sandra Cabot tells you, eat cheese! It's low in lactose (unlike milk) and high in protein and calcium, which you need. And don't just assume that soy is wonderful for you, like this book says it is. Remember, it's a bean, and one only has to recall that famous baked bean eating scene in 'Blazing Saddles' to know what an irritant effect beans can have on the bowels! Also, watch out for the excessive fresh juice intake recommended in this diet--juice can be high in sugars and low in fibre, which is exactly what you don't need, unless you're courting diabetes!	2005-05-10
US	33072451	RV0HZI143M75X	B00071PSPE	758835686	The care and feeding of the irritable bowel: New discoveries regarding the cause and cure of the irritable bowel diseases	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The title's really icky but the information's good!	I want to start this review by saying that this book is not just for people suffering from irritable bowel syndrome. This will probably also help anyone with arthritis, headaches, weight gain, muscular and joint pain and swellings, concentration problems, poor skin, and a tendancy to get sick too often or suffer frequent sprains and strains. (These are things that I have seen with my own eyes that this diet helps!)    This book changed my life! I was sick for years with hideous stomach upsets, migraines and crippling arthritic pains. And that was in my early twenties--a time at which you're supposed to be at your peak of health! I tried all the so called healthy fad diets: the liver cleansing diet, the candida diet, and so on. None of them worked. In fact, on the liver cleansing diet, I actually got much sicker. I was ready to give up on all those stupid diets. I thought they were a waste of time.    Given those negative experiences, I was absolutely amazed to find that the diet in this book not only helped, but it FIXED MY PROBLEMS better than anything else. Before I read this book, I saw hundreds of doctors, surgeons, specialists, naturopaths, herbalists--you name it, I tried it. And none of them could really help. They gave me medicines and treatments and surgery, but none of it worked. But this book did. THIS book taught me that most of my illnesses were DIET related, even arthritis! It was an absolutely mind-blowing revelation. But afterwards, when I thought about it, it made sense. Put it this way: if you put the wrong kind of fuel into your car, it's not going to go right, is it? In fact, you might even end up permanently damaging it. Well, the human body works the same way. Put the wrong fuel into it, and you're going to stuff it up. Problem is, no one seems to know what the right fuel is. Even most allergists and dieticians get it wrong. And most of the other self help books get it REALLY wrong! But this book helped me find out what to do, what the right foods were, and why they were good.    Dr Gibbons doesn't have all the answers, and sometimes his research doesn't go far enough or is a little flawed. But he does point you in the right direction. If you can find this book, get it--it's worth its weight in gold! Follow the diet suggestions it makes. That should help up to 90% of readers. But if that doesn't completely work, try eliminating a few extra foods like soy, garlic, onions, butter, soft cheeses and sugar, as I have found that these can be major antagonists of the body.    The diet might be a tad restrictive, but living pain free and healthy is SO worth it!    I only wish that Dr Gibbons would write more books and further his research. But as the drug companies fund most of the research, and this is a drug free approach, I'm not surprised that he has not.	2005-05-10
US	33072451	R3BT82UTEW3AJQ	0689831285	738359886	Just Ella (The Palace Chronicles)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	The 'happy ending' is just the beginning	This book has me torn. On one hand, I truly admire the author's aim: to go beyond the 'happily ever after' mentality of fairytales, and try to expose the truth--that Prince Charming may actually be a lot less charming than he seems, and that 'happy endings' aren't always as happy as you thought they would be. But on the other hand, I found the book a little jarring and uncomfortable. Maybe that's because I like the typical fairytale ending; I like the illusion, and the magic, and the romance. But then, maybe it's also because this author didn't quite have the level of skill needed to pull off her ambitious vision successfully. <br /> <br />Unfortunately, I have to say, this book could have been a lot better written. Let me count a few of the ways... <br /> <br />Despite the apparent medieval English setting, the writing and dialogue couldn't be more Americanised if they tried. The hero's name is Jed, and he says \\"dang it\\" a little too often. He's supposed to be a tutor, but he sounds more like a cowboy. Sometimes it's a little hard to tell whether the heroine, Ella, is talking about the present or the past--the author makes a pig's breakfast out of the flashbacks, rendering them obscure and ill-defined. Almost every element in the story is a 'moral', which means the story gets a little preachy at times. The messages include: war is bad, refugees need to be looked after, it is unhealthy to give in to fashion and be too thin, beauty is only skin deep, personality is more important than looks, love is more than just infatuation, it is unfair that the poor are always treated badly by the rich, and on it goes. These are all good messages, but I kind of felt like I was being slapped in the face with them. I was also surprised that these positive messages were actually contradicted by Ella's frequent derogatory allusions to her 'fat, lazy, wicked stepsisters'. The author tries to tell us that physical beauty isn't everything, and that one shouldn't give in to pressure to diet, then she gives us the distinct impression that women should be judged harshly if they are fat, because fat is ugly, and one can only get fat by being lazy and self-centred! What a nice message for the kiddies--NOT! Furthermore, the author had a little bit of a problem with logic gaps in her writing. For instance, at one point the frail heroine snaps a shovel handle in half just by hitting it against her knee. Ever tried to do that? It's impossible. A shovel has to be strong, or else it would break the first time you tried to dig with it. Someone who could bench press 300+ pounds might be able to break it, given time. But a half-starved 15 year old girl? Not unless she's magical--and this book goes to great pains to point out that she definitely isn't! <br /> <br />Don't get me wrong--this book is well worth the read. Personally, I'm glad I read it, because it did have a lot of good stuff to say. If you're a fan of fairytales, in particular of deconstructed and reworked fairy tales, then you really should get hold of this. But don't expect to put it down at the end saying, \\"Wow, that changed my life!\\", because you won't. Reading this is a pleasant way to spend an afternoon, but that's about it.	2005-05-03
US	33072451	R2E7KKH5T8K8A0	0689869991	757563705	Sunlight and Shadow (Once Upon a Time (Simon Pulse))	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A multi-faceted gem	Okay, I'm going to declare my cultural ignorance right here and now by saying that I know NOTHING about the opera 'The Magic Flute', upon which this book is apparently based. But I DO know a thing or two about good book writing, though, enough to say that this is a compelling, well written book. <br /> <br />If you're the type of person who'd rather drink a bucket of goo than have anything to do with opera, then don't worry. This book is nothing like an opera. There's no fat lady singing, no foreign languages to try to interpret, and no rich women sitting in the dress circle wearing hideous fur coats. Nor will it cost you a month's wages to view it. Rather, this book is unpretentious and accessible to anyone and everyone, young or old. <br /> <br />The author takes a bold chance on this story, by writing each chapter from the viewpoint of a different character, even the bad guy. In lesser hands it might not have worked. But here it works very well indeed, once you get used to it. <br /> <br />This is Mina's story, even though she only writes some of the chapters. Her parents are literally night and day, and don't get along. Her father wishes her to marry someone of his choosing, someone she doesn't like. So in true storybook heroine fashion, she leaves home to follow the song of her heart, and find her own true love. <br /> <br />Of course, she finds him...but as always, the path to true love does not run smoothly, and the two lovers literally have to go to hell and back to prove their love for one another. <br /> <br />This book is like a bag of mixed lollies--sugary, tasty, full of variety and highly addictive! Enjoy!	2005-05-02
US	33072451	R3IRNCI2NXWAJ4	1582347999	704051695	The Frog Princess (Tales of the Frog Princess)	Books	5	23	23	N	N	A frogging fabulous read!	If you like fairy tales, and you have a sense of humour, then I've no doubt you will love this book just as much as I did.  <br /> <br />Once I started reading this, I just couldn't put it down. It's got the whole shebang: romance, humour, adventure, magic, witches both good and bad, fickle faeries, awesome dragons, and even a bat with agoraphobia. <br /> <br />This is an imaginative retake on the old Frog Prince story. By a strange twist of magic, when the Princess goes to kiss the frog--POOF!--she is also turned into a frog. From then on, the Frog Prince and Princess have to fight to survive in a less than frog-friendly world, and try to regain their former human selves. <br /> <br />The characters in this are adorable. Princess Emma is hardly your steroetypical princess. She's clumsy and awkward and headstrong, far more at home in the swamp than she was in her castle. Prince Eadric, the frog she kisses, is also far from being a typical prince. He has a healthy sense of witty sarcasm, and an even healthier appetite for food. He's also spent so long asking princesses to kiss him that he's become a little set in his ways, and never gives up asking Emma for a smooch. But he's got a good heart to match those amorous wiles, and courage to spare. <br /> <br />This is a fast paced book that is so good, you'll be sad when it's over. <br /> <br />I can't wait to read the sequels...	2005-05-02
US	33072451	R2VMI62UW9OYXU	067103541X	321991445	The Sunnydale High Yearbook Buffy The Vampire Slayer	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Nice pics, shame about the text	Okay, I'm outing myself right now: I'm a huge fan of Buffy! (Especially the musical episode, which I could happily watch every day for the rest of my life.) But this yearbook just didn't cut it for me. <br /> <br />Now, don't get me wrong, I didn't hate this. The concept was brilliant, the presentation was striking and the pictures were very nice. But the text just didn't thrill me. I thought it would be funnier. But as I waded through all the endless pages of stuff about how the various school sports teams and clubs went during the school year, looking for references to the characters featured in the Buffy series, or at least looking for punchlines, I was sadly disappointed. This book was basically just a set of boring stats and commentary about people I don't know or give a damn about. There were no cool 'in jokes' or anecdotes or anything I didn't already know about the show. This added nothing to my Buffy experience. A few of the comments in the margins of the pages were alright, but not laugh out loud funny. Oz's comments were really the only saving grace, but they were few and far between. <br /> <br />Buffy was a very well written show--hard-hitting and poignant and funny, offering wonderful social commentary. Therefore, I naturally expected any books about the show to be the same. But this just wasn't up to that standard. <br /> <br />Look, if you're a diehard Buffy fan, then you might want to pick this up--if you can still get hold of it, that is--and take a look at it just for curiosity's sake. But if not, don't be too disappointed that it's no longer in print. It's just better that way.	2005-04-13
US	33072451	R27URFXPK0XT7Q	0486407225	311624350	Costume Through the Ages: Over 1400 Illustrations (Dover Fashion and Costumes)	Books	5	27	28	N	N	A wonderful reference book that I couldn't live without	This is quite simply a fabulous book, and a very useful one too! I am an author who writes historical novels, and when I need to know what the characters I'm writing about would have been wearing in any given year from antiquity through to modern times (1930s), I turn to this book. Fortunately, it's not cluttered with text, but merely contains drawings, pure and simple and straighforward. It's the quickest, most accurate reference book I own, aside from my dictionary, of course. <br /> <br />My only qualm is that it doesn't contain anything about undergarments, such as bustles, knickers, petticoats, crinolines or girdles. But then, the pictures in this book are sourced from historical paintings, sculptures, mosaics, illuminated manuscripts and so forth, which probably never showed such things, as they might have been considered indecent or irrelevant. (I suppose not too many people throughout history wanted to be painted in their underwear!) <br /> <br />If you're a writer, an arts student, a costume designer or just someone who has an interest in the history of fashion, I would highly recommend this book to you.	2005-03-25
US	33072451	R11MZOZ7DOIAM6	0380761327	303727550	Flowers from the Storm	Books	4	9	16	N	N	The flowers needed more pruning and care from the writer!	I'm not going to say that this is a great book, but I'm not going to say it's a bad one either. What I am going to say is that its billing (on its own back cover) as 'one of the greatest love stories of all time' is definitely a massive exaggeration.    The storyline behind this book is excellent--very complex and appealing and creatively thought out. The characters are well developed and believable, not to mention loveable in their own ways--both of the main characters are strong and yet achingly vulnerable, especially Christian, whom I dare any woman not to want to cuddle and nurture and probably more. The research that went into this book is frighteningly good, probably better and more thorough than any I've ever undertaken in my own writing. (My only qualm with it was that I was under the impression that Quakers running asylums at that time were trying to minimalise the use of the types of mechanical restraints that were often and freely used on the character of Christian. But maybe I'm wrong--I wasn't there.) Moreover, it would have taken a surfeit of patience and dilligence for the writer to commit to completing such a lengthy, detailed book--I know from experience that the work involved in such a venture would have been mind-boggling, and I admire the writer for sticking with it.    And yet, all accolades aside, this book is still dramatically flawed. At 533 pages (of small print) long it is an absolute monster--the romance genre's equivalent to 'War and Peace'. And it's heavy going, too--slowly paced and cumbersomely written, which makes it seem even longer. In fact, if you're planning to buy this book as a 'holiday read' then be warned, it will take you your entire holiday to read it, leaving you with little time to do anything else! The sad fact is that the book shouldn't have had to be this long. With a little judicious editing, cutting out many annoying repetitions (for example, did we have to hear quite so many long-winded, oft-repeated descriptions about the aesthetic qualities of their eyelashes? What was the point of that? It wasn't sensual or poignant, it added nothing to the plot, and it went on and on...), trimming all the pointless fluff and filler, and just writing it in a better, friendlier, more economical style, it might not only have been cut down to an easier-to-digest four hundred pages, but also would have been a far better read, too--or at least in my humble opinion.    The book starts slowly, and takes a while to warm to. I must admit, at times I almost wanted to give up on it. There were many reasons why. Here is one of them, as an example: the author's knowledge of mathematics was impressive, but the fact that she spent CHAPTERS discussing mathematical equations left me thinking, 'Enough numbers already! Get to the interesting stuff!' And that's not to say that I don't like or understand maths, quite the contrary; I just didn't want that much of it! This is supposed to be a romance novel, not a text book.    Another big problem I had with the book is that at times it is very poorly worded. The author spends too much time on some details, repeating them over and over until they are almost grating, and yet annoyingly skims some others. She is also a little ambiguous. One can see what she is trying to say but her words don't quite say it. One example of this is when the book says that Maddy's Papa has not smiled exhilaratedly since the day her mother died..which of course makes it sound like the last time her Papa had a really good smile or a laugh was actually BECAUSE her mother died! Shouldn't the book have said, he had not smiled exhilaratedly since BEFORE her mother had died? Okay, yes, I'll confess, I'm a picky reviewer, but I'm of the opinion that every word matters, and that one should always say what one really means to say, and not be lazy about wording. I hold my own writing up to a high standard and expect other authors, especially such lauded ones, to do the same.    I'd urge you to read this book, by all means. Its triumphs definitely outweigh its flaws, and the final two pages are deliciously, subtly clever--the destination makes the long trip worthwhile. But lets call a spade a spade here, people, and not be under the delusion that it's the greatest love story of all time. Because if that were so, then it doesn't speak well for all the other love stories that are out there, does it, because it would mean that they were worse than this. And I KNOW that there are better books than this!	2005-03-06
US	33072451	R56O20LMYZU89	0399510028	190655738	Romance Writer's Phrase Book: The Essential Source Book for Every Romantic Novelist (Perigee Book)	Books	2	47	57	N	N	Like a train wreck--sickening, but you can't look away	Oh, but this book is awful! Its authors have taken all the very worst, most revolting, most overused phrases found in romance books (those same hackneyed phrases that make romance book editors swear they'll scream if they have to read them one more time) and organised them into one tome, all in neat little chapters. This book is like a tombstone on the grave of creative writing, and my advice to any aspiring romance writers is to follow your heart and your head in your writing, not the sickeningly bad examples shown in this book. Frankly, while this book's terminology is supposed to be rather sexy and sensual in content, it is actually only about as much of a turn on as getting a pap smear. In fact, I've read tractor magazines that were hotter and spicier than this.    And yet, in spite of all that, this book is nonetheless still quite a fun read, so long as you don't take it too seriously. Honestly, most of the phrases listed in it are downright hilarious! Read them out with your friends while you're drinking margheritas. Test how long you can keep a straight face before you have to laugh at how ridiculous they are.    My advice to you is that if you want a good laugh, then go ahead and purchase this book. However, if you're looking to buy it because you need advice on how to write a good, original romance book and be taken seriously as an author, then look elsewhere. Elizabeth Benedict's book, 'The Joy of Writing Sex' is an excellent alternative. Or try a simple, old fashioned thesaurus. I'm sure Amazon sells them.	2005-02-02
US	33072451	R1YTEHPEPGHQ4T	0451408276	570564924	Silken Threads	Books	5	38	40	N	N	Don't let this one pass you by	I very nearly didn't buy this book, since I'd never heard of it or its author before. I was shopping on the net, purchasing a whole bunch of other books, when I saw it and thought, 'oh well, that looks mildly interesting,' and decided to toss it into my shopping cart along with the rest. <br /> <br />AND I AM SO GLAD THAT I DID! This book is just lovely. Well written, well plotted, entertaining, heart warming and realistic...what more could I have wanted? Nothing, really, because this had it all. <br /> <br />Technically, this book is a romance, and a really sweet, endearing one at that. Fans of historical romance books will undoubtedly lap it up like a cat would a tasty bowl of cream. But this book should also appeal to a crossover audience of readers who wouldn't normally touch anything in the romance genre too, because it's also a really good, entertaining historical novel with a decent plotline. The love scenes are tastefully done, there's no uncomfortable melodrama, and the characters are genuinely intelligent and likeable--and I don't just mean the main characters, Graeham and Joanna, who are both pretty cool, but also the minor characters, such as the street urchin Adam, who hides an intriguing secret; Thomas, the former harper now turned leper, who was my favourite character; Joanna's charming brother, Hugh, who really should have his own book written about him (I must check and see if there is a book about him, actually); and even Joanna's pet cats, who have real personalities of their own. Oh, and even though this is a historical book, there's even a surprise appearance by someone very famous from our contemporary society...you won't know about it until you've finished the entire book and read the author's note, but when you do that, it will have you wanting to read the book all over again just to find this person (just in case you didn't already want to read it again anyway, which you probably will!) <br /> <br />One of the best things about this book, though, is the front cover. It's a very classy cover for a romance book--one that won't embarrass you if you want to read it on the bus (no stereotypical steroid-induced man-boobs on this one, thankfully!). Whilst at first it just looks like a pleasant, ordinary cover, after you've finished reading the book, and you've read the author's note, the cover's significance will become very clear, and take on new meaning. It's not often that you'll find a book's cover becoming a clever plot twist in the storyline (in fact I can't remember it ever happening before) but that's exactly what happens here. <br /> <br />Intrigued? Of course you are! Then do yourself a favour and read this book. You won't regret it.	2004-12-31
US	33072451	RU7YT48BJI7X3	0152045597	441139649	Wizard at Work	Books	5	2	2	N	N	An enchanting book	This is a short, sweet, sensational book that should appeal not only to fans of Harry Potter but also lovers of classical fairytales. Wonderfully written and fast paced, it is both witty and wickedly funny. Almost more like a series of short stories than a novel, each chapter sees the hero of the story, a young wizard, embarking on a new adventure--or misadventure. <br /> <br />This is an easy read for the 8 to 12 year old market, and should tempt even the most reluctant of young readers, but in my view it will also definitely appeal to any older teens and adults looking for a good read as well.	2004-12-20
US	33072451	R1V64Z8I40H3FA	0590456822	909891526	The Vampire's Promise	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Passable, but nothing great	Why oh why can't anyone seem to write a decent vampire book? What a waste of a good genre. <br /> <br />This book was okay, but I wouldn't bother reading it again. Thankfully, it was quite short. The premise of this book is that a vampire traps a group of teens in a haunted house, and forces them to choose which one of them shall be his victim. As a plot, that sounds interesting, doesn't it? A kind of an undead Sophie's Choice. However, I soon found that most of the teenagers were so annoying and superfluous that by fifteen pages into the book I was barracking for the vampire to do away with the lot of them! The teens get slightly less annoying as time goes on, but not enough to make me like them...except for Lacey, who's the only decent character. <br /> <br />Not only were the teens annoying, but the author's writing left a lot to be desired too. I felt like saying to her: enough adjectives already! The author spent too much time saying that things were like other things (i.e. 'pinned to the atmosphere like a Velcro wall-jumper' and other similarly weird similes), and not enough time actually developing the plot. There were some interesting observations on the thoughts and relationships of teenagers, but these were counterbalanced with huge logic gaps, especially in the conclusion. Also, the writing style was pedestrian, with a real 'first novel', rushed feel.  <br /> <br />Still, if you're a teen who likes vampire stories, but you don't want them to be scary, then you'll probably like this.	2004-12-16
US	33072451	RP6RLJ6FT0TGY	0064405842	363282330	Catherine Called Birdy	Books	5	4	5	N	N	One word: BRILLIANT!	Without exception, I'm a very picky reader, and also a tough reviewer. As a writer myself, I spend much of my time reviewing and editing my own writing, looking for flaws and inconsistencies and cursing my mistakes when I find them. Consequently, when I read other people's writing, I am also similarly critical, and can't help looking for faults. Sadly, almost without exception, I find them in most books. However, this is one book that I really couldn't fault. I tried, but I just couldn't. My picky nature had to admit defeat: this writer is really, REALLY good! Her maturity, comprehension and attention to detail are truly masterful, and I wish I possessed half her skill as a writer! <br /> <br />This book is amazing in its realism. I could actually believe that it really was a diary written in 1290 by a teenage girl. The author, Karen Cushman, knows her history well, but she presents it in such a bright, witty, matter-of-fact way that this is less of a history lesson and more of a day by day revelation. <br /> <br />The main character in the book, Catherine, is a wonderful, endearing girl whom I couldn't help but like. She is bright, intuitive and intelligent, and she's not afraid to ask the tough questions about life. Rather than simply accepting her fate and the society she lives in, she tries to improve her world. She is kind and fair to the people and animals she meets, which makes her an anomaly in her time but a winsome, admirable heroine in ours. <br /> <br />I must say, though, the best thing about this book is that most of the time it's absolutely side-splittingly hilarious! Catherine lives a difficult life in harsh times, but she does so with an unerring sense of humour and a real love of life. And if that isn't a great moral for young people today then I don't know what is!	2004-12-14
US	33072451	RE025MN7486A8	0595192726	994995423	Rhiannon	Books	4	9	13	N	N	A charming, lovely book	I would like to start this review by saying how much I love all of the stories this author writes, including this one. She obviously has a good heart, a keen wit and a delightful sense of humour. (Actually, she's funnier than most comedians.) Moreover, she is a spellbinding storyteller who can hold a reader's attention to the point where they would prefer to miss sleep or appointments rather than stop reading and put the book down. <br /> <br />That said, I must also say, I do wish this writer would get an editor, or a proof-reader, or a writing coach, or something, because her books are simply awash with spelling and grammar mistakes, to the point where I actually found myself rewriting some of her sentences in my head whilst I was reading! I almost wanted to pick up a red pen to correct all the mistakes, and I'm not even a teacher! <br /> <br />I also found fault with the language used in this book's dialogue, which sounded so American I could practically hear the accent. The book is set in England in 1483, and whilst I do not wish for complete authenticity in the characters' speech (I realise that the way they talked back then was not how we would talk today, and would not make for easy reading) I would have at least expected it to sound just a tad bit English, rather than ye olde Californian. Sorry, but throwing in the occasional \\"'twas\\" or \\"aye\\" does NOT make it English. <br /> <br />However, if you put aside those criticisms, this really is a very lovely, enjoyable book, with delightful, lovable characters. If you decide to read it, you won't be sorry. Oh, and while you're at it, do yourself a favour and check out Evangelynn Stratton's 'Lady Knight' as well, since it's an excellent read too.	2004-12-08
US	33072451	R3HJ7VQOOF15DH	0590383892	577398257	Sirena	Books	5	9	10	N	N	As beautiful as a thousand sunsets	Wow!  <br /> <br />That was the word that came to my mind when I finished reading this book: wow! Usually I am not fond of the use of either first person narrative or present tense in the writing of a book, but in this instance I was willing to make a huge exception. So great is Donna Jo Napoli's writing skill that she not only made both of these narration methods work, but more importantly, she made them work really well--something rarely accomplished by the majority of authors.  <br /> <br />The thing I liked most about the book was that Ms Napoli totally managed to get inside the psyche of the mermaid Sirena--and did so so perfectly that you'd almost think she must be a mermaid herself! The realism of not only this character, but also the other characters, animals, plants and scenery is amazing. In fact, this book is so utterly believable that you might even find yourself suspecting that the gods, goddesses, nymphs and legendary heroes of Greek mythology who regularly pop up in it really do exist. <br /> <br />The plot in this book seems simple--a mermaid must win the love of a mortal man to claim her right to immortality. But in this premise's simplicity is a depth and complexity that astounded me. Either this author was extremely knowledgeable about Greek mythology to begin with (because there's way more stuff in here than you'll ever learn just by watching 'Troy' or 'Clash of the Titans') or she's done her research meticulously. It's kind of like a Greek history/geography lesson, but a million times more fun! You will probably want to set sail for Greece right away, just like I do, to see for yourself the glorious places that this book describes. <br /> <br />Sirena herself is a wonderful character whom you can't help but empathise with. She is naive at first, having lived a relatively sheltered life, but she is intelligent and adaptable, and learns quickly even the hardest of lessons that life has to teach (for even immortal life is not without its ups and downs.)  <br /> <br />If your heart and soul are yearning to read a heartfelt love story, but your brain insists on it being a well-written, believable one with candour and wit, then this beautiful tale is for you. It is listed as a young adult book, which means it is suitable for anyone aged twelve and over, but that recommendation shouldn't put off adult readers, who I'm sure will enjoy it just as much as I did!	2004-11-26
US	33072451	R20INB3GVDHZWV	0505524929	743196609	Virtual Warrior	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Worth your time	'Virtual Warrior' is the third in this series of books, which started with the seriously addictive 'Virtual Heaven' and continued with the not-so-good 'Virtual Desire'. Whilst this one, 'Virtual Warrior', is not quite as gripping or well written as the first in the series, thankfully it is better than the snorefest that was the second. In that second book, we met the insipid and annoying Ardra, and (briefly) the rather more interesting Neil. 'Virtual Warrior' is their story. <br /> <br />Fortunately, the character of Ardra has improved in this book. She has developed both a personality and a backbone. And Neil is just as intriguing as he ever was. <br /> <br />Disillusioned with his life and the world in general following the death of his mother, Neil decides to follow in the footsteps of his business partner Gwen and enter the amazing world of Tolemac, which he has glimpsed in the virtual reality game 'Tolemac Wars III'. He hopes to make a new life for himself there as a merchant, living the high life in a simpler society, with no personal commitments or incumberments to weigh him down. However, what he finds is not quite what he expected... <br /> <br />This book is a little slow to begin with, but picks up after a few chapters and gets more interesting. Ms Lawrence's writing is a little disjointed at times, and as an author, she doesn't always meet her burden of ensuring logic and plot continuity to my satisfaction, but then I'm a very picky critic. Overall, this is a satisfying read that will please fans of both this series and romance books in general. <br /> <br />By the way, if you've read any other of Ms Lawrence's books, you'd know that she has a thing for interesting character and place names. This one's no exception. I liked the fact that 'Ardra' is a palindrome, whilst the irony of Neil's name changing to 'Lien' (names in Tolemac are usually backward) was not lost on me. In French, lien means 'tie, bond, connection' which was, of course, the one thing Lien was trying to escape by going he Tolemac. He was trying to escape the personal ties that bound him. Of course, that was his plan, but the best made plans of mice and men...  <br /> <br />	2004-11-16
US	33072451	R1VS93PBPUA1JD	0505523930	471715463	Virtual Desire (Perfect Heroes)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Only three and a half stars, really, but I rounded up.	Firstly, a word of warning: if you are thinking of reading this book, then make sure you read its predecessor 'Virtual Heaven' first, or there'll be a lot of stuff you won't understand. Sadly, though, this may have the same downside for you that it did for me: you will compare the two books, and find this one lacking by contrast. <br /> <br />In the first book in the series, 'Virtual Heaven', I loved the character of Vad. Okay, maybe that was partly because he was so gorgeously blonde, and I pictured him as looking like Orlando Bloom in 'The Lord of the Rings' (swoon!). Anyway, I couldn't wait to read his story in this book, 'Virtual Desire'. But boy, was I let down. I mean, don't get me wrong, this is still a reasonably good read, and Ann Lawrence's writing is still better than most others in the romance genre. But this book appeared to have been written in a rush, and the story did not flow the way it should. Some of the conversations between characters made me wonder if they were even listening to each other, or if they were just making random statements to explain the plot twists. More importantly, Vad appeared to lack some of the character traits that made him so endearing in 'Virtual Heaven'. He seemed almost two dimensional in places (and isn't a virtual reality game character actually supposed to appear three dimensional?!) <br /> <br />If you've already read 'Virtual Heaven' then you are probably already hooked on this series, and I would encourage you to read this, as it will satisfy your itch for more. However, don't expect it to be an earth-shattering experience. How best to illustrate the difference between the two books? Well, 'Virtual Heaven' is like going on a date with Hugh Jackman--gorgeous and appealing and very sexy! This one's more like a date with Hugh Heffner--there'll still be sex and thrills, but you won't like it half as much, especially since the thrills are old, and looking at the man will make you hark back to better times in the past! <br /> <br />Two more points, one good, one bad: I did really like the character of Neil in this. He was very appealing, and I look forward to reading his story in the next book in the series, 'Virtual Warrior'. Less appealing, though, was the cover art on this book, which made Vad look like a steroid-pumping, dark-haired man with dirty GREY hair painted on. Ick! I know you shouldn't judge a book by its cover, but really... <br /> <br />	2004-11-05
US	33072451	R3MPUSROUVK0E9	0006719651	743406798	The Stars are Upside Down (Lions)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A sentimental favourite from my teens	When I was a teenager, I loved this book. If you like strong, independant heroines, or if you've ever wanted to leave the city behind you and move to the country (or maybe even to another country), or if you yearn for freedom and room to move, then you'll probably love this too. <br /> <br />Set in a time when Australia was first being colonised by the British, some two hundred years ago or so, Tavy (Octavia) decides to leave behind her lacklustre life of drudgery and toil as a servant in cold, smoggy London and start anew, in the fledgeling colony of Australia. Her decision to go is a courageous one, as the journey is long and hard (months spent travelling in a crowded, dank boat, followed by life on the wild frontier) but Tavy faces it with courage and optimism, and is not disappointed, especially with the wide open spaces, clean air and relative freedom she finds in Australia. <br /> <br />Whilst life in the Australian outback is not easy, and the job she takes there as a servant just as hard as the one she left behind, Tavy is nonetheless enamoured with her new life...Almost as enamoured as she is with her new neighbour, a bushman called Jake, and his bonny baby, Joe, who has been abandoned by his mother, who left Jake for another man. Whilst Tavy at first only visits Jake's hut to care for baby Joe, she also finds herself beginning to care for Jake, too. <br /> <br />This is a lovely story, with more than a dash of romance (although not the mushy sort!), which is written for teens, but may be enjoyed by discerning readers of any age.	2004-11-05
US	33072451	R3GQ8YFKLDZYA4	059509838X	322990130	Lady Knight (Lady Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	5	23	24	N	N	Girl power at its most compelling	I'm a fussy reviewer, and I know I shouldn't have given this one five stars: the writing was a little flawed, the editing and punctuation substandard, the cover art lacked professionalism, and the way the dialogue slipped from old English to modern American lingo with some Victorianisms (yeah, I know that's probably not a real word, so sue me!) slipped into the mix did disturb me somewhat. But nonetheless, I just couldn't help but like it. The story can only be described as utterly compelling! Evangelynn Stratton is a wonderful author who has been generous enough to share this lovely story with us, and I can't fault her for that. <br /> <br />I have to admit, I'm a sucker for two things: romance, and strong female characters. Sadly, most books in the romance genre are insipidly annoying, with characters I can't identify with, or even like. This book, however, is not like that at all. The characters are well developed, and even at their worst, are undeniably likeable. Ironically, what makes them so perfect is the fact that they are NOT perfect, if you know what I mean. They are wonderful but flawed--in other words, they are HUMAN. Pet is a beautiful, strong heroine, made even more lovely by the fact that she does not realise just what a treasure she really is. Her incredible strength (both of body and of will) is inspiring, as is the touching vulnerability she hides beneath this indomitable facade. Matthew, the hero, whilst being a wonderfully intelligent man, is a fool at times--albeit a loveable, good-hearted one--but he is man enough to admit his mistakes, which makes him even more attractive. All of the minor characters are well written too, and I am keen to get hold of the sequels to this book just to see how their stories pan out. (Watch out Amazon, there's an order coming your way!) <br /> <br />I was hooked on this book until the very end, and I have to admit, I actually cried a few times, both from sadness and joy. (If you're going to buy this book, buy a box of tissues as well, because it will really move you!) I only wish other writers would follow in the footsteps of Ms Stratton, and give us more strong, intelligent, brave heroines to aspire to! Bravo! <br /> <br />	2004-11-05
US	33072451	R2OHV7KJ8DRRMT	0060571829	611198647	Amber Was Brave, Essie Was Smart	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Not just brave and smart but also amazing!	This book contains poetry, and as a general rule I don't like poetry (unless it's funny, and stars that charming man from Nantucket!) However, I made an exception for this book because it's just so GOOD! It's not that rhyming sort of poetry, but a gentle, flowing sort that's even more poetic, which tells a story in separate, glorious little parts. <br /> <br />I'm not ashamed to admit, I was so touched by the courage and strength of Amber and Essie in the face of adversity, and their sisterly love for one another, that I cried like a baby when I read this. It's a beautiful story! Yes, sometimes life is hard, and isn't fair. But these kids have a way of coping that's both innocent and wise at the same time. Truly joyous and inspiring!	2004-10-20
US	33072451	R959ZW9FENAIN	0689828772	272188685	The Raging Quiet	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Deserves all five of its stars!	Some truly amazing things come out of New Zealand: the Haka, the Lord of the Rings movies, and this book.    I won't rehash the storyline of this book, as the other reviewers here have already described it very well. I won't give you any spoilers, either, because I hate it when reviewers do that! (Why buy the book when someone has already told you the ending in their review?) What I will say, though, is that writer Sherryl Jordan has gone above and beyond to write this impressive novel. All of the characters in it are good, and the heroine, Marnie, is awesome, but Raven is especially endearing--it is obvious from the way the author has written this touchingly beautiful deaf character that she herself has worked extensively with the deaf. (I find it rather poignant, too, that Raven, a so called 'madman', ultimately turns out to be the sanest person in the whole village!)    Sometimes I am overly generous with my ratings, but this is not one of those times. This really is a five star novel! I notice that it is described as a book for young adults, but seriously, I would thoroughly recommend it to readers of any age who want a mature, intelligent, well written, well thought out novel that will totally grip them and not let them go again! Trust me, this book is better than a whole pack of chocolate biscuits, and will satisfy you for much longer.    Obviously, I totally agree with the other glowing reviews this book has been given on this website. However, I've noticed that it got a few bad reviews, which were all so silly they made me laugh out loud. The reviews written by 'evilgrrlfriday' and 'Nadia Batcha' were particularly laughable--either they were reading a copy of the book with half the pages missing, or they read it the same way my boyfriend sometimes likes to watch videos, by simply 'fast-forwarding' through most of the dialogue. Seriously, this is an easy-to-read, well written book, so how did they manage to misunderstand it so completely? *sigh* My advice isto take those bad reviews with a grain of salt, or even better, to ignore them entirely, because the people who wrote them obviously didn't read or understand this book properly--if they had, then they wouldn't have raised the points or questions they did. The fault is with their comprehension skills, not with the book itself. Read it, and then read the reviews, and you'll know exactly what I mean!    P.S. I actually do have one criticism of this book, and that is that its American cover design is not as nice as the British one. The Brits version is absolutely gorgeous. Even the inside layout on the 'B format' is way better. Check it out on Amazon.uk, where you will at least see the front cover art.	2004-10-15
US	33072451	R22TR1G3LYG5L	0142302082	857055178	Goose Chase	Books	5	1	1	N	N	You'd have to be a goose not to enjoy this!	This is an amazing book, which reveals something I've always suspected--that being rich and beautiful is not all it's cracked up to be!    The storyline has all the elements of a classic fairytale--and yet it manages to turn many of them on their ear, giving us a totally fresh perspective.     Alexandria, the heroine, is a smart, spunky and sassy girl who rises above her harsh circumstances with courageous flair. Her geese, too, are also endearingly resourceful, and both her companions and her foes are intriguing to say the least.     All of the characters in this book, even the minor ones, are well written, as is the dialogue. This was a joy to read, and I would recommend it highly to anyone of any age with even a modicum of a sense of humour. I look forward to reading more of the award-winning Ms Kindl's novels!	2004-10-13
US	33072451	R1HTHU0GC24KOO	0843944463	561149778	Mine to Take (Futuristic Romance)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Better than your average romance	This book wasn't bad. The characters were fun, the sex was frequent and compelling, and the story had a halfway decent plotline. I don't think it quite deserved the insane level of adulation and adoration that has been heaped on it by the other reviewers here, but I still think it's a good read and worth the money you'll spend to buy it.    However, I do believe there may be a special level of hell reserved for its bone-lazy editor/proofreader, who appears to have done next to no work on it. There are numerous punctuation errors, one paragraph is printed twice in a row, and they let this line into the book: HE STOOD IN THE MOONLIGHT, WALKING TOWARDS HER. Huh? So which is he doing: standing or walking? He can't do both! I mean, he's talented...but not THAT talented.    I must admit, I did lose a lot of faith in this book in several places. Firstly, there's the scene in which a knight pulls out a light sabre. Seriously, the author seemed so keen to rip off--I mean, pay homage to--Star Wars, why didn't she just go the whole hog and say JEDI knight? Secondly, when the hero and heroine have to get through a huge tract of deadly plants, I was forced to wonder: I know this is a simple society, but even ancient hunter gatherer societies from time immemorial have used fire as a means to control plant growth. How has no one living there ever thought before now: 'Hmmm. Dangerous plants are growing rather close to our settlement. Why don't we burn them back a bit?' Seriously! There are more flaws, but it would take all day to list them. Sadly, it was the flaws that made me laugh far more than the actual 'witty banter' in the book, which really only made me smile a little.    In spite of any of my criticisms, however, I quite liked this book. You probably will too, especially if you like men and cats (and let's face it, who doesn't!) Buy it, by all means. But expect it to be like a man--it's kind of nice, you'll be glad you have it around, and you'll even accept its flaws, but it'll annoy you sometimes, and then you'll really wish you could change it!    By the way, if any of you Dara Joy fans are wondering why no sequel to this book has yet been published, you might want to read why on Dara's website [...] When you read that, I am sure you will join with me in wishing Dara Joy good luck in future with sorting out the unfortunate problems she is facing.	2004-10-10
US	33072451	R1MZFPJTAIVYBJ	0505523078	532873024	Virtual Heaven (Perfect Heroes Series)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Surprisingly good	If this weren't a romance book, I might only have given it 4 stars, or 4 and a half, because I'm a picky, finicky reviewer. But for the romance genre, I must admit, this was actually incredibly good! It had a wonderful, intriguing plot, a compelling storyline and characters that were utterly believable. I have to confess, I couldn't put it down--it was a real page turner.    The heroine was amazing, the hero was cute and adorable in a very manly, smouldering way, and even the minor characters were three dimensional. Moreover, the author's attention to detail was meticulous, giving the reader a true sense of--as the title suggests--virtual reality.    If you like a book with simmering sexual tension and adrenaline-pumping adventure, then this is for you.    My only real qualm was that I thought the cover art on the back of the book was a bit tacky, but maybe that's just me.	2004-09-30
US	33072451	R3RTG8PZASD7C8	0064404773	611302574	Beauty: A Retelling of the Story of Beauty and the Beast	Books	3	23	29	N	N	This could have been so much more	I couldn't wait to finish this book...but not because I loved it, just because I just wanted it to be over and done with, so I could move onto reading something better!    I have always loved the story of Beauty and the Beast, and I have always been a sucker for rewrites of classic fairytales too. Thus I looked forward to reading this book like a farmer in a time of drought looks forward to rain.    How disappointed I was! Don't get me wrong, it's not a bad story, and Robin McKinley does bring a pleasing, fresh perspective to her interpretation of it, particularly in the background details and backdrops. But her writing style is just so...well, so ANNOYING! Her writing meanders, her timelines are askew, and where her paragraphs begin and end doesn't make sense. I don't think I'm being too picky here when I say (in a tongue-twisting way) that I just want to read a book that reads like a real book should! Some may call McKinley's style innovative or artistic--I can only call it painful! Where the story should have flowed like a downhill river, in many places it seemed more like sludge being pushed uphill. For a while there, I almost forgave the book for its strange style because it was written in the seventies--a time when, let's face it, experimentation was the norm in many aspects of life--but then I thought, hell no, Richard Adams wrote his incredible 'Watership Down' in the seventies, and it was absolutely brilliant! This book has no real excuse, except perhaps that it was McKinley's first novel. Hopefully her writing style has improved since then...but I won't be reading any of her other books to find out! (I'm just not that much of a masochist!)    Writing style aside, I also think that McKinley had problems with character development, or at least with the book's heroine she did anyway. The minor characters were wholly credible and well fleshed out, and I could even understand why the Beast had to be portrayed as broody and enigmatic too, but for all of the maincharacter Beauty's alleged learning and wisdom, she actually seemed rather quiet and silly, and at times downright illogical. In spite of her having a brain, she doesn't say much of any consquence, or ask many questions. And I didn't sense much of a rapport or chemistry between her and the Beast, either--they only seemed to mesh because they had to, because they were lonely, and there was no one else. That didn't appeal to my sense of romance at all! It should have been love, not convenience, that brought them together! In fact, I think the heroine had more of a rapport with her horse than with the Beast. (Actually, the horse was the best written character in the book, perhaps because he says nothing: dialogue is NOT this author's strength; she does background details much better than she does conversations between people, which always seem stilted.)    This wasn't a bad book, but then again, it wasn't a brilliant one either. I can only wonder at the number of great reviews it's gotten--I don't understand that at all. Then again, I'll never understand the popularity of Adam Sandler movies either! I think perhaps its popularity is due to the fact that EVERYBODY already loves the story of Beauty and the Beast. It's a classic story we were all read when we were children, so it holds a special place in our hearts, reminding us of good times long past. But even if we loved the original story, that's no reason to love every version of it, including this one! Especially given the rushed ending on this, which is so hurried it will leave you not only unsatisfied, but also wondering whether a)the author was being pressured by her editor to meet a deadline, or b) she just got lazy, or c)she hasn't got a clue how to finish off a book properly, or d) all of the above.    I realise that by bagging this book, I'm going to incur the wrath of its diehard fans, who will rate my review as NOT helpful. But so what about that? I'm more concerned with honesty than popularity, and honestly, this should have been written better! No wonder the author went back at a later date and had another try at the whole 'Beauty and the Beast' theme by writing another book about it. I would have too if I'd written this.	2004-09-27
US	33072451	RQFDU3K3351PK	0152166637	853680478	Dragon's Bait	Books	5	27	27	N	N	A fabulous little book!	This was a great book: a nice, easy-to-read page turner that had me hooked from start to finish. <br /> <br />I had no problems in believing any of the characters or settings. In fact, while I read this story, I was totally there! It was so compelling. Vivian Vande Velde is obviously an intelligent, accomplished author, and I look forward to reading more of her books. <br /> <br />The recommended reading age for this book--12 and up--was spot on, but I'd recommend it not just to teens, but to any adults who like a good fantasy read too. I mean, I'm 33 and I thought it was brilliant!	2004-09-27
US	33072451	RC8NQZV3CN8SD	0618378235	215129408	The Princess, the Crone, and the Dung-Cart Knight (The Squire's Tales)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The second best book of the year!	So far this year I have only read one book better than this one--and that was 'The Savage Damsel And The Dwarf', by the same author who wrote this, Gerald Morris. <br /> <br />Mr Morris has a true gift for writing. All of his books are good, and I would heartily recommend reading every single one of them. However, it is in his books that star strong, willful female heroines that he really shines. Let's face it, strong women are inspiring and exciting, and unfortunately, also rather too rare in literature, or even in films and television. Girl power is great! (Personally, I think that was why the tv series 'Buffy' was always better than its spinoff 'Angel', because it had more strong, likeable female characters.) <br /> <br />In this novel, young, brave, determined Sarah goes looking for revenge, but ends up finding herself. Her journey is as much about self-discovery as it is a quest for justice, and the outcome is upliftingly beautiful and poignant. <br /> <br />Yes, this book tackles some serious issues, but thankfully, in the skilled hands of Gerald Morris, it is also incredibly witty, entertaining and laugh-out-loud funny! Plus, as always, there's lots of knights in shining armour, exchanging both swordplay and wordplay equally cuttingly. <br /> <br />I only hope that this brilliant author writes more books in this series, because I've read them all now, and I'm going into serious withdrawal...	2004-09-24
US	33072451	R19V60G7LUKJ61	0316367958	296260736	Saint George and the Dragon	Books	3	21	33	N	N	Nice pictures, but...	Having read the other glowing reviews that have been written about this book, I was prepared to be dazzled by it! <br /> <br />Unfortunately, when I read it myself, I was left somewhat disappointed. The pictures were nice, but the wording definitely left something to be desired. Keeping in mind the age group that this was written for, I think the dialogue should have been simplified (you'll have to explain the meaning of many of the words and phrases, even to older kids) and shortened, if only into smaller paragraphs (more than twenty lines is way too long for a single paragraph! Kids' attentions will wander way before it's over!) <br /> <br />It's an okay book to read with your kids (be prepared for them to interrupt you with a lot of questions!) but they might have a hard time reading it by themselves. <br /> <br />If I were the editor, I would have told the author: \\"Nice start for a first draft, but please--rewrite this!\\"	2004-08-29
US	33072451	RA2YJR3QOIM8Q	0505523833	323263452	The Wild Swans (Faerie Tale Romance)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	This was like a marshmallow!	I thought that this book was like a marshmallow: light and fluffy, but also sweet and enjoyable, leaving one with a nice aftertaste.    I must admit, I'm a sucker for fairytale remakes, especially those written for adults, so this was right up my alley. It could have used a bit more editing, I'll also admit, since it was overly long in places, but overall, I enjoyed it more than enough to forgive it its shortfalls.    Whilst placing her story in a fairytale setting, the author still manages to have a wry, humorous, tongue-in-cheek dig at modern men, especially their love of sports, their dislike of women's gossip, and their propensity to be guided by their, er, appendages in their decision making. That said, the hero of this story is still portrayed as an endearing, intelligent and attractive man that readers will warm to, as well as relate to.    The heroine, too, is likeable, and her inability to talk does not detract from the storyline, but rather reminds us that often, actions really can speak louder than words!    This is a light-hearted romp that will easily please most romance readers.	2004-08-24
US	33072451	R2TRONWAGL7VKO	0553582232	937215647	By Design (Medievals)	Books	3	13	14	N	N	Three and a half stars really	This book reminded me of an overgrown shrub--it was undeniably beautiful in places, but it really needed to be trimmed back! A bit more editing should have been done before publishing to iron out its flaws and make the wording flow better. <br /> <br />To give the writer credit, though, she does seem to have a rather good feel for historical writing. In places I could almost see, smell and taste the dubious delights of ye olde London. The author didn't gloss over the harsh realities of life back them, but rather used them to her advantage: they don't bring down the book at all, or darken the story, but instead create a contrasting backdrop against which the main characters shine even brighter. <br /> <br />Joan is a lovely heroine, brave and determined and artistic. But it is the hero, Rhys, whom you will really adore. Unlike many of the 'heroes' I've read about in historical romances lately, he is not cruel or bitter or bent on revenge, but nice and honest and really very sweet, all of which makes him a lot more manly and attractive than those other annoying, overbearing 'heroes'! <br /> <br />This book actually has a decent plotline too--which is more than can be said for many romance novels thesedays--and while it's not a master work of literature, it is nonetheless an entertaining, appealing read that is reasonably good for its genre.	2004-08-22
US	33072451	R2XFDONPLH81CP	055358183X	623737680	The Bride and the Beast (Once Upon a Time)	Books	3	17	25	N	N	Not bad, but...	I must admit, I liked this book better than the only other one of Teresa Medeiros' titles that I've read, which was 'Fairest Of Them All'. I might even have given this one three and a half stars if I could have. For all that it's not exactly a master work of modern literature, it's still not a bad example of the 'romance' genre, and features some rather good writing in places, along with a few very interesting supporting characters (I did like the slutty sisters!) But I was annoyed that the author suspended logic a bit too often.     For instance, could a not-particularly strong man really carry a bathtub full of water up the steep, crumbling steps of a tower? (That would weigh a ton!) And how is it that the hero always seems to see exactly what the heroine looks like in the dark, right down to the shape of her breasts, while she can't see him at all? (Is it that only the hero has been eating his carrots?) And why is it that the heroine feels unattractive for being a bit plump when the year is 1761? Sure, small waists were in vogue back then, but plumpness was still considered an attractive attribute, especially since it was a sign of affluence. The author has definitely put some modern day values into her heroine's initial dissatisfaction with her body image, and used them to try and make us feel empathy for her--after all, many of her readers will undoubtedly feel the same pressure to conform, and be thin. But those are today's society's values, not necessarily those of rural Scotland in the 1700s.     That said, when you set the novel's many incongruous flaws aside, this is still a sweet, mostly light-hearted story which the majority of undemanding romance readers will thoroughly enjoy. If you're looking for a quick, easy, formulaic read starring a heroine who's easy to relate to then this is probably a more-than suitable book for you.     However, I would like to finish this review by making a point. Teresa Medeiros' books--and in fact many of those written by other romance writers--seem to use a lot of plotlines that involve women being imprisoned (like this one did), held against their will, mentally tortured, humiliated, sexually harrassed and pawed over unremittingly. If this was the plot of a movie, especially a pornographic one, there would be a huge outcry from women's and family-oriented lobby groups, and it would probably be banned (or at least, it would be in my country, where only non-violent erotica is allowed in films, and sexual harrssment is against the law.) But somehow, romance books are allowed to include these at times disturbing elements, often with the enthusiastic encouragement of us women, who buy them by the millions and clamour for more. Moreover, these books are not rated 'adults only', and can even be sold to kids! Please understand me, I'm not trying to make a protest here--I'm just saying, it does seem a rather odd double standard. We deride men for their love of porn, and pass laws about it, but look what we ourselves read! Personally, I don't consider imprisonment and humiliation 'romantic', and I think romance writers would do better if they backed away from these troubling themes (even in historical romances, which are obviously set in what were harsher times for women) and focused more on humourous, intelligent, well thought out storylines instead. Men and women can still have compelling confrontations and disagreements without resorting to violent, barbaric means. But then what do I know, eh? I'm only a humble writer...	2004-08-17
US	33072451	R13JC3ODXMIQX5	0140547517	453332971	A Fairy Went a-Marketing	Books	5	8	9	N	N	So beautiful it will bring a tear to your eye!	I can sum up this book in one word--exquisite!  <br /> <br />Whilst there aren't actually a lot of words in it, every picture is definitely worth a thousand of them. What text there is, however, is poetic, poignant and full of worthy lessons for children about how rewarding looking after animals and nature can be, without being at all preachy. Tying in beautifully with those words, Jamichael Henterly's lush illustrations are some of the best I've ever seen--this illustrator's attention to detail will keep you looking at those pictures for hours, finding new and wonderful things all the while. <br /> <br />This may be a book for small children, but even if you don't have a child, read it anyway! It's like comfort food for the soul.	2004-08-17
US	33072451	R2P6U1WQS7QVEC	0618196811	945167925	The Savage Damsel and the Dwarf (The Squire's Tales) book 3	Books	5	11	11	N	N	I'm not worthy! Best book EVER!	I would honestly give this book more stars if I could! Don't be deceived into thinking this is simply a kids book--whilst I thoroughly recommend it as a great read for kids and teens, it is in fact fabulous literary fodder for readers of any age, especially those with a fascination for Arthurian legends, or anyone interested in seeing Sir Thomas Malory's work Le Morte D'Arthur updated and made more accessible. This is the BEST interpretation of the tale 'The Kitchen Knight' that I have ever read (and I've read a few of them). This one actually explains all the loose ends and incomprehensible plot twists that the original version contained, and improves the story no end. Gerald Morris is a truly gifted author, and I frequently laughed out loud at the delightful, witty dialogue in this book. So enthralled was I that once I started reading it, I couldn't put it down, not even to go to sleep (my eyes were red and puffy the next day, but it was worth it!) Not only that, but as soon as I finished it, I started reading it all over again. It was just that good!    I loved the underlying premise of this story--that beauty is more than just skindeep, and that one should not choose their friends and allies just for their looks. None of the main characters in this book are what they seem, and the fun is in unravelling the mysteries surrounding them. I adored the character of Lady Lynet--she is brave, smart and not afraid to speak her mind or take chances. Furthermore, she is a big, strong girl with a healthy appetite, which makes her a very refreshing change from your usual insipid, willow-thin, eat-like-a-sparrow heroines. And although she starts out as a damsel in distress, she is never a weak and helpless girl, but rather a resourceful go-getting kind of woman. Truly, Lynet is an inspiration for girls today. I find it interesting that her character is written by a male writer. Gerald Morris obviously has a deep respect for strong, capable girls...as should we all! Lady Lynetfinds her match in the dwarf, Roger, who is as interesting a character as you'll ever find, and a wonderful choice of male lead. Most authors would have cast a tall, handsome, gallant knight in shining armour as the hero of the story. Not so this author! And I'm glad. Roger is absolutely brilliant, and far more endearing than any of the knights in the book, even the great and witty Sir Gawain.    Although part 3 of a series, this book is a stand alone work that can be read independently of the others without any qualms or misunderstandings. The other reviewers who gave this five stars are right--this is an incredible, funny, intelligent book, and one not to be missed!	2004-07-30
US	33072451	R2DUVWFBC3OG91	0553563335	844209901	Fairest of Them All	Books	3	26	33	N	N	Sure I believe in recycling, but this is ridiculous!	I bought two Teresa Medeiros books-- this one and 'The Bride and the Beast'. I read 'Bride' first, then this one, and was left with the conclusion that I may as well have just saved my money and read 'Bride' twice, since the plotlines of both were so similar! How many times can Ms Medeiros use these same twists in her stories-- the mad father, the woman locked in the tower, the man being a beast, etc.-- before she grows weary of recycling the same tired old plots? Don't get me wrong, Ms Medeiros is not a bad author. Sometimes her writing really grabs me, and several times I've caught myself laughing out loud at her witty japes. But there's not enough of this sparkling gold to outshine the dross and repitition, and I was left with that same feeling I experienced upon watching the first series of '24' on tv-- you know the one, when you wonder just how many times per episode the wife and daughter can get kidnapped! If Ms Medeiros can come up with some original plotlines (and stop using the word 'twas so often, which really got on my nerves by the thousandth repitition)and use a little more realism (you have to suspend logic rather too often whilst reading her books)then I think she'll be a really good writer. Until then, though, I wouldn't recommend her work very highly, unless you're really bored, or you fear change and enjoy the claustrophobic comfort of things always staying the same! More specifically, though, I wouldn't recommend her books if you have a problem with Stockholm Syndrome being used as a plot point, because it seems that the more the gals in Ms Medeiros's books get locked up and treated horribly, the more they fall in love with their men. This author seems very fond of the 'treat 'em mean, keep 'em keen' theory. If you find battered wives romantic, then this is for you!     However, if you want a gripping romance with decent plotlines about an intriguing hidden beauty, I would recommend Shana Abe's 'The Secret Swan' instead of this.    I initially gravitated towards this book because I'm a fan of fairytales written for adults. However, this oft-times disturbing tome is no fairytale! (Or not one of the happier ones, anyway.) Don't let the pleasant, benign, even witty beginning of the book convince you otherwise--it gets worse, fast. And don't think that it's full of fairytale magic and wonder, either, even though some reviews of the book give that impression. Other than the fairly ludicrous subplot about one of the 'hero' Austyn's forebears having had a failed romance with a fairy woman, who then cursed him and his male descendants throughout successive generations to hurt the women they loved, this is not a magical story set in any enchanted fairytale world. (Actually, to me the fairy's curse seemed like a weird, illogical thing--as an aggrieved woman herself, surely she would not want other women to suffer as she did, but rather would seek to hurt only the menfolk involved! To that end, cursing the men with something else, like ugliness, exceptionally bad body odour or heriditary gout, would have made far more sense than enacting a curse that doomed WOMEN!)     Another fault with this book is that it doesn't seem very historically accurate--in spite of the fact that it is supposed to be set in England in 1325, it really could have occurred in any other time or place. This author seems very lazy with her research and narrative: there is no real evidence in the book that the characters lived in 'ye olde England'--not in their speech, their manner or their lifestyles. Even worse, though, is the fact that the author tries to convince us that Austyn is Welsh. Shyeah, right, he's Welsh--about as Welsh as Coca Cola or koalas. If he's Welsh then I'm a Martian!    I'm usually quite a forgiving critic if I can see that the author at least had good intentions and gave it a damned good try. I'll even suspend logic on occasion, so long as I'm intrigued or well entertained by the storyline. But there's no forgiving this! It's lazily written, unrealistic, duplicitious of the author's other books, and expects us to believe that a woman will fall in love with a man who not only torments and humiliates her repeatedly, but then also imprisons and practically rapes her too. (Most of the sex scenes take part when the heroine is taken prisoner against her will by the hero!) If this were the subject of a text book about psychology then it might make compelling reading, lending us an insightful, heart-wrenching glimpse into why women stay with abusive partners. But this is supposed to be a light-hearted romance. A ROMANCE, goddammit! Forgive me if I didn't really find this book romantic. I'm just not that dumb.	2004-07-30
