US	33169143	RAX6YWM4IKKE7	0064471047	915528414	The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe	Books	4	2	4	N	N	The Lion, The Witch, And The Wardrobe a reveiw by Irene	Have you ever imagined being sent away to someone's house, that has a secret that no one knows but you?  The house in The Lion, The Witch, and The Wardrobe had a secret , which only Peter, Susan,Edmund, and Lucy knows.  Once they went through the wardrobe in the house,their adventures would begin in the land called Narnia, and their lives will change.  <br />I love this book, because it tells about Lucy trying to save her friend Tumnus.  It tells about the wonderful adventures she had with her friends, Peter, Susan, and Edmund and the great dangers they faced in Narnia. I also liked the little rhymes that describes Aslan, the great lion.<br />I wish that this book would be longer and the adventures of Narnia would countinue in this book.  <br />I recommend this book for people who like adventure stories, because this book is filled with adventures.<br />My favorite part  is when the dwarf made Edmond a prisoner and used a whip to threaten him to go faster.  If the White Witch ( a terrible witch) that calls herself queen of Narnia wants Edmond to go faster, the dwarf whips him until he goes faster.<br />My other favorite part is when Edmond got tricked into bringing Peter, Susan and Lucy to her because she wants to turn Edmond and his friends into stone.  They are smart and she doesn't want them to break the White Witch's spell. The spell is a spell that will keep Narnia always in a winter season. <br />On the map, I think it is a little confusing because it doesn't show the place where Peter, Susan, Edmond, and Lucy came through the Wardrobe to Narnia, but the story is exciting.	2004-05-17
US	33169143	R3ED0MGMQCRQ2K	0590448323	631261721	Karen's Doll (Baby-Sitters Little Sister, No. 23)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Review by 5th Grader at PS42	Do you have a doll from London, England? Karen brewer does. Karen's grandmother gives her a English doll from England. The doll is very expensive and Karen takes good care of it. Soon Karen's best friend, Nancy has to get her appendix taken out. Karen generously loans her doll to Nancy, but Nancy thought it was for her to keep! What will Karen do? Will Nancy keep the doll forever?<br />I enjoyed reading Karen's Doll because it relates to every person. Once in a while, people will make mistakes. If I were in Karen's shoes, I would feel very sad (just lke Karen does) that I lost my doll when Nancy made a mistake and thought it was for her to keep. <br />In the middle of the story, I was hoping Ann M. Martin would tell me what Kristy said to Nancy when she helped Karen loan the doll to Nancy, but Ann M. Martin did not. In some other books Ann M. Martin wrote, it explains every detail and I understood everything. Although Ann M. Martin did not tell me what Kristy said to Nancy, this is still a great book.<br />My favorite part is when Karen gets the doll. I feel very happy for Karen since she liked the doll so much. My least favorite part was when Karen loaned the doll to Nancy and Nancy thought it was for her to keep. I felt sorry for Karen when I read that part of the book because her doll was not with her. <br />This book's writing is simple and the vocabulary is not very difficult. I would recommend this book for elementary students because it has simple writing and vocabulary. Elementary students should also read other books by Ann M. Martin. Some examples are Karen's Big Lie, Karen's Baby-sitter,Karen's New Year, and Karen's Haircut. Ann M. Martin's \\"Karen\\" books, which are realistic fiction are great! If you enjoy reading realistic fiction books, Karen's Doll is a great choice. Check it out!!!	2004-05-07
US	33169143	R2D7ANW1B9F4ZH	076361792X	264726385	Judy Moody Predicts the Future (Book #4)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Review By Student at PS42	Judy Moody Predicts the Future is a interesting book because she predicts everything correct but 1 prediction turns out to be incorrect. Is she really psychic or not? <br />This book is interesting because Judy's correct most of the time when she predicts the future, but one time she didn't predict it correctly. Do you think she can predict the future? Her prediction was about 100 percent or more on her spelling test. She went to the library and read a book about a boy who put a dictionary under his pillow and knew every word in the dictionary. So Judy did the same but it didn't turn out the way it's suppose to. <br />If I was Judy I wouldn't do that because that might be fake. I think it would be superstitious because that happened only once in a lifetime. I don't think it's fair that the person who wrote the book is trying to make kids believe it and it won't come true.<br />My favorite parts of the book are when Judy gets everybody's hopes up that she's psychic. I think Judy wants attention because she probably wants to be popular. The part I dislike is when Judy predict the future and it was wrong.<br />I would recommend this book for people who have lots of moods, for example from bored to happy and from mean to nice.	2004-05-07
US	33169143	R4H8U7EXUGQR2	0440414806	159975375	Holes	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Holes (A review by Jason)	There is no lake in Camp Green Lake.  What kind of start is that?  Well, if you want to know, you came to the right person.  This book is called Holes.  It is an adventure book you'll never forget.  Holes tells you about Stanley, a boy that believes his family is under a spell.  This is Stanley's proof: he was walking home from school when a pair of shoes that belonged to a popular baseball player named Clyde Livingston or known as \\"Sweet Feet\\" hit him.  Stanley is sent to to Camp Green Lake because everyone thought he stole the shoes.  Stanley turns from good boy to bad boy or a D-tent boy.  When the warden is to find something, Stanley and his buddy Zero are gaining on her.  When Stanley finds this thing the warden wants, will he get to go home?<br />I really liked Holes because it takes you on an adventure that  won't forget.  They even made a it into a movie.  It grabs the reader's mind opinions.  They really want to learn more about it .  \\"There is no lake in Camp Green Lake\\".  This sentence grabs the reader and makes the reader and takes him or her guessing what is Camp Green Lake , where is it.     If you read this book already, did you enjoy it?  I hope you liked it like me because it is reallya good book for reading.  I started reading it in the summer.  Everyone usually kind of  gets in trouble sometime in school.  But how does Stanley get in trouble for what he didn't do?  Stanley is really not easy to be if you were in his shoes because Stanley faces trouble like the shoe stealing and just takes the blame.  Most people will say something to try to get themselves into, but not Stanley.<br />In Holes, it doesn't really tell much about Stanley's friends. They are Zigzag, Armpit, Magnet, Zero, X-Ray, and Squid.  The story really only talks about him and his great-great grandfather.  It doesn't really talk about what happened after Stanley and Zero returned home. Zero's real name is Hector Zeroni.<br />My favorite part of the story is when Stanley and Zero finds what the warden wants, the gold.  It really belonged to Stanley.  It even had his name on it.  I chose this as my favorite part because I want that box of gold and it could buy me a fortune.	2004-05-05
US	33169143	RHMR5233FI7E7	0590374516	459592464	If You Only Knew (Friendship Ring)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Helen's review of "If Only You Knew"	\\"When you're the yougest of five girls,nothing's your own\\" that's the first sentence of the book.Zoe Grandon is the fifth child in the Grandon family. she has heroldest sister,Anne Marie's mouth, her second oldest sister Bay's hair. But unfortunately, she has her mom's behind. Zoe is friends with everyone.Even boys.Zoe is kind spirited and friendly.Zoe has a crush on herf riend,Tommy. But her almost best friend, C.J,has a crush on him too! Zoe can't decide whether to she should go after Tommy or let C.J have him. But she finally decides that since C.J liked him first,C.J should have Tommy. But does Tommy like Zoe? Or does Tommy likeC.J? What if he doesn't like any of them? <br />I first chose this book when I saw my friend reading it. The cover was a picture of a girl holding a tennis racket in her hand.I read the blurb and I was hooked. But I was confused too. In the blurb,there was this word, hormones.What does it mean?I asked my teacher, Mr.Carbone.I found out that hormones means something in your body that makes you act differently and behave differemtly.I was still puzzled.As I read more, I understood what it meant.I really like this book and I want to read the other books in the series. It's a very good book and I know other people would enjoy it.<br />When Zoe let CJ have Tommy, I was angry.If Iwas Zoe, I would go after Tommy. After all, so what if CJ liked Tommy first? Zoe KNEW Tommy first. Zoe is just too friendly to hurt CJ's feelings. Another book, \\"Kitty in High School\\" is about the same thing. Kitty likes a boy named Skip. Kitty wasn't sure if she should ask Skip to the dance, and when Kitty makes up her mind, Skip is taken by her best friend. So if Zoe doesn't go and try to win Tommy back,she'll never get the chance!<br />My favorite part in this book is the whole book, so there's not much to explain, is there?<br />I would recommend this book to people who are ready to learn about growing up. If you are like zoe and you have a crush on someone, read this book and you might learn something.	2004-04-01
US	33169143	RXFKU0Q34LWT4	0679879269	731430286	The Amber Spyglass (His Dark Materials, Book 3)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	The Amber Spyglass Review By Myles	Have you ever wanted adventure and action put together?  Well if you do, you would read the Amber Spyglass.  This book is connected to two other books: The Golden Compass and The Subtle Knife.  The Amber Spyglass is the third book of His Dark Materials Series.  (...).<br />I enjoyed reading The Amber Spyglass because it has adventure, action and fantasy in it.  This book has two main characters in it: Lyra and Will.  (...)<br />My favorite part is when Lyra meets her old friend Roger who was ghost, Will went to see his dad (...).<br />I can not relate this book because it has its own story unlike any other story.  It has its own two books with stories about how this got started. I would reccomend this book ages 10 and up.  This is also reccomended to 5th graders and up.  The Amber Spyglass is intense and diffucult.  It has hard vocabulary to pronounce, and this book is long and thick and has over 500 pages.  This book is hard for little ones and is a very good book for people who likes fantasy.	2004-03-29
US	33169143	R2EHAZGNY1ZV1T	0698118022	239037375	Sadako and the 1000 Paper Cranes	Books	5	1	1	N	N	jarett lee from p.s.-42	Sadako and the Thousand Paper Cranes was a fantastic book. It was about this girl that gets a very bad virus when a bomb dropped in the past and let out radiation in Hiroshima.This virus goes through your generation if your parents or your grandparents get it. Sadako also learned how to run before she could walk. Sadako has a friend named Chizuko who has been best friends since kindergarden. And they want to stay best friends forever. She also has another friend, Kenji. You'll meet him later. Sadako is also an excited girl because she has good friends and could run in a race. She changes in different ways when she gets radiation. Maybe you should wonder about Sadako getting happy again later. Will Chizuko make Sadako very excited?<br />Sadako and the Thousand Paper Cranes is a book that gets a little boring in the beginning but later it gets more interesting. <br />I think Sadako has good moods. This book doesn't have action but it is a good book, if you are looking for a depressing story. Sadako, I think is a good character beacause she believes in her friends and she is an optimistic kind of person. This girl has a good sense of humor. Sadako also believes in herself. Sadako acts like a really sweet girl [ well a can't wait kind of girl].<br />I suggest this book to 4-5 graders. This book is a little hard to understand because people mght think it is sad but it is also hopeful. [ But I'm not telling how]<br />I don't think favorite parts would happen through this book because it's sorrowful most of the time but Sadako's family still cared about Sadako. And for example in the story the family does not want Sadako to be lonely. Sadako is very loving but too bad she has to get radiation.<br />This book could be different from a lot of books because it has a sad ending and most books don't have that many down hearted[ well most of the books I read]  I sure would like to be with my family if I was in the hospital but hopefully I won't be. <br />Some questions you mighthave is why do you think Sadako was happy when she died or was she sad to miss her parents. If you want to know more, read this story	2004-03-10
US	33169143	R4WIM7TR8BHO	0590208322	393125326	Hiroshima: A Novella	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A review by Chun Wen Huang from P.S.-42	Do you know anything about the atom bomb?  This book has facts about the atom bomb and what happened during that day the United States dropped a bomb in Hiroshima, Japan. Sachi, the main character of this story lost her sister and father. She was really sad about it. That means that the atom bomb is really powerful and affected other people's lives. <br />I really like this book after I was done with it. By the look of this cover, it looks really boring. When you actually open the book, you can't stop reading it. There are some interesting facts in this book such as how much the atom bomb weighs and how many people died when the bomb dropped.<br />Riko, Sachi's sister died from the bomb. Does it hurt to die? Why did the book not explain how it felt to die? Sadako Sasaki, a little girl who also died from this bomb folded 934 paper cranes because if she folded 1000 of them, the gods would make her healthy again. I think this is an interesting idea but there is no such things as magic so it wouldn't work. If you want to learn more about Sadako's life, you should read Sadako and the Thousand Paper Cranes by Eleanor Coerr.<br />Recently, I heard that Suddam Hussein, expresident of Iraq was hiding or coming up with ideas for another atom bomb. What if he drops it in the United States? Is it as powerful as the first one that dropped in Hiroshima?<br />I recommend this book to anyone that reads or likes historical fiction and facts about the atom bomb because this book really has great facts. You should also read other books by Laurence Yep such as The Star Fisher, Child of The Owl, Dragon's Gate and American Dragons. Laurence Yep's drawings are very unique from other illustrators because his drawing look Chinese, like me! Do you want to know more about Sachi's life, well what are you waiting  for? Pick it up!	2004-03-08
US	33169143	R3B2UGXUW0M65T	0394820371	595713080	The Phantom Tollbooth	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A Review by Desmond Ng	\\"So many words and so many people!  They were from every place imaginable and some places even beyond that, and they were all busy sorting, choosing, and stuffing things into cases.\\"<br />That was from a book called The Phantom Tollbooth.  It is about  a boy named Milo and he was always bored.  Until he finds a tollbooth in his house!  Then he wanders into a place where all that the creatures do is lay down! In the story, there were two kingdoms and the two kings were brothers but they each thought that words or numbers were more important.  The kings were mad at each other because one king thought that words were better and the other thought numbers were better than words.  The king's sisters both named Rhyme and Reason thought that numbers and words were both equal, but the kings did not think so, so the sisters got banised to a castle in the air hovering over the demon mountains.  Finally Milo attempts to go and save Rhyme and Reason high in the sky and run from the demons in the mountains so the kings will realize that their sisters are more important than disagreeing with each other.<br />Most of the story is easy to understand but I don't get some parts of the story.  Where is Milo's family?  And how did the spectacular tollbooth appear? And why does Milo have white hair?  I didn't really like the story because the author, Norton Juster, never explains these questions.<br />This is recommened  for people 8-12 years old because some words in the story  are intermediate and some of the storys might get a little boring.The story is easy to get through with the pictures.  All of the pictures help the reader with what happens in the story.  This book is for people who like adventures.<br />I think that this book is funny because of the mathemagician, the king of Digitopolis, because he served Milo subtraction soup. The more you drink,  the hungrier you get.  It was really funny when the Trivium (You will know who is he if you read the book) told the humbug to dig atunnel with only  a needle!  It was really the funniest when Officer Shrift arrested Milo & his friends but when Milo told the officer only a jailer can put you to jail, the officer said he was also a jailer and a judge!  I hate the part about  the \\"Which's story\\" because it took too long.  Most of the story resides in humor and some parts are depressing.  It  was confusing the first time I read it, but I found funny parts that amazed me. I also think that this book has a dull picture in the front but the story is exciting. The part that attracted me was the map in the front pages. It looked so nice that I decided to read this book. Even if the cover looks tiring, you should not ignore it!	2004-02-11
US	33169143	RMW50Y7LL2E2H	0439542502	226637112	Scholastic Book Of World Records 2004	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A  Review by Martin Ma from class 506	Do you  want to know who hit the most home runs back in 1952 to 1976?  Well if you read this book it will tell you.  There is more information included like nature, sports, popular culture, money, technology, and the solar system too. There is a record for the 50 United States Of America. (For example, the state that the has most alligators is Louisiana). Find out more information on the fastest plane, fastest land vehicles, and so much more. <br />I read this book cover to cover [beginning to end] over 10 times or maybe 15 times.  I really prefer this book because all the facts are fascinating to read.  First  I could never keep my eyes of the book because it has many amazing details.  Why do I never put down this book?  Good question.  Because details hold the story together like tape is holding together a broken toy.  I know that in this book there are sections of knowledge.  For example, what if you are doing a trivia contest, this book will give you questions and answers.  <br />The part that I liked the most was that the good examples about the richest man, or the richest woman, or the team that won the most  World Series, or the  world's best selling recording group, or world's best selling album.<br />Well, I recomend this book to 4th through 6th graders because they need  knowledge for their future in school. They might need the Scholastic Book of World Records for a report. Well if you are into studying cool facts this book could be a wonderful and superior read.	2004-02-11
US	33169143	R2WDK8I6E4JQ5L	0140374248	893523493	James and the Giant Peach	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Review by Andy Liu of James and the Giant peach	James Henry Trotter did not have a normal life.  His parents were swallowed by an angry  rhinoceros.  When he goes to live with his aunts for three years,the adventure begins.  This man gives him 1,000 magic little things.  James falls and loses the 1,000 magic things.  A peach starts to grow into a gigantic peach.  Aunt Sponge and Aunt Spiker are getting a lot of money because a lot of people want to see the peach.  So as the giant peach starts rolling, James and his insect friends have a adventure of their life.  I like James Henry Trotter because  he is always coming up with ideas.  I also like him because he is smart and never gets put down.  I don't like Aunt Sponge and Aunt Spiker because they push James around and make him do chores.  My favorite part of the story was when Aunt Sponge and Aunt Spiker got squashed flat by the giant peach because they deserved to be squashed.  My least favorite part of the story was when James had to pick up garbage because Aunt Sponge and Aunt Spikerare counting their money.  I think that Aunt Sponge and Aunt Spiker  are mean because they never do any chores by themselves.  Another part in the story that was funny was when James and his friends got attacked by sharks. It was really funny because the sharks couldn't bite the peach.  This book is like Charlie and the Chocolate Factory because James Henry Trotter and Charlie both have a happy ending.  I like Roald Dahl because he has made many hilarous books. For example, the vicar of Nibbleswick  is hilarious because he has to walk backwards to talk the right way.  Roald Dahl books usually have a happy ending because at the end of the Magic finger, the Greg family stops shooting  things.  I recommend this book to people who like adventure books and people who like happy endings at ages 7& up. This is because the book might be boring for people who like a different more serious type of book.	2004-02-09
US	33169143	RF0IQDX571GC4	0439408318	108427818	Aliens Don't Carve Jack o' Lanterns	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A Review by Andrew (Class 5-506)	Do you like made-up stuff?  If you do, you should read this book.  This book is part of the Bailey School Kids series. It starts when one kid named Eddie was playing Halloween pranks.  Then he sees a weird man.  Howie, Liza, and Melody, Eddie's friends, did not believe him because they know it's a trap.  Is there really a weird man?  If there is, why is he there?<br />I enjoyed reading this book because it has a lot of mysteries and entertaining happenings.  I think if anyone is one of the four kids, I would say they would be afraid, but not the Bailey School Kids.  My favorite character is Eddie because he is a funny boy and without him, there would be no laughter in this book.  The genre of this book is a mystery and it may be a little fantasy too.  My favorite part was when the kids went to every store and found not one piece of candy because it was very amusing and unusual.<br />If you want to find out what happened, you should read this book.  This book is sort of easy to read because the words aren't too complicated.  The pictures show information you can not think of and the pictures slow you down so you know what's happening.  I didn't like the beginning because it didn't pull me in but I think you would start to understand it more at the middle.  There are only a few big vocabulary words so I would recommend this book for beginning chapter readers.  I would relate this book to other Bailey School Kids book because they always have a strange creature.  This book is also good for people who like mystery and adventure, so if you like mystery and adventure, go out and buy this book!	2004-02-05
US	33169143	R3EIMKTBRB6Y13	0140374248	965859354	James and the Giant Peach	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A review of James And The Giant Peach (Alice Z)	During early December, I read a very interesting book named \\"James and the Giant Peach\\" that I would like to recommend. It is about a boy's life from ages 4~8. His parents were nice to him and they lived along the seashore peacefully with lots of other children, but then something terrible happened. During a bright, sunny day, while his parents were going shopping, an angry rhinoceros escaped from the London Zoo and ate them up alive. Poor James was forced to live with his nasty aunts doing all the dirty work while  they were relaxing. One day, James met a stranger who gave him magic crocodile tounges. But Oops! James dropped it near the peach tree and a peach started to grow. While James was picking up garbage near the enormus peach the next night, he spotted a hole in the peach. What was that hole? Read this book to find out.<br />I really enjoyed this book because it is kind of a fantasy and adventure story. It really takes you inside with all the exaggeration. For example, there are really exciting things like  the cloudmen, the sharks, landing on the Empire State Building and living in a pit. I'd like to recommend this book to any fantasy or adventure lover.<br />My favorite part was when Aunt Spiker & Aunt Sponge got flattened like pancakes when the paech rolled on them because they were so mean to James and so this is like a lesson to them and poor James' revenge. My least favorite part was when James had to help centipede take off all 42 shoes tied in really tangled knots for 2 hours until he could sleep. <P.....After you have read the book \\"James and The Giant Peach\\"  I would recommend you to read some of the other books Roald Dahl wrote. What I like about Roald's Dahl books is that he writes about children saving the day or being the best in an adventure that is realistic. For example, in \\"Charlie and The Chocolate Factory\\", Charlie was the only one not to fool around during the tour.<BR>  <BR>How did the peach grow so big? How did James and the creaturesmake friends and communicate? How did the peach roll over the nasty aunts and not die? What was it like to live inside a peach? Read this fabulous story and find out.	2004-02-05
US	33169143	R1XDR83CLKJN7G	0590139169	831564563	Dunston Checks in: Novelisation (TV & film tie-ins)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A review on Dunston Checks In (JL)	Who is Dunston?  Dunston is an orangutan.  Dunston has to help Lord Rutledge (he is Dunston's owner) steal expensive things such as a Jewelry.  He has to steal things that are gold and silver.  After he steals things that are gold and silver he always gets yelled at or hit.  One night Lord Rutledge tells Dunston to steal lots of things from a hotel guest.  Dunston goes to her room after Lord Rutledge gives him a signal by waving a red flag.  Dunston then steals anything that is gold and silver such as a doorknob.  When Lord Rutledge sees the doorknob he heaves it at Dunston because it is not expensive.  Dunston jumps out of the way and punches Lord Rutledge in the face.  Will Dunston ever get his freedom?<br />I enjoyed reading this book . I enjoyed reading it because it was really exciting and it gets me hooked into it.  It makes me laugh so hard that my tears come out. Do you like to jump around?  Well this orangutan does.  My favorie part of this book is when Kyle (a boy who lives in the hotel with his brother and his dad, who is the boss of the hotel) knocks on a chest and the chest knocks back.  I bet you know who knock back?<br />I recommend this book to third graders to sixth graders because they know when to laugh and when not to.  Little kids may think the cover is funny and not the book.  This book is similar to another book called  Monkey Trouble which is about a girl and a monkey. If you like funny and easy to read books, try this book out.	2004-02-04
US	33169143	R1D9PPVZMM7VDB	0064410129	271695429	The Carnivorous Carnival (A Series of Unfortunate Events # 9)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A Lemony Snicket Fan's Review (AG)	I am a fifth grader that picked up this book at independent reading.  It is part of the Series of Unfortunate Events by Lemony Snicket.  I am sure you either heard of the book or the author.  This book is mostly about 3 Baudelaire children who are unfortunately unlucky.  They lost their parents in Book 1 (The Bad Beginning) and they kept getting new guardians who either died or abandoned them.  Also I warn you not to read this book because it is cruel and strict and will make you bloodthirsty!  It contains killing, freaks, traitors, a crazy crowd, and more.  If this sounds scary, back off and read another book.  Will the Baudelaires finally become lucky after 8 books of bad luck?<br />I would give it 4 stars because the series and this book are no different.  This is how it always goes.  An evil man called Count Olaf tries to get the Baudelaire orphans.  Sometimes he suceeds and sometimes he fails. Then the Baudelaires get free.  Sounds boring right?  But Lemony Snicket always keeps you guessing who Count Olaf and his assistants are. The Unfortunate Events books sometimes make me guess what is going to happen next.  In this book a fortune-teller is working with both Count Olaf & the Baudelaires.  I admire these books but they're really depressing!<br />I do not recommend this for people who read books that have a happy ending, happy middle, and happy beginning and ends with a sweet happily ever after ending.  This is a book that is very strict.  I warn you not to read it.  If you want to read it, you better be one of those sad or angry people.  Because once you read this book, you are going to go mad, angry, crazy, and you are going to cry like crazy.  So be prepared if you are going to read this book or any other book in the Unfortunate Events Series!  This book is good for fourth, fifth, and sixth graders, maybe even third graders.  I recommend this for people who like unfortunate things.  Some other books in the Unfortunate Events Series are The Bad Beginning, The Reptile Room,The Wide Window, and the Misreable Mill.  The Carnivorous Carnival is really carnivorous!  Start your engines for READING!!!	2004-02-03
US	33169143	R117BA6VHRA811	0439474299	110882952	Children of the Red King #1: Midnight for Charlie Bone	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Charlie Bone Fan's Review (L.L)	Midnight for Charlie Bone was a great book that tells the story of Charlie's miserable life. Charlie is being forced into a school where people try to kill him. Manfred,one of the endowed children, uses his mystical powers and hypnotizes a girl called Emma Tolly, because she's endowed too. Manfred wants the girl to go to his family's school (Bloor's Academy), but she refused,and she was hypnotized.  In order to free her, her father invented the inventor's case that could free Emma from her hypnotism, but to open it you need a key. Dr.Tolly dies and gives the key to Emma's aunt who gives Charlie the key. Manfred doesn't want Emma to be free so he tries to kill Charlie to get the key. One night Charlie gets lost in an old maze. But...he's not alone. Something was looking for Charlie. Will they meet? And most important, will Charlie survive?<br />I like reading Midnight for Charlie Bone for many reasons. One reason is because this book is full of adventures. Another reason is Charlie. He is kind, curious, and he is always doing things that he is not supposed to do (to find out more about Emma), but he never gets caught.<br />I think this book is like Harry Potter, but even better. Both books are about a boy with magic powers, but Midnight for Charlie Bone is not as difficult in vocabulary.<br />My favorite part is when Charlie fights one of Manfred's servants in his beast form. My least favorite part was when Billy Raven, another endowed child, betrays Charlie, because I never predicted that this would happen. Because of a deal Mr.Bloor, the principal of the Academy, made, Billy betrays Charlie and told all about his secrets.<br />I would recommend this book to Harry Potter fans, because the series is very, very similar. The genre of this book is fantasy. If  you like fantasy, check it out.	2004-02-03
US	33169143	R3RXJQZ97YI3OP	0439465532	505692865	Ripley's Special Edition 2004 (Ripley's Believe It Or Not)	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Review By X S C	I am a fifth grader from P.S. 42.  Many people in our class have read Ripley's Believe It or Not Special Edition 2004.  Some say this book is very cool and some say it is not.  Well, I say its very interesting because of the pictures and the descriptions.  Believe It or Not Special Edition 2004 tells the weird facts that all people are interested in reading.  Someone fell 20-stories from Liberty Bank Building in Buffalo, New York and he survived!  Most people would be flat from a 20-story fall but this guy didn't.  Even people survived in extreme cold by burning their money!  I think most boys in my class wanted to read it because of the pictures or because it's a new book.  Is there somebody with a magnetic body?  Or is there a reptile man?  You'll know when you read \\"Ripley's Believe It or Not Special Edition 2004!\\"  You'll be amazed by the stories they tell you!!<br />I really enjoyed this book for a few reasons.  This book tells the truth.  Most people always hide their ugly side.  But in this book, a person with three legs tell other people he has three legs.  Isn't he embarrassed?  Well, maybe he is embarrassed.  Probably not.<br />I think children below 6 shouldn't read this ( 7 and above could).  When children under 6 read this book, they might get nightmares about the disgusting pictures in the book.  If they really wanted to read this book, they could but if they read it and get nightmares, it's their fault.<br />In this book, there are too many facts so I'll just ask a few question: Did the man with a metal pole in his chest live after the pole went in?  How about the dolphin who spoke?  How did the camper know he had a snake in his body?<br />People in our class, mostly girls think that some of the pictures are disgusting.  On page 29 of the book, there are skulls.  Skulls are disgusting to look at.  Also when you look at the skulls, it looks like its smiling at you.  Anyway, I really liked this book and it should be for children who are disgusting.  I have one of the Ripley's Believe It or Not books and their facts are really cool for boys.  So go to a book store and see if you can get your hands on this fabulous book!  But if you don't like this book, you could go to Amazon.com and tell them your opinion about the book.	2004-01-20
US	33169143	R2CTR6KE20PH2A	0064400557	121564266	Charlotte's Web (Trophy Newbery)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	My Book Review Of Charlotte's Web	\\"Where is Papa going with that ax?\\" said Fern to her mother as they were setting the table for breakfast. This story is about a girl who really loves her little animal. At first, Fern's little animal was always teased by other farm animals. Will the little animal still be teased by anybody? The little animal is a pig named Wilbur. He was a little pig who has no mother. Nobody but Fern takes care of him. Wilbur is very unfamous until.........<br />I enjoy reading Charlotte's Web for a number of reasons. First is that the book is a very wonderful book for children ages seven and up. Also it is a great book that explains why the animal is sad or not. I think it'll be a great book for children to read. E.B. White also makes the animals talk in real life. This book tells why Wilbur is unhappy. I can't relate this book to any other books because the other books don't tell why that person or animal is sad. But this book does.<br />My favorite part of the book is when Wilbur got a prize. I was also glad when Wilbur got a friend. (A \\"best \\" friend.) I like Wilbur's friend because she had always helped Wilbur with his problems. My other favorite part is when Wilbur was a baby because he looked so cute. One part I dislike is  when Wilbur's best friend had died. That part was so sad. I thought that Wilburs friend (best) will not die but to my surprise, the friend did! I was so unhappy. If you're a fan of animal books, read this book!<br />I had really sad feelings because nobody should die in this story, but it did. I should recommend this book for kids in second grade and up. You should also read E.B.White's other books such as Stuart Little and The Trumpet Of The Swan. They're great! Check  it out!	2004-01-20
US	33169143	R3TW9AD4Y9M8ZC	0553157590	324363702	Runaway Hamster (Sweet Valley Kids #2)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Review by Rowena Wu	Jessica Wakefeild lives in Sweet Valley with her twin sister, Elizabeth. They also have a brother named Steven. Sometimes their best friend can't tell them apart. Only their name bracelets can. Jessica didn't like the class pet, but her twin sister does. The class pet was a hamster called Tinkerbell. Jessica was scared of Tinkerbell because it might bite her. Before each weekend, their teacher came in the classroom, took out a box full of names and pull out a name to see who would take care of it. Jessica wishes she won't have to take Tinkerbell home, but Elizabeth wishes she will. Jessica was the chosen one. The next week and weekend Jessica got to keep it. But in the middle of the vacation Jessica lost Tinkerbell when she was feeding her. (Their brother called Jessica and she forgot to close the cage tight.) Then Tinkerbell ran out. What do you think will happen next? <br />I would recommend Run-Away Hamster to 2nd graders or higher. It wouldn't be good for boys beacause I think Sweet Valley kids mostly talks about girls issues. This book reminds me of a boy in my class who brought in a hamster to the class.  He wasn't suppose to bring it in but he did. In the end of the day he returned it home. I think the moral of this story is to try to have confidence in yourself, and just try new things sometimes. If it still feels bad, you don't have to do that anymore.	2003-04-03
US	33169143	R1QO76FFMR5CCN	188188922X	10531263	East Side Story (Stories of the States)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Review by Fredy T., Ines S., and Jason R. (Class 5-506)	We three fifth graders read a book called East Side Story, written by Bonnie Bader.  This story is about an 11 year old   girl who is named Rachel Boganovich.  Rachel Boganovich was a Russian immigrant who came to New York in 1912.  Rachel liked to read books but Rachel's father said she didn't need anymore education.  Rachel used to go to school and really liked it.  But                                                                                                     Rachel didn't just stay home.  Rachel had to work in a Triangle Shirt Waist Factory.  The supervisors were very strict and harsh. Rachel never liked the factory. \\"WHY\\"?.  Because the place was alway's hot, filthy, dark, and in bad conditions.  Wonder if by this paragraph, we thought this book was boring?<br />Well, we all looked at the cover of the book and thought it would be very boring.  But when we finished the book, we found it very entertaining.  I found this book very entertaning because I never thought the Lower East Side would be so crowded. (I.S)  My opinion about this book is that it is interesting like when Rachel hid in the box so the inspectors couldn't see her in the factory. I also like the protest. (F.T)  My opinion about this book is that when Rachel got into fights, to me that was very interesting. (J.R) Another reason we liked this story is because we all live around the Lower East Side.<br />We recommend this book to people who like to read about history and like to read about something that is related to a biogrphy. We think the author feels serious and emotional about writing this book. This book looks difficult to write. We feel bad for Rachel having to work in a factory aged so young. Hey, do you think Rachel's dream will come ture???	2003-03-27
US	33169143	R11KBFNF1YFMYP	0064402282	772236677	Shoeshine Girl (Rise and Shine)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	A review by 4 Fifth Graders in Class 5-506	This book (Shoeshine Girl by Clyde Robert Bulla) is about a  girl named Sarah Ida that moved to Palmville to vist her Aunt Claudia.  Sarah's parents sent her to Palmville because her parents could not take care of her over the summer. While she was on the train Sarah Ida  wanted to start her life all over because her life was miserable. Sarah asked Aunt Claudia for money, but her mother said \\"No\\" because Sarah needed to learn the value of money! Sarah found a job. It was at a shoeshine store. Do you think Sarah learned a lesson in the ShoeShine Stand? So that's why  the title is called the ShoeShine Girl. Do you think Sarah learned the  value of money? What do you think Sarah spent her first  day's pay on and why? How do you think Sarah feels working in the ShoeShine Stand?  <br />We like this book because we can relate to Sarah at the begining of the book. One time one of us was on the train going to school, and we didn't feel like getting off. Similar to Sarah she didn't want to get off on the train because she wanted to change her life all over again.<br />Our  opinion for this book is really good because every chapter tells you  something new. For example in chapter 4 it was very suspenseful. We were thinking that she was going to steal the money and spend it.  Maybe she would get caught and would have to look for another job instead of working at the ShoeSineStand. <br />So now you know about this girl named \\"Sarah Ida\\" who works at the ShoeSine Stand.  We would like to recommend this book to people that like reading realistic fiction books!	2003-03-21
US	33169143	R3QMUS228195FS	0064402282	772236677	Shoeshine Girl (Rise and Shine)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	This is a review from 4 kids in 5th Grade (JL, WC, GC, AM)	The book is called Shoeshine Girl by Clycle Robert Bulla.  This book started with a girl named Sarah Ida who was told to get on a train to Palmville but she didn't want to.  She had no choice but to go.  She planned on staying and did she get off?  Well....read the book and find out.  They got the title of the story when Sarah went to find a job and found one in a shoeshine stand and one day Al, her boss,  went to buy some shoe polish.  Do you know what happened afterwards?  Al got hit by a car and was sent to the hospital.  Sarah Ida kept the shoeshine stand open and polished people's shoes all by herself.  Do you think it's good so far?  Do you also think that Sarah Ida is a responsible person for taking care of the store?  <br />    We learn that if you want money, you need to earn money yourself.  We like this book because it talks about character's feelings.  For example, Sarah felt hurt when Sarah wanted money and Aunt Claudia didn't give her money because she said \\"Your mom told me not to give you any.\\"  We disliked the part when Al got hurt. We like this book because it was good and because it was talking about her life.  Her life changed a lot throughout the story.  She use to be with people that are so awful.  It was awful because she had friends that would take things.  What we think that changed her life was being with Al and her aunt because they taught her how to cook, the value of money, and how to polish a shoe.<br />  We think that this book would be good for people who want to find a job.  We also recommend this book to fourth and fifth graders.	2003-03-18
US	33169143	R21IWME7CDPJ0S	0606095039	321264122	Dana's Best Friend (Junior Gymnasts)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Review by Si Yun Zou, 5-506	\\"Dana's Best Friend\\" is a very nice book about friendship.  The book made me feel that I was watching a movie about the book.  The book made me remember when I was younger.  I was planning to go to my friend's house for a party, but then I couldn't go and I was so upset.  In this book, Becky a girl named Dana wants to go to her friend Becky's birthday party, but she also wants to go to Lila's last day at the gym.  Lila is a person that helped the children if they need help witht their gymnastics.<br />I like this book because it is very interesting when Dana doesn't know which party she wants to go to.  Why did the birthday party and Lila's party have to be on the same day?  I would recommend this book to my friend.  It would be good for her because she likes books that are amusing like this one.  The author wants to entertain us.  The lesson of \\"Dana's Best Friend\\" is that sometimes, it can be hard to choose and sometimes things ca go wrong.  My favorite part is when Dana has to chose one party to go to.  It was very amusing when I was up to that part.  I also liked when the camera person told Dana to do the flip so she could be on TV.  I like this part because I feel glad for Dana since it was her wish to be on TV.  I think Dana really wanted to go to both parties.<br />I disliked the part when Becky was yelling at Dana because I felt sad for her.  I wondered, would they be friends again?  I would want them to be friends again forever.  What will happen next year on the other birthday?  \\"Dana's Best Friend\\" is a realistic fiction because it could really happen to someone.  If you want to find out what happens, then read \\"Dana's Best Friend.\\"	2003-03-14
US	33169143	R10WI12UJMZSQN	0590846280	451316620	The Adventures of Captain Underpants	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Review by Richard Li, 5-506	The characters in this story are George, Harold, Mr. Krupp, and Captain Underpants.  George and Harold bought a hypno ring because they wanted to control Mr. Krupp and make him give back a video tape of them doing evil stuff.  The hypno ring can hypnotize that person and control them.  So they asked Mr. Krupp to give back the video tape.  Then George and Harold wanted to play with Mr. Krupp so they made him act like a monkey.  Then George made him think he was Captain Underpants!  He jumped out of the window and said \\"I'm going to fight crime!\\"<br />Then Captain Underpants met these bad guys.  The bad guys were two robots and a diaper person.  A diaper person wears a diaper and he is a baby.  They were stealing a diamond that can control the whole world.  George and Harold followed where Captain Underpants went.  The bad guys took Captain Underpants and put the big diamond into the world destroyer 2000.  Will Captain Underpants and the world be saved?<br />The characters in this story are entertaining.  George and Harold are funny people but Mr. Krupp is very serious and hates George and Harold and their comics.  Mr. Krupp is the opposite of Captain Underpants.  You see, Mr. Krupp doesn't listen to George and Harold.  But Captain Underpants does listen to the two troublemakers.  George and Harold are the funniest students in their whole elementary school.  There in that school, where the teacher don't allow them to use imagination in the whole entire school.  The diaper guy is funny too, but he's a bad guy.<br />This book is good for second graders to third graders because this book is easy to read.  There are more of these books coming out.  This book is good for ages 8 through 9 because usually when you're in 2nd grade to 3rd grade, you are in that age.  This book is kinda funny.  There are even funny comics for you.  Best of all, you have fliporama.  It is like you have a page and you flip the page and the picture moves.	2003-03-14
US	33169143	R3ACIC31213JMQ	0590859986	381178749	Katie's Big Move (Junior Gymnasts)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Review by Michelle Liu, Class 5-506	I have enjoyed this book because it teaches everyone to work harder. Katie is a girl in Jody's gymnastics class. One day, Coach Jody announces that her class is going on the balance beam. Her friends are very, very excited, but Katie is scared. Katie hates to do anything backwards (She reminds me of my friend who hates swimming). I did not like it when Katie wasn't working too hard, but I felt happy for her when she wanted to try the backover move.<br />Sometimes, Katie thinks about quitting gymnastics, but her friends always try to help her get better and better. My favorite part is when Katie has enough courage to try the beam. Lila Hanks, an older gymnast, also helps Katie practice because she is excellent at gymnastics. Katie tells Lila about what happened and why she wants to quit gymnastics. After that, Lila tells Katie a secret...???<br />Sometimes, I wonder why Katie would want to quit since gymnastics seems so fun to do. I think Katie is a very smart character and could do the backflip, but she's just terrified. If she's not scared or nervous, then I know she'll make it. Katie is my favorite third-grader and gymnast of all of the Junior Gymnast series books. After reading this book, I feel like I have a lot more courage to do everything and anything (and not feel scared). I feel braver, not frightened. This book gave me this feeling that everything will turn out great. All you need is just some courage. Plenty of it!!<br />This is a great book for girls with dreams. Will Katie ever learn how to get over her fear of backward flips or will she have to quit? Read the book and find out!	2003-03-02
US	33169143	R19I52CN5FXQQR	9993161683	202827801	The Slump (The Hit and Run Gang, No 3)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	A Review by Bill Montilla, Class 5-506	I read this book called 'The Slump' by Steven Kroll.  I picked this book because I like to read books about baseball.  I like playing baseball and I wanted to read a book about baseball.<br />This book reminds me of when I was on a baseball team and I always came in late just like Luke in the book.  He always comes late and always strikes out.  At the beginning, baseball was fun, but then the coach started to scream at Luke.<br />One time, there was a game and I struck out.  Then I thought &quot;why do I always strike out and why is everyone angry?&quot;  The next day, I came early to practice and I did not strike out.  The next day I was playing better than before and everyone was glad for me.<br />Luke is my favorite character because he reminds me of myself when i used to be so unfavorable at baseball.  My favorite part of the book is when Luke gets mad and he has to come in early to start practicing.  This is my favorite part because I feel good for Luke and I know he is going to be an outstanding player.<br />I would recommend this book to people who enjoy baseball.  You should read this book to find out if Luke becomes a remarkable baseball player.  I wonder why Luke wants to be a baseball player?  The lesson this book taught me was that if you practice you may improve at baseball.	2003-02-28
US	33169143	R3T6L54A48RMXB	0380709120	552334396	Henry Huggins	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A Review by Jin Huang, Class 5-506	In November, I read a book that was comical.  Henry Huggins is a boy that had no excitement in his life until he found a dog on the streets.  He was buying an ice cream cone and he met a dog.  Then, he wanted to bring him home.  He got on the bus home, but the dog ruined everything.  Henry got kicked out of the bus five times.  Then the police came, and Henry got so scared for he thought the policemen would take him away.  Instead, the policemen just took him home.  Henry named the dog Ribsy \\"because you could even see his ribs.\\"  The most important part was when Henry entered a dog show because he wanted to win something.  Ribsy slid in the mud, so Henry used talcum powder on Ribsy.  Henry didn't know it was pink and the judges said \\"that is a weird dog.\\"  Would Ribsy win anything?  Or would he lose?  A few months later, a boy came and claimed that Ribsy was his dog.  Then they had a competition.  Who would Ribsy choose?<br />I hated the part when a boy came because Henry and Ribsy wee having a happy life, but the boy came to ruin it.  How come Ribsy was on the streets?  If I was Henry I would say \\"go home\\" and if he didn't I'll beat him up.  Who will Ribsy choose?  Who will he want to go with when the competition starts?<br />I think this book is good for a kid who found a dog without a collar that belonged to someone else because you could see what this boy went through.	2003-02-28
US	33169143	R3GOSZM2HBLFH3	059035342X	667539744	Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A Review by Yong Cong Guan, Class 5-506	As a fifth grader, I picked a book called Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone.  I picked this book because I wanted to compare the book to the movie.  This book is mostly about Harry, Ron, and Hermionie trying to stop Snape, a Hogwarts teacher, from stealing the sorcerer's stone (which gives you never-ending life). One night Harry, Ron, and Hermionie went up to the third floor and saw a three-headed dog guarding the sorcerer's stone.  They believed Snape was trying to get past the dog with Quirrell's help (a Hogwarts teacher, too) but is Snape really trying to steal the stone? Or is somebody else trying to steal it? Find out in the book called Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone.<br />I enjoyed reading this book about Harry Potter.  I enjoyed reading this book because I like adventure and excitement and this whole book is full of adventure and excitement!!  My favorite part was when Harry defeated Voldemort. It was my favorite part because Voldemort was evil and tried to trick Harry into giving the stone to him.  But Harry knew that when Voldemort  got the stone, he would get his own body and have never-ending life.  Harry refused to give the stone to him.  Then Harry got knocked down and choked by Quirrel (who was really Voldemort).  Harry touched Quirrel on the hand and his hand magically turned to stone and fell into tiny pieces.  Harry did the same all the way util Quirrel's whole body turned into stone because he wanted Voldemort to die with Quirrel's body.  But Voldemort didn't die!  If you want to find out why he didn't die, read the book by J.K. Rowling.<br />This book is better for sixth, seventh, and eighth graders because sometimes I got stuck on two or three difficult words in the book (so then I had to look them up in the dictionary to find the meaning). I think it is better for them (than fifth graders) because maybe they will understand the story better than I did. I think it is a good choice for middle school and high school students becuase if middleschoolers can't understand the book than, maybe, highschoolers could figure out the words, what the book is all about, and the most important parts in the story (and not just the little details).if middleschoolers can't understand the book than, maybe, highschoolers could figure out the words, what the book is all about, and the most important parts in the story (and not just the little details).	2003-02-27
US	33169143	R1EFRJ8JB7JWDA	0380731487	889611282	Sideways Stories from Wayside School	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Review by Hana Ma, Class 5-506	Over the summer, I read a book called Sideway Stories from Wayside School by Louis Sachar. This book talks about very silly characters. There was one story that I liked the most, which I will tell you about first. (By the way, the yard teacher was the one who wrote the book.) Okay! back to the story. Jason was in class listening when he heard a bubble pop. He spun around and there was his enemy, Joy, chewing bubble gum. He told his teacher Mrs. Jewls. Mrs. Jewls was disappointed at Joy, so she was going to write her name under the word DISCIPLINE!! Jason stopped her and asked if he could write it on the board. So when Jason got out of his seat, Joy stuck the bubble gum on his chair. Jason sat back down, but when it was recess time, he tried to get up. But he couldn't! He was stuck! Mrs. Jewls tried everything she could to get him off, but nothing worked. Do you know how he came off? Finally, Joy had to kiss him on the nose. Jason fell and bumped his head. <BR>   <BR>This story reminded me of a time when my leg was stuck on the monkey bars. I was hanging upside down. Then I saw my friend. When I tried to get down, I found that my leg was stuck. I stayed there for a while, but then I got a idea. I calmly twisted my leg to one side and it was loose. I was free again!!<BR>    <BR>I would recommend this book to whoever likes to read about different characters or likes entertaining stories and enjoys laughing. This book is also recommended to third graders and up! So this is my review about the book Sideway Stories from Wayside School.	2003-02-27
US	33169143	RYQUKVDJSXZSJ	0380731487	889611282	Sideways Stories from Wayside School	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A Book Review by Carol Li, Class 5-506	This story is about all the students in Wayside School. On the first day of school, Ms. Gorf (their teacher) said she would turn people into apples if they didn't behave. Then a girl named Mary got a mirror and when the teacher said the spell to turn people into apples, Mary took out the mirror as quick as she could and made the words reflect back to Ms. Gorf...so she got turned into an apple herself!! When it was Halloween, she came back. A guy named Gray said \\"You give people things like candy. You are nice.\\" But then she disappeared into the blackboard. She was gone and was never seen again. If you want to find more information about other kids in Wayside School, you should read it. <BR> <br />This is a great book because it includes many different chapters about other children. My favorite part was when Ms. Gorf got turned into an apple--that was the funniest part I read in the book. But when a girl named Mary reflected the spell, why didn't Ms. Gorf just get out of the way? She just stood there and got turned into an apple herself.<br />I would recommend this book to young and old people. I would also recommend this book to people like my brother because he likes to read funny books about other children. I would give this book 4 stars because it is a good book about strange people. This is a cool and interesting book by Louis Sarchar because I like to read about other people. There are more books by Louis Sachar that you might enjoy such as Wayside School is Falling Down, Wayside School Stories, The Boy who Lost His Face, Dogs Don't Tell Jokes, There's a Boy In the Girl's Bathroom, and Wayside School Gets a Little Stranger. I read all these books exept Wayside School Gets a Little Stranger. Some of the books are great but some were a \\"little strange.\\" These books make me laugh when I read them. These books were so good that I wanted to read more books by Louis Sachar and about Wayside School!!<br />I feel excited about this book because it has funny things about the students. Why would Ms. Gorf turn people into apples? I think this event happened because Sachar wanted to make us laugh. I think the author wrote this book just to make us laugh. I hope you read this book by Louis Sachar because it is great.	2003-02-26
US	33169143	R2W139JH6F6R8X	1564028593	730026917	The Private Notebook of Katie Roberts, Age 11	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A Review By Imani Johnson,  Class 5-506	I read a book called 'The Private Notebook Of Katie Roberts, Age 11'.  Katie has a hard life when her father dies. The Private Notebook Of Katie Roberts was written by Sonja Lamut.  This book is about when Katie moves to Texas.  When she arrives and stays, she says that her mother starts to get used to life there and even wears a jumper.  But back in New York, she used to only wear very elegant dresses.<br />I feel like this book is intersting because it tells about many things that happen in real life.  One of my least favorite parts was when she moved to Texas.  I did not like it because she had to move away from her friends.  One of my favorite parts was when  she had made a new best friend.  That's because you always need a friend around so you won't be lonely.<br />My opinion about this book is that every body can read this book.  Well, actually I think this book would be more for girls because it's about a girl's lifestyle.  Even though boys go through life to, it sounds like a book more for girls.  This book is realistic fiction.  I wonder if Katie ever learned to like Sam (her step father). The lesson of the story is not to be selfish or get into a fight or you won't have any friends.<br />I still would like to know when her brothers started to go to school and also, if Sam ever got to adopt her. This book is recommended to a lot of people (especially girls!) who go through changes like katie did. I liked the ending, but you'll have to read it to find out...	2003-02-26
US	33169143	REY5GIVOQV786	059044350X	825314073	Louis Braille: The Boy Who Invented Books for the Blind (Scholastic Biography)	Books	5	36	39	N	N	A Review by 3 Fifth Graders (BA, ZZ, YCG)	We 3 Fifth Graders, read a book about Louis Braille, by Margaret Davidson. This book is about a boy named Louis Braille. He was the boy who invented books for the blind. Louis lived in Coupvray,in France. He is blind. He became blind by playing with his father's  awl. The awl slid right into Louis' eye and it got injured and it got infected. One day, a new priest came to a church on the hillside. The priest was named Father Jacques Palluy. Father Palluy knew that Louis was blind so, he sent Louis to a new school for blind children in Paris. He liked every school subjects there.One day, a Captain called Charles Barbier came to Louis' school. Captain Barbier taught Louis about nightwriting. Nightwriting are raised dots that stands for sounds. Louis invented his own alphabet dots and he spread the news by making books. When Louis died, everyone started to call his dots Braille. Will Louis' popularty ever be extraordinary? Why did some people dislike his invention at first? Will the Braille be used forever? <br />Our opinion about this book is that this is an outstanding book because Louis made up a way for blind people to read. Why would Louis want to make books for blind people? We gave this book 5 star because we think it is a fantastic book. This book can teach blind people how to read and write. People that are not blind can also learn Braille.The back of the book also has braille dots so, we can practice. We even learned how to spell our names in Braille. We think that Louis' idea was excellent.<br />We should recommend this book to 4,5,and 6 graders because it teaches a lesson about not playing with sharp tools, and it also teaches you how to read the Braille alphabet. Another lesson we learned is that if you want to get something done you have to do it yourself. If you want to learn more about Louis Braille, try reading: Louis Braille: the Boy who Invented Books for the Blind.	2003-01-23
US	33169143	R1DT43MME2T804	0064403661	30205972	The Year of the Panda	Books	4	10	10	N	N	A review by 6 Fifth-Graders (TDL, SYZ, KL, RL, JH, BL)	We are six fifth graders that read a book called The Year of the Panda by Miriam Schlein. This book is mostly about a boy named Lu Yi and his panda.  One day, the Chinese goverment sent two men to tell Lu Yi's parents to move, so it can use their lands to save the pandas. But  Lu Yi's parents said \\"no\\". Later, Lu Yi and his father went to to the mountain to chop wood. Then they found a baby panda, brought him home, and gave it milk. Lu Yi named the panda, Su Lin. Then messengers came and said \\"Whoever finds a panda must bring it to the Rescue Center and you will get 300 yuan.\\"  Lu Yi didn't talk about the panda because he didn't want anyone to find out about Su Lin, but his father wants the reward of 300 yuan. So Lu Yi's father tells the messengers about Su Lin.  The Chinese goverment were planning to drop food for the pandas because their bamboo was dying out.  The Chinese goverment ask the villagers if it could use their lands for the Chinese government's plan.  What would happen if the bamboo died out forever? Would Su Lin die if the bamboo dried out forever?  Would the panda become extinct?<BR> <BR>This story is very nice because we learned new information about pandas. For example, we learned that there are a lot of different colored bamboo. Also, pandas in Chinese are called daxiong mao. We enjoyed this book because it taught us a lesson. The lesson we learned is to take care of the endangered animals before they become extinct. We liked this book because the Chinese government cared about the animals. Some of us think Lu Yi did the right thing to keep Su Lin because he could save the panda for now. But some of us think Lu Yi did the wrong thing because it might have been dangerous to give the panda other milk. It might have killed Su Lin. We think Lu Yi is taking good care of the panda. We liked the part when Su Lin urinated on the bed because it was very humorous. We didn't like the part when Lu Yi had to give the panda to the Rescue Center because we felt sad that they would never see each other again. <br />We recommend this book to all ages of people but especially those interested in science. We think this book would be an appropniate book for people who enjoy pandas.	2003-01-21
US	33169143	R315O81XLAUB09	0060004835	583213427	Loser	Books	4	35	38	N	N	One teacher's review of Loser	As a fifth grade teacher, I picked up Jerry Spinelli's Loser to preview whether it would make an appropriate read aloud selection for my students. Loser tells the story of Donald Zinkoff's childhood. At first, Donald appears to be an average elementary school kid, but as he grows older, his classmates begin to view him differently. Before, Donald was silly and clumsy, but in fourth grade, suddenly he is seen as weird and strange. An important turning point in the story happens when Zinkoff's poor coordination causes his fourth grade classmates to lose an athletic contest. By the end of the day, Donald has a new name-\\"Loser.\\" Spinelli spends the rest of the book discussing Zinkoff's move to middle school and hinting that somehow, Zinkoff will change from \\"zero\\" to \\"hero.\\" When a neighborhood girl is missing, Zinkoff sees his chance to become popular. When she is finally found, will Donald Zinkoff still be a \\"Loser?\\"<br />I enjoyed reading Loser for a number of reasons. First, the plot of Loser is a simple one that I think every human-young and old-can relate to. Everyone's been teased one time or another. I think it would be an interesting experience for all readers to see how one character deals with being teased. Zinkoff is such a complicated character because he doesn't even realize that others see him as a loser. Most people would feel hurt and embarrassed (maybe even angry) if they were in Donald's shoes, but not Zinkoff. <br />Because he is so oblivious to his classmate's taunts, I started to believe that there was more to Zinkoff than Jerry Spinelli was saying. Is Zinkoff just clumsy and weird or does he suffer from real learning and behavioral disabilities? I kept hoping Spinelli would explain more about Donald and his condition. My class and I just finished Joey Pigza Swallowed the Key by Jack Gantos, which is about the life of a young boy with ADHD. I think that book was better for younger readers because it explained WHY some kids behave as they do. In Loser, we never actually learn why Zinkoff acts like such a \\"loser.\\" <br />My favorite part of the book happens late in the story when Zinkoff tries to rescue a missing girl. I predicted that he would find her, return her to her thankful family, and become the most popular boy in middle school. I was excited to see that Loser doesn't have a happily-ever-after ending. If you are a fan of realistic fiction books for children, Loser would be a great choice.<br />Still, I have mixed feelings whether I would share this book with my class. The writing is mostly simple sentences, but there is more complicated language that I think they would appreciate better when they are a few years older. I would recommend this book for middle school students through adults because they can all relate to the story and they'd be able to answer many of the questions that come up in Loser. Whether or not I decide to use Loser, I still think all elementary school students should be exposed to Jerry Spinelli (Maniac Magee, Wringer, Fourth Grade Rats, The Library Card) because he writes about real childhood situations and problems. Most children's books do not do this, but Loser does. Jerry Spinelli's Loser is definitely not a \\"loser.\\" Check it out!	2003-01-01
