US	33235215	R342UY90VSSAW4	0873779827	990780706	The Life and Campaigns of Lieut.-Gen. Thomas J. Jackson: (Stonewall Jackson)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A Soldier in the Army of God	Summary <br /> <br />            One of the difficulties in reviewing a biography is resisting the temptation to write a summary of a summary.  This is made more difficult when the author has no specific purpose in writing the biography.  Robert Lewis Dabney, however, wrote with a clear goal in mind-to vindicate the cause for which his hero, Lt. General Thomas J. \\"Stonewall\\" Jackson, fought.  Dabney's motives were two-fold:  to use Jackson's Christian character as an example of hope and perseverance to Jackson's defeated countrymen (vi., all citations and summarizations will be cited by page numbers within parentheses).  Secondly, Dabney sought to vindicate the cause for which the South fought-the doctrine of state's rights as Dabney interpreted it.  Dabney attempted, not so much to narrate Stonewall Jackson's life, but to give reasons for why Jackson faced each situation, during war-time and peace-time, and the influences that drove Jackson. <br /> <br />Review <br /> <br />            Stonewall Jackson's life is described by hardship, courage, and fidelity.  Jackson was born on 21 January, 1824 in Clarksburg, VA.  Within the first six years of his life Jackson's sister and mother die, forcing him to live with relatives.  Although he experienced hardship with his relatives, at the same time he began to cultivate diligence and devotion to family and country; it was at West Point that the diligence would come to full fruition.  Jackson was by no means intellectually prepared to study at West Point.  This was evident by his finishing his first year ranked 71st in the class.  His diligence paid off as he graduated in the top third of his class.   <br /> <br />            After finishing at West Point, Jackson would soon head to Mexico to serve in the Mexican War.  This proved to be a crucial period in Jackson's life as he distinguished himself as competent artillery man and began an interest in Christianity.  After exploring the different denominations Jackson was baptized in the Presbyterian Church in the early 1850's (60-61, he did not actually join the church until he moved back to Virginia).  It could be argued (and Dabney takes its truth for granted) that one cannot understand Stonewall Jackson without understanding his Christianity which occupied every moment of his existence.  In fact, Dabney uses Jackson's religious convictions to tie in all other themes in his life:  \\"As God's nature and will were to him the standard of that which is right, and the fountain-head of obligation, so, whenever he found a fellow-creature clothed by the sanction of right, with legitimate authority over his conscience, he honored and obeyed him within his proper sphere, as a bearer of a delegated portion of the majesty of heaven; and his respect became a religious sentiment\\" (87).  This mentality above all else would be the force that drove Jackson into war; having sworn fidelity to Virginia and seeing her cause as God's cause, he could then fight for Virginia and the South as he was fighting for God.   <br /> <br />            In speaking of the cause for Secession and Jackson's belief in it, Dabney is at his literary best.  Dabney described Jackson as a \\"States'-Rights' Democrat\\" and spends the next thirty pages describing the implications of that view.   Dabney argued that the right of a state, primarily Virginia, accepted the Constitution on one condition:  that she could retire from the Union if she found the situation to be unsatisfactory to her sovereignty (130).  Although this part of the book shows Dabney at his best, it is hard to see how much of these thoughts are Dabney's and how much are Jackson's.  Dabney briefly mentions slavery and that it was \\"not the cause, but only the occasion, of the Southern resistance\\" (163). <br /> <br />            Understanding the political and religious convictions of Jackson, Dabney then applied this understanding to the Civil War.  Jackson fought each battle with the same intensity with which he lived every other aspect of his life:  a religious devotion to God coupled with a fervent desire to his superiors.  Although Dabney never explicitly phrased it this way, Jackson saw himself as a soldier fighting in the army of God.  The Southern Cause was God's cause, or so Jackson thought.  As a result, Jackson could attribute each victory in battle to the blessing of God, as his letters to his wife show (229). <br /> <br />Critique <br /> <br />            Although one may fault Dabney with writing a biased account of the Civil War and his hero in particular, Dabney would have freely admitted as much.  Dabney was privy to much personal information about Jackson and had the advantage of serving as his chief-of-staff for a year in 1862, giving him key insight into important battles.  Although his prose was laborious at times, having warmed up to his subject he could reach elegant literary heights.  A fine example is his defense of Virginia in response to President Abraham Lincoln's call for an invasion of the South, \\"But when the tyrant tried the perilous experiment, he was startled by a result as unexpected as that which followed the touch of Ithuriel's spear.  She, whom he thought a patient, hesitating...paralytic, flamed up...like a pyramid of fire, and Virginia stood forth again in her immortal youth, the unterrified Commonwealth of 1776...wielding that sword which has ever flashed before the eyes of aggressors, the Sic Semper Tyrannis\\" (157).  Civil War studies have moved beyond Dabney's time, but his work has rightly gained the title of a classic. <br /> <br />	2004-10-27
US	33235215	R39035F1142RWR	0192891189	851625280	Aristotle the Philosopher	Books	4	10	12	N	N	Good, basic primer	Introduction <br /> <br />  <br /> <br />            J. L. Ackrill undertakes to examine the highlights of Aristotle's thought and use them to springboard into philosophical inquiry.  Ackrill begins the book with a brief biography of Aristotle and an introduction to his thought.   Ackrill aims to clear up misconceptions concerning Aristotle's methodology and to see that criticisms that are raised against Aristotle should actually be leveled against his followers who had different interests, and less ability, than Aristotle (81).  The major themes of Aristotle that are presented in this book are the analysis of change, formal logic, the mind-body problem, metaphysics, ethics, and philosophical logic. <br /> <br />An Examination of Aristotelian Themes <br /> <br />            The Analysis of Change.  Ackrill begins illustrating Aristotle's thought on matter and change by referring to Aristotle's response to the problem raised by Parmeninedes and his school, the Eleatics; namely, \\"What is, is one and unchangeable\\"-making predication and distinctions in thought and communication impossible.  Aristotle deals with this as an absurdity based on deliberate misunderstanding.  He makes two simple points:  he attacks the Eleatics' central thesis by showing their equivocation of the verb \\"to be.\\"  Aristotle deals with this problem by stating that all logical communication assumes the qualifications of its terms.  Secondly, he attacks their unwarranted dismal of ascribing characteristics or saying that things cannot change (25).  Ackrill then outlines the three important aspects of Aristotle's analysis of change-\\"x comes to be by y,\\" \\"y comes to be from x,\\" and \\"y comes into being\\" (27, 28). <br /> <br />            Explanation of the Natural Sciences.  In the previous chapter Ackrill used the analysis of change to show that in any changeable object matter and form can be distinguished.  In the same way he shows that changes of life in nature depend upon its material make-up; namely, a thing in nature's behavior will be determined by what it is made of and how it is put together.  This would seem to present a problem for Aristotle were it not for his asking the nature of the thing being changed (35).  Ackrill then begins to examine Aristotle's inquiry into the nature of causation.  Aristotle notes four types of causality for gaining knowledge, all of which may contribute to the \\"cause\\" of a thing.  In doing so, Aristotle is seeking to ask the \\"why\\" of a thing, not just the \\"what.\\"  Ackrill first notes the material cause, that from which a constituent thing come to be.  He then notes the formal cause; the form or mode is the cause.  Ackrill locates the source of the change in the efficient cause.  The end result of an action is its final cause (37). <br /> <br />            Logic.  Ackrill's chapter on logic is the most difficult to comprehend in the book.  One does not suggest that Ackrill's material his factually wrong, nor that he does not understand Aristotelian logic, but he does not go to great lengths to communicate the material clearly.  In speaking of Aristotelian logic Ackrill means formal logic manifested primarily in the syllogism (an argument containing two premises and a conclusion).  This is where Ackrill begins to lose his audience.  Traditional logic textbooks state, for example, \\"All men are mortal;\\" Ackrill, going upon the natural reading of the Greek, turns it around saying, \\"Mortal belongs to every man\\" (82).[1] He proceeds to justify his unique formation of syllogistic reasoning by saying that it has certain advantages, although he never says what they are.  He then spends five pages describing moods, forms, and figures-much to the confusion of the reader.  He notes, correctly I believe, that syllogistic logic has its limits and would fall under heavy criticism by the philosophers John Locke and Immanuel Kant (80, 87). <br /> <br />Ironically, one of the most interesting chapters is the one on scientific analysis.  ALthough Aristotle has been discredited in the realms of science, many scientists operate on the same basic epistemological framework that Aristotle does (ie, sensory perception is the root of knowledge).  It makes one wonder if thirty years from now they too will be embarrassed, their dogmatic claims  notwithstanding.  Ackrill did a good job on this claim. <br /> <br />             <br /> <br />	2004-10-02
US	33235215	R16F95CFN3TNVY	0830822003	289387795	The Challenge of Jesus: Rediscovering Who Jesus Was & Is	Books	4	9	10	N	N	A fresh look on Scripture	Jacob Aitken <br /> <br /> <br />The Challenge of Jesus: Rediscovering Who Jesus Was and Is. By N T Wright <br /> <br /> <br /> N.T. Wright?s aim in this work is to explore the person of Jesus from post-Enlightenment eyes.  He addresses the issues from a different stance than the typical liberal or fundamentalist: He affirms that Jesus actually existed but that He (Jesus) saw himself differently than we see Him.  Wright says that he has three concerns in this book: historical integrity in talking about Jesus, Christian discipleship that professes to follow Jesus, and empowering Christians with a vision that will transform the world (10-11). <br /> <br />The Challenge of Studying Jesus <br /> In the first chapter Wright discusses the recent history of the ?Quest for the Historical Jesus,? noting that a merely ?supernatural? Jesus?a Jesus that actually lived and was divine in our sense of the word?can easily degenerate into the ?Superman? myth, a myth that is actually a dualistic corruption of Christianity (15).  That being said, Wright then critiques liberal scholars for dismissing the Scriptures outright  while trying to speak confidently of the most important person of the Scriptures.  In this chapter Wright sets the tone for much of the book: ?Christianity, as we shall see, began with the througoughly Jewish belief that world history was focused on a single geographical place and a single moment in time...The living God would defeat evil once and for all and create a new world of justice and peace? (21-22).  Wright will take this theme and tie it in with the ?exile-exodus? theme for an early Christian narrative built on a Jewish worldview. <br /> <br />The Challenge of the Kingdom <br /> The challenge of the Kingdom was a challenge that was first given to the nation of Israel.  Christians, like the Israelites, were called to be a light to the Gentiles.  Israel?s failure to be that light merited its judgment that was played out in the Exile.  The message that Jesuspreached was, among other things, a repeating of this agenda.  Jesus preached his message using symbols and confronting other kingdom agendas: the Herodian compromise, the Zealot revolt, the Qumran pietism.  Wright takes a parable dear to many Evangelicals and interprets it through the lens of Exile and Restoration.  Instead of the Prodigal Son merely being a message about forgiveness, it was an announcement that the return from Exile was happening through Jesus?s own work (42).  In calling His people ?Jesus was calling them to give up their agendas and to trust him for his way of being Israel, his way of bringing the Kingdom, His kingdom-agenda?(44).   <br /> <br />The Challenge of the Symbols <br /> Jesus?s challenge of the symbols was a challenge to the Jews to let their symbols go.  The symbols that the Jews cherished were leading them to destruction.  The challenge of the symbols must be seen in light of a political agenda generated by eschatology. Jesus did not reinforce, but challenge the revolutionary zeal (58).  The Sabbath.  When Jesus picked grain on the sabbath he brought down the Jews question of ?Does He exhibit symbolic action by which a loyal Jew would show gratitude to God?(60).   Instead of seeing Herod?s temple as the Incarnation of God to His people, Jesus was the Temple and so, the Incarnation to the Jews. <br /> <br />The Crucified Messiah <br /> Jesus saw himself as the temple consummating what the sacrifical system pointed to.  Jesus saved his people from the exile of sin that they were in?he was telling them that the exile had ended.  The challenge to the Jews was that they must see him as the new Temple and the new hope for Israel.  Clinging to the physical temple would not save them from the Romans.  If the Romans crucified the Messiah, the leader of Israel,  how much more so would they judge the Jews?  Why did Jesus have to die?  He had to die to undergo the punishment that would fall on the nation. <br /> <br />Jesus and God <br /> Before answering the question, ?Was Jesus God?? Wright first defines what God is with reference to 1st-Century Judaism: a) God had created the world and b) will come again to vindicate his people.  Wright answers in the affirmative and then qualifies it by noting: 1) the Temple was the incatnational reality of the Jews?Jesus was the temple according to the prophecy given to David in Second Samuel.  Furthermore, Jesus viewed the Torah as the Word of God administering the ?Shekinah? among his people?Jesus assumed both roles. <br /> <br />The Challenge of Easter <br /> Wright argues for the Resurrection (the full argument is too deep for a book review) by noting that Christiantiy arose as a ?kingdome-movement, a resurrection-movement, and a Messianic-movement.? Wright then employs Paul?s argument for the Resurrection by noting: the Resurrection meant that the Scriptures had been fulfilled, the old-age had passed away, and the Kingdom of God had arrived.  If that is so, the Resurrection is the future re-embodiment of the Christian dead and the em-bodiment of the Christian living. <br /> <br />Overall I found the book intriguing. I will never look at the prophets in the same light again.  Nevertheless, he did makes some stereotypes of Reformed people that I thought were groundless.  He had a powerful conclusion and a practical application.	2004-07-23
US	33235215	R3I0BHMC2DEM6G	0842313354	136742732	Chosen by God	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Desperation of the Sinner	I was wondering if I actually needed to read this book, as I have already read other R C books and was familiar with the arguments.  Needless to say, this book refreshed a few things I forgot.  It is more philosophical than biblical, although the Scripture is there.  Although short in size, it is not necessarily an easy read.  Sproul does something in this book that I have not seen him do elsewhere: he uses diagrams.  A few are:<br />Justice/Non-justice                           Mercy<br />and then there is the not able not to sin diagram<br />Sproul's definition of the will's freedom is crucial in this book.  In doing so he borrows from Jonathan Edwards: \\"Edwards defined the will as `the mind choosing'...before we ever make moral choices we must have some idea of what we are choosing...my inclination and my motives are shaped by my mind....I act according to those inclinations...<BR>Ergo:<BR>The will always chooses according to its strongest inclination at the moment\\" (54).\\" So in reality, we are slaves to our own free-will.<br />In the next chapter he goes on to illustrate how any denial of original sin necessarily entails vicious question begging, especially if pressed on how society becomes bad.<br />As to the reviewer from Glendale, CA, he started out writing a fair review but then got off track.  As to whether Schaeffer was an Arminian, bear in mind that he was a Presbyterian and did graduate from a Presbyterian seminary.  Furthermore, According to theologians Scott Burston and Gerry Walls, Schaeffer was a soft-determinist in the tradition of Van Til, unlike most Arminians.  Other misconceptions of Schaeffer self-destruct upon scrutiny.  And yes, Geisler is a four-point Arminian, believing only in eternal security.  Furthermore, Sproul gives a correct interpretation of helko.  The reviewer claims that the normal meaning of the word doesn't count in John 6:44, in doing so he interposes a different context onto the one in 6:44.  Finally, concerning Romans 9, andI can only mention one part.  I know that this debate will never be solved, but if the whole chapter is on service rather than salvation, then why at the beginning does Paul wish himself accursed and cut off from Christ?  That is understandable if one's people were damned, but it seems like emotional over-kill if they are not chosen for ministry.<br />But what practical value does the denial of free will have for evangelism?  Sproul, Boice, and Van Til maintain that if the sinner believes that he can choose God today, then he can put it off and choose God tomorrow, ad infinitum.  If he realizes that he cannot choose God, but is a slave to sin, then he has to come to grips with how DESPERATE his situation is!  He is driven to his knees in awful desperation.  Then, and only then,can he realize that he cannot save himself.  Which is what the gospel is about.	2004-05-27
US	33235215	R2YXXBT7AOK9OB	080280747X	890160006	No Place for Truth: or Whatever Happened to Evangelical Theology?	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Wells Contra Mundum	In a separate lecture elsewhere, Wells reported to his wife that when this book is published, he will receive a lot of criticism from the EVANGELICAL flank of the church.  As some of the reviews below have shown, he was excatcly right.  <br />Wells's thesis can be summarized thus:  &quot;Since the church has adopted all the vestiges of modernity, it has become irrelevant to God, and as such can no longer deliver the demands of God to a dying people.  This is so because the church views reality in light of a modernistic (and postmodernistic, although that thought is not developed thoroughly) framework.  It cannot make itself better because any attempt at SELF-reform will only re-inforce modernity's grip on the church.  The Church's only hope is for &quot;prophets&quot; to call the church back to its focal point:  the Holiness of God, without which life is meaningless.&quot;<br />However, the book is not perfect for several reasons.  1)At times it was too technical; had it become more personal for pastors and theologians it would have fared better.   2)It did not deal adequately enough with postmodernism, although with all fairness to Wells, pomo did not have the cultural influence in the early 90's as it does now.  <br />Its strengths, however, really show themselves in the last few chapters.  In fact, pages 298-301 are worth the price of the book.  Here are a few excerpts:  &quot;Christian faith is only Christian to the extent that it has been constituted by the Word of God, the Word that God has made powerful and effective in the reconstituting of sinful life&quot; (298).  And:  &quot;The habits of the modern world, now so ubiquitous in the evangelical world, need to be put to death, not given new life&quot; (301).<br />Finally to one reviewer who gave it 1 star and accused it of being puritanical dribble, Mr Rivers.  I gather the impression that he did not read past the first chapter.  Wells uses one puritan village as a microcosm (and an accurate one) of theologyin practice before Modernity.  Furthermore, Wells did not come up with this idea; he documents Cambridge historian Paul Johnson's book, OUR TIME.  It appears Mr Rivers not only read past the first chapter, he did not even read the footnotes in the chapter.  Even assuming that he read the book, he is still not interactin with Wells's arguments.  He is merely restating them and then saying he does not like them.  While he said this shut the door for more research, I personally cannot wait to read Wells's other books in this genre.	2004-05-26
US	33235215	R6QGGEFV2N5Z4	0801043913	640157313	Putting Amazing Back into Grace	Books	5	47	53	N	N	Gospel Antidote to Cultural Inanity	What St. Horton Really Said<br />Yes, I am basing my title off an N T Wright book (I borrowed the title, I am not critiquing or applauding Wright).  I really get annoyed at having to write reviews that are both explanatory of the book and refuting what some anti-Horton apologist wrote.  I am speaking particularly of the reader from Portland, OR.  I will not spend too much time refuting him, he does a good job of it himself.  My aim in this review is to speak of the book, refute the attacking reviewer, and explain how one is to write a review.<br />Horton attempts several things in this book:  1) present historic, reformed Christianity in a popular fashion, and 2) offer this new-found protestantism as an antidote to the self-help psychology group.  Since many in the debate are familiar with the five points of Calvinism, I will forego them, sufficing to say that Horton gives them new (and better) names, killing the acronym.  Instead of Total Depravity--Rebels without a Cause; Unconditional Election--Grace before Time; Limited Atonement--Mission Accomplished; Irresistable Grace--Intoxicating Grace; Perseverance of the Saints--No Lost Causes.  Fear not, Calvinists, these are the same doctrines always taught, just renamed.<br />Horton does several challenging things with this gospel:  1) after affirming that God is Soveriegn, he then critiques Dispensationalism and charges it with affirming that God has lost control over creation.  His second to last chapter is on keys to spiritual growth (think: sacraments).  I have to disagree with him on baptism, although it is a well-defended chapter.  I disagree with Horton on two points:  Baptism and his representation of postmillennialism.  I know he is aware of the differences between theonomic postmillennialism and pietistic postmillennialism, he tends to blur the lines a few times<br />How Not to write a Review:  <BR>The above mentioned reviewer claimed that Calvinists always used Augustine as their prime spokesman; that is only half-true.  Calvinists find Augustine has a powerful ally against the Pelagians; however, his views on the sacraments helped plunge the Middle Age Church into darkness.  Kevonic is attributing to Horton what the history has revealed about Augustine.  Even if his historical analysis were true (which I doubt), that would be totally irrelevant to the issue at hand.  HORTON DID NOT EVEN ONCE QUOTE AUGUSTINE, NOR DID HE NEED TO!!!!!!  That leads me to infer that the reviewer DID NOT EVEN READ THE BOOK!.  And what is the deal with bringing up Tom Oden.  Every one knows that Oden is an Arminian.  Furthermore, we all welcome Oden restoring the Church Fathers to our reading lists, and we applaud his heroic attacks on liberalism.  Does not Mr Kevonic know that Oden appeared as a special guest in Horton's magazine, MODERN REFORMATION?  And contrasting Oden with Packer?  They have co-authored at least one book, ONE FAITH, I think it is.  I know they have thier theological differences.  Furthermore, most Calvinists know the difference between a semi-Pelagian (which is what the Evangelical Church is today) and an Arminian.  For a difference, of which Horton is aware being that he was a contributor to the book, see FOUR VIEWS ON ETERNAL SECURITY, which has Calvinist, Arminian, and Semi-Pelagian views.  In fact, I will quote Horton from that book, &quot;Stephen Ashby's (an Arminian) contribution represents a much-needed correction of the caricatures of Arminius's views&quot; (Four Views, 188).  Does that sound like Horton is unaware of the distinction?  <br />How to write a Review&quot;<BR>Briefly explain the review, express, with examples, your areas of disagreement/agreement.  Correct caricatures made of the book; recommend other books.	2004-05-26
US	33235215	RYBX2AHYHFI67	0802846394	116214904	Where Shall My Wond'ring Soul Begin? : The Landscape of Evangelical Piety and Thought	Books	4	1	2	N	N	A mixture of good and bad providing a balanced view	These are a series of essays that were presented to the Harvard Chair of Evangelical thought.<br />Evangelicalsim at its best (Mark Noll) manifested itself in its hymondy.  Despite the differences between Evangelicals, their hymnody maintained a cohesive witness centered around the cross, social concern, and a struggling ecumenicism.<br />&quot;Christ-Centered Piety&quot; (Dallas Willard) expresses itself in three ways: conviction, conviction, and testimony.  AMong other ways which evangelicals can express themselves pietistically, WIllard notes two:  discipline (implying that Christ was a teacher as well as Lord) and reason (Arguing that since he was divine he was the smartest man who ever lived).<br />&quot;Committment to Scripture&quot; (William Abraham) challengingly argues that the canon should be viewed as a list and not as a criterion for truth.  Perhaps he could have been more clear.    He interestingly notes that Evangelicals view Scripture with a foundationalist epistemology.  This adds an interesting spin to the essay without really contributing to the thesis.<br />&quot;Trinitarian Theology&quot; (Alister McGrath) urges Evangelicals to focus more on the trinity and notes that such a view implies God as Creator.  The implication of that being a renewed interest in the natural sciences and in natural theology.  I disagree on the latter for apologetic reasons.<br />&quot;Disciplined Spirituality&quot; (Cheryl Sanders)starts and ends great but the middle of the essay got off track concerning the Civil rights movement.  Now I will grant her conclusion was powerful, but the premisses were too weak to support it.<br />&quot;Evangelical Ethics&quot; (Richard Mouw) distinguishes between personal reflection and social action and notes that there should not be any distinction.  He then focuses his essay on ecclesiology (remnat church), eschatology (world end catastrophically), and epistemology (antithetical thinking between unbelievers and believers).  He gives interesting insights but I disagree with his conclusions.<br />&quot;Living Tradition&quot; (David Wells) is probably the most exciting essay of the book.  He argues that tradition protected the faith from Modernity and will protect it from postmodernity.  He has the best conclusion of all.<br />The Book was a short, interesting read, one that I finished in a day.  I advise one to get it and read critically.  The best essays were by Noll and Wells.	2004-05-17
US	33235215	R3FMYGVAUHJ1R5	0140094385	539733955	Amusing Ourselves to Death: Public Discourse in the Age of Show Business	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Devastating and Funny	Borrowing from Marshall McLuhan, Communication Arts professor Neil Postman adopts the thesis that the `medium is the metaphor' by arguing that \\"each medium, like language itself, makes possible a unique mode of discourse by providing a new orientation for thought, expression, and sensibility\\" (10).  McLuhan argued that the medium is the message; Postman carries it one step further by demonstrating that the `medium is the metaphor.\\"  He illustrates this by showing how the Cherokee Indians would communicate to multiple peoples separated by distance via smoke signals.  While not knowing the nature of the discourse, Postman draws the inference that it probably did not contain philosophical argumentation because you cannot use smoke to do philosophy.  The metaphor's form excludes the content (7).  Postman illustrates this in the negative using the second commandment: Thou shalt not make unto thee any graven image, any likeness of any thing in heaven above, in the earth beneath, or that is in the water beneath the earth.  Wondering why God would make such a decree, Postman infers, \\"it is a strange injunction [second commandment] to include in part of one's ethical system unless its author assume a connection between forms of human communication and the quality of a culture\\" (9, emphasis his).<br />This book is more relavant today than when it was first written. I live in a dorm and see people wasting their brains on video games (which I deem more dangerous than television).  By the way, and I do not know how many reviewers caught this, Postman is not categorically bashing television.  He notes how this has been a blessing in the lives of the elderly and the infirm.  I thought this was a master stroke of sympathy and I commend him for it.	2004-04-28
US	33235215	R1LZNQUZNBNZQW	0801038367	280379670	Come, Let Us Reason: An Introduction to Logical Thinking	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Good, but eventually move on to Copi and Cohen	For a person who has grown up in the television age and not used to rational thinking (90% of America), this book is pivotal for an understanding of logic.  Upon first glance this book is hard to read because we are not used to thinking in terms of complex propositions. And, like any textbook, the more that you put into it, the more you will get out.  An understanding of loigc is necessary for even a superficial reading of the Bible. St. Paul in every sentence is using logic to its deadly effect.  To read Romans and Galatians without reasoning properly is...<br />For those of you who read the review of Mr. John M K and could not understand what you wrote, do not be alarmed.  He deliberately spoke in incoherent sentences, which is what happens when you deny the validity of logic.  The only time he did make sense was (for the sake of argument, I assume he did) when he was using logic to attack the use of logic. For example, thieves often reason this way, &quot;This is not my wallet but it is not the case that it is not my wallet.&quot;  We usually do not take them seriously. I will let the reviewer decide the validity of that.  With all due respect to Mr. M K, this is not the first time that he has committed logical fallacies in reviews (see my review of *Christianity and Liberalism*).<br />The bright moments of this book is that the employment of logic opened up a new world for me.  I fault Geisler with certain examples he used.  Sometimes he did not go far enough.  That aside, tis should give the student an understanding of the basic content and how to use it.  After mastering this book I would recommend moving on to *Introduction to Logic&quot; 11 ed. by Copi and Cohen.  For a quick refreshment of logic see chapter two of *Philosophical Foundations for a Christian Worldview* by Moreland and Craig (I do not entirely endorse other parts of that book, but chapter two is pivotal).	2004-04-15
US	33235215	R3JED3TTGLO52Z	0852344465	634731609	God's Renaissance Man: Abraham Kuyper	Books	5	15	15	N	N	My Heart for Thy Cause	McGoldrick has given the church a valuable introduction for what one may hope to be a Kuyper revival.  *God's Renaissance Man* may be a fitting title for the life and work of a politician, preacher, theologian, and journalist--areas where Kuyper could have easily set the standard.  The book begins by giving his early life, his internal struggles with liberalism at college, his conversion to the Reformed Faith in his first pastorate, and the public battles in which he was the center for the rest of his life.<br />The Parts that I found most interesting were the ones on his life at college (including his temporary loss of rational control, only to be regained by reading classic literature), his wars with liberalism, and his founding of a new denomination.  McGoldrick either loses me, or attempts to cover too much too fast at the end of the book.  Nevertheless, that did not mar the book at all, it just pointed the need for more work on Kuyper.  Other interesting parts of the book show Kuyper's foundational thoughts concerning the presuppositionalist mode of apologetics.  An example, there are no neutral men, for faith is the foundation of all thought, especially scientific thought;  Faith precedes the examination of evidence.  Granted, there are more and possibly better examples of his apologetic.  McGoldrick also doesn't hide the reader from Kuyper's faults, and those of his immediate followers.  Many have taken his cultural mandate to the extreme that evangelism is neglected, although this was not true of Kuyper.  His supralapsarianism, if I am correct, will cause some in the Reformed camp to stop and question (even I am not so sure).  Although I am not a paedo-baptist, I can understand where my Presbyterian and paedobaptistic friends depart company with Kuyper here, as his view of Baptism was not in the mainstream of Reformed thought.  Nevertheless, the admission of these faults show the humanity of Kuyper and the honesty of McGoldrick--both of which we may imitate.<br />Kuyper was a man for his time and provided us many examples: on how to leave a denomination, over how to make Christ lord over all, and on how to combat liberals.  His theology may be summed up in:  &quot;There is not one square inch where God does not cry, 'Mine!'&quot;  May this book be a springboard for a Kuyperian revolution.<BR>One last item: this book has an excellent bibliography for further study, a biblio of say, 5 pages.	2004-03-11
US	33235215	R31JSRA9EALSH6	1885767390	837158919	Fierce Wars and Faithful Loves: Book I of Edmund Spenser's The Faerie Queene	Books	5	17	18	N	N	Transcendental (but not the Emerson type)	Roy Maynard ought to be commended for aiding us in reading Spenser. Personally, I think Spenser tells a better yarn than Shakespeare, with all due respect to the Bard.  This book was written by a Christian, with powerful Christian overtones, and Christians will benefit the most from it.  The language is archaic, the story is...well...schockingly relevant.  <br />I said in the title that the book is transcendental.  What I mean is the book, in certain sections, touches areas that strikes the reader to the core.  No, the hero is not perfect.  Yes, he fails over and over again.  But the battles he fights!  The nature of forgiveness, pain, guilt, ecstatic joy--Spenser pulld no punches.  And to point out another irony of historical revisionism prevalent in the public schools:  Spenser has sexual allusions (fear not, for they are used to show, in the words of CS Lewis, \\"the fierceness of Chastity\\" and the bloody fight that its worth); even more shocking is that Spenser is a proto-Puritan, thus debunking the whole Puritan \\"prude\\" myth.  By the way, the true hero in the book is King Arthur, not Redcrosse; you will see why later in the book.<br />Yes, the book is hard to read, even with Maynard's annotations.  But oddly enough, it is easy to follow, by and large.  I will end with a quote from CS Lewis, \\"...to read Spenser is to grow in mental health.\\"	2004-03-06
US	33235215	R5YBYLVDBPJUE	0801021510	607298002	Baker Encyclopedia of Christian Apologetics (Baker Reference Library)	Books	4	65	72	N	N	Give him credit, he attempted the impossible	Before I go any further I will state my background and possible presuppositions concerning the book.  I am reformed, broadly pressuppositional in apologetics, and non dispensational in eschatology; therefore, I understand that Dr Geisler and I will probably not see eye to eye on some issues.<br />The book is a handy reference despite one's outlook in this area. He attempted the impossible and nearly succeeded.  I agree with others that he should have incorporated other scholars to help.  Here are the faults that I have with the book:  He intends to view most major theologians of the past as *classical* in outlook, Calvin being the major example.  Even more ironic is the fact that given his (Geisler) &quot;cold neutrality&quot; towards the Reformed faith, he warmly reivewed Reformed scholars who happened to employ a Classical outlook on apologetics (Machen, Warfield, etc.).  Now don't get me wrong, those were good articles that he did. The last problem I have with the book is his treatment of Van Til.  Some legitimate criticisms of VT maybe employed (although I certainly wouldn't try) but Geisler gives several columns in praise of VT and 4 pages, double columned in critiquing VT.  He even uses John Robbins as a legitimate source on VT (this is nothing against Mr. Robbins, it just should be noted that he is antagonistic towards VT). He also misrepresents Jonathan Edwards.<BR>The Good aspects of the book:  Geisler writes with logical precision.  He answers most challenges to the faith, and he spends OVER 40 PAGES, DOUBLE COLUMNED in defense of miracles.  Obtain a copy of this volume if only for that!  Despite my above criticisms of this book, I use it every day and would gladly recommend it to others	2004-03-01
US	33235215	R1JGJSYE299HRM	0802811213	279635094	Christianity and Liberalism	Books	5	4	6	N	N	A trumpet of no uncertain sound	After reading this book I did not know whether to write a review or critique Mr. John M K's review of the book-both were equally interesting.  Machen's basic thesis, as others have pointed out, is that Liberalism is not another form of Christianity, but a religion separate and distinct from Christianity.  Liberals claim that Jesus is the essence of Christianity; Machens then asks them to qualify that statement, which turns out that there Jesus is about as historical, and inspiring, as Tolkien's Gandalf.  Now don't get me wrong, I loved LOTR, but if the Christ of faith is divorced from the Christ of Histor, then, pray tell, what is the difference between Gandalf and Jesus?  The only answer for Christianity is that there is a transcendent God who has revealed himself historically in His Son Jesus.  Machen further delineates this by mandating the Cross and Resurrection as an Historical event.<br />Mr MK claims that the PCUSA is right and the conservatives are wrong.  Well, that is an interesting statement, and I grant him his right to it, but why didn't he prove it?  He let me down.  He challenged historic Christianity, but did not back up his challenge.  He then proceeds to talk about Communism for three lines or more with no particular reason for doing so.  In all honesty, I searched his review long and hard for a sentence or even a clause relating to the book at hand; alas, I could find it not.<br />This book is the line drawn in the sand for Christians.  &quot;Separation is the crying need of the hour.  The things about which men disagree, those are the ones about which men ought to fight.&quot;	2004-02-28
US	33235215	R24XX7VF8LVJTA	0684184176	386896766	A History of the Christian Church	Books	5	16	19	N	N	Irritating at times, but overall well-done	I understand that I am differing with other reviewers in giving Walker 5 stars, and at times I found Walker's passe divorcing of &quot;faith and history&quot; annoying, nevertheless, he knows his history and how to write it.  <br />The editors at the beginning  make note of how Walker was indebted to the fruits of German scholarship--that becomes evident really quick in the book.  In examing the early years of Chrisitanity (Christ through the rise of Docetism), Walker, although I disagree with parts of his methodolgy, has cogent arguments for the development of Christological thought.  His contribution to early Trinitarian thought is outstanding.  He outperforms himself in the times Jan Hus to the Reformation.  Although I had a good grip on the Reformation, I found myself re-reading those chapters simply because they are so good.<br />This is a well-researched book.  However, I was shocked when I saw the price.  Nevertheless, and the bigger the checkbook the better, this book is well-worth the horrendous price (ok, I understand there is a reason for the price).  Tolle Legge!	2004-02-23
US	33235215	R2C4GA059O2WRT	0875527043	964306348	After Darkness, Light: Distinctives of Reformed Theology : Essays in Honor of R.C. Sproul	Books	5	19	19	N	N	They brought in the best from everywhere	This book was a compilation of essays in honor of R C Sproul.  In doing so, they brought in the most articulate Reformed scholars around.  For those who want to know a little more about Dr Sproul's life, there are a few brief bio's in the book which are interesting to read.<br />The set up of the book is the five points of TULIP interspered with the historic Solas of the Reformed faith.  The best chapter was easily the one on Sola Fide by Sinclair Ferguson.  I have read many popular level introduction of Faith Alone by many good scholars, Sproul included, but this is clearly the best.  A quote in distinguishing great and little faith, &quot;These different degrees of faith have in view the extent to which we respond to God in a manner commensurate with the greatness and trustworthiness of his promise.&quot;  That is only a sample of the erudite, yet understandable nature of the book.  Other good chapters are Mike Horton, &quot;Sola Gratia,&quot; and John Macarthur, &quot;Solus Christus.&quot;<br />The Book is highly readable (I read mine in 24 hours) and yet very scholarly. By all means take up and read!	2004-01-14
US	33235215	R2LSJYHGSBMZPV	0310432502	804136196	An Introduction to the Old Testament	Books	5	46	47	N	N	A new spin on intro's	I was much pleased when I bought this intro to the Old Testament.  In short, Dillard and Longman have done the church and teh believing community a great service by providing a scholarly and evangelical introduction that is not afraid to tackle the hard questions of the Bible.<br />They divide each section of the introduction into Historical/literary/Theological message/Approaching the New Testament.  As to one reviewer commenting that this is very biased, I actually think that this was quite objective.  Longman analyzes the prevailing critics presuppositions and then provides a logical counterpart.  And also, they are (while remaining robustly evangelical) more balanced in their conclusion than other evangelical scholars (cf. Gleason Archer for a passionate, well written, if a little biased example).<br />In my eyes, this books greatezt strengths were its incorporating the theological message and approaching the New Testament into each book.  The Bible then comes alive.  Its weakness is similar to many other scholarly works, it could get overly teachnical at times.  Overall, a well organized intro.	2003-12-18
US	33235215	ROXQSNNUI6V5X	0801011566	87147691	Invitation to the Classics (Masterworks)	Books	5	18	18	N	N	A Manual for Western Civilization	I found this book to be a training manual for the renewal of Western Civilization.  Our Culture, heritage, and way of life must not become extinct.  Cowan and Guinness have done the church a remarkable service for the Church by compiling these essays.<br />Each essay is about 4 to 6 pages in length, supplemented by photos/pics, quotes, and questions for application at the end of the chapter.  Like many works associated woth OS Guinness and the Trinity Forum, this book can challenge deeply held notions and force one to rethink them.  The breadth of authors covered is immense: the Greeks to the Latins to the Reformers to Modern Day.  Also interspersed are esssays about classics by non Christians.<br />The Book stresses that the classics are not canonicle but complementary.  The need for reading--studying--old books can not be overstated.  C S Lewis said that for every new book one reads, one should next read to books from another century for obvious reasons:  those books have been tested over time.  <BR>Tolle Legge	2003-11-12
US	33235215	R1DU5N2972XKZC	0195030834	979639426	Fundamentalism and the American Culture: The Shaping of Twentieth-Century Evangelicalism, 1870-1925	Books	5	74	78	N	N	Objective, Fair, and fearless	The thesis of this book parallels that of George Marsden's similar book on American culture, Religion and American Culture, that Fundamentalism shaped and was shaped by the surrounding culture.  Marsden builds upon the work of earlier historians of Fundamentalism, namely that of Ernest Sandeen's book The Roots of Fundamentalism:  British and American Millenarianism.  Sandeen's thesis is that Fundamentalism is the outgrowth of the \\"millenarian\\" movement that developed in late nineteenth-century American, especially through Bible institutes and conferences concerning the interpretation of biblical prophecies.  Sandeen's thesis, according to Marsden, has much to commend it in connecting millenarianism and Princeton theology to the movement; however, it does not deal adequately with the militant anti-modernistic slant of the movement.  Fundamentalism can briefly be defined as militant anti-modernist Protestantism that took on its own identity as a patchwork coalition of representatives of other movements.<BR> Overview of the Book<BR> Marsden divides his book into three sections (these sections are different in intent than the above themes.  Marsden uses these sections to expand on his themes), Evangelicalism before Fundamentalism, the Shaping of Fundamentalism as a Movement, and the Crucial Years in which it gained popularity and its subsequent exodus of public life.  In understanding the rise of Fundamentalism at the end of the nineteenth-century one must understand the backdrop from which it arose-nineteenth-century evangelicalism.<BR> Conclusion<BR> Marsden concludes the book by re-emphasizing his definition of Fundamentalism as a militant anti-modernist conservative force.  For Marsden this should be the starting point for defining the movement.  Militant anti-modernism applies to all types of Fundamentalism and any definition that goes beyond this must have qualifiers so that false stereotypes are not applied to the wrong group.  As an Evangelical I enjoyed this book as I saw where the mind-set of conservatives and liberals developed.  I also learned to what extent my own beliefs were influenced by this movement.  I suggest that this book be read alongside another book on the shaping of American Christianity for a full understanding.  I would also like to see an analysis of Fundamentalism from a more mainline perspective, although I believe Marsden is objective in this work.  My main qualm with this book is in Part Three.  In discussing the peak and soon-to-come fall of Fundamentalism, Marsden tried to put too many ideas into too few words.  To keep up with him I had to re-analyze several chapters.  However, due to the length of the book already, I can understand his attempt to save space.  I would recommend this book to people of all political and religious persuasions so that they may have a fair understanding of this branch of early twentieth-century American religion.	2003-10-03
US	33235215	R1LHJKOBWRR93J	0849935571	301800465	Daniel (Mastering the Old Testament) (Vol 19)	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Deep and Alive	The book I actually worked through was of the old Communicator's Commentary.  Fortunately that series is no longer operative, but even more fortunate, Dr. Ferguson is.<br />As bad as Communicator's was, Dr. Ogilvie should be commended for trying to improve it.  Now to the book itself.  As the other reviewer already noted, those who approach Daniel from a prophetic viewpoint miss the forest for the trees.  Ferguson does not crucify scholarship at the expense of application.  He provides deep truths with poignant illustrations (many of them with gripping Scottish overtones).  Underlying Dr, Ferguson's interpretation of Daniel is a rock-hard foundation of God's Sovereignty.  While focusing primarily upon the prayer lives of the heroes, Ferguson does justice to the prophetic sections when they arrive.  He provides convincing exposition from a Reformed eschatological background.  He also argues convincingly for an early date of Daniel.<br />I recommend this commentary for pastor's and the curious layperson.  In fact, this is one of the top non-technical commentaries on the book.	2003-09-28
US	33235215	R2QWV8V391QZN4	0802482015	49493906	A Survey of Old Testament Introduction	Books	5	26	28	N	N	Passionate scholarship	An Old Testament PhD student recommended Archer as a good, general, upper college level introduction for me.  I go to liberal arts school where all the students kiss the ground that Wellhausen walked on.  For them to even think of refuting The Documentary Hypothesis is to blaspheme Christ.  Therefore, I trembled for joy when I bought Archer.  Having been indoctrinated by the critical theories I was overjoyed when I saw someone apply sensible scholarship to a holy love for God.<br />Archer's set up is odd, to be honest with you.  Unlike Dillard & Longman (Bibliography/Genre/Authorship/Background/theology/Approach to New Testament)Archer approaches the individual books quite differently.  He is more into archeology breakthroughs, names of certain kings, \\"problem texts\\".  My one flaw with the book is that he did not develop theological themes enough.  <BR>     However, the First and last sections of the book are well worth the price.  Archer aims his cannons and unbelieving critical theories and blows them out of the water.  First he estavlishes the presuppositions of criticl scholars.  If you do not believe that God is able to reveal Himself (or exists, for that matter) then naturally you will doubt the supernatural inspriation of the sacred text. In this section the most exciting part is the refutation of the Documentary Hypothesis.  In the last part he examines the work of three prominent Old Testament scholars--Von Rad, Childs, and Noth.  He is fair--analyzing them by their presuppositions--and then states his.<BR>    I would highly recommend this book but also read it alongside another good introduction.	2003-09-27
US	33235215	R2V6J3TANISRZO	0310286700	14879080	Systematic Theology: An Introduction to Biblical Doctrine	Books	5	14	14	N	N	A Spiritual Systematic Theology	I read Grudem's work in conjunction with Millard Erickson's similar work.  Grudem is a little simpler read than Erickson, although at times he will require the reader to think hard, especially concerning salvation.  Grudem comes from a post-tribulational, charismatic-calvinist bent.<br />The work is unashamedly evangelical, although Grudem will at times express his indebtedness to non-evangelical theologians.  Most evangelicals will agree with him on the doctrines of God, Bible, and creation.  The points of difference for evangelicals will be salvation (many good argumetns from many positions), the authority within the church, and the millenium.  This book differs from other theologies at the end of each chapter.  Grudem offers study questions, memory verses, hymns, and a bibliography for furthter study.<br />I found that Grudem's most well argued sections were :salvation, Providence, modern day gifts (for which i remain unconvinced), and the millennium (also unconvinced).  His logic for the most part is impeccable.  I read this book alongside Erickson and Calvin and found it most helpful.  It is well worth the price.	2003-09-17
US	33235215	R3J35SJ4PT0BH0	0851513530	721671524	David Martyn Lloyd-Jones the First Forty Years 1899-1939	Books	5	32	32	N	N	A Great Portrait of a Great Man	The First volume of this work by Murray shows the dynamism of a man who strived for Christ-Exalting Power.  After reading the is biography I can only ask myself, &quot;Can such men live again?&quot;  What made Dr. Lloyd-Jones so used by God?<br />I suggest at least three factors:<BR>1)  He placed the origin of revival at the proper source, God.  His theology of revival was supremely theocentric.  He knew that true revival is when a Sovereign God awakens the hearts of his people.  Such a revival proves real conversion.<BR>2)  Second to his power was the need for holy study.  At a time when the academia in Britain were denying the sacred text, and with no conservative alternative, Lloyd-Jones filled the gap and held high the Scriptural banner.  What was said of Edwards could be said of him:  &quot;He put fidelity to the Word of God above all else.&quot;  Also was his constant study of great theologians like the Puritans, Jonathan Edwards, and Warfield.<BR>3)  Although this theme is brought out more in the second volume, he was more concerned with pleasing God than appeasing men.  This is seen in him giving up a medical career for a pastorate.  Would to God that there were more preachers who lived before an audience of one!<br />At times his theology will challenge one.  His view on Baptism in the Holy Spirit is worth dialouging and debating.  And for some, he will appear odd in that he was a Calvinist evangelist, a model for men to come.  His message is desperately relevant for us today.	2003-07-27
US	33235215	R3SA16WPK123L0	0802409431	840732515	Who Are You to Judge?: Learning to Distinguish Between Truths, Half-Truths and Lies	Books	5	35	37	N	N	Sound, Biblical Discernment	I am new to Dr. Lutzer's books, but after hearing much about it, I decided to give it a try.  I was not disappointed!  This book runs in the same vein as John MacArthur's _Reckless Faith_, although this book is more broad in its scope of defining deviant doctrines.  <br />AMong the statements that Dr. Lutzer makes on biblical discernment these are the most notable:  A half-truth is more destructive than a whole lie, namely because a half truth is harder to recognize. The theme of the book would be to develop in Christians the discipline to learn discernment in a loving way.  That is, when one is exposing error, one should do it with an intent to win back the brother.  He then goes into detail on distinguishing between true and false miracles, true and false doctrine, false prophets, etc.<br />However, I must warn this:  If you have read Dr. Macarthur's book on discernment (please read this one as well), and you were offended by his &quot;intolerant&quot; statements about the Charismatic movement or the Catholic Church (amazing that Christians now adopt the language of the world!), then this book will probably have the same effect.  But then maybe not.  MacArthur writes with fire and ice; Lutzer is more cool and rational.  Anyway, Just read both	2003-05-28
US	33235215	R1BPHD9SU00T80	1576833364	566993504	The Gospel for Real Life	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Why live in quiet desperation?	I bought this book after someone recommended Jerry Bridges to me.  I found this book a very basic, easy to read guideline to Covenant theology, namely the aspect of Salvation and the Christian Life.<br />Bridges Encourages believers to embrace the reality of Christ's finished work on the Cross, understand the meaning of reconciliation and Adoption by God, and no longer live with the knowledge and regret of past failure.  Among the interesting points in the book is Bridge's interpretation of the word *propitiation* (which I fully agree, and believe it will satisfy the demands of modern, Reformed theologians).  Chapters 5-9 contain the heart of the book as well as the heart of the Gospel.  Bridges is able to take deep thought from modern and older reformers and put them into Everyman language.<br />Final Analysis:  This book is basic.  It contained no new truth, it just retold it in different terms (which is important).  If you are familiar with the Catholic/Protestant debate over Sola Fide, then this book will  not add anything new to the argument that both sides have not already heard.  Try to find the book cheaper and it would well be a Sunday read which you could probably finish in a day.  The book is aimed at those who are liveing their livies in quiet desperation.  Only when we fully realize what Christ actually did on the cross will we ever truly live.	2003-05-26
US	33235215	R2Z02BSXRD6LP4	1577489799	501469263	Chuck Colson Speaks: Twelve Key Speeches by America's Foremost Christian Thinker	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Extremely thought provoking	I found this little book to be a summary of Colson's philosophy as expressed through twelve messages.  The effect that this had on me is phenomenal; he made me rethink my future plans and basically, caused a mid-college crisis.<br />The main ideas in this book will be repeated several times because he gives them in the form of speeches, not as a long, narrative discourse.  Several (of the many!) themes are:  freedom is found in a moral law p.20;  a way of doing apologetics by porving that only the Christian way makes sense (p. 55);  knowable, scholarly truth and it is the highest goal one can pursue (p.75).  His plea for presuppositional apologetics (even if you are not a presuppostionalist, I think you would understand his point, p.114);  the Christian duty seek the glory of God in one's vocation (p.138);  despair is sin because it denies the sovereignty of God (repeated over and over but articulated on p. 165);  a rational approach to ethics is pointless if it lacks a will to do what is right (p.194).<br />Final Analysis:<BR>By now I hope you have an understanding of what Colson is trying to convey.  This is a brief summary of what is found in *How Now Shall We Live* and *Being the Body* (But please read both of those as well).  It is curious to see what the West would be like if Christian's took up Colson's challenge.	2003-05-25
US	33235215	R2RQH7A9ZDZUU9	0830819479	550075483	The God Who Is There	Books	4	28	34	N	N	Almost Five Stars	I picked up this book after seeing F.S. referenced many times in the works of Chuck Colson.  For those of you familiar with the apologetic work of Colson, FS runs in the same vein; namely, that Christianity has reasonable foundations and more importantly, it is the worldview most compatible with reality.  My main problem with the book is that FS did not spend enough time in the first 2 parts of the book elucidating his propositions, thus the 4 star rating.  By the middle of the book I figured out what he was doing.<BR>The Book Itself:<BR>Several of his theses are:  postmodern man lives &quot;below the line of despair&quot;.  Following that, he is forced into a dichotomy of existential despair or Christian Truth.  His primary thesis is that of the anithesis:  if one thing is true, then its opposite is not true.  He then shows how a denial of this has pervaded modern culture, especially that of art.<br />Final Analysis:<BR>I found the book interesting, even it written too fast.  I wished he would have clarified many things early on.  Nevertheless, this has moved me to read more of his works	2003-05-25
US	33235215	R1ULDF30Z43VHS	187761193X	54153407	Justification by Faith Alone: Affirming the Doctrine by Which the Church and the Individual Stands or Falls (Reformation Theology Series)	Books	4	7	10	N	N	A good work--could have been edited	I found this work to be a decent, sound introduction to the protestant interpretation of sola fide.  I am a protestant and agreed with everything said.  However, the book does have its lapses.  As the editors mentioned in the preface (and the negative reviewers did not notice), none of the authors corraborated with each other in writing this, thus the repetition.  The one fault I do have with the book is the tension of how was Augustine portrayed.  Macarthur has him affirming sola fide and Sproul has him denying it.  Which one is true?  I think that Both, if viewed in context, are accurate.  Students of Church History know that Augustine was a theological paradox (and in many instances, such as predestination, he changed views later in life).  He is known as the father of the reformation and the father of the modern Roman Church.  He had a romish view of the sacraments and a protestant view on sin and predestination.  Sproul nor Macarthur should have appealed to him.<br />The Review:<br />The authors write passionately, not necessarily neutral or overly objective; they write to win souls.<br />Macarthur did show that Jesus taught sola fide, although implicittly and not as extensively as Paul.<br />Sproul did a fine job, especially drawing on McGrath's book, Iustitia Dei<br />John Gerstener and John Armstrong had long sections with extensive bibliographies.<br />&quot;Rome not Home&quot; by Gerstener can not be judged to be right or wrong.  He is merely retelling a lifelong observation of Catholic scholar, Scott Hahn.  And for the information one reviewer, Gerstener does shed light on how Reformers view &quot;apostasy&quot;, although that is not his intention.<br />Final Analysis:<br />The book was passionate, well-written, and mediocrely edited.  Unfortunately, that lowers its value in Catholic's eyes.  It is an intro, not an exhaustive text.  Read it as a springboard for understanding the 400 year old conflict.<br />By the way, read pp. 160-164 for our understanding of James 2, Romans 3, Genesis 15 and 22.	2003-05-24
US	33235215	RPQB8OQNPW3UI	0801021820	954581406	Christian Theology	Books	5	98	103	N	N	Standard, Higher Education Text	I bought this theology at the urging of one of my ministers at Church.  I found the book deep, but not overwhelming.  Erickson comes from a robustly evangelical, gently Calvinistic background.  He is respected by moderates and conservatives alike for interacting with other positions fairly, namely that position of Karl Barth--Erickson offering an Evangelical interaction.<br />For the information of one reviewer who said that Erickson's book Lacked the intellectual rigor of a Barth or Rahner, I would reply that this is an intro-level text at seminary , not a doctoral text (I went to one seminary bookstore to look around and conversed with other PhD students to find this out).  In fact, Erickson's willingness to interact with Barth on numerous occasions is praiseworthy.  Although Erickson is said to be Calvinistic in his approach, there will be times that he annoys Calvinists (See Wayne Grudem for a slight difference in, for example, &quot;Does Regeneration precede faith?&quot;).  To get the most out of this text, read another systematic theology at the same time to compare and contrast.<br />Final Analysis:<BR>THis is a good work, especially for young evangelicals as myself.  It is a work that will get one excited about systematic theology.	2003-05-24
US	33235215	REERTG6X5VGTE	0849916488	552884906	Loved by God	Books	4	6	7	N	N	A good intro to Theology Proper	I must be honest:  I bought this book for the CD that came with it (which is a decent 17 minute intro to the book).  Sproul appraoches the task of exploring God's love with humility and hopes that this book will &quot;be a springboard for a lifelong pursuit of this love.&quot; <BR> <BR>The overall rating is A-.  The first three chapters were loaded with deep, heavy thought concerning the nature of God, and interacts with differing modern views that examine this concept.  I respectfully differ with one reviewer concerning the chapter on election--I basically agree with Sproul.  He delivers the basic Calvinist challenge on Romans 9.  However, he does leave several questions that need to be answered.  The next two or three chapters were ok; they were not the best that Sproul is capable of, thus the 4 star rating.  His chapters on our love for one another are pretty good and worth a read.<br />Final Analysis.<BR>THis book is a good, solid &quot;intro&quot; to the love of God.  It is not the most exhaustive treatise on divine love, nor was it intended to be. This is a book from which the beginning and advanced student can profit from.  It is overall well-written with only a few chapters that leave some to be desired.  Also, the CD is an added bonus to the book	2003-05-24
US	33235215	R3D4XNEY3M7X06	1581342993	538212722	The Doctrines of Grace: Rediscovering the Evangelical Gospel	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Intro to the Reformed LifeView	I bought this book with a desire to understand more of Calvinism. I came at it with, I believe, an objective view.  Boice expounds convincingly the Calvinist texts, redefines the TULIP acronym so that it is more clear and precise, and gives direction on how a Calvinist lives.<br />As other reveiwers mentioned, Boice does a good job on the easy texts and leaves some wanting on the hard texts (see Michael Horton instead).  Also Helpful are the verses of the hymns that Boice composed before each chapter.  In the final chapters Boice (and Ryken) attempt to refute the claim that Calvinists are the &quot;Frozen Chose&quot; and points to history and the example of 10th Presbyterian Church as signs of a lively Reformed faith.<br />Final Analysis.<BR>If one is a seasoned Calvinist or Arminian, then this book probably will not be anything new for you.  However, for a new Reformed or an Arminian wishing a debate, this book will be interesting.  For those more seasoned, try Michael Horton's Putting Amazing Back into Grace.	2003-05-12
US	33235215	R3DS8HKWQKEGJG	0060652934	963630731	The Screwtape Letters	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Typical Lewis Wit	This is the first Lewis book that I have read and it made a permanent impression on me. This cut me to the heart when I read this my freshman year in high school.  It has also given me hope in my darkest hour.<br />As many know, Lewis engages the reader into a dialogue between two devils, Screwtape and his apprentice, Wormwood.  Screwtape gives advice to Wormwood on how to tempt a new Christian.<br />I have read this book several times and am conviced that it is either a perfect witnessing tool, or a tool to build up a young believer.  I encourage the matured saint to master the book and become conversant with it, being able to enter into dialogue with Sceptics and young believers.	2003-05-11
US	33235215	R3GXH52CT04E4G	0060652950	94824058	The Great Divorce	Books	4	8	8	N	N	An interesting bus ride	This book was one of the launch pads into the realm of Lewis. The book, fiction though it is, requires one to follow the point of Lewis--those who do not go to heaven would not enjoy it there anyway. <br />This book has caused unnecessary fire from people who have a terrible habit of reading \\"fiction\\" literally. This book is not canonical Scripture. Please do not think that Lewis proposes that one can travel from heaven to hell, and vice-versa. Lewis is merely trying to make a point. <br />I would encourage readers to enjoy the book, apply the message to their lives, and not to dampen the impact with wooden literalism.	2003-05-11
US	33235215	R3AFP6O3CXQ332	1581342373	405684564	Whatever Happened to The Gospel of Grace?: Rediscovering the Doctrines that Shook the World	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Neo Reformation	This book by Dr. Boice (Ph.D., Basel, Switzerland) was a rich, fresh read for those suffocated by pluralism and relativism.  When looking at the decay at the world, one is excited to read that the same decay was present before the Reformation.  Dr. Boice expouses the same hope for today.<br />Dr. Boice expounds the five reformational creeds (Sola Gratia, Sola Fide, Sola Scriptura, Solus Christus, and Soli Deo GLoria), the impact that they had on their world, and the possible impact that they can have on our world.  Boice notes the dangers that plague our churches and our homes, relativism and pragmatism, and how each of these creeds, immersed in Scripture, provide the elixir for our dying land.  Also with these Scripture Creeds, he shows the impact that Reformation minded saints can transform society.<br />I thoroughly enjoyed this book.  It is not as deep as many of these type of works (as scholarly as he is, Boice is a pastor and communicates as one), making it a readable work that can be read in a busy schedule.	2003-05-11
US	33235215	RFHSIWGDFXNKJ	0801020751	811892745	Evangelical Dictionary of Theology (Baker Reference Library)	Books	5	19	20	N	N	A Standard Primer for Theology	I found this to be a useful, standard, objective primer for theological studies.  The contributors, all brilliant scholars, were very fair to the opposing view, adequatley describing thier position and only rarely critiquing it.<br />I found this to be a fresh evangelical approach to the Neo-Orthodoxy that I am exposed to daily. I recommend the second edition which has been updated to include modern scholars as Packer and Lloyd-Jones.<br />Final Analysis<BR>The qualities of this work are its objectivity, freshness (without being preachy), and its broad expanse of topics.  The downside would be its tendency for being wordy and laborious on some issues.  Do not let this prevent you from buying it, just be forewarned.  All in all, a handy tool.	2003-05-08
US	33235215	R1U8JNPY9MO9NL	0851517048	56626824	Jonathan Edwards-A New Biography (Paperback)	Books	5	39	39	N	N	A Soul Stirring Biography	Jonathan Edwards is maybe the most exciting historical Christian to study (except for Luther.  Part of this explanation is the fact that history shows us a much differnt picture than the modern stereotypes show us.  Murray is to be commended for his standard setting work on Edwards.  Murray is very warm and doctrine centered.  As periodical \\"Christian History\\" said of Murray's work, \\"this is the biography Edwards himself would have most appreciated.\\" (Spring 2003).  <br />Final Analysis<br />This book is long, complex, and well researched.  It is not bed time reading, but rather, Sabbath reading as it will stir one's thoughts to the Lord.  Murray pulls no punches as he shows his view of Edwards: This man saw more of the glory of heaven and the terror of hell than any modern Christian ever will.  Murray's aim is that after reading, Christians will then take up Edward's works and discover the glory for themselves.	2003-05-08
US	33235215	R31JAFPMU8QTDU	0849917522	179643978	Being the Body	Books	5	24	26	N	N	Typical Colson Brilliance	Like his other book, How Now Shall We Live?, Colson argues brilliantly and convicingly for a Christian worldview. This book is not perfect and I have my disagreements with him on several issues, which I will voice later, but this was extremely edifying to the saints.  <BR>     <BR>He has divided the book into three parts:  What is the Church?  The Church against the World.  The Church in the world.  Interspersed between each theological/practical chapter is a chapter on how the church triumphed over Communism.  In part one Colson gives a convicting definition of the Church, that is, the Church is the believers, not the pretty building down the street. Here he argues for unity between denominations and points how such unity enabled the Church to rise above her oppressors in the past and empowered them to proclaim a dynamic Christian witness.  In part two he lays bare the nature of Truth. Truth is propositional.  As Francis Schaeffer put it, &quot;we must argue for 'True truth'&quot;, that is the truth that is found only in Jesus Christ.  And in communicating this truth we must show the postmodern world that their worldview cannot match up to reality, only Christianity can.  And when the Church proclaims this truth against the tide of the world, society is transformed (expressed brilliantly in chs. 19-20).  In part three Colson gives an outline on when the church has properly equipped the saints in modern day times the surrounding community is transformed.  Also of interest to the reader would be the new stduy guide and recommended reading list at the end of the book.<br />Final Analysis:<BR>This is one of the top five books I have ever read.  Here are my faults with it.  I am a thoroughly reformed protestant and I am very uncomfortable on the Evangelicals and Catholics Together Doctrine.  What are we, Reformers who desire to change culture, to do with union with Catholics?  Is there any reconciliation?  Here is what I propose to my Protestant and Catholic bretheren:We cannot reconcile our views on justification; let us leave it at that and unite in the public square, not the spiritual square.  I say this with utmost respect to my Catholic brethren. May God uses this book for His Glory!<br />Soli Deo Gloria	2003-05-03
US	33235215	R1X2ZSZO5CPX4U	080106211X	666549360	Turning Points: Decisive Moments in the History of Christianity	Books	4	15	18	N	N	Primers for Historians...nicely done	Noll is to be commended for  doing a nice job concerning an impossible task.  Someone wisely stated that one does not evaluate church history by events, but by people.  Noll challenges that assumption, by evaulautaing events in church history.<br />This book is written as an intro text, easy to read, for laymen.  But more advanced historians can profit from it, sharpening them on finer points. Of particular interest to me were the chapters concerning the middle ages (monasticism, crowning of Charlemagne, and Luther, especially Luther.)  Noll's commendation is for giving a list of possible turning points for future historians...worth noting.  On a personal level, one hopes that an historian would write a modern-day, post communist history on the church concerning their survival of that satanic, abominable philosophy.  Such a work would point to the glory of God.<br />                     Final Analysis<BR>This is a good, intro text. If read with Bruce Shelleys's work, one would have an adequate grip on the Church.  Granted, the book has its sleepy parts (thus the four stars), its brilliant parts (Luther), and its soul-stirring parts (the church surviving Communism).  Also, Noll is to be commended for his objectivity as a Protestant historian.	2003-05-02
US	33235215	RIRWXMXJFEDTP	0800635795	664058593	Traffic in Truth: Exchanges Between Science and Theology (Facets)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	A good middle ground for a polemic subject	I read this book after hearing Ravi Zacharias mentioned him in one of his speeches, and it was very interesting/provacative.  The book is extremely small and can be read in one sitting (i.e. 30 minutes).<br />The problem according to Dr. Polkinghorne between science and theology is that they do not respect each others' boundaries, thus casuing name-calling and ill-feelings, largely unneeded.  Polkinghorne states that inhabitants in &quot;theology land&quot; make scientific judgements (usually ignorantly) about &quot;science land&quot;, and vice-versa.  <BR> <BR>Polkinghorne states the problems that then arise when people who are not trained in a specific discipline make authoriative pronouncements on that discipline.  At this point I fully agree. However, he does make several comments that left me uncomfortable, but that is natural.  We will never always agree.<BR> <BR>At the end of the book he points scientists and theologians towards a scientific apologetic, nicely done.  It is a great read and could be used as a tool for reaching out to sceptics, opening their eyes to the natural mysteries of God.  I would also give this to conservative evangelicals (including me) to help them understand the role of Science in God's plan.	2003-04-30
US	33235215	R2N7JGC8FMXWBT	0842318089	894734344	How Now Shall We Live?	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Soli Deo Gloria	This book had the same effect on me that lightning has on a tree.  My mind has never been the same since.  This book reminds Christians that Christianity goes beyond the walls of the Church into the secular arena.  Its mandate is for Christians to engage secular culture with the demands of God.<br />The outline of the book is simple:  How did we get here (the debate on creation vs. evolution)? What is wrong with us (here they show the fallacy of any worldview that denies the sinfulness of man and builds a worldview on human goodness as opposed to biblical morality)?  And finally, How do we fix it (Showing that redemption is found in Jesus Christ alone)?  After addressing and answering these questions Colson this shows how we, as orthodox Christians, should live.  The Chapter. \\"Soli Deo Gloria\\" I read on my knees in worship of such a God.  <br />This chapter has offended several reviewers, namely the reader from Oakbrook, IL.  This reader claims that Colson's list of \\"classical offerings\\" has \\"lyrics or imagery\\" as bad as the (I won't use an adjective) rock bands.  First, the reader provided no source; secondly, and I have personally checked the \\"classical offerings\\" that Chuck presents and very few, if any, have lyrics at all (so much for the reprehensible lyrics Colson is guilty of presenting.  Honestly, how many classical music songs have lyrics?)!<br />All of this notwithstanding, this is one of the finest books written this decade.  It has permanently changed my thinking and possibly my future.  Now that I have praised it I will now critique it.  Colson, and I will keep my criticism low because he has heard this complaint many times, came very close to betraying orthodox Christianity when he and Neauhus devised the Evangelicals and Catholics Together Document.  I rejoice that Catholics oppose the modern day holocaust known as abortion, and their deviant doctrine notwithstanding, they strive to maintain a biblical worldview.  But surely Colson realizes that Romeconceded nothing in the document and he and the Evangelicals surrendered the high ground.  Fortunately this document does not speak for mainstream Evangelicalism.  Please understand, Colson is my second favorite author (after John Piper) and he is a modern day prophet and I will read everything he writes, but I felt obligated to show where he erred.  All in all, this is the book to read for the counter-cultural Christian. Soli Deo Gloria!	2003-04-21
US	33235215	RJF9GFVI54A93	0687278252	11921552	The New Interpreter's Bible: Hebrews - Revelation (Volume 12)	Books	4	10	17	N	N	A Good Commentary, but....	Make no mistake, this is a good serious commentary but I will caution against it for 2 reasons (both of which can be overcome): As the other reviewers no doubt notice, it is horrendously overpriced. Find some way to get around the price. The other fault is practical: Anytime a commentary volume devotes more than 2 books per volume, then the books are not give then expository justice they deserve, there simply isn't enough room.<BR>Nevertheless, I will get specific on the pros and cons of the Johannine letters and the book of Revelation in the commentary.<br />Johannine Literature. Although the exposition is limited in these volumes, Dr. Black does draw out important truths from the letters, particularly good are the \\"Reflections.\\" The downside of his scholarship is the uncertainty in which he deals with the practical appliactions. He notes the failures of the mainline church but wonders why they are there when the text is right before his eyes!On the other hand, this is a very detailed commentary, despite its limited expositional space.  What makes the NIB interesting are the reflections, allowing the author to challenge the reader without being preachy.  If the expositor's bible commentary had the reflections that NIB had, evangelicals would have a standard commentary.<BR>Revelation: This is another flawed gem. Dr. Balckman's introduciton is rather lenghty, which is always good. His reflections are nicely done. His excurses are masterful. However, he has this annoying habit of depending on English poet William Blake for interpreting the book as opposed to godly biblical scholars. Aside from this minor faux pas, he does a fine job. I really wanted to give this commentary 4 1/2 stars <BR>Bottom Line: if you can get this commentary cheap--get it. If not, do not lose any sleep over it.	2003-03-29
US	33235215	R1IBL3TLI2CGUT	1581341377	921162191	The Spirit of Revival: Discovering the Wisdom of Jonathan Edwards	Books	5	12	12	N	N	There is yet still hope	This book is similar to Piper's God's Passion for His Glory in that iit contians a commentary on Edwards and tthe text of one of Edwards' books (although this book is an infinitely easier read than Piper's.  Sproul and Parrish do a fantastic job in the introduction where they give the background to the state of revival in  New Engalnd.  At the end of the book are exercises for those who would like to prepare for revival<br />The text of Edwards, Concerning the marks of the Spirit of God is much easier to read than his other works (although Sproul modernizes the text--this probably a good thing for many of Edwards' sentences would go on for pages).  I would recommend this book for the challenge it offers Bible Believers (who else could be involved in a revival?) as they pray for revival.  May God raise up another Edwards to combat the secularist, charismatic, postmodern onslought facing our churches!	2003-03-28
US	33235215	RUM19SY7M5NW	0684840022	864239842	Rising Tide: The Great Mississippi Flood of 1927 and How it Changed America	Books	4	2	3	N	N	The Past Repeats Itself	John Barry begins his story with a prologue that describes a quasi-aristocratic party held near the Mississippi River with the threat of a flood hanging overhead.  The leading men in the city attending the party are given a warning of the threat that the levees may not hold and they then drive out to the levees to examine them.  The prologue leaves the reader hanging wondering the importance of the men and the relevance over whether the levees hold.  In the following pages, Barry outlines his thesis as this:  the 1927 Mississippi River flood changed the political, economic, and social structures in America, and how man's pride in controlling nature and was a failure. <br />The Reviewer's Analysis<BR>I would commend Barry for his historical venture into the Mississippi River country.  Barry was at times biased in his approach, but he did keep this to a minimum and did not let it deter his story.  An example would be the dynamiting of the levee:  Barry implies that this was unnecessary; however, he does so in only a few areas.  Barry gives almost seventy pages of documentation at the end of the book for the reader to check his work.  The book's most compelling aspect in my opinion was the first section describing the engineering theory and the ensuing political battles.  Its greatest shortcoming was jumping from city to city throughout the book.  I also am curious as to whether the destruction of St. Bernard Parish in the twenties impeded the progress of the parish at the present time, but that is perhaps beyond the scope of this work.  Overall I would recommend this work to anyone living near a river and has fought floods in the past. No doubt they can sympathize with the trials and triumphs of those who battled the flood.  I believe they would find it enjoyable.	2003-03-24
US	33235215	R1TT2OG3W5ZE86	1573581445	350924616	Feed My Sheep: A Passionate Plea for Preaching	Books	5	18	22	N	N	Drink Deeply of this Scriptural Well	The Fact that this book is excellent should be no surprise, merely take a glance at the authors.  This book will probably offend pastors who are in to the modern pop pyschology, but then they probably wouldn't be reading it anyway.  Granted, that was probably unfair but...<BR>Naturally some chapters are better than others, here are a few:<br />&quot;The Lasting Effect of Experimental Preaching&quot;--the essay on spiritual formation--worth the price of the book.<br />&quot;The Primacy of Preaching&quot;--by Albert Mohler--very good, a wake up call to the church.<br />&quot;Expository Preaching&quot;--good and bad examples of expository preaching, very fun chapter.<br />&quot;Preaching to Suffering People&quot;--by John Piper.  It is by Piper, enough said.<br />&quot;A reminder to Shepherds&quot;--By John Macarthur, a fitting close to a fine book.	2003-03-22
US	33235215	R2EFNS9XGHR1TU	093944304X	866497206	The Struggle of Prayer	Books	5	17	20	N	N	The Art of Holy argument with God	I have a Calvinistic view of prayer and divine Sovereingty and this book was a challenge to read, all the more challenging because the men Bloesch quoted from were Reformers.  The advantages of Calvinistic theology are obvious, the only drawback is that many ask, what is the use of man praying?  Bloesch engages the reader into the answer.  This book will cause many Calvinists and Arminians to wrestle all the more deeply with the Living God.  The interesting factors are that DB uses are:<br />The Prophetic Prayer (used by the Reformers)<br />The Mystic Prayer  (Used by Catholic-Anglicans)<br />And the dangers of both extremes	2003-03-22
US	33235215	R1ZPPUK4BMO4E4	0891077936	558151560	Reckless Faith: When the Church Loses Its Will to Discern	Books	5	11	13	N	N	As a dying man to dying men	There are some books where the passion is so intense it bleeds through the pages, Macarthur's is one of them.  This is the first Mac book I read and also the best one.  Charismatic and liberal infidelity had stormed the ranks of my campus; my back was to the wall and my sword broken, then God raised up from the ranks John Macarthur to combat higher criticism on one front and Charismatic chaos on the other.  When I read this book, my blood boiled.  For I could relate to the trampling of the Word of God that was mentioned in the book and that I had seen in my schools.  But really...is it necessary to \\"shoot our own wounded\\" when the gospel needs to be preached?  I think it is.  Please hear me out.  The Gospel must remain pure (read Galatians if you disagree) to be effective.  First, a liberal would never preach Christ crucified, adn a Charismatic would preach anyting that sounded good, as long as it does not draw theological lines which would expose his error.  THis book also sheds a good light on evangelicals and catholics together. Does Macarhtur try to get his message across?  I think a quote from Richard Baxter would suffice :  \\"I preached as to ne'er preach again, and as a dying man to dying men.\\"	2003-03-07
US	33235215	R9UFSTQAR8LHW	1581343582	694558087	Faithfulness and Holiness: The Witness of J.C. Ryle	Books	5	22	25	N	N	Persevering against the Odds	&quot;I only know it is far easier to be a Christian among singing, praying, sympathizing Christians in a public room, than to be a consistent Christian in a quiet, retired, out-of-the-way, uncongenial home.&quot;<BR>As the other reviewers have said, this is an appreciation and should be read sa such.  Appreciation or no, Packer reaveals the facts and this makes Ryle enjoyable to read about.  Ryle was a man among men in his day and would be a demi-god among men in our day, with so little doctrinal preaching in our midst. What caught me about Ryle was that he was widowed twice and he outlived his third wife, and yet still proclaimed the Word of God.<BR>To be honest, his book holiness is not easy to read.  BUt as John Piper said, &quot;Raking is easy, but all you get is leaves.  Digging is hard, but you might find diamonds.&quot;  Ryle stands in the old Puritan tradition.  Maybe tough to read, but extremely edifying to the saints when read.  His view on Holiness stands in direct contrast with the view of Finney.  But that is okay because the Bible stands in direct contrast with Finney.  THis book should be read by all denominations:  Anglican/Episcopal so that they may appreciate one of their own.  Baptists, becasue he preaches like one.  Charismatics--so that they might be rescued from their erring ways.  <BR>This is a good introduction to Ryle's life and hopefully will accomplish the task that Packer hopes, that one may read more of Ryle, along with the other puritans.	2003-03-06
US	33235215	R3HUZLTAAZ3F5N	0802839746	450079635	Finding the Will of God: A Pagan Notion?	Books	5	28	32	N	N	A Passionate Plea for Biblical Sanity	IT always amazes me that those who read and study their Bibles know more about it that those who would get their theology from an emotional worship service.  THis book had about the same impact on me that lightnng has on a tree.  Personally, this book could not have come at a better time; I was pleading with \\"wishy-washy\\" Christians to go to the Bible for discernment on wether this was God's will.  <BR>  Dr. Waltke bridges the gap between scholar and lay person without compromising truth.  The first chapter he  gives horrid examples of Christians who follow mis-guided adivce (we are all guilty of at least one example) adn later on in the book he shows the biblical counterpart.  The Book is not very long, esay to read, and packed with dynamite.  The Chapter on 'reading the bible' is worth the price of the book.  Again those who read their bible, this will not come as a surprise.  However, if you get your direaction from extreme emotions, this book will be a painful challenge.  I really wanted to give the book 18 stars but that was not an option.  By the book. Ask for as many free copies as you can and give them to your sorely sincere but misguided friends...	2003-03-05
US	33235215	R2650OQ3OTQSAK	0805417729	769790031	Theologians of the Baptist Tradition	Books	5	18	18	N	N	Drink Deeply of a Rich Heritage	Most of the books I read are a chore or mandatory, especially dealing with theology and Church History.  However, this one was sheer delight.  There have long been jokes about the ignorace of Baptists, for instance, &quot;Whatis the difference between a Presbyterian and a Baptist?  A Presbyterian is a Baptist that can read?&quot;  We Baptists may be known for our evangelistic fervor, but not for our Theological heritage.  This book introduces the reader to minds that have been rivaled only by Calvin, Luther and the rest. The purpose of the book is to move the reader to study Baptist theology and, if a Baptist, to appreciate one's heritage.  If not a Baptist, then to understand, evualuate, and appreciate this denomination's contribution to orthodox Christianity.  Nor, are all these theologian's academicians, George and Dockery to a great job of combining mighty pastors (Spurgeon and Criswell, for a few) and Classroom theologians (Garret, Erickson and others).  Of special interest are the chapters on A T Robertson, J Broadus, Spurgeon, and Criswell.	2003-01-20
US	33235215	R2EMEY85IN40A6	0195283481	285263373	The New Oxford Annotated Bible with the Apocrypha, Revised Standard Version	Books	4	16	20	N	N	Beautiful Read	I bought this Bible for a New Testament Intro Class.  My appreciation for the Scriptures has grown since.  The translation is more beuatiful than the NIV but more readable than the NASB.  Also, it has not bowed to political correctness like the NRSV has.  It does not matter how egalitarian one is, gender-inclusiveness is not an attractive read.<br />Particularly helpful (or harmful) are the book introductions.  IT is very important to consult an evagelical opinion at the same time, not to embrace that view necessarily but to get a well rounded view of the opinion.  Another interesting aspect is the articles at the end, &quot;How to read the Scriptures with understanding.&quot;  This is without doubt the most beautiful essay on Bible Reading.  However, these men openly doubt the historicity of the sacred text.  Whether they are right or wrong, they very eagerly embrace higher critical views that can be dangerous if they are abused.  The main reason that i give the book 4 stars is that some of the information is dated.  The Documentary Hypothesis was once popular to academicians, now archeology is beginning to shed some uncomfortable light on it.  They place more weight on that theory than necessary.  other than that, a great read.	2003-01-04
US	33235215	R1K842Y20J8KIJ	0195046455	608350206	The Oxford Companion to the Bible (Oxford Companions)	Books	4	26	30	N	N	Critical, but opens a whole new perspective	This is the required text at my college and when I bought it I imediately went to my room and read.  I must say I disagreed with most of the positions I read, but nevertheless, it was very emlightening and gave me a different perspective in the book.  The theological position of the book varies: ranging from liberal to evangelically conservative.  However, overall it adapts a mainline, critical, slightly evangelical appraoch to the bible.  That is important to know before one reads the book, this is not an objective work.  These writers, like all, have their own presuppositions (several of them outdated) and naturally, like you or I would, they put them into the text. This should not discourage the reader, a different perpsective is always needed.  I would say that one should consult a book with a differnt approach at the same time one studies this.  A book I would recommend would be The Evangelical Dictionary of Theology.	2003-01-04
US	33235215	R1DD2VDLH34N0T	0785257543	413815194	The Nelson Study Bible: New King James Version, Burgundy, Genuine Leather, Gilded Gold Page Edges	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Clear, Consistent,and Confident	I was given this BIble as a gift 5 years ago and I still read from it daily.  ITs streghts lie in the fact that it is firmly evangelical and believes in the inspiration of Scripture.  In the opening pages one will see that hundredrs of renown scholars have contributed to the articles and annotations.  What I particularly liked about it was that it examined 'hard passages' in thier biblical context, offered the opposing views, and then gently espoused thier view based on solid exegesis.  Also pf note are the word studies, in depth articles, and special excerpts that focus on a hot doctrine of SCriptre.  Evem more amazing is the factt htat the scholars who contributed did not hammer their opinions down your throat, sometimes never voicing them at all!  For example,  many of the contributors came from  Dallas Theological Seminary, yet you wil not find them throwing dispensationalism down your throat.  However, the main editors, Dr. Earl Radmacher and others come from Western Conservative Baptist Seminary. Other institutions represented range from New Orleans Baptist to Princeton.<BR>Bottom line:<BR>I have over 20 refernece and study bibles and this one I will recommend over any, including Ryrie.  This book changed my devotions and bible studies.	2002-12-31
US	33235215	R1HAX27RCVT8JC	0849939437	152659957	Can Man Live Without God	Books	5	18	26	N	N	The Hammer of Logic	This book was Logic spearheaded by the holy Spirit.  The critcs above or below hammer at RZ, but note carefully, they do not go into a convincing refutation of his arguments.  As for reading Geisler or Sproul (great authors they are)he is at least their equal.  Also if you can find this book in bookstores, get it because it will have a cd with his lectures on it.  Worth the whole price of the book.  The hole irony of aplogetics as this:  Dr. Zacharias is compellingly conving, he cannot be refuted.  But yet he is attacked.  SCripture says that &quot;carnal man does not understand the things of the Lord.&quot;  But yet we have a mandate from the Lord to evangelise.  Buy the Book, if only for the CD.	2002-12-31
US	33235215	R358GUB8X2WAL9	0875524664	844294375	Puritan Papers, Vol. 1 (Puritan Papers)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	A Fresh view of the Puritans	This is a masterful introduction to Puritan Life and Thought.  Unashamed in their view of Election and God's Sovereignty, they then proceeded to live their life powerfully and fervently.  Although this is not a work of a single thesis (it is divided into chapters on topics ranging from the Sabbath to Notable Puritans to Revival) it is an excellent and unashamed view of men &quot;whom the world was not worthy.&quot;  Its main theme is that the puritans were the strongest where the church today is the weakest.  this si a definite read	2002-12-30
