US	33326207	R2TU3R3HMJIEZ2	0786928042	926952674	The Thousand Orcs (Forgotten Realms:  The Hunter's Blades Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Good action throughout the whole book	It is nice to see that Salvatore is coming up with new ideas for this Drizzt novels.  There always seems to be some new problem or inner demon that one of the companions have to face.  This book, the start of a new trillogy does not let fans down.   <br />Action and suspense is littered throughout the pages of this book. The plus about this book is that it seems that Drizzt and the gang have finally met their match.  This is the first book in the whole Drizzt collection where, there isnt exactly a happy ending, or even just a little bit of a happy ending.  This novel really leaves you waiting for the next book in the trillogy. <br /> <br />	2005-09-11
US	33326207	RI5O420Y1AE4R	0066214130	57180289	State of Fear	Books	4	9	12	N	N	Informative, Shocking, and most of all.... Thrilling	Crichtion has always had the upper hand when it comes to writing a thriller with a lot of science involved in it.  With \\"State of Fear\\" there is no exception.  We get plunged into a world of science that has gone crazy and the result is us staying up all night to finish the story. <br />In this novel, Criction tackles the very very touchy subject of global warming and spits in its face.  As all Crichton fans know, He does not short us on true facts and information that he has collected in prep for his books. <br />As for a short storyline, the book is about a group of environmentalists raising money to help study and stop global warming.  A top lawyer for this group gets caught up in a crazy chase to stop a group of renegade environmentalists that are trying to create wild weather to show the world that global warming is a threat. <br />Throughout the whole book, Crichton pounds us with true facts and charts showing that global warming is really not a problem.  That our planet will not feel the slightest effect of the warming for close to 1000 years.  This is what makes this a great read.  Not only to we get one heck of a thriller, but a lot of very usfull info that can help you come to your own conclusion of this huge thing called Global warming. <br />Crichton is a master writer.  This book is a great read.	2005-07-06
US	33326207	R1ZWJ7XLH6W4PE	0385508077	267190278	Autobiography	Books	3	0	0	N	N	An inspiring story, but I wanted more.	To hear the story of Helmut Newton is to hear a story of a bottom feeder making his way to the top.  Growing up as a Jew in Germany during World War II and escaping to live on his own with nothing but the clothes on his back and his camera.  Who would have thought that he would become THE fashion photographer of our time. <br />Whether or not you know his name, almost all know his work.  Gritty, Contrasty, and very UNfashionlike fashion photos.  He took a chance, putting fashion and nudity in the same catagory, and it is what put him on the map. <br />The problem here is, that Helmut talks more about his life as a runaway, a serviceman, and a ladies man, than a photographer.  When the stories of his photo life are revieled, it is not as detailed as it could have been.  Much was left out.  Especially his live as a Playboy photographer.  This was not even mentioned.  When talking about his major Nude projects such as \\"Domestic Nudes, and Big Nudes\\", we only get about a page of info.   <br />I wanted more.  Although, even if I knew that a large chunk of his life was missing out of this book, I would have still bought it.  It is a truly inspiring story that all amature and pro photographers alike should read.  It lets you know that even when all odds are against you, keep going and someone will notice.	2005-06-23
US	33326207	RHJF19YHEVAIT	0786918985	871727540	Sea of Swords (Forgotten Realms: Paths of Darkness)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Much better than the other titles in this four book series.	I was extremely excited to finally pick this book up after finishing the previous three in the series.  I wanted a story that wasnt going to give me a sour taste in my mouth, which, the others did a bit.  What I really wanted was to see the companions of the hall come together and fight together again, after being seperated for so long.  That is exactly what you get in this novel. <br />The story is strong, like Salvatores first trillogy and the battles leave you as excited as ever.  The villian is one that we have only heard about in the other books and now we really get to meet face to face. <br />I had a great time with this book and am happy that I didnt give up on this series as so many others did after the two previous books.  Dont let them make you stray.  Pick this one up.	2005-06-01
US	33326207	R299BGWIPEZIC4	0446533297	462898886	The Effects of Light	Books	5	10	12	N	N	A book that is more NON fiction than people really know.	\\"The Effects of Light\\" is a daring look into the world of photography today.  A story of the deep love between motherless sisters and the bonds they hold with the adults in their lives.   <br />These two sisters, five years apart, begin at a very young age to model (mainly nude) for a good friend of their fathers.  Throughout the eight years of modeling, the girls grow older and into puberty and one into a woman, but for the other tragety hits before true adulthood.  <br />This is the base, and conflict of this compelling novel.  Was this tragedy caused by nude photographs of young girls?  That is for the reader to decide. <br />As for my Title, I say this is more of a Non fiction book because what many dont know is that the author of this book actually grew up with her younger sister being a nude model for a famous photographer.  Many of the acts of the photographer are directly from the real photographer (Jock Sturges).  The way the author describes the acts and thoughts of Myla (roughly based on herself) and Pru (roughly based on her little sister) are very accurate to how she really feels or felt being a figurative model under the age of 18.   <br />I think that this is a very important book for all art critics and anyone who disagrees with the work of Jock Sturges to read.  Although, much of this book is fiction (ie. death), you will get to hear the side of these models from their point of view, not the ones who trash these photographs. <br />I jumped to the bookstore when this book came out.  Jock Sturges is not only my favorite photographer, but a teacher of mine, and Bthe author shows that these young models are given the choice of getting in front of the camera not forced. <br />Aside from all that, this is a great book that needs to be read.	2005-05-13
US	33326207	R2R7V5AOF3L23C	1858941369	546589276	Natural Beauty: Farber Nudes	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A close look into the world of natural beauty	Robert Farber is by far one of the most well known photographers of nudes and fashion.  One can not mistake his work, his soft style with a mix of hard grain. <br />This book is a large collection of his work in nude photography throughout his years in photography.  Each plate in this book has its own feel and meaning, drawing the viewer into his work even more.  It is no wonder that Farbers works are displayed in permanent collections around the world.   <br />The book is beautifully published on thick warm toned paper, which is perfect for displaying his work, do to the fact that these reproductions are about as close as you can get to the real thing.   <br />The book does not display just nudes either.  Scattered throughout the book are chrome shots of landscapes and portraits of flowers as well, hence the name \\"Natural Beauty\\".  Every page in this book is a wonder.  Once you get to the back, a small index of each photo is displayed with text by Farber on how he went about making each and every photo in the book.  This is great because you really get to see how he goes about his creative process. <br />This is a great coffee table Monograph of beautiful photographs that cannot be passed up.  This is a very important monograph that all photographers and collectors alike should have.  Not many photographers are able to mimic Farbers style, other than the legend David Hamilton and the newcomer Richard Murrian, which makes the works in the book stand out like no other.	2005-01-27
US	33326207	R1ZVDX1EK5TK6J	1932234063	580737068	Spiral  ('Ring' series, Book 2)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A great thriller, but.... a bit far fetched.	I have to admit that this story was written very well in the form of a sequel and a stand alone novel.  The author wanted a reason to carry on the story he left at the end of \\"Ring\\", but I can see where things could get a bit sticky.  Therefore, this book is supposed to be a stand alone novel that will keep \\"Ring\\" fans happy. <br />Starting the story out with the autopsy of the character who died at the end of the first novel brings readers right in, but soon after things seem to get a bit far fetched.  How?  Well, the author takes horror to a scientific level, almost Michael Crichton like, an tries to keep us on our toes at the same time.  I do think it works, but just the keeping us on our toes part, the \\"horror\\" gets lost pretty early on in the book. <br />I think that you have to look at this book in one of two ways to make your decision on whether you like it or not.  First, do you want to look at it as a sequel or second, as stand alone novel.   <br />Although I read the first book and loved it, I dont think that it succedes as a good sequel, even though main characters return, even the evil girl Sadoko, or in the U.S. named Samara.  As a stand alone novel though, I find it great.  I mean, this is fiction people, not reality, its supposed to be far fetched.   <br />I enjoyed this book very much as a thriller, not a horror, and honestly believe that both \\"Ring\\" fans and newcomers will enjoy this read.  I cant wait for the third installment entitled \\"Loop\\".  Have a fun read.	2004-12-26
US	33326207	RFWQIWC9G1VPJ	3899851609	472597371	Naked	Books	5	33	37	N	N	The best collection of Nudes on the market	This book is a knockout.  Its great.  In this collection we are given a beautiful look at hundreds of nudes from some of the best photographers in the world along with some unknown, but soon to be known photographers.  The printing is great, and the size of the book (roughly 8x12) gives us a great look at detail in the photos.  The price is great as well.  You really cant go wrong with picking up this book.   <br />Without any real, fetish/voyer work in it, we are left with pure fine art and erotic nudes from cover to cover.  I highly recommend this title to all lovers of nude photography.	2004-10-22
US	33326207	R1WKUFF3E06U89	081182957X	217956133	Nerve: The New Nude	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A Great collection of Nudes	This is a great book.  Why?  A few reasons.  First off, it is wonderfully published.  A good hardback with great quality photograph reproductions.  Second, The photographers.  This book packs in nudes from fairly famous photographers that get passed by a lot.  Each photographer gets roughly three pages of space to have a few photographs, and most of them are great.  I am especially moved by the increadible, previously unpublished, waist up portraits of Peter Gorman (naked rooms, naked in apartment 7).  Before the photographs are shown, you get a brief biography of the photographer and how he/she goes about their creative process.  Its quite interesting to see what motivates some of these guys.  I highly suggest this book to any collector of nude/erotic photography.  You will be pleased.	2004-10-22
US	33326207	R19CSULWC4R9WT	0786916575	501237295	Servant of the Shard (Forgotten Realms:  Paths of Darkness, Book 3)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A surprisingly fun read.	I was a bit shy picking this book up at first.  Mainly because I didn't know if I really wanted to read a book that didn't follow Drizzt or any of his companions.  Well, I'm glad I did pick it up.  It was a change of pace.   <br />Not only do we follow two of Drizzt's biggest enimies, but we get deep inside of them, learning about their thoughts and feelings.  Throughout all of the Drizzt books, we look at these characters as cold blooded, evil killers with no hearts at all.  Now we find out that they are still exactly what we thought they were, but we also find out that these characters have a little good in them as well.   <br />This book, as well as the previous \\"Spine of the World\\" was a big leap for Salvatore.  A lot of loyal fans were not very happy that he left Drizzt out of these books.  But hear this.  Don't be upset.  This is still Salvatore's classic writing, and we still follow friends and foes of Drizzt alike.  Don't skip this book.  You will surly regret it.	2004-10-17
US	33326207	RIIKXLCA1VGXI	1931788472	29977499	Jock Sturges: Notes	Books	5	22	23	N	N	The BEST Sturges Book Yet	This is by far, the best Jock Sturges book to date.  He once again has joined up with the Aperture Foundation for another monograph experience.  But this book is a little bit different.  Rather than a forward, followed by roughly seventy photographs, like his older titles, we look into the making of these photos.  Which to me was an experience in itself.   <br />For the first part of this book, we get the start of what turns out to be a short autobiography of Sturges, that appears randomly through the book.  And then we get several polaroids and low megapixil camera images of many models we have grown to love.  As you look at these very unprofessional images, burn them into your head and remember what they look like, because you will be seeing very professional images much like them later in the book. <br />The Second half of the book is a normal collection of photos that we see in all of Sturges' books.  The beautiful duotone images of the naturist communities of France and California.  It is here that you will start to see images you think you've seen before, but don't know where.  Then you turn to the first part again, and realize that all the random polaroid snapshots have been turned into beautiful large format images.  This is what is amazing.  Sturges doesn't shoot large format like crazy.  He shoots poloroids like crazy, and collects them all summer.  Towards the end of the summer, she goes through them, and finds \\"accidental\\" poses and turns them into real art.  Amazing. <br />Part Three of the book is a lot of commentary from the models themselves, even the loved Misty-Dawn Johnson.  It is here that we get their view of Sturges and his works, and what they think of modeling with them and how it was growing up through the lens of his camera. <br />This book is incredible, and any fan of Sturges' works need to pick this up.  Not since Ansel Adams' \\"The Making of Photographs\\" have we gotten a look into a masters eye like this.  Again, only one word is needed.Amazing.	2004-10-17
US	33326207	R21O4ODWFDIET0	0715316338	595344045	Lee Frost's Simple Art of Black and White Photography: Easy Methods for Making Fine Art Prints	Books	5	38	38	N	N	The perfect book for beginners and pros alike	This is by far the best black and white photo technique book I have read.  I am a pro photographer and always keep a huge collection of how to books and monographs for looking up styles and new ideas.<BR>Lee Frost is a very down to earth photographer that really takes what he loves to heart.  He preaches that it is not all the little technical things that people and teachers say you need to know that make good photographs, its your own imagination and creativity.  <BR>This is the perfect thing to say for a true artist.  Lee Frost gives us his own examples of basic photo techniques and then shows us how easy it is to make a beautiful fine art photograph with simple household products and a NON pro camera set up.  Of course, he does state that having good equipment will always help, but it is not always needed as so many say.<BR>Just think of the world famous photographer David Hamilton, who only used one 35mm camera, one lense, only natural light, and no filters.  It doesnt get much more basic than that, and he is bowed down to by thousands.<BR>Lee Frost has the same idea, and it is very asuring knowing that you dont need to go out and spend thousands to be a pro.<BR>Again, I believe that this is the best how to and reference guide on the market today.  Get it.	2004-05-25
US	33326207	R1XGUBROJ8UTUM	3936761132	957055597	Nudes: Indexxi	Books	4	56	60	N	N	A great collection of nudes from photographys best.	I came across this little book during one of my frequent trips to the photo section of my local Borders and had to pick it up.  Mainly due to is very small size.<BR>I was soon trapped flipping through the hundreds and hundreds of pages of beautiful nude photographs, unable to put the book down.<BR>The only text in this book is a bit at the beginning and end and then the name of each photographer before you see their work.  Thats it.  No rambling text, just great nude photos.  <BR>This collection feature many of the worlds best nude photographers and is broken down into three sections.  Female nudes, Male nudes, and couple nudes.  It really cant get much more simple that that.<BR>The book is printed on good gloss heavyweight paper, as you would expect to find in photo monographs and has a sturdy hardback.<BR>Although a great collection of photos and printed well, I am a bit disappointed in the book size.  It only measures about 3inches by 3inches, and because of the large number of photos inside, the weight of the book tends to deteriorate the binding fast if viewed a lot.  Also, I have found it hard to find a good place for this tiny book on my shelf.  It just doesnt fit in very well.  But becuase the book is so good and the downfalls are few, I only took one star.  <BR>I still feel that all nude photography fans should purchase this book for their collection at its very cheap price.	2004-05-25
US	33326207	R34YAXQEZBK7LV	0867195525	749103122	Orgasm XL	Books	5	17	20	N	N	Nope, not Porn, But ART.	Thats right, Art.  A lot of people have a very hard time seperating porn and art, but for me, this book, as well as all of Ward books, was an easy decision.  This is Art.  Plain and simple.  <BR>With art and photography taking a huge turn these days in the area of erotica, it is very difficult to come up with something new and powerful.  I know this because I am a photographer myself.  Tony Ward has found a way to take extremely graphic erotica and turn it into beauty with his disturbingly grainy photographs.<BR>Using very high contrast film, then enlarging, you are able to see every single little grain in Wards work, making this a Wow experience.  <BR>I will warn all readers though.  This book is not for the squimish.  If you are offended by depictions of homosexual sex, or any graphic sex acts, then this book is not for you.  On the other hand, if you are looking for a great art monograph with extreme erotica, get this book.  It is incredible.	2004-05-25
US	33326207	ROFC3L04455FT	0395489318	669379389	The Fellowship of the Ring: Being the First Part of The Lord of the Rings	Books	5	2	4	N	N	The start of the greatest epic of our time	For the last few years, critics and fans have raved over the new movie trilogy of Tolkien's &quot;The Lord of the Rings&quot;, but more than half of those people have not picked up the novels that started it all.<br />The first in the series is &quot;The Fellowship of the Ring&quot; and intoduces us to the cast of characters that we have all grown to love.<br />This book starts by giving us an in depth history of hobbits and their laid back ways of life and a small history of Middle Earth as well, getting us prepared for the journey not only ahead of the charachters, but ahead of us as well.<br />For fans of the movie, you are likely not going to be disappointed.  The movie follows this book well, but as always, this epic novel is much better than any flick.  We get much more personal with the characters and get more in depth conversations and scenes.<br />The book is fairly long with small fonts and lengthy chapters, but the go by fast, due to the wonderful way of Tolkien tells us this story.<br />For all that have not read this book for school because they had to, or just for fun, you need to.  This book is a masterpiece in literature and it is only the begining of a long journey.	2004-05-25
US	33326207	R2FWJQ7QGCY74L	0817433155	767964279	The Art of Nude Photography	Books	5	11	12	N	N	A knockout, plain and simple	Not many people know the name Pascal Baetens.  But they will in a very short time.  This photographer is fast on his way to making a huge dent in the world of nude photography.  <BR>This is his second monograph, depicting several models in wonderful poses with beautiful settings and lighting.  Baetens has a little bit of everything with this series.  Usually when you look at a monograph of an artists work, there is a main theme that sticks throughout the book, ie. erotica, figure studies, etc., But Baetens mixes it up, showing his talent of photographing the nude in all ways.<BR>The figure studies in this book are incredible.  Close, nicely shadowed and extremely fine grained.  Then his location shots, of his models in the woods, on the road, and in corn fields take you away.  He is able to shoot on location and make the focus of the photograph not just on the models, but on the landscapes around them.<BR>This is a book that needs to be purchased by any lover of nude photography, or just photography in general.  These photographs are beautiful and should be in all collections.	2004-03-05
US	33326207	R1XXE97P2JYBBO	0451169522	916592852	Misery	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A great thrill ride	Stepehen King had a way of making us terrified whether he is writing a horror story, a thriller, or even a love story.  And MISERY is no exception.  When writing this book, King took a break from the blood and guts of his horror novels and gave us a thriller.  A thriller that made me as nervous as some of his freakiest to date.<BR>At least once in every persons life, we wonder what it would be like to be trapped.  Held prisoner by someone else, and not able to do anything about it.  This is a terrifying nightmare that King brings to us with this book.<BR>Annie Wilkes is as psycho as they come.  A deranged murderous ex-nurse living deep in the mountains of Colorodo.  When her favorite author crashes his car near her home on his way to get his manuscript reviewed, She finds his crippled body barely alive and takes him home. The terror begins.<BR>At first you want to believe that Annie is a good person, helping a crash victim back to health.  But why did she not call 9-1-1?  Why was Paul still in her home when he awoke, two weeks later?  <BR>As the story progresses Paul Sheldon is put to the test.  A test that will find how mentally stable a perfectly normal person can be after having body parts amputated with an ax, having to drink dishsoap water, and getting beaten physically and mentally.<BR>Again, although this is a change in pace for King, he still hits his mark.  I was purly terrified and as nervous as Paul Sheldon every time King entered Annie into the story again.<BR>Another perfect story by Stephen King.	2004-02-02
US	33326207	RWUD8N0NH26WP	0802136648	209222924	Suicide Blonde	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Not bad	This book wasnt too bad.  Although I have to admit, I hadnt the slightest clue as to what it was about when I picked it up.  I just saw the great cover and had to read it.  I was actually surprised as to how much I enjoyed it. <BR>Although the book was a bit short and lacked details in what I found to be crucial areas, it was still able to keep me reading.  I began this journey with the main character, Jessie, and had to see how it ended.<BR>Soon after begining the book, you realize that Jessie, a young beautiful girl, is confused and feels lost.  She needs to find herself and explore her options.  This leads us to jobs as a prostitute and so called friends that we never thought she would meet.<BR>But this book goes much much deeper than a girl that is trying to find herself.  But I found it to be a love story.  A story in which we have all experienced.  When Jessie starts to lose trust and feeling in her longterm relationship with her boyfriend, Bell, she leaves.  Through advice and new flings, she finds herself trapped, and eventually finding what it is she wants. <BR>SUICIDE BLONDE was a good, quick read.  I only gave it three stars because I think it needed more history involved in it.  You are left without enought information about many of the characters which is frusterating.  Other that this minor detail, this book is a fun, and extremely erotic tale of a girl trying to find her place in the world.	2004-01-31
US	33326207	R3KEL2HGU27PHS	0679735771	92932803	American Psycho	Books	5	2	3	N	N	An IMPORTANT, very underrated novel.	AMERICAN PSYCHO is easily the most important novel I have ever read.  Ellis takes us deep into the heart of a serial killer, walking us with him day by day through is privledged life.  By day, Patrick Bateman (older brother of THE RULES OF ATTRACTION's Sean Bateman) is a twenty six year old Wall Street broker with more money than he knows what to do with.  He has many friends, and even more flings, and lives a life many only dream about.  By night, he lusts for blood, devouring victims, raping, killing, and eating them, only to get ready for the next day of eating in expensive resturaunts, picking new suits to wear and worrying about what kind of gel he will put in his hair.<BR>What makes this novel so incredible is the satire.  Ellis writes this novel in the point of view of Bateman.  We know that he is sick in the head because of what he does, but Ellis wants us to understand that just Bateman's everyday life and his thoughts, murderous or not, are sick.  Bateman does not live a normal life, even for the rich.  All he cares about is fitting in.  Eating where he will be seen, and wearing what will turn heads.  His whole life revolves around being the perfect person.  No person should be like this, and it is Batemans lust for being accepeted that feeds his homicidal behavior.<BR>Many would like to think of this book as a comedy, but that is another area that the satire comes in.  Although we may end up laughing outloud at least twenty to thirty times in this novel, it is not meant to be funny.  We really laughing at Batemans insanity, and his thoughts that we know are not normal, but he thinks are.<BR>The murder scenes are bloody, and very detailed, which may disturb the squimish.  Batemans thoughts throughout these scenes are even more disturbing.  His lust for whores and as he puts it in the book \\"hardbodies\\", covered with blood and guts caused much rage with protesters and to this day many book stores will not carry this book.  But if we can look by the ideas that this book is \\"terrible\\" and \\"disgusting\\" and \\"trash\\", it is obvious that this is easily the most detailed and accurated book about the life of a (although fictional) serial killer every written.<BR>I give Bret Easton Ellis applause for bringing the public this Literary Masterpiece.	2004-01-25
US	33326207	R2ON5TCGLA4D8E	0679743243	852717862	The Informers	Books	5	0	1	N	N	A novel broken up into short stories.... Perfect!	For his fourth book, Ellis once again was able to shock us with his stories of the young and rich in L.A.  But this time, with \\"The Informers\\"  Ellis took a different route to grip us with.  Instead of writing a full novel, we get thirteen short stories of several characters that are introduced in the first two chapters, either by being in that chapter, or being a name in passing.<BR>As in his other stories, Ellis brings in names and characters that have been used in other of his works, making all of his books intertwined in small ways.  I found this book to read a lot more like \\"Less Than Zero\\" than his other works, mainly because the characters go to the same schools and know each other, and are the same age.  <BR>The are three main charachters that the short stories are mainly based around and the shorts in this book range over a time period of roughly two to three years, putting you before and after major events.  <BR>This book is something only Ellis could achieve.  Taking normal lives of teens and adults alike and showing us their rich, corrupt and disappointing lives.  From divorce, to random sex with lovers and friends, to the mind of a boy who believes he is a vampire.  <BR>This is another perfect piece of literature that will no doubt become another Ellis classic.	2004-01-04
US	33326207	RCPJGVIZYUV69	0679781498	693345954	Less Than Zero	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A coming of age story that won't let go	Bret Easton Ellis' first novel tells the story of Clay, an extremely rich eighteen year old college kid home for the holidays in L.A.<BR>Through the first person, we follow Clay over two weeks into parties, bedrooms and crack houses.  This is a story of how the young and rich live their lives and it is disgusting.  The words in this book disturbed me, making me realize what some people are like in this world when they have to much power at a young age.  In one scene Clay goes to a friends house to find a party and the teen age kids have a twelve year old girl tied to the bed.  The are shooting heroin into her and take turns raping her, nobody seems to care other than Clay.  When he asks why they are doing this to the poor girl, the answer he gets is \\"Because I can\\". <BR>But this novel isn't just about the wreckless lives of rich teens, but how Clay comes home from a normal college live and slowly realized that he doesnt want to be like this anymore.  <BR>This novel is extremely gripping and not for the squimish.  It grabs you, and shakes you, showing you the lives some live when they have to much money and nothing to do.<BR>To make a quote from the movie box that hits this story on the spot:  \\"A compelling story of kids that started out with everything and are about to wind up with Less than Zero.\\"	2003-11-16
US	33326207	RCWJNXVBJIYKM	0449219631	247826792	Jaws	Books	3	3	3	N	N	A decent novel, but a better movie	Jaws wasn't to bad of a book. It is obvious that Benchley spent tons of time researching this subject and it is all here for us to read.  Very well written.  But for people that love the movie, the book is a major dissappointment.  The similarities are few between the two and the book is fairly short. <BR>I found that most of JAWS is mor about the inner struggle of the town Amity than the shark itself.  The book is broken up into three parts.  The first part is about how the shark comes around and starts to eat innocent people. During this time, you will get good visuals that you remember from the movie,  But then part two (which is most of the book) is almost nothing about the shark and more about the affair between Ellen Brody and Matt Hooper (not in the movie).  This drags on for what seems like forever, and all you really want to do is get to more exciting shark attacks.  Part three is about Hooper, Brody, and Quint trying to catch the shark, but it is cut very short.  There is literally only one part of the fight that was put in the movie, and that was the famous sceane of Brody throwing fish in the water when the shark appears two feet from him.<BR><BR>Im not saying that this book is no good, but I do think that it could be better.  Benchley is a wonderful writer and when the exciting parts do come along, they are great, but the book just needs more of them.  So if you are in the mood to have a read that mirrors the movie, look elswhere, because you will not find it here.	2003-11-09
US	33326207	R3JJ7EJW96JRFE	0345353145	340762456	Sphere	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Crichton takes us into the deep	Michael Cricton is to Sci-Fi/Techno Thrillers as Stephen King is to Horror.  I could just leave this review at that and people would buy this book.  This was actually the last Crichton book i have read of his, and I now wonder why I read all of his others and left this one for last?<BR>He brought dinosaurs to life for us, introduced us to hand-talking apes, and we have battled in the fourteenth century with him, but never did I imagine that he could take me two thousand feet underwater and have me gasping for air.  The story is by far one of his best.  I agree with one reviewer by saying no movie could do this epic any justice.  <BR>The story alone is awesome.  A crew of scientists sent to the deep by the Navy to investigate a plane crash that turns out to be an evolved spacecraft from the future, but is really over three hundred years old.  Crichton makes you interested and glues you to the pages as the characters explore this ship, then plunge into absolute terror.<BR>Don't do as I did and leave this book of his for last, pick it up ASAP and jump into it.  The four-hundred pages with breeze by in a matter of hours.	2003-11-02
US	33326207	R1WKWLSN3ACZFP	0893815187	780785782	Immediate Family	Books	5	3	4	N	N	It takes you into the past	This book is simply breathtaking.  I honestly look through this book two or three times a week and it never gets old.  The photographs are very truthful, which make them all the more great to look at.  Every photo taken by Mann pictures one or all of her children playing and being what we all were once... children.  When I look at this masterpiece I am immediatly blasted into the past, remembering how I would do all the same things as the Mann children are pictured doing.  From laying around naked in the sun, to swimming in the creek, to even cutting my head open and having to get stitches.  Mann gets all of this on film, and her children will love her all the more for her doing this for them when they are older.  This book is perfect for your coffee table, and I almost always find that it brings up group remanicing when others start looking through it.  Do not miss out on this book for you collection.  It is wonderful.	2003-09-27
US	33326207	R8KIOOOG1TRGM	0553263226	366818317	The Bourne Supremacy (Bourne Trilogy, Book 2)	Books	3	27	28	N	N	Not as good as &quot;The Bourne Identity&quot;	Ludlum had a heck of a lot to live up to when he decided to bring Jason Bourne back into action.  I mean, it is pretty hard to top a book as thrilling and fun as &quot;The Bourne Identity&quot;.  Unfortunatly, I have to say that I feel he fell short of living up to all he created.  <BR>This book was good.  I will say that much.  I would not pass it by if you have read the first in the series, but Ludlum seemed to drag on way to much making a lot of the book a little dull.  The beginning grabs you, and wont let go for a good 200 pages, but then things get slow, and I actually found myself wanting to stop reading.  That is not like me at all.  It is also the reason this book took me almost 3 months to read, between giving it a break for faster paced novels and me rather sleeping than staying up to read it.  <BR>After struggling through the middle 200 pages, I got hooked again, and ended up reading the rest of the book in a matter of days.  I could not put it down.  <BR>So, I guess I can say that it is not a total flop, and I am still planning on reading the third in the Bourne series, but I only gave it three stars because of the slow middle.  <BR>You should at least pick this book up and read it for the awesome beginning and ending 200 pages.	2003-09-03
US	33326207	R95R96R453IT6	1854103040	748259623	The Age of Innocence	Books	5	14	17	N	N	Another knockout album by the best nude photographer ever	David Hamilton has done it again.  This is by far my favorite album of his to date.  Once again, this album is filled with absolutly beautiful soft focused images of the changing female body.  <BR>Probably my favorite part of this book is that most of it is in color which is different from \\"25 years\\".  The pastels used in all the photos again bring out the feeling of innocence with these young beauties that Hamilton loves so much.<BR>This book is published by the same company that did \\"25 years\\" so the two books go great with each other.  This one is a little bit thinner which is a little downfall because you fall in love with Hamiltons photographs so easy that you dont want to stop browsing through them.  <BR>Although some people may find the work in this book and Hamiltons other books a little disturbing, I have yet to find one person that has found his works bad.  Because of this, I am happy to display this on my coffee table for all visitors of all ages to look through.<br />Ladies and Gentlemen, Dont miss this book.  Hamilton is getting older now, and soon these books will be very hard to get, and very very expensive.  Even though 50 dollars seems steep, suck it up and fork it out for this or any of his other works.  You will not regret it.	2003-07-04
US	33326207	R11FJDWU813U7Z	0060094850	92625729	The Torn Skirt	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A look into the stress, and torture of coming to age	Sara Shaw is a normal sixteen year old girl with normal problems that teens go through.  Thoughts of sex, drugs, and life to come.  But these thoughts to Sara take a step out of her mind and into reality.<BR>\\"The Torn Skirt\\" is a look into the world of a girl that is deep down inside a normal girl, that is disturbed easily, letting the reality of being a teen tear her live in two.  <BR>When her loving \\"sex-addict hippie\\" father finds Sara masterbating he loses all he thought he had for her.  After deciding that he cant handle the stress of her \\"growing up\\", he leaves her on her own and moves away.  Now with Sara own her own, she falls into the allys and rooftops of her town with the whores and heroin addicts in the search for the girl in the torn skirt, the girl Sara thinks is wonderful and free.<BR>Saras search put her all over her town as if it was huge city.  Places shes never been and never known.  <BR>This book is so vivid and real.  Sara is the character that we all could have been as teens.  We all though bad thoughts and hate thoughts at times, only she turns these thoughts into reality, which will eventually bring trouble and a downfall.<BR>Don't miss this incredible coming of age read.	2003-05-24
US	33326207	R3KDIXS0UYPKSO	8408021524	236768166	Braveheart (Spanish Edition)	Books	4	13	14	N	N	Not the best history lesson, but an incredible story	As most people, I read this book after the movie came out.  I am a medival studies major and am intrigued by the story of William Wallace.  This book was great.  But there is much you need to know before you pick it up, mainly whether you are looking for a history lesson, or just a good read.<BR>The story of Wallace is incredible.  One man, against all odds, fighting for what he believes in.  Much of this book is fiction.  The author has created a hard, semi-satisfying life for Wallace, and has created his own reasons for William Wallace to wage war agains Edward I (Longshanks).  But the truth is, that we really dont know why Wallace waged war in the first place.  The battles were very well researched and the author was able to tell them acuratly and well, making you feel as if you are on the battlefield on Wallace's side.<BR>Many people had a hard time with this novel, and gave it poor reviews, but if they give this book a poor review, then they should give all historical fiction bad reviews.  It is impossible for an author to know the complete lives of a historical character, even with extensive research.  The author, Randall Wallace, did a wonderful job.<BR>I only have a few small complaints that I think could have been touched up on, and can throw many historian hopfulls off.  The first being that it is said Longhanks dies soon after Wallaces death, but in truth, longshanks reigned for almost 3 years after Wallaces death.  Another would be the affair between William Wallace and Princess Isebella.  The author moved the marriage of Prince Edward and Isebella of France up a few years.  They were not even married until years after Wallaces death, which makes the affair fiction.<BR>As I stated at the beginning of this review, this is a wonderful book.  A great story of courage, love, and a passion for your country that will never die, But if you are looking for a book about William Wallace that is based mainly on historical facts, you will not find it here.<BR>This book is for any fan of the middle ages.  I suggest putting aside all the bad reviews for sad reasons, and pick up a copy of this wherever you can find it.	2003-05-11
US	33326207	R104RVVVPYIUZP	1932234004	75828016	Ring	Books	4	8	11	N	N	A great thriller	I am happy to see that some people agree with me, and have given this book good reviews.  This was an incredible book.  Although not very scary, it's a great thriller.<BR>The book does not follow the movies very closely, other than the fact that it has to do with a video tape that kills people.  The characters are different than the movies and much of the story goes in a very different direction than the movies.  But enough comparing.<BR>\\"Ring\\"  is the story of Asakawa, a reporter, who's neice dies a strange death, on the same night and time as her friends do.  Asakawa is determined to find out how their strange deaths occured.  His research brings him to a cabin high in the mountains of Japan only to find a video tape with a terrible scenes shown and a message at the end saying \\"you will die in one week unless.....\\"  then the tape cuts off.<BR>Throughout the book Asakawa teams up with his best friend Ryuji to find the meaning behind the tape.  This book is a major page turner.  Plus for those of you that liked the movies, this book gives more details on where the video came from and what exactly it is.  <BR>Koji Suzuki really is the \\"Stephen King\\" of Japan.  And \\"Ring\\" is only the first book in a trillogy.  I really hope we get blessed by having the other two books published here as well.  Don't miss out on this suspenssful, thrilling novel.	2003-05-02
US	33326207	R2IS83TL52JOEH	0451156609	803978188	The Tommyknockers	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Return of the Body-Snatchers	Stephen King has found more ways than I can count, on how to scare the living hell out of anybody that opens the pages of his books.  \\"The Tommyknockers\\" is no exception whatsoever.  King took on the extremely difficult job of writing about alien invasions and body snatching, and finished smelling like roses.  I never thought that I would be so disturbed by a subject so commonly written about.  This book scared me stupid.<BR>Although a bit on the long side, 748 pages, every single word has meaning to it.  King's characterization is incredible.  You get to know every single character that he names on a personal level, understanding exactly what that person is thinking and what he is trying to achieve.  <BR>Part one of the book is probably the most chilling.  This is when we are introduced to the two main characters of the novel, best friends Bobbi and Gard.  Friends to the end..... right?  It is in this first part of the book that the terror and the \\"becoming\\" begins.<BR>Part two of the book introduces us to the rest of the small town of Haven, Maine.  The changing and \\"becoming\\" of the innocent country folk living up their summer.  Although this part seems to drag on a little bit, each person in the town changes in a different way that makes you keep reading just to see everybody has their different way of \\"becoming\\". <BR>Part three, the last part of the book is when things go crazy in Haven.  This is when the terror begins.  I was able to read the 300 plus pages of this last part in one afternoon only taking breaks to eat and use the bathroom.  That is how good King has written this novel.  I can say that by far this is in my top 10 favorite books by King.<BR>Another great thing about this book is the small things he writes about connecting this book to a few of his other novels.  For example:  in one part a character drives through Derry, Maine and believes he is seeing things when he swears he sees a clown with white gloves in the sewer with ballons.  Another ishow he talks about a killer rabid dog that killed several people in a small Maine town.<BR>The made for TV movie based on this book does no justice to the words in these pages.  Dont judge this book by a bad TV movie. <BR>This book is a King classic.  Although on the long side, dont pass it up, you will be missing perfect vintage Stephen King	2003-04-20
US	33326207	RD7LEK6JNX6W	3936709017	527279773	Panties	Books	4	40	42	N	N	Normal Panties on Normal Girls	I sat and thought for a while about how I felt about this book. It is different, I should say that first.  The more I looked at the book the more I liked it.  The reviews dont lie at all. These are not expensive model panties, but the panties that almost all girls/woman where everyday. No thongs or G-strings, just normal panties. The models are not special at all.  Not all of the models are beautiful models that you would see in magazines, but the woman you pass on the street everyday.  The range of models is large. From large to small, and almost none have makeup. I suppose that this book is a made a bit for everyone. Its not [explicit], yet not boring. Although, many of the pictures are of just girls standing there for the camera, posing, like a portrait. There are many vaginas in the book. Shaved, unshaved, close, and far. If you are looking for a book with panties as the main focal point, you will most likely not like this book. Half of the panties in the book are on the floor or around the models knees and ankles.  The photography is so so.  I kind of wish the lighting of the photos as a little more erotic, but instead it is very well lighted, as you would see in a regular photoshoot for a magazine.  If you are looking for a book of normal girls lounging in their homes, doing homework, on the computer, watching movies, reading, you will not find it here.  All and all I think that this book is a large achievment.  We get a view of everyday woman in their panties, not the girls or panties you will see in the Victorias Secret catalog.  I find this a great edition to any photography lovers collection or a great editon to any coffee table.	2003-04-07
US	33326207	R13EK9J2HISIHG	3936709025	357575537	Naked Rooms	Books	4	67	72	N	N	[a] masterpiece	This book is really really good.  I didn't know what to think when I got it in the mail.  It was my first Gorman experience.  First off, these are the woman that we see everyday of our lives.  The woman that walk past us on the street.  They are all in private living situations.  The privace of their own homes, or so it seems.  Some of the models are clothed, some not, some half undressed, but what is nice is they are all very very different.  There are unattractive, very attractive models and models of all races.  <br />Gorman captures these woman in the situations that we all go though during the week.  Photos of woman in the shower, eating, sitting, even masterbating.  This is a very [explicit] book.  Period.  I loved it.  After buying this book, I am going off to get his first book \\"Naked in Apartment 7\\".<br />The only flaw I found in this book was its size.  It is about the size of a trade paperback book.  Pretty small.  So some of the pictures you have to strain to see, and some that take up two pages, you will find the model right smack in the crease of the book, ruining the picture.  Other than that small complaint I have, I loved the book.  Add this to you collection.	2003-04-07
US	33326207	R29D85VP0WHRYL	0345383249	760372128	Eaters of the Dead: The Manuscript of Ibn Fadlan, Relating His Experiences With the Northmen in A.D. 922	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Crichton the Historian!!!!	As a student in Medieval Studies and history, this is the Crichton that I love the most.  The Historian Crichton.  If you enjoyed the epic of Beowulf, then you will rave over Eaters of the Dead.  This is based on a true story.  <BR>We follow an Arab messenger traveling north from the middle east on a mission.  Along the journey, he stops to stay with some northman and gets plunged into an incredible journey.  The messanger starts to write about his travels and now, hundreds of years later, Crichton translates them for us.<BR>The northman are summoned to a distant land to help a fellow king in a time where his people are being killed by \\"mist monsters\\".  The northman are ready to go, when they say they need a thirteenth warrior that is not of their own land.  That warrior is the Arab.<BR>The way the story is told is incredible, because we get it in a first person point of view.  You can feel the action and feel the battles as if you were fighting them yourself. But this is more than just a story, but a history lesson as well.  The book gives us loads of info on the vikings and the ways of cannibalistic tribes which gives us a bit of a heads up leading into the story. <BR>Crichton does a hell of a translating job, and tells this story wonderfully.  Although this story is not from Crichtons own head, dont pass it up.  This is a perfect piece of fiction/non-fiction.	2003-04-01
US	33326207	R1N9KQ8GMDN1UJ	0312187149	310643527	Enemy of God (The Arthur Books #2)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Get twisted farther into Arthurian....... History?	The Warlord Trillogy is by far the best Arthur novels that I have ever read.  Cornwell is a perfect storyteller and historian.  In this second novel of Arthur we get plunged deeper into the legend that we all know, but in a very different way.  This trillogy is not about magic, dragons and romance, but we see Arthur in a REAL dark ages setting.  Cornwell makes this story as if it were really recorded down in history.  Merlin, is a druid, not a wizard, he has no magic, though he may think he does.  Arthur is not a King, but a Warlord, with a sword that is only said to be magic, but with no proof of it.<br />These changes make Arthur so much more believible.  I personally, as a Medieval studies Major, believe in Arthur, but we have to understand what he was like without the stories we all grew up on.  Cornwell has done just that.  The most real Arthur and companions you will ever read about.<br />In Enemy of God, we learn more about the middle of the legends we all know.  Arthur still prepairs the throne for the to be king Mordred, while Merlin and Nimue search for the Gold Cauldren in British history.  Throughout the story we find new twists to old legends in believable situations and by the end of this second book we are just waiting for the third to pick up.<br />Kudos for Cornwell.  This is a wonderful book.  A must have for any fan of Arthur.	2003-04-01
US	33326207	R3APNA2DWTAPTT	0393039765	311054036	Fight Club	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Scum of the Earth	Fight Club isn't just a novel.  It is a look into our world, the world that are our friends, co workers, lovers, cab drivers, etc.  This book shows you a different view of this world.  The view is that everyone is scum, and we give up to easy.  Tyler Durden takes these scum and makes them proud to be alive.  Gives them something to live for other than a minumum wage 9-5 job.  <br />This book is incredible.  Its a book that should stand out though all ages in its type.  A story of how one man loses it all, maybe even his sanity, thats for you to decide, and makes life the way he wants it, and helps people think the same way.<br />Could this book be a Bible?  I wouldn't doubt that many that read this book are so taken aback from it that they may follow the rules of Fight Club and Project Mayham themselves.  Dont let this incredible book sit on the shelf in a bookstore.  Go and get a copy now.	2003-03-18
US	33326207	R2U6QU0QX3EC5L	067978148X	645048612	The Rules of Attraction	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Perfect emotion	Bret Easton Ellis has created a masterpiece in literature with this book.  It is perfect.  Driving us deep into the lives of three college students living out there lives as young adults and caught in a love triangle.  <BR>The chapters are all written in the first person point of view and by a different characters.  It reads in cycles, for instance, chapter one: Sean, chapter two: Lauren, chapter three: Paul etc. and each is written like a journal entry, letting you know each characters deep thoughts on life.  Yes, we all know Ellis' style.<BR>Drugs, sex, alcohol, and more sex bring us back to college and young life, bringing back memories of young love and pain.  This is not a book for the feminist type or anyone that is offended by any of the three things above.  Ellis was a young man when this book was written, giving the book a very real feel. His second book, written soon after LESS THAN ZERO, but there is no sophmore slump here, we are drawn into it faster than his first book and you get gripped even tighter.<BR>Because of Ellis being young when this book was writen helps the writing a lot because he was roughly the age of his characters This book actually takes place at the same college that the main character of LESS THAN ZERO goes to, and he makes an apperance or two as well. We tread through parties, cafes and dorm rooms throughout most of the book.<BR>To me, I find this work of Ellis' to be the center of all his other works.  Why?  because almost all of his other novels wrap around the characters of \\"Rules\\" is some way. <BR>If you havent seen the movie yet, hold off until you read this first, you will get a much better grip of it. <BR>This book is a Masterpiece, plain and simple.  You will not put it down.	2003-03-14
US	33326207	R1XMOFW2LGX762	0140071083	514925319	The Haunting of Hill House	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Truly terrifying	I saw the movie a few years back, but I dont remember much of it.  But I happened to come across the novel in the library and couldnt help picking it up.  Needless to say, I had a few sleepless nights.<br />Jackson really terrifies us with this novel.  It is short, and strait to the point.  Although there is not much in the book that is gross or jump out scary, it is the thought of being in Hill house that scares you.  It brings back memories of being a kid again and going into \\"Haunted Houses\\" that all the other kids talked about.  We would scream and run out because we thought we heard something, or saw something, but Jackson makes this real for us, making those noises and visions real.<br />The ending is a bit dull, leaving you a little hanging.  But the way Jackson describes the character Elenore, and her struggles in life, the struggles and hardships she brings to Hill House makes you wonder if people like Elenore feed the house.  I think that Jackson wants us to ask these questions in our head.  <br />This is a novel you dont want to read before bed.  I was truly scared.  If you love horror stories, you will love \\"The Haunting of Hill House\\".	2003-03-09
US	33326207	R1IRTQMF9HTJUG	0893815950	332084122	Radiant Identities	Books	5	29	30	N	N	Beautiful, Rare, Perfect Work	This book is beautiful.  All the works are done very well, showing the beauty of youth and family. I was first drawn to Sturges work after looking at photos of David Hamilton. His work is very contoversial. but I ask why?  Is a picture of a 13 year old girl shaving her legs in the shower so terrible?  The thing is, thats these photos are not about viewing young nude girls reaching puberty, but showing the beautiful changes that we have all gone though in life, men or woman.  The people that bash Sturges work are not looking at the photographs close enough.  If they did, they would realize that thoughout his albums, the photographs are of adolecents becoming adults. You will find the same model at the beginning of the book at age 8, and by the end of the book there are photos of her at age 16.  Get my point. Also I feel that there is a very strong feeling of family bonding in the work of Sturges.  So many of his pictures are of families on the beach and other places.  Most of them in the nude.  And I think that he wants to show how close these families are.  Most teens would freak if their parents saw them naked, but here we see how secure, happy, and close these families are with earch other. This is not trash, this is work that very very few people can do.  Sturges is very classy about his work.  No open legs (if so, it is not staged at all), and with his 8x10 camera, is also able to get beautiful wide angle shots that show more than a nude boy girl or family, but the beautiful beaches and skies that surround them.  Don't miss and of Sturges work.  Its not worth missing.  Open your mind to all forms of art.  Get this book.  You will rush to by the rest of his works including (the last day of summer, self-titled, and new work)	2003-03-08
US	33326207	R3MTN4GUE4E06K	0679723161	636015448	Lolita	Books	5	0	2	N	N	A masterpiece, plain and simple	It is hard for some people to accept this book for what it is.  Hard for people to accept the fact that this is more than a story about a young girl and an older man, but this is a love story, and a very strong one at that.<BR>Although many of us may not follow in Humbert Humbert's footsteps, we can all relate to him, we can all relate to what he is feeling for the young Dolores Haze or also known as Lolita.  That feeling is Love.  I know I have experienced it, that love that will not leave your heart, that you will always have for you, your first love.  Another questions is that of whether Humbert is a pedophile or not.  This is hard to put your finger on.  In the novel he calls himself a monster and a pervert several times, but at the same time, you have to understand that between lust and love.  Humbert is in love, which makes things hard for you to put your finger on.<BR>As for Doloras Haze, or Lolita, I find that throughout the story she is much mor infatuated, and all though she claims several times that she has been raped by Humbert, I think she is just as much at fault as Humbert in this crazy love story.<BR>Lolita is a literary Masterpiece.  Plain and simple.  A piece of literature that plunges us deep inside the head of a man that is in mad love.  The author uses Humberts madness to his advantage by going into deep detail about all things around this character.<BR>There is one full chapter dedicated to the style of Lolita's tennis playing.  The detail is incredible and precise.  This is beautifully written.  I loved it.<BR>It took a long time for this masterpiece to be published in the states, and today is still looked at as trash by many.  But these people dont look at the statement that this work makes, and how powerful it really is.<BR>This book is for anyone that loves good literature, but also a good book to look into the lives of two very different people that have come together for good or for worse.  This book will not dissappoint.	2003-03-05
US	33326207	RKG53CH3ZE5O4	0449213943	15707610	All Quiet on the Western Front	Books	5	2	2	N	N	War hurts more than our bodies, but it hurts our minds also	This book is and always will be a classic.  It could very possibly be the greatest war novel of modern war.  Paul, the main character, enlists in the German Army of World War I.  We follow him into the trenches of battle and feel his emotions.  We witness the hate and hurt of war.  This is not a book to be taken lightly.  Instead, we should read this and understand better what our war vets go through on a daily basis.  Some are able to cope, some are not.<br />Paul enters the war not knowing to expect, as thousands do.  But in the end, his life, and his mind, will be changed forever. This book is beautifully written, and beautifully translated.  I recommend this to any fan of war novels, or anyone that wants to experience what it was like.  This is a close as you will get to the trenches, unless you were there.	2003-03-02
US	33326207	R3ADMGSRW6VIC6	0786915692	751327947	Baldur's Gate II: Shadows of Amn (Forgotten Realms: Computer Tie-In Novels)	Books	4	4	20	N	N	A great follow up to the original	The follow up to the game of Baldur's Gate was great, and so is this book. As the first game was, this is game was a bit hard to follow story wise. But this book brings it all together. Phillip Athens, the writer of the fist novel in the trilogy does a great job telling the story in detail of Abdel and his companions.  We even get to follow them into a drow city deep under the world that we dont know much about.  This story is essential to the outcome of the trillogy. <BR>It is here that we get plunged deeper into the city of Baulder's Gate, and deeper into the lives of Abdel and his companions.  The battles are well written out and hold on to the reader tightly. This is the story that brings everything you have been wondering about together.  The feeling is much deeper than that of the first, which is great. You will find plenty of turns and twists in this second novel of the Baldur's Gate series. I recommend this book to any fan of the games or fans of the first book.<BR>Writing a fantasy novel is difficult in itself, but writting a book that is based on a best selling video game trilogy is even more difficult.  Why?  Because you have to be able to keep the fans reading and give them the same sense of adventure that they experienced in the game.  Leaving it at that, I feel that Athens hit a perfect mark with this second book.	2003-03-01
US	33326207	R39VMQF8PGCG5M	0786914181	333113678	SPINE OF THE WORLD, THE (Forgotten Realms: Paths of Darkness)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A break from Drizzt but not the Barbarian	This book is the second book in the \\"Paths of Darkness\\" series.  I have to admit, I was a little weary about picking this book up.  I had heard many mixed reviews about the books without Drizzt.  I am so glad that I read this book!!!!<br />This book is very different then the other Drizzt books.  Even the writing format is a little different.  Every other chapter Salvatore switches characters, from Wulfgar, to a young peasant girl turned Queen named Meralda.<br />I was a bit confused with the story of Meralda, but it all comes together.  Although Her and Wulfgar's paths only cross for a few chapters, they are a major influance on each other, changing each others lives for good or for bad (I will let you read and find out).<br />All and all, I thought this was an exellent book.  I read it in 2 days with not problem at all.  I enjoyed it a lot and think any fan of Drizzt, his companions, or his enemies will love this book and the others in the \\"Paths of Darkness\\" series.	2003-02-28
US	33326207	R5ZOV8QX8M5Z6	0740704818	699671477	The Blue Day Book	Books	5	2	2	N	N	If this book doesnt draw a smile on you, you might need help	I recieved this book, along with several other books from a lady that was just going to throw them away because she read them all.  I have added this hilarious book to my coffee table and there it will stay for me when I need a good laugh or a smile.  <br />I could not get past the first few pictures without a smile on my face.  This is just a feel good book that will bring you up from a down state.  I think that &quot;The Blue Day Book&quot; is a great edition to any coffee table and a great gift to anyone.  Pick this up for you wife, girlfriend, husband etc.  and watch them laugh and smile.	2003-02-27
US	33326207	R219R9D1718ORC	076455302X	743073379	Sex For Dummies (For Dummies (Computer/Tech))	Books	2	24	37	N	N	Pass this up and get the Idiots guide to Sex	My girlfriend had this book on her bookshelf so I decided to take a look through it one day.  I have to say that I was pretty upset with it.  The book doesnt have very many pictures and the few that it does are just very crude drawings.   Drawings and pictures are pretty crucial when it comes to books like this, mainly because it is nice to be able to take a look at what you will be doing rather than reading about it and trying to picture it in your head.  I own \\"The complete Idiots Guide to Sex\\" and I think that it would be a much better buy for anyone looking for some good info.  The author of \\"The Idiots Guide\\" is much more down to earth, and and writes with a bit more of a sence of humor.  Also, there are much more pictures to help you have ideas of what you are doing.<br />Pass this up and check out my review for \\"The complete Idiots Guide to Sex\\". I think you would find better use of that book.  So it short, I would not get this book.	2003-02-26
US	33326207	R1MDAB51OG48JS	0679446486	684823314	Airframe	Books	2	0	0	N	N	Michael Crichton at his worst	I am a huge Michael Crichton fan.  I love his books more than any others and once I pick them up, I cant put them down.  Im sorry that I cant say that about this novel.  It was terrible.<br />This is a very different kind of book than other Crichton novels, and maybe that is why I couldnt get into it.  I felt that it was dry, and un interesting.  If you are into planes, then maybe this book will be for you, mainly because of all the technical info about aircrafts.  But this is more of a book about an investigation of a plan that almost crashes.  I got half way through the book and stopped reading it.  I just made me want to go to sleep.  Boring Boring Boring.  I didnt want to put it down, just because i know that Crichton is always full of surpises.  But if i got halfway through the book with none yet, then I didnt think anything special was coming up.<br />As I said before, I didnt like this book at all, but some may be into this kind of stuff.  If so, feel free to pick it up, but for all that are bored by investigations that dont have any thrill to them, pass this book up.	2003-02-23
US	33326207	RZHIHBF2OCPNP	0806995270	352470936	John Hedgecoe's Figure & Form	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A great book for Beginners.	I have noticed that the people that have reviewed this book did not give it very good reviews.  But I think I know why.  Well for one, one of the guys thought it was an art book, when it is obviously an instrutional book.<br />Before I go any further, I would like to emphasize that this is a BEGINNERS book.  If you are looking for advanced techniques on photographing the nude, you may not like this book.  As for me, I found it very helpful.  As I am a beginner in nude photography.<BR>The author does not go into much detail about each subject, but gives enough information to help out well.  Plus, i find that part of the fun of photography is exploring, and we dont want all the fun spelled out for us.  <br />The author goes step by step through the different kinds of nude photography.  I have to say that the models are not very attractive, but that is a part of the beauty of photography.  We are not looking to make playboy models here.  For me, I am into black and white, so I was able to skip through much of the book to the parts where I was interested in.  I also prefer real sunlight rather than artifitial light.  This was an area of the book that helped me a lot.  You are shown different views of models and how the light effects them.  Also, the diffence in sunlight and lamp light.  And trust me, there is a very big difference.<br />All and all, this book was a good buy for me.  I am glad that I purchased it.  I dont plan to read it and follow it as a photography bible, but there are some helpful tips that are nice.<BR>Again, I will say that this book may not be for experienced photographers and is not an art book.  But to help all of us amatuers out and to show us what we need to know.	2003-02-21
US	33326207	R3RHHNLHEPEL9A	0786913886	691317033	The Silent Blade (Forgotten Realms:  Paths of Darkness, Book 1)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Return to the power of the Crystal Shard	The Silent Blade is not only the firt book of the series \\"The Paths of Darkness\\" by R.A. Salvatore, but it is also the return to a battle that was thought over.  The battle of and for the evil Crystal Shard.<br />In this first novel of the series, we encounter all of our old friends and enemies.  This book really is an intro for the rest of the novels in this series which pins 3 characters, drizzt, wulfgar, and Entriri.  The book is broken up, watching each character and showing what brings them to soon be their own novel.  <br />Wulfgar is struggling with his sanity after being imprisoned in the abyss for six long years.<BR>Drizzt is on a search to destroy the evil Crystal Shard.<BR>And Atermis Entriri the deadly assassin and Drizzts fighting equel returns to his home city in search of himself and what he wants to do with the rest of his life.<br />All and all this story makes for another classic tale for Drizzt and his companions.  A must read for Drizzt fans.	2003-02-21
US	33326207	R2Y7ESUK58BV69	0385182449	639916239	Pet Sematary	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A new kind of Terror is in these pages	This book is a masterpiece. Plain and simple. Not only is this book a masterpiece, but in my eyes, King's most terrifying novel.  Stephen King has a way of writing every kind of novel possible, from love, to suspense to pure terror. I believe that this book has it all. For all that have seen the movie and have not read this masterpiece, you are missing out on an excellent story. Pet Sematary is scary enough just by reading the misspelled title. We get plunged into a world that can never end if only buried in a sacred spot, but is this a neverending world that we want to live in? This is a question that King makes you ask yourself all through this novel. King makes us feel for these characters and wonder what you would do if you were in a similar situation.  The character development is perfect as it is in all of King's books.  A major plus about this book is that King keeps you thinking and wondering through every page.  When you think something is going to happen it doesnt, but when you least expect something, King will have you shaking.  I could not put down this novel, even though I was scared to death from it. It pulls you in and doesnt let go.  This is one of Kings best novels ever. Read this and I promise love from it, and even more terror.	2003-02-21
US	33326207	R1JINR67H0K9BH	0451627180	160743258	Gilgamesh: A Verse Narrative	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A beautiful myth	I read this book in my western civ class during college.  I was not sure what to expect from it, but found that I was pulled in and the book and meaning of the book would not let go.  This is the meaning of life at its best.  Athough not much history is involved with this epic tale, the writing is.  This well done verse translation gives a glossary at the end of the book to help with hard to pronouce words and makes the read a bit easier.  I do suggest reading this great book.  It is very well done.	2003-02-21
US	33326207	R3NVJQW8F5MXVC	038529929X	313045692	Hannibal: A Novel	Books	4	0	1	N	N	A INCREDIBLE conclusion to an incredible trillogy.	I really enjoyed this book.  It is unlike the two Lecter novels before it.  The writing is a bit different, and the Harris goes much more into the lives of the characters than in his earlier books. <BR>In \\"Hannibal\\", there are three main characters.  We find Dr. Lecter living in Italy, leading a life he always dreamed of.  A teacher and Art Director, studying, teaching and hiding, going on with his life as if he was never locked away.  Then we have FBI special agent Clarice Starling.  Starling knows Lecter from the book \\"The Silence of the Lambs\\" where she intervies him for his insight on catching a serial killer.  Never giving up on Lector, Starling knows she will find him, but she doesnt know why she wants to find him so bad.  She fights herself, knowing that she wants him locked away again, but at the same time, she also hides more reasons for the search. And the third main character is a severly dissabled man named Mason Verger, a middle aged billionaire, who's life was ruined by Lecter when he was a young experimenting homosexual, and now he wants revenge and will do anything to get it.<BR>Harris takes on a ride around the world following these characters, and learing about how they all connect to Hannibal in some way, even Hannibal himself.  This book is VERY different then the movie, so if you want to learn more about the lives of these people and an ending very very different then the movie, then you will want to read this incredible thriller.  We get driven deep into all of their minds, and learn the true reasons for Lectors behavior.<BR>Harris did not miss his mark with this book.  The ten years in the making was worth the wait.<BR>This is an Incredible conclusion to an incredible trilogy.	2003-02-20
US	33326207	R27QOOO238ZEXK	0312022824	247672694	The Silence of the Lambs	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A SUPER THRILLER THAT WILL KEEP YOU ON YOUR TOES	This is Thomas Harris's second book in the Hannibal Lecter Trillogy.  This book is much different than the first in the series &quot;Red Dragon&quot;.  But will keep you on your toes just as much.<br />In &quot;The Silence of the Lambs&quot; we follow FBI trainee Clarice Starling who gets caught up in the search for the Tennesse Governors Daughter who dissappears.  This search ends up leading her to the world known cannibal, Hannibal Lecter.  What starts as business meetings between the two, turns into a game for Lecter.  If he gives out info to Clarice, she must in return tell him of her life.  Soon it seems that Clarice becomes a major infatuation of Lecters that just makes this already suspensfull novel even more thrilling.<br />If you have seen the amazing movie and liked it, as most of u did.  You will love this book.  The movie follows the book very well.  But as always, there is much more to learn by reading the book.  I would highly advise reading this great book by Thomas Harris, you will not regret it.	2003-02-20
US	33326207	R2FQC19QA9QIPD	0394589424	546668910	Rising Sun	Books	5	0	0	N	N	BUSINESS IS WAR!	I have to admit, I was a little iffy about picking this book up to read. I mean, It just seemed so, so, un Crichton. But im glad I did read this. It is one heck of a page turner. This book really makes you think about what goes on behind closed doors in major businesses, and even the government. <BR>When a murder occurs durning the opening party in a major business party, the company is trying to do whatever they can to keep it under wraps. It is up to a young liasion officer and another officer to pin the killer. But that isnt easy for them to do, because they only have one day to solve the crime. And there is much more going on than they or you will every believe.<BR>Every chapter points the murder towareds a different face, leaving you constanly wondering who did it.  This book has more twists and turns in it that you will be able to believe.  But as Crichton is always able to do, he makes you believe, makes you realize that the whole conspiracy that he has created is very real and very possible.<BR>Although a turn from Crichton's Sci-Fi regular novels, dont let this pass.  It is as good or even better than his regulars.  And also keep in mind.... this book was his first bestseller!!!	2003-02-19
US	33326207	R2Q1L5JF5Q6CJJ	0679419454	782303291	Disclosure	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A thrilling roller coaster ride!!!!	This is Michael Crichtons second non techno thriller. What i mean by this, is that it doesnt have crazy biological stuff about it. But that doesnt mean he cant right a good novel about real life. <BR>In this book we follow Tom Sanders, a well off family man that is a manager of a computer company. He is expecting a promotion, but the day he expects it, he finds that an old lover from ten years ago comes out of nowhere and gets the job he was planning on getting. While catching up with her later that night in her office, things happen. The next day Tom is accused of sexual Harassment. Tom is stuck in a corner, with his marriage, job, and life on the line, unless he does something about it.<BR>Everyone is against Sanders, i mean, what man accuses a woman of sexual harassment.  This is what Crichton is trying to put out there for us.  It can happen, and it does/did happen.<BR>This book is based on a true story that will leave you gasping every chapter. This book was great. I loved it. Don't pass this up because its not set in a dinosaur park. Michael Crichton can still right one hell of a thriller set in an everyday environment.  Every page has a new meaning and makes you think differntly, all the way up to the incredibly shocking conclusion.	2003-02-19
US	33326207	R2R9E1U04XVHO3	1560768800	404536933	Starless Night: Legacy of the Drow, Book II	Books	4	0	0	N	N	The return to the Underdark	This is book 2 in the series \\"The Legacy of the Drow\\".  This book takes off right after the first book, \\"The Legacy\\".  Here we follow Drizzt into the Underdark once again to find and eliminate the threat of the evil Drow that have waged war agains he and his dear friends, and taken the life of one.  If you have read the book \\"Exile\\" (book 2 of The Dark Elf Trillogy) and enjoyed it, you will like this book.  Most of the  book we are in the Underdark with Drizzt and his female friend Cattie-Brea.  The ending of this book is not only a major turning point in the series, but will leave you smiling, and shocked.  This is yet another great book in the wonderful Drizzt Saga.	2003-02-17
US	33326207	RS6AIKXQ2YTQ0	1560766409	81281548	The Legacy: Legacy of the Drow, Book I	Books	5	3	4	N	N	One of Salvatore's best Drizzt books.	This book starts the 3rd series starring the famous Dark Elf Drizzt Do'Urden.  As the reviewer before me said, I would highly advise that you read the Dark Elf Trillogy and the Icewind Dale Trillogy before starting this series.<br />This book starts soon after the book \\"The Halflings Gem\\" (icewind dale book 3) ends.  In \\"The Legacy\\", we find Drizzt and the Companions of the Hall living happy lives in the new home of Mithril Hall.  But the peace doesnt last long.  The evil world of the Drow is not finished with Drizzt and want revenge for leaving their city in torment.  The spider queen orders the 1st house to the drow city to attact Mithril hall and find Drizzt.   <br />This soon to be war with the Dark elves starts in this book and continues throughout the series \\"The Legacy of the Drow\\".  Drizzt is forced to begin this war with his evil kin and his life will never be the same, also, we will lose a dear friend in this great novel.  <br />5 stars for this book.  READ IT.	2003-02-17
US	33326207	R2HTTRE2IO2R9J	0786901640	144994476	Siege of Darkness (Forgotten Realms: Legacy of the Drow, Book 3)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	The return of the evil drow	This is the 3rd book in \\"The Legacy of the Drow\\" series.  In this book the evil drow city finally plans a good attack against the Drizzt and his friends.  The war that was started in \\"The Legacy\\" continues, but now the biggest battle begins.  The Drow make it to the surface and all hell has broken loose.  The evil spider queen is now living only to see the traitor Drizzt dead.  The Drow now flow to the surface and attack where the companions of the hall least expect it.  From under them.  Now the drow flow to the surface and make an attack that few will get out of.  This is a must have for the series and for any fan of Drizzt or the Drow.  Dont miss this great part of the series.	2003-02-17
US	33326207	R2DW8K465XCRJ1	0786907509	92936424	Passage to Dawn (Forgotten Realms: Legacy of the Drow, Book 4)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	A thrilling Finale to a thrilling series	This may be the last book in the series \\"The Legacy of the Drow\\", but only a turning point in Drizzts life.  [...]  In this book we follow Drizzt and his friends to confront the fiend and to retreive this \\"valuable\\" prize.  But there is much more in store for Drizzt then he knows.  The person held in the Abyss may or may not  be who he thinks it is.  This is a book that will change Drizzt all Drizzt novels to come. <BR>R.A. Salvatore is very easily one of the best fantasy novelists ever to live.  Drizzt is a character that we have all grown to love and with every new novel he stars in, we learn more about him and watch him change.  This book is a major turning point in all the Drizzt novels, making us crave for more and to find out how things will soon turn out.  Drizzt changes so much in this book, realizing what he wants and who he is.  This is a thrilling finale to a thrilling series.  A must read.	2003-02-17
US	33326207	R2TC535T3OY4CF	0789450720	703521577	Kama Sutra	Books	3	6	8	N	N	The same as her other Kama Sutra Book, just smaller	I have both of Hoopers Kama Sutra books, and I have to say that I like this one better.  Why? you ask.  Well, one main reason.  I gave the larger book only 2 stars, I just thought that most of the stuff was normal positions and stuff.  Well, this is the exact same book, but..... and this is a big thing, it is tiny.  You can just stick it in a drawer by your bedside and flip through it if you want.  I still stick by my original thoughts of the bigger book which is the same for this one visually, but it is a nice little compainion for your bedside table.	2003-02-16
US	33326207	R5PQM2CU0UC18	0789441837	340768761	Anne Hooper's Great Sex Guide	Books	4	7	7	N	N	A very small, good book for the bedside.	Some of Hooper's books I don't really like that much.  It just seems that all of them are the same, or have the same ideas.  But this one is a little better.  First of all, its not oversized.  Actually, its only about 3 inches by 3 inches, which is great to just stick on your bedside table or stick it in a drawer.  Most of her books are huge, and they cant even fit on a bookshelf.  This book goes from the start of a nice evening, to the good stuff in the bedroom.  She covers everything from courtship to massages, to all kinds of fun positions.  This is one book I am giving a good rating by Hooper.  Get this and if you want, keep it in your car or purse.  Its a good buy.	2003-02-16
US	33326207	RN8XUWGWJ3W8Y	0789468379	135246639	Great Sex Games	Books	3	23	24	N	N	A sorta fun little book	Well, the rating of this book really depends on if you enjoy sex games or not.  Some people dont, and like to get right to the action, but some enjoy fantasy and role playing.  If so this book is for you.  There is a lot of that stuff in this book, from dressing up, to good props, that you can use on each other in fun ways.  I am not a big role player myself, that is why I gave it only three stars.  I was expecting this to be a book with more games that you can play in the way of strip and do what I ask games.  If you are looking for that, then this book wont be for you.	2003-02-16
US	33326207	R1C6ZLYUF1D3HH	0451197968	321732450	The Running Man	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Fun and Thrilling, you want to constanly know what happens	This was as really fun, fast read. It is not very long so you can read it in about an afternoon or if you are a slower reader, a day or two. Dont be fooled by the movie, this book is very very different. Other than the name Ben Richards and the fact that there is a game show in the book, it is very different.  This is the fourth of Stephen King's \\"Bachman Books\\".  If you pick this up because of King's name on the front you may be a little let down.  I say this because writing as Bachman, his style is much different.   This is not a horror story in the least bit, but more of a sci-fi thriller.  We follow Ben Richards in this book, as he tries to win money for his family on a gameshow where, you win, or you die. If you can stay a fugitive for more than 30 days, then you win. But this is not easy, and nobody has ever won the game.  The game gives you 24 hours to flee from the law to wherever you want to go, then the gameshows \\"henchmen\\" take chase.  Every page of this book is a thrill ride, which will keep you turning them until the end.  \\"The Running Man\\" along with all the other \\"Bachman Books\\" are a blessing and show King's true talent as the world's best selling author.  This book has an ending that will leave you with your mouth wide open, prepare yourself. Great Book. Go Stephen King, err... Richard Bachman.	2003-02-15
US	33326207	R1DQ1411IJJYFG	0671039725	769595666	Carrie	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A different kind of scary	So you think you know Stephen King?  You think that he is all vampires and aliens?  Well, let his first novel prove you wrong. Man, this book was strange, but very good all and all.  King takes this innocent young, tourtured highschool girl and turns her into a person to haunt your dreams. Throughout the book you learn of Carrie White and her power to move things.  Now, im sure most people have seen the movie, but the ending is so much creepier in this book than it is in the movie.  It is a little bit slow paced, but it is all worth it by the end.  It is the kind of scary that makes you shiver.  Not like you are afraid to go to sleep, but more in a way that it is just so strange that it messes with your head.  This is the book that skyrocketed King's career.  His writing style was a little different back then, but not bad.  I thought this was a really cool book and most definetly recommend it.	2003-02-15
US	33326207	R9F2GVVYJG9UH	0765341972	21305186	The Mothman Prophecies	Books	4	2	2	N	N	VERY VERY CREEPY!!!!!	This book is not what I expected at all.  I picked up the book after I saw the movie.  It turns out that the movie is a fictional story based on the mothman.  In this book, author John Keel tells his stories of traveling around the east cost areas and, well, UFO hunts.  It is very creepy the stories he has to tell and the fact that thousands have witnessed what he is writing about.  This is a very fun, and creepy book.  It will leave you stirring in your sleep.	2003-02-15
US	33326207	R12XU3Q898R2B1	0671024418	802709862	City of the Dead (Resident Evil #3)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	WOW, an incredible thriller that is better than the game	This is the third book in S.D. Perry's novelizations of the Resident Evil video games.  This book is right up there with the first in the series, and much much better than the second in the series.  Perry does a great job of making you scared as if you are in an abandoned city with the dead walking around trying to kill you.  This a very fun, freaky book to read.  If you loved the games  by Capcom, then you will love these books just as much.	2003-02-14
US	33326207	R13QAYD02RYN4J	0312156960	631070530	The Winter King (The Arthur Books #1)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A whole new Arthur	I love Cornwell.  His novels are realistic and make you feel as you are in the book.  He does just this with &quot;The Warlord Chronicles&quot;.  This is not the Arthur that we have hear about all of our lives, but a very different take on him.  All of the famous names appear in this book, and in the next two, but they serve different takes than what we have grown to know and love.  As said before in a review for this book, if you are looking for an Arthur novel that is all fairytale like, dont read this book.  <BR>Cornwell makes this book, to me, the most real rendition of Arthurian legend.  I am a Medieval studies major, and although I dont study Arthur much, I know the tales, and I also know there was a real Arthur, exagerated by a thousand years of word of mouth.<BR>Through my eyes, I believe Cornwell knew this also, and so he wrote these books based on the &quot;real&quot; Arthur&quot;.  Rather than having faries and magic, we have a realistic look into the dark ages (the time after the roman empire fell, and the coming of Charles the Great).  If you love this time period and love battles, get this book.  You will love it.	2003-02-14
US	33326207	R31PNKGU9O17BA	0671784986	550883285	Code: Veronica  (Resident Evil #6)	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Not very scary.	It seems that every other book in the Resident Evil book series is not very good.  And this is one of them.  I could understand the other ones not being to great because they are not based on the games, but this one is.  I was a little shocked that I wasnt shaking in my bed.  Read it just to keep you posted as to what is going on in the series, but not to be scared.	2003-02-14
US	33326207	R2PJ1VNU2QQD4G	067178496X	163404979	Nemesis (Resident Evil #5)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Very scary.  Well written!!!!	This book takes place at the same time as Resident Evil part 2 or \\"The City of the Dead\\".  In this book you follow Jill Valentine on a different side of Raccoon City.  But she has more troubles than Chris and Claire.  She is being chased by the Nemisis, or the STARS eater.  Throughout this book you will find yourself looking around the corners in your own house and praying to god that a huge half dead thing isnt going to jump through your wall.  This is a good book.	2003-02-14
US	33326207	R1NG844MB2Q7KI	0671024426	38490995	Underworld  (Resident Evil #4)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	A so-so book that is a fill in between the games.	I was a little dissappointed in this book.  I had read all the other ones in the series and loved them.  But this book really didnt do it for me.  It didnt scare me like the other ones.  I would read this book to keep you going on what is happening in the S.T.A.R.S lives, but dont expect to be freaked out.	2003-02-14
US	33326207	R36IHLAIGLZ56I	0395177111	669379389	The Hobbit (or There and Back Again)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The wonderful Prelude to "The Lord of the Rings"	This is a great book. My mother used to read this book to me as a child, and I also used to watch the cartoon almost everyday. I recently picked up a copy of this book just to read for fun and I loved it as much as I always have.<br />\\"The Hobbit\\" is about Bilbo Baggins of the shire. One day he is disrupted by a band of dirty dwarves and the famous wizard Gandolf. This band is looking for a burglur to travel with them to reclaim the dwarves old kingdom and fortune from the dragon Smaug.<br />Chapter by Chapter find Bilbo and his band of Dwarves facing a new problem. It is in this book that The one ring that rules all, or the ring of power is found by Bilbo, and starts the wonderful story of \\"The Lord of the Rings\\". This book is wonderful. Do not pass it up.<br />Do keep in mind before reading this book though, that Tolkien wrote this as a book for children.  There is a lot of singing and whatnot in here that can get a little annoying at times.  But other than that it is a good story.  The plot is very uncomplicated, as it should be for children, but dont let this turn you away.  I would highly advise this book before you dive into the Lord of the Rings.	2003-02-14
US	33326207	R26AP8UAW4XRTN	0679419462	861735579	The Lost World	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Not to shabby	I read this book soon after I finished Jurassic Park.  I liked it a lot.  It has a much different feel than Jurassic park though.  In this book the characters are more out for study than a ride in the park and as always, it turns for the worst.  I liked Jurassic Park much much better than this one, and if you are deciding whether to read this or not based on the movie, dont be fooled.  The movie is VERY different from this great novel.  Dont pass this up, but also, if you are expecting as good as the first novel, you may be dissappointed.	2003-02-13
US	33326207	R19BXI3H1ZNE64	1854102664	786122107	David Hamilton: Twenty Five Years of an Artist	Books	5	28	30	N	N	BEAUTIFUL!!!	This book is a masterpiece!  Everything about it is just plain beautiful.  I can't believe that Hamilton ever had problems with these incredible pictures that he has taken.  And that takes us back to what is art?  and what is pornography?  It seems that in this country, people tend to believe that if a girl is under the age of 18 and nude, it is pornography.  Hamilton has proved them wrong.  If it is legal for familys, which do in a lot of cases include young girls and teenage girls, to go to nudist colonies or be naturists, where they are nude three fourths of the time, why is it not right for someone to capture this beautiful lifestyle on film?  <br />The female body, at any age is a very beautiful thing, and not many people will let themselves admit this.  I find it especially beautiful when the girls are at the brink of womanhood, and there bodies are changing.  Why is it so hard to find this stunning for people???<br />You will find portraits of everything in this book, from swimming, to sleeping, to just plain stand up posing for the camera.  Also, this book includes other works of Hamilton.  Works like nature etc.  <br />In one word, this book is Beautiful, and so is Hamilton, for doing something that very few people can do.  That is to realize that there is natural beauty in everyone, and he photographed it.	2003-02-12
US	33326207	R445TCX9ICLZB	0440407028	159056506	The Book of Three (Pyrdain Chronicles)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Beautifully written fantasy to take you into another world	I was given this book by a friend when I was ten years old.  At that time I wasn't a big reader, but I kept the book around.  I recently was going through some old boxes and found this book along with the rest of the Prydain Chronicles.  I started reading the book thinking it would bore me, being a book for middle readers.  But I loved it, and couldnt put it down.  I ended up reading the whole series and loved them all.  This just shows that you are never to old for a good fairytale.  Read this book, its great.	2003-02-11
US	33326207	R1ONLWBJBZU1AK	0744000017	975548359	Parasite Eve II Official Strategy Guide (PC Game Books)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Pretty good guide	Well, its hard to rate a good guide these days.  I liked it.  It helped me get through the game and gave me some good strategies.  It was a bit thin and I thought some parts could have used some better hints, but all and all, a good book to help you out.	2003-02-11
US	33326207	RDW3D9R67SZJA	0744000416	116230003	Final Fantasy IX Official Strategy Guide (Video Game Books)	Books	1	2	2	N	N	I feel bad for the trees used to make this guide	Ok, this book blew.  I mean, after the guides for Final Fantasy 7 and 8, you would think that this would be good also.  But its not.  Dont be fooled.  It is a very short guide that is constantly refering you to Playonline to get hints, which is a major waste of time.  The game rocked, and I always thought that the Brady Games books rocked to, until this one.  If you get this guide, you will regret it.  Trust me.	2003-02-11
US	33326207	R8V1A37VNW3RC	156686903X	999017626	Final Fantasy VIII Official Strategy Guide (Video Game Books)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	As good as the Final Fantasy 7 guide	After writing the great Final Fantasy 7 guide, Cassidy had a lot to live up to.  And he achieved it with the Final Fantasy 8 guide.  He takes you step by step through one of the most complex RPG's to date, making it easier to understand and helping you complete this game.  This guide has it all, Dont miss this book if you are looking to tear this game apart quest by quest.	2003-02-11
US	33326207	R2JVSL9XTD7U59	1566867142	78548285	Official Final Fantasy VII Strategy Guide, Playstation Version (v. 1)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Great guide, learn it ALL!!!!!	This book is wonderfully written and takes you step by step through the biggest RPG in video game history.  <br />All Materia<BR>All Characters and secret characters<BR>All Weapons<BR>All Armor<BR>All Items<BR>All Sidequests<br />And it is ALL step by step.  A great guide to complete this great game.	2003-02-11
US	33326207	R23GYUEA3EQ11P	1566869250	343695322	Final Fantasy Anthology Official Strategy Guide (Brady Games)	Books	5	3	9	N	N	David Cassady writes Killer Guides... Period.	My girlfriend got me this guide for Christmas the year the game came out.  I wasnt to sure how well it would help me, mainly because Cassady had to cram two games into one book.  Well, he managed to do it, and to do a hell of a job with it.  Each game has step by step walkthroughs that are a great help and helps you with tons of secrets.  This is a very good guide.	2003-02-11
US	33326207	R1UOTFAK7FYJYN	0744000505	126461432	The Art of Final Fantasy IX	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Beautiful, Just Beautiful Drawings from the Best	I love Final Fantasy!!  I have been a die hard fan since part one was released in 1990.  There are several books out that show the visual effects from the Final Fantasy series, but this one is by far the best.  It is strait forward, art, from the original designer of FF characters, Yoshitaka Amano.  Page for page you will see the steps that he followed making this characters shine.  <br />The main reason that I took one star away was because most of the art in this book is finished up designs from Amano.  I am a very big fan of his work, ex.  Vampire Hunter D, FF1-6,and 9 adn several other Japaneese work.  I enjoy his early sketches better, they are much more fantasy like.  But that does not mean that this collection is not beautiful as printed.<br />This is a beautiful editon to any Final Fantasy collecton or just plain art or drawings collection.  Dont pass this up.	2003-02-11
US	33326207	R1TKEL0VFLJ9K0	0744001404	134452549	Final Fantasy X Official Strategy Guide (Brady Games Signature Series)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Good guide for a GREAT game	I didnt know if I wanted to get this guide, mainly because the guides for Final Fantasy 9 and Chronicles ....  But im glad that I did.  This guide is up to par with the guides for parts 7 and 8 which were very helpful.  Another plus is that the author doesnt give away the final boss (which is a shock).  I would definetly get this guide to help you complete this great complex game.  You will love the game and love the book.	2003-02-11
US	33326207	R3423QIK6ZPBIA	0786915889	208021139	The Dark Elf Trilogy: Collector's Edition (Homeland / Exile / Sojourn)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Learn where the infamous Drizzt came from in one large book	This was the very first forgotten realms book i ever bought.  At this time in my life, I had no idea what forgotten realms even was.  But the cover looked cool.  So I picked it up.<br />Now I am finding myself in line early in the mornings of the release's of Salvatores newest Drizzt novels.  <br />Wonderful, frightening, and fast paced.  I loved all three books, and it is great to have them all in one large edition.	2003-02-10
US	33326207	R2URDYJA955VSD	0140445323	440434862	The Song of Roland (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Medieval Literature at its best	I was told to read this book by my College Western Civ. teacher, and im glad I did.<br />It took me a little while to get into the poem writing of the book, but I ended up loving it and couldnt put it down.  The battles were graphic and very detailed and you get very drawn into them, feeling as if you are on the battlefield yourself.<br />Whether you read it for school or because you are interested in the period.  I think you will enjoy it as I did.	2003-02-10
US	33326207	RBLOXUU8ZYAX2	0786918004	593065494	Legacy of the Drow Collector's Edition (A Forgotten Realms(r) Omnibus)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Continue the adventures of the Greatest fantasy character.	This is the next Drizzt series after \\"The Icewind Dale Trillogy\\".  Here we follow Drizzt and his friends in battles against the Evil Spider Queen trying to kill drizzt for leaving his dark kin.<br />It is in this series where Drizzt starts to question himself and wonder how he is going to carry on with his life if he continues to be a danger to his friends.<br />These are four books you dont want to miss.	2003-02-10
US	33326207	R1S2KG98GTEIGH	088038901X	924065681	The Halfling's Gem (Forgotten Realms: The Icewind Dale Trilogy, Book 3)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Grab food for the next 3 days, You wont leave your home.	The last book in the best Fantasy trillogy ever written.  <br />The assassing has Regis the halfling, and may kill him.  Now Drizzt and his compainions must follow the trail and at a fast pace in order to find their small friend. <br />This is a great book and a great ending to Salvatores first Forgotten Realms series.<br />Awesome book.   Buy it.	2003-02-10
US	33326207	R34EMSGNSVZKH	0671522647	107857920	Gump & Co.	Books	2	3	4	N	N	Very disappointing	I was not very happy with this book at all.  I was thrilled to find that there was a sequel to the first book so I rushed to get this.  I couldnt even finish it.<br />There were a few funny parts in the book, like Forrest and his son starting a hog farm, and Forrest coming up with a great taste for the (if I can remember correctly) horrible tasting &quot;new coke&quot;.  But other than that Groom took good characters from the first book and ripped them to pieces.  I wanted to cry.  <br />Pass this one up.	2003-02-10
US	33326207	R2PD1K8KCUN9E1	0786707402	938418846	The Art of Sensual Loving: A New Approach to Sexual Relationships (Stanway, Andrew)	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Not bad, but a bit to much writing and not enough pictures.	Its not a bad book, but I would rather see more pictures showing how to go about the techniques.  I compare this book a lot to \\"The Joy of Sex\\".  The few drawings are not bad, and are semi graphic, but there needed to be more.  <br />The writing in the book is done well, but there is just page after page of nothing but writing, which can take away the fun of learning new things for the bedroom.	2003-02-10
US	33326207	R1HA2LFILCDKMP	0880389052	243097701	Homeland (Forgotten Realms)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Meet Drizzt for the first time in the land where he was born	Homeland is the first part of R.A. Salvatore's second trillogy starring the loved Dark elf Drizzt.  The Dark Elf Trillogy takes place before the Icewind Dale Trillogy and tells of the beginnings of the Dark Elf.  His evil family, and the one man (or elf) that changed his life forever.<br />This is the story that introduces us to the evil ways and lives of the Dark Elves, and how even the most evil can spawn something very different than they wanted.  That thing is Drizzt Do'Urden.<br />We follow drizzt from before his birth up until about the age of 20 (which is about 5 years old in human years).  If you love the Dark Elf as thousands of others do, but want to know more about his life before the surface, you will find it in Homeland.<br />5 stars.  The book is awesome.	2003-02-10
US	33326207	R2GQK48B24HOUK	088038672X	12144424	Streams of Silver (Forgotten Realms: The Icewind Dale Trilogy, Book 2)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The search for Mithril Hall begins	In the second installment of The Icewind Dale Trillogy, we follow the companions of the hall on their journey to find Brunor Battlehammers long lost home.  <br />It is a long journey for the friends and many memories are made for them, but one will follow them for a long time.  An assassin on a search for the halfling Regis and his magical ruby pendant.<br />Will they find mithril hall?  Will the assassing get Regis?  You will just have to find out, And you will have a blast doing it.	2003-02-10
US	33326207	R36PDA8N7P23RV	1842223984	868229468	Best Sex You'Ll Ever Have	Books	3	7	7	N	N	Good book, good pictures, same everyday positions.	(...) Its not a bad book, and it is fun to look at with your partner.  The models are good looking and the pictures so so graphic, but it is mainly all the regular positions that a sex loving couples do on a regular  basis.  If you are looking for something new and crazy fun to do, pass it up.  But if you are looking for a book to just keep you in tune, its not bad at all.	2003-02-10
US	33326207	RL7R1FOYXS0ET	0743453255	825640350	Forrest Gump	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Wonderful, Sad, Funny, Thrilling, and Much Much more.	I saw the great movie back when it came out in the theaters and loved it.  But it wasnt until about a year ago, I decided to pick up the book.  I had heard that it was very different, but as good as the movie.<br />In the book, Forrest is a bit of a different character that he is in the movie.  I think he is portrayed in the book as being a little bit smarter, but still dumb as rocks.<br />I wont spoil any of the fun, but I can say that it was a great read and kept me occupied until the very last page.	2003-02-10
US	33326207	R1X8U6WBWDJ0EG	0880385359	6406789	The Crystal Shard (Forgotten Realms: The Icewind Dale Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	The first Drizzt book EVER!!!, And one of the best	This is the first book in the Icewind Dale trillogy, and also the first book that Drizzt ever appeared in.  I loved the book very much.<br />You get to meet all the characters that you will soon grow to love and also learn about the soon to become infamous Crystal Shard.<br />The Crystal Shard falls into the hands of a traveling wizard and takes over his mind.  Soon he becomes one of the biggest and dangerous enemies that Drizzt and his Companions will ever face.<br />In one word.......Wonderful!!!!	2003-02-10
US	33326207	R2Q2Y2O2JNTCDE	0345354621	376914649	The Terminal Man	Books	3	1	1	N	N	A fun, fast read	We follow the character of Harry Benson in \\"The Terminal Man\\".  Harry has a medical problem where he blacks out and turns violent.  To help him, Doctors decided to put a computer in his brain to send soothing waves to him to help him settle.  But what happens when he learns to control the computer?<br />This is Michael Crichtons second book under his real name.  It is pretty short, I read it in one afternoon and it was able to keep me reading.<br />I found that the ending was a bit lame, but other than that, I wanted to know what happened next and then more, throughout the book.  It is a fun read that will keep you company on a boring day of snow or rain.<br />I gave the book three stars mainly because of its length and the ending.  I thought Crichton could do a bit better.	2003-02-10
US	33326207	R2MELGF4CHYCT5	078691811X	432976816	The Icewind Dale Trilogy: Collector's Edition (A Forgotten Realms Omnibus)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Three killer novels in one awesome book	This is great.  Not only do we get some of the very first Forgotten Realms books in one edition, but we get even MORE Drizzt. <br />The Icewind Dale trillogy tells of Drizzt and his new found life one the surface after he escapes from the nasty underdark (the dark elf trillogy).  We follow him and his new found friends all across the sword coast on great adventures that are only the beginning of the absolutly mind blowing &quot;Drizzt Saga&quot;.<br />Get this book, you will be lost without it.	2003-02-10
US	33326207	R2ZPI28L1578QY	0312104138	967482849	The Lovers' Guide: The Art of Better Lovemaking	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Well written and well pictured	Of all the sex books that I have, this is by far the best one.  The pictures in it are graphic, which is not a bad thing.  With these kind of pictures you get to see first hand, rather than looking at drawings.<br />This book has everything, which is surprising for its small size.  From before and after stimulation pictures of REAL vaginas and penises and real pictures of how to stimulate your partner properly.  <br />Very well done.  If you want a good sex book for a small price, get this one.	2003-02-10
US	33326207	R142YM54RD9LAL	1560760478	246260210	Sojourn: The Dark Elf Trilogy, Part 3 (Forgotten Realms: The Legend of Drizzt, Book III)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	The first days of Drizzt on the Surface... WONDERFUL.	This is part three of the Dark Elf Trillogy and by far the best book of the three part series.  <br />In &quot;Sojourn&quot; Drizzt finally steps foot on the surface world to live.  The story tells of Drizzt meeting a blind Ranger that changes his life and turns the unlikely Dark Elf into a Ranger himself.<br />Also, this is the book where we meet the beloved Brunor Battlehammer and his orphan daughter of 7 years old (and the girl to this day we wonder if Drizzt loves) CattiBre.<br />This is the best book in the Trillogy.  Wonderful.	2003-02-10
US	33326207	R2XLLREOC1ST27	0880389206	5618724	Exile: Forgotten Realms (The Dark Elf Trilogy, Book 2)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Meet the Hunter	&quot;Exile&quot; takes place a few years after &quot;Homeland&quot;.  Drizzt has escaped the terrible world of the Dark Elves to find a life of his own.  <br />He is trapped in the endless tunnels of the Underdark, where you Hunt, or be hunted.  This terrible world has made Drizzt into what Salvatore calls &quot;The Hunter&quot;.  <br />It is in &quot;Exile&quot; that we meet a much different Drizzt.  One that is vicious and takes no mercy.  That is until he meets some unlikely friends.<br />This is a great book, but more of just a small tie together book for the first and third great installments of the trillogy.  Not as good as the others.	2003-02-10
US	33326207	RH753KL3UY3DC	1564586499	471463857	Anne Hooper's Kama Sutra	Books	2	10	10	N	N	I would expect better from Hooper	Ok, its not to bad, but not to good either.  First off, the book is huge, not in lenght, but in actual size.  Its hard to even fit it on a book shelf.  <br />It has nice photographs, and several pictures of positions etc.  But it doesnt go into detail enough on how to do the possitions.  I found that when my girfriend and I tried them, it was more work than fun.  I think it would have been easier if Hooper described how to go about the possitions in detail rather than showing other couples making it look easy.<br />If I had another chance, I would have looked through the book more before I bought it.	2003-02-09
US	33326207	RIHECIFTKZASJ	0671778595	291485949	The New Joy of Sex (The Joy of Sex Series)	Books	3	11	17	N	N	More writing and talking about sex, than how to do it	I picked up this highly priced book for my collection of \\"sexual techniques\\" books.  I wont go as far as saying that its terrible, or that its wonderful.  <br />I thought that it had way to much writing in it, just random talking about history of sex and other stuff like that.  It needs to have more about how to go about doing the possisions etc.  <br />The pictures are all drawings, other than a few in the beginning, but the drawings are old looking and a little dull.  <br />One good thing that I found about the book is the slang that they used in it though.  It is hard to find a book that uses slang terms rather than the correct way.  I have quite a few sex books, and this is the only one that goes far enough to use [modern phrases], rather than, \\"vagina\\" and \\"penis\\".  I mean, come on, we all know that most people in bed dont use the term \\"vagina\\".  <br />If you are looking for more of a history on sex, get it.  If you want detail, pass it up.	2003-02-09
US	33326207	R2HIGCYRKYOMUB	0767904524	3900869	How to Give Her Absolute Pleasure: Totally Explicit Techniques Every Woman Wants Her Man to Know	Books	5	14	18	N	N	Ok men, get ready to make your woman drool!!!!	Men, if you love your woman, get this book.  Not only with you be pleased with the responses you will get from her, but she will go CRAZY.  This book has it all.  Lou Paget has been in this business for years, and im very glad that she finally made a book for us guys.  For years, she told girls how to please us, and we were left in the dark with how to make their eyes roll in the back of their head.  Well here it is.  <br />In this book we get diagrams of different girls vaginas and it goes into how each one is different, and how to please each kind.  Its great.  <br />  Thats right, before the sex even starts.<br />Dont pass this up guys.	2003-02-09
US	33326207	R2YGZ9SDXRYQTG	0028643763	983292506	The Complete Idiot's Guide To Amazing Sex (2nd Edition)	Books	4	22	27	N	N	Very well done!!!!	I will keep this short.  <br />This is a good book.  It goes into detail about \\"almost\\" everything about sex. <br />Here is a list of things she goes into in the book in good detail.<br />Female problems<BR>Male problems<BR>positons<BR>male and female \\"private part\\" sizes<BR>dating<BR>birth control<BR>seduction<BR>four play<BR>toys<br />These are just a few of the things she goes over.  It is a good book.  Get it.	2003-02-09
US	33326207	R1RXRBBRJM9APD	0767902874	723899252	How to Be a Great Lover: Girlfriend-to-Girlfriend Totally Explicit Techniques That Will Blow His Mind	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Not bad, Give it to your wife or girfriend.	Ok, so im a guy, and this is a book for woman.  Who cares!!!  We guys know what we like in bed, and sometimes if we try to show our woman, they freak and come out saying something like \\"What? im not good at turning you on?\\".  <br />I picked up this book and just set it on the bookshelf and one night, i found my girlfriend reading it.  Im not saying that woman dont know what they are doing, im just saying that these are things they can read and try for themselves.  <br />I read the book cover to cover and i actually learned a few things that I never knew about that turns us men on.  So, guy or girl, get this book.  Its worth it.<br />Woman, its good for you, you never know what crazy moves would drive us guys crazy.<br />Men, read it just to maybe have your woman try some ove the things on you.  Yes, even if it has to do with your anus, it doesnt mean your gay if you like anal stimulation. Haha.  Trust me.<br />This book is great for all!!!!!	2003-02-09
US	33326207	R2B992JSC8USPV	0679742298	904783689	The Talented Mr. Ripley	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A new twist at every turn	This is the first book of its kind that I have read.  I was never really into crime novels, but when a woman gave me a box of books and I found this in the box, It looked good enough to read.<br />You are grabbed right away, and taken into the crazy life of Tom Ripley, and finding that there is much more to him than you would expect at first.  This is a fun, thrilling novel that will keep you on your toes.<br />I deducted a star only because there are some chapters that just seemed to lag on.  Highsmith did a great job of describing scenes in this book, but some of it went on a bit to long, and got boring.  Other than this, it is a wonderful book.<br />I can't wait to read the others in the series.	2003-02-08
US	33326207	R1BZOT2DHKOOLM	0345427513	221309303	Gone for Soldiers: A Novel of the Mexican War	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Robert E. Lee gets his big break	In &quot;Gone for Soldiers&quot;, author Jeff Shaara takes us back to the Mexican American war.  During this time, we meet a younger Captain Robert E. Lee.  <br />I thought this book was great.  Shaara continues to write in his fathers style, as he did in the Civil War books.  Here, we follow General Winfield Scott and Lee.  <br />I recommend this book to anybody that is interested about this small war that we dont know a lot about.	2003-02-07
US	33326207	R2VM6QVRKCZV2H	0345348109	227222206	The Killer Angels: The Classic Novel of the Civil War (Civil War Trilogy)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	A classic that will never die	I was told I could read this book for extra credit by my College American History Professor.  The only reason I read it was because I wanted the extra credit to get an \\"A\\" in the class.  Not only did I end up getting an \\"A\\" in the class, but I got pulled into, page by page, the greatest battle in American History.  The Battle of Gettysburg.<br />This book was wonderful.  The battles, vivid and real, make you feel like you are on the battlefield fighting on whichever side you agree with.  <br />The book is written, chapter by chapter, in the views of the major players in Gettysburg, and the Civil War.  You get to know these American greats on a personal level and understand how they feel.  <br />The movie based on this novel, entitled, \\"Gettysburg\\", is just as powerful and does a great job of following the novel.  <br />Although Michael Shaara is not around anymore, his son Jeff Shaara has continued, with his fathers writing style, this wonderful saga with the battles before Gettysburg, in \\"Gods and Generals\\" and the battles after Gettysburg, in \\"The Last Full Measure\\".  Do not pass this wonderful piece of literature up.  You will walk away from this book with a real sense of knowing about our American Civil War.  <br />Enjoy	2003-02-04
US	33326207	R3KOL98HT0AZWW	067172472X	344790451	Legion (The Exorcist, No. 3)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	As terrifying as &quot;The Exorcist&quot;	In this (much toned down) sequel to &quot;The Exorcist&quot;, you follow the lone detective from the first book.  It is much different than the first book, and if you are looking for a book that is like &quot;The Exorcist&quot; then you wont find it here.  <br />But I am not saying that this book is not good.  In fact, it is wonderful, and just as scary as the first.  I found &quot;Legion&quot; to be much more of a psycological thriller than a flat out horror novel.  <br />I delete a star from this great book only because there are some parts that can be boring for a chapter or two.	2003-02-03
US	33326207	R3CE4Q0UX9RQQ4	0345378490	694344232	Congo	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Interesting and fun, but not one of Crichtons best	If you are looking for a good book, you will find one in &quot;Congo&quot;.  But I didnt find that it was a big page turner, Not until the end at least.  Amy the gorrilla is a wonderful creation my MC, and she even makes you laugh more than a few times in the book.  But I think that he talked about Amy a bit much.  People purchase this book expecting it to be all about huge killer grey gorillas, and its not.  It is more about searching for diamonds and the gorilla Amy than anything.  It was a good book, but not what I expected it to be.	2003-02-03
US	33326207	R9AXB27SXS4DA	0061007226	257277061	The Exorcist	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Terrifying journey that will leave you sleepless.	I watched the movie when I was in 7th grade and slept with my mother for 2 weeks.  But nothing could prepare me for the nightmares to come after reading this terrifying novel by William Peter Blatty.  <br />You are drawn into the 12 year old Regan and held there with the Demon that keeps her until you finally drop the book and have to go for a walk to get the visions out of you head.  <br />This is by far the scariest novel that I have ever, and probably will ever read.  I highly recommend this book to even the people that scare easy.  This is a piece of literature that will never die and will scare the hell out of people for generations to come.	2003-02-03
US	33326207	R31YP7VYOOGQBY	0394588169	392304217	Jurassic Park	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Beautiful and terrifying at the same time	This is the first Crichton novel I read.  After seeing the movie, that I loved, I ran to the store to get the book. Not only was the book very different from the movie, but ten times better.  It is written beautifully by MC.  This guy has one hell of an imagination that makes you feel like you are the one running from the T-Rex, screaming not to be eaten by rapters, and gasping at the huge brontosaurs.  If you enjoyed the movie, take the time to pick up this book.  It is increadible.  5 stars.	2003-02-03
US	33326207	R1BYNJHEQ989X6	0452282950	609426348	The 25th Hour	Books	5	1	4	N	N	Beautiful!...	I picked this book up because I saw the previews for the movie, and thought the movie looked good.  Being a big reader, I have learned that most books are better than the movie.  So I went and picked up a copy.  WOW.  Thats all I can really say.  It is a very short read.  I finished it in one afternoon, but mainly because I couldnt put it down.  I loved it.  The author really goes into the lives of the characters and you really feel for them.  Also, me being 21 years old, I can relate to them very much.  I thought that the characters were very believible and I felt like I was a part of their group of friends.  I would recommend this book to anyone that is just looking to pass a rainy afternoon by.  Also, this is a book I plan to read many more times in the future.  Awesome.	2003-02-03
US	33326207	R1I4PWGBSM4SEE	0671024396	590581301	The Umbrella Conspiracy (Resident Evil #1)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	All the Horror without the long hours of gaming	I read this book after I played about every version of the game and found that I was still scared.  Even though you may think that this book is targeted for kids, or gaming nerds, I think you will find that this book with leave all ages keeping the lights on at night.  <BR>Perry really brings you into the lives of the characters and gives you much more insight on what is going on than you find in the game.  When I think of a book about zombies and monsters, I think of old boring and stupid movies.  This book proves that zombies and monsters can still be very scary.  Don't pass this book up.  You will not put it down.	2003-02-03
US	33326207	REZDXGKGXC9LK	067102440X	923544373	Caliban Cove (Resident Evil #2)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Not what I wanted it to be, but has a SHOCKING ending.	I expected more out of this novel.  I fills in the blanks of what happens witht the STARS team in between the first two games.  It kept me occupied, but I wanted it to be more scary.  I thought it was more spy like than horror. <br />But I can say that the ending of this novel left me with my jaw on the ground.  Between giving the fist 3/4ths of the book 1 star and the ending 5 stars, I settled with 3 stars for the whole book.<br />If you plan on reading the whole series, you dont need to read this book, but I would anyway.	2003-02-03
US	33326207	R26N6PUQ1CSDNG	0066210801	784401617	Vagabond (The Grail Quest, Book 2)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	A great Sequel that Keeps you on your Feet	Thomas of Hookton is back in the wonderful sequel to \\"The Archer's Tale\\".  Once again, we are thrown into the raging battles of the Hundred Years War.  This book definetly lives up to the first book in the series and leaves you waiting for the third.  <BR>Its a major page turner that is very difficult to put down, even when its 2AM and you have to be at work by 7AM.  I love the middle ages and anything about them and this book is not only a novel, but a history book.  Cornwell has researched this series so well that you will find yourself pretty well known in the area of the middle ages.  As a previous Medieval Studies Major in college, I recommend this book to anyone that is interested in the time period.  Cornwell is a great storyteller, and at the same time gives a great history lesson.  A history lesson that is extremely accurate.<BR>Although the story is a slightly far fetched (thomas is looking for the holy grail thought to be held by his dead father), it is easy to look past and get pulled very tightly into the affairs he goes through and the affairs of the most brutal war in human history.<BR>Enjoy, this book is worth the money.	2003-02-03
US	33326207	R5MP6UNEHTLC8	0066210844	226416014	The Archer's Tale (The Grail Quest, Book 1)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Ever wondered what it was like to live in the MIddle Ages??	This was one heck of a book.  Cornwell did very good research on this time period even down to the weather.  For anybody interested in this time period or anybody that is even just looking for a good novel to read, Get this book.  Its great.  Trust me, I am a Medieval studies major, and it is hard to find a novel of the period that has been researched so well.  I found almost nothing wrong in the historical aspect of this book.  GREAT!!!!!	2003-01-28
US	33326207	R1KQ74Q129EP17	0394415256	855829988	The Andromeda Strain	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Well written but boring at times	I am an avid Crichton fan and have read every novel he has written.  This was his first Novel and I did find it good, but not as good as his newer ones.  It is a very interesting subject, but there are points in the novel that seem to drag on a bit to long.  I would suggest getting it and reading it, but dont expect to be hooked page to page.	2003-01-28
US	33326207	R318AMLGE6LSA0	0553260111	561287091	The Bourne Identity (Bourne Trilogy No.1)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	YOU WILL NOT PUT IT DOWN	Let me start by saying that this novel is completly different than the movie.  Not that the movie was not great, and very well done, but I thought I would put that out there.<br />Ok, now on with the review.  This is the first book in the Bourne Trillogy.  In \\"The Bourne Identity\\" we meet Jason Bourne, who by all means is lost and has no idea who he is, but has amazing abilities and knowledge that you would expect from a secret agent.  This novel is extremely fast paced with a new twist every chapter.  I will say that the writing is a little advanced and the story can be confusing, but as long as you read it strait through you will get it.  I would definetly suggest not for you to read this book on and off, if you do, you will be as lost as Jason Bourne is.  <br />You really get placed inside of Bourne's shoes in this novel, which is a great feeling when reading.  I really felt as if I was the one being chased, and could not put this book down for one minute.  I would stay up all night just find out what was going to happen next. <br />You will love this book if you are a fan of spy novels or anything by Tom Clancy.  Dont let yourself pass this novel by.	2003-01-28
US	33326207	R3U203GC8V8ZGT	0679444815	786105285	Timeline	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A History lesson inside a wonderful novel	In one word, Wonderful. I was attached from page one until the very last page. I am a Medieval studies major in college and found that Crichton was able to give a very good history lesson in this book, right down to the Old/Middle english spoken by the characters of the time.<BR>The book starts with a group of college students excavating a medieval church when their professer dissappears.  After a few days of him gone a note is found deep in the ancient church with the words \\"Help Me\\".  The writing is in their teachers handwriting.  This is just the beginning.  Soon these college kids and Medieval lovers get plunged into a world the think they know about but find that they are way off.  Dont pass this book up. I recommend it for anyone that is even remotly interested in the Middle Ages time period.	2003-01-28
US	33326207	R1Z0BFNUYAG3OB	0066214122	245555180	Prey	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Crichton Does it again!!!!!	Once again, Michael Crichton, the master of \\"Techno thrillers\\", has done it again. I could not put the book down. It was wonderful. I had heard a rumor in the book store that it was not very good, and was thinking of passing it by. Im glad that I didnt. The book kept me on my feet until the last pages, and thats what Crichton is best at. <br />\\"Prey\\" is another one of Crichton's novels that is based on bacteria sized particles, as was in \\"The Andromeda Strain\\".  This time we are faced with Nanoparticles, that are being tested to help look inside a medical patients body by forming a camera when coming together.  But what happens when the particles escape and begin to evolve and think on their own?<br />This novel is just plain chilling.  The research behind this book is wonderful, and well done, as Crichton always manages to do.  And that is what makes this so chilling.  It makes you wonder what would happen if the events of this novel really took place.  I think you will be pleased with the results of this fast paced, chilling novel.	2003-01-27
