US	33883742	R2PMF3M8VFRMJ8	1844161900	392189986	Kal Jerico: Blood Royal (Necromunda)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	If you're a fan of 40k ...	You will enjoy this tale.  I enjoyed the whole story from beginning to end.  There was good mix of intrigue and humour and unlike with some 40k novels, I came away from this feeling moderately satisfied.  This is a pleasant installment in the Necromunda series and if you're interested in reading more about what it's like to exist in the hive city, you won't be disappointed.	2005-09-28
US	33883742	RTS7DKL55OXOI	1844162311	784711589	Fifteen Hours (Warhammer 40,000)	Books	3	5	8	N	N	Bleak but poignant	I tend to read 40k fiction like a voracious predator patroling a feeding ground resplendent with a variety of prey.<br /><br />I had just finished reading the Blood Angels duology and the most recent Ciaphas Cain novel, when I started this one.  It required an immediate change in gears from the action-packed, high-energy style and pace of those novels to the slower, more reflective nature of this bleak, but poignantly realistic portrayal of life in the trenches.<br /><br />You KNOW the ending of the story immediately, but proceed to read anyways.  It's obvious from the beginning that this will be a story that illustrates the journey of an individual and the experiences that, in the end, bring things full circle to where we began.<br /><br />For those of you with any real-life experience in the military or in life-or-death conflicts, this will have a much more powerful impact on you.  Refer to the previous reviews and you will see what I mean.<br /><br />As a simple connoisseur of 40k fiction, I enjoyed this tale.  I may not have had the same level of appreciation for it as others, based on my own perspective; but I do acknowledge the talent and craft displayed in this piece of work.<br /><br />It is well worth the read.	2005-09-11
US	33883742	R1OIUDHU73O9ON	0743443268	271622038	Shadow Point (Warhammer 40,000 Novel (New York, N.Y.).)	Books	3	5	7	N	Y	It fails to deliver what it advertised, but provided a good story anyhow.	I looked forward to reading this novel after completing \\"Execution Hour\\".  It took me a while, but I managed to find a copy that did not have a price tag that threatened to burst the threadbare seams of my wallet like a brood of genestealers erupting from a fallen seed spore!<br /><br />I came away from the final page of this book, feeling an equal measure of satisfaction and disappointment.  If you read the back cover of the book, you'll notice a plot description that refers to the Blackstone Fortresses.  It never appears in the story.  It is never even alluded to in the story.  However, the story is still well-written and will inspire many BFG players.  While the series appears to be focused around the exploits of a prominent naval officer during the fabled Gothic War, this installment takes you from the awakening of an Avatar through the building tension between two mortal enemies and their attempts to form an uneasy alliance against a powerful enemy neither of them can hope to vanquish alone, and all the way up to the pivotal space battle that sees a combined force of Battlefleet Gothic and Craftworld Eldar defeating a Chaos Armada in one of the pivotal battles of that war.<br /><br />There is intrigue, deception, and insightful sequences that help bring further understanding of the internal politics that rule within Abbadon's regime, among the Craftworld Eldar, and amongst the Imperial Navy.<br /><br />Although I never found out what the Blackstone Fortress is or what significance it has, I enjoyed reading this book and would recommend it without hesitation to anyone looking for an interesting read.	2005-07-07
US	33883742	R1SCY0DUKF77BJ	1844161579	112403648	Lord of the Night (Warhammer 40,000)	Books	3	8	11	N	Y	It's an interesting tale worth reading.	It could be a little confusing in the beginning if you do not realize who's perspective the author is describing.  Once you get past this, the story develops just fine.  It is basically a tale of two diametrically opposed individuals who's paths intersect and through introspective journeys, each one discovers their own place in the 40k universe.  It is different from what they believe it to be in the beginning of the novel.  This all unfolds against the squalor, violence, intrigue, and corruption of an Imperial Hive.  Many subplots are revealed as the story progresses.  What initially begins as the story of a rampaging Chaos Marine, develops into an orchestrated series of manipulations that culminate in a conclusion that has little meaning to those swept away in the resulting carnage and cruel revelations.  The aftermath alluded to in the novel's epilogue is somewhat anticipated, but is no less poignant. Everybody is entitled to their opinion and if they choose to focus on aspects of this story they disliked, then let us mourn their lost time.  For me, this novel was yet another fine example of Simon Spurrier's talent as a storyteller.  I look forward to the sequel if it is currently in production.  I strongly recommend you read this book and if you enjoy it as much as I have, you should check out 'Fire Warrior', which gives a similar insight into the life of a Tau soldier.	2005-07-03
US	33883742	R2KQUX6785N59J	1844161129	45409039	Traitor General (Gaunt's Ghosts)	Books	4	8	9	N	Y	Like 13th Legion, but GOOD.	Dan Abnett brings another well-written story and introduces the first installment of a new arc in the Gaunt's Ghost saga.  As I continued to read each page, unable to put the book down, I slowly came to the realization that this is what Gav Thorpe's \\"Last Chancers\\" novels should've been like, instead of the lackluster manner in which they were presented and abruptly concluded.  For those of you already familiar with signature characters within the Tanith First & Only, you'll be satisfied with how the story begins and with how it develops and concludes.  I really appreciated the way the identity of the traitor was deliberately kept hidden and hinted at through subtle references, which, if you remember the details of each of the previous novels, you will quickly deduct who the Imperial turncoat is before the official reveal later in the story.<br /><br />Like in \\"Double Eagle\\", Dan Abnett masterfully lays the ground work by introducing us to the world and its people as they toil under brutal Chaos occupation with remnants of the PDF stoically carrying on an underground resistance through independent cells operating in each city and township.  In this manner, Colonel-Commissar Ibram Gaunt and his elite team of Imperial Guard mission specialists enter the story and then, things take off.<br /><br />Many intriguing new elements are revealed in this story, which undoubtedly will bear fruit in future novels inevitably fated for publication in the (hopefully) not-too-distant future.  Other elements left over from the conclusion of \\"Sabbat Martyr\\" are referred to, and by their mention, allude to possible inclusion and further development and revelations in subsequent installments in this new story arc, known as \\"The Lost\\".<br /><br />Despite what any other reviewer states in the content of their review or their title/heading, \\"Traitor General\\" is topnotch 40k fiction and every bit as good as any of the previous novels created by the masterful storytelling of Mr Abnett.<br /><br />I received this book in the mail and finished it in less than 2 days and now I ravenously await the publication of the next novel!  If you enjoy 40k fiction, enjoy a good story with well-developed characters, and specifically like stories about war, soldiery, and courage - YOU HAVE TO GET THIS BOOK.t. <br /> <br />I received this book in the mail and finished it in less than 2 days and now I ravenously await the publication of the next novel!   If you enjoy 40k fiction, enjoy a good story with well-developed characters, and specifically like stories about war, soldiery, and courage - YOU HAVE TO GET THIS BOOK.  <br />	2004-11-11
US	33883742	R21BUI2PE0U1GC	0821738534	269405012	The Vampire Odyssey	Books	3	3	3	N	Y	Actually, it's very good.	Despite the dated style of the cover art, which is representative of the period of its publication, the story is actually very engaging and I found myself liking it, despite my personal preconceptions.  Being a rapacious reader of White Wolf publications and a connoisseur (sp?) of the vampire lore / canon laid down through numerous gaming supplements and fiction series, I initially began reading this book with an arched brow and snobbish smirk on my face.  I am happy to admit that the pace, content, and overall style presented by the author was smooth and subtley provocative, plausible, and elicits an effortless assimilation and acceptance of vampires, their abilities, and the application of these concepts in moving the story forward through the next installments (which I am not done reading at the time of this review!).<br /><br />Despite what you might initially think about the concept of vampires in popular fiction, make a deliberate effort to suppress that and pick up this book.  I believe you'll find it worthwhile.	2004-11-11
US	33883742	RFOB8PP8VCTAB	1844160750	145168201	Annihilation Squad (Warhammer 40,000)	Books	2	7	7	N	Y	Disappointing	After reading about Schaeffer's Last Chancers in the Imperial Guard codex, I got my hands on a copy of Kill Team. I enjoyed Gav Thorpe's Angels of Darkness, so I had faith that Kill Team would live up to the same standards.  It did.<br /><br />Annhiliation Squad did not. The beginning is a bit disorienting and there is a noticeable lack of character development that made the previous novel interesting. Much of the plot development is meandering and monotonous.  The epic backdrop of the 3rd Armageddon War can't even invigorate this lackluster story.  In the last 3rd of the book there are some intriguing twists that immediately spiral into a miasmic convolution that abruptly terminates like a piece of rotten fruit hitting a concrete wall.  You read the last sentence and turn the page, thinking there will be another paragragh or new chapter and realize that the story is just ... over!<br /><br />I won't speculate why it ended the way it did, but it was disappointing.	2004-09-26
US	33883742	R3NNZBISG1MXLL	1844160920	933892638	Legacy (Warhammer 40,000)	Books	3	5	5	N	Y	Trust me, it's worth it.	Having read Crossfire, I was very eager to sink my teeth into the sequel. I've always been interested in the Adeptus Arbites and like how Matthew Farrer brings the reader into their world. In Legacy, we are introduced to the enigmatic figure of the Rogue Trader. In other novels, the rogue trader has been described as every from an unscrupulous privateer, to covert assets of the Inquisition.  Farrer presents a historical figure empowered by Imperial Charter to expand the boundaries of the Imperium and who is often times gifted with the independence and unilateral ability to do whatever they want. This ability sets the stage for an engaging story, filled with characters that we grow to care for and develop an interest in until the very last page. Although the novel is part of the Shira Calpurnia series, her character is featured less in this story.  The elements that drive the plot to its ultimate conclusion are what make the story so compelling. No need to worry, though, because Shira will play her part in this tale and for those of you who thought this book was too short; I share your opinion.  I'll admit that the ending initially disappointed me, but after further reflection, I found that it was a much better way to end the story.  Read it and make up your own mind ;)<br /><br />For those of you who feel this book did not live up to the quality of it predecessor; we'll just have to respectfully disagree :)  For those of you who are considering this book, I highly recommend it.  If you have already read Crossfire, I believe you will enjoy this just as much!	2004-09-26
US	33883742	R1X00CXQZRT7II	0743443535	645463431	Daemon World (Warhammer 40,000 Novels)	Books	3	7	8	N	Y	Interesting.	If you participate in the tabletop gaming hobby that this novel is based on, you should enjoy this.  If you begin reading this book with the same degree of interest in how a Chaos world functions as I did, then hopefully, you will travel through each description with a similar level of patience, objectivity, and warranted awe.<br /><br />Ben Counter's descriptive style is on par with the best writers Games Workshop/The Black Library have to offer. He was able to develop different characters that drove parallel plotlines and expertly tied them together as the story came to its conclusion. The surreal battle sequences are described with the masterful strokes of a painter, revealing vivid images within the mind's eye.  Some of the battle sequences bring to mind a hypothetical synergy of 'Battle of the Pelennor Fields' in the Return of the King movie, drybrushed by Pinhead from 'Hellraiser'.  It is epic in scale and for those of you who have sympathetic leanings toward the 40k concept of 'Chaos', you will understand when I say that many passages in the book are equally repulsive/seductive.<br /><br />Other novels by Ben Counter, include \\"Grey Knights\\" or \\"The Bleeding Chalice\\". Both are equally as memsmerizing.	2004-09-26
US	33883742	RC9EQHMJSXRKA	0671784102	927004757	Ghostmaker: A Gaunt's Ghosts Novel (Warhammer 40,000)	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	A story well-told, a component to a masterpiece ...	Before I begin, I want to explain that 4 stars out of 5 is the highest rating I am willing to give.  For me to give a 5 out of 5 rating for any book, it needs to be singularly profound in the effect it has on me.  Since this novel is part of a series (as yet incomplete), I am not prepared to give it such recognition. However, I wholeheartedly endorse Dan Abnett as one of the best, if not THE BEST writer for Games Workshop and the Black Library.<br />&quot;Ghostmaker&quot; is the second installment of the Gaunt's Ghost series and to me, it seems like the single most important book in the series in terms of introducing us to certain signature characters.  There are flashbacks to key events between Gaunt and each of these characters.  It helps cement their place within the regiment and their unique relationship with the Colonel-Commissar.  The main story taking place in the book is also noteworthy.  You will be given a glimpse into the Inquisition and inquisitor Lilith, as well as, a first person perspective of one of WH40K's popular Xenos races, the Craftworld Eldar.  The descriptions of war, internecine feuds, and general grist and gristle of a universe driven by incessant conflict will provide intriguing and engaging reading for everyone who appreciates such literary fare.  If this is the first book you read from the series, I am sure you will end up ordering or otherwise trying to lay your hands on other books from the series as soon as you finish reading the final sentence on the final page of this one.  It is that good. And who ever said more of a good thing was bad, eh?	2004-04-25
US	33883742	RWEI4QYOD427R	1844160823	1877704	Straight Silver (Gaunt's Ghosts)	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	Trench warfare, entrenchment of ideology, battlefield heros	Like Necropolis, Dan Abnett introduces us to the society of the host planet where the story takes place.  We meet a worn veteran of the planet's decades-long war traveling to the local capitol.  Through personal observations and reflections of this character, we learn about the history and mind set of the locals, which we know will play prevalently in the unfolding of the plot.  Once again, the story truly begins once Imperial Forces arrive from orbit.  From there it's an ongoing illustration of the entrenchment of military doctrine going against all attempts to evolve, resulting in stalemate upon the battlefield and nearly contributing to the victory of Chaos forces secretly bolstering the strength and tactics of the local enemies.  Once again, Dan Abnett weaves a tale composed of numerous individual experiences where human beings overcome or are overwhelmed by adverse circumstances, emerging from the receding tide as heroes (martyred or surviving as the case may be) or tragic examples of human failings.  There is little mention or description of Chaos in this story, rather it's solely about individuals and how they deal with the futility of their situations.  It is a collective account of perserverence.  There is a segment in the story where Gaunt is able to get half of his regiment taken off the brutal front lines and assigned to some &quot;lighter&quot; duty geared more towards their light infantry skills.  In his mind, it is a glass half full - to be able to save at least half of his troops from the mindless butchery of the trenches.  There are numerous other character-driven episodes in the book that will add to your appreciation of the story.  I could go on, but I will complete this review by saying, that no matter what kind of subject matter you prefer in a novel, you will not be disappointed by this.	2004-04-25
US	33883742	R16CWBK8YN3X45	0743411595	485580251	Necropolis (Warhammer 40,000 Novels)	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	Inspiring examples of the resiliency of the human spirit ...	This book tells the collective story of how humanity can rise up from the deepest depths of despair to grab victory from the closing jaws of defeat, rallying the besieged to acts of heroism, self-sacrifice, and glory.<br />Reading this book reminded me of WWII accounts of cities holding fast against invading armies. The individual tales of courage and devotion to duty in the face of overwhelming odds, were uplifting and awe-inspiring.  It strengthened the respect and gratitude felt towards those realworld veterans of our countries past wars.  For those of you familiar with WH40K, you will thoroughly enjoy the battle sequences and the &quot;fluff&quot; included regarding the overall Crusade and the seemingly small part played by the Tanith First-and-Only.  The descriptions of the Hive city and its vastness are wondrous, making me wish some ambitious director (Peter *cough* Jackson *cough*) would take this series to their hearts and bring it to the big screen.  I would thoroughly enjoy watching this on film.  It would be like taking HBO's &quot;Band of Brothers&quot;, George Lucas's &quot;Star Wars&quot;, and Ridley Scott's &quot;Gladiator&quot; and melding them into a 7-8 part mini-series or a series of movies 2 1/2 to 3 hours long!  The way Dan Abnett brings us into the individual experiences of front line soldiers, helps bring to us both the horrible carnage and waste of war, as well as the tremendous courage, fortitude, and devotion of duty and faith that are the heart and soul of every trooper of the Imperial Guard (and PDF of Verghast)!  The beginning of the book is wonderfully written, first bringing us into the local politics and what appears like a simple conflict between two rival Hive cities, then accelerating the story along as war breaks out and the stalwart, but horribly outclassed defenders are forced to call for aid from off planet.  This whole segment of the book is more like a prologue, as the actual story begins with the arrival of the Imperial Forces.  To give us perspective, it is immediately made apparent that the Tanith First-and-Only are perceived as a mere specialist regiment of stealth troops, given low status among the other higher profile regiments of the task force assigned to Verghast.  As you might expect, their significance changes dramatically, paralleling the prominence of their commander.  Now, if I could just find a way for them to work better on the game table! (But that's for another forum)  Whether you enjoy war stories, Sci-Fi, WH40K, or simply a well-written story with well-developed characters and an engaging plot - you WILL enjoy this book.es.  To give us perspective, it is immediately made apparent that the Tanith First-and-Only are perceived as a mere specialist regiment of stealth troops, given low status among the other higher profile regiments of the task force assigned to Verghast.  As you might expect, their significance changes dramatically, paralleling the prominence of their commander.  Now, if I could just find a way for them to work better on the game table! (But that's for another forum)  Whether you enjoy war stories, Sci-Fi, WH40K, or simply a well-written story with well-developed characters and an engaging plot - you WILL enjoy this book.	2004-04-25
US	33883742	RXVKIOJ1BU8O0	0743443608	318780289	Sabbat Martyr (Gaunt's Ghosts)	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	I hope this is not the last ...	Dan Abnett is an exceptional writer.  I have read 'Xenos' and now, all of the Gaunts Ghosts novels.  They are all very entertaining and engaging stories.  I agree with other reviewers about the limit imposed by the publishers regarding the length of these novels.  I would appreciate an increase of their page total, if only to have more to read!  When I begin each novel in the series, I am faced with a conundrum.  I want to read it so much, I cannot put it down, and I want to savor each paragragh, yet know that before I know it I will come to the Epilogue and it will be over all-too-quickly.  That is the typical experience when you read an Abnett novel.  It's like a fine dessert.  You dive into it with relish and consume each morsel with gusto and when finished, you lament the fact that there is no more.  I fervently hope there will be another novel to further chronicle the adventures of the Tanith First-And-Only.  It would be a shame to end their story now.  I would (and most likely will) read the entire series again if left with nothing else; the series is so good.  If you are unfamiliar with the history of the characters in this particular book, it will not take anything away from your enjoyment or appreciation of the story.  Each book in the series is comprehensive enough to stand on its own without any problem.  If anything, those of you who are introduced to Colonel-Commissar Ibram Gaunt and his 'Ghosts' in this novel, will undoubtably be driven to acquire the previous novels.  I began with 'The Guns of Tanith', which is the 5th installment and went back and read 'The First And Only' so I could see where it all began.  In 'Sabbat Martyr', you will experience plenty of detailed accounts of close quarter fighting, naval engagements in the vaccuum of space, and the exhilarating examples of heroism, tenacity, and outright carnage that is inherent in any war.  If I could use a tangible reference for what this series compares to, I would use the HBO miniseries, 'Band of Brothers' to illustrate the literary quality of this body of work.  You will grow to know and care for each of the signature characters within the regiment. Each of you will have a different person or persons that will draw your attention and further your interest.  From 'The First And Only' up to 'Sabbat Martyr', you will follow the progression of these individuals and mourn their falls or celebrate their triumphs.  Finally, if Dan Abnett never comes out with another installment, you will most likely envision their potential future and where they ultimately finish up.  Either way, this book and those preceding it are well worth your time.of Brothers' to illustrate the literary quality of this body of work.  You will grow to know and care for each of the signature characters within the regiment. Each of you will have a different person or persons that will draw your attention and further your interest.  From 'The First And Only' up to 'Sabbat Martyr', you will follow the progression of these individuals and mourn their falls or celebrate their triumphs.  Finally, if Dan Abnett never comes out with another installment, you will most likely envision their potential future and where they ultimately finish up.  Either way, this book and those preceding it are well worth your time.	2004-04-17
US	33883742	RP7L20EIIRMZM	1588468550	52338904	Gehenna: The Final Night (Vampire: The Masquerade)	Books	4	12	12	N	Y	Poignant, hopeful, mysterious, enlightening...	I have read most (if not all) of the narrative fiction produced for the Vampire line and this is another well-written addition to my collection.<br />Cainite society begins to unravel as elders grow weak and begin to feed on neonates, while thin-bloods rise to power in cities once held by the Sabbat and Camarilla.  Ancient powers awaken and stalk the night, leaving behind piles of dust and stories of a scourging desert wind and a roaming darkness from the Abyss.<br />Certain signature characters from previous stories are brought back to face the coming Apocalypse together.  Beckett, Theo Bell, Lucita, and even Anatole figure prominently throughout the book.  Other notable characters are given cameos, which help to further the plot and add a bit of flavour.  The rise of the Thin-bloods is interesting, in that they provide hope that there could possibly be a remnant that survives Gehenna to rebuild from the ashes of the old.  This is something spoken of by Beckett, to Jenna Cross, the Last Daughter - leader of the Thinbloods.<br />There is one character that is introduced early in the story, who is unfamiliar, but ultimately someone very important. The process of this discovery is executed well, so it isn't until you're close to the end that the realization hits you between the eyes!<br />I have to agree with some of the other reviewers, in that I too, wish the story could've been expanded on and potentially stretched out into a trilogy or series (like the Eastcoast Camarilla/Sabbat War).<br />I recently finished reading the Brujah Trilogy, which appeared to be a prelude to this book - so I half expected to see some of the plotline and characters from the end of that story to carry over to this one - but that did not happen.  It left at least ONE question left unanswered for me.  That isn't necessarily bad.<br />Certain characters from other Gehenna-Prophecy novels were noticeably absent here too.  The Nosferatu, Kli Kodesh would've been an interesting character to have at end.  The Cappadocian Archmage, Lameth would've been another enjoyable tie-in as well.<br />Anyhow, like I've often said before about these novels - the well-written stories can easily be taken out of the &quot;vampire&quot; context and dropped in the middle of a mundane, blunted world of normalcy and still pack just as much relevancy and interest.  This is one of those stories.  In truth, it's a collection of numerous short stories, all bound within the larger story about a mythical individual who travels in the company of one of his own descendants and learns that there are still redeemable qualities within his line and there is still more to learn and live through.to have at end.  The Cappadocian Archmage, Lameth would've been another enjoyable tie-in as well.<br />Anyhow, like I've often said before about these novels - the well-written stories can easily be taken out of the &quot;vampire&quot; context and dropped in the middle of a mundane, blunted world of normalcy and still pack just as much relevancy and interest.  This is one of those stories.  In truth, it's a collection of numerous short stories, all bound within the larger story about a mythical individual who travels in the company of one of his own descendants and learns that there are still redeemable qualities within his line and there is still more to learn and live through.	2004-03-15
US	33883742	R2I1QMZP68S582	1588462765	975903321	Dark Ages Vampire (Vampire: The Dark Ages)	Books	4	13	16	N	Y	Wonderful	This book is a wonderful introduction to the revised Dark Ages line.  I approach every single book less like a player and more like an afficionado of the World of Darkness product line.  I like the background and &quot;fluff&quot; more than the mechanics and how it applies to the roleplaying.  In this regard, the book is rich in information about each of the clans and how they fit into Medieval times.  The art work is visually appealing, which is something I cannot say about some of the clanbooks.  If you acquire this book and like it, I would recommend collecting the follow-up volumes 'Guide to the Low Clans' &amp; 'Guide to the High Clans', each of which &quot;flesh-out&quot; each clan and their identity during that period of time.<br />If you were looking for a review on the mechanics and how this applies to roleplaying, et cetera ad infinitum ... I apologize because I only look that over for ideas I can use in an entirely different genre of game play ;)<br />But from what I did look over, it is well written and easy enough to understand for someone who isn't a bonafide roleplayer (let alone a diehard gamer).	2004-01-22
US	33883742	R2PRYTXNTIL639	1588468178	538492803	Nosferatu (Dark Ages, Clan Novel #1)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Good start to an interesting series.	The historical setting of Nosferatu is a good place to begin this series.  The sack of Constantinople marks a turning point in history and marks the end of an era, for both Cainite society and human civilizations.  Refugees flee the burning city, while a new power supplants the old.  Thus is introduced Malachite, leader of one of the scion families formerly of the Triumvirate, which has fallen with the loss of Michael and the disappearance of the Dracon.<br />Malachite attempts to salvage what is left of The Dream and believes the key to this lies in finding the Dracon.  We are introduced to some important characters who will be central in novels following Nosferatu in the series.  The telling of Malachite's embrace and the independent scenes involving examples of savagery and heroism are well written and create vivid pictures with words.  If you removed the vampire element, this book would still be an engaging book to read ~ the fact that the characters are vampires give them additional depth and afford the author creative latitude in weaving a wonderful tale that is worth the telling.<br />Get this book and begin a journey that will leave you wanting to learn more about many of the things introduced on each page.  You won't be disappointed.	2003-12-28
US	33883742	R3MY7FFOSGFZ57	0061057541	18473604	Byzantium	Books	5	13	14	N	Y	Excellent.  Abyssmal.  Epic.  Full of Wonder.	I read Taliesin and Merlin, both by Lawhead well over 10 years ago .. and feel like an idiot that I no longer own those books.  I have to admit that 2 things sold this book for me.  The cover illustration and the synopsis on the back.  Okay, 3 things.  I like stories based around historical events or during historical periods.  Byzantium. Wow.<br />Portions of this book bring to mind, The Lord of the Rings as well as other epic novels based on that particular genre of storytelling.<br />From the very beginning, we are introduced to the way of life and limited life experience of the Aiden, princeling turned priest.  His simple lifestyle may appeal to many of us, even though we outwardly deny the fact.  The changes that he goes through as his travels land him in a new situation are wonderful to see.  The characters we come into contact with are interesting and as the story progresses, they begin to take on more dimension, which is unfortunately lacking so much in many commercialized stories today, whether in print or on film.<br />The historical references are captivating, from the Irish monastery, Viking society, Byzantine politics, and Islamic culture.  Each of these mark a milestone in the metamorphasis of Aiden and ultimately epitomize the awakening most of us go through/never do/or wish we did.<br />This is a book that should some day be brought to the screen.  I have to admit that as I came to the final pages, I felt some regret and bittersweet understanding that while the end of the road is near, all things require closure.  Adventures reach their conclusion.  We each go our own way, some we will never see again.  However, there will always be the memory of the experience and in this case you need not look further than your own bookshelf.  BUY this book.  EXPERIENCE it.  And keep it for those times when you wish to rekindle that which once burned brightly, if even only for a moment.<br />Okay.  I liked the story.	2003-12-28
US	33883742	R1RDCZ0CEM6MEJ	1588468321	984495288	Dark Ages Brujah (DA Clan Novel 8) (World of Darkness)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Undead Power Games in the Middle Ages ...	This book is excellent.  You could remove the vampires and it would be the same.  Excellent plot with equally well-written characters.  The vampire element adds flavour!  And the medieval setting is wonderful, because it cloaks everything in a sense of history.<br />I truly admire the way relationships are illustrated between vampiric characters ( siblings in the blood / vampiric allies ) and vampiric characters and their mortal retinues.  Especially the sense of protectorship that the Brujah protagonist harbours for her mortal servants/ghouls.  The machinations of various clandestine powermongers and political players is engaging and makes for a substantive read from start to finish.<br />Like I said earlier ~ the plot could be taken straight from a more mundane story set with exclusively mortal characters within the same time frame and it would be just as compelling.  It's truly a well-done piece of storytelling.  Bravo!<br />This novel is yet another in a series of well-written stories in the Dark Ages line.  I look forward to Toreador with barely contained anticipation.	2003-12-21
US	33883742	RTE8HTMLU2GR9	158846816X	641169882	Vampire: The Puppetmasters (Clan Brujah Trilogy, Book 3 / World of Darkness / White Wolf Paperback)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	The Final Nights are upon us ...	This final book to the Brujah (Slave) Trilogy is a good read. I may be wrong, but it's also a nice precursor to the Time of Judgement novel that will bring a close to the World of Darkness (Gehenna).  Sorry, if this is a spoiler for some - but I doubt it is ;)<br />Elements that are hinted at in the previous 2 books are fleshed out and revealed in this one, while others are left unanswered. We meet some notable characters from WoD lore, as well as experience some interesting plot developments that will keep the reader engaged from start to finish.<br />The Final Nights are upon us ...	2003-12-21
US	33883742	R1A8JJ4VJQ4JR2	1588468186	189369945	Dark Ages: Assamite	Books	5	5	5	N	N	They are not just a clan of Assassins	Many years ago I was introduced briefly to WoD Vampire lore by a friend who actually participated in the roleplaying game.  As a layman I only retained a fraction of the information I was exposed to .... however a one of the things I remembered was that the Assamites were a clan of Vampire assassins.  Period. End of lesson.  Well, in this installment of the Vampire Dark Ages Clan series - you will learn that they are much more than simple killers for hire.  You will learn that Assamite sorcerors exist and they are given a grudging level of respect as well as suspicion by their own clanmates.  There are viziers, who appear to be the scholars of Alamut.  Then there are the commonly known warriors, of which there are further classifications within this caste that denote status and level of skill in the deadly arts.  Another interesting element of this book, is a Ventrue knight who struggles to reconcile his devout faith and chivalry with his vampiric nature.  Gifted with the charisma and presence of his bloodline, this Cainite Crusader builds an army destined to reclaim the Holy Land.  A group of Assamites are dispatched to ensure this does not happen.  Paths cross and the unexpected results.  It is a well-written story that could be used as a template for any genre, but uses the threads of human history, the struggle to find meaning and faith, and compelling characters to weave a story that is engaging and illuminating.  In my opinion, these novels far surpass the previous series in quality and content.  Do not let your experience with those books prevent you from reading these.  If you are interested in Medieval history, this book and the other in the series will definitely prove worthwhile.	2003-05-31
US	33883742	R7LDR30PWJKIN	1588468208	281999047	Dark Ages: Lasombra	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Lasombra Machinations ....	I've been following the Dark Ages series since DA:Nosferatu and this latest installment is wonderful.  It continues the saga of the War of Princes set in the tumultuous times following the sacking of Constantinople and the fall of Michael the Patriarch.  In the aftermath, various factions of the Lasombra clan are maneuvering for ascendency in lieu of the vacuum left by the Toreador Methuselah's destruction and the disappearance of the Dracon.  The Nosferatu elder, Malachite is reluctant to step forward and shoulder leadership of New Rome, so it is left to Scions of Matrid, Venice, and Genoa to execute their own moves from within the shadows.  Intrigue is a classic tool of the clan better known as The Keepers.  We are introduced to some new characters from other clans, who no doubt will factor prominently in future installments of this clan series set in the Middle Ages.  David Niall Wilson is an excellent writer of this genre of fiction and does not disappoint in this latest endeavour.  I highly recommend this book, as well as the Grails Covenant Trilogy - also written by David Niall Wilson.  To read about human history seen from the perspective of vampires is very intoxicating and White Wolf has a coterie of authors that will dazzle you with their ability to enfold each tale with exquisite mastery and adherence to WoD canon.  Get this book!	2003-05-30
US	33883742	R3TEDYKOQBITQE	158846282X	242390168	Dark Ages: Inquisitor	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The Dark Medieval and the Shadow Inquisition!	This resource guide to role-playing a member of the Shadow Inquisition is an excellent read.  From beginning to end, it is a wonderfully comprehensive guide to the various types of Inquisitors, from the crusading knights to the sisters with their prophetic visions.  The history that is presented and the background of each of the major groups of Inquisitors is presented with plenty of depth.  My reasons for reading this book are not for the purposes of either roleplaying or running a campaign, but I can see where the material in this book could possibly provide a wonderul companion piece for the core book Dark Ages Vampire.  An entire chapter is given over to understanding the psyche of the Middle Ages and there are sections that portray individual stories told by, or involving signature characters from the Dark Medieval - which will end up appearing in upcoming Dark Ages novels ;)<br />The artwork is topnotch from outside cover to black n' white full page prints.  This book is an excellent example of the entire Dark Ages line of material and in my opinion, FAR outshines the Masquerade - Modern Nights.  Of course, I'm biased since I find the Middle Ages to be a much more interesting time.<br />This book is a jewel to have on any bookshelf and will present hours of interesting reading and provide an invaluable resource for everything from gaming to simply coming up with YOUR OWN Dark Ages novel (who knows?).  Bottom line - get_this_book.	2003-05-28
US	33883742	R3JY1HZOB10OEO	1565048873	676782864	Clan Lasombra Trilogy: Sacrifices (Vampire: The Masquerade)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Exquisite Journey of the Spirit...	I first came across Lucita on a website providing signature characters from each WoD Masquerade clan.  After that I fell across her in the Lasombra Clan Novel from the Clan Series.  She was cool then, but this Lasombra Trilogy really gave her more dimension and Bruce Baugh really unfolded a wonderful story that could be used as a template for any character from any particular genre of literature. I liked the seemingly inside look into the machinations of the Lasombra clan and their Amici Noctis / Les amis noir / Brether Nokw / Friends of the Night<br />and the inclusion of Lasombra of note, such as Gratiano, Montano, and Zarathustra - the Cainite ruler of Antioch. If you're into Abyssal Mysticism, the Fallacy of Gratiano's daublerie of the Lasombra Antediluvian, or a keener understanding of the sociology of Sabbat packs and the power struggles that crown or depose an Archbishop ... you'll truly find this 3rd and final installment of the trilogy a satisfying final bite of a delicious dessert.  I found it much more fitting an end to the protagonist's &quot;journey&quot;  then what was presented in the Tremere trilogy .. with Antigone Baines.  But then I may have simply missed the point.<br />I highly recommend you read all three books in this trilogy and even go on to acquire more resource material on the Lasombra.	2003-05-28
US	33883742	R33TW190A1JBR8	1565049977	841669748	To Dream of Dreamers Lost :The Grails Covenant, Book 3	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	Interesting Read ... leaving more questions than answers.	I followed the exploits of Montrovant through numerous decades and three books to see this trilogy through to its conclusion.  I am also reading the follow-up trilogy set in the modern nights, called the Trilogy of the Blood Curse - which chronologically precedes the serial set of Clan Novels (13 total).<br />I am intrigued by the introduction of new characters and the way the quest ends for our protagonist.  I do not know if it was something worked out between Gherbod Fleming and David Niall Wilson, but it seems like certain things were purposely left unexplained, as well as certain other things left \\"open\\" ....<br />(I'll let you read the book judge for yourself)<br />One thing I liked was the way David Niall Wilson presented the relationships between certain key character pairings/groupings.  Examples include Montrovant and his childe, LeDuc and an aspirant to the Bitter Ash, called Abraham and his childe of necessity - Fleurette.  In a novel populated in majority by emotionless, cold-hearted corpses ... you will come across moments of recognizable \\"human\\" sentiment expressed by these blood-drinking predators.<br />Overall, I felt it was a worthwhile read.  The historical setting contributed a lot to the flavour of the prose.  The inherent mystery surrounding the Holy Grail and other mystical artifacts provide much for the reader to digest.  The brotherhood of knights founded by Kli Kodesh is also an enigma worth further exploration (provided there are authors up to the task).  What happens to the Knights of the Bitter Ash?  In a world of darkness, it is not always easy to determine who is \\"good\\" and who is \\"evil\\".  There are many shades of gray.  If you are interested in the Grail, the Inquisition, the Dark Ages, or a simply well written story - get this book. (I'd recommend you get the previous 2 books in the trilogy as well!)	2003-05-12
US	33883742	R24QIHBA57RCQP	1565042638	829927329	Guide to the Sabbat: A Sourcebook for Vampire the Masquerade	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	Sabbat: Vampiric Darwinists .. Meritocracy.  Yeah.	Before I read this book, I knew very little about the Sabbat.  From what little I could gather from various websites, it appeared to be a formalized gathering of anarchists, antitribu, Tzimisce, Lasombra, and other malcontents who chose to set themselves up as an opposition sect to the Camarilla.  Masquerade? BAH!  Kine are food.  Allow your hunger to run rampant through the streets of the mortal world.  Who cares? Gehenna is approaching and we must prepare ourselves for the coming battle.  Ok.  This book is much more than that.  It outlines a much more involved code, rituals, and sociology.  The Vaulderie and Vinculum bonds that result from it ... illustrate a genuine sense of vampiric camaraderie that may be imposed in the beginning, but that allows for disparate individuals to coalesce into efficient operatives dedicated to a mutual cause and immediate goal.  In many ways the Sabbat is portrayed as a coalition of Cainite revolutionaries espousing understandably \\"human\\" traits, such as strength, loyalty, cooperation, and in some ways .... equity and order.  They just approach things from a different perspective than the Camarilla.  I agree with other reviewers who state that this book will provide more depth and dimension to the Sabbat, and if you roleplay and wish to start a Sword of Caine character - this is a resource you absolutely must acquire!	2003-05-12
US	33883742	RFUINWW3RLB5B	1565048199	402902989	Clan Novel Malkavian *OP (Vampire: The Masquerade Clanbooks)	Books	2	3	3	N	N	Looking through the eyes of a Prophet ...	Knowing this book was about a clan known for their mental instability, I approached it with more of an open mind and with a larger reserve of tolerance and patience.  Unlike the book 'Catcher in the Rye', I made it through to the conclusion of this story.  The entire story follows the disjointed musings of the Prophet of Gehenna as he goes from one place to another in search of something even he doesn't truly know.  Often times the same scene will be replayed from a different perspective to lend a more understandable vision of what has transpired within the story.  If these weren't included, I doubt I would've had the literary fortitude to complete the book.  If it were the author's intent to illustrate the World of Darkness through the stereotypical perception of a Malkavian who is also held captive by his own prophetic visions, then it was a well articulated piece of work.  There's really no other way to come away from this book with anything less than a feeling of total confusion.<br />If anything, reading this book will challenge your ability to decipher prophecy and translate that which is not communicated with a commonly expected level of elucidation.<br />If you are looking for a straight-forward ...the commonly expected plot, action, and demonstration of WoD mechanics, et cetera - than you might want to take a look at Clanbook:Malkavian FIRST before reading Clan Novel:Malkavian.<br />If you understand, accept, and actually favour the inner workings of the Malkavian mind - get this book.	2003-05-12
US	33883742	RQNG96LSZ7AQR	1588462013	914785208	Clanbook: Lasombra	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	Solid Resource	I developed an interest in the Lasombra clan from reading about them in various works of fiction by White Wolf authors.  This book was wonderful in providing more background on the beginnings, history, and beliefs of the clan known as 'The Keepers'.  It is a good resource for getting into the mindset of a Lasombra character.  I am not a role-player, but if I were I would recommend this book based on the many templates provided.  They start with mortals from all walks of life and give you something substantial with which to begin to build your character as it enters the World of Darkness.  The material is interesting, the artwork supports the material, and overall - it's easy to understand.  If you want to learn more about the clan, then this is a book you will want to add to your library of resources.	2003-05-04
US	33883742	R18FL4P2UWWEGA	1565049950	274074637	To Sift Through Bitter Ashes (The Grails Covenant , No 1)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Intriguing storyline, compelling historical background!	I'm new to V:tM but find myself swept away with a fervent intellectual passion for the material.  If you're a hardcore gamer, a follower of vampire literature, interested in religious history, or simply like a well-written story - then this series will spark your interest.  It takes place around the time of the Crusades and follows one possible backstory of the Knights Templars.  You'll be introduced to the V:tM Vampire clan known as the Lasombra and an enigmatic duo(I will let you figure out who I'm referring to) which engage in a millenia encompassing fencing match of immortal chess.  All sorts of questions come up in regards to Occult history, etc.  It will entertain you and pose questions to those of us who have an open mind and an appetite for knowledge.	2002-12-24
