US	33930616	RICVGWP4B107N	0195517709	559573763	South Australian Words: From Bardi-Grubs to Frog Cakes	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	A treasury of words from Aboriginal vocabulary to Cornish	This work is yet another great accomplishment of the Australian National Dictionary Centre. It is a welcome addition to any serious library of Australian culture and complements the previous  important works such as 'Tassie Terms' and 'Words from the West', etc. Indeed the author has also made an important contribution to the  other companion volume 'Words of Queensland' and she needs no introduction. The title  of this collection is taken from two random entries: the former referring to a variety of edible larvae and the latter a kind of food (perhaps coined by analogy with toad in the hole?). The dictionary presents historical Australian dialect from the South rather than a general collection of  modern colloquial 'Aussie Strine' (for which other excellent Dinkum Ozzie slang dictionaries should be consulted).      This dictionary presents not one but seven seperate glossaries all of which constitute the distinct form(s) of Australian English which is spoken in South Australia. The first section includes some fascinating entries derived from the various Aboriginal languages which are spoken in this particular territory. Many of these pertain to unique animal species such as the 'kowari' and the 'tarkawarra', varieties of fruit like the 'karkalla' and even ususual weapons like the 'katta'. There is also the word 'kirra' which is the local name for the boomerang.      The second glossary contains vocabulary that pertains to the colonial era and convicts. For instance,  it is in this glossary we learn that the nickname for South Australians 'Croweaters' derives from the belief that the early colonists were believed to eat crows. The third rich glossary is perhaps one of the most interesting sections of the book. This lists a wide range of Cornish Dialect words which were brought to Australia by the Cousin Jacks ( the world's greatest miners). Naturally, many of the entries in this section e.g. 'bal friend' (workmate - from 'bal' meaning mine) are related to the mining industry yet there are also  a great deal of other interesting words that provide details about other aspects of Cornish culture and food etc. In some cases dialectologists will notice a distinct use of certain phrases as well as unique Cornish Australian words that are not met in the actual Cornish Dialect forms as spoken in Cornwall. There are even some words in this section which are derived not from the Cornish Dialect but from the old Cornish Language itself.       The next fascinating section constitutes a glossary of words used by the German Lutheran immigrants. One dialect (Barossa Deutsch) is more similar to standard German than the analogous Pennsylvanian 'Dutch'  still spoken in America. Due to the integration of this interesting community with their neighbours, many of the words are understood even by non-German South Australians. Indeed, they have even coined terms like 'German' cake' and 'German wagon' by allusion to this community. The remaining three sections are entitled 'Wealth from the Land', 'The Outback' and 'The Lifestyle State' and the content  of each is equally of interest. The seven sections in all provide approximately 500 fascinating and little-known entries, all of which are explained in detail. Etymologies usually accompany the terms and pertinent quotations are invariably cited to illustrate their use. This is an essential reference tool not only for lovers of Australian culture but also for anyone interested in dialectology and folklore.	2005-08-05
US	33930616	RLK1COQB3O4RK	1860570755	174592426	Mebyon Kernow & Cornish Nationalism	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A tribute to a fascinating small yet great nation	Most people are aware of the great historical contribution of the Cousin Jacks - amongst the finest miners in the world  without whose expertise the  tin, copper and gold mining industries in USA and Australia would not have succeeded. These expert craftsmen came from  Cornwall in the British Isles but were not English. They were Cornish! Their rich dialect was just one of the many basic differences between them and the other immigrants from Britain. Today Cornish people are  still proud of their differences - their culture, their history and most of all their LANGUAGE.     It would be anachronistic to use the term Cornish Language  in application to the Cousin Jacks/ Cornish miners who came to America in the C19th.  They spoke a dialect full of Cornish-derived vocabulary and may well have known many Cornish words. However, the Cornish Language had already died at least a century earlier, buried with the old lady Dorothy Pentreath in 1777 - she is traditionally reputed as being the last native speaker. While the beautiful and rich Cornish Dialect (as opposed to the Cornish Language) has never really died, the Cornish Language, like Modern Hebrew, has been successfully resurrected. Today there are  a few thousand Cornishmen and Cornish ladies who can actually  speak the ancient language of their forefathers ( a lovely mysterious language akin to Welsh and Breton) and there are even monoglot toddlers brought up in Cornish-speaking families who have not yet learnt English.      It is no wonder that with this acute sense of cultural identity which  is evident in Cornwall, the Cornish people feel a great sense of national pride. Perhaps a logical progression from reviving their language was to revive a sense of national identity. It is therefore not surprising to see that many Cornish people today for cultural and historical reasons would like to see Cornwall (or Kernow as they call their beautiful land) independent from the rest of Britain and an autonomous state analogous with the Republic of Ireland. The Cornish people's nationalism is not a nationalism like that of Nazi Germany, despising other races; it is rather a sense of national awareness of  and pride in their own culture. While most Cornishmen adamantly insist (correctly so) that they are NOT English, in no way do they have any prejudice against the English; indeed English visitors are invariably made most welcome and are often the first to appreciate the unique distinctiveness that is apparent as soon as they cross the Tamar into Cornwall.      The Cornish form of nationalism wishes to see Cornwall as an independent state with a Cornish Assembly living, as ever, in harmony with her English neighbours and friends, not in adversity. It would like through political means to achieve something similar to the  bloodless Velvet Revolution that separated the Czechs from the very similar Slovaks (yet culturally the Cornish and English are much more distinct). This book is a readable and analytical examination of the Cornish struggle for independence and in particular a careful historical account of the Cornish National Party and Mebyon Kernow (literally 'sons of Cornwall'). Voters of this party (like  voters for the Welsh equivalent Plaid Cymru) should feel satisfied that they can bear no share of the responsibility for Tony Blair's immoral invasion of Iraq (and for the ensuing terrorist reprisals which this evil man has provoked). Cornish Nationalism, like Welsh Nationalism is in its essence a pacifist ideology and Cornish national identity is expressed through living one's rich culture and language not in violence.      In history it is true that the Cornish were at times actively involved in battles against their English oppressors. The best example is the Cornish Rebellion of C15th in which a small host of 2,000 heroic Cornishmen were defeated by a much larger army just because they refused to pay an unjust tax to finance a war of aggression against Scotland. The leader An Gof (the Smith) was  tortured and executed and has rightly been dubbed the 'Cornish Braveheart'. In recent years, as this book explains, the name An Gof came to be used for a pseudo-terrorist movement supposedly active a couple of decades ago in Cornwall. They were engaged not in killing but in blowing up government buildings etc. While real Cornish Nationalists of the time rightly condemned these acts as the work of fanatics, modern Cornish Nationalists doubt in retrospect whether these acts (attributed to the nebulous group named An Gof) were in fact the work of extremist Cornish Nationalists at all; but rather  they were  most likely the work of a dirty tricks capmaign organised by the press to disredit the real Cornish Nationalists and bring their cause into disrepute. An analogous example can be seen in modern Greek history where the 17th November (now an important school holiday) commemorates the heroic student uprising against the 'junta' at the Athens Polytechnic in 1973 in which several students were killed. Yet later the same name (i.e. 17th November) came to refer to a terrorist group (supposedly left wing but  most probably with higher 'foreign' right wing backing). Cornish Nationalism has long recovered  from the dirty attacks of those who have sought to misconstrue its goals. The movement is now strong and thriving. This book is a worthy and detailed historical analysis of this most remarkable cultural movement. It is also a tribute to a most interesting people. If you have difficulty in obtaining this through Amazon.com (I have found that Amazon can find practically EVERYTHING!!) then try the sister Amazon.uk branch. It is still in print.	2005-08-04
US	33930616	R2MMHKLRCT9BVP	0895260697	219475797	Rumsfeld's War: The Untold Story of America's Anti-Terrorist Commander	Books	1	10	28	N	N	A war for others to get killed, not Rumsfeld	If you are so impressed by this man that you want to buy a book about him then let me ask just one rhetorical question. Since you admire him so much then, instead of wasting  valuable time browsing through this trash,why don't YOU join the marines and stand beside the real men who are being killed each day in Iraq? Probably the reason is the same reason why Rumsfeld himself failed to fight in the Korean War!     There are two reasons why people can avoid fighting in a war. The first reason is cowardice - usually displayed by someone who is fanatically in favour of the war but, if only they didn't have college obligations etc. then they would like to fight too. Yet they  really envy all the other young heroes who are 'lucky' enough to be able to go. This kind of fawning character may make speeches  praising the war effort and thereby try to cash in on the real heroes' fame. This type of draft-dodger is known to all of us. They are the war profiteers - the people who create wars for others to get killed yet themselves live to ripe (or rather rotten) old age. In this category I would also include  certain celebrities who in W.W.2 dodged the draft by having 'loony papers'  forged bribed doctors - yet were praised for starring in patriotic films that would inspire other young men to enlist and get killed. They also became rich recording songs (that sold hundreds of thousands of copies) ostensibly to comfort other people who were getting killed in their place.     There is a second category of person who may refuse to fight in a war. This person will not hide behind convenient excuses and feign views of pseudo-patriotism. This person will have the courage to say why they disagree and will not take part in such an immoral war. I am thinking particularly of the great Muhammed Ali. In his career as  world heavyweight boxing champion he made the sport popular to all with his  charisma, his wit, his handsome looks (unspoilt by years in the ring), his impressive natural physique (not the result of  artificially forced body building or protein tablets) and his record-breaking success in the ring. Despite all his many feats, I had never admired this MAN so much as when he refused to be drafted to Vietnam. At that time many of the leading politicians of today were then the white college boys deferring their service. Yet here was a man with the dignity and respect for his  own race (and for the races of others). When asked to justify his brave decision to be a conscientious objector, he explained that he had nothing personal againt the Vietnamese and that no Vietnamese person had ever called him a 'nigger'. I apologise to any Afro-American for having just used that word but I hope that the context in which it was cited will be appreciated.     Unfortunately, there is not a Muhammed Ali of today to inspire  contemporary Afro-Americans who (without any real benefit to themselves or their communities)are providing a great proportion of Rumsfeld's expendable fodder in Iraq.  A contemporary Muhammed Ali would also indeed inspire so many other Americans of all racial extraction who would  admire  the principles of this great man.  It is a tragedy that other people with  some Afro-American blood (e.g. Colin Powell and Condolisa Rice) do not respect their own race as much as they do their own political careers. What have the Iraqi people done to you? Have they ever called you any name?      I wonder what Freud would have to say about the wimps of history and their complexes - those puny beings who (not endowed with a physique of someone like Muhammed Ali or the average  U.S. marine)  felt the need to assert authority over others to feel powerful . They wanted to achieve world supremacy by getting other people to fight in their wars. I am thinking , of course, of  sick and evil little creeps like Napoleon, Hitler and now of Rumsfeld. Napoleon had his Waterloo, Hitler met an inglorious end cowering in a bunker. It is now the time for the American people to dismiss Rumsfeld and his lackeys. They should be controlled before they get the chance to  cause the invasion of another peaceful country (this time Iran). Iran has already suffered so much in the American-instigated Iran-Iraq war over a couple of decades ago.  Contrary to whatever lies Rumsfeld and his evil colleagues are trying to spread, Iran has done nothing against America, nor does it constitute any threat. Moreover, the new Iranian government is making modest but steady progress with democracy. Before Rumsfeld gets the chance to repeat the Iraq tragedy in Iran, he should be arrested together with his accomplices. They should all be tried in the Hague for war crimes  against humanity; and in some countries their acts would be condemned as tantamount to high treason against the State. They have plunged America into an unjust war against an innocent people and thereby have exposed the American  citizens to new retaliatory acts of terrorism. In so doing they have also endangered world security.	2005-06-26
US	33930616	R281ELGJPGTL56	0192142313	819179883	The Oxford Companion to the Year: An Exploration of Calendar Customs and Time-Reckoning	Books	5	9	11	N	N	A  great almanac of important days and events	This work is the ultimate reference tool for the calendar. It is divided into two parts. In the first part on Calendar Customs we have a rich but not exhaustive chronology of the days of the year (from pages 1-544) recording historic events which occurred on specific dates as well as notable holidays. This is followed by material covering the seasons, months, days,  Western moveable feasts, Orthodox moveable feasts and miscellaneous holidays that were not incorporated in the main chronology, e.g Handsel Monday.     The second part of the work deals with Calendars and Chronology. This section consists of several important world calendars (such as the Hindu, Jewish, Zoroastian and even the French Republican, etc. - yet certain noteworthy calendars like that of the Hopi Indians are absent). There is also information pertaining to the date of Easter, appendices, a glossary, bibliography as well as an index.     There is a great deal of information contained in this volume. However, the authors' main speciality is classics. Whilst reasonable coverage of folk customs is provided, neither of these  prestigious authors are folklorists. This is evident from the lack of certain material. For instance, in the analysis of the days of the week (pp. 571-582), while after each day there are a few phrases like Fig Sunday and Mothering Sunday, these phrases could well have been increased. For example,  even though there is a reference to Simnel cakes (once brought to one's mother on Mothering Sunday) there is no reference here to Simnel Sunday. Likewise there is no mention of Sugar Cup Sunday, Spanish Sunday or Shaking Sunday (all synonyms of Palm Sunday - the etymologies of which would have made interesting details). Neither is Stir up Sunday recorded (the is the last Sunday before Advent when traditionally Christmas puddings were prepared - 'stirred'). Also excluded are Refreshment Sunday (a synonym of Mothering Sunday)and Peasen Sunday (a synonym of Carling Sunday - yet this latter term is recorded -  so called since peas or 'carlings' were eaten). Moreover, there is no mention of Plague Sunday (last Sunday in August) or Pig Face Sunday in Avening, Stroud (after September 14th). Analogous phrases after the other days of the week are similarly unrepresented.      On the subject of the days of ther week, it must be noted that the bibliography does not constitute a complete list of works cited. It is merely a collection of published works suggested  for further reading. On the whole the text is not annotated and the bibliography does not include all the important articles which have provided the authors with information for this work. For instance, on p. 577 with reference to Tuesday, the authors are correct in observing that in Greece this day not Friday is the unlucky day. This point is followed by an obscure allusion to Digenes Akritas which is only marginally of relevance. The  only English-language source of this association (though not acknowledged in the text or bibliography) is a brief article taken from 'FLS News' (newsletter of the English Folklore Society) about 'Tuesday (not Friday) the Thirteenth'(FLS News, No. 21, June 1995). This article should have been cited since it was obviously used ; and in the rare event that this information was taken directly from Greek-language sources (e.g. the folklore journal 'Laographia'), then if this were the case such a reference is likewise missing in the bibliography.     In a work of such mammoth proportions compiled by just two (rather than a whole team of) distinguished authors, it is inevitable that a certain amount of pertinent material has been excluded or overlooked. Nevertheless I still give this work a five-star rating and (until it is reprinted in larger improved editions)this will still remain the best (or rather only) work of its kind.	2005-06-23
US	33930616	R1Z3PKBNT62CR8	0597845735	911826047	Dictionary of the Vulgar Tongue: Extracted from Webster's Online Dictionary - The Rosetta Edition	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Another reprint of Grose's slang dictionary	I would like to write just a few words not only as a review but rather to make a slight clarification. This is an excellent book. However, I regret buying it because I had not realised that I already had a copy. The title of this particular edition (mentioning ROSETTA etc.) is very misleading ! I had expected to find a collection of American C19th slang analogous with Capt. Grose's monumental work on British slang (originally printed 1811). Yet the book is exactly the same! I had thought mistakenly (since no information whatsoever was available) that, having a different number of pages and being published in America, the collection would have been distinct. The title is an important issue and the publishers should bot have changed it. In all bibliographies of works on historical slang (particularly by Partridge etc.) the work is always attributed to the actual author  Capt. Grose. In  most references the name Grose would be provided  (in brackets) to acknowledge any entry cited from this work.      This is a pioneering masterpiece of British (not American) slang and constitutes a rich collection of popular expressions derived from Cant, criminal slang as well as historical slang terms.  For a start, the word 'Vulgar' is NOT used in the sense of obscene and disgusting (which would indeed be appropriate for certain collections of modern slang). Here 'vulgar' is used in its etymological sense (from the Latin 'vulgus' and 'vulgaris' meaning popular i.e. of the people and is thus a cognate of the word 'Vulgate' the popular Lain translation of the Bible). There are, of course,  certain entries that do pertain to subjects which are regarded as taboo (e.g. 'Covent garden ague' meaning venereal disease and a 'Covent garden nun' meaning  a prostitute - so named since the area of Covent Garden was once London's principal red light district). Nevertheless these entries are not too profuse and are invariably explained with the author's inimitable English subtlety.     There aredozens of toponymous entries  such as  'Essex lion' (a calf) and 'Tyburn blossom' (young thief or pickpocket - Tyburn once  being the place of execution in London- for which this young criminal was no doubt destined). There are also eponymous phrases like 'Kemp's shoes' which also provides information about an old custom of throwing shoes. There are euphemisms and idiomatic phrases many of which are no longer in use. Most of the entries are succinct and do not generally provide the derivation of a given term. There are, however, intermittent 'folk etymologies' (as opposed to precise linguistic etymologies) included to explain some phrases.     Another weakness of this particular publication (apart from the title) is that the page numbers do not correspond with other editions (i.e. it is not a facsimile reprint). There are, however, two main advantages of this edition: firstly, the price is very accessible. Secondly, a useful thematic index is provided as a supplement. This is an excellent collection of British colloquial expressions and terms for anyone (either side of the Atlantic) who loves the English language and enjoys learning new (or rather antiquated) phrases. I can strongly recommend any of the availalbe editions. However,  please do not (like I did) purchase the two titles by mistake imagining that in doing so your are supplementing / complementing your research by acquiring a similar work. This title is indeed a great work by it is the SAME work. Whatever edition you choose you will be most satisfied.	2005-06-06
US	33930616	R2L7DC1VSNMM9X	1575872005	404230433	The Dixie Dictionary	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	An interesting collection of Southern words	I thoroughly enjoyed reading this dictionary. This is probably the richest collection of Southern words in print. It is true that there are few etymologies provided and the entries are all concise. However, I  would much rather have the work as it stands as opposed to having only half the number of entries with a detailed analysis. In fact many of the most interesting entries (i.e. those petaining to untranslateable concepts) do have a longer explanation. There are many entries contained here which cannot be found in Robert Hendrickson's \\"Whistlin' Dixie\\". On the other hand, there are a few entries Hendrickson uses that cannot be found  here. Hendrickson also provides a more detailed descritpion of each entry and perhaps has  slightly more toponymous expressions. If you are in doubt as to which dictionary to buy then, if you really love this dialect of American English,  I strongly recommend that you buy BOTH. The two important works on Southern speech complement the other and are both reasonably priced.      First of all, I would like to say that \\"The Dixie Dictionary\\" is extremely rich in folklore entries. For instance, there are fascinating terms like 'belling' (a wedding custom), 'dumb cake' (a cake made in silence and used for fortune telling) and 'infare' (a feast the day after the wedding). There are literally dozens of unique words pertaining to various kinds of  legendary monsters such as the 'Bingbuffer', the 'clew bird' and the 'galoopus' etc. There are also words connected with folk healing like 'chamber lye', 'nanny tea' and 'fasting spittle' as well as call words used to command animals (e.g. 'coo-sheep/coon-nan' and 'sukee' , etc.). Folk expressions concerning the weather and seasons are also represented in entries like 'blackberry winter' and 'dogwood winter' etc.      There are also many terms taken from the Civil War like 'copperhead' (a Northerner/Yankee who sympathised with the South. There are many nicknames e.g. 'Rackensack' (someone from Arkansaw) and a 'Cracker' (someone either from Georgia or Florida) etc. in addition to toponymous phrases like the 'Carolina robin' (smoked herring), 'Charsleston eagle' (buzzard) and 'Arkansas toothpick' (bowie knife) etc.       Another category of terms which reflects the devout history of the people is the religious terminology like 'amen corner', 'pound' (party for a new preacher), 'toadstool churches' (which grow up as a result of revivals) and 'pokeweed religion' etc. There are also countless terms associated with tobacco, moonshine/whiskey and games like marbles. Several entries do not constitute distinct words as such but rather dialect variants/different pronunciation e.g. 'ovair' (over there), 'leben' (eleven) and 'zactly' (exactly). Talking of the last word 'zactly', dialectologists, will be interested to encounter certain similarities with some West Country British dialects (which often use 'z' in place of 's'). For instance, in the Cornish dialect (many terms of which are derived from an ancient language akin to Welsh not English) I recognised the following entries : 'ashcat', 'cap'n', 'kilt', 'emmet' (meaning ant - in West Cornwall it is 'muryan' yet 'emmet is used in E.Cornwall and in Devon), 'furmety' and 'rassle' etc.  This leads me to postulate that Cornish miners may well have settled in some places in the South.If any fellow-readers would like to purchase a Cornish dialect dictionary then search on this site (there are good dictionaries available by  Jago, Phillipps and Ivey). If they are not available in Amazon.com then try the Amazon.uk branch. As you can probably detect from my review, I found this work most interesting. It is an important contribution to the culture of the South and to dialectology.	2005-06-01
US	33930616	R2MNCXPLT0UB8S	082646596X	477083863	Free Radical: New Century Essays	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Words of Sincerity	It is always edifying to have the good fortune to be able to listen to (or read) this wise and kind man. Tony  Benn has always been the contradiction in terms of a \\"sincere politician\\". He has been a steadfast champion of justice and an honest voice in the British House of Commons. He gave up his peerage and all the priveleges that accompanied it to devote his life to speaking the truth and fighting for  the weak, the forgotten, the abused and those without a voice. Often this has been a fight that he has had to undertake alone. It is undoubtedly the greatest tragedy not only for Britain but for the world that Tony Benn did not challenge the leadership of the 'Labour'party (if this party still deserves this name). He would have been the greatest British prime minister in history. There would also have been much more justice, decency and fair play in the world. Even though it is perhaps too late for this  meek, wise and slightly ageing man to ever become the leader of his country, what he says is still of great value.	2005-05-26
US	33930616	R14VFAEUB16IG5	0934953457	889200786	Beat Speak: An Illustrated Beat Glossary Circa : 1956-1959	Books	3	8	10	N	Y	A collection of excellent cartoons but NOT a glossary	I would not like to appear spiteful by giving only a low-star rating for this. I have therefore given it three stars (from an average of five for the sketches and just one for the written content).  I am sure that the other readers were most sincere in recommending the book by giving it five stars.I am writing this merely to clarify what the content of this book is and what it is not. The artistic talent of the author is not in question and for anyone who appreciates a nicely bound hardback copy of original sketches then I am sure that they would enjoy this book. The author is a very accomplished cartoonist and her work is as good as any I have seen in this category without resembling any other artist. However, if the purpose of a prospective buyer is to acquire a full scholarly glossary of this fascinating  period then this is definitely NOT the book you want. Throughout the book there are only a few dozen very common slang expressions that can be encountered in any translatlantic (i.e. American) detective series. Each page has only one such slang expression which serves as a caption to a full-page cartoon sketch. If one does not appreciate art and merely wants a complete dictionary of slang terms from the 1950s then a more suitable title would be a work like Max Decharne's \\"Straight from the Fridge, Dad : A Dictionary of Hipster Slang\\". This compilation also includes 1940s slang terms.	2005-05-24
US	33930616	R1HNSL7TZDFWVR	1581822804	809819752	The Encyclopedia of Civil War Usage: An Illustrated Compendium of the Everyday Language of Soldiers and Civilians	Books	5	8	16	N	Y	The supreme reference tool for the American Civil War	This is undoubtedly one of  the greatest reference works about the American Civil War, written by one of the most renowned scholars in this field. The 2,500 entries range from 'A1' and 'abaft' to 'Zouave'. There is a rich collection of slang terms that represent the speech of both sides in the War as well as entries that refer to weapons and machines. There are also many nicknames of generals and high-ranking military officers  (for which there are useful biographies provided)and eponymous phrases such as 'Sherman's neckties' and 'Sherman's sentinels' etc. There is also a great deal of information about places, battles, prisoner of war camps etc. This book will be enjoyed both by the historian and the linguist. Here one can find practically every term or phrase associated with this period of history. Admittedly if one scanned carefully in the Civil War section of Paul Dickson's excellent work 'War Slang' or in Robert Hendrickson's books 'Whistlin' Dixie' and 'Yankee Talk' then one may well come across the odd entry not incluuded here. However, this work constitutes the greatest colletion in a single volume.      As a non-American the American Civil War has always both interested me and bewildered me. It seems that popular opinion has often simplified the causes of the war. In the entry on 'Slavery' the authors declare that this was \\"not the only issue dividing the north from the south\\". Indeed, there were many other political and economic reasons. It is a fallacy to go on believing that the South was the side of the baddies who wanted slaves while the North were the goodies who wanted to free the slaves. The Americans had fought bravely to secure their own independence. It does not seem illogical why an extremely large section of the states should want to form their own country (that would have been analogous with Canada). If this was their wish they should have been allowed to do so. Perhaps the feeling between North and South would have been a lot different todayif the South looked on the North as just a friendly neighbour (in the same way that Canada does) rather than holding a grievance. In the war both sides displayed heroism and both sides committed atrocities. The total cost in terms of human life makes the American Civil War one of the greatest tragedies of world history. As for the pretext about the slaves, this was just a pretext. If this had been such a vital issue then why in the aftermath of the war was there no legislation to make former slaves equal citizens. Even almost a century later the Afro-American (for whom this war was supposedly waged) was still treated as a second class citizen. In the 1950's there was still a system comparable with the South African 'apartheid' with black people not allowed to travel in the same bus compartment as whites. Even those black soldiers drafted in W.W.1. and W.W.2 were kept seperate in their own regiments. In the Vietnam war a disproportionately high percentage of black people were enlisted and were not allowed to use their 'dap' or 'soul handshake' for fear that it might form constitute some exclusive bond. Even today it is in the poor black neighbourhoods (not the luxurious tree-lined avenues where the senators live) that the military frequent to find expendable recruits for  Iraq. In the  new Iraq occupation  some slighly black 'showcase' Afro-Americans like Colin Powell and Condolisa Rice have gained prominence and wealth. However,  they do not represent the needs or voice of their race. For the ordinary  Afro-American getting killed every day in Iraq or living in a poor underpriveleged ghetto, things are little better today despite the sacrifice of so many lives in the Civil War.	2005-05-19
US	33930616	R2NXD45VVXUT0Q	081334235X	210245909	New Britain: My Vision Of A Young Country	Books	1	2	22	N	N	The Lies of a masked war criminal	It is a tragic truth of history that some people  who have offered so much have paid such a high price. The supreme example is Christ. By contrast, others offer only destruction and deceit yet are rewarded. Over thirty years ago Kissinger planned the Turkish invasion of Cyprus in which  well over 1,000 young men were killed and their relatives still have not been able to bury their remains. Later on Kissinger became the recipient of the Nobel Peace Prize (a prize named after the man who invented dynamite and held in the country which helped the Nazis in the war). Now after causing the deaths of thousands of innocent people (and precipitating a civil war in Iraq which may well cost thousands more lives)it was sickening  in the extreme to see scenes of Blair  with his elated smirk waving effeminately at his supporters after being reelected.     There are so many children in Iraq who will never again  know the pleasure of playing with other children, of walking and running, of smelling wild flowers, seeing the colours of nature and feeling the warmth of their mothers' touch, let alone other lesser pleasure like entering an Amazon site and then reading a book or listening to music. Blair and his war-mongering collaborators have deprived these little children of all these joys and also of their lives! They died, like the British soldiers sent to Iraq, for nothing!. There were no weapons. Blair knew that all along (indeed if there had been weapons of mass destruction in Iraq the bullying super powers would been too afraid to attack - and this is the very reason why no such cowardly attack has been made against China and why Iran might still be safe). The Iraqi children died just so that Blair, for  his own political reasons and ambitions could suck up to his American counterpart. Blair's protestation that 'I really did think there were weapons and I honestly do believe that the world is better off without Saddam Hussein' is hypocritical. Not only is such an excuse insincere, but it is not  satisfactory to overlook the fact that it was the Americans and British who had imposed this leader on the Iraqi people in the first place.     Britain and America have got no right to intervene  in and exploit situations in other countries. Would Britain like it if a super power attacked London so that British troops could stop occupying Northern Ireland? Would America like it if a hypothetical power superior to their own gave weapons to the 'American' Indians to recaim their former homelands?     Britain and America  both fought bravely in the Second World War to overcome tyrrany. Now the situation is very different!   Perhaps the result of the British election is not so surprising after all. It is true that Blair has committed so many crimes. Not only did he plunge his country into a war (thereby exposing British subject to a future equivalent of the 11th September) but he also perverted justice by harbouring the war crimial and mass murderer Pinochet. He has  also destroyed  wonderful welfare institutions like the National Health Service and made it more difficult for poor people to claim supplementary benefits and pensions. Due to this selfish policy, of course the British economy is flourishing - less is spent on social needs : health care and education etc. Thus for the wealthy voters who already have a lot of pounds, these pounds (unlike the falling dollar) retain their value against the Euro. British holiday-makers can therefore put the 'unpleasant' subject of the war behind them when they go abroad and enjoy the fact that they get a good exchange for their pounds; in fact such a good exchange that they can probably afford to go abroad again a little later on in the year. Yes, some people  have faired very well under the Blair regime. As the saying goes, 'I'm alright Jack!'  This is the selfish motto: What does it matter if there is a civil war in Iraq as long as I am alright.     It is possible that, just as I find those fawning reviews about Blair nauseating, some readers (who  naiively believe Blair to be a good friend to America) may well be be nauseated by my own review. I would just like to ask a simple question to anyone who condones Blair's actions (and the question is rhetorical). It would be frightning  to consider if  you  would still admire Blair if it were YOUR son getting killed in action in Iraq? And perhaps it would be even more frightening if someone was the sort of person who said that they WOULDN'T mind. Please don't waste money on  buying this book, nor precious time in reading it!  There are so many good books available through Amazon. Blair is already stinking rich and  would not appreciate any extra money from the royalties. He does not care about poor people. It would be better to donate the price of the book to a charity to help children in Iraq whose limbs have been amputated or to families of soldiers killed in their prime for this selfish man and his unscrupulous colleagues. There are so many other things you could do with this money and so many people who could be helped. Before you turn off the computer just check the news headlines. How many young soldiers have been killed today?  How many Iraqi civilians have died? Maybe they were just going to vote in some pseudo-election (without the safety of American-British escort) or perhaps (after such a long period of unemployment) they have gone to be recruited as police officers (again without the protection of occupying troops) and have been bombed. Or perhaps  yet another British or American technician has been kidnapped and may  well die a barbaric death because his president (or prime minister) does not care enough to intervene on his behalf. Yes, Blair must share a great responsibility for all such deaths that have occurred and for all those innocent victims who will continue to die.	2005-05-06
US	33930616	R38SPQEBS2I7WC	1933037539	793964716	The Complete Drug Slang Dictionary	Books	5	2	18	N	N	A  most useful dictionary	I remember once reading some graffiti sprayed on a courthouse in Greece which I translate as follows \\"The laws, like snakes, bite only those who are without shoes\\". Nowhere is this sentiment perhaps more true than in the world of drugs and crime. Often the real criminals in many areas of crime are protected while their victims are hunted. This prevails not only in the west but also in the east. For instance, looking through glossy travel magazines about exotic destinations in S.E. Asia, one can see the ostentatious red line on the pages (comparable with the government health warning that accompanies a cigarette adveryisement). These read 'The traficking in drugs carries the death penaty'. It seems that the main purpose of  such an ad for these countries (who do not print similar warnings against other crimes from which they make money such as child pornography etc.) is just to ingratiate themselves with western governments, especailly if they manage to make an 'example' of the odd user (not dealer).      I am a linguist and folklorist and I have no contacts whatsoever with anyone taking drugs. So why did I buy this book? There are two main reasons: the first is that I feel human compassion for the victims of this scourge and the second reason is that I love learning new words and phrases, as I shall explain below in my review.       For a start, it must be clarified that this book is NOT intended for the drug pushers or dealers (they will already be familiar with most of these terms). As the author explains in the blurb, the purpose of this book is to provide help for parents of drug users and for police officers. These are two heroic categories of people who in thier different ways try to help the addict and it is of paramount importance that they are both well-informed about drugs in order to carry out thios help effectively. I can also think of other cateories of readers who could benefit from reading this book. Firstly ,a counsellor such as the sensitive person who wrote the previous review. The main person , however, to whom this book should be given is the potential victim. These days, just going to an innocent party, one without wanting to, could end up a victim (e.g. if some unscrupulous person laces their drink etc.). It is therefore handy to know, when offered a drink, for instance, to understand what some creep means if they smile in a 'friendly' way when pouring a drink and ask the vulnerable guest if they want some 'Uncle Elmer' in it (i.e. ecstasy) or 'Uncle Sid' (LSD). Or perhaps someone is waiting to be served a drink while she hears the host talking in his lingo about him preparing this drink to 'babysit' (i.e guide someone through their first drug experience). Now, thanks to this dictionary, the drug talk is no loinger a hidden form of slang to which the uninitiated are excluded (similar to the way in which the Cockney 'spivs' used the rhyming slang if they did not want to be understood). I am also impressed by the fact that 10% of the proceeds from this book help towards the environment ( for reforestation) and for children's education).     As I have previoulsy mentioned, my main reason for purchasing this title was to acquire another tool for my research as a linguist and folklorist. Talking of folk customs, it is interesting that several of the entries shoul use expressions borrowed from rites of passage. In a very subtle way the use of drugs is thus parallelled with a relationship/getting married. First there is the so-called 'honeymoon' period (pleasant as the name must suggest when the user feels in control and actually seems to enjoy his/her initial acquaintance with the drug - that was invariably given free as a treat). Indeed, one entry referes to the addiction as a 'love affair' and there is even a similar entry on 'wedding bells'. Yet, as with an unripe persimon (which leaves a hateful taste in the mouth and sting s the tongue), these phaese are followed by the 'bag bride' (prostitute - showinghow the victim has to reach the lowest level in order to pay for the next fix).       Whaty is so dangerous is that such deadly substances are given such pleasant names. For instance, we have the euphemisms like 'red cross' (marijuana) and 'white cross' (methamphetamine). Moreover, on the subject of folklore, there are also  apparently harmless names like 'pixies' (amphetamine), 'troll' (LSD and ecstasy), 'ghost' (LSD) and 'zombie' (PCP). There are also countless drugs that contain the word 'dragon' (LSD- also called 'Chinese Dragons'), etc.       Another pleasant aspect of the nomenclature is that occasionally drugs are given the names of pop songs (or perhaps vice versa). Hence we have 'Lucy in the Sky of Diamonds' said to represent LSD (as do the terms 'Strawberry fields' and 'Mellow yellow') whereas the 'yellow submarine' referes to marijuana.      This dictionary contains 3,000 entries ranging from 'A'( LSD) to 'Zulu' (bogus crack). Indeed, many entries pertain to mixed drugs - something that is most dangerous. From what I have heard, an addict must be weaned off by taking reduced doses of the pure drug form (or a milder substiutute) to which he/she is addicted and not given cheaper forms that are adulterated with all kinds of harmful substances - just so the dealer can make his drug go round more and make more money. The dictionary is also useful , then, in that it gives information about such deadly compounds which the addict should beware of and avoid. One such mixture is 'dragon rock' (heroin and crack). Another term to beware of is a 'bad bundle' (inferior quality heroin - no doubt inferior as it has been tampered with). Moreover, a 'drank' is a cigarette or marijuana laced with PCP. On the subject of mixed drugs, there are also new portmanteau terms coined in the last couple of decades . e.g. 'dopium' (dope+ opium) and 'secstasy' (viagra + ecstasy).      Many terms pertain to mesurements or slang expressions for money. For example, 'HO' is half an ounceof marijuana, a 'dime' is ten dollars of crack, a 'deuce' is two dollars of any drug and a 'brick' is a kilo of marijuana. Some entries feature colours : 'black pearl' (heroin), 'orange haze' (LSD), 'Yellow bullets' (depressants), 'red rock' (heroin), 'blue mist'(LSD), 'green magic' (marijuana) and 'brown sugar' (heroin). Other entries are taken by analogy with animals. For instance, 'teddy bears' refers to LSD and so is 'hawk' while 'red eagle' is heroin and so is 'tiger'.      Several entries are eponymous. For instance, a 'Jeffereson airplane' is a used match to hold a marijuana joint and a 'Munro' (no doubt by the tragic allusion to the 1950's actress) means narcotics. Many entries are toponymous or racial/racist. The poor Mexicans have their share with phrases like\\"'fly Mexican airways' (smoke marijuana), 'Acupulco gold' (marijuana) as is 'Zacateca's purple' whereas 'Mexican horse' is heroin. Other ethnic phrases include 'Afghan black' and 'Angola' (both meaning marijuana), 'black Russian' (hashish), 'Bolivian marching powder' (cocaine) and 'Apache' (fentanyl).        At the beginning of the dictionary there is an informative description of the main drugs. The terms in the book are taken from a wide variety of American slang forms such as black slang and Spanish words used by Hispanics, yet British slang terms are not represented. There are even  new portmanteau terms like 'dopium' (dope + opium) and 'secstasy' (viagra + ecstasy). Indeed what is significant about this book is that it reflects the MODERN slang of today. Hence there are even terms like 'Twin towers' and 'WTC' for heroin (terms obviously coined after the tragedy of 11th September). In the case of the latter entry , the author does not explain that the abbreviation stands for the World Trade Center (a point not necessarily obvious to non-Americans). Indeed, one slight weakness (but for most readers probably an advantage) is that while the entries are all clear and concise they are not etymlogical.Another instance is the term 'thirteen' which means marijuana. The reason for this is that 'M' is the thirteenth letter of the alphabet. However, the author's simple and succinct style may well be more effective than a ddictionary with longer entries.      In order to be able to deal with any problem one must first try to understand that problem. This book certainly succeeds in imparting a very thorough understanding of this subject and thus it is an important tool that can be used to help many people.   P.S. After going unnoticed for several months without any readers'endoresment or disagreement, this review has suddenly received no less than 16 negative acknowledgements. This form of marking system seems highly dubious in the extreme and I very much doubt whether this response is from 16 (or even two) persons. Wealthy customers could easily have more than one Amazon account. It is also possible that the priveleged and affluent tend to judge the victims of the evil scourge of drugs rather than the scourge itself. People whose life is in ruins through drug abuse need help not condemnation. This is the most christian attitude.	2005-04-26
US	33930616	R2SVFG958YZ0Z3	1576079872	766148318	Marriage Customs of the World: From Henna to Honeymoons	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	A  fascinating encyclopedia of wedding customs	Most books published by ABC-CLIO have a very high quality, even if they are soemwhat expensive. In the past I have also enjoyed reading several articles and reviews by the author, folklorist George Monger. He is an expert on various aspects of folkore, in particular in some specific areas such as wedding customs in the industrial context (i.e. rituals about how workmates in a factory etc. will celebrate the bride to be who will shortly be leaving them). In this book these particular traditions can be found in the entries on 'factory customs' and  the 'Ribbon girl' etc.      Even though the title does not use  either the word 'Dictionary' or 'Encyclopedia', this work is an encyclopedia of world wedding customs arranged in alphabetical order. The  informative entries range from 'abduction' (bride theft) to 'Zulu weddings'. There is also a detailed index which contains many specific foreign terms which do not constitute actual entries but which are nevertheless mentioned in the text. In place of a bibliography, the author lists a short selection of the most important references after each entry.     Many entries pertain to pre-wedding rituals and traditions such as the 'arranged marriage', 'matchmaking', 'banns', 'betrothal', 'bidding', the 'trouseau' and 'dowry' to name but a few. All such entries are comparative and the author provides parallel forms of the various traditions with reference to several different cultural backgrounds. Conversely, there are also many post-wedding customs such as the patrilocal tradition of the Chinese etc.      There is also a great deal of information on historical customs which are no longer practised. For instance, there is reference to 'rough music' (a form of charivari), 'handfasting'( a type of trial marriage once practised in Scotland) and 'bundling'etc. In some cases a custom has evolved. In the case of the 'Polterabend', for instance, the original motive was often a form of social disapproval analogous with 'charivari'(for which see 'rough music') but the tradition has come to mean playful pranking and celebration organised by friends and relatives.      There are also entries which pertain to important wedding symbols. For instance, there is the 'almond', 'rice', 'rings', 'bells', the 'bouquet', 'bride cake', the 'broom'/'besom', 'colours' and 'confetti' etc. In some of these entries rituals and traditons from mainly one culture are represented. For instance, in the entry on 'almonds' the author describes in interesting detail the Greek traditions (see also the excellent entry on 'Greek weddings'). Other entries such as the 'ring' allude to the distinct traditions from various cultures. Several superstitions such as the 'chimney sweep'(from whom it was lucky for the bride to receive a kiss) and 'cats' etc. are also included.     While the work is extremely well researched, due to the limitations of space, certain customs have obviously been excluded. For instance, while the author provides fascinating entries on wedding customs from both 'China' and 'Japan',  there is no mention of the rich customs of Korea (the only reference to Korea being in the context of the mass-wedding which take place in the Unification church/ Moonies founded by Korean businessman Sun Myung Moon). Similarly, while there are excellent entries on  wedding customs from European countries such as 'France', 'Germany', 'Spain' and 'Russia' and even 'Russian weddings' and 'Greek weddings', there is very little on Polish weddings which are very distinct in several respects (there are , however, a few allusions to Poland in the index).       Even though the historical background is clearly explained for many customs, there are some entries which constitute new customs. For example, the phenomenon of 'common law marriage' is also represented , as is the controversial 'same sex marriage' between homosexual and lesbian couples.      Another impressive feature of the book is that it provides careful cross references. For instance, the entry on the Jewish 'huppah' gives a cross reference to the 'canopy' (in which parallels of this wedding canopy can be seen in other cultures) as well as a cross reference to the main entry on the 'Jewish wedding'. Moreover, not only is the work cross-cultural in that a host of different ethnic backgrounds are represented, but the entries also reflect the different religious cutoms. For instance, there are entries on 'Hindu weddings', 'Sikh weddings', 'Islamic marriage', the 'Mormon Church' (as wqell as the associated entry of 'polygamy'), 'Quaker weddings' and 'Zoroastrian weddings', etc.     There are hundreds of other interesting topics such as the Irish tradition of the 'strawboys' (also seen at Christmas time), the peculiar muslim custom of 'muta'a'( a form of temporary marriage - also called 'sigheh' in Iran) and the strange custom of marriage to a 'tree'. There is also an entry on 'suttee'(the Hindu custom of a widow burning herself on her husband's pyre) and so amy other subjects from 'anniversaries' (the seventh is bronze, the tenth is tin etc.) as well as institutions like the 'stag night' and 'hen party'/'shower'. The author has the rare gift of presenting well-researched scholarly material in a readable way which is accessible to non-specialists. It is therefore a work that will appeal both to the expert folkorist and casual reader/ prospective bride alike. This book is a wlecome contribution to folklore studies and a necessary reference tool in any library.	2005-04-22
US	33930616	R1S6U1NZJCH4IW	0708313833	911460118	New Companion to the Literature of Wales (Cymru-Contemporary German Writers)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	The  greatest encyclopedia of Welsh culture ever written	I enjoyed the original edition of this work ('The Oxford Companion to the Literature of Wales', 1986). This completely revised and up-dated version has increased the content by some 400 new entries (approximately 150 more pages) and all in all there are 3,250 entries. The editor Prof. Meic Stephens needs no introduction. He is one of the greatest scholars and specialists in his field (and not to be confused with the Welsh singer and poet Meic Stevens - for whom there is also an entry in this work). The entries from pages 1-825 range from 'A oes heddwch?' (i.e. 'is there peace' - the cry of the archdruid in the 'Gorsedd' ceremony) to the 'Zeitschrift fur Celtische Philologie' (Ger. Journal for Celtic Philology).      In addition to the main dictionary entries there is a preface as well as a useful pronunciation guide for non-Welsh-speakers. There is also a list of the 320 contributors. At the end of the work there is a chronology  of important historical and literary events which have marked Wales, culminating in the 1999 elections for the Welsh Assembly. This is followed by a threefold appendix pertaining to the 'eisteddfod' (Welsh festival of literature and culture). Even though many entries are from the Welsh language, the order of the companion reflects the English rather than Welsh alphabetical order. For instance, the 'ffon wen' ('white stick' -  the once sick custom of sending a peeled hazel rod to mock the jilted man on the day of his girlfriend's wedding) appears before 'fran wen, y'(the mythical'white crow' invoked when talking to children). However, in a Welsh dictionary words beggining 'ff' would appear after all word with 'f'. Similarly, the 'llatai' ('love messenger' - usually a device in the form of a bird etc. with which a poet conveys his message) would normally appear after not before the entry on the 'London Welsh'.      This work is amazing in its wide range of content matter. The literature of Wales in all its forms is represented in clear, informative and concise entries. The companion deals with both  the literature written in the Welsh-language  and Anglo-Welsh literary forms (i.e. written by Welsh authors or poets in English). Perhaps the most famous Anglo-Welsh writer of international repute was Dylan Thomas (for whom there is a long detailed entry as well as entries on his major works and characters from those works). The writers of Anglo-Welsh literature often use the finest examples of English but also occasionally  dialect - forms of 'Wenglish' (Welsh-English). Perhaps the most interesting genre of Anglo-Welsh literature is the short story form. The magazines 'Cambrensis' and 'the New Welsh Review' have pioneered this art form whereas other magazines like 'Planet' have just restricted this form by pandering only to well-known authors or authors of exotic provenance as well as promoting the editor's own work but never giving a voice to new Welsh talent (in the days of  the original editor Ned Thomas, 'Planet' was a more powerful magazine).  As this new companion shows, there is so much fresh talent in Wales today. Many short story writers have become renowned novelists and many Welsh poets have also  gained international fame.  For instance, R.S. Thomas (who passed away only a couple of  years after the publication of this companion) was one of the greatest poets WORLDWIDE and even nominated for the Nobel prize for literature.     By contrast, the Welsh language is marked by different traditions. Welsh-language poetry used literally hundreds of unique forms of poetic verse.  An understanding of these poetic forms is essential to an appreciation of Welsh poetry. Thus there are entries on most of the major poetic forms : the 'cynghanedd', 'pryddest' and 'cywydd', 'sangiad' and 'gorchan' etc., to name but a few. All these very subtle terms are carefully explained with clear examples. The only problem I feel is that in the cases of the 'englyn' and the 'cynghanedd', for instance, the metre and alliterative patterns are illustrated by using English-language examples whereas extracts from actual Welsh verse (albeit with a translation provided) would have been better.      Wales was for centuries under English/Saxon rule, analogous with the position of the American Indians in their own homeland(incidentally, one entry of this companion deals with the so-called 'Welsh Indians' the  Mandan tribe descendants of Prince Madoc who supposedly visited America four centuries before Columbus). It is to be expected that, from the Welsh people's  servitude (and from their hope for freedom and justice) patriotism has always  been an important element in Welsh literary thought. In the medieval vaticinatory verse, for example, poets often looked to  the coming of a future 'mab darogan' or 'son of prophecy' who would come and redeem their nation. Indeeed, history is invariably inextricably linked with the literature of Wales through all stages of its evolution. It is therefore not incongruous to see a rich selection of political and historical entries that range from the ancient Laws of Hywel Dda (i.e. the Good) to concepts like 'cymhortha'. The political unrest of the C19th saw the activity of movements in Wales like the Rebecca Riots and the Scotch Cattle. Then in the C20th many Welsh people believed that their deliverer had come when Welshman David Lloyd George became prime minister of Britain. However, Welsh Nationalists even today regard him as a traitor to their cause and to the Welsh language which he did nothing to save. He compromised his pristine  professions of Welsh patriotism  for his own political ambitions. Moreover, his token reforms were nothing compared with what a government of Kier Hardy's Labour Party would have achieved. Even though he is called the 'Welsh Wizard' (a title more aptly given also to the boxer Freddy Welsh) and also 'the man who won the war', he did little to bring Britain's involvement in W.W.1. to an end. The real heroes of this war were not sitting comfortably in Downing Street but being massacred in N. France. I am still moved to tears when I read about the great  young poet Hedd Wyn who was awarded the 'eisteddfod' chair posthumously after being killed in that war (see the entry on the 'black chair of Birkenhead').      Contemporary political expressions is also represented like 'Meibion Glyndwr'('Sons of Glyndwr' - i.e. named after the hero Owain Gyndwr) who opposed the trend of English hoiliday homes or 'tai haf' (summer houses)in Wales by committing arson. Unlike certain cultures who have sometimes resorted to violent means to secure independence, the Welsh have never indulged in violence (apart from the wars of history and the aforementioned extreme exception of vandalising property). The Welshman's social grievances have always been best expressed by the poet, journalist or novelist whether writing in Welsh or English.      Wales is the land of myth and culture. This fact is often reflected in the literature. If literature is the art of expressing a people, then to understand that people one must first be acquainted with their culture. The companion contains many entries prertaining to characters and incidents that are taken from the 'Mabinogion' (collection of Welsh mythology). Welsh legends are also represented such as Arthurian material and associated entries such as 'caledfwlch' (i.e. excalibur) and 'Ynys Afallon' (Avallon) etc.     Wales has a very rich folklore and the reader can also find many entries related to folk interest. There are supernatural beings such as the 'afanc' (water monster) and the 'bwci bo' (type of bogeyman), not to mention the 'tylwyth teg' ('fair people' - i.e. fairies) and the 'tanwedd' ( moving light presaging a death). Interesting customs are also included such as the 'ceffyl pren' ('wooden horse' - the Welsh equivalent of rough music/charivari), the 'dyn hysbys' ('wise man' - a type of folk magician), the 'stafell' and 'pwnco' ( wedding customs), 'Calan Gaeaf' ( literaly 'eve of winter' - the Welsh equivalent of Halloween)and the 'calennig' (New year's gift tradition) etc. Old games are also mentioned like 'bando'(a primitive version of hockey), 'cnapan' (a ball game) and the dialect word 'kayles' ( referring to a kind of skittles). Types of food are also mentioned such as 'brwes', 'llymru' and 'siot', etc. While there is so much material from Welsh folklore, in some of the entries the actual Welsh terms could have been supplied. For example, the corpse candle should have been described with its Welsh name 'cannwyl corff'. Similarly, the 'corpse bird' (which is a death omen is called in Welsh 'aderyn corff' and the Welsh equivalent of bundling 'courting in bed' was known as 'caru yn y gwely'. Moreover, the 'love spoon' (made by a man as a form of marriage proposal for his intended) is called either a 'llwy serch' or 'llwy caru'. In this entry the dialect  word 'sboner' is used yet the purer Welsh word would be 'naddwr'( or carver).      There are so many other fascinating entries such as the 'coelbren y beirdd' or alphabet devised by Iolo Morganwg and untranslateable terms like 'hiraeth' (almost like a nostalgia, literally a 'longing')etc. This is an indispensable work for all those who loves Welsh culture. It is also a most interesting book for anyone who wants an authentic and detailed cultural insight into the people who were the original inhabitants of Britain.	2005-04-21
US	33930616	R3VU4URHLFWIM4	0874369533	85300299	Dictionary of Chicano Folklore	Books	5	5	7	N	N	A  valuable storehouse of Mexican-American heritage	The word 'Chicano' is used for an American of Mexican extraction, particularly  one living in border areas of New Mexico etc. The word 'Chicano' denotes someone who, despite living in U.S.A. is pure Mexican (and thus is not to be confused with a 'pocho', a term which Chicanos apply to one of their own people who has become too Americanised or 'agringado' (i.e. like a 'gringo' or 'gavacho' - as the American is sometimes called). The chicanos have an extremely rich culture and this excellent reference work is a great tribute to that culture written by an expert. This dictionary is supplemented with a forty page bibliography as well as an index. The entries range from the 'abuelo' (literally 'grandfather' but the term is also used as a synonym with 'coco' which is a kind of bogeyman) to 'Zozobra' (a giant effigy  which is burnt). By coincidence the last entry has an indirect relation to the first entry since  there is a cross reference to the 'kookooee' which is another form of this effigy (burnt in Santa Fe) and the name of which is derived from the 'cucui' or 'coco' (which , as we have just mentioned, are synonymous with the 'abuelo'). In fact, talkng of the burning of effigies, I also read on p. 222 that at Easter (as in Mexico - and  indeed even in many parts of Greece) a life-size effigy of Judas is burnt.       The author is careful to provide the correct Chicano  Spanish term for all the traditions and customs  mentioned. The work covers all aspects of folklore. There are rites of passage: baptism customs and rituals (found in the entry on the 'comadre'/'compadre'), the 'quinceanera'( - spelt with a tilde on the 'n' - this refers to a girl's fifteenth birthday celebration), wedding customs and death customs (e.g. in the entries 'camposanto' or cemetery, 'calavera' or skeleton, the 'Dia de la Muerte' or Day of the Dead and 'la carreta de la muerte' or death cart).  There are also entries which feature mythological creatures in folk tales like the 'chanes' or water spirits, the 'duendes' or goblins (distinct from the 'pichilingis' or elves) and the 'chirrionera' or mythical snake.     There are many entries which pertain to 'fiestas' and calendar customs. For instance, in  connection with the Christmas season  there are entries on 'aguinaldos' or carols, 'farolitos' or lanterns, 'matachines','oremos' and the 'pinata'(spelt with a tilde - the clay pot that children break to get the presents and sweets/candies inside). There are also legends such as 'La Llorona' and even  some Aztec myths like Aztlan, Quetzalcoatl and Tanantzin etc. The dictionary also contains a few short biographies of notable persons such as La Adelita (feminist symbol) and the pioneering folklorist Fabiola Cabeza de Baca.     Food is also represented with entries like the  'burritos'(little donkeys) and 'capirotada', etc. There is a reference to 'curanderismo' or folk healing as well as to the 'huesero' ot bone-setter. Similarly, some words deal with magic and superstition such as 'brujeria' or witchcraft and the 'mal ojo' or evil eye. The reader can also find entries on chicano folk art such as the 'colcha' or blanket and the 'retablos' or religious paintings. Musical entries are also provided (e.g. the 'conjunto' groups and the 'mariachi' bands). Unique literary terms are also included like 'adivinanzas' or riddles, 'decimas' or poetic narratives and one can also find  terms that relate to political and social aspects of chicano culture. For instance, there  is  mention of the 'rascuache' or downtrodden folk, the 'pachucos' (urban youth of the 1940s) and  even the 'alambrista' or illegal border-crosser.      There are so many other fascinating entries which cannot all be mentioned here. This is an important work and an invaluable record of the Chicanos' cultural wealth. It is an essential reference tool for Mexicans on both sides of the border and for general readers who enjoy  reading comparative folklore.    N.B. THIS BOOK (ENTITLED 'DICTIONARY OF CHICANO FOLKLORE')IS EXACTLY THE SAME BOOK AS ANOTHER ENTITLED 'CHICANO FOLKLORE: GUIDE TO TRADITIONS, RITUALS AND RELIGIOUS PRACTICES OF MEXICAN AMERICANS' (BY A DIFFERENT PUBLISHING HOUSE). THE FORMER IS THE ORIGINAL HARDBACK EDITION AND THE EXTRA PAGES (333 AS OPPOSED TO 308) IS DUE TO THE FACT THAT IT IS ILLUSTRATED WITH DOZENS OF BLACK AND WHITE PHOTOGRAPHS. THE LATTER TITLE IS SIMPLY A MUCH MORE ECONOMICAL PAPERBACK VERSION OF THE SAME WORK.	2005-04-16
US	33930616	RDTE2QJULB6HP	078641524X	836013578	The Halloween Encyclopedia	Books	5	20	24	N	Y	A delightful collection of Halloween lore	I enjoyed this book very much. It is a sound scholarly work and even though it has all the meticulous research to appeal to serious folklorists, it will also be of interest to the general reader. Apart from the main dictionary entries, there are also two appendices (appendix 1 contains a chronology of Halloween and appendix 2 discusses how Halloween has been portrayed in literature and the arts - the cinema is included). In addition, the author provides us with a rich bibliography of mainly academic works as well as a useful index.<br />  Halloween has long been a popular festival in Western christendom. In the Eastern Orthodox Church, the equivalent remembrances for the souls of the dead occur on the 'psychosavvata' or 'soul Saturday'; yet these take place in spring (like the ancient Greek 'Antheseria', the entry for which is to be found on p.13). It is not surprising therefore that this book contains details about customs from mainly Catholic countries. Many of these ethnic customs and traditions relate to certain countries such as Mexico ( e.g. 'El Dia do los Muertes' or the Day of the Dead)and the Celtic cultures, especially the Irish , Scottish and Welsh. Indeed there are many entries that pertain to terms from these aforementioned cultures. However, in some of the longer entries, traditions from some other countries are also recorded. For instance, in the fascinating entry on All Souls Day we are informed about distinct celebrations from various  European countries such as Poland, Italy, Portugal and Germany etc.<br />  There are, however, just a few constuctive observations that could be made about certain very minor errors(which in no way detract from the exceptional quality of this book). For instance, in a few of the foreign language terms, especially those taken from Celtic languages, there could perhaps have been  slightly more thorough editing. For instance, the Welsh 'hwch du gwta' mentioned on p. 166 as the 'black sow' is in fact the black tailless sow and  the middle word should be 'ddu'(pronounced as the archaic English word 'thee') and not 'du' (even though the  Welsh word 'du' does indeed mean 'black', the word in this context should undergo a mutation and thus be 'ddu'). On the subject of the Welsh black tailless sow, the equally important Halloween  ghost from Wales called the 'ladi wen' (white lady) was not mentioned. Moreover, the reference to the 'tylweth teg' should read 'tylwyth teg' (i.e. 'fair people' - one of several Welsh names for the fairies). The Irish word for fairy is 'si' (with an accent called a 'fada' on the 'i') whereas the author uses the outmoded spelling of 'sidhe'.<br />  From the fellow-Celtic land of Cornwall, there is an interesting but too concise entry on 'Allantide'. Here the reference to the 'Allan apples' does not connect these particular apples to the ritual of  (Cornish) girls placing them under their pillows to inspire a dream of their future spouses (alluded to on p.16). This detail could  easily have been cross-referenced  to both the excellent entry on 'bobbing for apples' and perhaps to the equally interesting entry on 'fortune telling'.<br />  Something else that is of interest in this book is the frequent conflation that is apparent between Halloween and Christmas. Prof. Jack Santino (for whom there is actually an entry) referred to Halloween as the 'Irish Christmas'. Indeed, there is much in common between the two festivals in several cultures, not only in Ireland. This is why we can notice common traditons such as the Christmas game of 'snapdragon' also being played at Halloween.  Other common customs can be seen in the entries on 'belsnickling', 'mumming', 'hogmanay', 'mistletoe' and 'strawboys' (the strawboys also feature in Irish weddings). Another noteworthy feature is the wise inclusion of Guy Fawkes Night/Bonfire Night (Nobvember 5th). Even though the 'Guy (effigy) was not burnt in the original fires after the 1605 Gunpowder Plot (this custom was introduced acouple of centuries later), the bonfire on November 5th gradually replaced the earlier bonfires that had formerly been lit at Halloween. This book provides a wealth of fascinating information and opens up so many interesting questions about Halloween - both old and new. It is my favourite title about this celebration and I thoroughly recommend it!><br />P.S. I am pleased to see that this wonderful work has been appreciated by other readers and that it has already been reprinted. In future editions (that is if the publisher is willing) I recommend that the work be further enhanced by the inclusion of a few more entries: e.g. the Lebanese festivities for Eid il Burbara. While these traditions concern St Barbara's day (4th December) they share many common elements with Halloween (fancy dress, trick or treating and pumpkins, etc).	2005-04-12
US	33930616	R7O4W8A5DQKXM	1580084877	766443500	Story Cloths of Bali	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	My favourite book on Indonesian folk art	I always feel a strong sense of gratitude to an author when I have enjoyed his/her book. It is true that my custom may have contributed slightly to any royalties, yet I believe that the best payment for a good author is to TELL OTHERS about the book. This is why I feel bound to write another review so as to share this marvellous title with fellow-readers. Living in Greece, I have long been interested in the Greek shadow theatre 'karagiozis' (from Turkish 'karagoz' or 'black eye' - with an umlaut on the 'o') and it was this interest that inspired me to learn Indonesian and research the 'wayang kulit' or Indonesian shadow theatre (much information of which can be found in this work). The author is obviously an expert in his field and has the knowledge of a scholar coupled with the love of a collector. Through the art form of 'story cloths' which includes various unique forms of embroideries or paintings like 'ider-ider' and 'tabing', etc. we explore so many fascinating aspects of Inonesian culture. The author describes in detail the motifs and figures of each cloth, telling the stories of each. To this end, we have an interesting presentation of Indonesian mythology which includes not only references to gods and goddesses but also  a succinct and enjoyable narration of both the Hindu Mahabharata and the Ramayana (Bali is the one Hindu bastion of muslim Indonesia). The same stories which are depicted on the exquisite cloths are also acted in the 'wayang kulit' shows. In the description of the representations, the incidental details are also most interesting such as the information about magic and the supernatural (a theme in some of the myths). The twelve excellent chapters (all fully annotated) are supplemented with not only an index but also two valuable glossaries (the first provides a list of mythological characters and places whereas the second contains technical terms connected with various aspects of art and culture). In both glossaries, the author is carefulto stipulate whether the provenance of a particular term is from Bali or Java (often both terms are provided). The book is beautifully illustrated with photographs of rare pieces from the author's personal collection, all of which are judiciously labelled. This is an important work for anyone who loves Indonesian art and culture.	2005-04-02
US	33930616	R1S0RAWTIXIK5A	3451273179	703921424	Lexikon der Bruche und Feste.	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Dictionary of Customs and Feasts	An excellent dictionary of calendar customs. The work ranges from 'Aba Noel'( apparently one Turkish name for the 'Weihnachtsmann' or 'Christmas man' who is the equivalent of Father Christmas - perhaps 'aba'[cf. Heb. 'abba' father]is another form of the Turkish words 'baba' and 'ata' meaning 'father' + Fr. 'Noel' - Christmas) to 'Zwolf Zwiebelschalen'(or literally the 'twelve onion skins' which refers to some divinatory ritual that is to be found in another entry). The work is written in German with 480 pages and it contains over 3,000 entries. The author provides us with a useful appendix which shows the calendar of Catholic festivals (in chronological order) as well as a rich bibliography. While there are several entries on foreign names for certain customs and traditions, the work is concerned primarily with the traditions of German-speaking peoples. Dialect forms of certain  names are often given together with various regional forms of certain customs to be found in Germany, Austria or Switzerland.  The entries are all concise, informative and usually provide the ecclesiastical and Biblical context/origin of the particular holidays. The work is meticulously cross-referenced and in many entries foreign equivalents are recorded. For example, in the entry on 'Nikolaos,Nikolaus' there are dozens of variants of this name ranging from the well-known Dutch 'Sinterklaas' to more obscure forms like 'Zinterklos', etc. In the entry 'Nikolaus-Begleiter' we have a list of different names for the character who accompanies St. Nicholas when he distributes Christmas presents, the most common of which is 'Zwarter Piet' or forms thereof. Yet the more  usual German gift-bringer is 'Christkind(le)'(i.e. 'Christ child') for whom there is also a detailed entry. It is an important collection of not only German but also world customs and covers every feast and custom connected with the celebrations of the year. It is also well illustrated with etchings and photographs, all of which are labelled with captions that relate to the text on the same page. An essential adddition to any good folklore library. Fellow-readers interested in German folklore and traditions would be advised to visit the excellent Amazon Germany site for a rich selection of titles.	2005-04-01
US	33930616	R2KHP02LCF5DX1	0670033006	982718443	Tony Blair: The Making of a World Leader	Books	1	4	21	N	N	Tony Blair:  More of a Thatcherite than Thatcher herself !	I have never visited the moon but then I know that the moon exists. Similarly I have never read this book but I know that it will contain so many lies (perhaps 'untruths' is a nicer-sounding word). For many British people the election of Blair initially gave the hope of a new life in British politics after so many years of Tory rule. They had naively expecteded that a politician coming from the Labour party would restore justice and fair play - but their hopes were betrayed. Not only did Blair continue Thatcher's policy of destroying one of the greatest welfare systems in the world ( thereby making the rich even richer and the poor even poorer) but he also continued her war-mongering policies with even more zeal. He has not only attacked old age pensions, social security and the national health service (once even better than in Scandinavia but now similar to America), but he has also exposed British people worldwide to actual terrorist threats (threats which hitherto had never existed).       I would not like to spend money on a book  such as this so that a portion of the royalties would end up in Tony Blair's  already bulging pockets; and with this money he could no doubt enjoy another holiday prancing about on a tropical island while so many people in Iraq are still being killed every day. Not having read this work, I would like to say that my rating of one star is no slur on the talent of the biographer (nor can I say that his treatment of Mr. Blair is partial or flattering). However, I am sure that the biographer is reporting what his subject WANTS him to say. I wonder whether this book will provide real unprevaricative answers such as the real truth behind the circumstances of Dr. Kelly's death. I also doubt whether Mr. Blair will provide an adequate explanation as to why a British subject was left to die a barbaric death by being beheaded without his prime minister's intervention (even though that poor man and his family had begged Mr. Blair to save his life). I wonder how many other superficial issues there might be in the book - all of which will serve just to divert attention from the real issue - why did Mr. Blair pretend to the British public that he had actual proof that there were nuclear weapons in Iraq?      A related question which I would not expect to see asked (let alone answered) in this biography is whether his actions really showed the work of a friend.  A friend  of America is not just someone who ingratiates himself with the leaders of the country, but someone who REALLY cares for the wellbeing of the good and  decent American people themselves, especially for all the young heroes who willingly went to give their lives believing (as they were told) that they were doing so to help their country (and paid far less than  the employees  sent to Iraq to reconstruct the oil industry). A friend is not someone who is always a fawning follower and a servile 'yesman'. A real friend is someone who is sincere and points out the truth. Two years ago he had the opportunity to offer his American counterpart the advice of a real friend. If such advice had been taken then thousands of innocent people would still be alive today.	2005-03-25
US	33930616	R2TJP65D2IYO0A	1400043417	268437494	Birds Without Wings	Books	4	9	11	N	N	A promising new novel about an old catastrophe	The title of this book is reminiscent of Byron's words - that friendship is love without its wings. Often we hear the cliche that a particular film did not live up to the expectations of the book. In this case, with careful direction, a film version of 'Birds Without Wings' could be even better than the book itself. The limited duration of a film would cut out, for instance, long passages of narrative that are often cluttered with too many historical details - thus sometimes interrupting the flow of the sometimes charming quasi-poetic prose. The reader can certainly feel the sensitivity in this moving episode of history. Though I only read this in the Greek translation (the only copy I could find), I preferred it to 'Captain Corelli's Mandolin' which I thought was marred by a distortion of the historical truth, undermining (and misrepresenting) the role of the Greek resistance. The author has also matured as a writer.'Birds Without Wings' is a more convincing attempt and a good example of how a talented creative writer with inspiration and just a smattering of language and culture can see, from a distance, more clearly than a fluent academic who may be too immersed in a culture to focus at all. Here the focus is on the people - their feelings, their sufferings, their interreactions and their vicissitudes of fate. While I rate this as merely a good to very good novel, I rate the author as an excellent novlist. What makes de Bernieres stand out is his perceptions and insight into human nature and feelings (even if his political analyses are sometimes incorrect). It is easy for all authors to simplify the Asia Minor catastrophe. Surprisingly, if one actually sits down and talks to many elderly Greeks (Pontians or Smyrniots) as well as Greek Cypriots, they do not all blame the ordinary Turkish peolple for the political events that precipitated their fate as refugees. Many have fond memories of the times when the two communities coexisted harmoniously (I also speak Turkish and have several good Turkish friends). In the case of the tragedy of Smyrna, it was the 'cete' (the initial'c' should have a cedilla) or Turkish irregular 'soldier' who arrived first to attack the city and not the official soldiers of the Turkish army who were responsible for the atrocities. The priveleged financial status of the Greek community (like that of the industrious and successful Jewish population of pre-Nazi Germany)undoubtedly inspired envy and resentfulness among just certain portions of the people. However, many Turkish neighbours and friends did not resent the Greeks' presence. In fact, Greek have usually felt just as hurt by the betrayal of their 'allies' who did not interevene to intercept a potentially dangerous situation. This novel was also published too soon to be aware of the new argument on this issue (as reflected in the quality Greek television serial 'Ta Pedia tis Niovis')in which a great deal of responsibility for the tragic events is attributed to the Greek government (at disagreement with itself) which withdrew the troops that could have protected the fleeing Greek citizens. The author's work is sensitive but his appraisal of the historical-political situation is nothing new. Perhaps it is best not to dwell too much rake up old wounds (particularly since it is now too late for the architects of this tragedy to be brought to justice). This is indeed a promising novel but despite some powerful passages and a few plausible and strong characters, it did not exploit that promise to the full. I believe that de Bernieres' best work is yet to come - i.e. a work that will be a great novel as well as just(rather than just) a best-seller. This is a work that touches both Greek and Turk but at the same time leaves some questions unanswered. It is no good for either of us (Greek or Turk) to stay and dwell in the past. What is important is not where we come from but where we are going.	2005-03-25
US	33930616	R1ZRPIB7U7TQT7	0743272927	740688030	The Official Fahrenheit 9/11 Reader	Books	5	11	18	N	N	A piece of true satire from a real patriot	When I saw the film I just had to buy the book. Michael is a kind and decent human being and his work is inspired by a need to tell the truth even at his own expense just so that he can help his fellow-men. Even though he does not go round ostentatiously brandishing a Bible and telling everyone that he goes to church (for political reasons), I would call him a REAL christian. I admire him both as an artist and as a man. Perhaps the only slight weakness which I can infer from the pages is a somewhat naive belief (since Michael is such a nice person and also an optimist)that things would have been different with the Democrats. Perhaps any difference would only have been in the degree. With a leader of Jimmy Carter's calibre and moral integrity I admit things would certainly have been a lot different. However, I can also remember watching on Greek television the thousands of innocent victims of the unprevented African genocide since Clinton's administration had neglected to intervene; yet selectively there was interference elsewhere. I remember, for instance, watching scenes (not shown on American T.V.) of casualties following the  bombing of certain targets such as residential areas in Belgrade. At the time Mrs. Allbright had expressed the view that the hundreds of dead children in Yugoslavia had been \\"worth it\\".	2005-03-25
US	33930616	R3VX7C8XE4UHCU	0771015356	951283375	The World Encyclopedia of Christmas	Books	5	9	9	N	N	My Favourite Christmas Book	I enjoyed every entry of Dr. Bowler's fascinating encyclopaedia. It is rich not only in folk traditions but also in terms of popular culture. There are many entries on Christmas films, modern fairy tales with a Christmas theme, carols, art, festive food, legends of flowers and plants associated with the Christmas season.There are also entries on Christmas games as well as biographical entries. Interesting details are shared about customs from a wide variety of countries and regional traditions of the British Isles are also represented. There is also a rich collection of technical terms from various languages that pertain to Christmas and New Year traditions. One very minor weakness of this book (apart from a lack of index and bibliography) was that it needed perhaps tighter editing with the use of some of these foreign words. For instance, in the excellent entry on Greece the correct word for carols is 'kalanda'(which is already plural in form) not'kalandas'. Moreoever, for consistency the  Greek Christmas cookies 'loukoumathes' and 'kourabiedes' should not be spelt with different suffixes since they have the same penultimate consanant and should end in '-adhes'(i.e. loukoumadhes and kourabiedhes - the 'dh' beiong pronounced like the 'th' in 'then' rather than the 'th' in 'thin'). Moreover, the Romanian custom of the 'sorcova' in which children \\"tap their elders lightly with a small branch\\" is unlikely to be \\"derived from the word for 'forty'\\" as the author suggests. I would argue that this word is a cognate of the Northern Greek and Bulgarian word 'sourva'(this word is missing) which is a type of branch (usually from the cornel tree) which is used for tapping people at Christmas and New Year for good health. The author does provide some interesing related entries on 'holming' and 'beating'. The author also shows an awareness of a very unusual custom of placing a coin in the 'christopsomo' or Christmas (day) bread. As he correctly acknowledges, the most established form of this custom is the coin in the 'vasilopita'(or St. Basil's pie) on New Year's day. As I am interested in Celtic folklore, I was pleased to see many entries from Irish, Scottish and Welsh folklore (alas nothing from Cornwall). There are a few interesting entries from Manx (the newly revived language of the Isle of Man)one of which was the 'quaaltagh'. Although this is translated by the author as 'firstfooter' it does not apply to a first footer in the traditional sense (i.e. the first person to enter a house) but rather it had the unique nuance of refering to the first person met when one went OUTSIDE the house. The allusion to the 'eisteddfod' (Welsh  cultuarl fesitval of music and poetry etc) is a little incongruous. Despite the fact that the first 'eisteddfod' did happen to take place at Christmas time. it has little direct relation to Christmas- and now does not take place in the Christmas season. By contrast, there were a few ommissions. For instance, an interesting entry is provided for Croatia but there is nothing for the distinct customs of Serbia (apart from the entry on the 'badnjak' which is common to both). Similarly we have the Irish 'Nollaig na bhFear' or 'men's Christmas' but not 'Nollaig na mBan' (i.e.'Woman's Christmas'). However, as I say, such details are minor indeed and hardly detract from the excellence of the work.  I did learn a great deal from this work and it certainly deserves at least five stars!	2005-03-23
US	33930616	R1JD14OZKLB03C	222191192X	549211492	Le folklore franais (coffret de 4 volumes)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The Greatest work on French folklore	For those who read French, this four-volume masterpiece is the most comprehensive work on the folklore of France. Even though it is classed as currently unavailable, I was pleasantly surprised that my Amazon password gives instant access to Amazon France, Amazon Germany or any other branch that may be more likely to stock a paticular title. This major work is in total 3,099 pages!! It is an indispenable tool for any library or for scholars interested in comparative folklore. It contains an excellent record of the disctinct  regional versions/forms of every single tradition and also provides the different local dialect names for the various customs. While there are no indeces, the analytical references to the customs are fully annotated with rich footnotes. The first volume deals with rites of passage: customs associated with birth, christening, childhood, adolescence, engagement, weddings, post-wedding rituals such as the 'charivari' and mourning customs. This volume also describes carnival customs, the period of Lent and traditions connected with Holy Week (from Palm Sunday to Easter). The second volume pertains to May day celebrations and festivities that took place on St. John's day (24th June). There are also descriptions of many fascinating agricultural customs of the summer and the autumn. The third volume is rich in Christmas material. Even though the period of Advent is not mentioned, there are interesting descriptions of the various gift-bringers, eg. Le Pere Noel, the Christmas log, festive food, the Christmas tree, Christmas songs and carols, magical rituals and customs connected with Boxing Day. There are also detailed descriptions of New Year customs (it is on New Year's day that the French exchange 'etrennes'[with an acute accent on the first 'e'] which are New Year's gifts). There is also interesting material related to Epiphany or 'Les Rois'(i.e.'The Kings'). This volume is supplemented by some miscellaneous essays about different folklore subjects. The fourth volume constitutes a bibliography which is arranged both regionally and thematically. It also includes a list of the author's major works. This is the ultimate work in French folklore by the most distinguished scholar.	2005-03-20
US	33930616	R1CWXZOHYWRNWL	9178431778	289293267	Swedish Christmas	Books	4	11	17	N	N	A  delightful Christmas album	Since both authors are professional photographers, it is to be expected that the photographs in this book are all excellent and many are artistic. I was in a dilemma as to how many stars I should give to rate this book. As a Christmas album it deserves at least five stars. However, as a book about Christmas customs I would only give it three (therefore on average I give it four).  Firstly, I would like to say that the content of the book is often written in a very warm and readable way and it is full of childhood reminiscences and vivid description. For other readers I must admit, this style might well be preferable. Personally, I had hoped that the book would have had a much greater folklore content (something analogous with Kathleen Stokker's \\"Keeping Christmas: Yuletide Traditions in Norway and the New Land\\", 2000). There is a minimal amount of interesting allusions to folk customs. However, they are not described in detail. Moreover, another problem comes from the actual translation into English. A translator should never translate certain words. For instance, on p. 32 there is a reference to the St.Lucia day  (Dec. 13th) custom of boys \\"wearing tall, funnel-shaped hats (like dunce caps)\\". It would have been nice to have included the actual Swedish name for this cap (some Swedish friends of mine call it a 'strut' or 'cone' but I am not sure if there is a 'proper' name as well?). Swedish is one of the languages I speak and  I believe that more Swedish terms would have improved the work and given more local flavour. Similarly, on p.12 there is a reference to the \\"Advent candelabra\\" with four candles (one for each week of Advent). Here it should have been explained that this is called an 'adventjusstarka'. Again the ubiquitous \\"Christmas goat\\" should also have been given its proper name (julbock). Such a detail is important since the word 'julbock' is  very different from the related cognate terms of  the Finnish 'joulupukki' (who is Santa himself) and the Norwegian 'julebukking' (which refers to Christmas mumming). Likewise, \\"Santa's rice pudding\\" on p. 69 in which there is a hidden almond is called 'risgryngrot' (with an umlaut on the 'o'). This reminds me of the lucky coin hidden in the Greek 'vasilopita' or St. Basil's new year pie). Moreover, the \\"sheaf of straw\\" mentioned on p. 44 which is a bundle of oats left outside for the birds is called a 'julkarve'( with an accent on the 'a' and which corresponds to the Norwegian 'julenek'). There are indeed some fascinating references to traditions such as the fortune-telling with lead (molybdomancy) on New Year's day. I also enjoyed the superstitions mentioned in connection with the early church service on Christmas day (on p.121). This service is actually called the 'julottan' - again a word that the authors had neglected to share. There are also several basic details and customs which have not been included. For instance, no mention is made of the lucia buns being called 'lussekatter'(i.e. Lucy cats) and  neither is there any mention of the custom of 'kasta julskomme' or throwing a type of braided straw figure (the 'julbock' is just one such type). This custom was performed as a joke on a neighbour's door or as a courting ritual. Another weakness is that the photographs (though beautifully taken) are not labelled. Captions would have been most useful. For instance, I wanted to know the significance (and word for) the oranges that are studded with cloves in photographs on pages 57 and 132. I have met this custom in the Ionian islands where it was called a 'prokado portokali' and it was given to solicit gifts on New Year's day. It is also reminiscent of the Welsh 'calennig'. It should also be mentioned that the book  provide many enjoyable recipes (even if the names for these recipes are not supplied) as well as some practical tips about making Christmas crackers and a gingerbread house. The authors  have done a great deal of work and, despite my comments (coloured by my ownpersonal taste and preferences), I am sure that this would be the ideal Christmas book for many readers. If you are looking for a beautiful Christmas souvenir from Sweden then it is the perfect gift. For this reason I would actually buy another copy of it for certain friends - however,  I could not buy it for any of my colleagues. Dr. M. Sfaellou.	2005-03-13
US	33930616	R1WS644LWTEKFH	0304351679	444146068	Cassell's Dictionary of Slang	Books	5	7	8	N	N	The most comprehensive work on modern slang	One of the most interesting aspects of any language is the study of idiomatic and colloquial expressions. The use(or understanding)of slang words indicates a person's true command of a language. Here we have one of the greatest collections of modern slang words in the English language (as opposed to the analogous work on historical slang by Partridge - Lighter's superb work 'Historical Dictionary of American Slang' is alas still unfinished). Moreover, it seems that Green's purpose was to provide an extensive list of terms rather than give detailed etymologies. Hence, the entries are abundant yet concise. There may not be the analytical observations and quotations that one would find in Tony Thorne's 'Dictionary of Contemporary Slang'(the enlarged 3rd edition has just come out)but there are many more words and phrases.        It is true that perhaps any specific dictionary of slang such as a dictionary specialising in the slang of the underworld or Afro-American slang etc. might have a slighly larger collection of those particular terms. However, this mammoth work covers every possible area of slang. Perhaps there are far too many entries on sexual slang (and associated perverted practices etc.) than I would have liked. Yet perhaps the author thought that their exclusion could have made the work defective or lacking in some way. Indeed, it is unfortunate that the connotations of the word 'slang' have changed so that now 'slang' no longer means just colloquial jargon but the obscene tongue. This dictionary is  thus also a reflection of this new meaning. However, despite the profusion of dubious/unsavoury entries, the dictionary is also rich in other forms of slang such as criminal slang, rhyming slang, black American slang and post-war slang. There are also many racist slang terms, many of which were first presented in the author's interesting work \\"Words Apart: The Language of Prejudice\\" (1996) in which he compiled an immense list of ethnic insults and nicknames. Not only has he incorporated  most of these in this great dictionary but he has also added many more similar phrases. For instance, the word 'French', which is often used in conjunction with phrases that pertain to some form of sexual deviance, appears in a wide vairiety of  other expressions too: Frenchwoman (i.e. fortune-teller)and French harp (harmonica), etc. The Spaniards also come in for some abuse with terms like Spanish time (unpunctuality), and Spanish waiter (potato) is an example of rhyming slang. Similarly Mexican oats means nonsense and either a Mexican jeep or a Mexican carriage is a donkey. Moreover, the word 'Dutch' (which across the Atlantic refers to someone from Holland, not Germany) is used in phrases like a Dutch nightingale (a frog). There are also several similar expressions with a host of other nationalities such as the Irish. However, for a much more extensive list of phrases with the word 'Irish'(with not only similar jocular phrases but many other expressions besides) one should read the book by Thornton B.Edwards \\"Irish! A Dictionary of Phrases, Terms and Epithets beginning with the word 'Irish'\\". His other book \\"Welsh Nots, Welsh Notes and Welsh Nuts\\" is a similar collection of phrases with the word 'Welsh' (see my reviews of both of these books here). There are many slang entries from both these books with the words 'Irish' and 'Welsh' that have not been included in Green's dictionary. Similarly Smead's excellent work 'Vocabulario Vaquero' provides several extra  slang phrases with the words 'Spanish' and 'Mexican'. Yet I envisage that such missing entries from  these and many  other books will no doubt be incorporated in any revised supplemeted editions of this great work. Green has already included so much in this first edition. It is a materpiece as well as an invaluable contribution to (and record of) the English language. It belongs to every bookshelf.	2005-03-12
US	33930616	R2S493SJEL084A	0618152385	617593430	Throw Your Tooth on the Roof: Tooth Traditions from Around the World	Books	5	23	24	N	N	A  delightful book for children and adults	Even though this book was written primarily for children, as a folklorist I found it most enjoyable and discovered so many fascinating traditions that are not recorded in any folklore archives. Here every single continent is represented and we learn how children of different nationalities dispose of their lost milk tooth. Of course, it is only to be expected that a few obscure examples have not been included. For instance, there is no reference to the old Cornish custom by which \\"children's first teeth are burnt to prevent dog's teeth or 'snaggles' - irregular teeth coming in their stead\\" (M.A. Courtney \\"Folklore and Legends of Cornwall\\", 1890, rep. 1989, pp. 156-7). Moreover, there is no mention of the Maltese custom of burying the tooth in a flower pot so that the new tooth (like the plant in the pot) will emerge (Pullicino, J.C. \\"Studies in Maltese Folklore\\", Malta Univ. Press, 1976, rep.1992, p.245). Yet there are so many fascinating examples, most of which were unknown to me. I was pleasantly surprised to see the Greek custom of throwing the milk tooth onto the roof ( a custom I was interested to learn is also pracitised in Korea and Taiwan). Infact, in Greece the throwing of the tooth onto the roof is accompanied by the reciting of a little rhyme which can be loosely translated as follows: 'Take sow my tooth and give me an iron one so that I can chew rusks'. In some regions of Greece, it is a mouse not a sow which is invoked. Therefore I was interested to see how the mouse also features in several parallel traditions throughout the world. For instance, we learn that Spanish children believe that the mouse Ratoncito Perez will substitute the tooth under the pillow for money or sweets(candies) as will his French counterpart La Petite Souris. Some peoples wrap their teeth in various materials for different reasons. Children of other nations bury their teeth ( e.g. Filipino children to make a wish). Yet in Turkey it is parents, not children who bury the tooth.Thai and Vietnames children dispose of their teeth in different ways, depending on whether it is an upper or lower tooth. The custom of Tajikistan reminded me of  Greek mythology since the 'sown' teeth 'grow up to be warriors'. There are so many more interesting examples and it would be a shame for me to divulge more of them here. It is better to have access to all the examples by buying a copy of this book. I can guarantee that both you and your children will thoroughly enjoy it!	2005-03-10
US	33930616	R3GCCQ7SAB7BVT	0717126838	630188808	Slanguage a Dictionary of Irish Slang	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A Rare Collection of Irish Colloquial Words	Unfortunately, the word 'slang' has become misused to mean a body of language that refers to sexual and often perverted practices. This collection does NOT use the word 'slang' in that narrow modern context. Here 'slang' is used merely in the sense of 'vulgar' in its etymological sense (i.e.  to refer to 'common'colloquial forms of the language). Infact what is so interesting is that the entries, even for the Irish themselves are not all that common. The reader can find so much that is new on every single page. This is an exellent collection of Hiberno-English (Irish English) vocabulary. The author often provides the etymology from the actual Irish language (as opposed to Irish/Hiberno-English) and also locates certain words that were coined (or used ) by writers by quoting judicious extracts showing the  original context of such terms. Another important point is that the words do not usually refer to ordinary translateable concepts but are often fascinating examples of unique terms that cover concepts in Irish folklore, history or everyday life for which there is no equivalent. This collection will be enjoyed not only by the Irish but by any serious specialist in dialects of the English language. A masterpiece!	2005-03-05
US	33930616	RTV6NGLK5EGUO	0198600593	96818468	A Concise Ulster Dictionary	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A valuable collection of Ulster language and Folklore	Anyone who is interested in Irish culture will invariably be interested in the rich language of the Irish people. The beautiful Irish language is still alive in the 'Gaeltachtai'(Irish-speaking areas) on the West coast. There is also the  unusual phenomenon of an urban 'Gaeltacht'in Belfast. Infact the North of Ireland has such a wealth of language that this dictionary was greatly needed. The North (or Ulster) has a remarkable amalgamation of various sub-dialects of Irish English (as well as the actual Irish language itself) and also traces of the dialect of Ulster Scots (spoken by those descended from the Protestant planters who came to Ireland from Scotland). This dictionary is a marvellous record of the speech of all people of Northern Ireland and will be enjoyed by Catholics and Protestans alike. Here there is a wealth of folklore and history since so many of the entries refer to untranslateable concepts pertaining to folk customs, farming tools, folk crafts and so many other interesting topics. The Irish etymologies as well as other cognates are always provided. This is a necessary addition to anuy serious library of Irish books together with any work by O'Muirithe (all available through Amazon) and  also Bernard Share's 'Slanguage'(which is not a collection of 'slang' in the dubious sense of the word but a remarkable compilation of Irish English terms with their etymologies and judicious quotes to cite the sources of each entry).	2005-03-05
US	33930616	R2EIEWEHLZSC1U	0304363340	159273117	Brewer's Dictionary of Irish Phrase & Fable (Cassell Dictionary of...)	Books	5	13	14	N	N	A Fascinating Compilation of Irish Facts and Lore	I have already read this work from cover to cover in a previous translatlantic edition (pub. by Weidenfeld and Nicolson,London, 1994) and I can guarantee that it is truly a brilliant work. American (and Irish-American) readers have every reason to look forward to the next publication of this and to pre-order it now to be sure that they don't miss a copy. For those of you who are familiar with the phenomenon of 'Brewer's Dictionary of Phrase and Fable' they will realise how enjoyable each entry is for lovers of words, folklore, history, mythology and so many more topics. The original Brewers dictionary covered a whole range of WORLD lore. It is so incredible that the distinguished authors have managed to present no fewer than 6,000 brilliant entries just related to Ireland!!! This book is an essential reference tool not only for the Irish (this book belongs to all Irish people who have every reason to be proud of it). It should also be possessed by anyone who seriously loves folklore and language lore and who has a love and respect for the history and culture of the beautiful Emerald Isle. P.S. As readers of my other reviews may notice, I always give good star ratings since I only review works that I believe are excellent (there is no point in anyone writing spiteful comments about books that are unworthy of a review).	2005-03-05
US	33930616	RPV1LXUQZPG42	1856354202	419150124	Irish: A Dictionary of Phrases, Terms and Epithets	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	A MOST UNIQUE DICTIONARY	I have long been interested in Irish culture and I was so excited to find this title. It is a marvellous collection of phrases which capture the culture of Ireland - covering folkore, language , history, food, sport, music and so many other areas. I can guarantee that even the most specialist readers will find something new on every page. Here we have practically every phrase with the word 'Irish'- the only phrases I had known before were Irish coffee and Irish moss etc. but the author provides us with over 1,000 such phrases which range from fruit varieties, varieties of flowers and plants (e.g. Irish lemon - which is also a nickname for a potato), breeds of dogs (e.g. Irish water spaniel) and poultry breeds (Irish brown-red), cocktails and personal epithets too. There are measurements like the Irish mile (much more than an English mile) and historical terms such as the Irish Famine and Irish faction fights. Personal epithets include the Irish Achilles and the word 'Irish' is also prefixed to place names like the Irish Lourdes (i.e. Knock, Co. Mayo). There are also the expected jocular entries such as the Irish cherry (a carrot),an Irish buggy (a wheelbarrow)and an Irish favorite (an emerald - so called as Ireland is the 'Emerald Isle'). I also enjoyed the incredible list of phrases with the word 'paddy' in one of the several appendices. There is also a useful bibliography (most titles of which can be found by Amazon).     It could be argued that this fascinating work has now been surpassed by Thornton B. Edward's latest book \\"Cornish! A Dictionary of Phrases, Terms and Expithets with the word' Cornish'\\". Perhaps the author's knowledge of Cornish culture is even greater than his knowledge of Ireland. This analogous collection includes entries such as the 'Cornish duck' (not a bird at all but the common pilchard!), 'Cornish rex' (a breed of cat), 'Cornish elm' (a species of tree) and 'Cornish aromatic' (a variety of apple) etc. This work make a welcome companion tothe Irish collection and it is available on the Amazon. uk site.	2005-03-04
US	33930616	R30MX44CO5J5ZM	0684020157	567016200	Greenspeak: Ireland in Her Own Words	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Rich Collection of Irish Language and Lore	Like Loreto Todd (who used the phrase 'Green English' for his popular work) so Dr. Paddy Sammon likewise uses the word 'Green' to refer to that which is Irish - hence 'Green English' refers to Irish English. Yet this dictionary is no ordinary collection of the Hiberno-English dialect. It is an excellent compilation of not only intetesting Anglo-Irish/Hiberno-English words, but also fascinating little-known terms and facts pertaining to Irish folklore and culture. Everyone who loves Ireland should have this book. It is written by a diplomat/linguist (who, as I was delighted to learn, speaks modern Greek as well as several other languages). His expertise in the Irish language( and his tremendous knowledge of facts, folklore and history etc. related to his own culture) is evident on each page. Dr.M.G.Sfaellou.	2005-03-04
US	33930616	R2X89UW3MZ2WN4	0863814859	617864365	Welsh Nots, Welsh Notes and Welsh Nuts: A Dictionary of Phrases with the Word Wesh (Welsh Heritage)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Goldmine of Welsh language and Folklore	I noticed this brilliant dictionary entirely by coincidence when I saw the title in the bibilography of Thornton B. Edwards' other book \\"Irish! A Dictionary of Phrases, Terms and Epithets with the word'Irish'\\" (for which see my brief review here).It is an amazing work, perhaps not quite so well-edited as his Irish companion,with a similar theme. The author has compiled an extensive list of all phrases with the word 'Welsh'. I had heard about Welsh rabbit/rarebit(i.e. cheese on toast), Welshcakes and also Welsh bedding (i.e bundling) and the Welsh comb (similar to an Irish rifle) but there were so many phrases which I hadn't met before - like the Welsh acre and Welsh wig etc. I also learnt  the reason why some people still use the racist term 'to Welsh' (and was pleased to discover that it has no relation to this admirable race of Celts). There are entries from food, sport, flora and fauna as well as history. There are also personal epithets like the Welsh Nightingale and the Welsh Homer, toponyms like the Welsh Colditz and Welsh Alps and even breeds of dogs, cattle and sheep (such as the Welsh mule). There is also an introduction and a rich bibliography of interesting titles, some of which are in Welsh. An excellent collection !	2005-03-04
