US	33954650	RC9NE70HEC8D3	0192836021	259599405	The Ladies' Paradise (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	10	13	N	N	Nothing New Under The Sun ? Re-Read The Novel	With his Rougon-Macquart series, Emile Zola established the family saga. He put into naturalistic prose and photographic narrative the tales of a family and how their lives are affected by their surroundings. In L'Assomoir, he focused on the lives of the Provencals, those who live in the French countryside, whose lives may appear peaceful and orderly but might not be at a closer look. In Nana, he wrote about the world of the courtesan or high class prostitute operating in the beauty and sex-obscessed French culture of Paris. In \\"Au Bonheur Des Dames\\" (The Lady's Paradise) Zola exposes the capitalism and consumer culture of fashion, as expressed in the sales at the department stores.<br />It was the time of Karl Marx, a time when conservative elements came into conflict with those of individual expression and equal rights. Previously, Emile Zola's novels were bleak, Dickensian and depressing, making a cynical social commentary that progress and idealism is stifled under staunch older generations of Republican power (in this case the French Second Empire under Louis Napoleon III). He conveyed so much pain and suffering in \\"Germinal\\" about the coal mine workers in rural France. Like John Steinbeck of the 19th century, Emile Zola immersed himself in what he wrote, treating people as humanly real as possible, touching a chord to so many for his unabashed truths.<br />In The Ladies Paradise (the title refers to the name of the high class department store in downtown Paris), Zola portrays the fetish and profitable business of women's fashion. Octave Mouret, who at fist comes off as a money-loving, greedy, corporate seducer learns the value of progress and the rights of the individual. Where as he had always dominated women, manipulating them to buy his endless carrousel of hats, silks, gowns and shoes, he cannot win the affections of the newcomer sales girls Denise.<br />Denis eyes become our eyes as we see into the sexist world of consumer capitalism. Even today, this holds true. Women are encouraged, enforced and expected to be beautiful and attractive, with 0 size dresses, with fashionable tastes and so forth. Those who cannot meet society's self-imposed ideals of beauty crack under the pressure, becoming anorexic, anxious and sick. Super models, department stores, fashion magazines and the latest trends to look like Britney Spears (and behave just as shallow and air-headed) is the way to happiness they say. Emile Zola completely transports you to Paris of the 1870's and 1880's a time when the world seemed to be losing its better values. Is it still losing its values ? Only through advocating women's rights, individual expression, equality, and less stifling elements in society are we truly to be happy.	2003-05-10
US	33954650	R3Q2Z5K0G7K1IS	0380728850	795553485	The True Confessions of Charlotte Doyle	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Adventure.. Sea.. Pirates.. A Great Tale For Women!	Avi has written award-winning books for a pre-adolescent audience, with a captivating voice and with unmatched success. Perhaps readers remember him from \\"Nothing But The Truth\\". In \\"True Confessions\\" he writes a novel about a strong and subversive young girl who defies mores and conventions of her day, rid the bad guy from the scene and save the day. It is full of mystery, suspense and plenty of action. Nevertheless, the romanticism of the historical period, the precise descriptions of the ship and the overall sense of good winning is remarkably written. I read this novel as a younger girl, and was quite entranced. The 1991 original cover featured Charlotte, radiant, her hair windswept wearing a lovely dress, by the starboard of the ship. This cover might have fooled some readers. Far from the conventional romance or swash-buckler it may come off as at first, it is not. It is Charlotte Doyle who single handedly finds herself, rescues others while doing it and defeats the terrible, dictatorial, sadist sea captain Jaggerty.<br />Initially, Charlotte, following the formulaic conventions of Victorian women of her day, does not oppose Jaggerty, even though some crew members, who are good at heart, desire mutiny. After she discovers for herself how cruel, how insensitive and inhuman this Jaggerty is, she joins the crew, dresses a sailor and finds herself in a spiraling series of events leading to the climatic finale. Charlotte Doyle is a great heroine, free-willed, independent and still, very feminine. She is a great role model in literature for young girls who can read the exciting prose of Avi. <br />I don't need to praise this novel anymore. Avi has done a marvelous job, a wondrous work of historical fiction with a strong awareness of women's empowerment. Hurray for Avi. I have not read a book by him in a long time. Perhaps he did'nt have to. Charlotte Doyle is his masterpiece and his other novels will live forever in the book shelves of many libraries and bookstores.Even if you have to find the out-of-print original copies. There are ways... thank God for the internet.	2003-05-10
US	33954650	R3OHZ9R9E1E9GO	0393057615	415395630	Sappho's Leap: A Novel	Books	5	18	20	N	N	Love Comes In Many Forms: Erica Jong At Her Best	Erica Jong is best known for her first novel \\"Fear of Flying\\" which was immersed in tremendous success. Pro-feminist, spiritual, poetic, tolerant and highly intellectual, Erica Jong has written numerous novels that deal with women, men, true love, lust, bad relationships, good relationships, the list is endless. Her novels are of the highest literary caliber, and the erotica she writes goes far beyond sensual pleasure. It becomes a religious experience.<br />Erica Jong's \\"Sappho's Leap\\" is about the historic lesbian poet Sappho, who lived in thousands of years ago in the Greek island of Lesbos. From Lesbos, we get the term \\"lesbian.\\" And it was Sappho who encouraged free love, female independence, equal rights and a lot of modern ideals that were considered unorthodox in her day. Sappho was enamored with women, as well as men, and this quasi-historic novel does not merely serve to titillate the reader with her erotic adventures, it is instead a great portrayal of the great Greek poetess, a mystic journey back in time and a fervent celebration of life.<br />Sappho is born to an aristocratic family. When she was born, a prophetess announced that she would become famous one day. Aphrodite champions Sappho's cause and makes a bet with Zeus. Zeus and Aphrodite play a game with her life... will Sappho become the famous singer and Greek philosopher she wants to be ? Or will, as Zeus, insists, merely conform to women of her time and marry an unworthy man ? It is Sappho, in the end, who decides her own destiny. The novel is romantic, highly dramatic and full of historic accuracies, enhanced visually by the involvement of gods, goddesses and historic figures such as Queen Jezabel from the Old Testament and the fable writer Aesop. A good read for men and women alike, this novel is sure to touch you with its humor, sadness, and profound wisdom. Viva Erica Jong!	2003-05-04
US	33954650	R2GC3YAIF58YZ2	034543014X	544398776	The Princess Bride: S. Morgenstern's Classic Tale of True Love and High Adventure (The 25th Anniversary Edition)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A Masterpiece.. A Parody Of Romantic Adventure	William Goldman's novel, \\"The Princess Bride\\" is a must have for fans of fantasy, romance and adventure. Tinged with sophisticated humor, parody, satire and fairy tale elements, there is no literary work quite like it. William Goldman has written for the movies (Butch Cassidy and the Sun Dance Kid, The Stepford Wives) and \\"The Princess Bride\\" itself became a popular film in 1987. There are, in the market, two versions of the novel- paperback and hardcover. This hardcover edition boasts on having \\"the good parts\\", abridged so that only the more appealing aspects remain, alluring its reader to the fabled classic by S. Morgenstern. S. Morgenstern had written prolifically and abundantly on court etiquette and a history of the fictitious European kingdom of Florin. Goldman proceeded to abridge the long novel and leave only \\"the good parts\\"- fencing, poison, daring escapes, true love, hate, revenge and good guys versus bad guys.<br />Of course, this is merely to attract the impressionable and excitable young reader. There is no S. Morgenstern, it is all William Goldman's fabrication. But the idea works in this novel. The novel is written in comprehensible diction, it is not stuffy, not eloquent or lofty in language. It is dramatic, exciting and very convincing. The novel, after all, is a parody of escapist fantasy romance. Buttercup was a farmer's daughter who fell in love with the field hand Wesley. Wesley went to America to seek his fortune but never returned. Thinking he had died or was captured by the \\"dread Captain Roberts\\", an evil pirate, Buttercup mourned his absence and vowed \\"I will never love again.\\" Wesley, however, is not dead, and returns to Florin to seek his true love. Nevertheless, he finds that Buttercup has become betrothed to the wicked, odious Prince Humperdinc.<br />Humperdinc is a vain, conceited and sinister man. His motives for marrying Buttercup were never those of true love. Being the villain, his real goal is to have her killed. I will not giveout the rest of the story for those who have not read it. As always, my advise is to read the novel first, then see the movie. But you will be greatly satisfied with the novel. The characters are rich, unforgettable and highly entertaining- we are amused by the  witty repartee of the genius Italian bandit who captures Buttercup, his sidekick the less intelligent giant, and the brave and daring Spanish hero, Inigo Montoya.<br />This novel is romantic, witty, humorous, exciting, and never dull. The novel is a welcome collection in your bookshelf. Kudos to William Goldman for his creative genius on this very literary and sophisticated work of fiction.	2003-04-27
US	33954650	R4II3E4FKUS9O	0553213415	73897934	Madame Bovary (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	2	4	N	N	The French Masterpiece Of Romantic Tragedy	Gustav Flaubert wrote Madame Bovary to establish a modern form of literature. Because it touched a nerve to so many people with its shocking portrayal of a bored housewife who commits adultery and escapes her misery through suicide, it was initially banned from the bookstores. The French at the time of Napoleon III's Second Empire considered themselves strictly Catholic Republicans. They thought the novel was graphic, immoral and unsuitable for French literature. Of course, that was back in the 19th century. Nowadays, it is regarded as one of the classic masterpieces of French literature, akin and almost the equivalent to the Russian tragedy by Leo Tolstoy, Anna Karenina. Because so much has changed, we know see this beautiful, touching tragedy as a great work of fiction and in the wake of feminist movements, a great reminder that women are not objects nor property for men to have as housewives, that they are free-willed, independent and right in their decisions.<br />Everything about this novel is a considerately written work of great art. The technique Flaubert utilizes is superb. He uses precision and photographic detail to transport us convincingly to a time and place, full of realistic characters and ideas that were true in their time. It began a movement away from the fluffy, romanticized fiction of historic past to more modern themes that are more real. A lot of the novel has so much going on, so much activity, that although the provincial, rustic life bores Emma Bovary, it captivates us. Emma Bovary, obviously out of her affinity to her family's tradition, marries a country doctor and becomes a housewife in Normandy, the French countryside.<br />Emma's boring life is so accurately portrayed, that we truly feel for her desperate situation. Her husband does not seem to be the type who understands her either. The bored housewife will appear later in such modern novels as \\"The Bridges Of Madison County.\\" Emma Bovary escapes through reading romance and adventure novels. This is believable because there were such novels at this time- those of Alexandre Dumas, Stendhal and not mention all the Gothic fiction that had been written. Emma wants to live a glamorous life, away from the demanding dullness of country life. She engages in adultery, and later, when her husband is about to discover her infidelity, she is stricken with guilt and emotional suffering that she overdoses and dies.<br />The fate of Madame Bovary will not be so for women today, thank God. Still, reading the suffering, torn feelings of love and domestic duties, and her entire psychological deterioration is what makes this a classic, ranking right up there with Leo Tolstoy's tragic novel, Anna Karenina.novels. This is believable because there were such novels at this time- those of Alexandre Dumas, Stendhal and not mention all the Gothic fiction that had been written. Emma wants to live a glamorous life, away from the demanding dullness of country life. She engages in adultery, and later, when her husband is about to discover her infidelity, she is stricken with guilt and emotional suffering that she overdoses and dies. <br />The fate of Madame Bovary will not be so for women today, thank God. Still, reading the suffering, torn feelings of love and domestic duties, and her entire psychological deterioration is what makes this a classic, ranking right up there with Leo Tolstoy's tragic novel, Anna Karenina.	2003-04-26
US	33954650	R3HM4I9Z264QE6	0810928973	757242977	Degas: The Man and His Art (Abrams Discoveries)	Books	5	19	33	N	N	The Greatest Artist Of The 19th Century	Edgar Degas has a special place in my heart. No other artist used as many women as Degas did for subject.  He is my favorite Impressionist artist and I regard his art as the finest, most realistic, meaningful and most beautiful of the late 19th century. Degas is most famous for his paintings of ballerinas, but he was a prolific artist and seemed to live only for his art.<BR>When he died, he expressed his final wish: that during his funeral service, speeches must indicate that his greatest love was art and that he should be remembered as a great artist.<br />That's exactly how we remember him. This book provides a plethora of his paintings, and details about his life. It's very sad that this book is close to becoming out of print. I am honored to be the first to review this book. The cover painting is &quot;L'Etoile&quot; or &quot;The Star on Stage&quot;. Degas painted ballerinas in the French opera-theaters in the 1870's. He was influenced by Japenese prints which enabled him to draw harmony and space. He was able to capture the transience of life, fleeting moments, as the ballerinas danced or moved in the stage during a performance. He also painted them during rehearsals and waiting in flocks in the wings. The pastels and oils were vibrant, colorful and made the ballerinas look nearly surreal in their artificial theatrical surrounding scenery. For contrast to the light and bright colors, he included gentlemen in dark suites waiting for the ballerinas backstage or observing them from a distance.<br />Edgar Degas, a gifted intellectual, had many friends in the art and literary world. Among his friends were the Naturalist writer Emile Zola and the Impressionist artist Edouard Manet. Degas participated in the Impressionist Exhibitions, was part of the movement by all means, although he considered himself a Realist painter of natural movement and contemporary society. He was a modern man in many respects and it was Degas who personally defended and helped Mary Cassat, the feminist and professional artist from America, exhibit with the Impressionists. This was a time when the art world was still very male-dominated. Mary Cassat and Edgar Degas remained good friends for many years.<br />This book seems to be Edgar Degas life through his paintings. Here, we see everything about him and we discover how unique and interesting he was. He never married, there was never any evidence that he fell in love, and although many accused him of voyeurism and presenting women as objects, this is not true. He loved women and respected them and treated them not only as works of great art but examples of people in motion. Later on, his subjects were prostitutes (albeit veiled by the guise of elegant high-class women in cafes), nightclub singers, and &quot;bathers&quot; as they fussed over their bodies and hair or other bedroom objects. Edgar Degas was incredibly gifted and a fine pro-feminist painter, despite what others might think.<br />To sum up everything he stood for, Degas himself said his art was  intended to give &quot;truth an illusion of madness&quot;. He was a true artist in the very sense of the word. No artist of the 19th century, in France, could compare to his dedication and his intelligence. Viva Edgar Degas! His paintings, originals, are still on display in the Louvre and in the Musee D'Orsay in Paris. A trip there is a pilgrimage to ballet lovers and fans of Degas paintings.	2003-04-26
US	33954650	R8CQOJXTDBYYY	006026425X	825132395	Farmer Boy (Little House)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Touching Prairie Novel By Laura Ingalls Wilder	Laura Ingalls Wilder was the writer of the famous \\"Little House On The Prairie\\" series. She was married to Almanzo, whose boyhood Laura wrote about in this poignant and touching novel \\"Farmer Boy\\". Apparently, Laura must have consulted with her husband and he must have regailed her with the anecdotes and rich memories of farm life in 19th century New York. The story of Almanzo is just as moving and engrossing as the Laura stories of Little House on the prairie. He is a sensitive boy, a hard worker, full of good family values and humanitarian spirit.<br />Far from boring, the description of the farm and Almanzo's family life is very engaging. He talks of his friendly and warm relationship with his parents, his sister and the older brother he admired- Royal. Almanzo takes his farm chores with a happy and proud spirit, not minding all the sheep shearing, the cow milking and the taming of two colts he becomes very attached to. The harvest, country festivities and even their annual Fourth of July trip to New York City is very realistic, interesting, and touching. This could have well been a movie, or at least a spin off of the hit series \\"Little House on the Prairie\\", which dealt with  Laura's childhood in the Mid-Western plains.<br />I read farmer boy as a very young girl, I must have been nine or ten, and it touched me as no novel other than E. B. White's \\"Charlotte's Webb\\" moved me. These novels are timeless classic, and because of their fine literary merit, they are not merely children's stories, they rise above to the level of great reading material for adults. I recommend this novel to any pre-adolescent who has a fondness for Laura Ingalls' style of writing and, like Almanzo, who sacrificed even a job in the city, a love for the simple joys of nature and the farm.	2003-04-05
US	33954650	R394175WZYOW9F	0394712439	863473949	Remembrance of Things Past Volumes 1-3 Box Set	Books	5	7	16	N	N	Monumental French Masterpiece	If you are like me and you like all things French, Marcel Proust's \\"Remembrance Of Things Past\\" is the zenith of French literature. Proust wrote about the relationship between characters and their experiences with memory. The entire novel is itself written memories, linked together by precise narrative and lush detail. Marcel Proust worked on this monumental epic in the late 19th century, and finished the work in the early 1920's. Think of all the events that shaped the emerging twentieth century. The Edwardian Era in England was ending, in France the Belle Epoque was ending, and World War I destroyed much of Europe.  Proust wrote about the Belle Epoque, the decadent society and its morals, its stuffy and fastidious etiquette, its innocence and its corruption. Like those long novels we used to hate in English class \\"War and Peace\\" and anything by Dostovyesky, \\"Remembrance\\" is a challenging, overdone work of historid fiction. It's length, however, is worth reading because of its great themes.<br />Swann is of course, Marcel Proust himself. He is portrayed here as a disabled man (he has very little respect from French society because he is an imsomniac and slow), but he goes through adventures in reality. Walking the streets of Paris at night, he encounters upon a mysterious, self-absorbed and fascinating courtesan named Odette. She becomes his muse, his true love, eventhough Odette is a free woman without any desire for the deeper bonds of love. The descriptions of France, both its ambiance in Paris and in the countryside of Provence, is very exceptional. The book is a time capsule.<br />Generations from now, French novels will continue to be part of our tradition. It is something that never really goes away. If you think about it, the  influence of French Impressionism and writers writing about epic events still hold strong today. They fuel romance novelists, historic fiction writers, period pieces or costume dramas in the movies, and even musicals. Moulin Rouge hasdefinately the elements of a cliche 19th century melodrama. Remembrance Of Things Past is the greatest work of French literature, right up there with Gone With The Wind for Americans.	2003-04-05
US	33954650	R2NMCZ43FI3X6R	0140061282	101662800	Nana	Books	5	63	65	N	N	A Lesser Known Masterpiece But Must Be Acknowledged	Emile Zola is credited to have written the first \\"modern\\" French novels, that is to say, novels about contemporary subject matter and society, written in a natural style, which is why he is called a Naturalist writer. He was a very observant man, with an eye for detail and realistic dialogue and scenarios. He was a friend of the Impressionist artist Edgar Degas, who himself was considered to be a modern artist for his photographic style of paintings. Emile Zola's greatest novel has got to be Nana.<br />Far from the sugary and innocent Gigi story by Gabrielle Colette which would come later, Nana takes place as the French Second Empire comes to a close. From 1852 to 1870, France became a capitalistic Gilded Age, a time in which men and women would stop at nothing to make it into high society. The decadence of the period is captured, as well as the poverty and decaying morals. It would not be long before Emperor Louis Napoleon III lost the Franco Prussian War (1870-1871) and the empire collapsed. Nana is the daughter of a poor laundress- a washer woman from the country. She becomes a courtesan, a high class prostitute with many wealthy and powerful clients. These include financiers and even a count. Nana has an influence over all the men she becomes involved with, and they are smitten by her, offering her homes and material benefits from her ... favors. In the end, Nana becomes a symbol for the ... society of Emile Zola's time. This novel is a good read for fans of Zola's Naturalistic style and should be read prior to his \\"The Debacle\\" which deals with the Franco Prussian War.<br />Nana became the subject for a Manet painting. The book and the painting shocked the stuffy Salon society of Paris, especially because Nana is so blatant in her ...feminine powers over men. But the novel is excellent, a masterpiece of French literature, a critique on the ridiculous level of poverty at the time. Mothers were willing to sell their daughters into prostitution. Nana, however much a hold she has over the men, cannot get the one thing she truly wants- a place in decent French society. She was always seen as a courtesan with no real ladylike qualities. They were wrong. Nana is a great character, and Emile Zola takes us to that time with such precison and power that we are as if in a time machine transported to those French streets and to those brothel bedrooms. He writes without any hold bars. His novels should be made into films.  I suggest this reading material for any fan of French writers. If you like Honore De Balzac, Gustav Flaubert and the time period of the Second French Empire, this is your book.a hold she has over the men, cannot get the one thing she truly wants- a place in decent French society. She was always seen as a courtesan with no real ladylike qualities. They were wrong. Nana is a great character, and Emile Zola takes us to that time with such precison and power that we are as if in a time machine transported to those French streets and to those brothel bedrooms. He writes without any hold bars. His novels should be made into films.  I suggest this reading material for any fan of French writers. If you like Honore De Balzac, Gustav Flaubert and the time period of the Second French Empire, this is your book.	2003-04-05
US	33954650	R1PNPX7UE7TM38	0553609416	444133547	Anne of Green Gables, Complete 8-Book Box Set: Anne of Green Gables; Anne of the Island; Anne of Avonlea; Anne of Windy Poplar; Anne's House of ... Ingleside; Rainbow Valley; Rilla of Ingleside	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A Timeless Classic And Great Reading For Women	Lucy Maud Montgomery was a turn of the century Edwardian novelist from Canada- to be specific, from Prince Edward Island. It is Prince Edward Island that became the setting for Lucy's greatest work of fiction- Anne Of Green Gables. Lucy has written that Anne is an extension of herself and an embodiment of the independent, \\"new\\" woman of the emerging 20th century. Anne is a young orphan girl, \\"cursed\\" with red hair and a talkative vocal chords. She is blessed with an imagination and with winning, warm personality. Matthew and Marilla Cuthbert, getting along in years, need help in the farm of Green Gables, and decide to get a boy from a local orphanage.<br />They end up with Anne, but they get a better deal with her. Eventually, she wins their hearts and becomes a recognizable and loved member of their community. Anne has a difficult time in school, although she is very intelligent and learns quickly, Anne has enmity with Gilbert Blythe, a rambunctious young man who teases her. The adventures and pranks that Anne gets into are memorable- from her daring walk on a roof to pretending to be the  Lady of Shallott of Arthurian romance. All these events occur in the first book of the series.<br />The rest follows the course of Anne's career as an English teacher. She makes special connections with her students, especially with the young girls, and makes a great personal teacher to a wealthy family's daughter. In Avonlea, Anne falls in love with a distinguished, older man but their relationship becomes only a friendship. Anne returns to her beloved home of Green Gables and writes a novel about a collection of short stories from the small town. Anne marries Gilbert Blythe, the young man whom she had troubles with initially but who forged a friendship that blossomed into love.<br />The series is a very inspirational work of historic fiction, portraying a young woman, not as naive, but as headstrong, independent and remarkably resourceful. Anne's spirit defies convention and norms of women's roles in that Edwardian society. She is a unique woman, with a great and humanitarian heart. She is a great role model for girls and women today. She is, in my opinion, inside every woman. Anne's legacy continues, and it is now a great DVD series, directed by Kevin Sullivan and starring Megan Follows, who fits the character perfectly. That was made in 1986 and appeared on Disney channel and PBS several times.orms of women's roles in that Edwardian society. She is a unique woman, with a great and humanitarian heart. She is a great role model for girls and women today. She is, in my opinion, inside every woman. Anne's legacy continues, and it is now a great DVD series, directed by Kevin Sullivan and starring Megan Follows, who fits the character perfectly. That was made in 1986 and appeared on Disney channel and PBS several times.	2003-04-03
US	33954650	R1B3LA1EA5U5F4	0451525264	996904481	Les Miserables	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Classic French Literature Restored	This new unabridged version of the 1862 Victorian masterpiece by Victor Hugo is considerably long, but worth the read. Finally, the work is restored to its original magnitude. Victor Hugo was exiled from France at the time he wrote this book, and in some way, he must have felt very much like the novel's hero, Jean Valjean, treated unfairly by society as an outcast, although he is a feeling, caring and compassionate human being. Les Miserables (French for \\"the miserable ones\\"), is a heartaching, humanistic tale of love, redemption and raw human emotion.<br />Jean Valjean is a classic hero of French literature, well-rounded, realistic and a character we suffer with and sympathize with. Imprisoned for stealing a loaf of bread, he escapes and decides to steal again. He is taken into the house of a noble-hearted Bishop, who will ultimately transform him into a much better man. Jean Valjean attempts hurting the Bishop after stealing his candlesticks, but the Bishop's transcendent love and mercy makes Jean Valjean regret his base ways. A changed man, Valjean becomes an outstanding role model in the community and even major of a small town. No one knows of his past as a criminal except for-<br />Javert. The cruel prison guard who makes it a personal obscession to track down the escaped Valjean and bring him back to jail. Javert is a product of a society in France at the time that was strict, unmerciful and inhuman. Javer must have been drawn from some of Victor Hugo's own personal encounters with the law. Jean Valjean makes a promise to the dying prostitute Fantine, that he would care for and raise her daughter Cosette. He does a great job at being a father, although he shelters and protects her from the outside world, although Valjean's reasons are justified as he is himself trying to avoid being caught by the authorities.<br />Cosette falls in love with Marius Pontmercy, an upper class student who is portrayed as a poetic, romantic man. Nevertheless, at the wake of the July Revolution, Marius takes up arms to fight for a cause. Earlier in the novel, Cosette was taken in by the Thenardiers, a greedy, money-loving family who operate an inn. This is Hugo's depiction of French society at the time, how desperate people were for money that they were willing to sell even their own children to a life of labor or even prostitution. Eponine is self-sacrificing, eventhough her love for Marius is unrequited. In the novel, it is the women who are mostly virtuous and a woman, Fantine the prostitute, who brings a kind of redemption to Jean Valjean.<br />The ending is bittersweet, both tragic and happy. Jean Valjean dies, but Cosette and Marius are married. The novel is poignant, timeless and a literary trip worth taking. Every reader of the classics and high school or college level student should read this work. It has been the inspiration for films and even a successful Broadway musical, which is how most people get into the novel. It should be the other way around. Read the novel first. A Broadway musical is magic, but a novel is even greater because it touches you with a music few people can hear. Incidentally, the cover to this book is the poster for the musical.	2003-03-30
US	33954650	R2P6C6NDP6ZN3R	014044615X	543411005	The Count of Monte Cristo (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A Masterpiece, A French Classic Thriller	Alexander Dumas was an early 19th century writer who would be considered a writer of suspense novels or thrillers today. He wrote in the Romantic style of the day, but he wrote adventure novels that became popular bestsellers. The escape into the past, especially the reign of Louis XIV, or the Napoleonic Wars, was fictionalized and romanticized. One can imagine the mulatto French writer, mind off into a world of adventure and a quill pen writing endlessly as he burned the midnight oil. Escapist literature, it seemed, was well received in France. His novels enabled Dumas to live an extravagant lifestyle which resulted in his demise. He died penniless because he had spent so much of his money on women, alcohol, card games and pursuits of pleasure.<br />Dumas most recognized work is The Three Musketeers but &quot;The Count Of Monte Cristo&quot; is his best work. It is his most well written, his most expressive, psychological and deepest work of fiction. It is not just a revenge tale. Ultimately, it sends a message against taking revenge and living a life of virtue. The hero, Edmond Dantes, is a young man in the French navy, who has jealous enemies. He is accused of aiding Napoleon's escape from his island exile, and sentenced to life imprisonment in a gruesome island prison (like a French Alcatraz). His fiancee, Mercedes, is left alone to grieve his terrible misfortune. During his imprisonment, Dantes befriends an old man who inspires hope in him and moreover, shows him a map of treasure worth thousands. Dantes escapes the prison and finds the treasure, becoming a powerful and wealthy Count.<br />Finally, Dantes, in his guise as the Count of Monte Cristo, extracts revenge on his enemies, especially when he finds out Mercedes has married his worst enemy and birthed a son. The last parts show Dante at his most inhuman, as his revenge is manifested, he realizes he is losing his humanity, and even Mercedes no longer sees the good man she once saw. Mercedes and Dantes do not end up happily ever after, nor married, as films often portray. Their tragic parting is a reminder to Dantes of his flaw of revenge. The novel is poignant, well written, a classic sure to enthrall French literature fans as well as fans who love to curl up with a great book of meaningful adventure.	2003-03-30
US	33954650	R38MCP6BAEDY1Z	0521313252	141150019	Tolstoy: Anna Karenina (Landmarks of World Literature)	Books	5	3	7	N	N	Tolstoy's Russian Tragedy Strikes A Modern Chord	&quot;Every happy family is alike, but every unhappy family is unhappy in their own way&quot;. So begins a Russian work of fiction that has been a classic and reminder of human experience. Leo Tolstoy wrote poignant, classic masterpieces of Russian ouevre. Anna Karenina was drawn form Tolstoy's own personal experiences with love and he comments not only on the society of his age, but on the quality of human emotion, suffering and frailty. Anna Karenina is not his best work, &quot;War and Peace&quot; is. But Anna strikes a modern chord and is exceptional.<br />Anthony Thorlby's version is still Tolstoy's, but he adds commentary that is suited for our modern social structure. Anna Karenina is herself a symbol of repressed womanhood, a product of her male-dominated society, a modern woman at heart, ahead of her time. She is married to a wealthy and influential man, but loves the dashing, handsome officer Lensky. She engages in adultery and even has his child. The tempestuous love affair is wrecked with guilt, pain, torture and exquisite tragedy. In contrast, there is the innocent, loving and simplistic romance between Kitty and her lover (who is actually a parody of Tolstoy).<br />Set in Imperial 19th century Russia, around the time of the Crimean War, the novel takes us to that society, becoming Westernized, full of rich culture but decaying in morals and crumbling from its center due to the fact that humans are fallible, that we cannot be conditioned to do other than our natural selves. Anna Karenina, as we all know from our college days, killed herself under a train, ending the pain that had been brewing as a romantic storm since she first met her destiny with Lensky. The moving tale is worth reading and recognizing as a masterpiece of Russian literature.	2003-03-30
US	33954650	R2A20F6P0DUVIY	1931412944	894030846	Realm of the Ring Lords	Books	5	28	33	N	N	Behind The Fantasy: The Truth About Fiction	Laurence Gardner completes his &quot;Holy Grail&quot; trilogy (Bloodline Of The Holy Grail, Genesis Of Thee Grail Kings) with this book, &quot;Realm of the Ring Lords&quot;. The book is once again full of a plethora of information, as well as lush illustrations. Laurence Gardner may write like a mystic novelist, but his keen perception of words (he is as much an etymologist as he is a historian) make the fiction very truthful. After all, myth has some basis on true facts. In &quot;Realm of the Ring Lords&quot;, Gardner takes an inside look on the mystic origins of &quot;ring&quot; legends and how they relate to the Holy Grail. Garder has proposed that the Holy Grail, a feminine symbol, represents the bloodline of Jesus and his union with Mary Magdalene. In &quot;Genesis Of The Grail Kings&quot;, he further explores the personages of Abraham and Moses. Time after time, in true Kabbala tradition, Gardner elevates the man/woman relationship and the procreational power, especially of prominent figures.<br />In fairy tales, such as Sleeping Beauty or Rapunzel, there is always a helpless maiden, a woman frustrated because she has no male consort- Sleeping Beauty was cursed with a sleeping spell and Rapunzel was kept a prisoner in a tower, only to be saved by a handsome prince. This, Gardner insists, is only another manifestation of the Grail legends, of the inevitable union of man and woman for dynastic intentions, such as those dating back to old Sumerian civilizations. The same applies to the ring lore. Rings, symbols of eternity and perpetual bloodline. The rings of power have been the source of inspiration for J.R.R. Tolkien's &quot;Lord of the Rings&quot; and the Wagner opera &quot;Ring of the Nibelung&quot; which he had himself taken from the Norse sagas.<br />Gardner further explores the great cycle of legends revolving around King Arthur, the Round Table and the Knights Of The Holy Grail. King Arthur, without a question, is a parody of Jesus, a triumphant Christian king who will return once again in dark days to save people, a wounded king during &quot;the wasteland&quot; who can only be saved and healed by the life-giving Holy Grail. Arthur's purity was never a question in the old legends. Lancelot and his carnal affair with Guenevere, a violation of the balance between Arthur and Guenevere's marriage and the stability of the Round Table (which both coexisted in a mystic bond), made the ideal of Camelot become merely an ideal, and less a reality.<br />A great book, with deep insight on mythology and the meaning of legends. Laurence Gardner concludes his trilogy with a very thought-provoking book. Eventhough one cannot believe every thing, per letter about anything, one must always have in mind that in fiction, there is always some element of truth.	2003-03-02
US	33954650	RO4QEOQ4Y458R	0316284955	613460974	White Oleander (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	1	3	N	N	A Masterpiece Composed Of Tragic And Haunting Beauty	I had the privelege of meeting the author, Janet Fitch, casually, accidentally during a rummage sale. This was years ago, before she had written the novel \\"White Oleander\\" and before the film was released. She is a woman with keen perception of human nature, with brilliant intellect and literary knowledge. Her first novel is a masterpiece composed of tragic and haunting beauty. The novel follows the life of the artistic, emotional Astrid, the daughter of a single mother, Ingrid, who is a sensational character. Ingrid claims descent from Vikings, some say an excuse for her violent and erratic behavior. Ingrid extracted revenge on an unfaithful boyfriend, Barry, through his murder with poison oleander. Ingrid is put in prison, but continues to communicate with her daughter through short visitations and letters.<br />Astrid's journey is a classic coming-of-age story, retold in a highly realistic, modern fashion. Astrid is taken from foster home to foster home, each woman who cares for her a strong survivor in her own right (i.e. the prostitute). Astrid learns how to survive, but her intensity subsides with the nurturing and loving relationships she develops with all of these \\"foster\\" mothers. The book is well written, with engrossing imagery, with fatalism, with provoking prose. Janet Fitch is a truly gifted writer and we hope to see more of her works in the future.	2003-03-02
US	33954650	R3UUK1Y4DR31XH	1888952911	862139432	Addams Chronicles: An Altogether Ooky Look at the Addams Family	Books	5	10	16	N	N	Behind The Laughs: A Look Inside The Addams Family	In the mid sixties (1964-1966), there was a tv show about an unusual family that was a far different bunch than \\"The Brady Bunch\\", than the soap-clean \\"Leave It To Beaver\\" and \\"Donna Reed\\" shows. Although genuinely witty and humorous, it was the Addams Family that first marked the foundation for comic disfunctional families that would come later. The Addams Family were the original Osbournes. Their eccentric personalities, their abnormal tastes and behavior, which they were very comfortable with, seemed strange to \\"outsiders\\" with the more conventional and normal 60's home life. Although I did not grow up watching \\"The Addams Family\\" or \\"The Munsters\\", it is refreshing to look back at the success of this show. Cox and John Astin (who played Gomez) provide us with colorful photos and illustrations, as well as commentary by the cast, and chronicles the Addams, and the behind the scenes magic.<br />John Astin portrayed Gomez Addams, the father and head of the household. John Astin had already appeared in films in the fifties, including Westside Story, and in the show, provided much of the wit and humor. Gomez was a wealthy lawyer, although dressed in a gangster suite, smoked cigars frequently and indulged in all kinds of oddball activities: he wrecked his electric toy trains, he practiced Zen Yoga standing on his head, he swung on a chandelier, he fenced with Morticia and also danced the tango. He would always become aroused when Morticia spoke a single word of French (and ocassionally a Yiddish word). <br />Morticia Addams was played by 50's film actress Carolyn Jones, who was ending her marriage to Aaron Spelling during the syndication of the show. Morticia was mysterious, beautiful, vibrant and intellectual. She painted abstract art, dressed in that tight-fitting long, ... black dress, and was quite proud (her nuances included crossing her arms in an Indian-style fashion and speaking with firm authority). She raised two children, Pugsley and Wednesday (Ken Weatherwax and Lisa Loring), who were taught to be secure in their strangeness- Pugsley playe with various dangerous wildlife and Wednesday had the comic lines \\"It's so nice and gloomy\\" and was attached to a headless Marie Antoinette doll.<br />Lurch, the zombie-like, seven feet something butler, was portrayed by Ted Cassidy. He was striking, Frankenstein-like and had a deep, \\"throat\\" voice (You rang ?) and would always intimidate house guests. Although seemingly devoid of personality, Lurch had his moments- i.e. the episode in which he becomes the head of the household to impress his visiting mother, and the episode in which he becomes a recording artist and sings like a Beatles rock star. Uncle Fester was played by Jackie Coogan. Fester was a lonely, lovestruck balding man with a taste for pain (he would sleep in a bed of needles) and could light up a light bulb in his mouth. Others in the family were Thing, a severed hand that was alwayst \\"at hand\\" for small favors- answering the phone, getting the mail, opening up a bottle of champagne, etc. And then there was Cousin Itt, a hairy, shapeless creature with an incomprehensible language and funny high voice.<br />The Addams was a fun show to watch, keeping a generation of audiences full of laughter, perhaps making people forget the troubles that the 60's brought. It would still be fun to watch today- recently, a \\"New Addams\\" family show was given for a small run on cable tv and of course, the old series inspired the movies starring Raul Julia, Angelica Houston and Christina Ricci.	2003-02-28
US	33954650	RB63WJ240FRMJ	038542017X	507593319	Like Water for Chocolate: A Novel in Monthly Installments with Recipes, Romances, and Home Remedies	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Experience A Literary, Romantic Spanish Feast	Laura Esquivel's novel &quot;Like Water For Chocolate&quot; was delicious.  It is meant to be read, as if in a book club, in monthly installments as she offers recipes for home-cooked meals in old Spanish style, as well as home remedies. Esquivel has written a jewel of a novel. It is deeply aesthetic, romantic, melancholic, well written, poetic. Esquivel's novel is essentially about the pleasure and pain of love, the exquisite feast of blissful emotions when two people are as much in love as Pedro and Tita. But there is also the pain of parting, the unfulfillable romance that is forced to be kept a secret due to the tightly constructed society rules and expectations. In a sense, it is very European in that respect, at times similar to something that Henry James would have written and set in England or France and not a turn of the century Mexican town.<br />Tita De La Graza comes from a distinguished and well-known family, of a widowed mother who cherishes her daughters. Since Tita is the youngest, she must accept her tragic fate and not marry in order to take care of her aging mother. Rosaura, the eldest daughter, joyfully accepts Pedro's proposal of marriage. But Pedro hides a secret. He is in love with Tita. A hopeless  and forbidden romance ensues. But it is not long before Tita's mother discovers the love affair. Scandal erupts and in the midst of all the romantic storm, Tita and Pedro declare their undying love and care less about the uptight Spanish Catholic society surrounding them.<br />As good romantic fiction as it is a recipe book, Laura Esquivel is sure to delight readers of all backgrounds, not just Mexican, provided they are lovers of love, hopeless romantics and have an apetite for love. As always, the central symbol of love is chocolate, long favored as an aphrodisiac, and the comparison between falling in love and tasting good, rich food in a sumptuous feast. This book is a must have for readers of romance novels with literary strength. Look also for the 1992 film.	2003-02-27
US	33954650	RUKMJQIG4HM1B	0374527857	161023782	Gigi, Julie de Carneilha, and Chance Acquaintances: Three Short Novels	Books	5	41	44	N	N	Collected Stories By A French Master	Gabrielle Colette died in 1954. She is most famous for writing &quot;Gigi&quot; which became a Broadway musical and Oscar winning film. Gabrielle was a talented, gifted writer, with aesthetic skills and a charming perception of humans, particularily the society she grew up in early twentieth century France. A fascinating woman, she wrote mainly short stories, dealing with women coming of age, older women making new decisions, relationships with intensity, and all of her characters have memorable nuances. She may have drawn from personal experience. Colette was clearly a woman with deep understanding of the nature of love and the course of human emotions.<br />Gigi is the story of a young woman brought up in a decadent, materialistic society. Her aunts have raised her to become a mistress, a courtesan for the wealthy. Gaston falls for Gigi, and  attempts to make her his mistress. But Gigi refuses to be a part of the pretentious society in Paris, wanting an honest and open relationship based on love. In the end, she is granted this for remaining true to herself. Julie de Carneilha and Chance Encounters are striking tales of women in love, beautifully written and set in the opulence of Paris. Colette is a cosmopolitan writer, one can almost see her as she writes with a bottle of champagne on her writing desk, a view of the Eiffel tower from her window and a vivid imagination that takes flight.	2003-02-27
US	33954650	R19Z0RUE4WGHWX	0312305060	785940945	The Hours	Books	5	9	13	N	N	An Excellent Novel About The Struggles Of Life	I will try not to sound prejudiced. Michael Cunningham wrote a novel which seems as if forged by a woman's mind. Reading the emotional heartache and struggle, one would think a woman wrote this book. But Michael Cunningham is superb, psychological, profound. He definately knows Virgina Woolf, who had a life full of emotional crisis, who gave the literary world stream-of-conscious novels and beautiful writing. Virginia Woolf's verbage was always striking. In \\"The Hours\\" ( the title suggests the theme- the hours of our lives must be taken seriously, enjoyed, to really LIVE THEM), Clarissa Vaughn (Meryl Streep in the movie) is a strong, independent 50 plus woman who is married to an author dying of AIDS who also happens to have some mental disorders. She is preparing to throw a party for his honor. At the same time, we look back at 1950's suburbia where a pregnant Laura Brown and her son prepare a cake for her husban'ds  birthday. Virginia Woolf, in the English countryside, is brainstorming to write her short story, \\"Mrs. Dalloway\\".<br />For those who have read Virginia Woolf and in particular, \\"Mrs. Dalloway\\" the series of events that occur in \\"The Hours\\" should strike a familiar bell. Mrs. Dalloway reappears in the lives of Laura Brown, specifically, but one can make the argument that Clarissa Vaugn is also Mrs. Dalloway's reincarnation. The tragic parts express human suffering, particularily the sadness of loss, the poignancy of living with a terminal illness, the fleeting sense of living. The lives of the characters are complex, vivid and remarkably true to life. Cunningham will be a noteworthy writer on my list. Some of the things are very dark, but poignant. The contemplation of death and life, transience, loss and the madness and despair at human nature is best expressed with Virginia Woolf's eccentric, melancholic persona. Two suicides in the book. Virginia Woolf said it best, \\"To look life in the face- to love it. And then to put it away.\\"	2003-02-25
US	33954650	R2SUCJ1J0TCQVE	0694524190	850713424	Edgar Allan Poe Audio Collection	Books	5	31	32	N	N	Audio Antique Treasure: Edgar Allan Poe Comes To Life	The reviewers for this audio box set of Edgar Allan Poe's most famous works of fiction are absolutely right. There is perfection in this product. The talented Vincent Price and Basil Rathborne lend their voices to the narration of the classic tales of horror and suspense. This is an antique. It is valuable and very reminiscent of the old World War II days of radio-plays sponsored by soap companies. This same style was responsible for the popularity of H.G. Well's \\"War of the Worlds\\". When Orson Welles narrated the story, his voice and the drama of the radio was so convincing, people actually believed flying saucers were invading American cities. The power of radio was very strong in the time before television media. At any rate, my point is that this same magnetism is felt in the drama that Vincent Price and Basil Rathborne provide to the original master of horror pre-Stephen King, Edgar Allan Poe.<br />Poe was responsible for creating the detective story, some would say the short story, American Gothic, macabre tales that gripped readers with haunting melancholia, dread and superstition. It was as if he took drugs and hallucinated and wrote down what he saw. Among his most famous tales, of which Vincent Price and Basil Rathborne perfectly read with powerful narration are \\"The Cask Of Amontillado\\", \\"The Fall of the House of Usher\\", \\"The Mask Of The Red Death,\\" \\"The Pit and the Pendulum\\", \\"The Tell-Tale Heart\\" and  the \\"Black Cat\\". It is unfortunate that they did'nt include selections from \\"Tales From The Rue Morgue\\". Among the poems that are read and made Poe quite a literati are \\"The Raven\\" and \\"Annabel Lee\\".<br />With all the well-constructed suspense and literary Gothic, poetic romanticism, the tales of Edgar Allan Poe are suddenly alive and fresh in the old radio style. This is truly a great gift for fans of Gothic storytelling, and most specifically, for fans of Edgar Allan Poe. Not only is a great gift, a great audio treasure, but a perfect compliment to homework. Your high-school age son or daughter will benefit immensely from hearing these classic short stories, narrated dramatically by these old \\"mystery\\" movie actors from the 50's, a more pleasurable, but nonetheless educational experience.ork. Your high-school age son or daughter will benefit immensely from hearing these classic short stories, narrated dramatically by these old \\"mystery\\" movie actors from the 50's, a more pleasurable, but nonetheless educational experience.	2003-02-19
US	33954650	R7YA5NOVOLBHW	0671722859	43217624	Romeo and Juliet	Books	5	3	4	N	N	The Romantic Masterpiece For Valentines Day	Looking for a nice Valentine's Day gift ? Look no further than the bookstores that contain this New Folgers Library edition of Shakespeare's romantic tragedy, his most famous work, Romeo and Juliet. Romeo and Juliet is also one of Shakespeare's most human stories, involving bitter rivalry and societal roles that were common in the Renaissance. Romeo and Juliet's origins are obscure, although there are speculations that it was a true account in early Renaissance history. Romeo, of the Montague family, falls in love with Juliet, of the Capulets. The Montagues and Capulets have long been rivals, a feud has made enemies of them for some unknown and unexplained reason. Romeo and Juliet defy the opposition from their families in a taboo, forbidden love. The most famous scene, and certainly the most romantic, is the Balcony scene. Romeo has discovered Juliet's balcony and declares his undying love for her. It may seem like an infatuation, a passing obscession, and we can always make the argument that they are young, after all. But the poetic imagery (Romeo compares Juliet to the sun), the inspirational zeal that Romeo has for Juliet, who reciprocates, eventhough she is much more rational than he is. They are married in secret but the tragedy kicks in after Romeo has slain Tybalt in a duel.<br />Romeo is banished from Verona. Juliet is engaged to marry the well-to-do and powerful Paris. In despair, Juliet drinks poison which makes her sleep and appear dead for a long time. Her family put her body inside the ancestral tomb. When Romeo returns to Verona and learns that Juliet is &quot;dead&quot;, he rushes into the tomb and takes his own life with fatal poison. Juliet, waking from her sleep, discovers Romeo is dead and stabs herself. When the feuding Capulets and Montagues discover that the lovers have committed suicide because they were forbidden due to their enmity, they make peace.<br />The classic story can be applied to many people who feel love, and must overcome obstacles and oppositon. Although it is deeply tragic, it is a necessary tragedy for prejudice and hatred to be vanquished. This version, from the Folgers group, is the best. It provides commentary on Shakespeare and his time, the making of this play and contains the best translation of antiquated phrases that give so many modern readers a hard time. Romeo and Juliet is the most perfect Valentine's Day gift for those who appreciate the glorifed romances of the past.les and oppositon. Although it is deeply tragic, it is a necessary tragedy for prejudice and hatred to be vanquished. This version, from the Folgers group, is the best. It provides commentary on Shakespeare and his time, the making of this play and contains the best translation of antiquated phrases that give so many modern readers a hard time. Romeo and Juliet is the most perfect Valentine's Day gift for those who appreciate the glorifed romances of the past.	2003-02-14
US	33954650	R1NKPRVYCJFLBB	1587886103	916048954	The Scarlet Letter (Classic Collection)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	The Poignant Romantic Classic Is An Audio Treasure	For those who enjoy audio books, and there are many of us (especially working mothers who are always on the go- taking our children to school, or a playdate, or commuting to our yoga or aerobics classes), this is an impressive buy. The Scarlet Letter, written by Nathaniel Hawthorne, whose books explore the themes of guilt, is a striking romantic tragedy set in Puritan New England. The characters are well developed, each tinged with deep human emotion and conflict. The societal beliefs and superstitions of the people at the time provide Gothic elements. Again, one can make the argument that this is not only classic American literature, but Gothic romance.<br /> The Scarlet Letter revolves around Hester Prynne, a beautiful young early colonial woman who has recently ben married. Her husband has not yet arrived to the states from England (for some reason or other) and there is even rumors that he is dead. She loves the pastor of the community, Dimmesdale. Dimmesdale and Hester make love, committing the \\"sin\\" of adultery. When their relations are discovered through Hester's pregnancy with his child, the Puritan society they are part of are in an uproar. They immediately brand her as a sinner, an adultress and imprison her (she even gives birth in prison). As a reminder of her hell-bound deed, the elders sew a scarlet letter A (adultery) on her gown. She becomes a recluse, where she raises her daughter, Pearl, away from the people who have shunned them. Dimmesdale, is by far, the most troubled character. He is thoroughly immersed in guilt, and he must bear the hypocrisy of his crime. As a pastor, it is his duty to enligthen the people spiritually. He hides his sin, but punishes himself with physical torture each night, branding his own letter \\"A\\" with hot wax. The villain of the novel is not the Devil (who, contrary to the references made to the Devil, witches, etc) but the villainous Chillingworth, Hester Prynne's husband.<br />Chillingworth returns from England to discover that his wife has become an outcast for her adultery. Full of raging jealousy and the desire to extract revenge upon the transgressor, he makes it his sole mission to torture Dimmesdale and plunge him further into dark despair with guilt. He feigns a friendship with Dimmesdale, but he makes it possible to mentally punish him and to inflict him with emotional pain. This is the real sin, here, the violation of the human heart. Through Chillingworth's constant torture of Dimmesdale, in addition to what seems like heavenly signs of condemnation (a comet passes in the sky leaving the letter A), Dimmesdale becomes so full of pain and guilt, that he dies in Hester's arms, announcing that he has committed the sin of adultery with her. The classic tale is read well and the cover is very striking. This can also make a nice gift.	2003-02-13
US	33954650	R1VUTK0292E75P	1587886146	363093333	Wuthering Heights (The Classic Collection)	Books	5	7	12	N	N	The Gothic Romance Makes A Perfect Valentine Gift	Emily Bronte, one of the Bronte sisters, (the most famous being Charlotte, who wrote Jane Eyre) wrote a classic Gothic romance, chalk-full of the emotions and pathos that a tragic romance encompasses. As a literary work, it is well written and at paar with Charlotte Bronte's Jane Eyre. This audio book, narrated finely, with a delightful box cover, makes a striking Valentines day gift for women. The story is set in the lush, dark moors of northern England, and centers around a wealthy family and the doomed romance of Catherine and Heathcliff. Catherine comes from a well-to-do family, set in their ways, and all of her societal expectations are heavy on her shoulders. She falls in love with Heathcliff, a deep, spiritual, soulful love, but unfortunately one that could not be consummated. Heathcliff was taken into Catherine's family as an orphan. Heathcliff and Catherine's love, described in the most romantic of terms, is so strong that there is one scene in which Catherine calls out to him in despair, when she is married to another man for his status and convenient position as a powerful family friend, and Heathcliff is able to hear her from his distant stance.<br />The novel is Gothic, although there is no supernatural going-ons and the usual horror that can be associated with Gothic novels. It is a novel full of the dark despair and tragedy of two lovers who can not be together. The character of Heathcliff, in particular, cannot be considered heroic. He is brooding, he is dark, he vows revenge against those who have taken Catherine from him. Likewise, Catherine cannot fulfill the profile of an innocent, hopelessly romantic girl. She is instead, a vain, egotistical and bourgeois materialist, marrying a man for his money and not for his love. But although the immediate situation that occurs with Heathcliff and Catherine, Heathcliff's subsequent vendetta and extraction of revenge are the darkest aspects, the promising and more idealistic love transpires between their children (eventhough they are children of other parents). With stunning narration and a classic feel to the whole thing, this makes a perfect gift on the day that celebrates romance and true love- Valentine's Day.ldren (eventhough they are children of other parents). With stunning narration and a classic feel to the whole thing, this makes a perfect gift on the day that celebrates romance and true love- Valentine's Day.	2003-02-13
US	33954650	R2ZMOPNALI7QW5	0716740044	115142204	The Myth of Monogamy: Fidelity and Infidelity in Animals and People	Books	5	64	77	N	N	The Truth Is Revealed, But Choice Is Always Ours	What I mean by \\"Truth is revealed, the choice is ours\\", is the theme of this review. It is also the message in the book, although many readers have misinterpreted the entire theme, believing the co-authors, David P. Barash and Judith E. Lipton, are simply feeding us hard reality and crushing dreams of blissful and faithful marriage. David and Judith are experienced, older scientists, specializing in the observation of birds and apes, with a profound understanding of logic, human emotions, sociobiology and biology in general. They both hold high degrees- Judith has an M.D. and David holds a Ph.D. It is noteworthy, also, that they are a happily married couple and have been so for many years. Their real message and theme from this outstanding book is that although by nature, humans are generally not faithful to their long-term mate (spouse, boyfriend, girlfriend), we have evolved so much that we can chose to be faithful and monogamous to our partner and truly be satisfied, fulfilled and completely happy. Monogamy is not extinct, it is rare. Half of all marriages end in divorce. When a couple has been together for many years, it's world news. It is the greatest partnership, relationship, union, and the most peaceful, happiest and fullest feeling. But it is always the individual's choice. If a partner cannot remain faithful, we now have a reason and explanation for it.<br />The reason why so many find it difficult to be faithful to their partner for a long time, is biological. Originally, before an evolved society with its ground rules grew from primitive communism, the homo sapien men were polygamous, especially because genetically, nature demanded variety from their offspring. Incest, of course, was formerly practiced to keep a family bloodline, true even to the highest societies, royal dynasties of ancient Egypt, etc. There was a time when free will seemed to bother no one, and men had many wives, shared partners and even shared land. But eventually, power and property was established, much like class systems, and it came to be a violation when someone \\"outside\\" the group took one of the wives from another male. Feeling of jealousy and ownership were established and so, when religion began to take over people's consciousness, they labeled this \\"taking\\", \\"adultery\\". The biological needs of women are important in the scene, as well, in fact, perhaps the most important link. Women's sex cells contain life-giving ovum, enabling them to bear children, and because they are so few and rare in them, they are selective about their sexual/romantic/etc partners. They are far more choosy because it is going to reflect on the ensuing progeny, their children. Men's sperm is abundant and cheap, and they are less selective. It's all down to our biological make-up. This book is very casual about the whole matter and contains not only very scientifically accurate truth, but very genuine humor and witty lines, making reading this book very enjoyable.<br />This book is very insightful, and opened my eyes about sex, relationships and the many unbreakable \\"differences\\" between men and women, such as why do women like tall men ? Why are men so attracted to larger breasts, why are men far more visual and enjoy pornography and why do women act demure and modest in order to attract their mate before showcasing their wild sexual abandon ? These all contain biological reasons. But this does not mean that men are women are not equals, nor are we forever ruled by \\"animal instincts\\". We are more intelligent than the animals and have evolved so wonderfully, that we can now chose to be married for a long time with a single mate and live happily ever after.	2003-02-12
US	33954650	R26I4RTXPR7YEQ	1931412936	91577394	Genesis of the Grail Kings: The Explosive Story of Genetic Cloning and the Ancient Bloodline of Jesus	Books	5	24	28	N	N	An Enlightening Read, Not For The Narrow-Minded	Laurence Gardner is a remarkable antiquarian, historian, theologian and etymologist as well as expert on ancient languages (Hebrew for example). Gardner has written a trilogy, each seperate in covering material, but unified in their relation to the Holy Grail as a symbol for the family bloodline of Jesus. For those who have read \\"Bloodline Of The Holy Grail\\", we are familiar with his theories on Jesus, his marriage to Mary Magdalene and his descendants becoming priests and European royalty. Like that book, Garnder discovered hidden meanings behind the text in the Gospels, taking the literal translation of the words in the text from their Jewish source and how they were applied at the time of their writng. He does this again with the first book in the Bible, Genesis.<br />Gardner explains how Genesis, which means \\"beginning, genetic origins- (\\"Gene- sis- Gene-tics\\") is about the evolution and progress of the Hebrew people, the unknown tradition of the Messiah and at last, the real faces behind the biblical characters of Adam and Eve, Abraham and Moses. Adam and Eve, quite contrary to the fundamentalist dogma, were not the first man and woman, but merely the first of their kind. They had greater thinking power, and they were ancestors to the early Jews. Abraham, of course, is portrayed as a wondering sheperd called to be the father of a great race. Gardner does not deter from this ancestral patriarch's importance, but provides a clear picture of who he really was. The same applies to Moses and his own link in the great chain. The talk of Star Fire and Phoenix, Philosopher's Stone may take on mystic, obscure and confusing forms, but I understand it to be simply more additions to the beliefs of earlier non-fundamentalists- such as the Gnostics, the Freemasons, the Templar Knights, each with a profound knowledge of worthy notice. <br />This book is outstanding. Lush illustrations, accurate history and rational criticism, as well as mystic, spiritual enlightenment. Gardner has fascinated me and grabbed my attention from the very beginning. Genesis is what you want to make of it. It is always good to open your mind and your heart to the happy possibilities.	2003-02-12
US	33954650	R13UAU5TUCD1PJ	1931412928	544319524	Bloodline of the Holy Grail: The Hidden Lineage of Jesus Revealed	Books	5	28	34	N	N	Historic, Epic And Insightful	Laurence Gardner is a highly educated historian, antiquarian, etymologist and a very well-rounded spiritualist. The core of his beliefs revolve around the Holy Grail and its links to the lineage of Jesus Christ. In his first of three books, he gives us a historic and letter-to-letter interpretation of the Gospels. The fundamentalist and Church-sponsored Christian, or perhaps even orthodox Jew, will not benefit from Gardner's information. These would more than likely deem this material blasphemy and heresy. Only the open-minded, enlightened individual who seeks truth in biblica sources and mystic writings will treasure his works.<br /> Gardner begins by writing a prologue in defense of democracy and a people-serving government, based on the Grail code of service. He further acknowledges that religion has been male-dominated for the most part and the Bible edited by imperialist Roman Catholics (later by fundamentalist Christians) so that the readers would not discover a very important truth: Jesus was not divine, but in fact a human Jewish priest who sought a new reform in traditional Judaism which would become Christianity.<br /> He was married to Mary Magdalene (of whom the Bible refers to as a prostitute or \\"sinner\\" but who is the only woman to be waiting by Jesus' tomb in a demonstration of wifely duty). He produced a lineage of priests and priestesses, Christian leaders who effectively worked to support the early churches in Imperial Rome. But Jesus' heirs came into conflict with the Catholic church, who supressed everything under dictatorial control of Renaissance art and through the misinterpretation of the original Hebrew words in the bible. I.E. Mary, Jesus' mother, the Virgin Mary, was called simply a virgin (Hebrew Almah) because she was sexually inexperienced and young, when she was espoused to Jesus' father Joseph. The \\"Holy Spirit\\" is another matter, the blessing by the \\"angel\\" Gabriel to have the infant Jesus was really the blessing of a priest. The book explains a lot of the misinterpretated words and phrases in the Gospels, which the Apostles wrote with full knowledge that the Roman empire was after such \\"New Age\\" thought. Christianity, at this time in history, which was polytheistic, was considered strange and \\"New Age\\".<br /> Many who have read this book do not want to believe that Jesus did not die on the cross as Gardner claims (Gardner claims Jesus was only wounded and instead of resurrected he was \\"healed\\" by his followers. He would die later, Jesus, says as he escaped opressors into India) But whether he lived or not, the lineage of Jesus did in fact thrive for some time and Gardner  hints at this through the barrage of hidden meanings in artwork tarot cards and the cycle of Arthurian legends. The Holy Grail, above all, is the unifying element. The Grail cup in essence, represents the womb, and the blood of Jesus represents his physical bloodline of heirs. But the spiritual and political sides of it represent Jesus' very desire for a united, peaceful, people-serving government. Jesus, in many ways, opened the doors for new spiritual thought into the West. This book is the first of three books by Gardner- a trilogy which further explores the fascinating \\"hidden\\" meanings of Bible books such as Genesis and their connections with the Messianic bloodline, as well as the subtle contexts in fairy tales and Wiccan themes. Again, this book is for the non-judgemental and open minded person. No one has all the answers, not even Gardner's large-scale information, but it's our right to seek the truth.	2003-02-02
US	33954650	R2EJQ73MP8NF4Q	0671722751	43217624	Macbeth (The New Folger Library)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	The Bard's Darkest Drama	William Shakespeare's tragedies are universal. We know that the tragedy will be chalk-full of blood, murder, vengeance, madness and human frailty. It is, in fact, the uncorrectable flaws of the hero that bring his death or demise. Usually, the hero's better nature is wickedly corrupted. That was the case in Hamlet, whose desire to avenge his father's death consumed him to the point of no return and ended disastrously in the deaths of nearly all the main characters. At the end of Richard III, all the characters are lying dead on the stage. In King Lear, the once wise, effective ruler goes insane through the manipulations of his younger family members. But there is something deeply dark and disturbing about Shakespeare's darkest drama- Macbeth. It is, without a question, Gothic drama. The supernatural mingles as if everyday occurence with the lives of the people, the weather is foul, the landscape is eerie and haunting, the castles are cold and the dungeons pitch-black. And then there are the three witches, who are always by a cauldron and worship the nocturnal goddess Hecate. It is these three witches who prophetize a crown on the head of Macbeth. Driven by the prophecy, and spurred on by the ambitious, egotistic and Machiavellian Lady Macbeth (Shakespeare's strongest female character), Macbeth murders the king Duncan and assumes the throne of Scotland. The roles of Macbeth and Lady Macbeth are tour de force performances for virtuosic actors. A wicked couple, a power-hungry couple, albeit a regal, intellectual pair, who can be taken into any form- Mafia lord and Mafia princess, for example, as in the case of a recent movie with a modern re-telling of Macbeth.<br />Nothing and no one intimidates Macbeth. He murders all who oppose him, including Banquo, who had been a close friend. But the witches predict doom, for Macbeth, there will be no heirs and his  authority over Scotland will come to an end. Slowly as the play progresses, we discover that Macbeth's time is running up. True to the classic stylings of Shakespeare tragedy, Lady Macbeth goes insane, sleepwalking at night and ranting about bloodstained hands. For Macbeth, the honor of being a king comes with a price for his murder. He sees Banquo's ghost at a dinner and breaks down in hysteria in front of his guests, he associates with three witches who broil \\"eye of newt and tongue of worm\\", and who conjure ghotsly images among them of a bloody child. Macbeth is Shakespeare's darkest drama, tinged with foreboding, mystery and Gothic suspense. But, nevertheless, it is full of great lines, among them the soliloquy of Macbeth, \\"Out, out, brief candle\\" in which he contemplates the brevity of human life, confronting his own mortality. Macbeth has been made into films, the most striking being Roman Polansky's horrific, gruesome, R-rated movie in which Lady Macbeth sleepwalks in the nude and the three witches are dried-up, grey-haired naked women, and Macbeth's head is devilishly beheaded and stuck at the end of a pole. But even more striking in the film is that at the end, the victor, Malcolm, who has defeated Macbeth, sees the witches for advise. This says something: the cycle of murder and violenc will begin again, which is what Macbeth's grim drama seems to be saying about powerhungry men who stop at nothing to get what they want.ing up. True to the classic stylings of Shakespeare tragedy, Lady Macbeth goes insane, sleepwalking at night and ranting about bloodstained hands. For Macbeth, the honor of being a king comes with a price for his murder. He sees Banquo's ghost at a dinner and breaks down in hysteria in front of his guests, he associates with three witches who broil \\"eye of newt and tongue of worm\\", and who conjure ghotsly images among them of a bloody child. Macbeth is Shakespeare's darkest drama, tinged with foreboding, mystery and Gothic suspense. But, nevertheless, it is full of great lines, among them the soliloquy of Macbeth, \\"Out, out, brief candle\\" in which he contemplates the brevity of human life, confronting his own mortality. Macbeth has been made into films, the most striking being Roman Polansky's horrific, gruesome, R-rated movie in which Lady Macbeth sleepwalks in the nude and the three witches are dried-up, grey-haired naked women, and Macbeth's head is devilishly beheaded and stuck at the end of a pole. But even more striking in the film is that at the end, the victor, Malcolm, who has defeated Macbeth, sees the witches for advise. This says something: the cycle of murder and violenc will begin again, which is what Macbeth's grim drama seems to be saying about powerhungry men who stop at nothing to get what they want.	2003-01-11
US	33954650	R2MBOSH6C59E51	0449005666	695742653	Ticket to the Opera: Discovering and Exploring 100 Famous Works, History, Lore, and Singers, with Recommended Recordings	Books	5	32	35	N	N	The Opera Bible: Become Opera-Enlightened	This book most profoundly influenced my knowledge of opera and its unique style. I do not exaggerate when I call it the Opera Bible.  It is not only a formal introduction to the magic sound world of opera, but a terrific source of the mechanics of the living art of acting and singing. As a music teacher and vocal coach, this book has become quite handy. Author Phil G. Goulding himself has no affiliation with the opera, he is not a vocal coach, he is not a professional opera singer, but has keenly observed the art and has acquired knowledge and variety of tastes. Goulding calls the newcomer and novice who wishes to get acquianted with opera as &quot;unwashed&quot;. The opera buff, connoisseur and opera tyrant is called &quot;washed&quot;. Thankfully, there is no decline in the world of opera. There have been many people who serve as spokespeople for the cause of opera and have managed to draw crowds of young audiences away from rock and contemporary pop for a while so that they can hear the sublime sounds of tenors and sopranos.<br />This book has it all. It offers a history of opera, a list of composers and their operas, the categories the operas themselves fall under, for example, individual repertoire- French lyric opera, Italian bel canto opera, Italian verisimo, German Singspiel, opera-comique, Russian opera, grand opera, etc. It provides profiles and biographies on famous singers past and present. He does'nt seem to miss a single one- tenors Enrico Caruso, Placido Domingo, Luciano Pavoratti, baritone Ezio Pinza, Samuel Ramey, dramatic sopranos Maria Callas, Shirley Verret, Montserrat Caballet, Birgit Nilsson, Kirsten Flagstad, Beverly Sills, Joan Sutherland, and so forth. He is detailed on the diverse vocal ranges for men and women. <br />Gould draws the reader with commentary on key moments of operas, providing us with their plot and the structure of the arias and ensembles. All the great names, which he calles warhorses, are here: Wagner's Ring of the Nibelung, Bizet's Carmen, Verdi's Aida, Puccini's La Boheme, I Pagliacci and Cavalleria Rusticana, and the lesser known operas, operettas by Offenbach and Suppe, and the Russian operas, such as Dvorak's Rusalka, magic operas by Rimsky-Korsakov. Along the way, he writes what famous tenors and sopranos have said about their experiences in the opera, among them comments by Placido Domingo, who cried during a performance in his hometown in Spain where he started obscurely as a Zarzuela singer, and Beverly Sills whose advise for the brave soprano taking on the role of Bellini's Norma is &quot;wear comfortable shoes.&quot; <br />The wit and humor Goulding mixes with effective criticism is very enjoyable. Ticket to the Opera is your ticket to a great new world, full of orchestra and voices, drama, passion, tragedy, comedy, laughter, sorrow, romance- everything that is human. I regard opera as the most human art form. For those who turn away from opera out of ignorance and fear, I strongly urge you to think twice. Opera is not just for the social elite, for &quot;opera snobs&quot;. It was meant to be enjoyed and appreciated by everyone. It is not boring, it is not stuffy. The opera is the window to the human condition and the human experience. It combines the greatest art forms- music, drama, singing and dancing. Opera can become addictive, so be forewarned. But once you begin your love affair with opera, you will keep many cherished memories. Along the way you will make many friends. To conclude, a line from the finale to Jacques Offenbach's &quot;Tales Of Hoffman&quot;, the emotional scene in which the Muse takes the dead drunk poet in her arms and declares: &quot;And I, your faithful friend ? Whose hand dried your eyes ? Thanks to whom pain, numbed, rises as dreams into the sky, am I nothing ? May the storm of passion be stilled in you. One is made great through love, but is greater through tears.&quot;	2003-01-11
US	33954650	R3PJX458JKQXTO	1884822827	92833393	The Magic Flute (The Black Dog Opera Library)	Books	5	12	13	N	N	You've Tried The Rest, Now Try The Best	The Magic Flute (Die Zauberflute in German) was Mozart's final opera. It was his favorite and undoubtedly his greatest achievement. When he was in his deathbed, it was said that Mozart requested to hear the score to the Magic Flute one last time. Mozart was a Freemason, although he had been raised as a Catholic and enjoyed sponsorship by the Archbishop of Salzburg for some time. His conversion; into what was a religious and philosophical organization that praised the Englightenment and mystic Egyptian/Zoroastrian beliefs, effected and influenced his musical composition. He had already written music for a Masonic Funeral and Freemasonry deeply influenced the Requiem in D Minor.<br />This recording is out of print in cd form and was probably an LP in the 70's. In 1972, Walter Sawallisch, the Bavarian State Orchestra and the talents of Peter Schreir (Tamino), Annelise Rothenberger (Pamina), Walter Berry (Papageno), Kurt Moll (Sarastro) and Edda Moser (The Queen of the Night) put together what is the definitive, the greatest, the most perfect, the one and only Magic Flute. If you've heard the rest, now try the best. Contrary to the negative comments of the other reviewers, the Black Dog Opera Library has done an excellent job of making this opera accessible, a book full of great illustrations and liner notes on the singers, Mozart and his era. Yes, the Magic Flute has been unjustly considered and theatrically treated as a children's opera, a fairy tale with no real substance, a great work sugar coated into something like Broadway musical or cartoon. Singspiel was great opera (Mozart had tried the form previously with Abduction From The Seraglio) but unlike grand opera, it was more accessible to the ordinary people, to folks who loved catchy tunes they could whistle in the streets on organ grinders or for children to sing at play. It was a people's opera, not a stuffy, overly pompous piece of work. In a way, it was like Broadway or cartoons, simply because people could have fun at the opera. (For an example, take a look at the film Amadeus, in which Mozart is commissioned to write the Magic Flute for a more folk-oriented, Vienna lower class who drank beer and played games on stage while watching the opera, in a nearly circus like environment).<br />Discreetly embellished with Masonic symbolism (the three opening  bombastic chords in the Overture, the Three Ladies, the Three Young Boys in the Balloon, the Egyptian rituals of purification, the choruses and the Zoroastrian figure of Sarastro) are all examples. Allegorically, it was the struggle between the ruling court of Empress Maria Teresa and the supression of Masonry in Austria. This book clearly states this fact. Thus, the powerfully evil Queen of the Night, whose arias are icy coloratura, represents Maria Teresa, Pamina represents the beautiful and faithful Austria, Tamino evidently Emperor Franz Joseph or simply any good person who is beckoned by a noble human cause and finally, Papageno is the earthy, common folk who is no less a great one. This recording is absolutely the best. Peter Schreir is a superlative tenor di grazie, highlights being his aria Dies Bildnis and his scenes with Pamina, Annelise Rothenberger a lyric soprano who reaches perfection in her aria \\"Ach Ich Fuhls\\" and her union with Tamino in the trial of fire. Kurt Moll's Sarastro is poignant, spiritual, a voice suited for God, whose low F's are  contrasted by the sinister, neurotic, tempestuous raging scales of Edda Moser's Queen of the Night, who reaches high F's. The score to the opera is spiritual. Nothing Mozart ever wrote could be more spiritual, full of majesty, obscurity, joy, awe and power. Five stars for this excellent recording.	2003-01-01
US	33954650	R3U7T7V2U090N2	1884822827	92833393	The Magic Flute (The Black Dog Opera Library)	Books	5	12	14	N	N	A Good Introduction To Opera, Outstanding Recording	The Black Dog Opera Library Series had outdone themselves once again. In this 1972 recording of Mozart's last opera, we are treated to a fine performance by fine singers, a fully illustrated book with liner notes and commentary, as well as information useful in biographies on the composer and his time. Mozart was close to his  death bed at the time he composed The Magid Flute. He made an opera that could be enjoyed at many levels. At one level, it is a comic, brilliant fairy tale for children, at another level, it is deeply symbolic and layed with Masonic ideals of universal brotherhood and love. Mozart and his librettist were both Freemasons, a religous \\"sect\\" that was under hot water in 18th century Vienna for its pagan origins and its advocation of ideas of the Enlightenment. The story is about Tamino, a prince who is lost in a strange land (originally, a mystic Egypt), who is rescued from a serpent by three mysterious women and promised the hand of the daughter of the Queen of the Night if he saves her from the wizard Sarastro. Together with the help of the comic bird-catcher, Papageno, he sets out on his adventure. But halfway through the opera, he discovers that he has been deceived. The Queen of the Night is the true villain and Sarastro is really a holy man. After many trials, the forces of evil are defeated and the opera ends blissfully with a victory.<br />Musically and dramatically, it is Mozart's greatest opera. From the striking Overture to the use of dark strings, trumpet and soaring flute passages, the individual arias which express intense emotions to the neverending theme that good triumphs over evil, the Magic Flute stands out as a great opera to begin with for newcomers and a favorite for old time opera fans.<br /> In this recording, conductor Wolfgang Sawallisch leads the Bavarian State Orchestra in a highly effective, thoroughly dramatic and sentimental, full interpretation of Mozart's score. Tenor Peter Schreir as Tamino is exceptional, passionate in his aria \\"Dies Bildnis\\" (This portrait), and again as he plays his flute in \\"Wie Stark ist Nicht dein Zauberton\\" (How powerful is your music, magic flute), his individual lines in the ensembles and his duet with Pamina as they undergo the final trial of fire. Annelise Rothenberger, a sublime German lyric soprano, is moving in her portrayal of Pamina. She has her moments in this recording. Note how her high, melodic voice seems to come from nowhere as she confronts Sarastro and Tamino for the first time \\"Herr! Ich bin zwar Verbrecherin ! (Sir! I am the transgressor). Her aria \\"Ach Ich Fuhls\\" (O, I feel that happy days have passed) is the finest interpretation, full of pathos and a kind of melancholic madness, as well as her lines in her suicide attempt, finally, she is sublime as a strong woman ready to face trials with Tamino, especially striking when she sings the line \\"Tamino!\\". <br />Kurt Moll's Sarastro is without question the best. His voice is suited for God. So divine and sonorous and full of grace, his voice is especially noticeable in the aria \\"O Isis and Osiris \\" and \\"In deisen Heilen Hallen\\"( In these holy halls). Finally, and not to be missed, is Edda Moser's incredible interpretation of the Queen of the Night. You have not heard the true Queen of the Night, until you've heard Edda Moser. She has a Wagnerian intensity and neurosis in her lines, apt and effective for the role of a Queen bent on deception and the murder of her rival, Sarastro. Her aria \\"O Zittre Nicht, Mein Lieber Son\\" (O tremble not, beloved son\\" is full of lyric dramatic passages and coloratura at the end. The vengeance aria \\"Der Holle Rache Kocht Meine Herzen \\"(Hell's Anger Burns Within My Heart) is full of fire. The way she attacks the dramatic, powerful lines is out of this world and the high F's she escalates are unsurpassed.	2002-12-27
US	33954650	RK0HD6FCHUY4P	1884822819	894101606	Carmen (The Black Dog Opera Library)	Books	5	8	13	N	N	An Introduction To Opera, A Monumental Recording	I have said it before and I will say it again. The Black Dog Opera Library series contains quality opera recordings, top-notch singers and orchestras, and as a bonus, liner notes and commentary on the opera, providing background information on the composer and the time period. In this remarkable book, we are treated to the greatest recording of Bizet's opera, Carmen. It was recorded 1969-70, and stars Jon Vickers, Grace Bumbry and Kostas Paskalis. The opera is timeless and has retained its popularity for more than a century. MTV has produced its own version, calling it a hip-hop-opera, there is talk of doing a musical-style rendition, and in the 50's, Carmen Jones with an all black cast did an incredible job of translating the songs into English with the help of Rogers and Hammestein. Carmen is based on the French writer Prosper Merimme's dark novella. It tells the story of a Spanish Gypsy woman who works undercover as a cigarette maker in Seville. In reality, she works for contraband smugglers who are constantly on the road. Don Jose is the soldier whose regiment is stationed by the factory. After arresting Carmen for a catfight, she seduces him and he falls madly in love with her, a love that later becomes consumed with obscession. Carmen convinces Don Jose to join her fellow smugglers and they travel across Spain. For love of her, Don Jose has abandoned his regiment and his fiancee, Micaela, the polar opposite of Carmen- she is a Christian-bred, homely woman. When Carmen tires of Don Jose, she abandons him for the more attractive champion bullfighter Escamillo. During a bullfight, Carmen confronts Don Jose and makes it clear she no longer loves him. In a jealous crime of passion, Don Jose stabs Carmen to death.<br />Rafael Burgos conducts a supremely effective orchestra who truly brings out the originality, drama, melody and intensity of Bizet's score. From the Overture, which concludes with its fatalistic theme, to each of the Spanish-style dances, among them Habanera, Seguidilla and Gypsy Song (all arias for Carmen), the soft melody of the Prelude to the final act and the concluding final scene, are all magnificent interpretation. The singers, individually, are fine actor/singers. Tenor Jon Vickers, who has a vast repertoire, including Wagner, brings a more realistic approach to Don Jose. He is passionate, he is obscessed and determined to have Carmen come what may. His Wagnerian intensity are self-evident in his arguments with Carmen and in the final scene of her murder, especially striking in his \\"Ainsi, le salut de mon ame\\" \\"And so I am to lose my heart\\". His Flower Song \\"La Fleur\\" is a fresh new rendition, not ending with a high, strong note as typical tenors do, but a soft high, B-flat, effectively producing the effect that he is genuinely in love, but obscessed and haunted by, Carmen. <br />Grace Bumbry's Carmen is her best role. She is assertive, she is seductive, flirtatious and dangerous. She is the original femme fatale. But it's clear that Bizet intended for Carmen to bring about her own fate. Her signature aria, \\"Habanera\\" compares her to a rebellious bird of freedom, a lawless Gypsy child and boasts that her love belongs to no one man. Her Gypsy Song is full of fire and mischief. But aside from these playful arias, Carmen has serious moments in the opera. Among them is the scene in which she reads the death card. \\"Toujours, Le Morte\\" (Always death) is the refrain and the lush lyricism and seriousness of her aria equals to any soprano aria that was in vogue even during Bizet's time. Her final scene, in which she is stabbed by the angry Don Jose, is her best moment. She confronts him with dignity and strength. If she is to die, she will die because she has willed it, in fact, she states it so expressively in the lines \\"Je sais bien que tu me tueras, mas que je vive ou que je muere, non, non, je ne tu cedarai pas ! (I know that you are going to kill me, but whether I live or I die, no, no, I will never give in to you!) Note her dramatic high register on the words \\"non, non,\\". She again asserts her free will when she says to Don Jose \\"Jamais Carmen ne cedera! Libre elle est nee et libre elle mourra ! ( Never will Carmen yield! She was born free and she will die free!). Kostas Paskalis, a Greek baritone, was overlooked as a fine singer during his time, for he was shadowed by baritones such as Sherril Milnes; but Paskalis is a fine interpretor of Escamillo, full of bravado and masculine energy. His crowning moment is not in \\"Toreador\\" but in the duel with Don Jose in the last act. This opera has it all. And I recommend this particular product to those interested in opera for the first time. For opera buffs this is also a treat.	2002-12-27
US	33954650	RMISXAQK5RV1X	1559361522	640090110	Collected Stories	Books	5	11	11	N	N	A Lesson In Great Drama For Serious Actors	PBS (KCET) has made a television episodic drama based on this play by Donald Margulies, starring Linda Lavin and Samantha Matthis, who have both performed this play on stage at the Geffen playhouse. This is simply a moving and inspirational play, well-written and powerful. It takes place in the early 90's in Greenwich Village. A young writer and student (Debra) has applied for a job as an assistant/gopher to an elderly teacher and successfully published writer, Ruth Steiner. She undergoes tutorials with Ruth and they develop a friendship, although there are moments when Debra invades Ruth's personal space. For example, Debra rearranges Ruth's things and Ruth becomes upset. There is also a scene in which Debra accidentally discovers a letter by Ruth's old flame and mentor, the beatnick poet Delmore Schwartz.<br />Ruth and Debra's relationship dominates the play. They have a tense, fragile relationship that in the end, has to do with time, although the argument about professional jealousy can be made. Debra has made it as a writer, enjoying both friendship and support from the wise, urbane Ruth who has become set in her ways. But when Debra writes her first novel, she touches a subject that is too personal for Ruth. It is in fact the first love and artistic experience that Ruth had with Delmore Swartz that causes the gap between their friendship. It is interesting to note how easily you can at first sympathize with Debra, whose excuse was that she was honoring Ruth and not parodying her in any way. Nevertheless, I've read this play time and again, and can also understand the heartbreak and betrayal Ruth goes when her stories are taken. That is the point of the play: who owns your life ? Who has the right to tell a story ? It is as much a lesson in great drama as it is in life.<br />Actors and actresses will benefit immensely from this play. It is  well written, makes a good script or screenplay and has every inch of emotional and powerful material, especially concering older colleague versus younger. Both characters are well-rounded, intelligent, mature, emotional and must be electric on stage. Ruth Steiner's character, in my opinion, has the most characterization. She is sophisticated, she is urbane, she is innately Jewish and possesses a great deal of knowledge and in the same light as Debra's young, intense persona, it's clearly great drama. Secondly and finally, this is a great book to read in a drama class or simply in an English course in high school. What teacher would not consider this great modern drama ? I will be only glad to recommend this to my fellow teacher friends.	2002-12-17
US	33954650	R3D6WWFKNAX6LG	067172262X	43217624	Hamlet	Books	5	6	8	N	N	To Be Or Not To Be: This Is The Hamlet To Own	The Folger Library series are your best Shakespeare source. They specialize in Shakespeares' greatest plays and are quality books that are perfect companion and translator to Shakespeare. It is loaded with page after page of translation from the Old English expressions that are no longer in use to our modern talk, and pictures as well as historic background information on th Elizabethan era and Shakespeares' life. Hamlet is without question Shakespeare's greatest tragedy, remaining in our theatrical culture to this very day. It has become a conversation piece for English professors, dramatists and screen actors (Mel Gibson tackled the role in 1991) and even psychologists, who claim that Hamlet had the Oedipal complex, especially when they read the scene in which Hamlet is in his mother's bedroom. What makes Hamlet so great ? Why does this old play still come alive when performed on the stage in the hands of the right actors ?<br />Shakespeare, believe it or not, was a people's person and knew about the human condition perhaps more than anyone in his day. Hamlet deals principally with obscession for revenge. Hamlet is a prince whose father has been murdered under the evil conspiracy from his uncle Claudius and even the support of his mother, Queen Gertrude. Depressed, wearing black all the time, and very much as solitary as any \\"Goth\\" would be in our day, Hamlet laments his situation, until his father's ghost appears and urges him to avenge his death. The mystery still remains, is this ghost real ? Is it, as many in Elizabetheans thought, a demon in disguise ? Or is it simply a figment of Hamlet's own emotions and desire for revenge. At any rate, Hamlet's father appears twice and Hamlet spends most of the play planning his revenge. His most striking line that reveals this consuming need is \\"The play's the thing, wherein I'll catch the conscience of the king!\\".<br />Pretending to be mad, he scorns even the love of the woman he genuinely loves, Ophelia, whose mind is shattered and heart is broken and who has an impressive mad scene. The deaths of Hamlet's friends, Rosencrantz and Guildenstern, are also in Hamle'ts hands and a consequence of his revenge. The famous soliloquy in the play, is of course, \\"To be or not to be\\", taken on by such great actors as Lawrence Olivier and Orson Welles. Hamlet muses on the brevity of life and the suffering which can only cease through death, as he holds a skull and is evidently suicidal. Finally, the last scenes are the most dramatic. Hamlet duels with Laertes, Ophelia's brother, and with Claudius himself.  The deaths of the main cast, including the Queen, goes to show how tragic the human desire for greed and revenge is.<br />This is Shakespeare's finest tragedy, and quality drama, best seen in a live stage performance, but that also works as a film. As for this book, as I said before, this is the Hamlet to have. You will become more acquianted with Hamlet and Shakespeare even more than taking a year's course with a teacher. This book itself is the teacher.	2002-12-15
US	33954650	R10IQZG229VZU8	1579120172	325232111	La Traviata (Black Dog Opera Library)	Books	5	6	8	N	N	A Great Introduction To Opera And Beverly Sills	The 2 reviews for this particular product are mixed. One reviewer is clearly in love with the quality of the recording and talents of the singers and the other says that this La Traviata is not his first choice. When you have Beverly Sills as an opera heroine, that should always be your first choice, unless you try the rest and finally decide to hear the best. This is without argument the best La Traviata recording and there are so many reasons for this conclusion. First of all, Black Dog Opera Library series has great performances of opera captured on quality sound and full of illustrated pages profiling the life of the composer and historic background of the opera, as well as a bio on the singers. The libretto is precise and embellished with notes on key moments (arias, ensembles, etc) of the opera.<br />Beverly Sills (Violetta) has sung the role 54 times in the course of 63 days. She is equally as powerful an actress as she is a singer, at paar with her contemporary of the 60's, Maria Callas. In this recording (1971) her voice is still a fine instrument, and she conveys a broad range of artistic value. In the first act, the party act in which she first meets Alfredo (Nicolai Gedda in excellent vocal character), she is bubbly and appropriately festive (she even laughs) and provides us with an operetta-like charm. Her tour de force scene comes at the end of the first act, from the melodious way she sings &quot;A Fors E Lui&quot; to the coloratura showpiece, &quot;Sempre Libera&quot;, which she ends with an E flat over a high C. In her Act 2 duet with Germont (apty sung by Rolando Panerai) she moves us with her suffering pathos in her lines &quot;Ditte A La Giovine&quot;, &quot;Morro La Mia Memoria&quot; and her farewell to Alfredo &quot;Amami Alfredo&quot;. In the confrontation scene where she belts out a tense &quot;Invitato A Qui Seguirmi&quot;, and the ensuing &quot;Alfredo, Alfredo, di questo core&quot; are all fine moments for Beverly Sills, her voice even rising above the chorus ensemble at the end. Her final scenes, from &quot;Addio Del Passato&quot; to the last breath she takes, is remarkable.<br />This recording is just one of two recordings with the same group- the John Alldys Choir, Aldo Ceccato conducting the Royal Philharmonic Orchestra and the singers- Beverly Sills, Nicolai Gedda and Rolando Panerai. Either of these two recordings are great introduction to opera for novices and the art of Beverly Sills. Look no further if you want a great recording of the most intimate and romantic opera that Verdi ever composed. It is a story of love, a portrait of a woman who gives up her glamorous Parisian lifestyle as a courtesan and sacrifices even her own happiness for the man she loves. It is safe to say that this is the most romantic opera, full of rich melody and great acting. At the hands of the right performers, it's a memorable experience.	2002-12-14
