US	34036979	R3KZDG1ATNW683	0472085573	416895260	Almost a Revolution: The Story of a Chinese Student's Journey from Boyhood to Leadership in Tiananmen Square (Ann Arbor Paperbacks)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	"We only want the government to talk with us and to say that we are not traitors."	So said one of the student leaders, as quoted by Shen Tong (himself a leader) in \\"Almost a Revolution.\\" This is a very fluidly written, personal account of the events leading up to the killings of workers & students by Chinese soldiers in Tiananmen Square, Beijing, on June 5 1989. Fortunately, with more recent events in Ukraine, \\"Soviet\\" Georgia, Tajikistan, even Lebanon (not forgetting Eastern Europe), we have seen how revolutions gain strength, often like tropical storms that develope into hurricanes with surprising rapidity. Meteorologically, we can explain such happening on the weather front ONCE THEY OCCUR, but we're rarely capable of predicting such developments until they are almost in our faces, so to speak. The event that sparked events in China was the death of Hu Yaobang on April 15th. \\"Hu Yaobang had become something of a hero since he had been made the scapegoat of the 1986 student movement and ousted as general secretary, and many of us,\\" says the author, \\"had hoped that he would be brought back someday to lead China on the road to reform.\\" Acknowledgment of his passing by many, however, soon began to be read by the government as a renewed call for reform. Thus began the chain of events that resulted in students' boycotting classes, printing flyers, and finally, camping out in Tiananmen Square. In the author's view, \\"there was clearly an internal struggle going on between Li Peng [a hardliner] and Zhao Ziyang [a Chinese leader who had declared on May 7th his openness to a dialogue with the students].\\" Evidence of such was the fact that \\"starting May 17, the press in China operated without censorship from the goverment for a few days.\\" Mikhail Gorbachev had arrived for a visit 2 days earlier and the Chinese government was seemingly caught off-guard in the headlights of the world's media for a moment while it contemplated how to respond a mass protest in Beijing's central square. The one fault of this book (besides no index) is that the author has nothing to say about this visit by Gorbachev. He mentions the Soviet leader's arrival and departure, but literally nothing otherwise; no impressions or anything how such a visit affected events on the ground in Beijing, or within the corridors of the Chinese government. This was before the collapse of Eastern Europe, mind you, but I find it hard to believe that the issue of Gorbachev (glasnost/reform) wasn't a topic of discussion amongst at least some of the student leaders arrayed around Shen Tong. Back to events: Martial Law was declared on May 20. On May 21 word began to filter out that Zhao Ziyang had been removed as general secretary of the Chinese Communist Party (though it wasn't announced until May 26th). The crackdown came soon after, but the author wasn't as much a witness & participant to this aspect as he was in all the events leading up to it. He doesn't, consequently, write much about the tanks entering Beijing (or the famous photograph of the solitary man courageously standing his ground before one particular one), or what exactly happened that day---he doesn't even guess at how many Chinese were killed. But, this is nevertheless a remarkable story (that reads quickly & gives much interesting detail of the author's childhood, particularly as it relates to his coming to question things & the role his intellectual father had on his development). Cheers!g to say about this visit by Gorbachev. He mentions the Soviet leader's arrival and departure, but literally nothing otherwise; no impressions or anything how such a visit affected events on the ground in Beijing, or within the corridors of the Chinese government. This was before the collapse of Eastern Europe, mind you, but I find it hard to believe that the issue of Gorbachev (glasnost/reform) wasn't a topic of discussion amongst at least some of the student leaders arrayed around Shen Tong. Back to events: Martial Law was declared on May 20. On May 21 word began to filter out that Zhao Ziyang had been removed as general secretary of the Chinese Communist Party (though it wasn't announced until May 26th). The crackdown came soon after, but the author wasn't as much a witness & participant to this aspect as he was in all the events leading up to it. He doesn't, consequently, write much about the tanks entering Beijing (or the famous photograph of the solitary man courageously standing his ground before one particular one), or what exactly happened that day---he doesn't even guess at how many Chinese were killed. But, this is nevertheless a remarkable story (that reads quickly & gives much interesting detail of the author's childhood, particularly as it relates to his coming to question things & the role his intellectual father had on his development). Cheers!	2005-08-28
US	34036979	R2RSQMP38IULL0	0394576438	390066039	The Flight from Truth: The Reign of Deceit in the Age of Information	Books	4	19	22	N	N	"Formerly ignorance was the enemy, today it is falsehood."	Our future depends \\"on the correct or incorrect, honest or dishonest use of information.\\"  \\"Formerly ignorance was the enemy, today it is falsehood.\\"  Communism and Nazism are both dead, hence it's an interesting point that the Left wants to keep Nazism \\"alive,\\" so to speak; apparently to sustain the myth that the Right is the danger which we must remain vigilant against, as they continue to trumpet the notion of collectiveness and anti-capitalism under other guises; as well as the notion that enlightened government can transform society if given the power to do so.  In a way this is to be expected: \\"A school of thought that knows it is in a state of decline struggles even more fiercely to preserve its identity.\\" Revel is not at all surprised consequently that French textbooks even into 1980 continued to embellish Sovietism.  (I'd add further that Hitler denunciations still out number anti-Stalin comments 1000-1. Moreover, how many films touching on Lenin or Stalin have been made? Why is nothing on film about communism/Soviet brutality in Eastern Europe and the Baltics/Soviet Gulags/Red terror wholesale murderings/show trials & Soviet anti-semitism...just to name a few subjects that are ignored while Nazi issues/characters/events feature in countless films.)  But just because the French Revolution, and its communistic offspring, can be seen to have proved a failure (in Eastern Europe, the USSR, Cambodia, Vietnam, Cuba, Angola, Mozambique, North Korea, et al)  doesn't mean fans of such states' 'motives' have reconsidered their inclined views.  As Lauret Fabius, the former socialist prime minister of France, has put it: \\"Socialism is a direction.\\"  As long as it can claim anything supposedly positive (Castro's famed health system, for instance) it gets a pass on everything else.  That's why Stalin always got the benefit of any possible doubts from those so inclined;  and such explains the Left's silence when the Soviet Union signed a pact with Hitler, and later when it invaded Czechoslovkia, Hungary, & Afghanistan (all the while railing against the WEST over Pinochet's Chile and South African apartheid & other such states led by more Rightist governments).  Last year on TV I saw a prominent author (Simon Winchester) toss an aside that \\"of course I have great admiration for the Rosenbergs.\\"  This notwithstanding the publication, just several years ago, of the \\"Venona\\" cables  & Russian documents which conclusively prove that the Rosenbergs were traitors.  Such is the epitome of Mr. Revel's point:  \\"Arguments/discoveries are not imposed by intellectual conviction.\\"  Revel quotes Jonathan Swift in support of this notion: \\"You cannot reason a person out of something he has not been reasoned into.\\"  Such folks are simply going to hold onto their instinctive beliefs & society is going to simply have to wait them out.  Revel compares the dynamic to the development of science.  Scientific theories often do not triumph over other theories on facts, but rather by having the staying power to hold their own while the previous theories wither on the vine (and the previous theory adherents give way to a succeeding generation).  In short, with all our development in education, the accessibility of travel & information, etc., we as a people are not getting any wiser.  Society is getting wiser, however, but unfortunately at high cost.  (The lesson of failed communism, of government not being able to transform society without recourse to terror, cost tens of millions of lives.)  Things would be a lot easier, of course, if people tried using their own brains more.  Once something fails over and over again it behooves us to recognize that fact and consider alternate means to achieve the goal at hand.t invaded Czechoslovkia, Hungary, & Afghanistan (all the while railing against the WEST over Pinochet's Chile and South African apartheid & other such states led by more Rightist governments).  Last year on TV I saw a prominent author (Simon Winchester) toss an aside that \\"of course I have great admiration for the Rosenbergs.\\"  This notwithstanding the publication, just several years ago, of the \\"Venona\\" cables  & Russian documents which conclusively prove that the Rosenbergs were traitors.  Such is the epitome of Mr. Revel's point:  \\"Arguments/discoveries are not imposed by intellectual conviction.\\"  Revel quotes Jonathan Swift in support of this notion: \\"You cannot reason a person out of something he has not been reasoned into.\\"  Such folks are simply going to hold onto their instinctive beliefs & society is going to simply have to wait them out.  Revel compares the dynamic to the development of science.  Scientific theories often do not triumph over other theories on facts, but rather by having the staying power to hold their own while the previous theories wither on the vine (and the previous theory adherents give way to a succeeding generation).  In short, with all our development in education, the accessibility of travel & information, etc., we as a people are not getting any wiser.  Society is getting wiser, however, but unfortunately at high cost.  (The lesson of failed communism, of government not being able to transform society without recourse to terror, cost tens of millions of lives.)  Things would be a lot easier, of course, if people tried using their own brains more.  Once something fails over and over again it behooves us to recognize that fact and consider alternate means to achieve the goal at hand.ought to reconsider this issue.\\"  Instead of taking /	2005-08-28
US	34036979	R27BNZG1YCVBXD	0465092667	810818791	The Cube and the Cathedral: Europe, America, and Politics Without God	Books	4	15	20	N	N	Without any principled belief system people become inclined to believe in anything (as G.K. Chesterton stated).	Europe, George Weigel thinks, is in \\"Civilizational crisis\\"; seemingly to be suffering from a loss of hope, a lack of faith in the future. Look at the fact that no Western European country is currently even approaching a replacement-level birthrate. \\"What is happening,\\" Mr. Weigel asks, \\"when an entire continent [though eastern Europe, admittedly is doing better herein], wealthier and healthier than ever before declines to create the human future in the most elemental sense, by creating a next generation?\\" (The replacement rate of 2.1 births vs. France's 1.7, Germany's 1.3, Italy's 1.2, and Spain's 1.1, for instance.) \\"[A]t the root of this loss of hope,\\" Weigel quotes Henri de Lubac, \\"is an attempt to promote a vision of man apart from God and apart from Christ\\"---witness how Europeans not only recoiled from, but horrored at, George Bush when he expressed \\"the idea that freedom is a gift from God that must be actively defended\\"; & how of the roughly 70,000 words of the new EU constitution awaiting ratification you will not find \\"Christianity\\" (notwithstanding it being \\"the embodiment of a story that has arguably had more to do with 'constituting' Europe than anything else\\").  Such culture-shaping ideas of atheistic humanism (\\"atheism with a developed ideology and a program for remaking the world\\") is what now characterizes the EU. Hence \\"transnational courts and the Brussels bureaucracy\\" leading the charge for \\"a softer form of socialism,\\" coupled with a \\"nihilistic attitude toward the idea of any transcendent standard of judgement (or justice) by which public life is to be ordered.\\" Mr. Weigel likens such behavior to \\"an adolescent rebellion against parents.\\" God's search for man and the human response to that divine quest may have been the central reality of history; history in the literal past, but we've reached the end of that line's utility, some seemingly argue---we can take it from here.  Concomitant with this seeming trend is the reality (in Mr. Weigal's view) that \\"demographic vacumns do not remain unfilled\\"; that should the majority in Europe continue to denegrate faith, such will only further reflexively discourage the minority (but fast increasing) Muslim population within Europe to assimilate under the banner of democracy, tolerance, & religious freedom for all.  Instead, Mr. Weigel fears instead---as the murder of Theo Van Gogh in Holland by a middle class Muslim has highlighted---that (in the words of Germany's paper \\"Speigel\\") \\"the veil of multiculturalism has been lifted, revealing parallel societies\\" within even individual European countries. So while Europe (ie., the politically  powerful \\"old Europe\\" of \\"Cubist\\" worshipping Belgium, France, & Germany in particular) seeks to deny its own heritage & its religious heart (in its proposed constitution), and seeks to make Europe more uniform, bureaucratic, and less responsive to its own member-states' citizens, we are left to hope that the \\"East\\" (ie., \\"New Europe\\"---epitomizing the \\"Cathedral\\" herein) will come to the rescue by emphasizing the point that \\"faith\\" (encouraged by Pope John Paul II) engendered the liberation of millions of Europeans (with Ronald Reagan's help, of course too).  But the power of \\"faith\\" herein wasn't a one-off fluke, is Mr. Weigel's point in this book, to be acknowledged only to the point toward declaring the job done in Eastern Europe & thence to be eclipsed; especially now with the Catholic Church increasingly offering much as to how \\"faith\\" itself is transcendent; the life's effort by John Paul II that was particularly brought home by the hundreds of thousands who witnessed it firsthand, & the upwards of 2 billion who witnessed from afar, that man's funeral.  Mr. Weigel's book is a short read (6 hours max), but it offers plenty which to contemplate. (05Apr) God Blessew) that \\"demographic vacumns do not remain unfilled\\"; that should the majority in Europe continue to denegrate faith, such will only further reflexively discourage the minority (but fast increasing) Muslim population within Europe to assimilate under the banner of democracy, tolerance, & religious freedom for all.  Instead, Mr. Weigel fears instead---as the murder of Theo Van Gogh in Holland by a middle class Muslim has highlighted---that (in the words of Germany's paper \\"Speigel\\") \\"the veil of multiculturalism has been lifted, revealing parallel societies\\" within even individual European countries. So while Europe (ie., the politically  powerful \\"old Europe\\" of \\"Cubist\\" worshipping Belgium, France, & Germany in particular) seeks to deny its own heritage & its religious heart (in its proposed constitution), and seeks to make Europe more uniform, bureaucratic, and less responsive to its own member-states' citizens, we are left to hope that the \\"East\\" (ie., \\"New Europe\\"---epitomizing the \\"Cathedral\\" herein) will come to the rescue by emphasizing the point that \\"faith\\" (encouraged by Pope John Paul II) engendered the liberation of millions of Europeans (with Ronald Reagan's help, of course too).  But the power of \\"faith\\" herein wasn't a one-off fluke, is Mr. Weigel's point in this book, to be acknowledged only to the point toward declaring the job done in Eastern Europe & thence to be eclipsed; especially now with the Catholic Church increasingly offering much as to how \\"faith\\" itself is transcendent; the life's effort by John Paul II that was particularly brought home by the hundreds of thousands who witnessed it firsthand, & the upwards of 2 billion who witnessed from afar, that man's funeral.  Mr. Weigel's book is a short read (6 hours max), but it offers plenty which to contemplate. (05Apr) God Bless	2005-08-23
US	34036979	R1FW4KK87D7P6P	0739314009	925221592	How to Talk to a Liberal (If You Must): The World According to Ann Coulter	Books	3	7	19	N	N	...	First up, Thanks for taking the time to read my words herein. Incidentially, Miss Coulter only reads the first chapter of the audio version of this book, but the (female) reader who handles the rest does so remarkably in the cadence of the author & does so with professional aplomb.  To be honest, I rather dislike collections of essays and/or previously published material packaged in book form, but this work is an exception herein---not only because listening to such journalistic writings makes it fresher, but also because this is not your typical collection of disparate dozens of essays.  Rather, Miss Coulter has included many magazine-lenth articles of hers (both published & and those rejected---with the reasons why added), as well as a selection of her columns.  The result makes this work a lot less superficial than one (especially her detractors) might expect.  For instance, she provides a historical argument concerning an issue related to the American Civil War; one that goes on for around 20 minutes in the audio version.  Other issues she devotes similar time to include, the Elian Gonzalez story, judicial appointments,  the war in Iraq, the 2000 presidential election and, of course, quite a few other issues with less depth: handguns; capital punishment; Thomas Jefferson & the possibility of his fathering slave children---Ann making the case of most serious folks that most likely it was a relation of his who was responsible for this, most likely his brother; why John Kennedy Jr. was a man worthy of respect, etc. The book isn't, consequently a rant---as some may be inclined to think---against liberals/and/or democrats.  What ties everything together, however---and what makes this work more coherent than similar compilations---is that it has a unifying thread.  That Miss Coulter is a lawyer is unmistakable here, for her arguments are often based on legal premises (laws that exist, moreover, not how some would like to see them interpreted).  This book was, in short, a lot more informative than I expected & that made it that much more interesting (WHETHER one agrees with ALL her legal briefs and/or opinions---OR NOT---being beside the point).  I personally don't think that Miss Coulter is particularly effective on television; ie., she is a far better writer than chat show sparring personality, so if you are willing to give her the benefit of any doubts you may have do peruse a copy of this book in a bookstore and read a few random pages. If you're at all inclined then consider this audio version over the book form as I found this format particularly appropriate herein. Cheers!, a lot more informative than I expected & that made it that much more interesting (WHETHER one agrees with ALL her legal briefs and/or opinions---OR NOT---being beside the point).  I personally don't think that Miss Coulter is particularly effective on television; ie., she is a far better writer than chat show sparring personality, so if you are willing to give her the benefit of any doubts you may have do peruse a copy of this book in a bookstore and read a few random pages. If you're at all inclined then consider this audio version over the book form as I found this format particularly appropriate herein. Cheers!	2005-08-23
US	34036979	R1P0V3MN3XXWXT	0767913795	695997885	Who's Looking Out for You?	Books	4	16	24	N	N	Unfortunately, people are too often creatures of habit; and often those habits are not helpful.	What is this book about?  Well, I'll tell you one thing, that it has nothing to do with politics. If you just want to vote against anything associated with Mr. O'Reilly that's one thing, but if you ever wonder how it is that people 10x better off financially than just a few generations back, often seem to live worse, then this (albeit short) book will have some reasonace with you.  Ok, let's get to its specifics: Do you get angst just thinking abut your upbringing? Do you get intoxicated regularly? Are any of your friends bad seeds? If you're a parent---do you think of yourself as your child's friend?  If you can answer yes to such statements then this is a book for you.  Who's looking out for you, thus, is not necessarily for everyone.  It's thesis is basically that if you want to live in a nanny state & be coddled, then move to Europe.  But, if you live in the USA & like the idea of doing so, then don't expect for many others to be looking out for you.  The justice system---O'Reilly states---won't be looking out for you.  Neither will lawyers in the USA; nor the Catholic Church; nor the likes of Jesse Jackson types---who only look out for themselves; nor the media; nor schools.  Who SHOULD be looking out for you include your parents, as well as--hopefully---some close friends.  And as a parent, one should be a Parent, NOT a friend to one's child, because a child has nobody to look after him/her except a parent---and it's not possible to accomplish both in Mr. O'Reilly's opinion.  In short, this is a book about disapline: that one must proactively seek one's own motivation; that one ought to seek knowledge/read/and engage one's mind; that one ought to respect one's body (ie., to exercise, control one's weight & forgo smoking); that one ought not to associate with destructive people; that one ought provide a safe & secure refuge for one's children at home (with no abuse, drunkeness, foul language, etc.).  If you have children or are contemplating such, Mr. O'Reilly sternly advises that you take the responsibility involved therein extremely seriously---and that you ought be successfully looking out for yourself first before taking this step.  His book is a primer on individual self-responsibilty; common sensical at its heart, but also food for thought & worth 6 hours of your time if you are open to---and think you could benefit from---at least a dash of self-improvement (or know a friend who might, as this would be a useful gift to others).  If so, do get the (unabridged) audio version instead, read by Mr. O'Reilly himself; as his words of advice are more pertinent in his own voice. (05Jan) Cheers!sternly advises that you take the responsibility involved therein extremely seriously---and that you ought be successfully looking out for yourself first before taking this step.  His book is a primer on individual self-responsibilty; common sensical at its heart, but also food for thought & worth 6 hours of your time if you are open to---and think you could benefit from---at least a dash of self-improvement (or know a friend who might, as this would be a useful gift to others).  If so, do get the (unabridged) audio version instead, read by Mr. O'Reilly himself; as his words of advice are more pertinent in his own voice. (05Jan) Cheers!	2005-08-15
US	34036979	R2WNV8EA00VCU6	0192805584	688412862	Happiness: The Science behind Your Smile	Books	3	55	62	N	N	Worth 4 stars if it was a bit longer.  Thesis: People are inclined toward making choices that DO NOT maximize their happiness	Drugs such as nicotine \\"stimulate the 'wanting' system, making them the perfect self-marketing products.  If you are a smoker, you have been duped by chemistry into spending a lot of time and money on doing something you don't actually enjoy.\\"  And if you don't smoke?  Well, there's nothing really to take solace in since you too are afflicted similarly, but solely by a genetic bug to outperform others (or at least try to); programmed by evolution.  Evolution, the author reasons, \\"hasn't set us up for the attainment of happiness, merely its pursuit.\\"  We consequently strive for better pay, a nicer home, newer cars; conquests of all sorts---elevations of our status in some regard, all; even if little of it makes us marginally more happy.\\" Thus our biggest enemy if we decide we want to be happy beings, is the very psychology we have to use to do it.\\"<br /><br />That is not to say most folks aren't happy. As studies around the world (cited by the author) have shown, from poor and more well-off countries alike, we are happy, generally speaking---most folks rating their happiness between 6-8 on a ten point scale---but more because most of us are genetically predisposed not to wallow in despair (which explains why we are still here; reproductive success being the proof herein).  The author doesn't specifically address the issue but it seems implied to conclude that most folks anywhere---from time immemorial to now, in most any country, whether rich or poor---will rationalize that what they have isn't bad (& while it certainly could be better---and perhaps will, with hope), they'd acknowledge being generally happy (ie., the 6, 7, or 8 of 10, above).  The point of this book, to summarize then, is that by doing more of what one does, hoping to reach, say, a 9, 9.3, 9.5---you name it, is realistically impossible.  Mind you, I didn't say one cannot increase their personal happiness; or move from a 5.5 to a 7 or whatever on the happiness scale. It's just that we ought not deceive ourselves that $20,000 more a year will make us happy, or that an impressive title will, or a new job---or that in 10 years we will be happier because of such expectations being fulfilled.  Heck, even winning the lottery doesn't make most 'happy happy' for any considerable time period, once they adapt to having what they perhaps dreamed would bring them happiness.<br /><br />There's the rub: Wanting Wanting Wanting keeps us going (& is very productive from a macro perspective--capitalism, after all, has exponentially increased living standards for billions), but addiction to always wanting more is only going to get us just that---More.  But don't expect it to bring happiness.  Next week should your boss say that she/he, because of a lack of work, needs volunteers to take a few days off without pay, raise your hand.  Likewise, spend more time with your kids (even if it costs you financially), your galfriend/boyfriend, husband/wife, boating/golfing/tennis buddies, etcetera.<br /><br />Only by doing more of what you really enjoy will you be happier.  There's a lot of potential herein too, I personally believe. Don't we all spend too much time (wasting time) watching TV & seeing the most talked about (but usually terribly unsatisfying) new films?  Sense of community is down (leading to increases of those suffering from depression) TV viewership is always up, & most are working more hours to pay for things they really don't need.  This is a small, short book (184 written 4X6 sized pages) that addresses something few of us give much thought to---whether we can immeasurably increase out happiness by simply bucking some conventional misnomers instead of focusing on a chimera of \\"happiness.\\"  Cheers!e ourselves that $20,000 more a year will make us happy, or that an impressive title will, or a new job---or that in 10 years we will be happier because of such expectations being fulfilled.  Heck, even winning the lottery doesn't make most 'happy happy' for any considerable time period, once they adapt to having what they perhaps dreamed would bring them happiness.<br /><br />There's the rub: Wanting Wanting Wanting keeps us going (& is very productive from a macro perspective--capitalism, after all, has exponentially increased living standards for billions), but addiction to always wanting more is only going to get us just that---More.  But don't expect it to bring happiness.  Next week should your boss say that she/he, because of a lack of work, needs volunteers to take a few days off without pay, raise your hand.  Likewise, spend more time with your kids (even if it costs you financially), your galfriend/boyfriend, husband/wife, boating/golfing/tennis buddies, etcetera.<br /><br />Only by doing more of what you really enjoy will you be happier.  There's a lot of potential herein too, I personally believe. Don't we all spend too much time (wasting time) watching TV & seeing the most talked about (but usually terribly unsatisfying) new films?  Sense of community is down (leading to increases of those suffering from depression) TV viewership is always up, & most are working more hours to pay for things they really don't need.  This is a small, short book (184 written 4X6 sized pages) that addresses something few of us give much thought to---whether we can immeasurably increase out happiness by simply bucking some conventional misnomers instead of focusing on a chimera of \\"happiness.\\"  Cheers!	2005-07-24
US	34036979	R2IVD9PEO6OVFU	0739306499	695997885	Who's Looking Out for You	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Great common sense gift to give someone who you think ought make some changes.	Do you get angst just thinking about your upbringing? Do you get intoxicated regularly? Are any of your friends bad seeds? If you're a parent---do you think of yourself as your child's friend?  If you can answer yes to such statements then this is a book for you.  Who's looking out for you, thus, is not necessarily for everyone.  It's thesis is basically that if you want to live in a nanny state & be coddled, then move to Europe.  But, if you live in the USA & like the idea of doing so, then don't expect for many others to be looking out for you.  The justice system---O'Reilly states---won't be looking out for you.  Neither will lawyers in the USA; nor the Catholic Church; nor the likes of Jesse Jackson types---who only look out for themselves; nor the media; nor schools.  Who SHOULD be looking out for you include your parents, as well as--hopefully---some close friends.  And as a parent, one should be a Parent, NOT a friend to one's child, because a child has nobody to look after him/her except a parent---and it's not possible to accomplish both in Mr. O'Reilly's opinion.  In short, this is a book about disapline: that one must proactively seek one's own motivation; that one ought to seek knowledge/read/and engage one's mind; that one ought to respect one's body (ie., to exercise, control one's weight & forgo smoking); that one ought not to associate with destructive people; that one ought provide a safe & secure refuge for one's children at home (with no abuse, drunkeness, foul language, etc.).  If you have children or are contemplating such, Mr. O'Reilly sternly advises that you take the responsibility involved therein extremely seriously---and that you ought be successfully looking out for yourself first before taking this step.  His book is a primer on individual self-responsibilty; common sensical at its heart, but also food for thought & worth 6 hours of your time if you are open to---and think you could benefit from---at least a dash of self-improvement.  If so, do get this (unabridged) audio version, read by Mr. O'Reilly himself; as his words of advice are more pertinent in his own voice.  Cheers!so, do get this (unabridged) audio version, read by Mr. O'Reilly himself; as his words of advice are more pertinent in his own voice.  Cheers!	2005-07-15
US	34036979	R3O2II7R8MXF0P	0895260522	787485175	Shadow War: The Untold Story of How Bush Is Winning the War on Terror	Books	3	14	19	N	N	Akin to the Cold War, successes are often hidden.	There's a reason why Mr Miniter calls this book of  his Shadow War.  In print & on television (especially on CNN) we are almost daily treated to a cavalcade of atrocities---homicide bombings, kidnappings, and the like.  It's the same thing with local news.  If you visit New York, Houston, Chicago---wherever, and immerse yourself in nothing but local news from within your hotel room for a few days, with what apprehension will you hit the pavement beyond your lobby, do you reckon?  My point herein is that \\"news\\" is, almost by definition, catastrophic.  And even if, say, New York is dangerous in some parts at some hours of the day, does that indicate that the NYPD is totally ineffective and/or incompetent?  Mr. Miniter's argument herein is similar; in that terrorist cells do still exist all over the globe, and just because some of them have been successful (Bali, Madrid, Riyadh, et al.) doesn't mean progess isn't being made.  Moreover, to say that the USA is WITHOUT DOUBT losing The War on Terror betrays an ideological unwillingness to see it any other way; for there have been, objectively speaking, more allied successes than failures since 9/11.  Mr. Miniter's work only buttresses this point by publicizing a number of successes that heretofore haven't received much, if any, media coverage.  One case in point, of many in this book: Some Moroccans interned in Guantanamo give up information to suggest that the Straits of Gibraltar could be in danger.  CIA Director Tenet flies to see the King of Morocco in response.  King Hassan sends some of his own intelligence officers to Cuba to question these prisoners on the notion that Moroccans can pick out a lot more information from Moroccans---relating to speech patterns, behavior, language stress & the like---than Americans can.  These officers get the name of the terror-cell's wife, which in turn, leads them to this suspect's hideout.  The Moroccans' then tail this man as he tries to procure Zodiac speedboats on the coast.  He is later arrested & gives information about how the attack on Gibraltar's shipping lanes were to be blocked as well as information on the al-Qaeda strategist behind this plan.  That man (Abdul al-Nashiri, who participated in the Cole bombing planning) was later nabbed in The United Arab Emirates while he planned another seaborne terrorist plot.  Another operation led Greek forces to seize a cargo ship (flagged as the Baltic Sky) laden with 8,000 detonators & 680 tons of explosives stacked in boxes; and another uncovered a US Navy seaman passing  operational information to parties suspected of terrorist ties.  Admittedly, this book is rather short---only 168 of its approx. 250 pages relate to the topic at hand.  The rest consists of documents, an index, and most significantly, an invaluable annotated bibliography which runs for 16 pages.  For those interested in studying the issues of terrorism, the Middle East, intelligence operations, etc. this resource will serve you well.  I, myself, have jotted down a half dozen books that look particulaly intriquing for further exploration.  This book is thus but an appetizer of sorts, rather than the greatest or worst thing you'll ever read---as some other reviewers have lauded or criticized it above.  Keep that in mind should you chose to give Mr. Miniter some of your time.  (04Dec) Cheers!He is later arrested & gives information about how the attack on Gibraltar's shipping lanes were to be blocked as well as information on the al-Qaeda strategist behind this plan.  That man (Abdul al-Nashiri, who participated in the Cole bombing planning) was later nabbed in The United Arab Emirates while he planned another seaborne terrorist plot.  Another operation led Greek forces to seize a cargo ship (flagged as the Baltic Sky) laden with 8,000 detonators & 680 tons of explosives stacked in boxes; and another uncovered a US Navy seaman passing  operational information to parties suspected of terrorist ties.  Admittedly, this book is rather short---only 168 of its approx. 250 pages relate to the topic at hand.  The rest consists of documents, an index, and most significantly, an invaluable annotated bibliography which runs for 16 pages.  For those interested in studying the issues of terrorism, the Middle East, intelligence operations, etc. this resource will serve you well.  I, myself, have jotted down a half dozen books that look particulaly intriquing for further exploration.  This book is thus but an appetizer of sorts, rather than the greatest or worst thing you'll ever read---as some other reviewers have lauded or criticized it above.  Keep that in mind should you chose to give Mr. Miniter some of your time.  (04Dec) Cheers!	2005-07-13
US	34036979	RWRESP73GME9R	0312422172	700699244	20:21 Vision: Twentieth-Century Lessons for the Twenty-First Century	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Extrapolation is a pessimist's crutch	That's the central point of this book by the editor of the Economist (the best newsmagazine in english).  We cannot assume what afflicted us yesterday will necessarily afflict us tomorrow; the day after, and so on.  That's the problem too many suffer from, and not just in today's world.  It is a recurrent proclivity that people incline to, probably because it's the path of least intellectual resistance.  Folks bemoan pollution, amongst other things, and extrapolate certain figures into self-perceived doomsday scenarios. The problem, according to Bill Emmott, is that too many people are more inclined to see the faults of capitalism than its benefits.  It is the only system capable of responding to ever changing situations, stimuli, and new opportunities.  Inherent in such a system, of course, is its destructive nature---competition is going to produce successes and failures; companies, industries even, will be eclipsed, over time, by other competing forces.  It's a regenerative cycle; and not without painful effects.  The job of governments, thus, is to mitigate such pain without overly stifling the system that gives rise to it---for it is this system of capitalism, warts and all, that is responsible for the phenomenal improvement in western societies and substancial gains almost everywhere else.  While reading other reviewers of this book it struck me that many were, seemingly, not at all keen on \\"Capitalism\\" itself and thus were writing to criticize the system and/or Mr. Emmott for his (hedged) praise of it.  The problem for such folks is that they want all the growth that capitalist market forces generate, but with none of the side-effects of it; as if one could have the results desired while removing the drive that creates such in the first place.  Mr. Emmott, however, does believe we can mitigate some of the negative side-effects herein, but only that; to be too proactice with regulation and/or central planning is simply going to kill the golden goose, so to speak. Progess is not inevitable, but opportunity does exist---and not just for the part of the world that is already wealthy.  And what accounts for the divide between the wealthy world and the poorer is that the former has actively embraced such opportunity.  Our global sysyem is not a failure because all haven't shared in it equally.  It has been remarkably successful actually, and not because of exploitation either.  Colonialism and imperialism were not the cause of the West's success, as Dinish D'Souza has argued. They are the result of that success; thanks to the natural embrace of science and technology by capitalist systems.  The system, in other words, is not loaded against any possible participants.  Look at the achievements made by many previously dirt-poor states in Asia and---more recently---India, Brazil and Mexico.  Embrace of market forces does work and is why states interested in growth eagerly wish to join the World Trade Organization.  The idea that because the global economic system bears an American imprint it is an exploitative one, thus, is a canard.  China, amongst others, did not embrace the WTO to be exploited.  If anything, America is but an enabling power and is, moreover, \\"the first preeminent power in history whose ideas, if they triumph, would bring about the loss of its dominance.\\"  America, ie., wasn't hurt economically by enabling Japan & Germany to recover after WW2.  Riches, after all, are not a zero-sum game: the pie grows biggger and bigger through increased globalization. Globalization equals a more stable world & a more stable world is possible as long as America remains engaged & remains willing to deal with threats to such a world.  The author hopes, in addition, that more and more participating states will partake of the opportunity to embrace the free, market-driven world & break out of their ideological cul-de-sacs which heretofore have confined them to poverty.  It's Bill Emmott's vision for the Twenty-first century. Cheers!!	2005-07-04
US	34036979	R1GUG7Z50WETQX	037572575X	597967363	Europe's Last Summer: Who Started the Great War in 1914?	Books	4	11	14	N	N	Who started the War? Well, which war do you mean?	That's the central point of this engaging read by Mr. Fromkin, that what's commonly referred to as 'The Great War' was actually 2 different wars---Austria-Hungary versus Serbia being distinct from the greater conflagration.  So, when enquiring as to who started it, one must be precise in specifying which war one is speaking about.  In this book, the author persuasively makes the case that Austria-Hungary had it in for Serbia and simply used the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand as the excuse for doing what they were already planning to do---ie., deal with the problem (as perceived by them) of Serbia.  Germany acquiesced in support of Austria-Hungary and expected the issue to be settled (ie., Serbia weakened) forthwith & that would be the end of it; BUT, Austria-Hungary took its sweet time---so much time that what ought have been a fait accompli before other European states would be able to object, became contestable.  Thence members of the \\"war party\\" in Germany began to maneuver for action; operating under the assumption that Germany was losing power vis-a-vis other European states, and that since conflict was inevitable, better to have it now than later.  So Germany started The First World War, but the war didn't begin with Archduke Ferdinand's assassination.  Rather, Germany chose the path for general war even after it had been given ample opportunity by other powers to disengage from escalating tensions brought on by Austria's mishandling of that country's crisis with Serbia.  The First World War thus was no accidental happenstance, but was brought about by Germany's willingness to bring the then almost decade-long turmoil in European political affairs to a head; before its perceived position further weakened vis-a-vis Russia, in particular.  Mr. Fromkin's book is extremely detailed and relate solely to what it purports to address---the summer of 1914. (Read John Keegans \\"The First World War\\" for what happened once the guns started & \\"Paris 1919\\" for treaty matters sorting it out after the fact.) (05Mar) Cheers!aty matters sorting it out after the fact.) (05Mar) Cheers!	2005-06-29
US	34036979	R27IOWALIAMVBQ	0140258795	803603230	Longitude: The True Story of a Lone Genius Who Solved the Greatest Scientific Problem of His Time	Books	4	15	18	N	N	Great story, but beware of factual liberties by author.	John Harrison completes his first pendulum clock in 1713 before the age of 20. He made the gears for this out of wood which was radical for such a use, but as a carpenter, perhaps not to him---which is a mark of genius, I'd say; to reach beyond accepted norms in this manner.  This he did after borrowing a book on math and the laws of motion; which he copied word for word, making his own copy.  He incorporated different varieties of wood into his clock for strenth and later invented a bi-metal pendulum to counteract the expansion and compression of various individual metals.  He also employed friction-free movements so as to do away with problematic lubricants.  When intrigued by the puzzle of time at sea and the issue of longitude he contemplated substituting something not prone to gravity, as a pendulum of course is, to track times passing.  In 1737 he creates a cantilevered clock 4 foot square. The \\"Longitude board\\" (which had offered a cash bonus to anyone who could devise a method in which time at sea could be kept) admired this prototype. Four years later he returns with an improved model; then starts on a 3rd model, like the previous two, also a fairly large sized clock. But there exists a problem within this book:  An artisan freemason by the name of John Jefferys at the Worshipful Company of clockmakers befriends Harrison and then later presents to him a pocket watch in 1753.  Then in 1755, while still working on his 3rd model, Harrison says this to the Longitude board:  I have...\\"good reason to think\\" on the basis of a watch \\"already executed that such small machines[he's referring to pocketwatches] may be of great service with respect to longitude.\\"  He then completes version 3 in 1759.  His fourth version appears just a year later, however, and is a 5 inch wide pocketwatch!  The obvious inference made by the author is that after he received the pocketwatch from Jeffreys he seemingly put his version #3 on the backburner and soon started on the pocketwatch 4th version.  The author does not claim Harrison copied anything from the Jeffreys model, but she certainly phrases this section so as to lend one to believe that this may have been the case; that Jefferys had a hand in the masterstroke invention Harrison eventually produced in version #4.  This is not true. Harrison commissioned the watch he received from Jeffreys and was based on Harrison's specifications.  It seems that Harrison simply asked Jeffreys to test an idea which he himself hadn't the time to attack just then; as he was still working on his 3rd version of a table-top prototype clock.  Hence Harrison's above statement to the board in 1755 whence his ideas were validated by Jeffreys.  In addition, the author plays up the part of the Astronomer Royal's part in attempting to impede Harrison from convincing the longitiude board of the efficacy of a time-piece solution to this problem over a celestial answer to this conundrum.  The author also jazzes up the issue of whether Harrison received the prize the board promised to pay for a successful solution herein; even though the board supported him for upwards of 20 years as he pursued this quest.  It's as if the author intentionally omitted some facts (that the Jefferys was a Harrison commission), and pumped up others (of a rival/foil on the board trying to impede Harrison and the  compensation issue; implying that Harrison was jipped) just to make the story more compelling. John Harrison's story, however, is extremely compelling as it is and didn't need this extra spice served up by the author.Do read this (very short) book on how this Mr. Harrison solved the problem of knowing where one is when at sea; and if you're in London, visit the Old Royal Observatory and the Clockmakers museum (in the Guildhall) where you can see Harrison's wonderful creations in person.  Enjoy!4th version.  The author does not claim Harrison copied anything from the Jeffreys model, but she certainly phrases this section so as to lend one to believe that this may have been the case; that Jefferys had a hand in the masterstroke invention Harrison eventually produced in version #4.  This is not true. Harrison commissioned the watch he received from Jeffreys and was based on Harrison's specifications.  It seems that Harrison simply asked Jeffreys to test an idea which he himself hadn't the time to attack just then; as he was still working on his 3rd version of a table-top prototype clock.  Hence Harrison's above statement to the board in 1755 whence his ideas were validated by Jeffreys.  In addition, the author plays up the part of the Astronomer Royal's part in attempting to impede Harrison from convincing the longitiude board of the efficacy of a time-piece solution to this problem over a celestial answer to this conundrum.  The author also jazzes up the issue of whether Harrison received the prize the board promised to pay for a successful solution herein; even though the board supported him for upwards of 20 years as he pursued this quest.  It's as if the author intentionally omitted some facts (that the Jefferys was a Harrison commission), and pumped up others (of a rival/foil on the board trying to impede Harrison and the  compensation issue; implying that Harrison was jipped) just to make the story more compelling. John Harrison's story, however, is extremely compelling as it is and didn't need this extra spice served up by the author.Do read this (very short) book on how this Mr. Harrison solved the problem of knowing where one is when at sea; and if you're in London, visit the Old Royal Observatory and the Clockmakers museum (in the Guildhall) where you can see Harrison's wonderful creations in person.  Enjoy!	2005-06-02
US	34036979	R1KHD0GG6B3K5R	0300103220	946010739	A Century of Violence in Soviet Russia	Books	3	16	20	N	N	Stalin wasn't the exception---Lenin too was murderous thug	\\"Impose mass terror immediately.\\" Such was Lenin's direction to officials in Nizhny Novgorod, dated 9 August 1918.  \\"Not a minutes delay...\\" he continued, \\"we must take all-out action: mass searches, executions for concealing weapons, mass deportation of Mensheviks and the unreliable.\\" This wasn't the only such order nor, states the author of this historical expose on Soviet Marxism, was it the first. In other words, \\"Stalinist excesses\\" (exposed by Khrushchev in his \\"secret speech\\"---behind closed doors to the Party) weren't an aberration, but the norm.  Lenin was not similarly castigated as that would have called into question the legitimacy of the Soviet regime itself; notwithstanding the author's view that Stalin was simply a student of his homicidal progenitor Lenin.  It was the notion that \\"within the country, the regime couldn't exist without grand political trials and permanent civil war.\\"  The \\"thaw\\" of Khushchev's years, moreover, didn't put an end to this violence toward the individual (obfuscated, in the Marxist tradition, by baseless communal indictments).  Well, so much for the history lesson.  You are, I presume, trying to decide whether or not to buy this book, aren't you? I, for one, got a copy because I wanted to see how Mr. Yakovlev (a senior advisor to Gorbachev and \\"the father of glasnost\\") viewed the Soviet Era.Just the fact that Mr. Yakovlev was in the audience when Khrushchev made the speech I referred to above, morover, made it worthwhile for me to read this book. But if you've read much on the brutality of the USSR this book is not going to tell you much that's especially new.  Mr. Yakovlev presents 238 pages of evidence damning the evils perpetrated by the USSR and Marxism, but the book is a bit laden with political-organization abbreviations and  names of victims (prominent individuals that to the casual reader will not be familiar).  So while I found it interesting I would hesitate to recommend this treatise to you unless you have read a number of books already on some aspects of Soviet history. It's just hard to absorb the enormity of the numbers involved herein.  Some examples: \\"In the Russian Federation alone, according to incomplete data,\\" Mr Yakovlev states, \\"the number of people sentenced between 1923 and 1953 total more than 41 million.\\" 41 MILLION! \\"More than 994,000 Soviet servicemen were sentenced during the war by military tribunals alone, and of this number more than 157,000 were sentenced to be shot.\\"  During the month of august 1922, 135,000 of 300,000 domestic letters were opened and examined, and \\"all 285,000 letters sent abroad had also been censored.\\"  5.5 million died of famine during the civil war and more than 5 million in the 1930s.  And such staggering numbers appear every few pages in this book. Soviet history---It's crazier than fiction. Cheers!number of books already on some aspects of Soviet history. It's just hard to absorb the enormity of the numbers involved herein.  Some examples: \\"In the Russian Federation alone, according to incomplete data,\\" Mr Yakovlev states, \\"the number of people sentenced between 1923 and 1953 total more than 41 million.\\" 41 MILLION! \\"More than 994,000 Soviet servicemen were sentenced during the war by military tribunals alone, and of this number more than 157,000 were sentenced to be shot.\\"  During the month of august 1922, 135,000 of 300,000 domestic letters were opened and examined, and \\"all 285,000 letters sent abroad had also been censored.\\"  5.5 million died of famine during the civil war and more than 5 million in the 1930s.  And such staggering numbers appear every few pages in this book. Soviet history---It's crazier than fiction. Cheers!	2005-05-30
US	34036979	RGEPXX23HB5KN	0684856794	293461229	The POLITICS OF BAD FAITH: The Radical Assault on America's Future	Books	3	12	16	N	N	Confessions of a Marxist turned Madisonian	\\"The tearing down of the Berlin wall marked the end of the modern epoch as surely as the fall of the Bastille marked its beginning two centuries ago.\\"  Adherents of ideologies of the left, however, are not as sure as the author herein; and that's the problem as Mr. Horowitz sees it.  How many \\"progressives\\" in good faith, he waxes, could bring themselves to sign the American Constitution today? The competing claims of the autonomy of the individual and human nature vs. collectivist ends and the inclination to try to remake human beings, unfortunately still exists; notwithstanding the utter failure of the Marxist experiment in dozens of attempts.  Mr. Horowitz is not totally surprised, however, defining---as he does---Marxism as a secular faith; a matter not of politics, but of self.  One chooses the \\"left\\". It's a matter of temperment and, as such, adherents are not easily swayed by factual evidence, however damning.  Besides, radicals attitudes do not derive from pragmatic considerations based on experience and/or extrapolation from the past anyway, but on expectations of the future.  Leftists thus, by inclination, ensconce themselves in ideological cul-de-sacs; as partisans of a cause that confirms their self-annointed humanity even as it denies humanity to those that oppose them.  Such people, the author concludes, are not seeking a new reality, but rather an old illusion; and comfort for their lives, self-exaltation above the fray of a society with which they themselves do not identify.  Mr. Horowitz admits that he himself was a victim of this inclinaton, taking on the cause of all the communities of the dispossessed in his youth; inculcated, as he was, into the radical Communist faith by his father. \\"It was only much later,\\" he adds,\\"that I came to realize that in becoming part of the Left I had really taken on the cause of no community at all.\\"  \\"This is the socialist delusion,\\" in his view, \\"the intoxicating fantasy that makes the socially alienated into political saviors.\\"  Pertinent herein and what makes this short treatise especially interesting is the author's highly personal (mammoth-lenth) pair of letters explaining to former comrades how he came to accept all of the above.  Many books are available which take issue with the \\"progressive left\\" in political society, but how many can offer you the insight from the inside, so to speak, of a one-time stalwart believer.  That's the benefit of this work and I recommend it (along with \\"Anti-Americanism\\" by Jean-Francois Revel and \\"Of paradise and Power\\" by Robert Kagan).  Cheers!tical saviors.\\"  Pertinent herein and what makes this short treatise especially interesting is the author's highly personal (mammoth-lenth) pair of letters explaining to former comrades how he came to accept all of the above.  Many books are available which take issue with the \\"progressive left\\" in political society, but how many can offer you the insight from the inside, so to speak, of a one-time stalwart believer.  That's the benefit of this work and I recommend it (along with \\"Anti-Americanism\\" by Jean-Francois Revel and \\"Of paradise and Power\\" by Robert Kagan).  Cheers!	2005-05-30
US	34036979	R2H9EY8K7MAYR9	0471679658	13256929	The Bomb in My Garden: The Secrets of Saddam's Nuclear Mastermind	Books	5	11	11	N	N	#66 Most wanted man in Iraq once, tells his story	\\"This is the man who will deliver the enriched uranium,\\" Hussein Kemal said to his father-in-law Saddam, nodding at Mahdi Obeidi.  \\"He has already made great strides.\\"  \\"In less than 3 years,\\" Dr. Obeidi writes in this book, \\"our staff of only 200 talented men and women had progressed from almost total ignorance of centrifuge technology to the successful enrichment of uranium and to the verge of large-scale production.\\"  How he accomplished this feat (beginning in 1988) is he story of \\"A Bomb in my Garden\\"; so entitled because of his hiding of a test centrifuge---the single most dangerous piece of nuclear technology---& detailed blueprints on its manufacture for over 12 years (buried in his backyard) while UN inspectors searched Iraq for just such proof that Saddam was a lot closer to acquiring a nuclear device than he was willing to conceed (an ability, moreover, he could reconstitute fairly rapidly when desired). Dr. Obeidi explains herein how centrifuges draw the heavier isotope uranium-238 from the lighter uranium-235 \\"in much the same way that water is drawn out of laundry in the spin cycle of a washing machine.\\"  In this way natural uranium---which contains less than 1% uranium-235---can be accumulated & progressively enriched until it reaches lethal quality (at over 90% purity).  Centrifuges, however, need to rotate at over 50,000 revolutions per minute to facilitate this process; an engineering miracle in of itself.  Only certain materials can bear the stress of such force and have to be manufactured to such precise tolerances that Dr. Obeidi sent dozens of his engineers & researchers to train undercover in the world's best institutes & high-tech companies once he was able to procure the requisite classified plans for such; as he (simultaneously) \\"put together a strategy for acquiring parts, materials, and know-how on the international black market.\\"  This he did in total secrecy, under direct command of Saddam Hussein's son-in-law.  \\"It is difficult to describe,\\" he writes, \\"the sense of total fear we lived under\\" trying to meet arbitrarily imposed deadlines from above---the penalty being prison and/or execution for failure.  It's an amazing story; and the details of meetings and events of interest are fascinating: details of meetings with Qusay Hussein & Saddam Hussein, being threatened by Saddam's son-in-law, watching Colin Powell address the UN on satellite televison, dodging American bombs during the invasion, wooing German & Swiss industrialists and scientists to provide classified materials & so on.  Once he even had to tear down half of his development facility---walls, floor, etc. and remove tons of topsoil surrounding it before UN inspectors---having surprised him by taking samples---would be expected to return once those samples (as he expected) tested positive for radiation.  If you are interested in the Iraq War, Saddam Hussein's dastardly doings---or need to be convinced of such, this is the book for you.  Even if you don't need convincing, this book is a rare glimpse into Iraq that you will read cover to cover with keen interest.  It is well written & hard to put down. Cheers!ribe,\\" he writes, \\"the sense of total fear we lived under\\" trying to meet arbitrarily imposed deadlines from above---the penalty being prison and/or execution for failure.  It's an amazing story; and the details of meetings and events of interest are fascinating: details of meetings with Qusay Hussein & Saddam Hussein, being threatened by Saddam's son-in-law, watching Colin Powell address the UN on satellite televison, dodging American bombs during the invasion, wooing German & Swiss industrialists and scientists to provide classified materials & so on.  Once he even had to tear down half of his development facility---walls, floor, etc. and remove tons of topsoil surrounding it before UN inspectors---having surprised him by taking samples---would be expected to return once those samples (as he expected) tested positive for radiation.  If you are interested in the Iraq War, Saddam Hussein's dastardly doings---or need to be convinced of such, this is the book for you.  Even if you don't need convincing, this book is a rare glimpse into Iraq that you will read cover to cover with keen interest.  It is well written & hard to put down. Cheers!	2005-05-29
US	34036979	RTW8L2R1PKSUT	0465092616	256532683	The Courage To Be Catholic: Crisis, Reform And The Future Of The Church	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Benedict XIV: Just what the Doctor (Weigel) hoped for	\\"Historically knowledgeable and realistic people can understand that clerical sexual corruption has been and always will be a problem in the church.  But there is no explaining the breadth of the corruption that was brought to public attention in the first half of 2002, or the lack of effective leadership from some bishops in responding to it, without taking full account of the invisible schism that the culture of dissent created in the Catholic Church in the US.\\"  That's why the elevation to pope of Cardinal Joseph Ratzinger (an event too recent to be included in this book) is an especially hopefull one (in the opinion of Catholics on the same page as Mr. Weigel) further reinforcing the fact that the crisis of 2002 was, in Mr. Weigel's view, \\"the last hurrah of the Catholic Lite Brigade.\\"  There's a reason why preistly \\"abuse seemed to be clustered in a period between the early 1960s and the late 1980s\\": that by that time and into the 90s the situation \\"had begun to be addressed, and rather effectively\\" by John Paul II, Mr. Weigel adds.  Ships of state & the like cannot swifty change their bearings, of course, but if John Paul II was successful at anything (besides helping to bring down communism), it was getting a handle on, & muting internal dissent; \\"against those who insist that there is a 'spirit of Vatican II' that somehow transcends the Council's texts and, indeed, trumps the settled tradition of the Catholic Church.\\"  The results of such \\"faithful dissent\\" became utterly apparent owing to the crisis of 2002 and the exposure of what had been going on for too long.  Such is Mr. Weigel's thesis; that while \\"some seminaries gained notoriety in the underground of Catholic chatter for their gay subcultures, which often included faculty members as well as students,\\" others within the church increasingly questioned all manners of church doctrine as the cultural ways of the 1960s & on affected the Church as well.  All this while many bishops came \\"to think of themselves primarily as conversation-moderating consensus builders and managers, rather than apostles.\\"  The latter situation, unfortunately still has not been addressed as effectively as have the seminaries, in Mr. Weigel's opinion.  Hence the atrocious handling of the crisis of 2002, as Cardinal Law, amongst others, put damage control on a higher plane than his apostolic responsibilities.  It didn't help matters either than John Paul II was hardly in a state of health in which to intercede more forcefully during this period.  So, that excuses the church?  No, it does not, Mr. Weigel argues, but rather than viewing the crisis of 2002 and its aftermath as a cataclysm, he sees it as an opportunity to complete that which John Paul II started in the 1980s: a return to fidelity; a return to the sanctity of vows for those priests wishing to remain such, and a return to roots; to not compromising on moral boundries or doctrine for the sake of consensus. Under John Paul II, who epitomised such, further reinforced by Cardinal Ratzinger's elevation as pope, the Catholic Church's message of late has been that the issue of the currently perceived notion of \\"modernity\\" is not something that the church ought simply surrender to, as \\"The Catholic Lite Brigade\\" proposes.  Times change, after all, and have a cyclical aspect to them in some regards as well.  The Vatican does not, consequently, have to compromise on issues such as homosexuality, abortion, and women priests just because \\"Cafeteria Catholics\\" had a great run under Pope Paul VI. It can wait out such storms. It's in it for the long run, after all. Moreover, do you really believe that say, older Europeans will flock back to the Church were it to become more \\"liberal\\"?  For their children, the ones who flocked to see John Paul II in person wherever he went & were ubiquitious at his funeral, however, the Church has more resonance---in spite of church doctrine? Or perhaps because the Church is stalwart on doctrinal boundries in aworld of seeming moral decay? God Bless.world of seeming moral decay? God Bless.	2005-05-22
US	34036979	R20VMJR5AO6PAW	1400062195	973983026	Free World: America, Europe, and the Surprising Future of the West	Books	3	7	15	N	N	"The future"---but without specifics how to get there.	\\"At the finishing line, the diplomacy of the Iraq crisis came down to a clash of two old European strategies, Gaullism and Churchillism.\\"  Mr. Garton Ash further posits that \\"1940 was the fulcrum of the 20th century.  For Churchill, the traumatic fall of France meant launching Britain on the only path that remained available to preserve its greatness: conjuring a special relationship with the US.  For de Gaulle, it meant launching a crusade to restore the greatness of France from the ashes of total defeat.\\"  So while it may be argued that \\"America is divided by a great argument about itself, Europe is divided by a great argument about America, which is, however, also a symptom of Europe trying to make sense of its own transformation.\\"  A condominium of sorts between France & Britain is what is called for, consequently, Mr. Garton Ash, a Brit, argues.  Otherwise the French will continue their (increasingly) rearguard action to promote France in the name of European integration. (In Frenchman Jean Monnet's words: \\"If you have a problem you cannot solve, enlarge the context.\\") And the only way he sees it coming together in sincere form would be by way of \\"a historic compromise\\" between Britain & its ancient enemy France.  I have to say that this book is rather informative and interesting up until around this point.  He doesn't, however, offer any ideas how such can be effected, nor does he see (what I think may be) the more likely outcome; namely, that Gaullism will wither to some extent once its generational proponents are ecclipsed by new modes of instinct and realism.  (A leading condender to be the next president of France, for instance---N. Sarkozy, is not 1/4 as viscerally resentful of America as Chirac.)  This is a balanced book, I will admit.  Mr. Garton Ash makes pointed criticisms (justifiable ones at times) of the USA, Britain, as well as France, but this book suffers from the same thing that many Europeans suffer from (as well as some liberal American democrats): the seeming inability or unwillingness to trust common ordinary people with not only the great issues of the day, but also the very fundamental ones as well.  Just look at the proposed (70,000 word!) EU constitution  & EU governments only---if at all---begrudgingly letting their citizens having an up-or-down vote on it; most EU governments having their parliaments decide on this.  (Can you imagine even a single constitutional AMENDMENT being passed simply on a vote in the US Senate without the states having a say?)  Relevent to my point herein, Garton Ash in addition wonders whether the EU ought be \\"encouraging the formation of an Arab Union, as the American's encouraged the formation of a European Union after 1945.\\"  But what would a union of dictatorships accomplish?  Wouldn't promoting democracy in Morocco, for instance, be a more accomplishable and desired end, first?  Why not make some incremental linkages with such countries in exchange for access to EU markets?  How about laying off the grandiose designs for a minute and doing something to lay the requisite foundations for such instead?  Another quote: \\"The recipe for human happiness is mysterious and cannot be purchased at Wal-Mart.\\"  Sounds dismissive of ordinary folk does it not?  Furthermore, he calls the habit of America changing most of its top civil servants every four years \\"peculiar\\"; as if having entrenched bureaucracies unresponsive to electoral developements are apparently more rational. How would anything in America ever even have a chance at changing were a new president not able to place its people in positions of influence? God forbid the \\"people\\" elect someone responsive to them. Oh, excuse me, I forgot, elitist Europeans are offended by any mention of anything of a spiritual nature---Man IS God, being their rejoinder; or rather, those men at the pinnacles of European society are: they have our interests at heart, let's listen to them.  And folks wonder why the USA & Europe don't see things similarly. Cheers! ****************************/hings similarly. Cheers! ****************************/	2005-05-21
US	34036979	R2WLEIEOY9GFUV	0060928239	490745306	The Quest for God: A Personal Pilgrimage	Books	3	2	10	N	N	Structured religion vs. identity-cause "new religions"	Johnson's belief comes down to this: \\"Conscience exists\\" and who else could have put it there but God? (p.3/66) \\"Without God death is horrific.\\" (p.32) With God, death can be seen to have meaning, a purpose, and a hope.  Humanists made their case against religion, peaking in the 1880s, offering an alternitive view.  Prometheans viewed belief in religion, in theological religion as the \\"enemy of mankind\\". (p.19)  Johnson states that environmentalism, racial politics, anti-globalization et al. are modern claimants herein; as alternitives to religion, filling the vacumn in the hearts and souls of the members of these movements left by the waning within themselves of formal religion. (p.84)  Society doesn't evince the restraints it once did as much anymore, consequently.  Johnson laments this, arguing that only structured religion can impose these restraints in human appetities. (p.23)  Persistance in prayer is the essence of supplication. (p.185)  That's why churches and their spires were so big and tall amidst peoples communities.  They were designed to instill awe in those same people as well as being erected to \\"show the glory of God\\". (p.75)  But toward what end?  Judism is about moral behavior too, the author admits, but since Jews reject Jesus he rejects their religion as an equel to his own.  He respects others religions, he says, but nevertheless is in favor of converting everyone to Catholicism.  People desire structure in their lives, Johnson states, but the Catholic church can only offer such structure if it adheres to strict historical religious doctrine: anti-abortion, maintaining celibacy for priests, etc.  Although this, at least in part, has accounted for its decline, paradoxically.  How to solve this conundrum, though, is not addressed by the author.  In the meantime a fair number of  people are embracing, in Johnson's view,  seemingly alternitive religions such as those existing under the banner of  anti-globalization, militant environmentalism, and other such causes.  It used to be that those individuals inclined toward such structure as offered by religious belief embraced fascism or marxism when conventional religions failed them in some way.  Now such individuals embrace crusades against globalization and/or in support of militant environmentalist causes.  Johnson acknowedges that fewer and fewer people in western countries practice their religion, but takes solace that \\"the number of those prepared to state their disbelief in God openly and specifically is minute.\\" (p.2)  It's as if people have had their thoughts of heaven stilled, in some measure,  while retaining some of the fear that hell was seemingly designed to instill in individuals.  Hence the attraction of utopian political systems, anti-globalization and militant environmentalist movements.  It's not particularly rational to embrace such, but then again neither is religious belief inherently rational.  But we have had increasingly more of the former (especially in Europe of late) owing to the perceived failure of ecclesiastical religion to remain as relevent as Mr. Johnson, among others, would desire it to be in our world of today. Thanks for considering my thoughts on this book.  God bless.other such causes.  It used to be that those individuals inclined toward such structure as offered by religious belief embraced fascism or marxism when conventional religions failed them in some way.  Now such individuals embrace crusades against globalization and/or in support of militant environmentalist causes.  Johnson acknowedges that fewer and fewer people in western countries practice their religion, but takes solace that \\"the number of those prepared to state their disbelief in God openly and specifically is minute.\\" (p.2)  It's as if people have had their thoughts of heaven stilled, in some measure,  while retaining some of the fear that hell was seemingly designed to instill in individuals.  Hence the attraction of utopian political systems, anti-globalization and militant environmentalist movements.  It's not particularly rational to embrace such, but then again neither is religious belief inherently rational.  But we have had increasingly more of the former (especially in Europe of late) owing to the perceived failure of ecclesiastical religion to remain as relevent as Mr. Johnson, among others, would desire it to be in our world of today. Thanks for considering my thoughts on this book.  God bless.	2005-05-14
US	34036979	R2HIFKUCJC4AMP	0684810271	634463914	The Conquerors: Roosevelt, Truman and the Destruction of Hitler's Germany, 1941-1945	Books	2	13	18	N	N	Not worth waiting four years for	Whittaker Chambers (a former operative in the American Communist party) spurred by the announcement of the Nazi-Soviet Pact, went to the assistant secretary of state Adolf Berle september 2, 1939 and told this gentleman details about Soviet agents operating within the US government.  This information FDR and/or the State department summarily dismissed. Meanwhile Alger Hiss, since proven to have been a Soviet source (amongst ohers named by Chambers) continued to operate; Hiss eventually accompanying FDR to Yalta!  In addition, Harry White at treasury, likewise having been documented to have been in cahoots with Soviet intelligence, worked as Secretary Morganthau's right-hand man in various positions.  Why am I telling you this?  Because Michael Beschloss waited 4 years before completing this book as he awaited various files to be de-classified.  Yet, after all this, including \\"Venona project\\" transcripts of deciphered Soviet cables and some release of Russian archiveal material pertinent herein, Beschloss barely addresses this issue.  He mentions White, but almost completely ignores the issue of his influence within the administration of FDR.  For instance, the draconian Morganthau plan to punish Germany after the war was heavily promoted by Harry White.  I wonder to what extent this may have been his inititive; and to what extent a Soviet asset within the US government was promoting a policy highly beneficial to the USSR.  Moreover, FDR's whole negoiating position must have been compromised by Hiss at Yalta, with Stalin knowing in advance what FDR was willing to give ground on.  Yet, Beschloss has nothing to say about Hiss or any of the other agents identified by Chambers.  Perhaps one can still make the case that FDR deftly handled the war, but with the Soviets knowing much of the behind the scenes activity within FDR's adminstration; coupled with FDR's inaction to hinder Hitler's extermination of Jews once this became known; with all the administrative chaos engineered by FDR to keep most of his advisors (including, unforgivably, Truman) in the dark or at odds with one another; with FDR's adoption of the Morganthau plan then his opposition to it; with all this, it's hard to make the case that FDR was an impeccable commander in chief.  Admittedly, it is easier if you ignore much of the above as Beschloss does.  He may have waited for various files to have become public, but he seems not to have taken any of their import into account, going along with his conclusions reached beforehand.  To boot, the subtitle of this book,\\" Roosevelt, Truman and the defeat of Hitler's Germany\\" is not particularly apt, as it was a Roosevelt operation in large measure; and, as indicated above, was one not without flaws either.  Contrary to some other Amazon reviewers, I do not see the point of reading this book.  One could do much better by choosing works more thorough in their treatment of this topic.  Light-hearted though it is, even \\"Franklin and Winston\\" by Jon Mecham is immeasurably better than this volume.  And if you want to read about Truman, I suggest David McCullough's excellent biography of that man from Missouri. (04oct) Cheerseered by FDR to keep most of his advisors (including, unforgivably, Truman) in the dark or at odds with one another; with FDR's adoption of the Morganthau plan then his opposition to it; with all this, it's hard to make the case that FDR was an impeccable commander in chief.  Admittedly, it is easier if you ignore much of the above as Beschloss does.  He may have waited for various files to have become public, but he seems not to have taken any of their import into account, going along with his conclusions reached beforehand.  To boot, the subtitle of this book,\\" Roosevelt, Truman and the defeat of Hitler's Germany\\" is not particularly apt, as it was a Roosevelt operation in large measure; and, as indicated above, was one not without flaws either.  Contrary to some other Amazon reviewers, I do not see the point of reading this book.  One could do much better by choosing works more thorough in their treatment of this topic.  Light-hearted though it is, even \\"Franklin and Winston\\" by Jon Mecham is immeasurably better than this volume.  And if you want to read about Truman, I suggest David McCullough's excellent biography of that man from Missouri. (04oct) Cheers	2005-04-30
US	34036979	R25VIJ8FYCEFKB	1893554856	45375245	Anti Americanism	Books	4	25	28	N	N	Anti-americanism is not a sign of American failure	Becoming American means accepting a set of ideas. Blood or origin are not relevent as they are in other societies.  It's a lot easier, consequently, to BECOME American than it is to become French, German, Russian, or whatever. By  emigrating to the USA and embracing American democratic liberalism one can become American; which peversely allows the USA to be rather more homogeneous than other nations; the Bush-Gore divide notwithstanding, Democrats and Republicans in the USA are far closer to one another, ESPECIALLY WHEN IN OFFICE, than the Democrats are even to Europe's social democrats and/or socialists. (By liberalism, incidentially, I mean the values of social mobility, free market capitalism and similar norms, not those synonymous with \\"Liberals\\" on the left of the political scale).  Liberalism is the antithesis of Socialism and, as such, are rival systems; with revolutionary socialism (i.e. communism) being an extreme expression of the latter.The difference between Europe and America is that between one continent which has not yet demonstrably embraced liberalism, continually dallying with socialism, and one which has thoroughly embraced liberalism.  A sizable proportion of the European populace (socialists, marxists,greens,as well as the far right) by definition, will thus incline toward Anti-Americanism. \\"The principle function of Anti-Americanism has always been and still is to discredit liberalism, as liberalism is synonymous wth Americanizaton.\\"(p.12) The 3 keys that have allowed the western world to eclipse the Chinese and Islamic worlds since the 16th century are science, democracy, and capitalism; and America has been besting Europe on these fronts for some time now.  Consequently, the \\"US fills a void caused by inadequacy not in European capabilities but in European thinking and their will to act.\\"(p.18)  This resentment of the USA, moreover, has risen since the fall of the USSR; and is the \\"result of widespread refusal to accept responsibilty for ones own actions.\\"(p.61)  \\"American unilateralism is the consequence---not the cause---of other nations' dimished power.\\"(p.62)  Islamic fundamentalists likewse blame America too, as even the Soviets did, not for failure, but for America's success. America certainly makes for a convenient scapegoat whence it has to intercede because of others inaction and/or failure.  If sanctions against Iraq were enforced across the board and were not, conversely, continually loosened with the aim to scraping them altogether, George W. Bush would not have had cause to finally lay down the gauntlet vis-a-vis that rogue state. The dozen+ Security Council resolutions demanding Saddam's compliance with an agreement he signed were not thought worthy of enforcement by many nations, however; hence the necessity of Bush's showdown. If Saddam had no WMDs all he had to do was give Hans Blix free rein to substantiate this possible fact.  (And if it turns out that he was bluffing about his possible capabilities that DOES NOT MAKE George W. Bush the bad guy herein.)  Continental Europe failed its former colonies in Africa whence some imploded; it failed many people in Bosnia and Kosovo; and it often failed, at a minimum, the collective psyche of the peoples of the Eastern Bloc, while castigating the USA morally as these castigators themselves relied on American protection vis-a-vis the Soviet Red army. Continental Europe even now longs for the EU to become a counterweight to the USA, but they are not willing to expend the capital to effect this possible outcome.  It's far easier to make this end a theoretical goal; as only symbolic steps are taken toward it, all the  while damning the USA for the disconnect between continental Europe's avoved capabilities and its achievements.  Such is the thesis of this book and makes for an interesting jumping off point for further study on the issue of anti-Americanism.  I also recommend the even shorter \\"Of Paradise and Power\\" by Robert Kagan as a useful follow-up to this introductory work. Consider George Weige/w-up to this introductory work. Consider George Weige/	2005-04-25
US	34036979	RJXAMM9QGLOD9	0974537616	164161415	A National Party No More: The Conscience of a Conservative Democrat	Books	3	29	34	N	N	Why can't reason, whenever espoused, be recognized as such?	Politics is amazing, isn't it? Here we have Zell Miller, the embodiment of a democratic party success story, whom many Democrats have called a lackey for Bush because he has had the audacity to criticize some aspects of the party to which he has devoted his career. Zell Miller was asked by Bill Clinton to deliver the keynote address at the 1992 Democratic convention. This man created a scholarship program that has made college free (thanks to earmarked lottery money) for the majority of residents of Georgia. Imagine a nationwide version of that! Yet, one doesn't hear about such proposals from the national democratic leadership. Why is that? According to Miller, in a general sense, it's because the national democratic party and regional/local chapters of it are not operating on the same wavelenth. He blames the primary process which, by focusing on Iowa and New Hampshire voters, favors candidates beholden to (or who pander to) big labor, among other special interest groups; hence, candidates Humphrey, McGovern, Mondale, and Dukakis. Any democrat looking to run for president one day has to keep these constituencies in mind and, seemingly, acts accordingly; hence Daschle, Harkin, Gephardt, etc. People in the south, Miller argues, don't expect a candidate to fully evince all of what they consider \\"the right values\\", but neither will they accept anyone who trivializes and/or goes out of their way to castigate what they believe in. Miller, thus, sees harm in democrats never taking issue with the far left wing of the party, the likes of Dean, Kucinich, J.Jackson and Sharpton, no matter what they may at times espouse. Only Clinton has had the boldness to do so (in response to a rap singer's inflammatory remarks, and in her presence). Such behavior, at least in part, explains why Clinton carried Tennessee and Gore couldn't, even though it was Gore's home state. If Gore had had the guts to, at least implicitly, acknowledge that Clinton's behavior vis-a-vis Monica was unbecoming he'd be president today (in this reviewer's opinion) instead of Bush. Herein lies the point of Miller's memoir/essay: He sees the problem being with well intentioned sorts of people who see so many shades of gray; who cannot distinguish black from white. Zell Miller knows America is better off with Saddam overthrown (and, in contrast to Howard Dean, that Saddam's capture was good news). He realizes that there is more to civilization than just comfortable self-preservation; that sometimes a short war must be fought to prevent a longer one (notwithstanding Hillary Clinton at the democratic convention 7/26/04 who championed the fact that her husband gave the USA 8 years of peace. And Jimmy Carter, likewise, who bemoaned America's failed committment to peace as if that was governments' highest priority.) To any naysayers who are fuming to themselves reading this, that the War in Iraq was elective in nature, I ask you to re-read the above. Reproachable behavior cannot be endlessly ignored. There comes a time when one has to say, \\"enough\\", and call out the offending party. The UN Security Council cast over a dozen binding resolutions against Saddams behavior; before giving him one last chance with resolution 1441 to live up to the obligations which he had previously entered into upon the cessation of hostilities after the Gulf War. Whether his WMDs were a bluff or not is beside the issue. He had the wherewithal to comply with the UN's directive and prevent a conflict. For whatever reason, he didn't avail himself of this opportunity. To summerize: This is Senator Miller's conscience calling out for change within his party.....before the word liberal becomes synonymous with democrat, and the national democratic party becomes a regional party bereft of a southern base, becoming simply a hodgepodge of special interest groups.(Incidentially this reviewer has cast ballots for  presidential candidates from both parties; ie., I'm not a hack and neither can Senator Miller be likewise dismissed as such.) (04Jul) Cheers!kewise dismissed as such.) (04Jul) Cheers!	2005-04-15
US	34036979	R2LYJ5KNITM5MK	1400053730	58683560	Preachers of Hate: Islam and the War on America	Books	3	8	18	N	N	Why the "New" anti-Semitism is an attack on America.	The \\"New\\" anti-Semitism, the author argues, is an attack not only on Jews , but on America as well.  Yes, there is a \\"conspiracy,\\" between America and The Jews, Mr. Timmerman acknowledges, but it's not the one that 'Preachers of Hate' see; rather, it's called \\"shared values, a common heritage,\\" and \\"tolerance of differences: a conspiracy of Freedom.\\"  the \\"absolute and transcendent nature of the concepts underpinning the American way of life,\\" the author argues, \\"are obvious and present a constant challenge to other peoples with competing (and less successful) ideologies.\\" \\"Today, hatred of America and of Western values is an ancient story that is little different from the virus that has erupted periodically into anti-Semitic pogroms in Europe and resulted in the Holocaust.  In one sense, the terrorits and their enablers in government [Middle Eastern as well as members of others further afield] and in the mosque are looking for someone to blame, a scapegoat. In the dictatorial and corrupt Arab world, in particular, \\"many young Arabs see nothing in their societies that appeals to their sense of pride other than the dreams of a glorious past.\\"  Anti-Americanism, to paraphrase Jean Francois Revel, is not a sign of increasing American failure, but of American SUCCESS---It is a reaction to complexity that folks can't account for (without looking in a mirror).  And it's no coincidence that those who evince anti-Semitic inclinations in Europe (and elsewhere) are also hostile to capitalism.  Have a gander at what Sweden's Socialist Prime Minister Olof Palme said in 1982; that it was painful to see pictures of Jewish children in WW2 concentration camps and now those of \\"Palestinian children, PERSECUTED in EXACTLY THE SAME WAY\\" (Emphasis added). \\"But this time it is Israel which is behind the outrages.\\" Obscure, irrelevent example you think?  What about Terje Roed-Larson, the architect of the Oslo Peace Process who was presented as an \\"honest broker,\\" notwithstanding his having called Israel guilty of \\"war crimes\\" as well as being a member of \\"The [Norwegian] Workers Communist Party (Marxist-Leninist) in the 1970s; to Israel's existance he once objected, publicly endorsing the PLO and its then expressed goal of eradicating Israel.  Of the 5 person Nobel Prize Committee that awarded Arafat & Peres a joint peace prize, one was a former Nazi and another a former leader of \\"The Labor Party Youth League [of Norway] when it adopted a resolution that called for the destruction! of the Israeli state.  These 2 folks ensured that Peres wouldn't get the prize without Arafat getting it too.  No, Ariel Sharon is not above criticism, incidentially, but it's another thing to equate him with Hitler and the Israelis with Nazis; which the author shows is amazingly not uncommon in Europe.  And all the while this went on until Arafat's death, the PLO leader was beyond reproach for the most part, even as he presided---thanks to the Oslo process---over a corrupt administration in Gaza, continued to condone terroristic acts, and continued to deal in arms, and violate what assurances he gave as part of the deal with Israel.  Low & behold, now that he is gone, progress is being made between the Palestinians and Israel; yet were Arafat still alive it wouldn't have been likely & Europe would have continued to support him as he spoke of peace and acted with an eye otherwise.  It's amazing how much support they gave that man & castigated President Bush when Mr. Bush called for more democratic, less corrupt, Palestinian leadership.  Hopefully, 'The Preachers of Hate' are on the run now.  Let's hope so, at least; & if you need convincing that Middle Eastern majorities & signiificant minorities in Europe and the USA exist that are anti Western-values and evince such, in part, by their anti-Semitism, then have a look at this book by Mr. Timmerman. (05Mar) Cheers!ng called Israel guilty of \\"war crimes\\" as well as being a member of \\"The [Norwegian] Workers Communist Party (Marxist-Leninist) in the 1970s; to Israel's existance he once objected, publicly endorsing the PLO and its then expressed goal of eradicating Israel.  Of the 5 person Nobel Prize Committee that awarded Arafat & Peres a joint peace prize, one was a former Nazi and another a former leader of \\"The Labor Party Youth League [of Norway] when it adopted a resolution that called for the destruction! of the Israeli state.  These 2 folks ensured that Peres wouldn't get the prize without Arafat getting it too.  No, Ariel Sharon is not above criticism, incidentially, but it's another thing to equate him with Hitler and the Israelis with Nazis; which the author shows is amazingly not uncommon in Europe.  And all the while this went on until Arafat's death, the PLO leader was beyond reproach for the most part, even as he presided---thanks to the Oslo process---over a corrupt administration in Gaza, continued to condone terroristic acts, and continued to deal in arms, and violate what assurances he gave as part of the deal with Israel.  Low & behold, now that he is gone, progress is being made between the Palestinians and Israel; yet were Arafat still alive it wouldn't have been likely & Europe would have continued to support him as he spoke of peace and acted with an eye otherwise.  It's amazing how much support they gave that man & castigated President Bush when Mr. Bush called for more democratic, less corrupt, Palestinian leadership.  Hopefully, 'The Preachers of Hate' are on the run now.  Let's hope so, at least; & if you need convincing that Middle Eastern majorities & signiificant minorities in Europe and the USA exist that are anti Western-values and evince such, in part, by their anti-Semitism, then have a look at this book by Mr. Timmerman. (05Mar) Cheers!	2005-03-13
US	34036979	RBQWR7B3GC7SX	0700613293	429639637	Recovering the Past: A Historian's Memoir	Books	3	10	17	N	N	The state of history as a disapline over the 20th century	Recovering the Past.  It's a great title, isn't it?  And who better to speak about such than an accomplished historian.  ...\\"[W]hen we think historically,\\" Forrest MacDonald writes, \\"we try to understand past events and circumstances as the participants did.\\"  Unfortunately, all others in his field are not similarly inclined.  The problem lies with subjectivism-relativism-presentism; the idea that some within each generation simply have (to paraphase the author) the right to perceive the past in accordance with the changing preoccupations of changing times.  We see this now in the news all the time.  As elites become more secular, for instance, the past is increasingly re-interpreted within a framework that is hostile to religious beliefs.  But what of the facts? What of the spiritual groundings of America's Founding Fathers? What of the fact that America was populated by those seeking religious freedom?  Such \\"details\\" don't concern New Left \\"historians.\\"  Such are not historians at all, actually; but agenda promoters who seek to \\"arrange the facts of history as to influence the present or future in the direction that [they] consider socially desirable.\\"  Hence we have historians (the likes of Mr. MacDonald, David McCullough, Richard Pipes---who also has a memoir out, incidentally) and we have anti-capitalist substantiators (think Eric Hobsbawn, Charles Beard, Howard Zinn, et al.).  Some of these, of course, are less anti-capitalist than just economically illiterate; seeing in their \\"utterly unsophisticated conception of economic activity...the exploitation by the wealthy of the poor, laborers, farmers, and small businesmen\\"; rather than \\"entrepreneurship, ingenuity, luck and hard work\\" as the creators of wealth.  It's ironic, isn't it, that so many of such folks who see exploitation as the driving force of economics are usually those most removed from the business world and/or have the least entrepreneural instincts themselves. (Successful European-born business folks such as George Soros et al. are in another category all together.)  McDonald quotes Thomas Jefferson: \\"Those who labor in the earth are God's chosen people.\\"  The only inconsistancy is that Jefferson never worked land himself.  How McDonald got the commission to write Jefferson's story in The University of Kansas' Presidential Histories series is instructive herein: He got it because all university Jefferson scholars, being Jeffersonians, \\"did not wish to touch the presidency because Jefferson was by no means a Jeffersonian president.\\"  So much for intellectual honesty.  Such experiences of Professor McDonald make up much of the second half of this memoir; the first half being devoted to how he came to realize the above points---that all historians are not equel to the title.  It's a short read (166 main pages), particularly the latter half.  My only complaint is that I wish he would have carried forth his far more densely argued first half of this memoir to a greater level, as opposed to getting rather chatty later on.  Hence my rating as indicated above. (P.S. Forrest McDonald appeared on C-SPAN's \\"In depth\\" show; a 3 hour give-and-take discussion on his career/scholarship in 2004.  It's available (& free) for watching on your computer, I believe.  Explore BOOKTV.ORG for it.) (05Mar) Cheers!olks such as George Soros et al. are in another category all together.)  McDonald quotes Thomas Jefferson: \\"Those who labor in the earth are God's chosen people.\\"  The only inconsistancy is that Jefferson never worked land himself.  How McDonald got the commission to write Jefferson's story in The University of Kansas' Presidential Histories series is instructive herein: He got it because all university Jefferson scholars, being Jeffersonians, \\"did not wish to touch the presidency because Jefferson was by no means a Jeffersonian president.\\"  So much for intellectual honesty.  Such experiences of Professor McDonald make up much of the second half of this memoir; the first half being devoted to how he came to realize the above points---that all historians are not equel to the title.  It's a short read (166 main pages), particularly the latter half.  My only complaint is that I wish he would have carried forth his far more densely argued first half of this memoir to a greater level, as opposed to getting rather chatty later on.  Hence my rating as indicated above. (P.S. Forrest McDonald appeared on C-SPAN's \\"In depth\\" show; a 3 hour give-and-take discussion on his career/scholarship in 2004.  It's available (& free) for watching on your computer, I believe.  Explore BOOKTV.ORG for it.) (05Mar) Cheers!	2005-03-07
US	34036979	RHY344YA1XK01	0060744944	433232540	Saddam: King of Terror	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Saddam on Stalin:  "I like the way he governed his country."	\\"[I]mmediately after the 1968 revolution he [Saddam] had been regarded by many Baathists as the 'weakest link' in the party.\\"  Funny, that's just what the Bolsheviks said about Stalin while Lenin, Trotsky, Bukharin, et al.  consolidated power in the Soviet Union.  Over the next 5 years Saddam spent his time, in his words, \\"dealing with the jackals.\\"  Like Stalin, he was mightily successful too; for during this period \\"he had eradicated all his main rivals, be they friend or foe, and had nuetralized the factions hostile to the Baath government, such as the Kurds and the Shiites.\\"  This catapulted him into position as the most powerful man in Iraq below President Bakr, having just engineered Iraq's nationalization of foreign oil interests in the country; a gambit made possible by Valery Giscard d'Estaing (then French trade minister, later to become French president) who assured Saddam that France would not join in a threatened Western governmental boycott of future Iraqi oil exports, IF FRENCH INTERESTS WERE NOT HARMED.  3 years later France agrees to sell Iraq a nuclear reactor. Said Saddam publicly at the time: \\"The agreement with France is the first concrete step toward production of the Arab atomic bomb.\\"  Concurrently, at this time Saddam buys Iran off from their support of Kurdish resistance efforts by acknowledging Iran's rights over the Shatt al-Arab waterway separating their two countries.  5 years later, upon the overthrow of the Shah of Iran, Saddam renounces this agreement (now that the Kurds have been pacified) and invades Iran on september 22, 1980.  Iran, in an initial response, fails in an attempt to bomb Iraq's al Tuwaitha---not yet active---nuclear site; the same site Israel, in june of 1981, successfully hits just days before it was scheduled to go Hot.  In 1982, while Israel is taking a pounding from guerillas in Southern Lebanon, Abu Nidal---then headquartered in Iraq---engineers a hit on the Israeli ambassador in London.  The assassination attempt fails, but provokes Israel to show strenth & deal with their border by invading Lebanon.  Saddam immediately call for a cease-fire with Iran so as to join forces against the greater evil; ie., \\"Jewish imperialism.\\" To which Ayatollah Khomeini says, if effect, Go fish; dismissing outright the idea of a cease-fire, now that Iran seemingly has the upper hand militarily.  Just maybe, people are beginning to think that Iraq may be on the ropes; that a fanatical Islamic Iran just may subdue its much smaller neighbor Iraq.  This in quick succession from the American hostage debacle that cost Jimmy Carter his presidency & the mass bombing murder (in early 1983) of U.S. Marines in Beirut on Khomeini's orders.  In the context of the time, thus, must be seen President Reagan's sending of Donald Rumsfeld to Baghdad in 1984 to guard against a decisive victory by Iran against Iraq. (To all the moralist naysayers, remember that in his efforts to stop Hitler at all costs FDR too aided unsavory Joseph Stalin---who deliberately starved and/or had murdered over 5 million of his own people just previous in the 1930s. U.S efforts in support of Saddam, moreover, were nowhere on such a scale either.) So Saddam fights on until he exhausts Iran; getting his cease-fire (july 1988) after 8 years of war.  Virtually bankrupted, with 50% of his oil revenues going to service an $80 Billion! war debt, Saddam instead decides to expropriate Kuwait's wealth & just up and invades it 23 months later.  In the cease-fire agreement with U.S.-led UN forces the following year Saddam gives his word to renounce his chemical/biological/nuclear programs and provide a complete accounting for such.  Thence 12 years of stonewalling later George W. Bush \\"rushed to war.\\"  How coincidental that \\"Saddam\\" in arabic means \\"the one who confronts\\"; so, well done Mr. Coughlin, in categorizing such. (05Feb) Cheers!t fails, but provokes Israel to show strenth & deal with their border by invading Lebanon.  Saddam immediately call for a cease-fire with Iran so as to join forces against the greater evil; ie., \\"Jewish imperialism.\\" To which Ayatollah Khomeini says, if effect, Go fish; dismissing outright the idea of a cease-fire, now that Iran seemingly has the upper hand militarily.  Just maybe, people are beginning to think that Iraq may be on the ropes; that a fanatical Islamic Iran just may subdue its much smaller neighbor Iraq.  This in quick succession from the American hostage debacle that cost Jimmy Carter his presidency & the mass bombing murder (in early 1983) of U.S. Marines in Beirut on Khomeini's orders.  In the context of the time, thus, must be seen President Reagan's sending of Donald Rumsfeld to Baghdad in 1984 to guard against a decisive victory by Iran against Iraq. (To all the moralist naysayers, remember that in his efforts to stop Hitler at all costs FDR too aided unsavory Joseph Stalin---who deliberately starved and/or had murdered over 5 million of his own people just previous in the 1930s. U.S efforts in support of Saddam, moreover, were nowhere on such a scale either.) So Saddam fights on until he exhausts Iran; getting his cease-fire (july 1988) after 8 years of war.  Virtually bankrupted, with 50% of his oil revenues going to service an $80 Billion! war debt, Saddam instead decides to expropriate Kuwait's wealth & just up and invades it 23 months later.  In the cease-fire agreement with U.S.-led UN forces the following year Saddam gives his word to renounce his chemical/biological/nuclear programs and provide a complete accounting for such.  Thence 12 years of stonewalling later George W. Bush \\"rushed to war.\\"   How coincidental that \\"Saddam\\" in arabic means \\"the one who confronts\\"; so, well done Mr. Coughlin, in categorizing such. (05Feb) Cheers!	2005-02-22
US	34036979	R26RKKZX2Q4IUY	0802775934	803603230	The Illustrated Longitude: The True Story of a Lone Genius Who Solved the Greatest Scientific Problem of His Time	Books	4	15	17	N	N	Great story,  but beware of inaccuracies within this book.	John Harrison completed his first pendulum clock in 1713 before the age of 20. He made the gears for this out of wood which was radical for such a use, but as a carpenter, perhaps not to him---which is a mark of genius, I'd say; to reach beyond accepted norms in this manner.  This he did after borrowing a book on math and the laws of motion; which he copied word for word, making his own copy.  He incorporated different varieties of wood into his clock for strenth and later invented a bi-metal pendulum to counteract the expansion and compression of various individual metals.  He also employed friction-free movements so as to do away with problematic lubricants.  When intrigued by the puzzle of time at sea and the issue of longitude he contemplated substituting something not prone to gravity, as a pendulum of course is, to track times passing.  In 1737 he created a cantilevered clock 4 foot square.  The longitude board (which had offered a cash bonus to anyone who could devise a method in which time at sea could be kept) admired this creation of Harrison's.  Four years later he returned with an improved model; then he started on a 3rd model, like the previous two, also a fairly large sized clock.  But there exists a problem within this book:  An artisan freemason by the name of John Jefferys at the Worshipful Company of clockmakers befriended Harrison and then later presented to him a pocket watch in 1753.  Then in 1755, while still working on his 3rd model, Harrison says this to the Longitude board:  I have...\\"good reason to think\\" on the basis of a watch \\"already executed that such small machines [he's referring to pocketwatches] may be of great service with respect to longitude.\\"  He then completed version 3 in 1759.  His fourth version appears just a year later, however, and is a 5 inch wide pocketwatch!  The obvious inference made by the author is that after he received the pocketwatch from Jeffreys he seemingly put his version #3 on the backburner and soon started on the pocketwatch 4th version.  The author does not claim Harrison copied anything from the Jeffreys model, but she certainly phrases this section so as to lend one to believe that this may have been the case; that Jefferys had a hand in the masterstroke invention Harrison eventually produced in version #4.  This is not true. Harrison commissioned the watch he received from Jeffreys and was based on Harrison's specifications.  It seems that Harrison simply asked Jeffreys to test an idea which he himself hadn't the time to attack just then; as he was still working on his 3rd version of a table-top prototype clock.  Hence Harrison's above statement to the board in 1755 whence his ideas were validated by Jeffreys.  In addition, the author plays up the part of the Astronomer Royal's part in attempting to impede Harrison from convincing the longitiude board of the efficacy of a time-piece solution to this problem over a celestial answer to this conundrum.  The author also jazzes up the issue of whether Harrison received the prize the board promised to pay for a successful solution herein; even though the board supported him for upwards of 20 years as he pursued this quest.  It's as if the author intentionally omitted some facts (that the Jefferys was a Harrison commission), and pumped up others (of a rival/foil on the board trying to impede Harrison and the  compensation issue; implying that Harrison was jipped) just to make the story more compelling. John Harrison's story, however, is extremely compelling as it is and didn't need this extra spice served up by the author.Do read this (very short) book on how this Mr. Harrison solved the problem of knowing where one is when at sea; and if you're in London, visit the Old Royal Observatory and the Clockmakers museum (in the Guildhall) where you can see Harrison's wonderful creations in person.  Enjoy!ted on the pocketwatch 4th version.  The author does not claim Harrison copied anything from the Jeffreys model, but she certainly phrases this section so as to lend one to believe that this may have been the case; that Jefferys had a hand in the masterstroke invention Harrison eventually produced in version #4.  This is not true. Harrison commissioned the watch he received from Jeffreys and was based on Harrison's specifications.  It seems that Harrison simply asked Jeffreys to test an idea which he himself hadn't the time to attack just then; as he was still working on his 3rd version of a table-top prototype clock.  Hence Harrison's above statement to the board in 1755 whence his ideas were validated by Jeffreys.  In addition, the author plays up the part of the Astronomer Royal's part in attempting to impede Harrison from convincing the longitiude board of the efficacy of a time-piece solution to this problem over a celestial answer to this conundrum.  The author also jazzes up the issue of whether Harrison received the prize the board promised to pay for a successful solution herein; even though the board supported him for upwards of 20 years as he pursued this quest.  It's as if the author intentionally omitted some facts (that the Jefferys was a Harrison commission), and pumped up others (of a rival/foil on the board trying to impede Harrison and the  compensation issue; implying that Harrison was jipped) just to make the story more compelling. John Harrison's story, however, is extremely compelling as it is and didn't need this extra spice served up by the author.Do read this (very short) book on how this Mr. Harrison solved the problem of knowing where one is when at sea; and if you're in London, visit the Old Royal Observatory and the Clockmakers museum (in the Guildhall) where you can see Harrison's wonderful creations in person.  Enjoy!	2005-02-22
US	34036979	R2YXWY97ZQNC42	0788151789	864024119	Ten Years That Shook the World: The Gorbachev Era As Witnessed by His Chief of Staff	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Gorbachev---the man who never really knew what he wanted.	Boldin says of the Sovet economy: \\"It might be hard to believe, but at the time [1985] nobody knew in concrete terms what needed to be done.  \\"We had entered a period of confusing and half-baked theorizing...\\" & \\"The entire system of government still reflected the demands of the wartime economy and the postwar reconstruction effort...\\"  Enter Gorbachev, but he hadn't a clue, Boldin argues, on how to translate admonitions to be more efficient into reality.  Yes, Boldin comes across as an imperialist himself; resentful of Gorbachev for the loss of face that the latter's Glasnost policy had on the appearance of Soviet greatness, but that doesn't make ALL Boldin's criticisms of Gorbachev invalid as the reviews above suggest.  Gorbachev---in response to Reagan's challenging buildup & with an eye towards catching up economically/technologically---decided to effect a weakening of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union, thinking that the party was preventing evolutionary change.  But you can't attempt to force feed a system change at the same time as you are weakening the mechanisms through which action was effected in the USSR.  Notice how the Chinese are doing the complete opposite of Gorbachev to save their \\"Communist\\" (increasingly less red) governmental system.  Gorbachev disgraced the party, the history of the USSR (through Glasnost's revelations) while still claiming legitimacy to rule; all the while as he tried to bring others into the system---through the Congress of People's Deputies, for instance.  But he had no popular support/mandate to draw upon.  He needed to be directly elected to accomplish the above; as Yeltsin's example showed.  Because Gorbachev failed to see this, Yeltsin ran away with the mantle of legitimacy.  So, yes, Boldin wasn't happy with Gorbachev, but Gorbachev still blew the hand he was dealt & the details of some of this are detailed in this book.  Seemingly the above reviewers lament Gorbachev's passing from the political scene---a view, in my opinion totally misplaced.  If anyone stood up for Russians---for humane change in the Soviet Union, it was Yelsin, not Gorbachev.  Boldin, being in a 3rd category himself, nevertheless does have some interesting things to say herein.  Ignore the characterization of Adam Ulam's words above, & let me quote this esteemed professor of Russian politics in his (masterful, 17 page) introduction himself: \\"But for all of the author's prejudices, the book offers us an invaluable insight into the atmosphere attending the last days of what was not only a mighty empire but a vast, unprecedented experiment at remaking history and changing the world.\\" Cheers!n my opinion totally misplaced.  If anyone stood up for Russians---for humane change in the Soviet Union, it was Yelsin, not Gorbachev.  Boldin, being in a 3rd category himself, nevertheless does have some interesting things to say herein.  Ignore the characterization of Adam Ulam's words above, & let me quote this esteemed professor of Russian politics in his (masterful, 17 page) introduction himself: \\"But for all of the author's prejudices, the book offers us an invaluable insight into the atmosphere attending the last days of what was not only a mighty empire but a vast, unprecedented experiment at remaking history and changing the world.\\" Cheers!	2005-02-07
US	34036979	R3946TPZM3Q2AK	0060582626	474910265	Thirty Days: An Inside Account of Tony Blair at War	Books	3	1	1	N	N	"I want to end with 'God Bless You'," says the PM	\\"It's all very well being a pacifist, but to be a pacifist after september 11, that's something different.\\"  So says Tony Blair early in this behind-the-scenes look at the office of the British Prime Minister during 4 crucial weeks in march & april of 2003.  During this time journalist Peter Stothard follows Mr. Blair to several important summit venues: Brussels for the EU, the Azores for the coalition-of-the-willing vis-a-vis Iraq, Camp David, &  Belfast.  We are also treated to some of what went on behind closed doors as Mr. Blair submitted his Iraq policy to an up-or-down vote in the House of Commons; which, had he lost, would have necessitated his resignation.  That said, this journalistic book is more an agglomeration of snapshots than an accomplished whole.  We learn what everyone already knew: that Blair was standing shoulder to shoulder with President Bush over Iraq on principle---Blair's religious side apparent here as well; & because it was in Britain's interest to do so; that the British were far more keen on the UN than Washington; that Mr. Blair relied heavily on his advisor Alastair Campbell, etc.  In short, most of this book should already be known to anyone who followed British politics avidly on television and in serious newspapers either at the time and/or since.  The value of this book, thus, lies more in the not-so-noteworthy incidental happenings obscured from public view that provide \\"color\\"---ie., personalize the individuals herein.  Hence, we are treated to numerous occurrences the likes of this: Blair's convoy outside of his Downing Street residence starts off & then abruptly stops. \\"'He's forgotten his glasses.' 'Where are they?'\\" an aide in Number 10 asks another aide in the motorcade. \\"'Somewhere in the den,' she repeats the reply.  She pushes open the door, but Jack Straw is already back on the Number 10 front step.  Before there is time to ponder whether Lord Carrington would ever have left his car to fetch Margaret Thatcher's glasses, or whether Douglas Hurd would have made the same leap for John Major, Tony Blair's Foreign Secretary is back in the street with the trophy in his hand.\\"  Yes, such asides are interesting to characterize personalities and such, but when too numerous to count, can become as satisfying as several appetizers in lieu of dinner. Mind you, I didn't dislike this book.  It is a very short read and has its moments.  I'm just stating that it isn't as substancial as the above editorials make it out to be.  I read its 234 pages in something over 6 hours over two days & enjoyed it.  The most interesting thing about the book, I think, was that Mr. Blair wanted to end an important address to the British people---as he committed British forces into combat---with \\"God Bless You\\" but his advisors dissuaded him from doing so. I present to you the exchange: \\"'That's not a good idea.' 'Oh no?' says the Prime Minister, raising his voice.  To which they respond, 'You're talking to lots of people who don't want chaplains pushing stuff down their throats.' 'You are the most ungodly lot I have ever...' Tony Blair's words fade away into the make-up artist's flannel.  'Ungodly? Count me out,' complains speechwriter Peter Hyman, who is Jewish and whose plum-coloured neck wound is throbbing hard.  'That's not the same God,' the protesters insist.  'It is the same God,' says the Prime Minister, scribbling fiercely on his text\\" (pp. 106-107).  The author ends the book by saying of Mr. Blair, \\"but he has changed in the past 30 days\\"---ie., since the author began to observe him in close quarters, but he is rather vague throughout this book exactly how.  Nevertheless, I enjoyed the read & can recommend this book as part of a multi-volume study of Mr. Blair and/or the Iraq War. Cheers!or whether Douglas Hurd would have made the same leap for John Major, Tony Blair's Foreign Secretary is back in the street with the trophy in his hand.\\"  Yes, such asides are interesting to characterize personalities and such, but when too numerous to count, can become as satisfying as several appetizers in lieu of dinner. Mind you, I didn't dislike this book.  It is a very short read and has its moments.  I'm just stating that it isn't as substancial as the above editorials make it out to be.  I read its 234 pages in something over 6 hours over two days & enjoyed it.  The most interesting thing about the book, I think, was that Mr. Blair wanted to end an important address to the British people---as he committed British forces into combat---with \\"God Bless You\\" but his advisors dissuaded him from doing so. I present to you the exchange: \\"'That's not a good idea.' 'Oh no?' says the Prime Minister, raising his voice.  To which they respond, 'You're talking to lots of people who don't want chaplains pushing stuff down their throats.' 'You are the most ungodly lot I have ever...' Tony Blair's words fade away into the make-up artist's flannel.  'Ungodly? Count me out,' complains speechwriter Peter Hyman, who is Jewish and whose plum-coloured neck wound is throbbing hard.  'That's not the same God,' the protesters insist.  'It is the same God,' says the Prime Minister, scribbling fiercely on his text\\" (pp. 106-107).  The author ends the book by saying of Mr. Blair, \\"but he has changed in the past 30 days\\"---ie., since the author began to observe him in close quarters, but he is rather vague throughout this book exactly how.  Nevertheless, I enjoyed the read & can recommend this book as part of a multi-volume study of Mr. Blair and/or the Iraq War. Cheers!	2005-01-02
US	34036979	R16KNARY96KVXU	1586482165	20105947	Allies: The U. S., Britain, Europe, And The War in Iraq	Books	3	4	4	N	Y	Concise summary of Franco-American disunity over Iraq	First of all, the cover of this book as well as its title are both misleading.  This book isn't just about relations between Tony Blair and George Bush per se.  It is broader than that, encompassing relations amongst the big 4 allies, actually: Germany, France, Britain & the USA---pretty much ignoring Italy, Turkey, and other NATO allies.  A more accurate title of this book would have been entitled something like: \\"The Collapse of Consensus: Euro-American Relations & the War in Iraq.\\"  There's nothing new in this book, however, but it does provide a rather concise summary of how heretofore Allied consensus ran aground over the shoals of whether to employ force against Saddam Hussein or not.  Most involved were of the opinion, after all, that Saddam was a brutal dictator and that he was bucking the authority of the United Nations.  Some just refused to countenance the use of force to do anything about it.  A little history: UN Resolution #678 was adopted in 1990 authorizing all member states \\"to use all necessary means\\" to enforce the removal of Saddam's army from Kuwait \\"and to restore international peace and security in the area.\\"  Once such was accomplished, Saddam formally accepted ceasefire terms---codified under UN Resolution #687 in 1991---that he unconditionally give up all his chemical & biological weapons capability/stocks/development.  Quoting Mr. Shawcross: \\"In March 2003, not one of the fifteen members [of the UN Security Council] doubted that Iraq was still in breach of all the relevant, binding Council resolutions since 678.\\" (Incidentially, the word \\"binding\\" herein refers to the fact that Security Council resolutions are enforceable, unlike General Assembly resolutions---against Israel, for instance---which are purely political & NOT binding.  So the double standard some see herein is but a canard.)  Back to the above, it is not just the author's opinion that everyone was in agreement.  You have only to consult the unanimously adopted Resolution 1441 (November 9, 2002) which threatened \\"serious consequences\\" for Iraq if it did not utilize this one last chance.  France & Germany both voted for this resolution & 4 months later both continued to caution against calling \\"time's up\\" for Iraq to fully comply.  French Foreign Minister Dominique De Villepin argued that \\"Everyone is faced with the choice of disarming Saddam Hussein peacefully or by force.\\"  To which, said Jack Straw, his British counterpart: \\"Dominique, that's a false choice.  The choice, Dominique, is not ours as to how this disarmament takes place.  The choice is Saddam Hussein's.\\"  A little more time, and a little more time, and a little more time, of course, accounted for the fact that Saddam had strung out the UN over this for over a decade up to this point.  Listen to this view: \\"If we fail to respond today, Saddam, and all those who would follow in his footsteps, will be emboldened tomorrow by the knowledge that they can act with impunity, even in the face of a clear message from the United Nations Security Council, and clear evidence of a weapons of mass destruction program.\\"  So said Bill Clinton in 1998.  Unfortunately it took September 11th to bring this issue to a head---and not because Saddam hard a hand therein, but because such made it then too dangerous a gamble anymore to let Saddam's unrenounced desire to use and/or develope---or transfer---chemical, biological, and/or nuclear weapons.  September 11, you could consequently say, allowed the neoconservative view of pre-emption to gain traction; being expressed by the likes of Tony Blair, Jack Straw, & George Bush, as well by leaders in Italy, Spain, Poland, Denmark, Australia, Bulgaria, Portugal, Holland, et al.  Others, of course, preferrred the status quo, believing  that September 10th thinking was still supportable in a post 9/11 world.  Thanks for reading my review.  Cheers!(November 9, 2002) which threatened \\"serious consequences\\" for Iraq if it did not utilize this one last chance.  France & Germany both voted for this resolution & 4 months later both continued to caution against calling \\"time's up\\" for Iraq to fully comply.  French Foreign Minister Dominique De Villepin argued that \\"Everyone is faced with the choice of disarming Saddam Hussein peacefully or by force.\\"  To which, said Jack Straw, his British counterpart: \\"Dominique, that's a false choice.  The choice, Dominique, is not ours as to how this disarmament takes place.  The choice is Saddam Hussein's.\\"  A little more time, and a little more time, and a little more time, of course, accounted for the fact that Saddam had strung out the UN over this for over a decade up to this point.  Listen to this view: \\"If we fail to respond today, Saddam, and all those who would follow in his footsteps, will be emboldened tomorrow by the knowledge that they can act with impunity, even in the face of a clear message from the United Nations Security Council, and clear evidence of a weapons of mass destruction program.\\"  So said Bill Clinton in 1998.  Unfortunately it took September 11th to bring this issue to a head---and not because Saddam hard a hand therein, but because such made it then too dangerous a gamble anymore to let Saddam's unrenounced desire to use and/or develope---or transfer---chemical, biological, and/or nuclear weapons.  September 11, you could consequently say, allowed the neoconservative view of pre-emption to gain traction; being expressed by the likes of Tony Blair, Jack Straw, & George Bush, as well by leaders in Italy, Spain, Poland, Denmark, Australia, Bulgaria, Portugal, Holland, et al.  Others, of course, preferrred the status quo, believing  that September 10th thinking was still supportable in a post 9/11 world.  Thanks for reading my review.  Cheers!	2004-12-15
US	34036979	R3LWJUKY9L8CCW	0060579412	468254470	Useful Idiots: How Liberals Got It Wrong in the Cold War and Still Blame America First	Books	3	2	5	N	N	How many liberals would ever say something the likes of "Tear down this Wall" ?	Some people simply are unable to conceive of minds of men markedly different from themselves.  The words are historian Robert Conquest's, but that's the substance of this book by Mona Charen; who provides example after example of people who project their psychological predispositions (to see themselves as inherently peaceful and well meaning) onto anyone showing the slightest indication of feeling similarly.  Consequently, any conflict (because evil---by definition almost, does not exist) must be based on misunderstandings.  That's why, for such folks, dialogue & negotiation are held so sacrosanct.  In many ways it's an alternate religion even (which is convenient if you're an otherwise atheist too).  That's why this quarter gives avowed revolutionaries passes on the means employed to achieve their self-pronounced \\"progressive\\" ends; and instinctively cautions against ever confronting such \\"progressives\\" with force. Even millions of deaths at the hands of such \\"progressives\\" do no give \\"The West\\" the right to intervene to \\"Play God\\", goes the refrain. Hence Lenin, Stalin, Mao, Kim il Sung, Ho Chi Minh, Castro, and the Sandinistas were all lauded by the Left; by outright Communists as well as by liberals who inclined in this direction.  Miss Charen's book calls out by name these \\"Useful Idiots\\", useful to the cause of tyranny.  Lenin called them idiots, it's his phrase; but he was glad to have the support of such dupes.  It's not just Cold War history, however.  Unfortunately, it's ever present what I wrote above, although now such dupes vociferously protest against any manner of intervention in Iraq, Iran, Sudan, Zimbabwe, Burma, or you name it.  For some, the only country worth protesting is the USA.  In other societies, such as those in continental Europe, it's a little easier to identify such dupes since they wear their colors on their sleeves there (as members of Socialist, Green, or Communist parties).  In the USA it's harder to tell, at least until that is, such folks open their mouths. That's the benefit of Ms. Charen's book---a record of where those inclined to sympathize with Leftist ideology have stood on every issue since the end of the Second World War. If you need reminding of this, or believed that nonsense during the week of Reagan's funeral---when a slew of those who hated Reagan suddenly seemed inclined to admit that winning the \\"Cold War\\" was a communal effort that everyone supported---then I recommend you have a look at this book.  Otherwise, you may want to consider some works a little more scholarly than this treatment. (For some books of interest herein take a look at my Amazon readers Guide: \\"Understand Leftists.\\"  If my list isn't visible somewhere on this page, it can be accessed by clicking on my name, thence to \\"So you'd like to...\\" ) (04Nov) Cheers!ch folks open their mouths. That's the benefit of Ms. Charen's book---a record of where those inclined to sympathize with Leftist ideology have stood on every issue since the end of the Second World War. If you need reminding of this, or believed that nonsense during the week of Reagan's funeral---when a slew of those who hated Reagan suddenly seemed inclined to admit that winning the \\"Cold War\\" was a communal effort that everyone supported---then I recommend you have a look at this book.  Otherwise, you may want to consider some works a little more scholarly than this treatment. (For some books of interest herein take a look at my Amazon readers Guide: \\"Understand Leftists.\\"  If my list isn't visible somewhere on this page, it can be accessed by clicking on my name, thence to \\"So you'd like to...\\" ) (04Nov) Cheers!	2004-09-18
US	34036979	R9XKH1VC1PPTM	0192804456	101824715	The First World War	Books	2	17	28	N	N	Look to Keegan et al. & Invest more time for more substance	A decent summary, even concise; a basic introduction to the conflagration that is referred to as the First World War.  As others have stated, this book is all three, but at the same time is superficial, pedestrian, and lacking in originality.  For example: \\"Since the Great War of 1914-1918 was fought on all the oceans of the world and ultimately involved belligerents from every continent, it can justifiably be termed a \\"world war\\".  But it was certainly not the first.  European powers had been fighting each other all over the globe for the previous 300 years.\\" Those are the opening sentences in this short hardcover book of 143 (junior-sized) pages.  This book has 7 very simple maps; basically of various maps of Europe at this time, with almost nothing in detail of the battle lines of the conflict.  The author repeatedly mentions lines of defense & areas of attack, but offers no aids herein regarding maps and/or description. What you get from reading this work is not, in short, much better than what you'd get from a fairly decent encyclopedia treatment; and at least there you'd get a few color battle maps instead of the ink lines that suffice in this work.  Yes, this volume is billed as \\"A very short introduction\\"; I acknowledge that, and with the limitations that implies.  I just don't see why one would choose this selection; of, in effect, rice cakes simply because you may not be interested in having a heavy meal. My recommendation thus is to look to John Keegan or others for more value, substance, and insight concerning the \\"Great War\\". Cheers!	2004-09-07
US	34036979	R297UDYGNH1JCQ	0807827398	429098335	Red Spy Queen: A Biography of Elizabeth Bentley	Books	4	24	27	N	N	The book to read Before Whittaker Chamber's	Once the depression struck many elitist students (such as Miss Bentley at Vassar) seemed to begin to feel guilty of their privileged position in society.  For those who had not religious grounding this opened up the possibility for other faiths to explain the crisis of history that they perceived themselves to be living through.  Paul Johnson, in his book \\"The  Quest for God\\" makes the point that people long for a faith to believe in and when conventional religion fails to satisfy they seek a substitute.  Environmentalism, nuclear dis-armament, anti-globalism and other such \\"movements\\" attract such folk.  For Elizabeth Bentley it was fascism, then communism, that served this purpose. She associated herself with the CPUSA (Communist Party of the USA) and through this met Jacob Golos, a soviet agent.  With this individual she became romantically involved, even though Golos had a wife back in the USSR. Eventually Golos gets caught in a passport fraud scheme which effectively blows his anonymity vis-a-vis the FBI, forcing him to utilize his mistress Bentley as a front.  So she gets involved and covers Golos before the onset of the Nazi-Soviet pact which leads the FBI to begin paying more attention to communists within the USA. In time Golos gets ill and Bentley progressively takes on more responsibility, including running an underground network of Americans who were spying for Soviet intelligence.  I don't want to detail the whole book so I'll just conclude by saying why Bentley was significant and why you ought to read this slim book.  Elizabeth Bentley testified later that all communists were potential spies for the USSR.  Communism wasn't just an intellectual proclivity ala liberalism or conservatism.  She was the one who detailed how the head of the CPUSA, for instance, took direction straight from Moscow.  The party's rank and file, moreover, was similarly loyal to the USSR, she testified. She was, in other words, the missing link connecting the CPUSA with the USSR and soviet intelligence.  The fascinating part of this great story (well told by the book's author) is that her most damning accusations of espionage couldn't be proved by the FBI, as her contacts were all tipped off soon after she came \\"in from the cold\\", so to speak, once she turned herself in to American authorities.  She had her sceptics.  It just was hard to believe what she claimed could be true; that many senior American officials could be passing intelligence to the USSR.  The US Army began to break some coded cables of the Soviets beginning in 1948 which confirmed Miss Bentley's accusations, but the public wasn't privy to this development, of course.  Miss Bentley, consequently, continued to be portrayed as a crackpot by many in government and especially in the media.  The fortunate appearance of Whittaker Chambers on the public scene, making similar accusations as Bentley...but eventually providing some proof to back it up, in the end, saved the day....and Miss Bentley's reputation.  These individuals thus proved the case that the USSR was trying to undermine the USA even while we were allied to one another during WW2; that Stalin was gearing up for a cold war years before liberals accused FDR, Truman, and Eisenhower of choosing hostility over cooperation with the USSR.  Read this book before [[ASIN:0895267896 Witness]] by Whittaker Chambers for a great 1-2 punch against political naivete.  Thanks for reading my opinion.and soviet intelligence.  The fascinating part of this great story (well told by the book's author) is that her most damning accusations of espionage couldn't be proved by the FBI, as her contacts were all tipped off soon after she came \\"in from the cold\\", so to speak, once she turned herself in to American authorities.  She had her sceptics.  It just was hard to believe what she claimed could be true; that many senior American officials could be passing intelligence to the USSR.  The US Army began to break some coded cables of the Soviets beginning in 1948 which confirmed Miss Bentley's accusations, but the public wasn't privy to this development, of course.  Miss Bentley, consequently, continued to be portrayed as a crackpot by many in government and especially in the media.  The fortunate appearance of Whittaker Chambers on the public scene, making similar accusations as Bentley...but eventually providing some proof to back it up, in the end, saved the day....and Miss Bentley's reputation.  These individuals thus proved the case that the USSR was trying to undermine the USA even while we were allied to one another during WW2; that Stalin was gearing up for a cold war years before liberals accused FDR, Truman, and Eisenhower of choosing hostility over cooperation with the USSR.  Read this book before [[ASIN:0895267896 Witness]] by Whittaker Chambers for a great 1-2 punch against political naivete.  Thanks for reading my opinion.	2004-07-01
