US	34126895	R3JP22T7B2DVN6	0743454146	844233229	The Footprints of God	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Definitely food for thought.	When David Tennant was assingned to Project Trinity by the US President himself, he never suspected life and existance as he knew them would be over soon. And why should he, he's just a doctor who had decided to take on a project a little diferent than what he was used to. He had recently emerged from a terrible depression caused by the death of his wife and daughter and he was not practicing medicine, but he levels of morality where science is concerned are unsual, broad, yet high.  <br />So he decided to join the team of 6 top scientist in quatum physics, neurology and others, toward achieving the goal of creating the first form of artificial intelligence, a computer capable of thinking on its own and even feeling, but not as strongly as us humans, a computer named Trinity. But when David and another top notch scientist decide to oppose project Trinity based on morality issues, all hell broke loose, and now David is running for his life. <br />Joining David, is Rachel his psychotherapist, who thinks him crazy at best, schizophrenic at worst. Despite this she gets involved and now she as well must run with David in order to stay alive. And to top it all off David has been having strange dreams/visions since his brain was scanned for project Trinity. <br />A fairly number of characters appear in the book to make the story more intrecate. This other characters help shape the main character as well as the story and at the same time, they give us, as readers, a more broad view of human nature in all its glory. The good, the bad and the ugly. <br />David's, or rather the author's view of God is a rather non-common one, might border on plain scary. <br />The struggle between science vs God presented here was thought provoking. Wether you are more leaned toward one than the other, this book is worth a try and worth some analyzing right after you are done with it.  <br />Major kudos for Iles, for bringing such an intricate, yet simple novel, for \\"biting nail\\" good suspense, and for trying to push his readers to anilyze and re-think our view on the magnificence of science and the mightiness of God. <br />Highly recommend.	2004-08-17
US	34126895	R2OFV00NOKMM67	0671027360	141370518	Angels & Demons	Books	5	3	6	N	N	Mind blowing...and then some.	Robert Langdon, has a few passions. He likes swimming, art history and symbology, which he teaches at Harvard, and his Mickey Mouse watch... but not necesarily in that order.  <br />That is until at a god forsaken hour very early in the morning, or very late at night, depending on your point of view, he gets a call...and a fax. But not any fax. The fax is the ambigram of something he has never seen, something he has admired and feared at once, since he first heard of them. He sees the ambigram of the Iluminati, an ancient order of scientists that are against everything the church stands for. This organization was something you didn't reckon with. However, they had been dead for a long long time... or have they? <br />Landong inmediately flies to the CERN labs where the Iluminati resurected in a grotesque sort of way. Now he must, as a symbologist, verify if the ambigran is real.  <br />Soon the pace of the book picks up, as Langdon meets the attractive Vittoria, a CERN scientinst, and they beging a journey to save the church from the Illuminati, and the world from the antimatter, which is an element so unstable it explodes even when it comes to contact with air. <br />Brown is a masterful storyteller who grabs you from the get go and sucks you in the story. I was always on the verge of my seat, and my adrenaline kept pomping. I felt like I was with Langdon and Vittoria in Rome and  Vatican City, fighting an order that was almost invicible, yet very palpable. This book is filled with action and will not let you go until you're done turning the last page. I personally empathized tremendously with one of the characters and also felt betrayed. For me this book was like having my own movie inside my head. <br />The journey was fantastic and the historical points were tremendous.  <br />Brown is definitely a master of his craft. Highly, highly recomend this book!	2004-08-13
US	34126895	R3ENJLNXPKFFT	0778320111	235848843	Suburban Renewal	Books	5	1	1	N	N	One of the most beautiful books I've ever read!	This book was a breath of fresh air among all the romance novels I read. Don't get me wrong I love romance for many reasons and I will pick romance from any other genre any day of the week. Not because I can't understand other genres, but simply becuase romance is \\"my cup of tea\\". However among the genre of romance there's a lot of formulas that we can see over and over again adn I'm a bit tired of it. So when I picked Suburban Renewal and started reading ch 1 in the store I knew I had to have the book and that I would like it. I was wrong. I did not liked the book. I LOVED the book. This is Morsi at her best.<BR>Suburban Renewal is the story of Corrie and Sam. Corrie is the popular girl, who is valedictorian, come from the right side of the tracks and tries to please her parents. She has ambition and drive. She has a plan. <BR>Sam is the 2 year older guy from the wrong side of the track. Bad family history except for his grandma who has raised him sincee he was a little guy. He's not particularly smart, not particularly ambitious, and even though he plays high school football he is not particularly good enough to make it to college ball.<BR>He has watched her from afar and has always known that she is out of his league. However that does not stop him from asking her to the homecoming dance. She accepts and that is that for them. They soon fall in love. But things happen and they are separeted for 2 years. Then Corrie goes away to college and breaks up with Sam upon her mother's request. However one thing Sam and Corrie did not plan. Despite being careful, Corrie ends up pregnant and Sam sees this as the perfect opportunity to have Corrie to himself forever. So he grabs his chance and runs with it. <BR>Sam works very hard to provide for Corrie and their soon to be in this world baby. He takes every job he can and saves as much as possible. And that's how their years together beging. The book is written in 1st person and by year. So you'll see the point of view of Sam in year 1985 and on Corrie's too.<BR>You get to see how their marriage evolves. The hardships of marrying so young and uneducated. The unwise and wise decisions they make. We see their family grow and how parenthood takes a toll on the relationship. We see Sam's father play a huge role in the lives of everyone and we see Corrie questioning her marriage to Sam more often than he does. <BR>What one character of the book said of Sam was completetly true, he was the nurturer. He was a great provider, husband and father. He never tried to diminish Corrie's needs with his own or for his own personal benefit. I empathized a whole lot more with Sam than with COrrie. She was a very good character, but I would have done many things differently and handle them differently as well. <BR>The book is full of modern history, charm, great writing, outstanding character development and an absolutly fabulously real story of life, love and marriage. It is a close up picture of what a good marriage is. With the good the bad and the evil.<BR>In short the book was near perfect!<BR>2 thumbs up way up!	2004-01-30
US	34126895	R357HCN0F4K2PT	0380821095	142171938	His Scandal	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Callen, once again, delivers.	Alex Thornton is back in London and bored. He decides to spice things a little by challenging his good friend Endmund Blackwell to a little harmless wager. They must find a maiden to kiss...and only to kiss. Of course they choose for the other the maidens that they thought would be the most difficult to get a simple kiss from. But Alex is surprised that his good friend has just choosen Blythe Prescott a very flirtatious girl...until he meets her sister, and then he understands that to get to Blythe Prescott he must first charm Emmeline Presscott, a plain spinster.<BR>Funny thing is that Emmeline amuses him more than Blythe does. That is until Alex realizes that the plain spinster is not plain but beautiful and witty and smart and charming and... Now he just can't get her out of his system. But he must fight hard to keep his feelings and lust at bay becuase he is only a sencond son ( even though they are twins) and has not much to offer. He also has many scandals under his belt and he has decided that he does not want to marry anyone...too bad Emmeline has him thinking differently latetly. Emmeline with her dresses that cover all of her luscious body, Emmeline with her wit and charm. Emmeline with her innocent kisses full of passion. <BR>And worst of all, Alex is blinded by jelousy every time a man comes near her. <BR>To complicate matters Emmeline is also terribly attracted to Alex despite herself. And he is making her feel something, not even the poet that used to court her, made her feel. <BR>Through out the book we uncover Alex and Em and their passions and secrets. It is a wonderful story full of wit and charming moments. Although the storyline seems simple enough and done already, Callen has a way with words and accomplishes her mission to captivate her readers to this fantastic romantic tale. So far this is my favorite of the trilogy and it was the only one I bought because I thought &quot;I might as well read it since I already read 1 &amp; 3&quot;. Definitetly not dissapointed but actually surrpised at how much I liked it. Very tender story.	2004-01-14
US	34126895	R5F3TOOSKA23W	0671743856	37185038	Wishes	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Undeniably a true romance! *sighs*	To say this book was a classic romance, is to put it mildly.<BR>Nellie is 28 years old. An old maid by her society's standards. She is beautiful but plump. Dont get me wrong, I have no problem with real size and plus size women, being one myself, but this seemed to be the main characteristic people in Nellie's town saw of her. <BR>When she was 12, and her sister, Terel, 4, Nellie's mother died. After that she had to take care of her entire family and the house. A burden for any child. But since she was craving for any type of love from her family not been given any previously, she dutifully took her duties. Shortly after she grew accosumed to be depended upon and to serve her father, who &quot;could give Scrooge lessons&quot; and her sister, who takes the word selfish to a whole new level. <BR>On top of all teh burden Nellie most carry, she also is told by her sister and father, constantly, how fat she is, and what little confidence she ever had as a child, was taken away by the constant reminder of her imperfections, by father and sister.<BR>Jace Montgomery comes from a big family who is very, very close. They are all good at something and they support each other.<BR>Did I forgot to mention that this man is a HUNK? He is tall, dark and kind...what a great and rare combination. After his wife and son die 4 years earlier, Jace decides to go in a self destructive period, until he visits some of his relatives and starts to wonder if maybe he should pick the pieces in his life and carry on. By this time Jace saves the life of a man who's being mugged. As fate might have it, that man is Nellie's dad. He invites Jace to hos home for dinner and offers Jace a job, all this with ulterior motives, after all he does know that Jace is a heir and he wants to marry him off to Terel. Jace is no fool, but still goes to the dinner invitation since Nellie's dad lives in the same town one of Jaces cousins live. When he sees Nellie for the 1st time he falls in love and agrees with Nellie's dad praises of his daughter. It is not until dinner it's well on it's way that Jace figures out that Nellie's dad was speaking of Terel and not Nellie. But not of this will stop Jace from wanting to be close to Nellie and to get to know her better, becuase she is the only woman, since his wife, that makes him feel wonderful, that stirs somethign in him. So he starts his pursue. But poor Nellie doesn't know what to do with this gorgeous man that could have any women in the world. He is flirting with her and making it obviously clear that he is only interested in her. After a little struggling acceptance on her part and some strong persuation from Jace, Nellie begins to blossom and beleive in Jace. <BR>The plot thickens when the jelous, selfish sister finds out that Jace Montgomery is after her sister and not her, as she had thought. So she decides to keep them apart, whichever way. And their father helps Terel because if Nellie leaves, well, who's going to cook and clean, and iron for him...for free!<BR>The story gets even more interesting when a formerly selfish person enters the story in order to help...but who?<BR>This is my 2nd Deveraux book and I have not been dissapointed so far. This book was wonderfully writen and very easy and fast to read. I was done with it in some hours, and I'm a slow reader.<BR>The character are well defined and the vilans exasperate anyone with a heart.<BR>The only thing that bothered me a little was that Nellie and Jace dont get to have as many moments as I wished, but there's so many thigns goign on, well decribed, that I didn't noticed the flaws, until I was done reading it and analyzing it.<BR>Highly recomend.	2004-01-04
US	34126895	R3VWFL7ZHUYG5U	0451410904	155908831	Blushing Pink	Books	5	9	9	N	N	After so many books, finally a winner!	Ms Winters scores high marks with this wonderful and funny novel.<BR>Reese Brock is working on her PhD. She has a fellowship in a university in NY. She's dating a nerd that knows about basic human interaction as Britney Spears knows about singing (not much). In exchange for free room and tuition she must work as a Professor's Assistant to one of the most hated, conceited and not original, professors in her university. She's trying really hard to get her disertation going, but try as she might, she can't even think about it, much less write it. Now, to spice up her life, her baby sister is getting married. And Reese, with her older sister, Angela, is the maid of honor. Reese's mom, means well, but she thinks Reese is close to wonder woman, hence she delegates everything on Reese. And Reese is always too sweet to say no. She is very kind and gentle soul, but she is not stupid at all.<BR>What Reese did not expect was to have Brian Dorean back in her life so soon, or that he would cause such a heated reaction just by being in the same room as Reese. You see, Reese and Brian had met 2 years ago at a party that Amy (Reese's baby sister) invited Reese to go. A little peck for New Year's congratulation became a heated, rip-out-your-clothe kiss. But the kiss was left at that, and they both assumed neither wanted to proceed based only on that kiss.<BR>But the minute they are thrown at each other, or rather sitted next to each other, in a dinner, Reese and Brian begin to wonder if that kiss had only been a moment thing, or something else, because at the moment, they seemed to be having very passionate thoughts.<BR>Then, turns out, Brian lunches everyday in the same place Reese works (a bookstore), and suddenly they begin to get to know each other. And the best part is that they really like what they see. Of course things can not be too easy for our heros. So we are introduced to Veronica, Brian's ex-fiancee, who wants to reconecile. Brian's family, and especially his sister, who is going through a rough time. And of course Kenneth, Reese's nerdy love interest, who all of a sudden decides to pursue Reese a bit harder, just when Reese was wondering how to dump him without hurting him. And as a plus there's also a short second story in Angela and her hubby, which I found beautiful.<BR>I really loved this book, first because the characters are very well developed, all of them. Second because the heroine is not anorexically thin, but well endowed. And third because I trully felt that the progression, in terms of Reese and Brian's relationship, evolved natually. It did not feel forced. it felt natural, like it was meant to happen right at that point, not sooner, not later. Reese was a strong women and Brian only brings that out on her. Her changes are very subtle, yet we as readers can see them and we can only applaud her for coming to terms with her life and who she really is and wants to be.<BR>There are other romance books in which the love scenes occur in pages 250 and up, and the realization of love, only from one of teh characters, comes by pages 100 and up. This doesnt occur here. I think Jill Winters found her own formula, her own voice and she is not afraid to use it!<BR>I highly reccomed this book to anyone.<BR>Now I'm in search for Plum Girl (her 1st novel) which I havent read yet. But be sure, from now on, if it says Jill Winters in it, I'm buying it!	2003-12-30
US	34126895	R1DEA5Z501E48B	0312974256	394302937	Welcome to Temptation	Books	3	5	11	N	N	3 1/2 stars. But GO OSU!	Welcome to Temptation...a not so welcomed dissapointment.<BR>This is the story of one of the Dempseys, Sophie, the oldest. She has taken care of her 2 younger siblings, Amy and Davy, since she was 17. Her family has a long history with the law...on the wrong side of it, for that matter. Her father is currently serving time in jail, her sister had a juvie file thicker than the bible and Davy is coning whoever he can...but only as long as those he cons are coners as well. Follow me so far? Good.<BR>To earn a living Sophie and Amy have a video company in which they film weddings mostly, but as luck may happen Clea, a one film actress...not counting the porn one, contacts Amy and tells her that she wants Sophie and Amy to shoot her coming back to Temptation, OH as part of an audition for a film company. Sophie and Amy agree and head to Temptation, where from the very begining problems arise.<BR>Temptation is a small town, hence, gossip travels quicker than the former Condor.<BR>Enters the picture Mayor Phinias Tucker, the very attractive town boy, only grown up. For Sophie he equals disgust because, without him knowing, Phin reminds Sophie of a very bitter moment when she was in high school and many other sour moments every time their parents moved from town to town. But the attraction between these two is undeniable, so why fight it? After all, is only a game.<BR>Only it turns out not to be because soon these two start feeling a little too deep to make their liaison too casual.<BR>To complicate matters Phin has a 9 year old daughter (who is a delight, a mother who thinks he's still 12 years old and a very jealous reporter who happens to be Clea's soon to be ex husband.<BR>Zane, Clea's husband, is a lousy excuse of a human being, but he wants his wife back and resorts to all kinds of blackmail to push her back to him.<BR>Suddenly a dead body is found and now everyone is a suspect. Especially the Dempseys.<BR>Personally, I picked this book because I read in a review thatthe heroine was a plus size, the only evidence I found of that was that she was described as \\"round\\", \\"soft\\". The hero, Phin, was very annoying. If I want to read about men like him, I wouldn't be reading fiction and above all I wouldn't be reading romance. He was annoying. Obsessed with pool, which I'm sorry but that's not a sport, no matter what he thinks, he called her \\"dummy\\" every once in a while, just because he thought she didnt read (and she never confirmed or denied if she did or not), and she never told him to turn it down a notch or two because his ego was taking 3 out of 4 chairs in a table. He seems to be more interested in having hot sex with her than in getting to know her and I never saw a real base for their so called love.<BR>Amy, Sophie's sister, is spoiled rotten and so selfish I was thinking maybe the devil was a bit more altruistic. She never once thought about Sophie and her life, well not until the very end, and she even got jealous of a 9 year old for the attention Sophie was paying to her and not to Amy.<BR>Davy was about the most redeemable character. He was funny, warm and he played the role of big brother even though he is younger. <BR>I'm not saying Sophie and Phin and their story are not likeable. I think it was very entertaining and a fast read all in all. But the points mentioned above made me roll my eyes various times and after I was done reading the book I didn't think it was memorable. The mystery of the death and other mysteries makes up for the weaker points in the novel.<BR>And being an OSU alumni helped me find a point or two that were redeemable as well.	2003-12-28
US	34126895	R24FH72IWL0DT3	038077352X	382195301	Dreaming of You	Books	4	2	2	N	N	What a tender story.	Derek Craven comes from the most extremes of nothings. He was raised by prostitues here and there. Picked up bad habits form thieves and criminals in order to survive a time where human rights did not even existed. He does many menial jobs, but he also works in certain things that are better left unsaid.<BR>None of this stops Derek from having all he dreamed off when he was just a little boy cleaning chimneys. And now Derek Craven is the owner of Craven', an extremely succesful gambling club. And thanks to his business savvy, Derek is one of the richest men in England.<BR>Sara Fielding is a naive 25 year old country maid. But despite her sheltering and her innocence she has written two books which were a total success, including MATHILDA, which tells the story of a prostitute. She does extensive research for her books, and that includes going to the wort parts of London. <BR>One night, while researching, she walks past an alley and sees a man about to be murdered, or so she thought, so she jusmps to his rescue. Little did she know, who she was saving was none other that THE Derek Craven.<BR>She helps him, and in return he helps her back with her new book reseach. unfurtunately none of them knew that somehow they were going to end up attracted to each other, and even worst, they were going to fall for each other.<BR>However, Derek is not ready to love. He strongly beleives that because of his past deeds he does not deserve Sara. Sara thinks she isnt capable of attackting a man like Derek and decides to go back to her almost fiancee. <BR>But forgetting does not turn out as easy as they thought and once again they find themselves at a party. Now they must confront their feelings and act upon them, or stay quiet and let the person they love slip right through their hands.<BR>The plot is thickened by an obssesive character that gives a whole new meaning to the word jelous and obssesive. This character, of course is revealed form the begining, but you never know what thenext step it might take, will be.<BR>The story was very tender and touchign. It made me feel grateful that I live in this day of age, where I have rights that protect me right and left.<BR>Sara and Derek make a beautiful, passionate couple and their love is timeless.<BR>Highly reccomed this book and it's pre-quel &quot;And then came you&quot;.	2003-12-16
US	34126895	RQVWJX1RBU29B	0312984839	744273408	Dance with the Devil (Dark-Hunter, Book 4)	Books	4	0	1	N	Y	Ms Kenyon keeps writing them, I keep reading them!	For all of you, who still don't know it, DWTD is the 4th installment in the Dark Hunters (DH) series of Ms Kenyon.<BR>Zarek is not the baddest, but certainly the maddest of all Dark Hunters. He has been banned to Alaska for the last 900 years, where he has had very little interaction with people...or living beings for tha matter (unless you count the hunt for his dinner). He lives in very small confinments and has a temper from hell.<BR>Artemis decides that after a little incident in New Orleans (which occurs in Night Embrace) she is goign to get rid of Zarek permanently. Fortunatetly for Zarek, Ash (the DH's leader) is not about to let one of his DH's to go down with out a fair trial just because of the frivolous whims of a goddess. So he calls Astrid who is a justice nymph. Acheron and Astrid arrange everything and Zarek ends up almost dead at Astrid's house steps. Let the trial begin. <BR>Astrid is now blind (justice is blind) and trying to get to know Zarek (no easy task with such a \\"sunny\\" attitude). But she is determined, if not for him, for Ash, to unearth the truth of Zarek's actions and attitude.<BR>Little by little Astrid learns about Zarek's life before he became a DH. How he was a whipping boy utilized by his own father. How he never had anyone to claim as his own and all the damage a previous life had caused to a young man. And even, how other DH's judge him based on a crime Zarek can't even remeber. But Zarek is not ready to leave all that baggage out the door and have a happy life...with Astrid. <BR>Every time Astrid learns something new about Zarek she falls deeply in love with him and she finds out who truly is. All the potential he has. Of course no love story is easy, so a little side dish is offered. A major Daimon...or actually a Day-Dark-Hunter enters the picture. This guy is mean and bad. Even worst, he's hunting Zarek down for a personal vendetta (the little crime our hero can't remember). Although he is hateable from the begining, as the book goes further we understand his motivation and his drive to seek justice any way he can. <BR>The story is fantastic, well paced, touching and funny. In short is Sherrilyn Kenyon at her best. SO far this is my favorite DH novel and I can't wait to get my hands on the upcoming books (too bad I have to wait til next year).<BR>SK has a wonderful talent of not only creating facinating worlds and wonderful storytelling, she also creates fallen heros like no one else. Sympathizing with them is as easy as breathing. <BR>I would give it a 5 stars but I found that there were some pieces left unexplained. I have a feeling the author did it on purpose and will cover this in future books, but I still felt like I needed to know everything about Zarek.<BR>Hence I'm giving it a 4 1/2 stars.<BR>Highly reccomend and every other book she has written. If it has her name in it, it's sure to be a winner!<BR>Run to the store to buy it if you still dont have it!<br />PS. Go Buckeyes!!!	2003-12-15
US	34126895	R2ZU9RO4B1X0QK	037303749X	152325861	The Bridesmaid's Reward (What Women Want !)	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Very cute	This is the very sweet story of Dodie, an overweight woman with more emotional baggage than anyone cares to handle, and Brad, a multimillionar, ex-rugby player who has his own demons to handle as well.<BR>Dodie, suddenly needs to shed two dress sizes in order to fit into the bridesmaid's dress for her sister's (a popular actress) wedding. So she enlists the help of her best friend. Problem is her best friend,Gina, is on her way to the US for business. So she appoints Dodie's case to Angie, one of the trainners in the gym Gina's a manager. Dodie accepts although reluctantly. Problem again is that Angie is sent to the hospital in an emergency. <BR>Brad owns the gyms, but is somewhat bored so he decides to wrok at Gina's particular gym in order to know how she's doing and to get &quot;down and dirty&quot; with regular work. So when Dodie, literally, falls on his arms, he decides to take her case without her knowing who he really is.<BR>From there the story evolves as well as their relationship. <br />Brad is only used to date stick figures (model types) and Dodie has a serious problem with chocolate (I never thought anyone could eat too much chocolate, but this woman gives the word addiction a whole new meaning). Brad finds that his attraction for Dodie grows stronger by the minute, but can not explain it. <BR>Dodie and Brad had to fight their own battles in order to conquer their fears and be together. The main problem is Dodie and her lack of self respect, but the beauty of the story is how Brad doesn't baby her, yet he gives her her self respect back little by little. Along the way, he finds that she is just perfect the way she is, and he wouldn't have her any other way. One of the things I really liked was that she didn't become super thin overnight, as a matter of fact she wasn't even close to her goal, yet she was confident in her own skin towards the end of the book.<BR>There's no love scene here, really, however there are some very sweet and slightly warm-hot scenes.<br />Definitely recomend the book, however be advised, the book is Australian (author) so certain things are spelled differently, and the dialogue is not in &quot;regular&quot; (U.S.) quotation marks.<BR>All in all, good, fast read. Very empowering, and I seriously hope to find the Brad of my life.	2003-12-11
US	34126895	RA73BAZQXKSOE	0060549270	851093114	A Greek God at the Ladies' Club	Books	4	5	6	N	N	3 3/4 stars. Good read, but could have been better.	Alexandra de Marco is an strugling artist. After spending much time of a year sculpting the statue of Darius, the god of the gems, and favorite son of Zeus, she is finally ready to show her work and auction it in order to use that money to help keep a house with orphans open. Alex is very partial of orphans being one herself (with her sister).<BR>Darius, god of gems, has been pretty much in a state of nothingness for the last 3,000 years after a little incident locked him inside a statue of himself. He has spent these 3,000 years looking for a statue that is perfect do he can enter it and retake his original form. Problem is daddy Zeus was mad as Hades at Darius for converting himself into a statue to get out of a mess Darius got himself into, so mad in fact Zaus decided to curse his own son. So everytime Darius finds a close match of a statue of himself, \\"Boom!\\" Zeus destroys it.<BR>Darius has pretty much given up, until Hermes shows up to tell him about a certain statue of Darius that is being made in St. Louis. Then, he decides to risk it.<BR>Alex has no idea that Darius is close to her all this time while she gives the final touches to her perfect work, and that the strange events occuring in her place are being caused by the god.<BR>Shortly after the statue si finished and set for preview at the ladies club, Darius turns to life and that's when all begins.<BR>Alexandra is beyond beleif, and naturally does not beelive him at the begining. Darius can not beleive that jewels are so accecible now days, since he was banned from his position, so he takes what he thinks belongs to him, putting Alex into even more trouble.<BR>The kids from the house Alex is trying to save, are wonderful and funny. And they bring Darius's ego down a notch or two.<BR>Alex's sister is a bit stiff but redemable.<BR>The main problem I had with this book is not the story perse, but the dialogue, or the lack of it.<BR>I found that descriptions is the order of the day here, and dialogue was few and far between. Situations that could have replaced some of the most monotonous descriptions were left pretty much in blank. For example Alex went through an accident before the novel begins, but when she is talking to Darius about it, the author describes the scene soemwhat like this: \\"\\"I had an accident.\\" \\"Tell me about it\\" and she did. She told him about the accident and...\\"<BR>This is not the only time I saw the same thing happening and it bother me a lot. Had it not been for this I would have given this book 4 1/2 stars.<BR>Overall, the book was very funny and enjoyable. Slow at some points, and could have been better, but certainly a good read.<BR>The characters are great but they are at times 2 dimensional. Most of the events are funny and charming, some, however, just drag the story. The characterization of Darius's family, at least in my opinion, was way out of character (they were too nice, and we all now that greek gods weren't that compassionate) but this is a work of fiction so I kind of liked the whole twist.<BR>All in all, yes I would recomend this book.	2003-12-10
US	34126895	R2JVK9KQNE82JQ	0743456335	753332767	A Man to Call My Own : A Novel (Lindsey, Johanna)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	3 1/2 stars and I'm  Dissapointed	I was really looking foward to this book. The plot sounded original enough.<br />Marian and Amanda are twins. Amanda is beautiful but nasty. Marian, might be identical to Amanda, but she hides, purposelly, behind thick glasses and ugly clothes.<br />Their father, which seemed to be incapable of loving two people at once, hence he prefered Amanda, dies. And the sisters are sent to Texas to their only alive relative, Aunt Red.<br />Enters Chad in the picture. A hunky cowboy who's helping Red with her ranch, and who happens to be the son and heir of the richest and most powerful, but extremely nice, rancher in Texas.<br />He ends up picking them up and immediately feels attracted to Amanda. But eventually he notices the real Amanda and the real Marian...and goes and falls in love with Marian. But one mistake leads to another and cowardice does not allow for the truth to come out. Hence, more problems arise. Until the unexpected happens and finally Chad decides to be persistant and confront Marian to fix things.<br />The characters were not well developed. The relationship between Chad and Marian does not seem to have a real basis. I mean there's a transition, but at the same time, it is not very palpable. There are no memorable moments or anything of the sort.<br />However, I did ended the book in a day and was entertained. Yes I would say read this book...if you have nothign more important to read, if you like Historicals, and dont mind lack of detail in relationship and character development.	2003-08-25
US	34126895	R3BNUCI15XZD3A	0553563343	755856344	Breath of Magic	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Beyond my expectations!	The hero is Tristan, which is one of my favorite male names. He's proud, dangerous, powerful, and not a very nice person. But he has his motives and reasons for this.<BR>The heroine, Arian, comes from a whole different century. Lans in Tristan's backyard, with a flying broom, just in time to prove Tristan magic does exist. This after Tristan makes an announcement saying that he will pay one million dollars to whoever can prove that real magic exists.<BR>She is held in Tristan's penthouse until his team of scientifics can prove that magic was involved and not some very well performed trick.<BR>But in the meantime Tristan and Arian start to fall for each other. However, his past doesn't let him trust her, or anyone else for that matter. Thus, complicating things.<BR>There's betrayal, abandoment, love, hate and many other things going on. The book was excellent, and I enjoyed each and every minute I spent reading it.<BR>My only complaint? It ended too soon.	2003-08-18
US	34126895	R1V3RYCACGRM35	0380802309	753418941	Someone to Watch Over Me (Bow Street, Book 1)	Books	3	0	1	N	N	3 3/4 stars.	This book begins really good. But soon I was wondering how in the world did I end up with the book.<BR>Vivien is a courtesan, who only accepts the richest suitors. She's frivolous and shallow, but extremely beautiful.<BR>Grant Morgan is a Bow Street Runner, and probably the most respected one. He's handsome and has made, not only a name for himself, but a good fortune. Even though he has no important name, and does not belong either in the poor, middle, or high class.<BR>One night he is called to view the body of a woman drowned in the Thames. Problem is, the dead lady is not so dead after all. And happens to be Vivien Duvall. Who had the misfortune of humiliating Grant in front of the ton. So now that Grant has the opportunity, he takes her to his home and decides that he'll take his vengance. Little did he know that Vivien remembers nothing (Amnesia), so he tells her that she is his mistress.<BR>But something is amiss. Vivien, is not acting like her usual self, and no matter how much amnesia she has, things do not seem to add up.<BR>On the other hadn, someone, the same person that tried to choke and drown Vivien, is still loose and will try to kill Vivien again.<BR>The plot seems interesting enough, and I think I would have enjoyed this book much better if a few pages were lost. Like 50-70 pages. Many detail is given, that I felt was unnecesary. And if you ask me, the climax was predictable. Then again, I've read so  many books and seen so many movies, that not much surprises me now. And I have the tendency to predict what will happen next very easily.<BR>Overall, yes I liked the book. The idea of the plot was good, but I wish it had been shorter. I mean the plot is solved at the end of pages 200's. And the book is like 350 pages.<BR>I will recomend the book, because I'm sure most people are not as picky as I am, and I knwo this book will be thorougly enjoyed by other people.<BR>However, this book has a higher rating than Suddenly You, and I must say I enjoyed Suddenly You much better!	2003-08-18
US	34126895	RP8UCDZGPJTFM	0312983743	368981056	Knock Me Off My Feet	Books	5	1	1	N	N	This one is a keeper	I first picked this book because of Lori Foster. She recomended it in her website and I love her, so I thought it would be a good book. After reading what it was about I was majorly turned off. I didnt bought it. Then I got a lengthy excerpt from a group i belong to, and decided to give it a chance. Boy, after reading the first part (of 5) I wanted the book immediately. <BR>This book is refreshing, original and funny as hell. <BR>Autum is Homey Helen, a Chicago Martha Stewart. But she lands in that position because her mother (the original Homey Helen) made her promise before she died.<BR>But Audie (Autum) is getting threat letters and a dectective (Quinn) is sent to check what is going on and protect her. The attraction is instantaneous. Now I dont like this type of book where it is all too sudden, but in this book, it worked perfectly. You can tell the why, what and how of that attarction. <BR>Soon the letters post a date for Audies death. Quinn and Audie can barely keep their hands from each other, and Audie is metting all of Quinn's family, who are a happy, loud, woderful bunch.<BR>She is not used to have a close family. Not familiar with love, and at the 1st sign that her and Quinn's relationship is shifting to love she flees.<BR>The person behind the letters is really sick, and it's probably not expected for most people.<BR>The book was fantastic I finished it in no time. It is beautiful and I highly recomend it!	2003-08-18
US	34126895	R3RVHSLX91A11E	0380802325	85428738	Suddenly You	Books	4	4	4	N	N	4 1/2 stars	This is my 1st Lisa Kleypas book. And it won't be my last. <BR>Amanda Briars is popular writer and very respected in the social circles. She is a spinster and a virgin, so for her 30th birthday, she decides to make a present to herself that will take care of certain things...like her virginity. She hires a male prostitute, that she has never seen. That's why a handsome to boot man shows up in her door the night of her birthday, she naturally assumes that he is the man she was waiting for.<BR>Jack Devlin owns one of the biggest publishers and has been dyign to sign Amanda to his publisher. So he decides to show up to her door and try to convince her to work for him, since soemhow he managed to get a copy of her 1st book, that she sold a while ago, but was never published.<BR>As their conversation keeps going, Jack finally understands what Amanda did, and who she thinks he is, so he plays along. <BR>She never discovers who he is, until they are introduced at a party. And that's when all hell breaks loose.<BR>Their attarction is undeniable and eventually they decide to have an affair for a certain period of time. However things start to complicate, and rumors start flying. And Amanda starts fearing what might happen if it's known that she is having an affair with the infamous Jack Devlin.<BR>Jack holds a secret that is heartbreaking, and this does not allow him to feel secure with wanting a family and a wife.<BR>The plot thickens as a 3rd character becomes more involved and a little something also happens.<BR>The book was funny and sweet and sad. It was definitely worth it and I think it was very refreshing and original.<BR>Definitely reccomend it.	2003-08-18
US	34126895	R1HPKJVEUIK9LI	0743456173	147794316	Just the Way You Are (Lost Texas Hearts, Book 1)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Perfect!	After reading this book, I'm surprised that Mrs.Dodd has taken this long and had her doubts on writting contemporary. This book exceptional.<BR>It has been a long time since I actually read a book that I could NOT, and I mean NOT put down. <BR>Hope has had a very hard life since her parents died. She was separated from her family in the worst, most hurtful, possible way. <BR>Seven years after the brutal removal from her family, Hope is in Boston working for a answering service, where she takes messages for the clients of the agency.<BR>Enters Zach. A very prestigiuos, rich, powerful and heartless business man, who happens to hate technology (I found this hilarious). He becomes a client of this agency since he cant work an answering machine, voicemail, computers, etc.  <BR>The minute he hears Hope's voice he feels his body react to her. The minute he calls she assumes he is Zach's butler.<BR>So they stablish a relationship through the phone (non romantic). Then they meet and that's where it all gets hot.<BR>They are extremely attracted to each other, but Zach keeps the farse. Hope opens up, for the first time in seven years, to Zach and Zach finds himself feeling extremely possevive of Hope.<BR>There's plenty more to the story, but I cant give you the whole enchilada. That's part of the beauty and appeal of the book. <BR>I loved this book so much, I HAD to finish it ASAP. It is my favorite CD's book and it surapssed all my expectations (and beleive me they were high already).<BR>Go buy this book, you wont regret a minute of it!	2003-08-14
US	34126895	RW0OZ0DDWKJGZ	0743418174	780559593	Good in Bed	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A delight!	This story is for anyone (men or women) that has ever felt like she/he didnt belong, felt weird, strange, ugly, fat, unloved...(insert your prefered adjective here).<br />Cannie has a job she loves. Friends she can rely upon, a social life, a pot head of a boyfriend...well ex, and a lesbian mother.<br />Yep, she has it all.<br />After Cannie finds out that her now ex boyfriend has a column in an important magazine, and his first article is titled \\"Lovign a larger Woman\\" in which he publicly decides to talk about hsi relationship with Cannie and how he dealt with the fact of being in love with a larger woman. I found the article actually pretty good. He has a very valid point, but I also understand the humiliation of Cannie.<br />She decides to take her wight under control, but things beging to happen and soon Cannie finds out that some things in life don't happen the way we want them to. And that sometimes, most of the times, these unexpected turns are for the better.<br />I found the book encuraging, beautiful and sublime. It was a treat to read.<br />I highly reccomend it to anyone. I cried, laughed, cried again, gaped with my mouth open, got angry and then cried again, but with JOY!<br />Loved it!	2003-08-09
US	34126895	R1GBIRAZ1CWZMR	0373245513	798354747	And Babies Make Four (Silhouette Special Edition No. 1551)(Manhattan Multiples)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Very sweet.	Mindy and Jason used to be in High School together. He was the handsome loner, she was the Head Cheerleader. <BR>He crushed on her. She crushed on him. He didn't made a move. Neither did she.<BR>11 years later Jason is the headshot of a company he and his best fried founded. Mindi is divorced and expecting twins. <BR>She decides to take her life under control and goes back to NY and finds a job as an administrative assistant...to Jason.<BR>Sparks fly the very minute they see each other and they must learn to control their attraction in the office. But soon they can not ignore their feelings any longer and decide to take matters in their own hands.<BR>The story is real sweet and I finish it in a few hours.<BR>If you like romances about thought unrequited love and family, you'll love this one!	2003-07-29
US	34126895	R2B1F2M8UDU6U5	074343787X	654401223	The Devil You Know (Rutledge Family, Book 3)	Books	4	14	15	N	N	Excellent!	Frederica d'Avillez is a good girl who is an orphan and taken by her cousin and her family, who happen to be an interesting bunch, but a good interesting bunch at that. <BR>Bentley Ruteledge is a rogue and a rake in every sense of the word. He beds a woman every 2 days and feels nothign much.<BR>He happens to be a friend of Freddie's cousins and Freddie does not hold a single memory that doesnt have Bentley somewhere around. She considers him a friend, so when a guy that had promised Freddie to marry her, changes his mind, Freddie finds herself in the arms of Bentley...crying. One thing leads to the other and now Freddie is 18 and pregnant. She does not want to marry Bentley, but Bentley insists. <BR>Soon Freddie will find the truth of her husband's gambling, whoring and drinking. His family, she notices, seems to have a secret in every corner. And surprise, surprise they do!<BR>The book is great , the form Carlyle developes their relationship is very well done. Sympathizing with the characters is extremely easy and the secrets that surround the Ruteledges is heart breaking. <BR>The book was fantastic, my only complain was that at times so many characters were thrown at me, I did not know who was who and what were they doing there. And some descriptions I found unnecesary, but that's just personal taste. Everything else was great. Everything in the book worked and the story is heart warming and compelling!	2003-07-24
US	34126895	R3EU4EONCPZOOG	043935806X	667539744	Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (Book 5)	Books	4	1	2	N	Y	Very sad indeed	I've been a fan of HP since quite some time and waiting for this book was not easy, although never an option.<br />In this 5th installment of the series, we see a more deep, dark side of Harry. He's more angsty than before, and although not as noble in some levels, he is still noble and trying to do the right thing.<br />Some reviewers bashed Harry's \\"arrogance\\" and angster, I, however see it differently.<br />Harry is 15 now, he is a teenager, asn apparently some of the reviwers forgot what it means to be a teenager. Me, being 22, still remember how full of anger I was, to the point where not even I could stand myself. So for me Harry's behavior is more than understandable. And considering what he has been through, I would dare to say that he took many things rather well.<br />In this book HP notices how things dont always work with what is right. How unfair the world can be, and how short life is. He faces death is a more personal level, and I have to agree with another reviwer that said that a particular death in the book was very much below the belt since Harry has gone through way too much to add a death that is simply heartbreaking.<br />Ron and Hermione are their ususal self, but if they keep fighting I might smack them both in the head.<br />A new character (one of many) is introduced. Her name is Luna \\"Loony\\" Lovegood. She is so adorable an so weird, but she is extremely likeable.<br />Hagrid's bits in the book were quite boring, i must painfully admit. But Umbridge makes up for this seldom bits.<br />Dumbledore's character is also more elaborated. We get to see another side of his, and a side that can be viewed as weak, but I only see it as human, which only adds to the list of reasons why Voldemort only fears Dumbledore.<br />Overall the book was fantastic, but more depressive and sad, than any of the other. I have to agree with JK in why did she made it so dark and that is because as we grow older life starts to lose it's fairness and we start seeing things under a different light, just as Harry is learning to.<br />Poor Harry his journey is still not over, and more diffucult than probably anyone I know including myself.rent light, just as Harry is learning to.<BR>Poor Harry his journey is still not over, and more diffucult than probably anyone I know including myself.	2003-07-18
US	34126895	R1ANR1DHYWZ2M4	0312984820	322000736	Night Embrace (Dark-Hunter, Book 3)	Books	4	0	2	N	N	Another great DH story	I couldn't wait to read Talon's story after reading Night Pleasures, bacuase Talon seemed like a very promisisng character, and he definitely was.<BR>His story, as well as the other previous stories of Julian and Kyrian, is very sad indeed. He was a chief of his clan (The Morrigantes, which are Celts) and he was a warrior you wouldn't want to mess with. But ultimately he was punished for his mother's deeds, (she was the queen of Talon's tribe and eloped with someone much beneath her). And when Talon is punished, he is punished well by his clan. To top it all off, and mostly the reason why Talon was killed by his clan was that he messed with Camulus (the celt god of war) and he cursed Talon for eternity.<BR>Talon then becomes a Dark Hunter and part of his deal with Acheron (DH leader) was for Acheron to make Talon learn how to push all his pain away so he could go on living without feeling. All is good and great for 1500 years until Talon meets Sunshine, an artist that helps him after he saved her life from Daimons. Soon they find themselves drawn to each other and they begin a relationship that they have no clue wether it will last or not. But shortly after that Talon finds out who Sunshine really is, and that will explain their intense relationship, and is shaken to his core, but mostly now he knows he must let her go for her own safety.<BR>The story is very good, but for me it was nto as good as the 1st DH story (Night Pleasures). But it held its own.<BR>The story is longer because there is more information on this one and you have to pay careful attention because many characters are introduced to us, and a little bit of their history is given. Zarek was one of my favorite new character, and we can tell the kid is really damaged on the inside (cant wait to read his story). But we also learn of the lives of soem shape shifters (Were Hunters) and I seriously fell in love with Vane and cant wait until his story is out!!<BR>The book I highly recomed, but as I said before it holds much required information for future books, so pay attention when u read it, although I find that paying attention won't be much of a problem.	2003-07-10
US	34126895	RGCJTYTHED4IH	0380820854	391607547	To Sir Phillip, With Love (Bridgerton Series, Book 5)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Missing Lady Whistledown.	This is the 5th installment in the Bridgerton series of JQ. <BR>To be completetly honest, I think the previous books were better.<BR>This is not to say that Eloise's story is bad, but I thought it could have been shorter and/or more eventful.<BR>The story basically begins where Romancing Mr Bridgerton (my personal favorite) left.<BR>Eloise decides to go and visit Sir Phillip without telling anyone, including him.<BR>Sir Phillip is a young widow that was married to one of Eloise's cdistant cousin. Then Eloise writes to Sir Phillip to express her condolences on the sudden death of Marina. That's how tehir friendship begins. They write to each other for a year and after an invitation he made to Eloise, for a visit to see if they could match for a marriage, she decides to go, just to satisfy her curiosity. Little did she know that he would be the opposite of her and that he had two thunderstorms in his house, that were also better known as his twin children.<BR>In the story they have to surpass the not so many obstacles that lay ahead of them. The story starts really well, but then it drops and gets really slow, then, well into the book, the brothers finally make a hell of an appearence and spice up the novel, but as soon as they leave, the story drops again, and then towards the end, it picks up again. That's the way I saw it.<BR>There's no appearence of Penelope, Eloise's best friend and Colin Bridgerton's wife, which not only surprised me, but kind of left me dissapointed.<BR>Colin is about the funniest of all the brothers and really lifts the story. We get to meet Gregory Bridgerton. For the 1st time he actually makes an appearence insted of just being mentioned, which was nice for a change. <BR>And very very noticiable absence was that of Lady Whistledown. I seriously missed her entries. As a substitute, and not a very good one, although it was fun in some points, was the letters Eloise had written to some member of her family or her friend Penelope during her life. <BR>The story was nice, but not her best. I was dissapointed at points, but then I was extremely pleased at others. If u r a JQ fan read it. It is not as good as Romancing Mr. Bridgerton and The Viscount Who Loved Me, but it is still a pretty good book, plus is part of the Bridgerton series, and any book that has those men in it, I will read in nano seconds!	2003-07-07
US	34126895	RPO1D00J2Z43Z	0380815524	649257409	Just the Way You Are	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Fabulous!!	Alli has loved Sam all her life. Sam has loved Tessa (Alli's sister) since they were children. Tessa and Sam were an item back in high school, and Alli always ended up as the 3rd wheel.<BR>Then Tessa, the beauty of the sisters, is offered the opportunity of a lifetime to go modeling and she takes it leaving Sam by himself with a broken heart and a lot of alcohol. Alli took the chance she had been waiting for all her life, and comforted Sam in ways she had only dreamed of.<BR>9 years later and Alli and Sam are unhappily married with a child that came from that night of broken hearts and alcohol.<BR>Sam seems to resent Alli for tying him up to a life he never asked for (however he adores his daughter), but has grown accostumed to.<BR>Alli, on the other hand, is sick and tired of being the cause of so much unhappines in Sam's life and to add insult to serious injury, she finds out that Sam has not forgotten Tessa after all this years and actually keeps wondering of what his life would have been with her in it, and without Alli and Megan (their daughter) in it. So she decides to set Sam free, even if it hurts her like crazy. <BR>No, dont think she does it for the noble reasons, she is sick of loving Sam with all her heart while all this time he has never told her that he loves her, or anything similar for that matter.<BR>Now, Sam is confused, and angry at Alli for separating him from his family and most importantly his daughter, after he has finally resigned himself to that life, but no matter what, Alli is not backing down. She is sure she deserves a man that loves her back, and she doesn't want to keep on going with her life without ever having experienced that feeling.<BR>To add a nice twist to the story, Alli and Tessa's gradma suffer a stroke and Tessa and Alli must now face each other after 9 years of emotional injuries, hatred and tons and tons of resentmet.<BR>The story is simply beautiful and so beleivable. I was so enthralled in the story that I simply could not put it down and had to finish it that same day I got it. <BR>Alli is a real wounded woman and simpathizing with her is so easy, even when she is behaving like a child. And how could you not after putting yourself in her shoes, however, she takes control of things most of the time and does the right thing as well.<BR>Tessa is not as likeable as Alli, but she is not hateable by any chance. You can see her point and understand why she is seeking for a second chance with Sam, the man she thought was meant for her, before her sister came crashing into her relationship. <BR>Sam is a great man, he's so very real and palpable.<BR>Overall the story is impossible to put down. It's funny, heartwarming, sincere, bealivable, sad and beautiful. I highly recomend it. My only complaint is that I wish the epilogue had been longer and gone into more detail!!	2003-06-19
US	34126895	R1VB6WON1CI8YF	0515108952	659245720	Garters	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A real sweet story.	Cleav and Esme could not come from more different backgrounds even wanting to.<BR>Cleav is the town's general store owner and is a gentleman through and through.<BR>Esme is young and smart, but she is not educated because she is very very poor. Her father does not work... he doesnt do anyhting for that matter, except being the laziest man on earth. And her 2 older twin sisters do not help her at all and the only thing that fills their brains besides attractive men is air!<BR>Esme is in charge of her whole family, from feeding and clothing to keeping that little cave (yes indees cave) that they live in as clean as humanly possible.<BR>She's tired of the life she's leading and decides that the best way to get out of a dead end life she and her family have is by marrying someone with money... and who would be a better candidate than Cleav? He's still young, hardworking, handsome and owns a house that is could fit an small army but is only lived by him and his mother.<BR>So she ventures down the mountain to gain the affection of Cleav. Little did she know that the minute she would be eye to eye with those beautiful pale blue eyes (that she now sees in a whole new light) she would actually notice that he is a beautiful man.<BR>Soon she stciks to him like glue and follows him everywhere, just so he doesnt get a chance to forget she exists, but what started as something practical, has now turned into something more powerful for both of them, but particularly for Esme. Now she really wants to be his wife and would do anything in her power to get him for herself.<BR>Cleav and Esme make a great couple. He's at first so reluctant to marry her, but he cant stop thinking about those legs of hers wrapped around his waist (talk about steamy!) and Esme wants nothing but to be the perfect wife for him.<BR>Their romance is so beautiful and so real. Before she realizes that her feelings for him are love she is really selfish and protective of him, but once those feelings beging to evolve and she finally realizes that she feels a tremendous amount of love for him she leaves her selfishness and even humbles herself in order to make the perfect wife for him, to make him love her, to not humiliate him.<BR>The story is really really sweet and the characters are a blast. However her father and sisters truly drove me insane and I still have no idea how she put up with them the way she did!<BR>Overall, great read, go for it, you wont regret it!	2003-06-16
US	34126895	R1JDT7TQ0LM8QY	0553761951	485892975	Courting Miss Hattie	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Looking at peaches in a whole new light!	This is my 1st book by Ms. Morsi, and beleive you me, it wont be the last.<br />This is the story of Hattie Colfax and Reed Tyler. They are both real good friends despite that Hattie is older than Reed for 5 years. She's by NO means your typical beauty or pretty at all, but she has a golden heart and an independence enviable by any women in her time. She owns a farm and Reed works the farm until he gathers enough money to buy it for himself and his fiancee.<br />Hattie is now 29 and an \\"old spinster\\" until Ancil Drayton's wife dies leaving him with 7 children and a farm to tend. So he decides to court Hattie in order to gain a wife, a mother for his children and maybe a little something extra (hey I cannot give the whole story away).<br />Tyler learns this and is appaled by Hattie going out with old Drayton. He doesnt know what to do now and his feelings as confusing as they could have gotten. And to makes matters worse he teaches Hattie how to do somethign called \\"peach\\" which, needless to say, they both like more than they should have!<br />With some great secondary characters spicing up this terrific novel, the Hattie and Reed's story is fantastic and a treat to read.<br />They must overcome the obstacles that come their way, but most of all, they must overcome their own ideas of what they want for the rest of their lives and see if what they feel for each other is love or they simply care a little too much for each other.<br />The story has nothing that is unrealistic. The events that occur throughout the book were things that could have happened back in their day, but I think that only enriches the book. The villans are not that bad and i think one could relate to any of the characters one way or the other.<br />In short I loved this book till the very end of it and my only complain was that it ended to soon!<br />I loved the relationship Reed and Hattie have and how, eventually they realize their true feelings and how their past actions had always been affected by those feelings that were hidden but always there!<br />Highly reccomend!!!!!!!!!elings that were hidden but always there!<BR>Highly reccomend!!!!!!!!!	2003-06-10
US	34126895	R25KDTT9R5E58C	0373078722	574758901	Everyday, Average Jones (Tall, Dark & Dangerous, Book 4)	Books	3	11	14	N	N	3 3/4 stars.	Everyday Average Jones is the 3rd installment in the S. Brockmann Tall, Dark and Dangerous series.<BR>Harlan \\"Cowboy\\" Jones is a Navy SEAL. He belongs to the Alpha Squad and is one of the bests in his field. <BR>He is sent into a mission in the Middle East where he and the Alpha Squad must rescue 3 hostages from the American Embassy. Cowboy is struck by the image of the picture of one of the hostages, Melody.<BR>Alpha Squan enters the embassy and rescue the 3 hostages, but they all must split because part of the mission went awry and if they stick together they will get caught.<BR>Melody finds herself in the company of Cowboy and they soon bothe develop a tremendous bond that comes from a hostage-rescuer relationship... and from something more. She comes to trust him with her life completely until they are both out of danger and she is safely tucked in her hotel bed. But once in the hotel they both know they can act upon their feelings, and so they do, spending almost an entire week together, before he is sent somewhere else. But not before Melody makes clear that she wishes nothing more from their affair that what they enjoyed during 6 days, so she breks it off (she has a more deep reason and a valid one I must admit).<BR>7 months later Cowboy is in Virginia and as close to Melody as he could be (she lives in Boston), so he pays her a visit since he hasnt been able to forget her in those 7 months. Thats when he finds out Melody is pregnat... with his child. He wants to give the child his name and marry Mel so he can right her, but she plain and simple refuses. She feels she can not trust him with her heart and knows that the only reason he wants to marry her is because of the baby.<BR>I found this story was sweet and cute, but it was not much compared to the 1st 2 installments of the series. Brockmann seems to want to fill in the blanks of the story with secondary plots and characters that could be so well developed, but they aren't. Cowboy's specialty was supposedly Psychology (all Alpha Squad members have a specialty) but Brockmann did not explored it at all. She mentions it but leaves the rest blank, it seemd to me that she did not do as much research in the psychology field as she did in the SEAL field. I didnt like that because in all honesty, it made Cowboy seem not knowledgeable at all about this particular field. However Brockmann has so much information on the SEAL's that she seems to put all she knows (repetitively) about them and their trainning throughout the book and even in places it doesn't seem to fit.<BR>Overall it is somewhat entertainning, but it was a dissapointment for me since I was expecting so much more. For me it was longer that it should have been, and certain things are not well covered. However we get to see a more active role of Harvard in this book and we get to know and like him (I beleive the next installment in his story).<BR>I would recomend this book, however, but I would not run to get it. It was fun and sweet, but it was nothign from another world.	2003-06-07
US	34126895	RVYOJ5LAS7FO9	0440241162	273850052	Nerd in Shining Armor	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Wishing for my nerd in shining armor	Jackson \\"Jack\\" Farley has lusted over Genevive Terrence for months... actually since the first time he saw her at the company they both work. She's a secretary and he's a programer and lives immerse in his computer and his own virtual reality.<BR>Genevive is beautiful and sophisticated and is everything Jack wants. Unfurtunately for Jack, Genevive thinks that Nick (her boss) is the man of her dreams. So when Nick finally asks her to go with him to a \\"meeting trip\\" to Maui she is more than willing to go... with a good amount of condoms for a day! However, and too bad for Genevive and Nick's plans, Jack is also sent in this trip to fix a program for a company in Maui. Little did they knew that Nick had other plans of his own, so Jack and Genevive end up stranded in an island far from Maui. No one knows they are there. They have no food, water, but they DO have a very nice host (a shark that comes out everytime they hit the water). Soon Jack discovers that Genevive is not as sophisticated as he thought, but instead of being turned off by this new image of his goddess, he's even more attracted (talk about prince charming!) And Genevive  discovers that this nerd is a knight in shining armor, more than willing to do anything it takes to keep her safe (God, I need one of this!).<BR>The story is well paced, funny, heart warming and very real. It is not \\"Oh my god! I'm in love\\" after 5 minutes of being in the island together. Their attraction grows and you can see, easily, why she falls in love with him, and why she fears this. But even if he didnt have enough self confidence to go after her before, after everything that happens between them in the island, he gains some self confidence and is willing to gain her and prove her that what they have is AT LEAST worth a shot.<BR>One of the things I really loved about the book, is that despite the fact that she's a hottie, she has brains and manners and even more, she's not fussy about things and is very nice to Jack even before they got stranded. In short she's as nice as they get. And Jack is not the typical alpha male (thank god for that), but he puts his foot down when he has to. He's too cute for his own good. He has brains, manners, chivalry, sweetness and firmness.... and a body to drool over!<BR>I really did enjoy this book and I highly recomend it.<BR>I just wish I could get a Jack for myself!!!!	2003-05-24
US	34126895	R1QCI8Q4L4IHFV	0515135364	159248128	Impractical Magic (Magical Love)	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Not quite as magical!	I'm a big fan of Karen Fox and her creativity simply amazes me. Unfurtunately this book was not up to my standards of her. <BR>This story is about Brandon Goodfellow, who made his 1st appeareance in Buttercup Baby, and Rose Thayer, who also made her 1st appeareance in Buttercup baby.<BR>Rose is the daughter of Ex-queen of the pillywigins (faeries) and Brandon is the son of the son of a Greek God. <BR>Brandon has always been in love with magic and has always wanted to have magic, therefore he becomes the best illusionist there is. <BR>Rose inherits all the magic from her mom and is also a Fae. However she is raised as a mortal and considers herlself so.<BR>Rose and Brandon have known each other since birth and were the best of friends, until at age 13, she devolops her powers. Brandon was told the truth about Rose and that very same day, when he wanted to announce his parents he was going to marry Rose when they grew up, he decided to evade her once his parents told him the truth about Rose. <BR>Now 17 years later Brandon is about to perform his biggest illusion and Rose is about to do her last expose... on Brandon.<BR>They made a deal and she stays with him during the tour in order to gain knowledge on how he does his illussions. <BR>The tension rises, and some ugly truths are told eventually, but the love that was there once, is not gone after 17 years, thus they must face their differences, their jelousy and resentments if they want to have a life together.<BR>The book was entertaining, but quite a dissapointment. There are plenty of inconsistencies. If you have read Buttercup baby you'll notice plenty of them, if your havent, dont sweat it. However Buttercup Baby was by far much better than this one. <BR>In short the book was OK but never her best or even close to it!<BR>I have read some of her previous work and Buttercup Baby and Cupid's Melody are my favorite, especially Cupid's Melody. This book is not even near the same neighborhood those other 2 books were.<BR>There's also another story about Rose's cousin Sequoia and another Fae, Ewan. Apparently Mrs.Fox plans on doing another book on their story, but in all honesty I dont see the story coming together, because it is pretty much solved in this book. So, unless she can pull another story like Cupid's Melody (Anna and Nick,(The protagonists of Cupid's Melody),appear in Prince of Charming already married), then I dont think the book will be as good.<BR>Overall the book was sweet, and the story line is definitely creative, but definitely not her best and not as creative.<BR>For this book Mrs. Fox Magic apparently was low!	2003-04-29
US	34126895	R2GGE89B34AWJX	055358183X	623737680	The Bride and the Beast (Once Upon a Time)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Better than the fairy tale!	In this wonderful book we will find the story of \\"Beauty and the Beast\\", the great part is that it is NOTHING  like it! It is far much better! It surpases the original fairy tale, and it is much more bealivable than the original version.<br />Gwendolyn Wilder is the only sensible person in all Ballybliss, Scottland. She has 3 sisters, all of whom are of extreme beauty and have the perfect body. Gwen does not view herself as a beauty and the fact that the people in her town including her sisters tell her so and that she eats too much, does not help to the poor concept Gwen holds of herlsef. But do not let this confuse you, Gwen is smart, and has a witt as well as a tongue that could put to shame most heroines of romance novels!She holds nothign in and speaks her mind. And 15 years ago she proved this by standing proud and tall agains the son of the laird of Ballybliss. He was 15 years at that time, and Gwen had fancied herself in love with him, until she fell on top of him and he mocked her unintentionally, so she defended herself and told him a couple of things that left him more than amused. However that afternoon was the last time she saw Bernard MacCallough, for that same night the castle of his father was attacked by the red coats and everyone in the castle was killed.<br /><br />Gwen grows up to be a pretty woman with a body that has curves. She's a real woman (and thank god for that!).<br />Unfurtunately she is offered as a sacrifice to the \\"Dragon\\" (The Beast) that lives in a ruined and long time abbandoned castle, the castle her beloved Bernard used to inhabite.<br />The Dragon never shown his face to Gwen, but treats her very well and does not use her in any way that the people of her town gave her up for. He gives her everything imaginable materially speaking as well as her confidence back. As their relationship grows and evolves she finds herself more than attracted to the Dragon, she finds herself in love with him. How is it possible she loves 2 different men during her life she does not know, but she knows that as a child she had adored Bernard and woman she loves the Dragon.<br />But the Dragon holds a secret that could easily destroy both of them and could drive her away from him, so he fears so show his face to her and tell her his real identity, for the Dragon is in Ballybliss to seek vengance and make pay the traitor that had caused the redcoats to attack the castle and kill the MacCallough's.<br />The story is facinating as well as entertaining. It is much much better than the fairy tale. It is very tender and heart warming and to top it all of it is hilarious! I know I have my favorite 3 lines of the book memorized, and I just finish reading it!<br />Ms Medeiros is a breath of fresh air and puts fairy tales to shame!	2003-04-24
US	34126895	R2Z9YMRRA986U2	0060009241	418168365	See Jane Score	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Funny and fresh.	I could seriously not put this book down. I had to read all 363 pages as fast as I could and I did. I began the book on a morning and finish it next day by lunch, and that was mostly b/c I had classes in between! This book is fresh and creative... and funny.<BR>Jane is as plain as they come. Luc is as hot as they get! <BR>He barely glances her way, and she thinks he's a jerk. Yep, they r the perfect couple.<BR>Jane is a reporter for the Seattle's Time. She has a column that is pretty much \\"sex and the city\\", but one day her luck changes and she is sent to cover the sports hockey section... by traveling with the team. They are very superstiscious and dont like a reporter in their same space b/c that could lead to bad publicity if the reporter found out something they didnt wantes published. They decide she's bad luck, so she gets fired, however after a little scene in the locker room where Jane gaves the team a little taste of what true class is, they start winning and they want Jane back. Luc finally convinces her of taking the job and their relationship begins to evolve. <BR>Soon Jane and Luc find their selves attracted to each other and the story gets steamy.<BR>Jane has a few secrets and Luc is shocked to find that he could ever like a woman as simple and plain (a \\"natural\\" woman) as Jane. On top of that he must deal with a teenage sister that only has him for family, a rocky past and the fear of getting injured (just like every athlete).<BR>The story is very sweet, funny and fresh. It's a breath of fresh air among the many romance novels out there. And it is a great companion for anytime anyone has free time to read a good book!<BR>I definitely reccomend it!	2003-04-22
US	34126895	R25UGMVT1TEUE6	0312979975	283452346	Fantasy Lover	Books	5	4	5	N	Y	He's the perfect lover	Julian of Macedon, a man who used to strike fear in his enemies just by the mere mention of his name, a man who was fearless and immortal in battle, a man who fought with conviction was trapped into a scroll and condemned to be a sex slave for any women who conjured him out of the scrolls.<BR>2000 years later Grace Alexander has a boring life, until her best friend Selena (who is as weird as her family and beleives in everything of the occult) gives Grace this particular book with the picture of the perfect man inside. Grace does not beleive for a second that by simply calling him Julian will appear in her home and please her anyway she wants for an entire month. However she does it and voila! Julian is in her living room... very much NAKED!<BR>As the story evolves we learn about Julian's tumultuos past, as well as Grace's. How the get to know each other and how Grace refuses to use Julian as a lover, just like she was used several years ago in a bet. But in an unlikekly event they fall in love with each other and even before that Grace is convinced that she will help Julian break the curse and set him free. <BR>The book is absolutetly wonderful with humor, tenderness, steamy scenes and a painful past so well written I found myself crying for Julian. Ms. Kenyon is a fantastic writter and I will read anything that has her name in it!	2003-04-21
US	34126895	R1RIAXYQH3EUNV	0312979983	76852490	Night Pleasures (Dark-Hunter, Book 2)	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Ms. Kenyon ROCKS!	Oh. My. God! Night Pleasures was a pleasure to read! It was very very funny, tender, heart warming, sad at some points and most importantly it is very well written. I dont think I enjoyed a book so much since I read Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire! This book is rich in narrative, the story is fantastically original and well written, the characters are so facinating and 3 dimensional, you get to feel EXACTLY what they r feeling!<BR>Kyrian if Thrace is a Dark Hunter, (this is the 1st book of the Dark Hunter series, but follows Fantasy Lover), who is more than 2000 years old. He has gone through hell and back and does not trust anyone. His past story is really sad, and I had to cry because there's no way to help but emphasize with him.<BR>Amanda Devoreux comes from a family that wrote the handbook on paranormal and weirdness, but she so wants to be normal. However she really loves her family especially her twin Tabitha. <BR>Suddenly her dull boring life becomes a real rollercoater when she finds herself handcuffed to Kyrian, thus all hell breaks loose as they try to escape a Daimon first, then get un-handcuffed, then Kyrina tries to keep Tabitha and Amanda safe, then he tries to get the Daimon who's causing more havoc than any other Daimon and so on and so forth!<BR>The book is great, the imagination of Ms. Kenyon is incomparable and endless. If u r looking for a story that is fast paced, but very well elaborated,with an excellent narrative, fantastic details and a plot that is more original than anything else (well maybe is right there with the Harry Potter series, which i may add is not only for children!) and a romance story that would leave in shame timeless classical lovers such as Romeo and Juliet (only with a happy ending), then RUN to get this book. I cannot emphasize enough how much i loved this book... and Kyrian and Amanda's story. I loved it so much I finished it in less than 24 hours!	2003-04-20
US	34126895	R1RE0X3PAHQMKN	1551666804	962070285	Forever Blue (Tall, Dark & Dangerous, Book 2)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Blue is  Red Hot!	Blue McCoy is a Navy Seal who is the typical quiet, introverted, but excellent soldier. He doesnt mess with anyone as long as they dont mess with him or anyone he cares fore.<BR>Lucy Tait was 14 when she first met Blue in High School. She was a freshman and he was a senior... and he saved her [life]! Ever since she saw him she has been infatuated with him, and despite all the time that has passed, when Blue returns to Hatboro Creek, where they are both from, Lucy feels the same butterflies dancing in her stomach.<BR>Blue has returned to his town because his brother Gerry is getting married to Blue's old sweetheart Jenny. And the minute Lucy and Blue lay eyes on each other the ... attraction is more than palpable. <BR>Unfurtunately for both of them things get complicated and nasty with the sudden [demise] of Blue's brother... and with the primary suspect, which happens to be Blue. <BR>Everything indicates that Blue has killed Gerry but Lucy knows better and Blue is convinced that someone is setting him up big time. There's so much ... tension in that little town that u could cut the air with a very old and not so sharp knife.<BR>The story is my favorite so far from the Navy Seal's series of S.Brockmann. It is tender, funny, and thrilling. I though it was a great read and I liked it better than Prince Joe. I think Blue is a very likable guy and I wish I had one just like him!<BR>Overall, Blue is Hot Red!	2003-04-20
US	34126895	RGWRN5GO5Q9L6	155166948X	34594744	Prince Joe (Tall, Dark & Dangerous, Book 1)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Joe the Prince of Princes!	Joe Cat is a Navy SEAL, and damn proud of it too. Veronica St. John comes from the upper crust and her best friend (and sister in law) is the Princess of Ustanzia. Veronica's new job is to be the public relations person of the Prince of Ustanzia, Tedric, who happens to be a snob and a useless pittyful handsome guy. Someone tries to kill Tedric and he decides that the so important tour in the US can be held until he knows he's safe, however the goverment in the US does not like that idea and Tedric tells them that they can put someone in his place, to pretend to be Tedric. That someone is Joe Catalanotto who years earlier had saved the Prince's life during a SEAL operation. Thus the mess begins and despite it all Joe and Veronica feel extremely attracted to each other. But Joe has some ghosts that still hunt him since his childhood and adolescenece and still has a chip on his shoulder. Veronica thinks Joe is the type of guy that sleeps with any hot woman that crosses his path. At the end Joe proves to be a much better Prince than Tedric and he as well as Veronica must face their demons if they want to be truly happy... together.<br />I enjoyed this book, but it has many holes I didnt like. For one, the 1st chapter is a tad slow, but it's bearable. You get to really know Joe, he's a great guy, but Veronica stays two dimensional. You get to like her, but at points I wished she was a bit more assertive, specially since she holds a very important job. I wish Ms. Brockmann had added more information on Veronica in order to gain a better perspective of her.<br />Overall it is a pretty good read and, despite the weaknessess of the story I enjoyed it very much and so not regret for one minute reading it, since it was very tender, funny and entertaining.	2003-04-15
US	34126895	RY6SHWGTRJMF6	0515134910	529458266	Cupid's Melody (Magical Love Romance Series)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Perfect Romance!!!!!!!!!	WOW! I can't beleive I was so lucky as to come across this book! It is a great love story. I cried, I laughed, I bit my nails, I sighed and I got exasperated. I read the book in less than 12 hours (including a few hours of sleep and classes in between). <BR>This story is about Nic Stone, a Fae. He's as hot as they come and as nice and as gentlemen-ish as they dont make anymore, (if that makes sense). He fell in love with a mortal and since he's inmortal he feared she would grow old and die and leave him, thus he goes to Titania (big mistake) in order to ask Titania to make Anna (Nic's wife) be inmortal. Titania agrees, but she doesnt tell Nic that in order for Anna to become inmortal she has to die and be reborn. 25 years later Nic thinks he has found Anna in Dianna, a famous, (and in my opinion a spoiled brat, but nice in her own way), singer. That is until he faces Stacey, Dianna's sister, and begins to wonder how's it possible that Stacey ignites in him a fire that only his wife Anna could ignite, and Dianna doesn't. The story is beautiful and heartwarming. I loved every minute of it and my only regret is that there wasn't more!	2003-04-09
US	34126895	R26XBJ1TQMG1EK	0380820846	788536867	Romancing Mister Bridgerton (Bridgerton Series, Book 4)	Books	5	18	18	N	N	10 out of 5	Penelope Featherington has loved Colin Bridgerton (3rd of the Bridgerton clan) since she was 16. He never paid much attention to her and she knew that she could never have a man like him. She wasnt beautiful by society's standards and she was just a tad chubby when she was introduced to society in order to gain a husband. Unfurtunately, no one looked her way and Colin only danced with her in those balls out of pitty, and because his mother order him to (and you dont mess with Lady Bridgerton). 10 years later Penelope is 28 and used to the idea that she's a spinster and she will remain so. Colin has barely seen her in those 10 years since he spends too much time traveling, but when he returns he sees a different Penelope, because she is slowly starting to speak her mind instead of being so quiet as she used to. There's much more to the story. The plot is so entertaining I skipped a study session for a final so i could keep reading the book. I simply loved everything, the characters are well written, the plot is great, the dialogue is fantastic as well as funny and tender. In short this is my favorite JQ book! Highly recomend it! Plus there's a very interesting surprise as well! and Lady Whistledown is more superb than usual!	2003-04-07
US	34126895	R35KNY4KDWUU83	0515131695	835995974	Buttercup Baby (Magical Love)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	So very magical	This book is like sunshine in a bottle... well in a book! Ariel used to be the queen of Pillywiggins, until she decided to defend one of her few friends (if not her only) and son of Oberon, Robin (Prince of Chanrming). Then Titania banishes her from her court leaving Ariel without a purpose. That is until she is sent by Oberon to see how his grandson (Robin's boy) is doing. And thats when everything goes haywire. Suddenly she wants to have a baby to fill the empityness in her and she decided that Rand Thayer would be the perfect man to father her child. But things go in a downward spiral as he refuses to do so, then she tricks him, then her magic goes chaotic on her, and she cant return home until the baby is born... or at least thats what she thinks! This was a very sweet book and the characters are so well crafted you feel like you actually know them. And Ariel's naivette is so sweet and real (given that she is a faery) that she gives you a heartwarming feeling! I highly recommend the book! Plus there's a bonus love story in it, which i wish i could have seen in more detail but none the less was beautiful and sweet! In short this book charmed my socks off!	2003-03-23
US	34126895	R2RME0Z0VRN62G	0380815575	722221564	The Viscount Who Loved Me (Bridgerton Series, Bk. 2)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Fabulous!	This book was a treat to read, a real delight! This story is about Kate and Anthony (The eldest of the Bridgeton 8 children). He is a rake and a rogue, but very devoted to his family. Unfurtunately he has to take over his family soon in life (at 18) because of the sudden unexpected death of his father. Kate on the other hand is a very nice woman, but she is also strong, and unfurtunately not as beautiful as her sister, and unfurtunately because everyone compares her to her sister, but Kate's so used to it that she doesnt mind anymore. 12 years after the death of his father Anthony decides to find a wife, a smart, attractive, humorous and great to get along with wife. He sets his eyes on Edwina, Kate's sister, but Kate will not allow a man like Anthony (no matter how reformed our rogue/rake is) take her sister as his wife. Thus this 2 characters clash! Julia Quinn has a very unique writting style which i completely admire and love. She presents this story in such a realistic way you feel like you are right there with  the characters feeling what they feel. Also, and a major plus, its that Anthony and Kate's relationship evolves slowly, it is not from over night, which is something very hard to find in similar plots in other romance novels. Quinn is easily one of my favorite authors even though i recently stumble upon her magnificent work!	2003-03-16
US	34126895	R3NE27L0HRPY2C	0380819635	813843722	Lost in Your Arms (Governess Bride, Book 5)	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	A very tender story.	I rather found the title sort of out of place, but none the less, it made sense. The book was very well written and the characters are very likeable. If you actually havent read the summary in the dust jacket of the hardcover version of the book you will fall from your chair, when you find out the major secret that Dodd, gives her readers almost at the middle. In my personal opinion, i was dissapointed to have read the summary inside the dustjacket, but alas, i have learned my lesson.<BR>Enid is a very nice, and strong woman. she has gone through a lot and had the misfurtune to stumble upon Steven Maclean, her husband, when she is very young (17). She has an infatuation with him, but she soon learns that he is nothing but a selfish party boy, who also happens to be very jelous of his cousin Kiernan Maclean who is the head of the Maclean clan in Scotland, and despises Enid thinking of her as a gold digger, but Steven leaves her and she then becomes a nurse and moves to the house of a very interesting old lady, which she actually appreciates, that is until she receives news, 10 years later, that her husband has been found, but is gravely injured and to top it all off, he has amnesia. The story is more complex, but thats the core of it. I tremendoulsly enjoyed it, and could barely put it down. Definitely recomend it. Very good twist as long as u dont read the summary inside the dustjacket, thus U HAVE BEEN WARNED!!! hehe	2003-03-14
US	34126895	R28VO5NRO867T3	0373259565	492500893	Mr. November (Men To The Rescue)	Books	3	1	2	N	Y	Good, but i wouldnt rush to get it.	The book was fairly good. The humor in it was very  \\"Fosteresque\\", which is a good thing in case you haven't read anythign from Lori Foster. However, I found that i enjoyed Treat Her Right much better than Mr. November. Josh is a very likable character, Amanda, on the other hand, isn't. I'm not saying she's a bad character, she isn't, she's rather sweet and i would dare to say that some of you would even indentify with her, to a certain extent, but i found that after viewing Del (Caught in the Act) and Wynn (Treat Her Right), as 2 very independent, sexy, caring and strong women, seeing Amanda was a dissapointment. But she is not as bad as she could have been. The story is nice, but its nothing from the other world. I say it could have been better, but then again I'm a very difficult audience. I recomend it, if you have nothing else to do, or not another book to read.	2003-03-14
US	34126895	R3LKKU59F614CJ	0446611808	118908960	Envy	Books	5	1	2	N	Y	Simply a delight to read.	Envy is, easily, the best book I've read from Sandra Brown (and I've read plenty) Envy is a story inside a story and they are both webbed together splendidly. This story is about 2 friends with a basic same goal in life... and how far are they willing to go to achieve that goal. The characters are fabulous, all the dimensions S.Brown gives them are simply delightful, though i did have to say that our dear heroine here could be a tad more stronger, but thats just my personal view. I have never engrosed in a story as much as i did in this to the point that i had goose bumps and chills everytime our fantastic villan enters a scene... and he is a villian in every sense of the word! It is an addictive novel and if you will only read one Sandra Brown book this year, i certainly say that Envy should be it! She outdid herself this time, not that she hasnt before, but this story was a perfect blend of real romance and a real thriller. Dont walk to your store to get it... RUN!!!!	2003-03-14
US	34126895	R24EPUQTQ3LBOF	0446364312	278758699	Tempest in Eden	Books	5	3	4	N	Y	Great book	I thought this should be an interesting book when i 1st read the summary and i was very wrong, this is a very good book! Shay and Ian are as far from similar as they come, but they compliment each other beautifully. I know many people think that the ending was not good but i think it was from my view they both came to an understanding and an agreement. She didnt compromise her careear and he accepted that very good. It was very touching and the love scenes, (even if he's a minister) were very steamy! The guy is good ;-D Anyways i highly recomend it and many of her books (except Eloquent Silence, but that's another story hehe).	2003-02-08
US	34126895	R3EWCL9GEUGK3E	0515132020	724927014	Heaven and Earth (Three Sisters Island Trilogy)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	She who's Earth!	This was a superb book. I started teh trilogy with this book and i do not regret it at all. Roberts does a great job presenting love,compasion and justice in it's most elemental yet most powerful ways. Ripley is truly a heroine. She's very down to earth, and stubborn as a mule, but you really love her from the 1st moment, b/c she's real she feels and bleeds and loves with an intense immensity. Mac is a perfect hero. He's not the perfect \\"Stud\\" as in many romance novels, he's so very real, and yes he's handsome to the bone, but he's not perfect which makes him even more appealing. He forgets things all the time yet is so sensitive so smart. He doesnt feel threatened by Ripley's authority and respects her. He doesnt mind her taking control, but he's no fool. And the Magik in the novel was greatly presented. I've read many things from the Wiccan and kept myself informed with their rituals and way of life and i beleive that ROberts does a great job at portraying many real things inside the fantastic. In short, I loved this book, from the cover to the back! I would give it 100 stars if i could.	2003-02-08
