US	34163391	R1BBHMIAT2VF42	0451460464	45319253	The Protector's War: A Novel of the Change	Books	4	8	11	N	N	A Fast Paced Sequel To "Dies the Fire"	The sequel to the Stirling's post apocalyptic novel Dies the Fire starts off in an odd place, England. It's been eight years since some unknown force for some unknown reason decided to flip the switch on our lovely planet's ability to use most of its 20th Century technology (electricity, guns, etc.). In Dies the Fire we follow the people that the Change has affected in a pretty limited area, mostly Oregon and parts of Idaho, so to open half way across the world to see the Change in effect in England was a bit of a surprise. There, the change has had similar effects, causing mass chaos and death before a few enterprising soldiers helped the Royal Family escape, and later brought them back to reestablish order. And now, one of the key soldiers who helped pull the nation out of chaos is being rewarded by being imprisoned for dare suggesting that little things like Parliament be restored.    The more things change.    Thus starts The Protector's War. Nigel Loring, said soldier, is rescued and begins an exciting and adventure filled journey, past cannibals and pirates to a more familiar setting, Post Change's Williamette Valley. Meanwhile, in the Williamette, there hasn't been much of a change in the tensions between the harsh Overloard The Protector, and his rival heads of states, The Bear Killer's Mike Havel, and everyone's favorite Wiccan Clan Chieftain Juniper McKenzie. Yet, things haven't been totally static, families and communities have grown, and the lands overseen by our more malevolent leaders are thriving, through hard work and cooperation.    Yet, the tensions are still there and everyone knows a War is coming. Despite the title, the War isn't exactly imminent, but it's not exactly far in the future either. In the Bear Killer Camp, Lord Bear aka Mike Havel is becoming increasingly frustrated both on the home front and with the state of affairs. Despite increasing signs of aggression, many of Havel's allies are hesitant, while at home, it is becoming increasingly obvious to his wife, that young Rudi MacKenzie, Juniper's 9 year old son, is also the son of the Bear Killer chief.    The Mackenzies themselves are feeling the pressure of approaching war, while dealing with the Harvest. The Clan Chieftain is struggling with her ingrained distain for violence and warfare, despite it's necessity, and her knowledge that a proactive strike is needed. Yet, there are people suffering within the Protector's territory, and she uses this excuse as an opportunity to send a message, or more precisely, a bit of as slap in The Lord Protector's face.    What follows is a series of skirmishes between what is simply the forces of good, and the forces of evil. There is little in the ways of ambiguity here in Stirling's exciting and fast paced second novel in the series. The Protector is evil, plain and simple, and it doesn't take long for most people to realize that. Not even our English friend Nigel Loring, who coincidentally (although many character's in this book point out there are no such things as coincidences) ends up with a group inspecting the Protectorate for chemical weapons that were left behind after the change.    One of the ironies of the book is that, despite the title, The Protector and the upcoming war are minor characters in this book. In reality, like Dies the Fire, but on a different scale, this is about communities. The leaders of the opposing clans must find a way to bring order and stability within their community while preparing for a war with a potential stronger opponent. Basically, Mike and Juniper know that in order for them to have a chance in this war, they most get their own houses in order, and create something worth fighting for. Havel deals with the issues of family, while bringing the battle to a band of roving bandits being supported secretly by The Protector.    What impressed me most about this book was the way Stirling handled potential political issues within the framework of his story. Unlike some author's he never tries to exploit scenarios to make a political statement. It would be easy to turn this into a thinly disguised ficdtionalization of current events, but he never stoops to that level. Even the religious scenes of the Wicca religion, which dominate this book, are drawn with love, yet with enough of a skeptical voice to prevent this from becoming the Wiccan version of Left Behind.    The Protector's War suffers a bit from the second book syndrome. This is definitely a set up book, a bridge between two major events, the Change and the potential Williamette War between the aligned states and The Protector. The story lines at times seem a bit scattershot, but in the end they are all pulled together nicely. Including the British subplot, and giving us a small glimpse of the world beyond Orgegon, was a pleasant surprise, and a stroke of genius by the writer. In the end, this was a well written, fully detailed novel, full of developed character and a story that leave you wanting more. While not as complete or compelling as Dies the Fire, it is a good second step in the development of the story.	2005-09-27
US	34163391	RK00VPGEDJZMU	0812562836	712611713	Symphony	Books	2	1	3	N	N	Some Interesting Characters In A Story Going Nowhere	Another on my list of Post Apocalyptic tales, Symphony is the first book of a four part series dealing with the four horsemen of the apocalypse. While the characters are interesting, the story is filled with subplots and tangents that just go nowhere. The writer has a penchant for placing characters in interesting situation, then leaving you to assume you know what happened. Yet, at many times, you guessing, which is not good. Grant takes an interesting course with humanizing the horseman, this time War, but this was done much better in Gaimen and Pratchett's Good Omens. Here, it basically humorless. The book's ending is ambiguous at best, and while this may be OK for some series, here it just makes you want to avoid picking up the next installment.	2005-08-25
US	34163391	R5XH3PRMKIK3A	0553587382	704948528	Terminal	Books	4	2	2	N	N	An Interesting Twist On An Often Used Story	Keene takes a shot at another clichd story type here. That is the desperate but good man finds out he's dying so he decides to rob a bank to leave something behind for his wife and kid. Pretty typical, but well executed with an interesting paranormal twist. Yet, what really stands out in this book is Keene's portrayal of a dying man living within a dying Pennsylvania manufacturing town. He adequately captures the feeling of desperation and of dying dreams. At times the story utilizes some very overused literary tricks, but in the end you feel the pain of the main character, no matter how stupid he is.	2005-08-25
US	34163391	R24V7DLC44630B	0765348217	313250816	The Family Trade (Merchant Princes)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Finally A Smart, Competent Displaced Fantasy Heroine	This is the first book In the Merchant Princes Series, and while the topic has been done before, a women from our world transplanted into a new world, Stross puts an interesting new spin on it. While many have compared this to Zelzaney's Amber Chronicles, this is more in line with Donaldson's Mordant's Need series, except for our heroine here is not a neurotic women with no sense of self, but a competent and strong women who knows how to handle things on her own and doesn't need some big strapping man to give her a sense of worth. Stross, typically a Science Fiction writer, invents one of the more interesting fantasy conundrums in recent history. He installs a sense of reality based ethics into a fantasy world, and maybe not intentionally, creates a interests counterpoint to many of the financial shenanigans we see in our modern world.	2005-08-25
US	34163391	RM78FSBMGQEOR	0553586033	83564466	The Darkening	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Left Behind With Some Real Creepy Monsters	With a name this corny, it has to be good! Right? Nah, not really. The book is an interesting psuedo-religious twist of the rapture theme (mass disappearances) with elements of secret society paranoia. The book starts out developing the two main characters that unknowingly are destined to save the world. There are some interesting religious themes developed here, but this is far from a christian book. While the characters are interesting and well thought out, the action scenes get bogged down and confusing and the thrills and spills become a bit mundane. It's worthwhile reading, and at times an interesting story, but don't expect great literature here.	2005-08-25
US	34163391	R3D8X53MB7ICUB	0394536738	836052615	One More Sunday	Books	4	8	9	N	N	A Fair Tale Dealing With Many Ideas	Even if I found the Travis McGee series a bit trying at times, I always believed that the late John MacDonald was one of America's finest mystery writers. Some of his stand alone books, especially Condominium and The Executioners (the novel Cape Fear was based on) were top notch action packed tales. In One More Sunday, MacDonald takes on a new target, the Mega-Church. While uncovering the sexual escapades, hypocrisy and financial misdeeds of his characters, he also paints a portrait of many good meaning and faithful people who truly have the best intentions, but get carried away in there execution. Religious figures can be easy targets, but MacDonald looks beyond the bad to show you both sides.	2005-08-25
US	34163391	RQ202ZB9WTZ5K	044651344X	216119480	Nature's End: The Consequences of the Twentieth Century	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A More Coherent Story Than Warday. Good Science Fiction	The writing team that brought you the classic Post Nuclear psuedo-autobiography Warday, team up again to tackle another potential disaster, this time it's pollution gone wild. In this ecological disater tale, Strieber and Kunetka use some of the devices they used during Warday, particularly Government Reports, Newspaper Articles and witness interviews to give the feeling your reading a true story. Yet, unlike Warday, this not a \\"fake documentary\\" but a good, action filled story with so very well drawn characters. I'm not sure of the science behind the whole situation that the writers use, or whether this cautionary tale is even remotely likely, biut as a story, it works. Here they uses some classic science fiction themes reminiscent of Phillip K. Dick, and they do it well.	2005-08-25
US	34163391	R19O5HMM32SKNK	0843954159	160204437	City of the Dead	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Unique Zombie Tale	This is the sequel to The Rising, one of the better zombie novels of the past few years. The Rising was an average book, with lots of borrowing from classic post apocalyptic tales. Especially McCammon's Swan Song. Keene's zombies are unique, in the fact that dead rise because they are being possessed by cross dimensional demon's that were accidentally released in a failed science experiment. These zombies are relatively intelligent and able to work together. City of the Dead is an upgrade from the first book. The characters are more fleshed out, and less whiney. They've had the time to adjust to the new world, and are starting to figure things out. Keene takes the opportunity to look at human evil and human triumph in this tale, and expand the spiritual concepts the first book only hinted at.	2005-08-25
US	34163391	R2G57S3W20NMRS	0553251465	344955922	Time Storm	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Head Trippy 70's Science Fiction Fun	I found this 70's science fiction tale among the crowded stacks of of my favorite used book store. It's theme of mass disappearance of humans due to a disruptions of time interesting, so I grabbed it thinking it would be nice light reading. Well, it's far from light. Here Dickson takes us on a 70's head trip of physics and philosophy. Ther first half of the book is a strong Post Apocalytic tale of a man, a teenage girl and a leopard traveling through a broken, disjointed land where Time Storms have switched large chucks or land with land of the past and the future, and where traveling Mistwalls threaten to displace the travelers themselves. The second part of the book is hard science fiction where the main character battles the very physical forces of nature which are causing these problems. In the end this book is a tale of love, and finding what's inside a person by stepping out of their own body, and their comfort zones and looking at things in a way one would never conceived. Beware of some weird 70's new-age corniness, but enjoy.	2005-08-25
US	34163391	R2HFDBBSGKYP3Z	0515139858	315989395	Dark Carnival (Serenity Falls, Book 3)	Books	3	4	4	N	N	The Final Battle In A Strong Series	Originally posted as a single novel, Serenity Falls was recently released in a three volume mass paperback set.  For fans of horror, especially those who enjoyed Stephen King back when he was writing books like It, Cujo and Salem's Lot, this is definitely something you'd want to scoop up. Unlike some trilogies, especially ones that were originally conceived as a single novel, all three books of the series have a different feel to them.  <br /> <br />The basic premise deals with the small rural New York town of Serenity Falls. While Serenity Falls may seem like your prototypical small town, it has a history of violence and death that far exceeds most small towns.  <br /> <br />Book 3: Dark Carnival <br /> <br />The third book picks up the story of the town of Serenity Falls, and builds on the characters we have met, yet, this book is mostly Jonathon Crowley's tale. Crowley, the other than human demon hunter, takes center stage in the last segment. While many of the townspeople have suffered loss, many others have just been living life as normal. But that's about to change, because the Carnival is coming.  <br /> <br />Crowley still is unsure of what he it dealing with as the story starts, but he knows that the entity that has been plaguing him for a while is nothing more than a dangerous distraction from the real problems. He begins to realize that the secret to the mystery lies with the children. After dealing with the tormented Stan Long, he finds the entity had found a new host in the bodies of some of the towns children. Crowley finds this disturbing, yet also sees the possibilities that lay in this. As he lays his traps, he must also deal with his conflicting feelings for the mysterious women that Mike Blake has fallen for, one that he himself has had a past with.  <br /> <br />While Crowley is brilliant and cunning in his deductions., the final battles he must have with the entity tormenting him and the town and the curse that is putting the bodies and souls ofthe town in jeopardy, turns brutally physical. Crowley, in the end, is looking for a fight and he finds one. As the carnival enters town, run by the souls of the outsiders slaughtered by the townspeople, Crowley has to put out one fire after another, before that final showdown. <br /> <br />Of all the books, this is probably the weakest, yet it is probably necessary do to the development of the story. The characters are in play, the battle has been set, and now, it just comes down to execution. I am someone who enjoys the buildup more that the actual action, so at points I found myself skimming through the brutal and garish action. While some aspects are predictable, Moore shows no fear of killing off main characters, and having things not go exactly how you would expect, Crowley is a worthy antihero, but he can become exasperating for the reader. His judgmental side attacks characters that we grow to like, and seems dismissive toward humans. Plus, he's a bit too resourceful. Like Batman, he always has exactly what he needs to battle with the evil forces.  <br /> <br />Yet, complaints aside, the series comes together well in this last book. While this is the final battle, the end leaves just enough ambiguity to leave the reader wanting more. I know if there is another book featuring Crowley, I'll be reading it.	2005-08-22
US	34163391	R76ZG4I3JTPFZ	0515139688	616357320	Writ in Blood: Serenity Falls 1	Books	4	6	6	N	N	A Strong Start to The Series	Originally posted as a single novel, Serenity Falls was recently released in a three volume mass paperback set.  For fans of horror, especially those who enjoyed Stephen King back when he was writing books like It, Cujo and Salem's Lot, this is definitely something you'd want to scoop up. Unlike some trilogies, especially ones that were originally conceived as a single novel, all three books of the series have a different feel to them.  <br /> <br />The basic premise deals with the small rural New York town of Serenity Falls. While Serenity Falls may seem like your prototypical small town, it has a history of violence and death that far exceeds most small towns.  <br /> <br />Book #1: Writ in Blood <br /> <br />Book one intermingles three tales together to set the framework for the rest of the series. Part gothic horror, part paranormal thriller Writ in Blood tells the tale of Simon McGruder, local eccentric, who decides that a complete history of the town is needed. As he starts to dig into the towns past we learn about Serenity Falls horrible past. The first tale told starts during the colonial period when the town first was founded as a supply station for England and it's new world colonies. Albert Miles, a local man, is sent away to England on the mayor's orders. While he was gone he wife is left alone to fend for herself. An uncommonly beautiful women, stories began to swirl, first of visits by local gentlemen, later the stories expand to that of evil and witchcraft. Eventually, Sarah Miles is put on trial for witchcraft and tortured raped and eventually killed by the town's mayor. When he husband returns, he is obviously enraged. While the stories of witchcraft were unfounded in his wife, Albert Miles himself has a working knowledge of the dark arts. In his rage, he places a curse upon the town, written in rage and blood, that the town will never rest in peace, in life or death and that eventually, every soul will scream.  <br /> <br />We then see how the curse has played out through the history of Serenity Falls. We see tragedies on small and large levels. We see husbands driven crazy, killing their whole family, women abducted and killed, never to be seen again, and one intriguing tale of a carnival and a few missing children. As with all tales in this book, it's ends in death and tragedy on a grand scale.  <br /> <br />Intertwined with the history of Serenity Falls, we follow the tales anti-hero, the other than human demon hunter Jonathon Crowley, who we first saw in Moore other book, Under the Overtree, as he is being stalked by a demon that is leading him to Serenity Falls.  Crowley is your basic sarcastic, yet harsh hero. Even serving as humanities protector, he seems to have contempt for humanity and it's vices. At times, it serves him well in this book, at other times, it's just annoying. It seems he is more interested in passing judgment of people than doing his job. Yet, when his job comes up, and he needs to physically take on one of the many ghosts, demons and such in the book, the story just takes off. One intriguing aspect of Crowley's character is that he is bound by certain rules that he must adhere too when dealing with both humanity and those beyond humanity. It adds an intriguing ethical subplot to the story. <br /> <br />All in all, Writ in Blood is a solid horror tale, full of intriguing characters. At times, the book reminds you of parts of It, especially the when King handles the history of Derry. In some levels, this first book is just an extended prologue to the tale that is to come, but it teases your interest just enough to pick up that next book.	2005-08-22
US	34163391	R7ZC1OB1JZ8DI	0515139696	541148378	The Pack (Serenity Falls, Book 2)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The Best Of The Series	Originally posted as a single novel, Serenity Falls was recently released in a three volume mass paperback set.  For fans of horror, especially those who enjoyed Stephen King back when he was writing books like It, Cujo and Salem's Lot, this is definitely something you'd want to scoop up. Unlike some trilogies, especially ones that were originally conceived as a single novel, all three books of the series have a different feel to them.  <br /> <br />The basic premise deals with the small rural New York town of Serenity Falls. While Serenity Falls may seem like your prototypical small town, it has a history of violence and death that far exceeds most small towns.  <br /> <br /> <br />Book 2: The Pack <br /> <br />While probably having the worst name of the series, the second book is strongest of the series and it's where the story truly takes off. This time the focus of the book is not on the curse haunting the town, or even out anti-hero Jonathon Crowley, who doesn't even appear until until the second half of the book. This time the focus is on the townspeople, and even more so, the children.  <br /> <br />The evil entity that has been slowly drawing Crowley to Serenity Falls, now focuses his energy on the town and playing games with it's residents. Among the games he plays is possessing certain townsfolk, causing them to act outside of there character. The children themselves are tormented by ghosts and bad dreams, and one child becomes the conduit for the souls of Serenity Falls dead  between this world and the world they have been trapped in since their deaths.  <br /> <br />Yet, beyond the horror and mayhem, the true beauty of this novel is the developing the characters that were only briefly touched on in the first book. Sheriff Jack Michael's, is more than just a loyal lawman, but a figure as tragic as the town itself.  Mike Blake, the banker turn town drunk, pulls himself out of self imposed stupor since his wife died to begin once again gaining the respect of himself and his neighbors, only to have his world turned upside down in the form a beautiful, yet oddly familiar women. Deputy Victor Barnes, who we only saw as the helpful biker in the first book, becomes a main character, as a newly hired deputy who gives us an outsiders perspective on the town.  <br /> <br />Then there is the kids. A group of misfired kids, like Farm boy Dave Pageant, feisty best friends Charlene and Jessie, and tormented Stan Long, may just be the towns only chance against the forces building up in the town. It doesn't help that there is a pack of wild, seemingly changed dogs roaming the woods, terrorizing and slaughtering the residents of this cursed town.  <br /> <br />Moore cleverly intermingles many horror archetypes, monsters and vampires,  horny kids at make out point being terrorized, demonic possession, ghosts, and of course, the horrors of childhood bullies, yet, he understands the clichd aspects and builds and manipulates the reader.  Yet, while he has some of Stephen King's flair for characters, he also has some of his flaws. Many scenes are overwritten and it can get hard to keep the multiple characters straight and try to remember their connection to the past. .  He also uses the \\"hit you in the face\\" foreshadowing (...and that was the last time she ever saw her sister alive...) that is a literary trick, and one that becomes painfully obvious. Yet, in the end, The Pack works because the characters do. At times the story gets bogged down and confusing, but in the end, Moore it pulls off.	2005-08-22
US	34163391	R1B2F6EQYKJ7C8	0385721676	264457638	Oryx and Crake	Books	5	6	9	N	N	Sometimes a books surprises you.	Sometimes a books surprises you. <br /> <br />I don't mean this in a twist, surprise ending Roger Ackroydian way or even in a judgemental, be it positive or negative, sort of way. Sometimes you just come to expect certain things from a book, or books in general, and every once and a while you are thrown for a loop. Sometimes genres are bended, and characters act or just are not what you expect or even imagine. Sometimes, a book is just different and smacks your preconceived notions in the face. <br /> <br />Oryx and Crake is one of these books. First off, when picked up this book, I really didn't expect to like it, for a lot of reasons. The reason I bough it is that it was on a Post Apocalyptic book list I have been working my way through, slowly but surely, with plenty breaks in between. Yet, I was trepidations. I have read her book, A Handmaid's Tale, and didn't really enjoy it. She is a very literary writer, which often means witty, verbose, well written and boring. I am not scared to admit that I tend to avoid that which is labeled literature, unless coerced, instead finding myself immersed in the pulp and popular fiction of the day. I also, with a few exceptions, tend to avoid books by women authors. When I read a women's name on the title, I expect a book oriented towards women. Yes, this is probably not something I should admit, but even within the genre's I enjoy, women authors tend to lose my interest. <br /> <br />Now, admitting I am a misogynistic literary snob, let's move on to the book. Oryx and Crake is a tale of the last man on earth, Snowman. Snowman hasn't always been called Snowman, before he was Jimmy, but in a new world, I guess people need a new name. Snowman basically sits around in his tree all day, drinking his last drops of pilfered liquor, attempting to keep the sheet he wears as his only clothes clean, and watching over a group of genetically altered childlike survivors, who are more or perhaps less than human, depending on you perspective. While in his tree, and later on his trip to an old compound for supplies, Snowman relives and reminisces on his life when he was Jimmy. <br /> <br />The world of his youth was a glimpse on the possible road we may be heading down. Raised in a protected community among scientists, like his father, Jimmy's world is full of genetically engineered animals recombinants , like Pigoons and Wolvogs, animals combined to add to the betterment of human existence. Jimmy is immune to the real world, refered to as pleeblands. In that world, society has broken down and poverty and dystopia reigns. We follow Jimmy's life, as he grows older, and becomes friends with the man that is to become known as Crake, a genius who may or may not be mad. <br /> <br />There are so many reasons Oryx and Crake just shouldn't work. The story seems almost uneven, jumping around through the time line of events, almost willy nilly. Beyond the character of Jimmy/Snowman, the other players are underdeveloped and underused, and often quite unbelievable. The story at points goes off on seemingly unnecessary paths, that slow the story down and the ending is, at best, ambiguous. Yet, all these issues some together in just the right way to make the story work. At times, the story becomes confusing, and you're not quite sure why the author is giving you a glimpse of this or that, but by the end, the come together like a impressionist painting, and you wouldn't want to lose a single bit. <br /> <br />As a post apocalyptic tale, this book fits neatly into the genre more so along the lines of classic tales like A Brave New World and 1984, yet other sections recalls parts of Earth Abides, and Vonnegut's, Galapagos. A time it is an absurdist comedy, at other times, a dark harbinger of science and it's ultimate potential if it loses control, and a reminder that it most probably will. Atwood handles the issues well, yet with enough intriguing diversions, and cartoonish handlings to not leave you overly paranoid ofusing the latest wonder drug.	2005-08-18
US	34163391	R6SBHSIOPLEQN	0525948449	346222769	The Motive (Dismas Hardy, Book 10)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Back to the Courtroom for One Dismas Hardy	The first John Lescroart book I read was The 13th juror. I have always been a huge legal fiction fan, and when I saw another law of a crafty defense lawyer defending a seemingly innocent client form from an unwarranted murder charge, I got excited. Here's another series written by a lawyer about a crusading defense attorney. I expected a series of dramatic trial stories, of the good Dismas Hardy fighting against the corrupt system, aided by his good police buddy Abe. Basically, I expected the same old legal series. <br /> <br />Yet, I shouldn't had assumed anything. My first bad assumption was that Mr. Lescroart was a lawyer. This isn't true. My second assumption was he was going to write a series where the legal system was the driving force behind the stories. Also, not true. This is much more than a tale of a lawyer. This series is character study of two friend, their families and one crazy city called San Francisco. Lescroart has taking his characters across the expected sub genre lines, at times a family tale, at time a police procedural, at times a story of corruption and intrigue,  at times an action thriller, this series is never scared to take the unexpected turn or change the story up in some integral way. So, when I picked up The Motive, I had finally told myself that I shouldn't expect another The 13th  Juror.  <br /> <br /> Yet, of course, I guess I had forgotten my lesson once again. With the motive, Lescroart had gone back to what drew me to him in the first place, a good old fashion Murder Trial. Not that this was your typical tale of legal maneuvering. Lescroart starts it off proving that he knows how to do his research. A fire is ravaging a home in a picturesque San Francisco neighborhood , and the firefighters are performing their trade well. During the fight of the fire, two bodies, burned beyond recognition are discovered. They may have been just unfortunate victims of the fire, except for the bullet holes in their heads and the fact that they were drenched in gasoline. <br /> <br />This of course sets off the series of events that drive this book.. At first, it just looks like a murder suicide, but the victim has some high powered friends, and one of them, the current mayor calls upon Hardy's friend, and now high ranking brass Abe Glitsky to take a interest in this case. Abe's involvement doesn't sit to well with the investigating detective, and things turn even more sour when Abe quickly disproves the detectives murder/suicide theory. This leads, the detective on a quest to out do his rival, and he quickly focuses his attentions on the victim's daughter in law, a women who spurned his sexual advances. To make matters even worst, the suspect just happens to be an ex-girlfriend of one Dismas Hardy. <br /> <br />Such a small world. <br /> <br />The book then takes the predictable, yet highly entertaining turn towards the impending murder trial, with Glitsky taking heat for his unofficial involvement in the case and accusations of collusion being tossed at Abe, Hardy and the mayor. Hardy, now having to defend his ex-lover, and worrying about a secret he just can't allow to surface seems to become more and more emotionally drained. Both he and Glitsky are desperately searching for the answers.	2005-08-11
US	34163391	R1PBCGY0D933NR	0439784549	162568542	Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince (Book 6)	Books	4	4	7	N	N	An Important and Fun Book in the Series.	I love writing book reviews. I hate writing reviews for books that are a part of a long running series. The task become multifaceted and complicated. You are unable to judge the book solely on its own merits, but also on how it fits within the entire arc of the series. It is quite possible on it's own for a book to be excellent, but within the confines of the series to be a disappointment, or commit some action that lessen the series. Conversely, a book could be down right dull while being an important and necessary piece that moves the series to a important place.    Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince is quite an important book in the planned seven part series. As the penultimate book it has an important task, it must clean up many of the loose ends, and set up the final great battle. In a way it is a housekeeping book. Often times, these books are the hardest, toughest to read, but writer J. K. Rowling handles this well. In this book, Rowling takes the focus off the tasks she need to do by distracting us with the blossoming of the three main characters and the developments and changes in their relationships. In a series that has turned quite dark, the light hearted moments of young love, keep the book moving and gives it a sense of fun.    Yet, at points the story does get bogged down by the many minor characters she his introduced over the past 5 books, who seem to pop up in places causing you to have to search you memory for just who they were. While some of these references where important, others where extraneous, and were slight bumps on an otherwise smooth ride.    Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince is more a story of the past. Harry is invited to private tutoring sessions by Dumbledore. During these private sessions Dunmbledore takes Harry on a trip of memories to learn about the past of Lord Voldemort. As Harry is believed to be the \\"chosen one\\" prophesized to do battle with ultimate dark Lord, Dumbledore believes it is quite important for Harry toprepare himself by getting to know his enemy. Dumbledore implores Harry to solve the mysteries of certain memories. This was another weak point in the novel. It seemed so important to Dumbledore for Harry to solve a particular mystery, yet when he finally does, it seemed that Dumbledore had already had it figured out, perhaps for a while. The whole search for the hidden memory come off as much more of plot device to hold off revealing things than an actual vital part of the plot.    Yet, complaints aside, Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince is a fun book. It is much more of a teenaged book than some of the others in the series. She seems to have finally found that balanced. Her early books were mostly kids books, written with adult appeal. The later where adult books suitable in content and pace for children. Within the series, this may have been the most important book, setting up book seven, yet it is also a highly entertaining.	2005-07-29
US	34163391	R2W44TPN3FZBS8	0553804154	829325009	Velocity	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Koontz's Fast Paced Tale About The Value Of Life	I will always have a special place in my heart for Dean Koontz. He was the very first adult writer that I discovered on my own. I grew up in a lower middle class family, without much disposable income, like buying books. I was a voracious reader but had to find most of my reading materials at my local library, my school library or in my sister's collection of cheesy romance novels. At the age of fifteen I got my first \\"real\\" job and with that first paycheck I bought a selection of adult novels, including Dean Koontz's the bad place. After reading that he quickly became my favorite authors.  <br /> <br />Eventually, my selections of authors increased but my love of Koontz's novels didn't diminish. I quickly added Watchers, Servants of the Twilight and Strangers as some of my favorite contemporary novels. Over the years Koontz has adapted his style and changed things up, some with good results and some mediocre at best, yet the basic heart of his novels have remained intact. Recently, Koontz has upped his output, two Hardcover a year as opposed to one, yet the creative quality has exceeded many of his older offerings.  <br /> <br />Velocity is old school Koontz. Sharp, and witty, and fast paced. In many ways this book, as well as his previous novel, Life Expectancy, read like a Richard Laymon novel yet without the juvenile obsession with breast and sex, and with more developed characters and a ending with true payoff.  <br /> <br />The set up is intriguing, a bartender named Billy Wiles receives a note one day asking him to make a choice. If he tells the cops about the note and gets them to act an elderly person involved in charity will die, if he doesn't a lovely blond teacher will die. Initially believing the note a joke in poor taste, Billy is eventually forced to face that this is no joke and a maniacal killer has targeted him for a deadly game.  <br /> <br />While the surface aspects of the novel is a rip roaring roller coaster ride, Koontz's digs deep into the psychological scars of his main character, who has become socially crippled while dealing with the stress of caring for him comatose fianc. What Koontz does here as he did with the novel One Door Away From Heaven, is examines the decaying value of life. With Billy contemplating suicide, and his fianc's doctor suggesting he pull the plug on his lover, Billy must now make choices about whose life is more valuable as he plays the killers sick game.  <br /> <br />While Koontz does a good job fleshing out these issues, and developing the character of Billy, something about Billy is just unlikable. As a main character goes, Billy comes off as more whiney than emotionally destroyed about the events of his life and the trials he has undergone. While he fights for the life of his wife, he has given up on his own. Koontz has had a knack for developing characters who life has kicked in the ass, yet they found a way to not just persevere, but thrive. Yet, Billy is not one of them. Yet, this aspect may be necessity for the tale, because Billy must determine the value of his life in order to find the strength to defeat the killer. Yet, it makes the book seem hollow when compared to others like Off Thomas.	2005-07-18
US	34163391	R1Z43D58E3JRHY	0312282990	383312801	The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier & Clay	Books	5	13	17	N	N	A Fascinating Comic Tale	I am going to take a little different approach to reviewing this novel. The Amazing Adventures of Kavelier and Clay is a Pulitzer Prize winning novel by Michael Chabon about two Jewish men during World War II who tap into the comic book craze by inventing a Nazi killing super hero called the Escapist. There are many subplots within this book, dealing with a vast array of issues, but in the end it's mainly a book about family and the extremes a person will go to try to protect them. Chabon pins this simple concept in to an incredible and often complicated tale full of action and humor. <br /> <br />Now, as a person who is mostly a popcorn reader, who tends to stay away from acclaimed literature, I was hesitant to pick up any Pulitzer Prize winner. Now, as a reviewer, I ask who am I to judge a novel that has receive the ultimate of literary achievement. My greatest praise fore this book is it was highly readable, not pretentious and had some of the more intriguing characters I have met within the walls of a novel for a while. If you are intimidated by the size, or by the acclaim of this book, don't be. It is as accessible as any other well written novel for the masses. <br /> <br />So, my approach to reviewing this novel was a little different. I decided to check out the Amazon reviewers and see what the masses had to say. For the most part the reviews were glowing, yet, about 100 of the 500 or so reviewers rated it one or two starts out of five. I was intrigued by there reasoning, so I tried to find common reasoning behind the negative reviews. So here were what most of them boiled down to. <br /> <br />Group One: The Whackjobs. A few reviewers where upset that with the novel's attempt to make us feel for the main characters plight to save his Jewish Family who were living in Nazi controlled Prague. These reviewers found this to be another attempt by ??? at propaganda and exploiting the holocaust. These reviewers reminded us that there where much larger cases of genocide in history. To me that's like telling one family not to mourn the death of their child, because another family had two children die. <br /> <br />Group Two: The Conservatives. I don't mean this as a value judgment, but some people cannot handle, for whatever reasons, the inclusion of a homosexual as a main character. Some people are too put off by this inclusion to be able enjoy the many other aspects and subplots of this novel. <br /> <br />Group Three: The Observant. Some people complained that this book was \\"all about comic books.\\" While you should have been able to pick that up by reading the back blurb, I can understand what your saying. I loved the comic book business aspects, even as a non-comic book reader. Beypmd that this book had comic bookesque sequences of the fantastic, similar to books like Winston Groom's Forrest Gump. Yet, this book, was a fantasy cloaked in reality, and these bits of the fantastic may have put off many who strive for reality or lack imagination. <br /> <br />Group Four: The Anti-articas. Within the nearly 700 hundred pages of this novel, filled with Gollems, escape artists, and a vast array of fantastic comic characters what most people seemed to most hate was a 70 page section where the main character enlists in the army and becomes a radio engineer stationed in a remote base in Antartica. While, I can't find any proof that such a base ever existed (who cares if it did) there have been plenty of rumors of Nazi interest in Antartica. While this wasn't the best sequence within the novel, it worked well to symbolize the utter desire for isolation the character desires. This is a frequent literary device Chabon uses, settings symbolizes emotion. New York stood for freedom, The Empire States building symbolized success, Pre-war Eastern Europe stood for oppression and the suburbs stood for settling and futility. These themes pepper this tale which is why, for me, sending a character who wants to isolate himself from the world to Antartica worked. <br /> <br />Group Five: The \\"I couldn't finish it.\\" Finally, there are just some people who this book just wasn't right for. That's fine. While I loved it, nothing is for everyone.	2005-07-17
US	34163391	R391LVVMG4D3D9	034546706X	339969379	Rage (Alex Delaware)	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Kellerman Picks Up The Pace With Great Results	You'd think with over 20 books, the vast majority dealing with the same character that the author and character both would start to get stale. Honestly, for a while there he did. Probably around the turn of the millenium I sort of lost interest in Kellerman's novels. Maybe it was a change in my lifestlye or some outside factor, by Kellerman's Alex Delaware novels just lost me. For the most part, the main charcter seemed to become whiney, pining over his deteriorating relationship with long time girldfriend Robin. His investigations seemed to get lazy, consisting of google searches and calling up various friends who, of course, were experts in just what Delaware needed. <br /> <br />Then came The Murder Book, and Kellerman had me back. The saving grace and heart of all his novels has been his complicated detective Milo Sturgis and his relationship with Alex Delaware. Now, this is a rant I go off on every time a review an Alex Delaware novel, but Kellerman is truly a gifted writer when he is writing in the third person. His first person tales, while interesting, sometimes gets bogged down in the charcter, without truly developing him. When the world is filtered through Dr.Delaware's eyes, it takes on a tinted tone. Remove that tint, and you see Kellerman's world at it's best. The Murder book proved to me that Kellerman can, and should right a third person novel with Sturgis as the driving character. <br /> <br />Yet, despite those concerns and wishes, Rage is one of Kelleman's best novels in a while. The story hooks you in right away. Before you realize it, you've torn through the first 100 pages and you need to find out what happens. The story focuses on, in typical Kellerman fashion, a brutal crime. This time it's the murder of a small girl by two teenage boys, with seemingly no motive. One of the boys, Rand, is slow witted and impressionable. Kellerman is called into the case as a consultant, but eventually a deal is struck and the boys are sent away to juvenile prison. While one of the boys is brutally murdered, Rand serves his sentence. Eventually upon release he attempts to contact Alex Delaware, but he himself is killed before the meeting takes place. This, of course, sets off the always inquisitive mind of Dr. Delaware. <br /> <br />The investigation is so full of twists and turns that at time it leaves your head spinning. Milo and Alez meet such an wide assortment of badies, potential badies and potential victims that your no sure of anything at first. Yet, eventually the answers are fleshed out. One of my favorite aspects of this novel was the thought processes and just plain bull sessions that took place between Alez and Milo. Instead of Kellerman just having Alex flesh it out, the two bounce ideas and theories of each other, sometimes at lightning pace. While this goes to help move the story along, it also gives us more of a glimpse into the two characters friendship. <br /> <br />This is also an incredibly slimmed down novel. While some of the typical Alex Delaware subplots are there, they live in the peripheral and never distract from the main focus of the book. Best yet, the ending is crisp and quick, answering questions but leaving openings. Gone is the wham bam actioner ending, which ends the storyline with a quick bust or a fatal bullet. Enter a more ambiguous ending the leaves the readers asking many of the same intellectual and psychological questions that plagued the main characters.	2005-07-11
US	34163391	R3L7AUVCH0PC07	0446519936	418187481	Aftermath	Books	3	6	9	N	N	Fun Yet Forced Tale	Let's deal with the obvious issue first, yes, this is a book by LeVar Burton. Yes, the same LeVar Burton that played Kunta Kinte in roots, Geordi LaForge in Star Trek: TNG and hosted Reading Rainbow on PBS. Yes, like most Star Trek alums this book is classified as Sci-Fi, yet there are no Klingons, nor warp driven space cruisers and while people are going places quite boldly at times, they are not places in which no man has gone before.  <br /> <br />There were two reasons I wanted to read this book. Firstly, one of my favorite genre's of books in Post Apocalyptic novels, and while this book doesn't fit neatly into this category, it offers some of the same themes. In reality this book has more of a dystrophic theme to it. Societal breakdown, not to to a cataclysmic event, like plague or nuclear war, but in a more gradual breakdown of civility due to economic, environmental and socio-political influences. Oh, and there was an earthquake.  <br /> <br />The second reason I wanted to read the book was that came packed with a bit of controversy. Many reviews have basically called this a racist novel. That all African American character were heroic and all the white characters evil. Many reviewers have accused Mr. Burton of vilifying whites while excusing riotous and murderous behavior of African Americans within the book.  <br /> <br />The novel takes place in the near future.  After the assassination of Lawrence Everette, the first African American elected president, riots brake out in many major cities. Adding to this situation, a huge earthquake along the New Madrid fault leaves the Mid West devastated and millions homeless.  In response to the riots and increasing unrest the Army is dispatched in an attempt to restore order. Many African America soldiers refused to fire upon the rioters and desert. Eventually, an African American General attempts to seize control of the army. After his attempt fails a full fledge race war breaks out. <br /> <br />All this is info dumped to the reader in the first four pages of the novel.   <br /> <br />Within this setting a brilliant scientist has discovered a way to tap into the human brain, and use it to cure various diseases, specifically Parkinson's and all forms of cancer. A certain unscrupulous scientist sees this as a bad thing, which will drastically cut into his bottom line. He attempts to steal this device, and kidnap the scientist who invented it. During the attempt, the scientist. Rene Reynolds, manages to slip a vital piece to a homeless man named Leon Crane, a disgraced former physicist who lost his family. Rene, now being held hostage by the evil Dr. Sinclair, is able to tap into another byproduct of her new device, an increased psychic ability. She sends out a telepathic call for help that is picked up by Leon, as well as three other characters, who now attempt to cross a dangerous country to rescue a women they never met, and quite possibly the world.   <br /> <br />Now, onto the controversy. Some reviewers claim that all the white characters are evil and all the minorities characters are heros. This is an extreme stretch at best. Of the named characters in the book, there is only truly one evil character who happened to be white. There were also two positive white male characters that assist the main characters on the way. While the nameless evil characters are also for the most part white, these are all men who work for the evil Dr. Sinclair. Dr. Sinclair is more portrayed as evil rich guy, than evil white guy. <br /> <br />The second complaint is that Burton explains away the bad behavior of the rioters in this novel. This is also a stretch, for the most part, the narration of this novel is values neutral. The few times when value judgments are made, they are through the filter of a characters perspective. Burton describes riots and war time acts by the rebels (the Black Army) including an incident where a ship containing American soldiers are firebombed. It's pretty simplistic to except a writer to talk about riots and acts of war, then require him to tell you these things are bad. I think it's pretty easy to figure out on your own.  <br /> <br />Objections have also been made to the \\"skinners\\" in the novel. Due to a depletion of the ozone layer, incidents of skin cancer in whites have greatly increased. The evil Dr. Sinclair discovered a method of grafting skin from African Americans onto whites to increase tolerance to the sun. This discovery lead to black market skinners who would enslave and slaughter African Americans for their skins. This plot point, is simply that, a story device. It didn't seem, to me at least, that this was an attempt to show what whites are truly like, as some suggested, but display the dark side of human nature who will exploit anything for a profit, and do anything to survive. You see a similarly dark theme in Niven and Pournelle's Lucifer's Hammer with the cannibal armies, many of whom where African American.  <br /> <br />All in all, it is obvious what Burton is trying to do. He is creating a piece of fiction with positive African American characters. He is attempting to show that the world is better if people work together. The final scenes contain a multiethnic group, a white girl, an African American male, an elder Native American and a Philipino attempting to rescue Dr. Reynolds. This book is rife with racial overtones, but for the most part handled well. If I had any complaint about his racial themes, it is mostly a stylistic one. Burton felt the need to tell you each characters race in the simple terms as soon as you met them. There are other ways to let the reader know a character is white, black, Asian or Native American without simply telling us straight out.  <br /> <br />The book itself was entertaining and a quick read. At points it was compared to the Stand, and called epic. This is a bit of a stretch. I have trouble considering any book that is less than 300 pages epic. Books like The Standor Swan Song and other post apocalyptic epics create a world which then defines the story, this story didn't need to the world that Burton created to exist. The plot could have taken place within a modern, non dystrophic setting and still ring true. At points, Burton's characters are a bit clichd especially the old Native American Medicine man Jacob Fire Cloud. The action scenes seemed a bit  as the plot races towards it conclusion. Yet, in the end, the book left me with a positive feeling. While I won't call this an instant classic, it was an enjoyable read and raised a lot of intriguing issues. For someone who is not a writer by trade, Burton does a decent job with this tale.	2005-06-26
US	34163391	R1NV7CUAE4Z222	0451214242	794032457	Silent Witness (Signet Novel)	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Not Your Typical Legal Fiction	In Rebecca Forster's second legal thriller featuring Josie Baylor-Bates the courtroom is down played and the personal angst is amped up to high. As Josie is trying to settle into a seminormal existence, her life is thrown for a loop one more time. Her photographer boyfriend Archer past is ripped wide open when a civil lawsuit brings new evidence to life that he may just have killed his late wives mentally challenged son, Tim.  <br /> <br />Usually, I stop to analyze the ins and outs of a book, and whether it was enjoyable to me. simple for the most part. This book was slightly different. The subject matter of this book hit too close to home. The motive of the case was that Tim was viewed as a burden, a roadblock between Archer and his wife. This burden got to great, and Archer found a good way to get rid of the kid, just let him fall off a ride at an amusement park ride, seemingly a tragic accident.  <br /> <br />The reason this book hit so close to him is that I work in an institution, much like the one that Tim came from in this book. The author did a good job with the struggles of the parents and families, maybe too good of a job at some points. Reaching into Archer's mind you find the prosecutions belief in the motive not to far off from the truth. To Archer, Tim was a burden. A child stuck in a man's body, given to moments of violence and other uncontrollable behavior. While you are supposed to feel somewhat sorry for Archer, I had trouble finding any sympathy for the man, and Josie's ardent struggle to free the man from jeopardy, while compelling, I couldn't share in her angst as much as I did in her previous tale. <br /> <br />Yet, beyond the personal issues, the author did a great job with this tale. The tale is so well plotted and full of subtext that you find yourself engrossed in many aspects of the life of Josie. Forster did an excellent job portraying the struggles of people involved in the  lives of the mentally challenged, from administrators, to direct care employees, to the parents. Tim, while staying human, is portrayed as a pawn in a chess game that no one really understood, except maybe his mother. On other levels, Josie's struggle with Hannah, the troubled girl she has taken as her charge, relates so well with the past it only ups the ante of the tale. <br /> <br />I have to admit, this one was hard for me. It was a great read, but I found myself getting angry at parts, not with the author, but with the characters within. This is definitely not a light and breezy book, it deals with true issues that often get brush under the table. While this book isn't as much a legal tale as her last, it does deal with some interesting ethical questions, especially about when a lawyer becomes too personally involved in a case.	2005-05-31
US	34163391	R1HPD98WAR31MX	0345452593	660919237	Therapy	Books	3	10	10	N	N	Kellerman's Latest Alex Delaware Thriller Same Old, Same Old	Alex Delaware should sell stock in Google.  <br /> <br />It seems like in the last few book, most of his investigative break through have come from running some poor schmuck's name through the Internet search engine to find out about the most intimate details of a person life. In one funny turn of events he actually says he needs to do some old fashion leg work, so what does he do. He turns to an old friend who is an expert at discovering government funding. How does she do it? By searching computer databases.  <br /> <br />Therapy is the latest yarn by Jonathan Kellerman. Once again he returns to his safe ground. A first person dominated tale from the perspective of Dr. Alex Delaware, a California Psychologist. This time, Dr. Delaware is helping his friend, Lieutenant Milo Sturgis, investigate the brutal slaying of two young lovers found parked in a convertible. One of these young lovers was the recent victim of a traumatic brain injury and was seeing a celebrity shrink.  <br /> <br />As the investigation moves on, it is discovered that this isn't the first patient of this celebrity shrink to be murdered using this M.O. Eventually, the psychologist herself is murdered. What follows is a complex tale involving strippers, the Rwandan Tutsi genocide, Medicare fraud, prison reform, secret government officials and real estate deals. The Plot becomes so complex that it guarantees a bit of an anti-climatic ending. <br /> <br />For the most part, the book is fast paced and fun to read. Unfortunately, Kellerman's choice to write solely in the first person again prevents a lot of character development. His previous Delaware novel included third person accounts from Sturgis and his female LA Detective Petra, and these changes of pace in the story telling really rounded out the story. Here we are back to the ho-hum goody two shoes word of Alex Delaware.  <br /> <br />Kellerman is a gifted story teller, but boxes himself in too much in this tale. In a plot as intricate as this,with a lot of dirty players in dirty places, confining us to Dr. Delaware's nice house doing computer searches takes some away from the story.	2004-11-30
US	34163391	R2EF3IF2SB9IAU	1880418622	871670140	The Dark Tower (The Dark Tower, Book 7)	Books	5	3	7	N	N	At the end of the path of the beam.	I can't review this book. I just can't I'm sorry.  <br /> <br />It's not that I'm unable to. I can tell you how I feel about it. the problem is I cannot be objective about this series. Asking me to give a review about a Dark Tower book is like asking a parent to review their child in a school play. They could tell you how they felt about it, but it really does no good for you guys out there. <br /> <br />I have grown up with this series. I read the first book when I was 13 years old, hiding from my mother, who didn't really feel comfortable allowing her young son to read this kind of garbage.  17 years and six books later I have finally completed this tale.  <br /> <br />The worlds that King created in this series have haunted me from the moment I was first exposed to them. With each book, more and more layers where pulled back and added on and removed entirely. Seems impossible right. Well, these worlds have moved on. <br /> <br />I have to greet the ending of this series with mixed emotions. While I thrilled to find the end of Roland's quest, I also feared never being able to travel these worlds again. At least not for the first time. <br /> <br />As far as the books content, I found it great. I cried, I laughed and I found the much anticipated ending adequate. There were points to the book I found anticlimactic. Characters ended their roles in the series with a puff and not a bang, even these endings were oddly appropriate.  <br /> <br />So, I can't really review this book. Just know I loved it.	2004-10-05
US	34163391	R3PRPSJX6X0WHZ	0451459792	278877946	Dies the Fire: A Novel of the Change	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Top Notch Post Apocalyptical Fiction	It seems recently that I have taken a turn in my reading habits. I don't know if it was the whole LOTR's hype, or the coming of the end of Stephen King's Dark Tower series, but something rekindled my desire for fantasy.  So I went in search of some decent fantasy tales. I made my way through Donaldson's Chronicles of Thomas Covenant series, a series I had started years ago but never finished. That only energized me more. Yet, I wasn't finding what I wanted. Personally, outside of Tolkien, I lose interest in elves and fairies and wizards pretty quick. So, one day I was picking through my old paperbacks and came upon Earth Abides, the classic post apocalyptical tale.  That's what I am looking for, I thought. <br /> <br />So I began to search out some post apocalyptical stories. In my search I stumbled upon a teaser for the upcoming book, Dies the Fire, by an author names S. M. Stirling. Now, never really being a sci-fi fan or even all that aware of the alternate history genre, I was intrigued. I discovered this book was supposed to be an extension of another series called The Island in the Sea of Time. So I said, what the heck, let's give it a try. <br /> <br />And I'm glad I did. The Island Series was brilliant and very enjoyable. It had well developed characters and some of the most intense and visually stimulating battle scenes I have read since The Illearth Wars. So when Dies the Fire came out I snatched it up hoping for more of the same. <br /> <br />What surprised me about this book right away is how instantly I started to like the characters.  Many post apocalyptical novels tend to focus on the disaster right away, and then worry about the character later. Here we have a group of characters that instantly are appealing. The story starts basically with a bang as suddenly and inexplicably, the world is changed. There is no warning or big build up, just a flash of light and pain and then everything electrical and motorized just stops working. Most people think it's a temporary thing, maybe the result of a nuclear explosion. Things get even weirder when people discover that guns don't work and gun powder won't even burn as before. This isn't something temporary, it as if the natural laws have changed. This change leads to chaos, starvation and disease, wiping out a large number of the people of Oregon. <br /> <br />So our main characters, Juniper Mackenzie, a Wiccan musician and Mike Havel, a pilot with a military background, must find a way to survive. Both of these highly realized characters become responsible for small but growing group of people. As the two groups of survivors grow and learn new ways to feed and defend them selves, there are even more mounting dangers, but these wear human faces. Roving marauders, power mad despots and desperate groups that have turned to cannibalism now plague the world. An even more dangerous menace is located in Portland, a man named The Protector, who is organizing strongholds all throughout the Willamette region.  <br /> <br />As the outside menace grows, the Bear Killer Clan under the leadership of Mike Havel and The Mackenzie's, Juniper's ever growing tribalistic community, must team up, along with local ranchers and farmers, to fight the spread of the Protector. <br /> <br />From start to finish Stirling creates a brutal new world where the toys of generations past are useless. Unlike past post Apocalyptical tales, people can't just pick up all the toys left behind, but must create a whole new way of living. Here, strength isn't as key to survive as an ability to adapt is. This startling new twist breathes new life into the genre. <br /> <br />If I was to make one complaint about this book, it would be a minor one. I wish the author would have included the dates of events as he did in the Island series. For some reason, including those dates helped me to organize the action, at points in this series I became confused as to the timing of events and the period of time between them.<br />        <br />In the end I was energized by this first installment in Stirling's newest trilogy. It seemed to be exactly what I was looking for. Great characters, perilous situations, lots of action, chilling battle scenes and a touch of humor at just the right places. Stirling is one of those authors who must do a tremendous amount of research, because with each book, I have leaned something new and interesting.  <br />        <br />Hopefully I won't have to wait to long for the next installment.	2004-08-20
US	34163391	R1CF6EJBQCHGIH	0375411089	718882852	Skinny Dip	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Mick Shanahan is Back, But is Outshined By The Baddies	There are some people who have a knack for staying out of trouble. Mick Shanahan isn't one of them. Retiring to a small relatives secluded Island off the coast of Florida, Mick, who we last saw dispatching a would be killer with only a stuffed fish as a weapon in Skin Tight, now spends his leisure time fishing and scaring off rude visitors. One day Mick's fishing bring home more than dinner. Today's catch is a beautiful naked women floating on a  bale of marijuana. Not a bad haul. <br /> <br />Joey Perrone knows, somewhere deep in her heart, that her husband's a dog, but she never thought he would try to killer her. Now floating in the cold sea after her husband dumped her over the side of their cruise ship, she realizes she may have misjudged him. <br /> <br />With this opening we begin another comic eco-crime thriller by the master of South Florida hy-jinks, Carl Hiaasen, called Skinny Dip. This is easily Hiaasen's best work in a long time, jam packed with enough crazy, funny oddball characters for three novels. Joey and Mick seek revenge on Joey's philandering husband, Chaz, a dope to the 10th degree who seems to totally incapable of killing people no matter how hard he tries. He is one of Hiaasen's greatest creations, a smooth, sexually insatiable dope whose corrupt values and greed greatly outweigh his IQ. <br /> <br />Yet, Hiaasen outdoes himself with his other character, Tool. At first glanced this brutish bodyguard/muscle that the evil Corporate Farming Baron sends to keep his eye on Chaz. Tool at first glance is your typical ogre that peppers so many crime novels, but little by little Hiaasen packs layers onto this man. At first we just see an overly hairy, pain medicine addicted, bullet in his backside goon, but by the end of the book we just see a human being, far more interesting than even the real hero's of the story. <br /> <br />For the reader looking for lots of laughs combined with a well developed plot and a bit of a conscience, you cannot do muchbetter that Skinny Dip. <br />	2004-07-30
US	34163391	R1T5FD44RPFB9W	0446531588	703746704	Derailed	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Fast and Fun, Nothing Groundbreaking	Every once and a while a book by a debut author comes out with a lot of buzz. The publishing companies put a lot into pushing it. Big name authors names are tied to it through endorsements and comparisons. Often times this buzz is created because the book is a new and unique offering, something really special. Unfortunately more often than not the buzz is manufactured by a media savvy author. Derailed by James Siegel fits more into the second category.<br />Not that Derailed is a bad book, it just doesn't in my opinion live up to the hype. The plot is definitely intriguing. A Charles Schine, a normal man in an unsatisfactory marriage and burdened with a sick daughter meets a beautiful and mysterious women on the train. A women amazingly attracted to Charles. Of course one thing leads to another and now Charles life is turned upside down. <br />The problem with Derailed is not in its style or execution. The story moves along at a nice pace and is easy to read. The main problem is that is relies a lot on tricks and switching perspectives to get most of its surprises. The twists and turns are about as shocking as a drive down the New Jersey Turnpike, you see them coming from a long way away, yet you still look forward to them. <br />There is a lot of good in this book. Charles Schine is a likable character, stuck in a bad situation, mostly due to his own imperfections. The author uses the age old theme of not knowing what you got until it's gone. Charles after his life has been destroyed is a lot more likable a guy than before and his family members really don't develop until late in the book when having to deal with his indiscretions.  <br />So if you're looking for a light, fast moving fun read in the mold of James Patterson or Harlen Coben, Derailed is a good choice. Just don't expect anything groundbreaking.	2004-06-02
US	34163391	R2WCROBPCQJBRB	055380250X	303170656	The Taking	Books	5	10	13	N	N	A Beautiful Retelling of a Classic Theme	I remember when I saw The Sixth Sense for the first time. I really didn't know much about the movie or the director. I knew he was from the Philadelphia area and that the film was shot in the city of brotherly love. Honestly, being a lifetime Philadelphia resident, that was my main reason for seeing it. The experience of watching that movie is something I'll never forget. Walking out of that theatre I felt like I was just the victim of a sucker punch. I never saw it coming and I really hadn't grasped the effect it had on me. The Sixth Sense changed forever how I watched movies. I never really expected to feel that way again. Until I read The Taking by Dean Koontz.<BR>       <BR>If M. Night Shamalyan has a contemporary in the book world it is definitely Dean Koontz. Both writers have a way to take what we see as archetypical theme in entertainment, especially in the sci-fi/horror genre and turn it on its head. Both writers know how to tear down the cliches that we built around these themes and rebuild them into something new and better, and something we'll never expect.<BR>       <BR>On the surface, The Taking is an alien invasion book.  It starts late at night when a sleepless Molly Sloan becomes aware of a strange, seemingly glowing rain falling upon a small mountain town. The rain comes with a strange smell and a dirty feel that leaves Molly feeling uneasy. When her husband awakes screaming about a presence coming down on them from the heavens, they both run to their television to become witnesses to worldwide unexplained events. Both of them slowly come to a similar yet unspoken conclusion. Something not quite of this earth is here.<BR>       <BR>Armed only with a few guns, hope and years of science fiction indoctrination, Molly and Neil head off into a battle to save the children of their small town from unspeakable monsters and human agents of despair. Aided by seemingly psychic dogs they take on their mission while trying to determine exactly what is happeningto their town and their world.<BR>       <BR>Like Shamalyan's Signs, The Taking is an intimate slice of a global disaster. The story comes at us in real time from the perspective of one incredible strong female character. Many traditional Koontz themes are at play here, a strong women made even stronger by tragic events of the past, the loyalties of man's best friends, and the necessity of hope when everyone else has seemed to have lost it. Koontz has always seemed to be mislabeled as a writer of horror, due mostly to the fact that his writings cross so many genres that labeling him becomes close to impossible. Yet, this tale is definitely his scariest in a long time, perhaps one of the most frightening I have read in a long time.<BR>       <BR>The Taking is also beautifully written. Almost as much poetry as prose Koontz's tale is a visual masterpiece, images so strongly painted by words onto the paper you can't help but get lost sometimes in those images. While many of his traditional themes are in play, this is not a typical Koontz offering. Some fans may miss his trademark humor and incredible cast of quirky characters. This tale is much more plot driven then his usual character driven stories. Yet Koontz does what he does best, he strips us of what we believe we know, of what we have come to expect our stories to be and reinvents both himself and the way we look at these tales.	2004-05-28
US	34163391	R2U2VOAA7TIAGP	0451211634	180482494	Hostile Witness	Books	5	220	230	N	N	An Exciting Legal Thriller	I like a good deal. You know how when you go to the grocery store and you find your favorite cereal is buy one get one free, you almost feel like you've won some sort of lottery. Now, you know the store has upped the base price of the cereal, but you still snatch it up and through it your cart. There is a great feel to a two for one deal. That's how I have always felt about a good courtroom drama.  You're getting two dramas for the price of one. The first drama is outside the courtroom. The incident, the lives affected, secrets, conspiracies and so much more pepper the events leading up to a trial. Then the trial, the legal maneuverings, the back room deals, the attorneys and judges, you can't get much better than that.  <br />Recently there has been more and more legal thrillers that forgo the courtroom. The lawyer turned detective who solves the mystery without even filing a motion. While these books are often quite entertaining, I sometimes feel like I missed something. In Hostile Witness by Rebecca Forster we get the whole enchilada. <br />Josie Baylor-Bates is a talented yet flawed attorney. Tortured by her past and by her success as a criminal defense attorney, all Josie wants now is to settle into a small neighborhood practice taking care of wills and eveyday legal problems. Then her old college roomate Linda Sheraton shows up at her door, her daughter having just been arrested for the murder of her step-grandfather, a California Supreme Court Justice. This was exactly the kind of high profile case that Josie wanted to avoid. Josie's intentions were to meet with the girl, get her through the bail hearing then hand her off to a qualified attorney, but after meeting with Hannah she can't get the image of the beautiful yet troubled girl out of her head. Putting everything at risk, her new practice, her relationship with her boyfriend and even her life, Josie takes on the case with a passion. A passion for a girl everyone believes is guilty. <br />Hostile Witnessis more than just a legal thriller. It is a story of motherhood and abandonment, both physical and emotional. It is also the launch of a new series with an intriguing new protagonist. Like Ben Kincaid or Dismas Hardy, this is a character that you'll want to follow. Along with a strong and complicated hero, Forster creates an intriguing cast of peripheral characters. Archer, the solid as a rock boyfriend and private investigator. Rudy Klein, the honest and well intentioned prosecutor and Hannah the troubled young girl stuck in the eye of the tornado. These characters are the glue that hold this story, and most likely future entries into this series, together. <br />Hostile Witness is an excellent start of an interesting new series. The pace was brisk and readable. The story sucks you in immediately, and the ending is full of thrills and surprises. For anyone who reads this novel, I suggest after completing it going back to reread the first couple of chapters. Doing this will show you how truly well this book was put together.	2004-05-26
US	34163391	R1G5QOXDF9J5MI	0446530891	382868174	Split Second (King & Maxwell)	Books	2	3	4	N	N	Sadly Disappoining Offering From a Gifted Writer	I like David Baldacci. I think he's an excellent writer. He has a rare gift where his writing spans subject matters and crosses genres yet he still comes off as an expert in that particular field. He writes about lawyers, single mothers, FBI agents and many other topics with authority. Now he takes on the world of the secret service agent. Unfortunately this time he strikes out.  <br />Sean King was a secret service agent until a momentary distraction cost the life of his charge. Michele Maxwell is a current agent, but maybe not for long now that her charge was kidnapped do mostly to a single mistake. So now, of course, the two disgraced agents hook up, to the dismay of the Service, local cops, the FBI and just about everybody else. Together the try to solve the disappearance of the Presidential candidate that Michele was charge to look after while also shedding new light on the circumstances behind Sean's disgrace. Hey everyone, it's a mystery.<br />There are so many things that I didn't like about this story. First off, the plot was so complex it was unbelievable and bordering on ridiculous. The &quot;bad guys&quot; motives were very weak. The characters shallow and the tensions created by bureaucratic politics predictable and so over used in today's mystery fiction. The story moved a long at a decent place to the predictable mystery style reveal followed by the bang-bang climatic finish which was anything but climatic.<br />One of the gimmicks that is used in this story is the mystery bad guy following the good guys and commenting on their doings. Here we see an old man identified only by his make of car watching over the shoulder of our hero's. This is supposed to give us the master manipulator, on top of everything feel of our mastermind bad guys, but it comes off as cheesy.<br />I think I may be being a bit overly harsh in my review of this book. It was not utter garbage.  It's just when you expect so much out of an author based on his history, you tend to judge his failures harsher.	2004-05-24
US	34163391	R1BBYUW14E36MP	0316155306	561654368	The Narrows	Books	4	1	3	N	N	The Poet Revisited	In 1996 Michael Connelly treated us to one of the best psycho-sexual serial killer novels of all time. I am usually not a big fan of that genre. Usually authors get to caught up in the slash and dash bizarre elements of such crimes. They almost revel in the depravity often mistaking gore for tension. Connelly never made that mistake. In The Poet, we find that we don't need the in depth details of the crimes to give us the chills, it's enough to see the effects these crimes have on the surrounding players to know we are dealing with a true madman. The Poet was truly that, a madman targeting Homicide detectives. All these detectives were particularly disturbed and obsessed with particular case and when they were found dead in apparent suicides, no one questioned it. <BR>       <BR>Connelly let us in on the hunt, and when the end of the book came we were truly shocked by the identity of the killer, and dismayed with his escape. Well, it seems that Connelly was equally dismayed. Recently in an interview Connelly mentioned how he resisted writing a sequel to The Poet, but after 9/11 he just didn't feel right letting this evil still roam his universe. Connelly needed to exorcise his demon, and to do that he needed to invite along his dearest friends. <BR>       <BR>So Connelly pulls together all the characters from his series and stand alone novels to battle this evil. Rachel Walling, the disgraced FBI agent who handled the original case. Harry Bosch, the hard nose retired LAPD Homicide detective who is the object of the majority of Connelly's work and Terry McCaleb, the retired FBI profiler and heart transplant recipient. In a way this is not just a sequel to The Poet, but a linking of his entire universe.  <BR>       <BR>Like a master chess player Connelly spends the first half of the book putting his pieces in the right places. Connelly knows how to build tension through intelligent development instead of explosions and gore. His also infuses a bit of humor into the mix by including many references to the Theatrical version of Bloodwork, and the movies complete disregard for the original tales ending. <BR>       <BR>Connelly takes on a tough task of trying to complete the tale that The Poet started. While clearly not as good as the original, The Narrows is a worthy follow up to that tale. Connelly's task is tough, because for the most part we know who the killer is and what drives him to do what he does. What he does is create a balance to the world he has created, ending some characters stories, while rejuvenating others.	2004-05-23
US	34163391	R2TX74SBYE1NOJ	039915034X	233837901	Star Witness	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Solid Legal Thriller, Too Many Rants	So what exactly is this book about?  Is it about a gruesome murder? Is it about Hollywood? Is it about the cult of celebrity? Or is it about the master manipulation of a movie mogul to produce his \\"Citizen Kane\\"? Well, yes it is all these things. Here D.W. Buffa becomes a jack of all trades, bringing together a whole lot of sub-plots together to create a multi-faceted take on the legal thriller. And why he does a servicable job, as with most jacks of all trades, he really masters none, putting together a intrigiung, yet often rambling and hard to read who-done-it. <BR>      <BR>       When movie mogel Stanley Roth''s beautiful wife, and star actress, is found brutally murdered, he calls our protagonist Joseph Antonelli, a gifted defense lawyer, only days before the police arrest him for the murder. Antonelli must now sort through the lies and motives of a multitude of star studded characters to find the truth. There is the victim's dead beat dad, now a media whore calling for justice, the lead detective with a script to sell, and Roth's power hungry partner with a big chip on their shoulder. On top of that all, Roth himself might just hold the secret to his freedom, yet seems unwilling to share with his bewildered attorney.<BR>      <BR>       Peppered in the murder mystery Buffa gives his characters licensee to ramble on and on about movies, celebrity, philosophy, and a multitude of other topics often cluttering the story itself. Peel away these distractions and Buffa has created a pretty solid mystery with some fun twists and turns.	2004-04-29
US	34163391	R4Z2N0HBK94PN	0380977591	121249842	Radio Activity	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Fitzhugh Goes Low Key with the Start of a New Series.	Rick Shannon is a dinosaur. In the every changing face of mass pleasing corporate radio Rick is a classic rock DJ who cares about both the quality of music and staying true to your listeners. Of course, this makes him nearly unemployable. So when shady station general manager Clay Stubblefield calls with an offer, Rick has no choice but to travel down to good ole' McRae, Mississippi to take the job. But with that job comes a mystery. What happened to Captain Jack the former program director, and what's with the mysterious recording that Captain Jack had hidden in an old Chicago boxset? Thus Rick adopts the persona of Buddy Miles, private investigator and with the help of the alluring and properly made up station receptionist, Rick is definitely going to get to the bottom of it. <BR>       <BR>     In Radio Activity, Bill Fitzhugh has stepped away from the slapstick goofiness of such fun novels as Pest Control, The Organ Grinders and Heart Seizure and has created a down to earth and surprisingly low keyed tale of corruption and intrigue in a local radio station. Like Kellerman's Alex Delaware or James W, Hall's Thorn, Rick Shannon is Bill Fitzhugh's voice. A character destined for the multi-novel series treatment and one with lots of potential. Yet, there is another character here, and that is the music. Fitzhugh let's us in on the discussion of what \\"classic rock\\" really is.  Is it the everyday hits we here played over and over on out radio's or is it more than that.  Fitzhugh tackles a topic that he really knows and loves and makes us start to love it. Now, I'm a little young for that particular genre, but it made me want to run down to my parent's basement and sort through all their old vinyl's looking for hidden treasures.<BR>       <BR>     For fans of Fitzhugh this novel is more along the lines of Fender Benders, which was one of my favorites in this writer's collection. I for one cannot wait to see what advertures Rick Shannon gets into next.	2004-04-24
US	34163391	R1IC6Q8RNP3XZX	0525947752	196048228	The Second Chair	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Lescroart and Hardy Both Tone it Down, With Great Results	Something about The Second Chair by John Lescroart just did it for me. I have been reading the Dismas Hardy/Abe Gilsky series since very early and have experienced a lot along with this clever and entertaining pair. I have been there for judges accused of murder, wrongfully accused individuals fighting for their lives in the legal arena, political scandals, police misconduct, murder, mayhem and a huge gun battle that left not only my head spinning, but the collective heads of our protagonists and their friends and family about to explode. Now all seems well on the legal landscape of Lescroart's San Francisco. Hardy is now the managing partner of a profitable law firm, Abe is in a real position of power in the police force, the DA and police chief are both friends of our hero's and most importantly, no one is shooting at them. Yet, what may seem fine on the surface is decidedly not fine underneath. Hardy is now a &quot;fixer&quot; wielding influence for clients he never would have touched before and in-between his fixing sessions slipping a few nips from the ole' wet bar. Abe is frustrated by the seemingly futile nature of politics and dealing with the press, and becoming more and more concerned about the burning pain in his gut. To add to Hardy's troubles, one of his associates, Amy Wu, sick with grief over the death of her father, is taking on her first real murder case, and not doing that good of a job with it.<br />       Oh, and somebody is going around killing people too, for apparently no reason.<br />       Lescroart does something with The Second Chair that just really amazed me. Here Lescroart the writer and Dismas Hardy the Lawyer become one and find a way to solve their mutual problems. Lescroart's problem is a series with growing tension with each edition, bordering on getting out of control. Hardy's problem is a lost faith in the Law.  So Lescroart steps back and goes to the root of his story telling, by letting Hardy go back to his roots, a murder trial. Gone are the corruption and conspiracies, the ever escalating cycle of violence. Lescroart takes us back to a human tale, a tale of flawed individuals working in a flawed system, yet good intentioned and honest.  Here the lawyers aren't battling a corrupt DA or biased cops, but their own prejudices and problems. This is simply good story telling at it's core without cheap stunts or gimmicks. While this may not be a perfect book, it is the perfect tone for this edition that just might save a series.	2004-04-15
US	34163391	R1IQF92OHILBBW	0060508183	810484076	Fatal Flaw (Victor Carl Series)	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Flawed, but not fatally so.	I have always been tentative to read one of William Lashner's novels. While I am a big fan of the legal thriller genre and am from the Philadelphia, the setting for the Victor Carl series, I have always been turned off by his stylistic approach. Lashner's novels are always a first person account, deeply delving into the emotional thought process of it's highly flawed protagonist. While that approach has it's benefits in tales, often times it comes off as trickery, a device needed to heighten surprise endings and control the flow and taint the importance of the information being gained. In Fatal Flaw, Lashner plays with this stylistic trick, hijacking the emotions and situations and giving us one flawed perspective, every incident distorted by Carl's obvious prejudice. The first two hundred pages drudge along with the protagonist not clearly thinking about anything and making horribly obvious poor choices and constantly whining and giving us his overly long and dramatic justifications for his thoughts and actions. For me, it was hard to read. After that though, the book really takes off. When Carl finally discovers his huge mistake, we get back on the right track with a well thought out and developed plot spanning the tragic life of the victim of a horrific murder.<br /><br />  Lashner really builds an excellent story here. While some of the twists and turns are obvious, and there where points where I felt the characters were missing some obvious aspects, I really got into this story about the half way point. Lashner develops some interesting characters beyond the Carl character. So the few flaws of this tale were not fatal to the overall execution of this book.	2004-04-12
US	34163391	R36JA0G5C65UNN	0380806363	338069205	Heart Seizure	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Strange Characters Aplenty Pepper this Tale	Spence Tailor has a problem. His brother is a bit uptight. His career isn't the most lucrative. His wardrobe hasn't evolves since law school, and his mother is losing heart. Literally. Once again Bill Fitzhugh tackles the wacky world of organ transplants. While in his last book on this subject, The Organ Grinders, he satirically slaps around the biotech industry, this time his victims is the Federal Government. In the heat of a presidential election the incumbent president suffers a massive heart attack and needs a new heart. Lucky for him a stuntman just met with a bit of fatal accident. Lucky for him the heart is an excellent match for his rare blood type. Unfortunately, this heart is about to be placed inside the chest of sweet old Ms. Rose Tailor, Spence's Mom. So what's a politician to do? Steal the heart of course.<BR>       <BR>       For some reason Spense doesn't like this so, along with his (...) banker brother, Spence steals the heart and kidnaps a pretty young doctor with an unfortunate choice in undergarments. This leads to a madcap, wacky chase involving the FBI, CIA, redneck tourists, extreme athletes and a Mormon basketball team. While this isn't Fitzhugh's best technical achievement, it definitely is one of his most fun and funniest novels to date.	2004-04-05
US	34163391	R1L7GNYLRH4N57	0446613444	152178043	The Black Ice (Harry Bosch)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Stereotypical Set-up, but with Excellent Results	I've been looking for this novel, you see. It's about a well adjusted and highly effective police detective, on the fast track, who is loved by all the brass and has a nice family waiting at home for him every night.  This detective is given a lot of support by the investigative apparatus and has developed a nice working relationship with the press. He works cases methodically and practically, never making himself the target of some psycho. Well, I haven't found it yet, but one thing I can tell you is Harry Bosch is not that detective and The Black Ice is definitely not that book. Michael Connelly has developed the stereotypical me against the world cop book that comes off as anything but stereotypical. In this latest police procedural, the procedure are all thrown out the window as Bosch tries to solve the murder of a fellow policeman that no one seems to want solved. Tied in with the death of narcotic's officer Cal Moore's demise, is a few drug related killers and the recent sudden retirement of a fellow homicide detective. Connelly spins a web of corruption and lost youth, symbolically weaving together the tough childhood's of the slain detective and Bosch and takes the tale south of LA, to twin Mexican Border Towns and a ring of smugglers transporting the latest hip drug, Black Ice.<BR>         <BR>     While this may not have been a great novel, Connelly does a great job with the subtle symbolism in this book. He doesn't need to hit you over the head with it and he gives the reader a lot of credit for intelligence. But then it all breaks down in the end after the obligatory action scenes, Bosch takes a turn as Hercule Poirot, and needs to explain everything down to the last detail to an ungrateful boss. For the most part this was a brisk paced and fun addition to the Harry Bosch series.	2004-04-03
US	34163391	R3LGR33GJL3DEW	0425194809	649155077	Life Sentence	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Finally A Lawyer Who Is Not Afraid of the Courtroom	I love legal thrillers. As a teenager I dreamed of becoming a lawyer, of arguing the big case, of the maneuverings and the dealing and the strategy of it all. Well, I never did go to Law school, so now I live for vicariously through the writings of those that did. Unfortunately, in recent years the trend of these lawyers turned writers has been to move away from courtroom, turning these legal thrillers into more of detectives with a law degree. It's getting harder and harder to find a good courtroom tale, even when they are advertised as such. So when I picked up Life Sentence by David Ellis I was skeptical.  I liked his first book, Line of Vision, but wasn't blown away. The back page quips seemed interesting, and of course there was the obligatory comparison to Grisham in the praise area that book reviewers feel compelled to make anytime a lawyer writes a book.  So then I start reading. The tale instantly captures me.  In the book, the protagonist Jon Soliday is a highly respected election lawyer with a secret from his past. He has just discovered a loop hole that will almost guarantee his boss and best friend will win the election for governor, but shortly after making the decision whether to use this discovery or not, another lawyer is murdered and Jon is found standing over the dead man's body. This starts a ride through the legal and political system that is both interesting and educational. Ellis does a great job weaving a plot of corruption and revenge that spans over two decades.  For once, we actually get to travel into the courtroom and are given a front row seat to the proceedings.<BR>       <BR>    I wass absolutely blown away by this book. I both the political and legal aspects to be well thought out and extremely well written. The only downside of this books is that Ellis leaves to many obvious clues to the surprise ending and by about halfway through the book, I had it pretty well figured out. Other than that, this may be the best legal thriller I'veread in a long time.	2004-04-01
US	34163391	R39DM3K7U1OCCK	0380806347	206715463	Cross Dressing	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Holy Satire with Fun Results	Bill Fitzhugh will make fun of anything.  Whether it's the smarmy world of organ transplants, the political system, industry, technology, and even pest control, and Cross Dressing isn't any different, except this time his target is slightly higher. Fitzhugh tackles another controversial subject with his satirical spanking of organized religion. Dan Steele is a bit of a jerk. He lives the life of a highly paid and successful ad exec, except he's run  out of ideas. But that's not a problem when you can just steal one. Dan's twin brother is a priest, but a priest with his own problems, and they are literally eating away at him from the inside. When Dan's brother needs medical attention and is lacking medical insurance, the ethically challenge Dan has no problems switching identities. The his brother dies, and takes Dan's identity with him. Now having to take over his brother's more saintly life, which holds it's own secrets, leads Dan into the path of hitman, disgruntled former coworkers and a very attractive nun, also with secrets.  Where would good fiction be without secrets?<BR>       So once again Fitzhugh handles a touchy subject with humor and disrespect. If you are highly sensitive about the reputation of the Catholic Church, this may not be you best bet. If you could look past this little problem, this is a crazy, fun book with lots of twisty, turny fun that only this master of satire can write.	2004-04-01
US	34163391	R2DE9POO8WPTAW	0060520469	556721931	Cadillac Beach	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Take This Killer Tour of South Florida	Serge E. Storms is back and this time he's angry. Well, I guess not just this time, but Serge is looking to solve the mystery of his father's death and maybe make a little money doing it. He also has a brilliant idea that will bring all his unusual talents together, if you consider murder and a freakish knowledge of South Florida trivia a talent. So Serge, along with his pot head sidekick Lenny, start a new venture, giving tours of the backside and underworld of Florida while offering an interesting twist, help solve his father's murder and win a prize. So with Cadillac Beach, Dorsey reinforces his image of Hiiasen on speed by upping the pace and increasing the body count with fun results. Dorsey adds a twist this time by going back in time to give us a look at the misfortunes of his father. Even the ending though kind of corny, offered a few surprises and more than a couple laughs. <BR>       <BR>      For the most part you can count on Dorsey for a fun ride and this time was no exception. While it can be tough to keep all the characters straight and Dorsey offers plenty of oddball characters that could almost center there own stories. This wasn't the best of Dorsey's books but it did offer us some interesting new twists in Serge's madcap story	2004-03-31
US	34163391	R2TB4LYZZARSYA	0380806363	338069205	Heart Seizure	Books	4	0	1	N	N	That Wacky World of Organ Donations	Spence Tailor has a problem. His brother is a bit uptight. His career isn't the most lucrative. His wardrobe hasn't evolves since law school, and his mother is losing heart. Literally. Once again Bill Fitzhugh tackles the wacky world of organ transplants. While in his last book on this subject, The Organ Grinders, he satirically slaps around the biotech industry, this time his victims is the Federal Government. In the heat of a presidential election the incumbent president suffers a massive heart attack and needs a new heart. Lucky for him a stuntman just met with a bit of fatal accident. Lucky for him the heart is an excellent match for his rare blood type. Unfortunately, this heart is about to be placed inside the chest of sweet old Ms. Rose Tailor, Spence's Mom. So what's a politician to do? Steal the heart of course.<BR>      <BR>     For some reason Spense doesn't like this so, along with his anal retentive banker brother, Spence steals the heart and kidnaps a pretty young doctor with an unfortunate choice in undergarments. This leads to a madcap, wacky chase involving the FBI, CIA, redneck tourists, extreme athletes and a Mormon basketball team. While this isn't Fitzhugh's best technical achievement, it definitely is one of his most fun and funniest novels to date.	2004-03-30
US	34163391	R27NNMND1V22WV	0743477316	751849605	Oyster Blues: A Novel	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Another Trip to the Sunshine State	So I'm a sucker for this Florida stuff. It seems every month or so I run into another author taking on the wild and wacky turf of the Sunshine State.  The latest find was Michael McClelland's Oyster Blues. This is a tale of near murders, dirty politics, not so bright mobsters and of course a couple of clueless lovesick bookworms who stumble onto a conspiracy. Nothing groundbreaking here, but a lot of wacky, off the wall charm. McClelland creates some fun and memorable, though utterly unbelievable, characters and puts them in a clever and enjoyable plot to make a fun read. My only qualm is I think at points McClelland may have tried too hard to insert some wackiness in his book. At one point Jane, the female lead, comes off as way to naive when answering some basic medical questions for a girl as well read as herself, yet later in the book figures out the entire conspiracy based on an obscure reference to a specific fish. <BR>      <BR>The inevitable comparisons will come so, no this book is not up to par with Hiaasen at his best, or even Tim Dorsey, but the potential is absolutely there. For a first time novelist, this was a first rate entry into an ever growing genre.	2004-03-29
US	34163391	R2SZNDZJJIBUH2	0972085920	453468459	Rage	Books	1	5	7	N	N	Hardcore Gruel and Gore in an Unsettling Tale of Violence	On the cover of the paperback edition of Steven Gerlach's Rage a fellow author describes this book as \\"a volcano of a book.\\" In some ways he's right. This book started slowly, almost boringly. The tension slowly builds until the ultra-violent but highly predictable ending. <br />       I really didn't like this book. I am surprised I finished it. The saving grace was probably the pacing. I flew through the book in under three hours. One of the major problems was the repetitive ramblings of the main character. Gerlach gives you a front row seat for the text book psychopathic mindset of a sociopath. The book reads like a primer into the traditional beliefs of the life of a serial killer.The murder and torture of small animals, the experimentation with homosexuality at a young age, the difficulty dealing with women and the ever increasing need for perverse and increasingly hard-core pornography. <br />          This book was just way over the top for me. Gerlach accomplished his goals and I won't criticize his skill, but there were no redeeming qualities or likable characters in this book.	2004-03-26
US	34163391	R2I7866U26RAUF	0440237270	49713385	Trial by Ice and Fire	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Another Fun Adventure Story	I have to admit it, I was surprised by Clinton McKinzle. I picked up his first book, The Edge of Justice, thinking it was another lawyer turned writer yarn, when I realized it was just another cop novel, with the added twist of this cop being an avid mountain climber, I was kind of disappointed. I am not much of an outdoorsy type, I'm happy if I find a way to climb into my pants everyday, and didn't think I would enjoy stories about a cop chasing people around a mountain. Then I read the book and he hooked me in (I guess that's a pun). McKinzle has created a great character in Wyoming Special DCI Agent Antonio Burns. In his latest novel, Trial by Ice and Fire, McKinzle continues to develop his hard luck protagonist. With his reputation being picked apart by an unscrupulous defense attorney and his girlfriend becoming distant, Burns takes on a case involving the stalking of a beautiful actress's daughter, who also happens to be a local prosecutor. While the twist and turns aren't particularly surprising, McKinzle whips together a highly readable and exciting tale ending with a true trial by fire. <BR>       While enjoyed this book, it was the weakest of the three Burns novels, specifically for one reason. The first book had some truely hate-able, despicable, obvious bad guys that just had you salivating for the page where they finally get there just deserts. Here McKinzle trades off some of this blunt evil for an attempt to make a more surprising ending. He took the risk, but the payoff just wasn't there. I really don't need to be surprised if I hate the bad guy enough. McKinzle even missed a few opportunities to develop some peripheral bad guy characters, especially the Hollywood hotshot Danny Gorgon character, who had the potential to be a real pest.	2004-03-20
US	34163391	R1UGERTZ3KJJU5	0060083247	879661551	Ties That Bind (Amanda Jaffe)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Another Lawyer Turn Detective Story	First off, I'm going to start with the good stuff. In Ties That Bind Phillip Margolin writes another fun, attention keeping lawyer as detective thriller staring the damaged Amanda Jaffe.  Here, not only must she deal with a political conspiracy, a possibly innocent yet dangerous client and a possible corrupt District Attorney but also a brutal group of men who aren't scared to use the horrors of her past against her. Margolin weaves together a lot of sub plots to come to his satisfying and actually surprising conclusion. Rarely anymore am I surprised by the ending of a book, with hundreds of mysteries behind me, it easy to suspect everyone. This time Margolin actually set me up pretty well, and threw a curveball past me. <BR>On the negative side, and this isn't a criticism of Margolin alone, the legal thriller genre is quickly becoming more thriller than legal. These lawyers turn writers currently seem unable to end a book in a courtroom. In this novel, Margolin continues the trend with very minimal courtroom scenes and not all that much lawyering happening. Now granted, a good thriller has its place, and this one was pretty good, but I didn't start reading the likes of Margolin, Lescroart, Bernhardt and Freidman for your typical psycho stalker meets beautiful lady story. I like the courtroom maneuvering and the legal process, and yes, even a verdict. Hopefully once again we can get some books with verdicts.	2004-03-17
US	34163391	RJHCJ5JJQPOTR	0316602051	985416391	The Jester	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Does a Book Need to Be Good to Be Good?	So I just finished the book, The Jester  by James Patterson and Andrew Gross. It's basically the tale of a Medieval French serf, Hugh,  who comes to possession of a significant Christian relic during the Crusades. After deserting the Crusade he is chased by a group of evil black knights in search of the relic. Hugh ends up leading a rag tag group of bondsman into a battle against their corrupt liege.<BR>      I've recently gotten into the habit of reading book reviews about halfway through a book. So I check out B&amp;N.com to read both the professional reviews and those of lay readers. This book was not well liked. The reviews ranged from &quot;It sucked to &quot;it really sucked.&quot; For the most part people did not like this book.<BR>       They had good reason. The book was not a good book. It's plot was predictable, it was filled with many glaring inaccuracies, and it's characters were not well developed. For example, during one scene Hugh lamented the possible loss off his best friend Odo during the siege of a nobleman's castle. While I felt for the potential loss of his friend, my main thought was, Who the hell is Odo? and why should I care more about him the hundreds of other laying dead? <BR>       Now here is the crux of my problem. Yes, this was not a good book, yet I still enjoyed it. It was a fast paced, light, enjoyable tale that kept my interest the whole way through. Maybe it's just because I have been reading heavier books lately. Patterson has a simple style that is highly accessible. While some writers may spend a hundred words explaining the shades and fullness of the ancient oak tree, Patterson is happy to tell you the tree is green and just move on.<BR>       So is The Jester great literature, no. But it was a fun time.	2004-02-12
US	34163391	R19NWLC2QE3S7Z	0061057940	245737919	The Rift	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Shake, Rattle and a Race Battle	I can't remember how I came across this book.  For some reason it was in the Fantasy section at my local B&N.  After reading it, I realized sticking this next to trolls and dragons is like putting Megadeth in the Easy Listening section.  The book is a disaster tale that takes place in the here and now.  Unlike modern disaster tales like The Stand and Swan Song there is no supernatural element.  But like those books the characters are well developed and entirely believable. Throw in a Tom Sawyer like travel down a bloated Missisippi, an ardent religous end times obsessed pastor and a KKK sheriff and the story flows as quick as said river.	2003-08-11
US	34163391	R1UI5RB4NG06ST	0843952474	819990108	Fireworks	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Humans, not Aliens, Highlight this Tale	On July 4th a large unidentified crafts crashes into the lake of a small Georgia town during the holiday firewors and kills a large number of citizens. Yet the craft isn't the real story in this excellent novel by horror writer James Moore. This isn't a novel about space aliens and sci-fi happenings, it is a story about people. Moore does an good job with this character study which draws largely on books like Dean Koontz's Strangers. He allows you into the minds of many of the main player's in this tragedy and turns tradition sci-fi roles on its head. Here we have a stiff military leader with a heart, a independent minded sheriff with a conscience, a preachers daughter with a past and a faithful soldier with a secret. These are all good people and their values are put to the test by the trying situation and the fears and prejiduces of the people surronding them.	2003-08-03
US	34163391	RR18YRPCEALFQ	0440240808	419946911	Point of Law	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Surprisingly Entertaining	It seems every time Special Agent Antonio Burns goes climbing somebody happens to die.  You would think he would learn his lesson.  <BR>      I wasn't excited to read this book.  I am not a big fan of climbing or camping or outdoor sports.  I enjoy legal thrillers and thought I would trudge through the obligatory adventure scenes.  Surprisingly, it was the action that takes place on the mountians and lakes of this book that win you over.  Burns is an instantly likable character.  What makes him even more likable is the people that surround him.  McKinzie has a knack for creating extemely dispicable character.  During the reading of this book and his other Burn's book Edge of Justice I found myself getting really angry at the corrupt characters.  At points I was squeezing the edges of the books until my hands turned red.	2003-05-16
US	34163391	RW6PSNXZMJ29V	0446524514	331965423	Act of God	Books	5	2	2	N	N	An Excellent Legal Tale	When it comes to books I'm a bit of a sexist.  Yeah, I can admitt it.  When scanning down the racks at my local bookstore and I see the name of the author is female, I usualy keep scanning.  Not that I haven't tried.  Yet often when I decide to take the chance to read a female author I struggle through the book trying to relate with the characters.  <BR>     I really can't tell you why I picked up this book.  Not only my horribly sexist outlook on reading but the fact that the last two books I read on the subject of abortion were at best mediocre.  Both books were full of cliche situations and took them selves way to seriously.<BR>       Then I read Susan R. Sloan's Act of God. What instantly impressed me was the humor of the novel.  Often when author's take on such a sensitive subject they try to handle in with sensativity, henceforth a dry and humorless tale.  Here Sloan attacks the situation with an almost Hiaasenesque flare which borders on over the top.  Yet the humor doesn't overshadow the seriousness of the situation.<BR>     The other thing I really liked about the book was the courtroom scene.  More and more of our legal thrillers have turned into lawyer as detective stories, never really entering the courthouse.  When they do actually try a case rarely does it ever play out to its natural conclusion.  Usually some big secret is revealed and the defendents life is never place in the hands of the jury.  Here Sloan takes us step by step through an exciting trial with to likeable adversaries.<BR>     Whatever your take is on this subject matter, I recommed reading this book.  Maybe I have finally found the female author I can relate to.	2003-03-04
US	34163391	RSKWGCK68TK0Y	0345426274	955062554	The Analyst	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Don't Judge a Author by Its....	We have all grown up with little words of wisdom passed on to us by our parents and teachers.  These sayings are supposed to be little reminders of life's basic principles.  One of the most popular of these phrases in my life was always, &quot;Don't judge a book by its cover.&quot;  So with this in mind I offer you a new spin on this old but true saying.<br />Don't judge a Author by his movies.<br />I knew of Katzenbach soley by his movies Just Cause and Hart's War.  Unfortunately, these movies just weren't that good.  So the other day when I picked up the book The Analyst I was faced with a dilemna.  Although the plot description instantly intrigued me I was hesitant to jump into the Katzenbach universe. Eventually I decided to take a chance and included the book in with my other purchases.<br />Thank God I did.  Its been a long time since I have enjoyed a book as much as I did this one.  The main character was complex and likable.  The conflict immediate and intense and the villian a true presence.  Each time the story started to slow down the author quickly changed directions.  Even the goofy gunfight ending and loopy surprises that most modern authors seem to be required to include came off fresh.  <br />The last time I had this much fun reading a book was Dean Koontz's Watchers.  Ironically that book was also turned into a really horrible movie.	2003-02-18
US	34163391	R1DHLB2QGBEO2D	0345452534	521290095	The Murder Book	Books	4	7	7	N	N	A Fun Yet Uneven Thriller	Reading The Murder Book felt like reading two seperate novels dealing with the same case.  First we have the first person narrative of Dr. Alex Delaware at his worst.  Most of this book is full of self pity and whining.  The relationship between him and his long time girlfriend has moved from complex and unique to annoying and predictable.  Most of his sluething centered around his internet searches and run-in's with former associates.<BR>      Where the book really excels is in its third person telling of Detective Milo Stugis's role in this novel.  Kellerman has become an excellent third person storyteller and should eliminate the word \\"I\\" from his vocabulary.  Milo contributes to the story both in dead on investigative work and complex development of his lifestyle and relationship.  I found the interaction between Milo and Rick to be the interesting especially when compared to the Alex and Robin relationship.  Kellerman finally unleashed the full force of his strong yet emotionally paranoid semi-main character in dealing with his percieved and the real prejiduce he had to deal with as a gay cop.<BR>      The ending left me dissappionted but served well to illistrate the uneveness of the book.  While Alex accidentally is saving the day in a ridiculous gun battle, Milo is digging away at the psychological layers of the story leading him to unwillingly strike a deal with the devil.  All in all its a good story, saved in the end by Milo.	2002-11-09
US	34163391	R2M2LFQH49LB68	0393321258	137736683	Under Cover of Daylight	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Hall Starts with a Bang	I have always tried to read and authors books in order but unfortunately I failed miserably when it came to Hall's Thorn books.  Most series where you read the books out of order its a minor miss step but here it was a huge mistake.  While Hall's books, for the most part, can stand on its own you don't truly understand the Thorn character until you've read Daylight.<br />Under Cover of Daylight is not just a story of murder and revenge but a scathing biopsy of the everchanging culture of Southern Florida.  As we cut through the layers of this shifting society we take an uncomfortable look two people who relationship give a whole new meaning to love-hate.  While the literal suprises are few the emotional surprises are many.	2002-11-03
US	34163391	RFRFVX5EXUIXZ	0380733234	433435219	Misconception	Books	1	1	4	N	N	A Disaster from Start to Finish	I have to give the two writers some credit for tackling a very tought issue.  Abortion is one of the most polarizing issues on todays political landscape. Unfortunately, all Mr. Shapiro and Becker did was muddy up water that was already quite murky.<BR>     From the beginning the characters were one dimensional and the plot was predictable.  The normal cast of characters, the feminist, the conservative politition, the socially minded docter, and the abortion bomber, all showed up and acted their part. The minor twists and turns and the almost surprising twist ending could not save another poorly concieved ideol-novel.<BR>      The issues that were raised were intriging on the face, but the characters were so stereotypical and the plot so manufactured that by the end you felt like you just watched 24 hours of CSPAN.	2002-10-12
